JAIPUR: The onset of summer has also shot up the demand for water tankers in the parched up areas of the city.

 The tractor tankers can be seen frequently passing through areas like Kho Nagoriyan,  , Jawahar Nagar, Mahesh Nagar and parts of the  . “The summer has just begun, but water scarcity has already begun to pinch itself. We pay Rs 400 to Rs 500 for   every fortnight,” said  , a resident of Mahesh Nagar.
 
 
  
  
 
 For a family of three, Maruyas are able to live through two water tankers a month. But same cannot be said for every family in localities which saw widespread protests in March. The prices of water tankers vary according to locality.
 
 A water tanker of 4,000 litres in Mansarover area may cost Rs 300, Rs 50 extra if it has to be pumped up to tanks on roofs. “Across the city water tankers charge Rs 300 to Rs 400. It is demand and supply that drives up costs,” said  , water supplier.
 
 But for posh areas like C-Scheme, the cost could range between Rs 450 to 500. The private water supply is a thriving business, especially between April to July when heatwave gets intensify and additional water supply in needed for water coolers etc.
 
 There is also booking that has to be done two days prior. “There are wedding seasons, and other festivals when water demands is exceptionally high in a house. One can get water cans for drinking purposes, but for other daily requirements, one needs at least two tankers a week. Hence we ask customers to call us in advance,” said Jitendra, a water supplier.
 
 The cost can go up to Rs 950 for a 9,000 litre tanker. The lorry drivers said that they have to cover costs to meet increasing demands. “We fill our tanks from bore wells which are located in farms, and in return we pay them too, but during summer time the owners who have borewells are very reluctant to give us water supply because they have to water their fields too,” a lorry operator said. 
 
 The lorry drivers said that they have many regular customers who get water supply all through the year. “In monsoon, if a water tanker is costing Rs 200, then its costs would of course increase during the summer time because there the demand has also shot up,” he said.
 
 
  
  
 
