Avinesh Rekhi, the lead actor of the TV show – Tu Sooraj, Main Saanjh Piyaji – had a chock-a-block schedule when he came to Jaipur on Tuesday. Press interactions, followed by a visit to the Sawai Mansingh Stadium to watch the match between Rajasthan and Kolkata teams at the ongoing   left him with no time to explore the city or even meet one of his cousins who lives in Jaipur.

 
 
 
 “This is my third time in Jaipur. The first time I came to this city was when I was a child. So, I hardly remember anything from that trip. The second time was an impromptu plan when we drove down to the city with few of my friends from Delhi and left the very next day. This time, I thought I would go and see a few of the forts that Jaipur is famous for and also meet one of my cousins who lives in the city. But I couldn’t get much time as my flight got delayed and I arrived later than my scheduled time. So, I had to immediately get to work for which I came. But I will plan a trip to Jaipur soon just to explore this beautiful city and soak in the vibe,” said Avinesh.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The actor recalled the time he shot for his show in Bikaner. “We shot for a wedding sequence in Bikaner. We had so much fun shooting there. We drove down to Kishangarh, the hometown of the producer of our show. We even gorged on dal baati churma. The taste was so good, it still lingers in my mouth,” said the actor.
 
 So, did he try out some local cuisine this time, too? He replied, “I am a foodie but right now, I am following a strict diet as my character demands me to look lean. Also, I have a lot of bare body scenes. So, I couldn’t relish heavy food this time.” 
 
 
 
 Since Tu Sooraj... is the sequel to  , Avinesh told us that when was roped in for the show, he was under a lot of pressure. “Diya Aur Baati Hum was a hit show; it was a brand in itself. So, when I was selected for the part, I felt a huge pressure as people had a lot of expectations from us. Before my selection, I had never seen any episode of Diya Aur Baati Hum. So, in order to understand the story and characters, I watched its episodes. I am glad that our hard work paid off and people are loving our show and my character,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 So has he any plans to take up Bollywood films? The actor said, “Right now, I am very much happy playing Umashankar. The show has a lot of colours to it and I am getting to show my acting talent. However, if I get a good role and not the blink-and-you-miss-it kind of roles, then I would take up a film project. I am going with the flow currently.”
 
 
 Pictures by: Shalini Maheshwari/BCCL
