Coimbatore: The   at Tatabad on Dr Alagappar Street which was set up at a cost of nearly Rs 50 lakh some 10 years ago today depicts a picture of neglect. Shut for the past 10 months, the park that once taught the public various concepts of science in a pictorial form is now crying for attention. And the local residents want officials to renovate the park and open it for the public at the earliest.

 Saritha S, a resident of the area, said they used to often take their children to the park. “Children could learn several new things. Names of various inventors and their details were painted on the walls. It also had a play area and a walking area,” she said.
 
 Initially, Saritha said, entry ticket was price at Rs 1 and Rs 2 for children and adults, respectively. “But it was hiked to Rs 5 and Rs 10 later. I don’t know whether it was legal or not, but we used to pay an entry fee,” she added.
 
 A security guard, who had earlier worked at the park, said the park was shut at the end of the contract given to a company to maintain it. “The contract was for three years. Even otherwise, the park was not functioning properly for the past two years,” he said. 
 
 Panneerselvam, an advocate and social worker, told TOI that he had petitioned the city corporation commissioner, K Vijayakarthikeyan, regarding this. “I am yet to get any reply from corporation officials. Parks are set up for public usage. If they were to remain shut, their real purpose won’t be served. Moreover, there are very few recreational parks in the city that are also informative for children. The science should be renovated and opened for children soon. A corporation school is located close by and it will be of good use for the students,” he said.
 
 Ramesh Sundar, another resident of Tatabad, recalled that many pre-school and private school children were once brought to the park for educational purposes. “This is such a waste of fund. The entry should be made free if they open the park again,” he added.
 
 Former DMK councillor Meena Logu said the park was constructed after a lot of struggle by the public representatives. “The present government and corporation officials have turned various reserved sites into dump yards or allowed them to be encroached. We had developed many parks during 2005-2010 but none of them are maintained properly today,” she said.
 
 Corporation engineers were unavailable for comment.
 
 
