GURUGRAM: Sunder Singh (49), a former  , who allegedly shot dead Kasan village   Bahadur Singh (51) on Wednesday night, has claimed the need to pay his son’s school fees urgently and pressure of lenders who had given money to the village headman on his guarantee, were the triggers behind the  .

 Sunder, who was produced in a city court on Friday and sent to police remand for four days, alleged that Bahadur owed him Rs 27 lakh but had been refusing to pay back.
 
 Sunder also claimed the sarpanch and his accomplice had misbehaved with him and pushed him out of Bahadur’s dairy on Wednesday night when he demanded his money again. This irked him, and he pulled out his licensed pistol and fired eight bullets on the sarpanch. 
 
 He surrendered on Wednesday night itself and handed over the purported murder weapon at the industrial police station in IMT-Manesar.
 
 Bahadur was riddled with eight bullets and succumbed to his injuries on way to hospital. Bahadur, who had retired from the   as havildar in 2007, was elected as sarpanch in the last panchayat election.
 
 Preliminary investigation revealed Sunder had brought out his licensed pistol from bank locker last Saturday itself, and probably was planning the murder for some time as “Bahadur had been dodging him every time”.
 
 Sunder told police that Bahadur was a close friend and business partner. They had together into the business of lending money after their retirement.
 
 According to Sunder, he had given Bahadur Rs 20 lakh while two of his former colleagues had given him another Rs 7 lakh on his guarantee. But Bahadur did not return their money. A few days ago, Sunder, who was the guarantor, was forced to return them Rs 7 lakh. Sunder, in the meantime, needed money as he had to pay Rs 1.5 lakh school fees for his son, who studies in Solan (Himachal Pradesh). 
 
 “On Wednesday night, Sunder reached Bahadur’s dairy. They drank together. Eventually, Sunder demanded money again when Bahadur allegedly abused him and pushed him out of the dairy. At this, Sunder lost his cool, took out his pistol and in a fit of rage fired eight bullets into Bahadur,” a senior cop said.
 
 In their complaint to the police, Bahadur’s nephews Rohit and Sanjay alleged that two of Sunder’s brothers — Yashpal Master and Rampal alias Ramu — were also involved in the killing. “Our investigation so far has not shown involvement of Sunder’s brothers. We are verifying their whereabouts at the time of the murder. Further action will be taken only after verifying their roles,” said inspector Mukesh Kumar, the investigating officer and SHO, Industrial police station, IMT-Manesar. “The purported murder weapon has already been handed over to police by the accused. We have taken him on four-day police remand and are questioning him,” said Ashok Bakshi, DCP (south).
 
  shot eight times by friend.
 
 
