LUCKNOW: A blanket ban on the opening of new engineering colleges in the state will save at least Rs 1,200 crore of the state exchequer. “The state coffers would be literally plundered by these colleges in the name of fee and scholarship to ‘fake’ SC/ST,   and minority students which has now largely stopped due to tighter regulation,” says a technical education department official.

 Thanks to lack of students, the office of technical education minister   is piling up with request from owners of engineering college for the closure of their establishment. In view of the huge pending requests for the closure, the government has declared that no new engineering college would be opened in the state in future.
 
 Speaking to TOI, technical education department secretary   explained that the mushrooming of engineering colleges in the state was linked to lack of fee regulation Act in the state, which allowed promoters of engineering colleges to extort huge amount from the state government in the name of fee and scholarship from the state government without any check on fake students.
 
 “We introduced a fee regulation Act in the state under which we defined that the state government would reimburse the fee and scholarship when the Act had not been introduced, the government was bound to reimburse fee and scholarships to all students of private colleges as per lists provided by them,” Kumar recalled.
 
 When the Act was not in place, a large number of engineer colleges had fake enrolments of thousands of students of weaker sections and received huge some as fee and scholarship reimbursements. This modus oprendi was so lucrative that it tempted many businessmen and politicians of the SC/ST, OBC and the weaker sections from the upper castes first to government colleges, then government-aided colleges and then private college with strict monitoring of the students. Earlier, to join the ‘business of engineering colleges’. As a result, the state witnessed mindless growth of technical education colleges to the extent that there are many cities which have more than two to three dozen such colleges.
 
 “ The situation was very alarming and we noticed this illegal practice of having fake students and worked a fee regulation Act. Besides, enrolments were linked to   to check fake admissions,”   Vinay Pathak said, adding that a large number of colleges were caught cheating. Earlier, the government used to reimburse about Rs 2,900 crore to private engineering college as fee and scholarship to weaker sections. It has now come down to nearly Rs 1,700 crore.
 
 This clamp down has stopped the windfall for unscrupulous promoters, who are now lined up before the government with a closure request. Out of 1.70 lakh seats in the engineering colleges, 1.05 stood vacant last year leading to a large number of 283 engineering colleges opting for a close down.
 
 This regulation has not only plugged the leakage of government funds, but also helped in improvement in quality of education, said Kumar.
 
 
