It’s been a year since the release of the epic war drama, SS Rajamouli’s ‘Baahubali: The Conclusion’. A year ago, people were scrambling to get tickets for the film, eagerly waiting for the answer to the question – Katappa ne   ko kyun maara – worldwide. Since then, in the last  , the film has made great strides, broken records, received love, released in other countries like Japan and Russia and much more. Starring  ,  ,   and Tamannah in lead roles, the film features music by  . 

  Even now, the film is so successful in Japan, that   held a special screening in Tokyo to celebrate the fact. A year after, the love for the film hasn’t reduced an ounce and the filmmakers took to their social media and wrote, “From the 28th of April, 2017 to the 28th of April, 2018, we've had an out-pour of love from around the world! From 'India's Biggest Blockbuster Ever' to accolades like the National Awards, to the reception from foreign markets like in Japan yesterday, it makes clear that #Baahubali2 isn't just a film. It's a vision that was brought to life by everyone who has supported us from the start, and everyone who continues to shower us with love! Jai Maahishmati. #1YearForTheIndianEpicBaahubali2” (sic) 
 
  Because we love the film as much as you do, to celebrate the occasion, we bring you few facts about the film that you might not have previously known: 
 
  
 
 
  This one’s a no brainer but it needed to be said because how many of us really realise that ‘Baahubali: The Conclusion’ is both a prequel and sequel to ‘Baahubali: The Beginning’. It narrated the tale of both why Katappa killed Amarendra Baahubali and how his son Sivudu finally manages to vanquish the evil king Bhallaladeva. 
 
  
 
 
  The second ‘Baahubali’ film was the first Telugu, even Indian film to release in the 4K HD format when it released a year ago. It was also released in the conventional 2D and IMAX formats, apart from the 4K 3D format. The audience who enjoyed the film best were also those who caught it in Dolby ATMOS. 
 
  
 
 
  This film is the highest grossing film in India, and the second highest grossing Indian film worldwide, with the first position held by the first ‘Baahubali’ film. The film approximately earned Rs 14.169 billion in India and Rs 2.896 billion overseas. The film also collected approximately Rs 8 billion worldwide in only six days within its release. It was also the first Indian film to gross over Rs 10 billion worldwide in ten days. 
 
  
 
 
  Apart from putting in extensive work for the minutest details of the film, the climax of ‘Baahubali: The Conclusion’ is one of the most expensive climaxes ever shot. The 40-45 sequence reportedly cost the makers Rs 30 Cr, and seeing as how well it turned out, the ending is a total paisa vasool. 
 
  
 
 
  Rana and Prabhas’ dedication towards the project was unprecedented, with both the stars bulking up for the project to fit their larger-than-life characters. They both gained enormous weight for the film, spending most of their time following a strict fitness regime. By the end of it all, not only did they bulk up, but both weight more than 100 kgs. Prabhas even had to reportedly consume 40 egg whites every day to maintain his fitness. 
 
  
 
 
  Despite being at the peak of his career for his brand of films, Prabhas dedicated five long years for the magnum opus. He did not sign any other film in this period, focusing solely on the ‘Baahubali’ films. SS Rajamouli was so moved by his gesture that he gifted him the armour of Baahubali in return. Now, Prabhas will soon be seen in ‘Saaho’ along with Shraddha Kapoor, and will be making his Hindi debut with the film. 
 
  
 
 
  Seeing as ‘Baahubali’ was probably the most awaited film for all the right reasons, SS Rajamouli reportedly made four different climaxes for ‘Baahubali: The Conclusion’. While the climax the filmmakers kept seems interesting enough, we wonder how the other three climaxes would’ve played out and if Bhallaladeva emerges victorious in any of them! 
 
  
 
 
  The final ‘Baahubali’ film was released across a whopping 9000+ screens worldwide, with 6500 screens in India alone. This made record for being the widest Indian film release worldwide. No wonder the film broke so many box office records that remain untouched till now!
 
