Gurgaon: It appears the impasse over the   remodelling project — where a petrol pump stands in the way of the one-way underpass from Huda City Centre on August Kranti Marg, to the Delhi-bound carriageway of Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road — could finally be ending, making way for the delayed project to be completed and opened to traffic within months. Huda has identified a fresh site for the relocation of the HP petrol pump on Golf Course Road, which is acceptable to the owner of Karan Petroleum, Sukhjit Mann. 

 Huda had offered Mann four sites on Golf Course Road, of which, she has zeroed in on one. A dialogue between Huda and the pump management, which has been going on for a while, may now be reaching an agreement. Mann said, “Talks are on about the new site, though I’m yet to receive a letter of confirmation awarding me ownership of the plot.” 
 
 TOI has learnt Mann fears this plot too could go the way of another plot on Ambience road Huda had shown her in August 2016, on which they had later reneged. Meanwhile, she said earnings has taken a hit since she took down the pump’s name in preparation for the relocation. 
 
 On January 22, after inaugurating underpasses at   and   crossings, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said, “The Iffco Chowk project is also ready, except for the underpass, which is held up by the petrol pump. We’ll relocate it and inaugurate the remodelled crossing by March.”
 
 Sources said the petrol pump management is happy with the proposed plot. Paperwork for the transfer has also begun. The pump management is expected to be handed over possession in a day or two. Huda estate officer 2 Vivek Kalia added a note of caution, saying, “The site has gone for approval, but hasn’t been approved yet.” The   consultant though said authorities have promised to hand over the pump land within 10 days. 
 
 Saurabh Singhal, traffic transport expert at Bloom Companies, NHAI consultant for the Iffco Chowk project, said, “It’ll take us one full month from the day we get the pump site, to finish the underpass.” To which, Mann said, “We’ll take at least three weeks to shift the pump — underground storage tanks to infrastructure — from its present site.”
 
 The completed underpass is expected to ease traffic movement from Huda City Centre to MG Road. Mann’s petrol pump is located at Iffco Chowk, between   and its service lane, right where the underpass emerges and is supposed to merge with MG Road. 
 
 NHAI had set May 2019 as the deadline for completion of the underpass project. Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said, “Quick relocation of the petrol pump is essential. Files for NOC and forest clearance will be okayed as soon as they arrive.” TOI has also learnt Huda might hand over the petrol pump relocation site by Friday or Saturday. A NHAI official said with 95% of the underpass work complete, they can’t afford redesigning the project this late.
 
 
