JAIPUR: At least 6% people suffering from diabetes and 10% from hypertension in the state. The   department has conducted its own study of finding out the percentage of population with diabetes and hypertension.

 At a state-level function organised on World Health Day, health minister   said that a series of measures have been taken for preventing NCDs in the state.
 
 “We conducted screening at district hospitals and also at outreach camps and found that 6% were suffering from diabetes and 10% with hypertension,” said Dr R N Meena, National Programme for Prevention and Control of Cancer, Diabetes, Cardiovascular Diseases and Stroke (NPCDCS).
 
 Now, intensifying battle against increasing threat from non-communicable diseases (NCDs), the health department has set up NCD clinics across the state at district hospitals in 2017-18.
 
 Now, it is going to launch a massive population-based screening for NCDs in five districts of the state to identify people suffering from diabetes, hypertension and three types of cancers—oral, breast and cervix.
 
 “Now, the population based screening which will be conducted in five districts initially in first phase will help us in understanding the actual prevalence of NCDs,” said Meena.
 
 The health department will rope in auxiliary nurse midwives (ANM) and Accredited Social health Activists ( ) workers for conducting the population-based screening for NCDs.
 
 ASHAs and ANMs were provided with training for screening. A detailed protocol for treatment, referrals and follow-up on these disease conditions will be provided. If a person is found to be suspected case of diabetes and hypertension, he will be referred to nearby government hospital for his treatment.
 
 According to the officials, it is seen that since NCDs do not exhibit symptoms until complications set in, such population based screening for NCDs are quite instrumental in detecting the patients early.
 
 The guidelines issued for the population based screening by the Centre says, “Over the last thirty years, the problem of diabetes has changed from being a mild disorder of the elderly to one of the major causes of morbidity and mortality affecting youth and middle aged people. A recent ICMR-INDIAB (2014) study, estimated that there are about six crore people with diabetes in 2014 and seven crore with pre-diabetes, making it one of the largest non-communicable epidemics.
 
 
