PATNA: The cool calculations and accompanying scramble by the four major political parties to muster MLAs’ support to send their nominees to the   has begun, as the Election Commission issued the notification on Monday for the filing of nomination papers in the biennial election to the six seats from the state falling vacant early next month.

 While the last date for the filing of nomination papers is March 12, with March 15 for the withdrawal of names, the election would be held on March 23 on the premises of the   whose secretary Ramshreshth Rai has been made the election officer.
 
 Of the six seats falling vacant on April 2, the four belong to the JD(U) and two to the BJP. From the BJP side, the two seats held are by Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Dharmendra Pradhan.
 
 As to the JD(U), the seat held by Ali Anwar fell vacant a couple of months ago after Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu disqualified his membership on the JD(U) plea. The three other JD(U) members are the party’s state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh, Mahendra Prasad alias King Mahendra, and  .
 
 However, the relative position of the four major political parties — RJD, JD(U), BJP and   — in the state assembly has left them in a tizzy. In a 243-member House, its effective strength on the date of issuance of the   notification is 240, which would count during voting. 
 
 The RJD has 79 MLAs, JD(U) 70, BJP 52 and the Congress 27. Among the smaller parties, the CPI((ML) has three members, the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) two each, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) one, apart from four Independents. A Rajya Sabha nominee will require 35 votes to win the election. 
 
 In a consensual situation, the share of the Rajya Sabha seats of JD(U) and BJP would be halved, with two going to the JD(U) and one to the BJP, while of the remaining three, two would go to the RJD and one to the Congress.
 
 However, the entry of the seventh candidate in the fray would force election, leading to subterranean moves to muster support of the MLAs even by horse trading, which is a situation that CM Nitish Kumar might like to avoid, observers felt.
 
 Otherwise, for the sixth seat, Congress with 27 MLAs could win it with nine surplus votes from the RJD and CPI(ML) support. On the other hand, BJP having 17 surplus votes of its own, one of JD(U), four of RLSP and LJP and four Independent MLAs would have to make strenuous efforts to poach on the Congress MLAs to sail through. At present, the Congress is a confused house which has led the BJP to fancy its chances for the second seat.
 
 
