BELAGAVI:  ,   was being kept at   in Auto Nagar here, the   (NRCM) Hyderabad has said in its report after 28 samples were collected and sent for testing earlier this month.

 Officials of the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWIB), an NGO, raided several cold storage units on February 26 following complaints from an advocate, Harshvardhan Patil.
 
 They claimed to have found meat being packed in unhygienic conditions. Patil also wrote to Union minister and animal rights activist   who visited the units soon after the raid and alleged that they were being run illegally with the help of local authorities. Following the furore, police officials collected around 28 samples and sent them to Hyderabad for testing. Six storage owners were arrested and are now out on bail.
 
 NRCM has issued reports on 19 samples, among which seven were found to contain prohibited meat. The reports say the packages contain meat of ox, cow, cow calf and buffalo. The first three meats are prohibited in the state under the   Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act 1964. The remaining reports are awaited. Once they are in, the reports will all be produced before court.
 
 Following the raids, the cold storage owners had denied charges of illegal cow slaughter. One of them said he was being harassed by BJP workers who were targeting the local Congress MLA for his alleged links to the cold storage units. The owners said they were only storing and packaging buffalo meat.
 
 NRCM has sent its reports to the Malmaruti police station, clearly stating that some of the test samples are of meat prohibited in the state. Advocate Patil told TOI that while his claims had been vindicated in the current reports, there was more to come. He said the quality of meat packaged by the units was in question too. “It is shocking that the meat of goat and cattle was being mixed up and being packed. There was no fear among the cold storage owners as it was impossible to lodge a complaint against them,” he said.
 
