PATNA: The fate of thousands of students, who wrote Class X (Indian Certificate Secondary Education) and XII (Indian School Certificate) papers this year, will be decided on May 14. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) said the Class X and XII results would be declared on May 14 after 3pm.

 The official letter in this regard was uploaded on May 8 to the CISCE official website www.cisce.org or www.results.cisce.org and indiaresults.com. Schools will be able to access the results by logging on to the careers portal of the council using the principal’s login ID and password. Last year, the results were declared late, on May 29, corresponding to the moderation row caused by the   ( ).
 
 Around 2,800 students have appeared for Class X and 900 for Class XII examinations in Patna. Class X examination was held between February 26 and March 28, while the Class XII examination was conducted between February 7 and April 2.
 
 This year, 33% is needed to pass the ICSE, instead of 35%. Similarly, the pass percentage for ISC has been reduced from 40% to 35%. A decision to this effect was taken by the council in November last year to implement the Union human resource development ministry’s recommendation that all national boards should have the same pass mark criteria.
 
 City coordinator of CISCE, Farhat Hassan told this newspaper on Friday that the schools are expecting 100% pass results as the council has reduced the pass percentage. City schools claimed that application forms for admission in Class XI will be available at their counters soon after the announcement of results.
 
 Ipshita Singh, a Class X student of  , said she would decide where to take admission on the basis of her result. “If I scored more than 90%, I’ll try to get admission in Delhi. If it’s less than that, I’ll stay in Patna,” she said.
 
 Last year, 98.53% students cleared the Class X examinations while 96.47% passed Class XII.
 
 Meanwhile, the CBSE will announce Class X results in last week of May and that of Class XII at least two days prior to the Class X results. The   will declare the Intermediate results in mid-May and the Class X results in first week of June.
 
 
