NEW DELHI: Rahul was not the brightest child in school, but his skills at mathematical calculations surprised many. The boy, from Jind in Haryana, could tell the day for any date in history in seconds. But then, epilepsy struck and he was put on medications that limited his academic growth. 

 In a rare surgery, which shows how brain surgery may not be the end of learning in life, doctors at   (AIIMS) recently operated on him to remove a part of the brain that was causing epileptic seizures. It was lying in the left temporal lobe, which is responsible for language functions and verbal memory among others, doctors said. 
 
 “It took us nearly three hours to complete the surgery. Post-surgery reviews show his memory is intact,” Dr Sarat Chandra, professor neurosurgery, AIIMS said.
 
 Rahul was diagnosed with epilepsy in 2002, when he was only eight years old. Manoj Kumar, his father, said that despite his extraordinary skills, Rahul’s academic growth remained affected due to epilepsy. “I went to all big hospitals in Haryana and Uttarakhand, but to no reprieve. The doctors at AIIMS have given him a new life,” he said.
 
 After surgery, Rahul has retained his memory and the unique skill. “June 15, 1983 was a Wednesday and June 15,1982 a Tuesday,” he said promptly, when asked by TOI to tell days for certain dates. Now that the epileptic attacks are not to bother him anymore, the 24-year-old plans to study further and excel in mathematics.
 
 Dr Manjari Tripathi, professor of neurology, said, before the surgery, Rahul suffered from five to six seizures daily. “Medicines weren’t able to control them so we had to contemplate a surgery. However, given his extraordinary skills, extra care was taken to ensure that the memory function was not affected,” he added. 
 
 In normal individuals, verbal memory is controlled by left side of the brain. But in Rahul’s case, functional MRI showed that the vital functions were transferred to the right due to which he managed to retain his memory and the special abilities, Dr D Ramesh, a senior neurosurgeon,All India Institutes of Medical Sciences, said.
 
 
