  : The state home department has increased the clothing allowances of serving IPS officers serving in state cadre from Rs 14,000 to Rs 20,000 per year. 

 A government resolution in this regard was issued recently.
 
 The GR states that the initial equipment allowance, kit maintenance allowance, robe allowance, robe maintenance allowance, show allowance and washing allowance, have been clubbed into clothing allowance for the IPS officers in the state. In addition to this, the clothing allowance has also been linked with the dearness allowance of these officers and would proportionally increase with each hike.
 
 On the other hand, the policemen in the rank of constables to assistant sub-inspectors are entitled to an annual   allowance of Rs 5,167 that covers the dress, shoes and the insignias.
 
 The officers of the rank of police sub inspectors to superintendent of police (state services), who are entitled to a meagre sum of Rs 1,250 per year, get clothing allowances of Rs 6,000 every four years.
 
 The discrimination has not gone down well with the officers of the state service commission. Though, none of the officers have agreed to come on record, but all of them have expressed displeasure over the partiality of the by the state home department.
 
 A police inspector who is posted in the city said, "Starting from past couple of years, the constabulary in the state have started getting the clothing allowance of Rs 5,167 annually, but for the officers of the rank of   to additional SPs continue to get just Rs 1,250.
 
 A deputy superintendent of police said, "For an officer, it takes anything around Rs 7,000 to Rs 10, 000 for readying his complete uniform. And all the police officers on field duties require at least three pairs of uniform each week. "According to him, officer's shoes doesn't cost less than Rs 3,000; Khaki cloth and teaching costs Rs 3,000 and above, belt costs Rs 300, shoulder stars cost Rs 500 and cap costs about Rs 1,000," he said.
 
 A DySP rank officer said, "As the amount for the mid-rung officers in the state is too petty, the officers prefer drawing it only once in four years, due to which the officers have started believing the clothing allowance for them to be Rs 6,000 once in four years."
 
 An additional SP rank officer said that the step-motherly treatment with the mid-rung officers should be stopped so that it stops demotivating them. The officer also claimed that the state government's approach is demoralising for the police force to a great extent. 
 
 
