Kolkata: On a day the world mourns the death of Stephen Hawking, the Geological Survey of India (GSI) has news that would have made him happy. 

 After a nine-month-long search, GSI has concluded that the search for extra-terrestrial life might not be a wild goose chase after all. The composition of a meteor that fell in Rajasthan in June indicates the presence of both carbon and water, taking the life-in-space theory another notch forward. The GSI is headquartered in Kolkata.
 
 This is not all. The GSI’s conclusions regarding a second meteor that fell exactly a day before the Rajasthan one, in Assam, is equally fascinating. It says that though this meteorite is not as rare in composition as the one in Rajasthan, it might have come from the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter, making it a rare meteor visitor in its own right.
 
 The meteor that fell at Mukundpura in Rajasthan on June 6 has been christened Mukundpura Meteorite and it belongs to the CM group of carbonaceous chondrites (C for carbonaceous and M for Mighei, its locality), which is “the rarest of rare” kind, according to GSI scientists, because only 3% of meteorites that have fallen on Earth belong to this category. 
 
 In India, this is the fourth such instance since 1890. The last time such a chrondrite fell was on January 17, 1921, in Haripura, also in Rajasthan. 
 
 “After a detailed research on the Mukundpura meteor, we have concluded it contains hydrous or water-bearing minerals, oxides and sulphides along with the presence of poly-aromatic carbon materials in the matrix. The presence of volatile organic chemicals and water (up to 20%), makes it the most pristine primordial matter recovered from space which might carry important clues about the origin of early life,” said G Suresh, deputy director general of GSI. 
 
 The other key conclusion is that the meteor is part of a system that did not undergo heating beyond 200 degrees Celsius and its composition is considered close to that of the solar nebula from which the solar system might have condensed. “These are landmark findings and we will continue with our search till we get further details about chemical characterisation of the meteorite,” Suresh said.
 
 The Assam meteorite, which fell on June 5 on the floodplains of the Lohit river, has been categorised as an ordinary iron meteorite. It has been named Sadiya Ordinary Chondrite and has a well preserved fusion crust, surface groove and thumb-like impressions on the surface.
 
 
