JOHANNESBURG: Not for the first time since landing in South Africa, the Indian team is staring at a scenario in which they are effectively placed to win a Test match.

 
 
 They had worked their way to somewhat of an opportunity on Day Four in Cape Town but gave away the initiative. They once again worked their way to an opportunity of sorts in the first innings in Centurion, only to fritter the advantage away.
 
 
 
 On Thursday, they yet again worked their way to a somewhat advantageous position. The remaining days of this third Test here at the Wanderers will show if they do any better. The series is lost but not the contest.
 
 Riding on what should rank among India's most memorable bowling performances in conditions away from home where pace has dominated,  's men bowled out South Africa for 194 in their first innings after registering 187 in their first innings on Day One on Wednesday. At stumps, India happened to be 42 runs ahead of the hosts with nine wickets in hand, batting on a wicket where every run scored will only add to South Africa's headache.
 
 The cracks are widening and on Friday, India still have to do that one thing they've missed out on so far - putting runs on the board.
 
 To pick nine South African wickets in under three sessions and then give away just one in the remaining 17 overs of the day is an effort India can be proud of. It's been better than any other display they've come up with the bat since they landed here, barring Virat Kohli's two knocks - a century and a half-century - and Pujara's defining 50 the other day.
 
 As umpires took the bails off to mark the end of the day's play, clouds began hovering over the Wanderers once again, as has been the case here the last three days. The weather forecast had suggested rain throughout this week.
 
  and KL Rahul, India's openers who have struggled with the new ball, pace and swing, faced 87 deliveries between them to see off the last session. Runs did not matter as three good days potentially remain. What mattered was staying around, an art that India's openers were found lacking in so far in South Africa.
 
 And yet, the battle hasn't tilted in India's favour yet.   gave a distinct presentation of his skills as he went about taking body blows, leaving, surviving and playing for 239 minutes and 121 balls - consuming close to two-and-a-half sessions of the entire day's play. The elegant South African's personal battle was a constant reminder of the conditions at play.
 
 Barring him and   - alongside  's wristy 30 from 84 balls that left India frustrated early in the morning - the hosts generally struggled.
 
 While no target could be comfortable for any team batting last, set any score in access of 200 to 225 and India could well be in the game. 
 
