PATIALA: While the   government has initiated the process of doling out Rs 2,662.62 crore as relief for 5,63,508 farmers who have taken loans from cooperative credit institutions, around 40 % of these farmers have been hit by the ‘Aadhaar hurdle’. Their cases have been put on hold for their failure to produce the Unique Identity Codes.

 The Supreme Court in its last orders had extended the   linking deadline for bank accounts to March 31, 2018. The apex court is yet to pronounce a final verdict on 28 separate writ petitions challenging the very validity of the Aadhaar scheme for which January 17, has been fixed as the next date of hearing. However, the Punjab government has decided to make Aadhaar mandatory for farmers who are to get the debt relief.
 
 Additional chief secretary of the Punjab department of cooperative societies D.P. Reddy said cases of a large number of farmers had to be put on hold as they could not produce Aadhaar documents or their validation of Aadhaar cards by the   (UIDAI) was still pending. He said the department had asked the officials concerned at the district level to ensure that farmers who were yet to get their Unique Identification Codes were helped in doing so.
 
 When asked that the government of India has put on hold linking of various schemes with the Aadhaar card till March 31, Reddy said, “The decision taken by the Union government was not linked to the debt relief scheme of the state government”.
 
 As per the official records prepared by the department of cooperative societies, as many as 5,63,508 farmers had been identified in the pre-notification assessment for which a total debt relief of Rs 2,662.27 crore was to be provided. Out of this, case details of about 5,17,078 farmers were uploaded to the official portal of the department post September 20, 2017, notification issued by the state government on debt relief. The amount to be given increased to Rs 2,710.14 crore.
 
 Out of the data uploaded on the portal, cases of 3,18,183 farmers were accepted for which an amount of Rs 1,667.87 crore has been finalised.
 
 According to sources in the department, the cases of 30,475 farmers amounting to Rs 151.74 crore were put on hold as relevant documents required for processing their claims could not be secured, while cases of 1,68,420 farmers (amounting to Rs 890.53 crore) were put on hold as the farmers could not produce their unique identification codes provided in the Aadhaar cards. These sources said out of the total number of farmers identified for debt relief, a total of 1,98,895 cases (amounting to Rs 1,042.27) had now been put on hold.
 
 Confirming the development, A S Bains, registrar of the co-operative society said, “The process has just been started and there are some teething problems. However, the department is working on it and all pending cases would soon be cleared.
 
 “We have clear instructions from the government that all cases should be cleared at the earliest and the department is working on it. I can assure that no farmer would be left out,” he added.
 
 It was on September 20, 2017, that the state cabinet had decided to notify the farm loan waiver. The notification was approved by the state cabinet following which finance minister   had stated that besides the waiver, the government has also decided to take over the outstanding interest of farmers from April 1, till the date of notification as per the recommendations made by the agriculture economist Dr T Haque-headed expert panel.
 
 Along with farmers who had taken crop loans from the cooperative credit institutions, the government is also working to provide debt relief to nearly 10.25 lakh farmers in the state. The crop loans worth Rs 2 lakh of small and marginal farmers, having landholdings of up to 5 acres have been waived off. A relief of Rs 2 lakh is to be given to the remaining marginal farmers irrespective of the amount of loan.
 
 
 
