CHANDIGARH: Punjab local bodies, tourism and cultural affairs minister Navjot Singh   has put his foot down for a   probe against Punjab Civil Service (PCS) officer Navjot Pal Singh   who is facing allegations of illegally selling antique artefacts worth crores in the international market.

 It is learnt the personnel department, after chief minister Amarinder Singh’s consent, had ordered a fact-finding inquiry against the former director of tourism and cultural affairs department. But Sidhu has refused to step back on his earlier recommendation of CBI probe in the case stating it a serious matter. The minister has said antiques’ sale comes under CBI’s jurisdiction and it needs to be investigated how many heritage artefacts have been smuggled out of Punjab.
 
 A senior officer aware of the facts told TOI, “A fact finding inquiry was marked in Randhawa’s case last month. Retired IAS officer   was appointed as the inquiry officer.” However, the officer added, the tourism and cultural affairs department did not provide required documents and material for carrying out the inquiry proceedings, said the officer. 
 
 Taking a strong stand, Sidhu refused to settle for anything less than the CBI probe and again shot off a letter reiterating his stand. There are allegations against Randhawa that he misused his official position in smuggling antique artefacts abroad since he had remained director museums in Chandigarh as well as Punjab for over a decade since 2007.
 
 Initially, Sidhu had on September 1 last year written to chief minister Amarinder Singh recommending CBI investigation against Randhawa. Sidhu’s move was prompted after Punjab chief secretary received a letter from the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) last year bringing to fore that in connivance with one Vijay  , Randhawa had sold valuable antique artefacts abroad for crores of rupees. 
 
 Sidhu had also recommended Randhawa’s suspension to the chief minister stating that DRI’s report clearly says that Randhawa had made a confession of being in touch with Nanda and his fiend Devesh Goel. As per the DRI report, Randhawa had made an admission of accepting around Rs 1.50 crore from Nanda. Even Goel, in his statement made before the DRI, had submitted in March last year that Randhawa was one of his sources for procurement of antique items for further supply to the Sage Mercantile, owned by Nanda.
 
 
