Fashion and trends are things that change every second. However, with fashion that keeps changing every now and then, it is quite difficult to keep up with the latest trends. There are some things which are undying… These are the most necessary pieces that go with every shape and colour. These apparels are the foundation of an elegant wardrobe.
We always tend to keep fidgeting through our closets, especially in the morning, when we need to get ready. To help you glide through your closet swiftly for any occasion, here is a list of 6 must-haves in every girl’s wardrobe.
 
 
 
 A little black dress will always be your ultimate saviour. Be it for a date or a party, just slip into your LBD and you’re ready. To make it even more stylish, look for a dress with detail and an interesting sleeve. Add an embellished belt to make it unique.
 
 
 
 You can never go wrong with a white shirt/tee irrespective of wherever you are going to be, it will never abandon you. And white goes well with any colour and any bottom wear; be it denim, formal pants, or even a nice skirt. 
 
 
 
 No matter what style of jeans you prefer, — boot cut, cropped, skinny or flared every girl needs a pair of jeans. The best part is that, they go well with anything. It can be worn everywhere and anywhere no matter what the ocassion is. With a perfect pair of jeans, you have endless possibilities.
 
 
 
 This piece of outfit will bring out that ultra-chic look in you. The best buy is when you find a blazer that fits your body shape perfectly. It is classy, bold, edgy, and everything that pleases one’s eye. You can pair it with jeans, short dresses, trousers, and skirts.
 
 
 
 Your must-have footwear is a pair of black pumps and a pair of black ballet… from parties and weddings, to dates, they will always be your best friend. A pair of black ballets makes even the most distressed jeans look chic. And it goes perfectly with short dresses too. While selecting your pumps, make sure they aren’t too flashy.
 
 
 A trench coat is waterproof and does not carry much weight. Think of it as an asset. While searching for a trench coat, look for a classic A-line silhouette. Get a neutral colour which will go with every other piece of clothing you own.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
