CHENNAI: A 23-year-old who allegedly killed his mother while on bail, escaped from police custody and threatened to kill his father: It took a dramatic turn of events for the police to be hot on S Dashvanth’s heels. The same court that convicted him on Monday for sexual assault and murder has 76 other cases of child sexual abuse pending, some dating back to 2013.

 While   waited for the judge to convict him, TOI unearthed similar stories awaiting trial at the mahila court in  . And the numbers were startling. In the past three years, besides Dashvanth’s case, only two other cases tried under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ( ) ended in conviction.
 
 Section 35 (2) of the Act stipulates a period of one year from the date of the court taking cognisance of the incident to disposal of cases. But around 200 cases are under investigation by police, at least 70 of them for more than a year. The court has returned 53 first information reports to the investigating officials for further clarifications and evidences before chargesheeting.
 
 “We have child sexual abuse victims reliving their trauma every other day by seeing their perpetrator’s face in the court or in their neighbourhood for two years and more,” said a lawyer. “This because police have either bungled or delayed chargesheets,” she said.
 
 Although data on the number of cases disposed of were not immediately available, advocates said the overall conviction rate is less than 15% in the court as many of them end in acquittals.
 
 Victims, lawyers said, usually “turn hostile” when they are asked to depose in the court. In most cases, the victim appears before the court but does not testify. “This is either because the victim and the accused reached a compromise or the victim got married to someone else,” said advocate V Kannadasan, citing a similar instance with his client who was a victim. The case had been pending in the Madras high court for three years. 
 
 Lawyers said families also back out as they are worried about people knowing and their daughters’ marital prospects being affected. Chandran*, whose seven-year-old daughter was sexually assaulted and murdered by Dashvanth, is among those who chose to brave on. “I don’t blame families for backing out,” he said  . “NGOs encourage us but police question our judgement for choosing to fight. There are multiple hurdles for families on the way, the biggest being delayed paperwork by officials,” he said.
 
 
