NAGPUR: Private companies shortlisted for Nagpur airport privatization deal are bargaining hard for curtailing expenditure in the first phase of airport development plan. In a pre-bid meeting held in the city, representatives of the companies were insisting that development of certain assets may be dropped in the first phase at least.

 These include the second runway as well as new terminal building, said sources among those who took part in the meeting held on Monday. The second runway, however, is a crucial component of airport development plan since the time of conception. It has been projected that once the operations are scaled up by having a cargo hub here, another runway will be needed to ease congestion.
 
 The meeting was attended by representatives of four of the five companies that have qualified to bid for airport privatization. These include GVK, GVR, Essel Infra and PNC Infra. Tata Realty that had also cleared the qualification round did not take part in pre-bid meet. Another company IRB Infrastructure which had also qualified for the bidding pulled out of the race last year.
 
 The private players said the second runway as well as a new terminal building may not be needed in the first phase, which covers the initial four years after privatization. It was insisted that the first runway would be enough and the existing terminal building can be refurbished and while one can be built in the second phase.
 
 At present, the airport is being operated by   (MIL), which will be offloading its 74% stake to the private player who will develop the airport. Now the decision is with the MIL to accept the companies’ demands or not. There are enough chances of the changes demanded by the companies being turned down, said sources.
 
 The private investor will have to pump in over Rs1400 crore for development of Nagpur airport. The entire plan has been split in two phases. The companies are expected to submit their bids by April 27 and another round of pre-bid negotiations will be held in a week’s time, sources said.
 
 
