CHENNAI: The mercury is climbing and humans and animals are feeling the heat alike. Hence, animal lovers in the city are doing their best to ensure that strays stay hydrated and get access to clean drinking water. NGOs too are pitching in by distributing free   bowls. 

 Every year, thousands of homeless animals die due to dehydration and diseases caused by drinking polluted water. The Water Bowl Project was born to combat these cases. In Chennai, the Blue Cross of India (BCI) has been doing its bit for strays for years. "We began giving out the water bowls mid-April this year and so far we have distributed over 700 bowls," says Sathya Radhakrishnan, honorary joint secretary, BCI. The cement bowls are free and anyone can pick it up from the BCI shelter in Velachery.
 
 "We give them bowls as well as some cement so that they can attach the bowls to the ground. That way they won't be stolen or topple over," says Radhakrishnan. The bowls are numbered and painted with the BCI logo. "Once they have placed them, we ask the people to send us photographs of the bowls or post pictures on Facebook."
 
 People for Cattle in India (PFCI) has also been distributing water bowls for the past five years. "We have given away about 300 bowls so far and have 100 more to give away," says G Arun Prasanna, founder, PFCI. "People can pick it up from our centre in T Nagar. We also have volunteers who can deliver the bowls to homes in case people require more than one."
 
 Both NGOs, however, request people to place the bowls in spots where passersby are not inconvenienced. "We ask them to keep it outside or near their homes, or at road corners where it won't be a hindrance to pedestrians," says Radhakrishnan. "We also ask them to change the water every day and clean the bowls regularly." says Prasanna, adding that they also do followups to ensure the instructions are followed.
 
 It's not just in the city, people from elsewhere are also picking up the bowls. "I am a member of the   of Coimbatore and we take new initiatives every month. Since I am an animal lover I thought of taking up the water bowl project," says Subashree Rathi, 24, a student in Chennai. "I picked up 25 bowls from BCI and took it to Coimbatore, and members of the club are placing them across the city."
 
 
