BHOPAL: For the first time in 14 years, the ruling BJP’s victory roller-coaster in Madhya Pradesh received a severe jolt on Saturday with the urban civic poll results. Out of the 20 civic bodies in semi-urban areas that went to polls on January 17, Congress and BJP won nine each and in Jaithari in Anuppur district a Congress supported independent won.

 Counting for Semaria town council in Rewa district was stalled after a court order.
 
 Among the six municipalities including the bigger towns of Dhar and Barwani, BJP lost four to the Congress – a development that is unprecedented since 2003. In the 13 other town council polls, BJP won seven and Congress secured five.
 
 Congress gave a neck-and-neck fight in most and gained ground in the major urban areas, so far considered bastions of the ruling party.
 
 Congress was jubilant and enthused but celebrations were not permitted as a mark of respect to senior party leader and former Speaker Shriniwas Tiwari who passed away in New Delhi on Friday. “The BJP was calling these civic polls the quarter final before the November assembly elections. Results indicate that Congress will form government in the next assembly elections,” said state Congress president Arun Yadav.
 
 “We thank the people and dedicated Congress workers who made these encouraging results possible. The so-called magic of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has been demolished and Congress is ready to take the challenge of Mungaoli – Kolaras bypolls and the year-end assembly elections,” Yadav added. 
 
 Five years ago, the BJP won 13 of these civic bodies comprising of the municipalities of Barwani, Dhar, Raghogarh, Sendhwa, Manawar and Pithampur and the Congress was curtailed to seven town councils.
 
 On Saturday, much of this reversed as Congress after a gap of 45 years wrested Manawar municipality in Dhar district from the BJP. Manawar voted for the BJP even during Congress regime and Saturday’s result took political leaders of both parties by surprise. Congress candidate from Manawar municipality chairperson Sangeeta Shivram Patidar beat the BJP’s Manu Shivram Patidar by a margin of 314 votes. Patidar polled a total 5,787 votes and Congress candidates won in eight wards and BJP in seven.
 
 AICC general secretary Digvijaya Singh is still on his Narmada Yatra and remained absent from the campaign in his native town of Raghogarh. But, this did not let the Congress down. His son and MLA Jaivardhan Singh led the Congress in   municipality elections and the party won in 20 of the total 24 wards. BJP could manage a win in only four wards. Congress chairperson candidate, Aarti Sharma, won by a margin of 5,672 votes.
 
 In Barwani, Congress won in 13 wards and BJP in 11 wards. Congress’ chairman candidate Laxman Singh Chouhan received 15,140 votes while BJP’s candidate and four times MLA   got 12,542 votes. Congress also won Dhar where chairman candidate Parvat Singh Chouhan defeated the BJP candidate by 422 votes.
 
 Congress defeated BJP in Sardarpur, Rajgarh and Dharampuri town councils in Dhar district along with Anjar and   in Barwani. 
 
 BJP retained Pithampur where its chairperson candidate Kavita Sanjay Vaishnav won by a margin of 6,003 votes over her nearest Congress rival Munnibai. BJP wrested the Omkareshwar town council from the Congress. BJP chairman candidate Antar Singh Barre defeated Congress’ Daulat Singh Parihar by a margin of 1,622 votes. BJP won 12 out of the 15 wards in this temple town.
 
 Speaking to reporters Barre attributed the victory to chief minister Chouhan saying that his announcement to develop Omkareshwar as a religious tourism site won the hearts of voters.
 
 BJP also won Dhamnod, Kukshi and Dahi town councils in Dhar district with Pansemal, Khetia and Palsud in Barwani
 
 
