NAGPUR: There will be no passenger train movement from platform number 8 till April 13 as Central   will be celebrating ‘Railway Week’ for the first time in the city from April 10.

 Earlier, these celebrations used to take place at the CR headquarters in Mumbai.
 
 Following the celebrations,   has been shifted to platform number 6 and other eastbound trains will depart and arrive at platform number 3.
 
 ‘Railway Week’ is celebrated every year from April 10-16, to commemorate the first train run on the Indian sub-continent, on April 16, 1853 between Boribunder (now Mumbai) and Tannah (now Thane).
 
 The event will feature an exhibition at home platform (No. 8) from April 10-12 and will culminate in an award function on April 12. Central Railway general manager   will give away awards to officers and staff for their exemplary performance and dedicated services.
 
 He will also felicitate four railway officers and staff who have been nominated to receive awards at Railway Board level. Sharma will also present overall efficiency shield to the best division and other shields to different departments for their outstanding performance.
 
 Sunil Udasi, chief public relations officer (CPRO), Central Railway, said: “The exhibition will help educate a large number of people about Indian Railways. Entry to the exhibition is free.”
 
 The exhibition will feature various stalls displaying information on themes like — Indian Railway landmarks, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus heritage building, Central Railway and its five divisions, Scouts and Guides etc.
 
 “Static models of locomotives, coaches and working models of Neral-Matheran train and bullet train etc will also be displayed during the exhibition,” he said.
 
 The exhibition will also feature contribution of railways to the inclusive growth in the country showcasing new initiatives and cutting edge technology through setting up of kiosks, display boards, stalls etc with some add-ons to spread the spirit, ethos and progress made.
 
 
