PATIALA: The city is facing the problem of   chaos due to the construction of roads and lack of proper traffic management. There are numerous such spots in the city where the traffic lights are non-functional, which has made the chowks more chaotic.

 The officials of public works department (PWD) are busy carrying out construction work in areas including Mall road, lower mall road, near railway crossing No. 22, from Gurudwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib to   and others. The roads from Gurudwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib to bus stand and from Khanda Chowk to Dukh Niwaran Sahib have become hugely chaotic especially because one lane is completely closed. 
 
 The construction work is going on in some section of the road between   and Punjabi University, which has only aggravated traffic problems.
 
 Karnail Singh, traffic in-charge said, “We are managing the traffic in the city and we have deployed our entire staff to tackle the situation. The roads are being constructed and the decision was taken to close the one-way lane. If the vehicle crosses the under-construction road, it becomes difficult for the workers to match the level of the road. Some traffic lights have been repaired while few others having technical faults will also be repaired soon.”
 
 Police officials deployed at these spots revealed on conditions of anonymity that on numerous occasions, they have told some of their senior officials to open half of the lane for traffic as it would provide relief to the commuters. However, their pleas fell on deaf ears.
 
 Another major hurdle for the city police is the increasing number of cars and other vehicles illegally parked on the roads. The   (PMC) has failed to act strongly against illegal parking.
 
 “There is lack of parking facility in Patiala, following which we park our vehicles on the roads. The corporation has failed to provide proper parking spaces to us. Some illegal parking has come up in the city,” Gurpreet Singh, city resident.
 
 The corporation earlier had planned to come up with multi-level parking lots at few points in the city. However, the project failed to take any shape following lack of funds. 
 
 Deputy mayor YS yogi said, “The funds are being disbursed by the government and all the development projects will be taken into consideration one by one. Few proposals were made in the recent past to come up with solution for parking in the city. The roads being constructed in will ease traffic flow.”
 
 
