It is not every day that the finance minister of the country is seen chilling with his college buddies and reminiscing about the good old days. And this is exactly what happened at the 10th Annual Alumni Reunion of   on Saturday. Nostalgia lingered as the alumni members met their old college mates and spoke about their SRCC days. 

  
 
 Though everyone was busy talking about their college days, one of the topics of discussion was the first-ever woman principal of the college, current principal Simrit Kaur. While a lot of alumni came to congratulate her, some also told her that they were glad that a woman is now heading the institution. “When we were in college, there were few girls in our classes, but it feels great to know that you are the principal now,” an alumnus told the principal
  “In the years 1962-1965, when I was a student of SRCC, a debate was organised in the college – should SRCC remain as a boys’ college or be converted to a co-ed? The vice-principal then had said, ‘Who says it’s a boys’college? It is a co-ed college, but girls do not take admission in the Commerce stream’. Times have really changed now, not only do girls make 55% of the students, but the biggest example of women empowerment is Simrit Kaur,” said Girish Ahuja, president, SRCC Alumni Association.
 
  
  Ex-principal RP Rustagi with the current principal, Simrit Kaur (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 The event started with the National Anthem, and soon after, the alumni spoke about their college days. The finance minister addressed the gathering and talked about the college he is proud of. “This is the annual meeting and dinner that the association organises every year and many of us try and attend this for reasons which are obviously nostalgic. You go decades back when you have been a part of this great institution. I remember, Justice Sikri always had a thick beard in college and his second distinguished feature was that he never came second. He topped whichever exam he appeared in. And   was as Vijay Goel is today. I have had the privilege of sharing mutual affection and association for almost four-and-a-half decades with him. We all feel proud when we get to know about the rankings of the college and I think what has changed with each passing day is the stature and reputation of the college,” he said.
 
  
  Arun Jaitley (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
 
 Vijay Goel, the Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs, kept his speech short and interesting as he quickly talked about his associations with everyone present from his college days. “SRCC ka sabse bada fayda yeh hai ki agar aap iss college se padhe hain toh aapko studious mana jayega, chahe aap padhe ya nahi. Arun Jaitley was not in my class, he was a year senior to me. He was the president of the students’ union, I was the joint secretary and CK Khanna, BCCI’s acting president, was the secretary. Tabse leke aaj tak hum Jaitley sahab ke saath chal rahe hain aur ab yeh Rajya Sabha mein Leader of the House hain, hum ussi Rajya Sabha mein minister hain,” said Goel, as he gave a brief background of their bond.
 
  
  Arun Jaitley and Vijay Goel 
 
 
 
 
  President Sunil Sethi, who had taken part in most of the college events and tried his hand at almost everything in college, said, “I have gone and debated with Arun Jaitley as a team. We used to win because he was the best and he used to score the maximum points and so, as his partner, I would also get something. As a team, we have won many competitions. I have played cricket with CK Khanna in college and travelled all over India for matches.Vijay Goel and I have taken part in many college activities.   and I have acted together in college plays, we were part of the dramatics society. There has been a close contact with all of them and people know CK Khanna due to cricket, but in college, he was the secretary of the students’ union. His canvassing was so good, most of the votes that he got was because he was always there since we all lived around the university area.”
 
  
  Sunil Sethi
 
 
 
