LUCKNOW: “I have adopted Lucknow not just as a political or parliamentary constituency, but like a child—to nurse it and groom it into one of the best cities of the country,” Union home minister   told TOI on the completion of four years of his tenure as MP from the state capital.

 In an exclusive interview during his recent visit to the city, Rajnath claimed that his relations with Lucknow were forever and he would contest the 2019 election from this constituency which has given him immense love and affection.
 
 Not known for launching vitriolic attacks on his rivals, Rajnath refrained from commenting on what previous governments had done or not done for Lucknow in the past 20 years, but he claimed that through his hard work, he had ensured all-round development in the city in the past four years.
 
 “I have been regularly visiting the city, meeting people and delegations to know about its needs. After these interactions, I came to know about the requirement for another ring road to channelise the load of heavy vehicles. The result is the Rs 5,400-crore outer ring road,” he said.
 
 “For the 104km outer ring road, the land acquisition work is nearing completion and construction of major bridges, overbridges, and foot overbridges is in full swing in different sectors. Besides, to reduce congestion on the existing Lucknow-Kanpur road, the central government has sanctioned a new green field expressway between Lucknow and Kanpur, reducing the
 
 distance between the two cities from 85km to 75km,” Rajnath added.
 
 Having inherited the political legacy of former PM  , who was the city MP from 1991till 2004, Rajnath, who contested for the first time from here in 2014, said whether it was   or the slums, funds had equally flowed from his MPLAD coffers or through other schemes of the Centre for their development and basic amenities in the city.
 
 “Besides, a number of roads, overbridges and flyovers have been constructed inside the city for better traffic movement,” he said, adding “after the road network, my focus was on airport upgradation and on this initiative, Chaudhary Charan   is getting a third terminal. Central government has announced Rs 1,383 crore for the project.
 
 For the renovation, beautification and upgradation of Lucknow’s Charbagh station, railway ministry has sanctioned Rs 1,800 crore.”
 
 “I am always ready to help people from Lucknow. Recently when a traders’ delegation met me about high GST rates on certain goods, I raised their concern before finance minister  . He considered the reqeuest and rates were reduced,” he added.
 
