VISAKHAPATNAM: The port city is all geared up to celebrate the festival of colours on Friday and Saturday. But this time, it will not be just colours and gulal that the denizens would be throwing on each other but tomatoes too! 

 Every year, many organisations conduct   parties and rain dance in the city. There’s also a new attraction this year — Tomatina (tomato-throwing festival) — and most of these celebrations are lined along the Beach Road. Around three tonnes of overripe tomatoes have been procured from the markets and farmers for the Tomatina festival, which is being held for the first time in Vizag.
 
 However, green NGOs have cautioned the denizens on wastage of thousands of litres of water during the Holi fest and have stressed on the need for water conservation.
 
 Though preparations and pujas for Holika Dahan (bonfire lit at night prior to Holi) were held on Thursday night, most of the programmes will be held on Friday including the Street Festival and Balam Pichkari.
 
 The street festival would start in the morning and continue till 11 pm. The main attractions are food and fashion bazaar, Tomatina, rain dance, camp fire, rock band and sky lanterns at RK Beach, opposite   beside Gokul Park. The other programme, Balam Pichkari, is being organised by the Akhil Bhartiya Marwari Mahila Samiti, Maheshwari Yuva Manch and Marwari Yuva Manch. 
 
 “Here, the celebrations include rain dance, Bollywood music and unlimited food at DSR Gardens, MVP Colony. Holika Dahan was conducted on Thursday night at RK Beach,” said  , a member of Marwari Yuva Manch. Holi celebrations and DJ music would also be held in Bollywood style at MGM grounds near Beach Road.
 
 Meanwhile, Vijay Potnuru, member of the NGO Trendsetters and Meecons, said: “Holi is a traditional festival which people have been playing since ages, without wasting a lot of water. However, the recent fads of rain dance in big groups and such Holi parties on a grand scale is leading to a lot of water wastage, especially before summer, when almost always water shortages occur in the city. Environment conscious denizens should come up voluntarily to stop such mass-scale water wastage and focus on conservation of water through construction of rainwater harvesting pits.”
 
 P Santosh from NGO Ken Foundation also requested the public to play Holi by using dry gulal and coloured powders instead of wasting several litres of water. 
 
 
