NEW DELHI: The Modi-Xi summit in   was not just a “talk shop”, but both leaders took real decisions and there was a consensus which will be implemented, said Luo Zhaohui, China’s ambassador to India. Speaking to journalists on Friday, Zhaohui gave an account of the summit, its drivers and the outcomes at the end of the series of meetings. The way forward for both governments, he said, were “implementation, transmission and action.” 

 
 It was important, he added, to build personal relationships between the leaders, which helped to implement decisions taken at meetings such as this.   and Xi met for nine hours through seven sessions of which four were oneon-one meetings. “We wanted Modiji to feel like he had come home,” he said. The table covers at the summit meeting, he said, came from  , and Chinese chefs were employed to cook Gujarati delicacies. “In 2014, when President Xi visited Modiji on his birthday, he gave him a vegetarian cake,” Zhaohui said emphasising the personal relationship that the two leaders had built. 
 
 The “informal summit’ he said, had been decided during the Xiamen meeting, and both sides worked hard to make a success of it, he said. While there have been several bilateral summits, for China it was different this time in three ways — it was held outside Beijing, there was no set agenda and the two leaders dwelt in depth on global and strategic issues. 
 
 India, he said, spoke about the trade deficit and wants China to open up its market to Indian sugar, pharmaceutical products and non-basmati rice. On Thursday, Zhaohui had tweeted, “China has exempted import tariffs for 28 drugs from May 1. Good news for India’s pharmaceutical industry and medicine export to China. I believe this will help reduce trade imbalance between China and India in the future.” 
 
 This, he said, was the first of several steps that will be taken. “President Xi asked the relevant ministries to see how China can import more from India,” he said. India and China had agreed to work on realising the BCIM (Bangladesh, China, India and Myanmar) grouping, as well as on a joint project in Afghanistan, Zhaohui said. On Thursday, when questioned, the MEA spokesperson said identification of the project was still in progress. 
 
  and Chinese President   will meet on three other occasions through the rest of this year —at the SCO summit in Qingdao, BRICS summit in South Africa in July and at the G-20 summit in Argentina. Both countries, he said, are focusing a fair amount of attention to “soft power cooperation” — this would include tourism, Buddhism, spiritualism, traditional medicine, films, sports etc. 
 
 “President Xi told Modiji that he had seen both Dangal and Secret Superstar.” Modi, he said explained to Xi the Indian strategy of “neighbourhood first” as well as the India development story. Xi, for his part, spoke about his vision for Made in China 2025, climate change and other things. Zhaohui said Xi was surprised to find that Modi had visited the famous Three Gorges Dam. “Modiji had visited China four times when he was chief minister of Gujarat.”
 
