PUNE: Get ready to be transported into the world of tribal art and culture of   while you are at the Pune airport.

 The city-based   that recently opened a display centre at the Pune airport now plans to take passengers on a virtual tour of the tribal museum at  . Not only will the airline passengers be able to check out different exhibits at the museum, those seeking to buy artefact and handicraft items will soon be able to place orders for the same, said officials of the institute.
 
 “Maharashtra’s tribal culture is rich in handicrafts and artefacts, We need to promote them. With the Pune airport now having a display centre, many passengers, including foreign tourists, will become aware of them. However, one cannot buy anything from this stall. We are in the process of designing a system to make it possible for people to buy the products. Things should take shape within three months,” an official told TOI.
 
 Vikram Sharma, the associate vice-president of Pune-based  , said two additional digital facilities will be provided for passengers. “A kiosk will be set up near the centre, which will have a screen attached. Any passenger interested in checking out the museum at Koregaon Park can do so by just navigating through the screen. People can also select items they wish to purchase, and the institute will make sure that it gets delivered to them”. Sharma also talked about the virtual reality feature — a special helmet will let a person get the actual feel of walking around in the real museum and enjoy the exhibits.
 
 Officials at the airport expected positive responses to these services. “With the help of this facility, many tourists will become aware of Maharashtra’s tribal heritage,” an airport official said.
 
 Passengers too were pleased. “Pune is an international airport and there must be different kinds of facilities in it. People should be able to access information related to food, travel in the city and the state right at the airport,”  , a frequent flyer, said.
 
 
