

 In a worrying trend, accidents and fatalities on Pune’s BRTS corridors are becoming more and more frequent. To be blamed are the serious flaws in the execution of the project, which should have followed the globally-accepted scientific, logical and compliance norms.
 
 In the case of BRTS, there was complete non-compliance in terms of exclusivity of continuous bus-ways, encroachment-free footpaths and cycle tracks. These parameters were the basic requirements — as per the National Urban Transport Policy (NUTP) 2006 — to maximize speed, safety and service.
 
 Over the years, the   ( ), rolled out a “modified hybrid transport system” in phases. It used about Rs 1,100 crore apart from the funds released by the   for the BRTS CYG and phase 1, and Rs 135 crore for the pilot BRTS project. However, the projects were rolled out without checking for compliance, industry norms, guidelines, features and/or safety.
 
  
  
 
 Our engagement in Phase 1 and CYG BRTS from 2012 was the result of 10,000-plus documents received through   applications made to the PMC, the Centre and the state government. Since 2013, more than 100 letters and emails were sent to the ULB, state and Centre to draw attention to the fact that ignoring the standard features of BRTS would result in a warped project. The letters were in addition to daily onsite interactions with the officers. Our communication has always drawn stoic silence.
 
 The Nagar Road-Sangamwadi-Alandi BRTS corridor was completed in haste so that the JNNURM funds could be used before the scheme’s closure on March 31, 2014. Because of this haste, several features, in line with MoUD guidelines, that would have enhanced the BRTS and ensured high commuter occupancy, were ignored or compromised. In retrospect, one can say it was planned to fail, so that the expensive   project, on a   basis, could move in seamlessly.
 
 The PMC appointed IITBombay in January 2014, only after we compelled it to get a road safety audit conducted by aqualified institute. The   recorded 75 adverse points that had to rectified in the interest of safety. Most of them have not been attended to yet. Here are a few suggestions for an immediate resolution that can prevent unnecessary accidents, congestion and stress.
 
 First, the entry and exit points of the   lanes must have sensor-activated electronic gates that would allow only BRT buses, fitted with chips, to pass through. In February 2014, Vivek  , the PMC’s HoD for JNNURM, rejected a prototype presentation by the BNCA students’ for a sensoractivated electronic gate. Even today, PMPML does not want to adopt this cost-effective method.
 
 Second, the traffic police must get tough. The wardens do not have the authority to seize private vehicles entering the corridors or challan them. Only the traffic police can do that.
 
 Also, free footpaths and cycle tracks must be made available along the BRT lane. Although this was a pre-condition for receiving Central funding, the clause was ignored by the PMC, which cited excuses like encroachments, land acquisition issues and court cases.
 
 The automatic doors at the bus shelters must be properly functional. Commuters often have to lean out to check for the arrival of the next bus because the digital displays are not working. They are at risk of falling and coming in the path of oncoming buses.
 
 The size of the intersections should also be reduced. They are currently too wide and allow for 45 degrees right turns instead of 90 degrees right turns. This particular aspect causes congestion, hazardous conditions and accidents.
 
 Moreover, the corridor lanes, railings or walls are not aligned. For example, at Hyatt, Ramwadi, one side has 2.5 lanes, while the opposite side of   has eight lanes. Also, the damaged bollards have not been repaired because of which merge-ins/mergeouts are not clearly defined.
 
 Public outreach programme was conducted late, only after more than 75% of the project was underway. Because the outreach was so poor, people are still not aware of the need for exclusive use of the segregated BRTS lanes. As a result, they intrude into the lanes and accidents are caused.
 
 Ultimately, all officers at the ULB, state and Centre level, as well as the elected representatives, are responsible for this failed project.
 
 The writer is a member of Nagrik Chetna Manch
 
