VADODARA: It was a sizzling Sunday for Barodians as the city recorded its hottest day this summer. The mercury levels touched 43.4 degree Celsius showing no mercy for the  . 

 
 
 Even the lowest temperature recorded at 29.4 degree Celsius was two degrees above the normal, the highest in the last 10 years. On May 20, the minimum temperature was recorded at 28.6 degree Celsius. 
 
 According to the weathermen, there is no respite from the heat wave sweeping the state and the temperature in the city will continue to be above 42 degree Celsius for the next week while the minimum temperature will hover around 28 degree Celsius. “We had decided for a family outing on Sunday but looking at the heat, we decided to cancel it. It has become impossible to stay home without air conditioner,” said  , a resident of Manjalpur.
 
 Despite being a Sunday, the city roads wore a deserted look in the evenings as well. Citizens ventured out only after the sun went down. The ice-cream joints, ice-gola centres and juice stalls witnessed rush till late in the night. The 108 emergency services have been receiving dozens of cases of heat-strokes, abdominal pain and high BP every day.
 
 Blistering conditions prevailed across the state as seven towns recorded maximum temperatures above the 44°C mark on Sunday. Ahmedabad city too recorded the season’s highest 44.8°C, crossing the 44°C mark for the second time in last ten days. Kandla airport, one of the 23 stations monitored by the Met department, was the hottest place in the state for the second day in a row, recording a maximum temperature of 46.3°C on Sunday. Deesa town in Banaskantha district was the second hottest place at 45.8°C.
 
 Maximum temperature of the city may touch 45°C on Monday. 
 
 A severe heatwave prevails in North  , Central Gujarat, Saurashtra and Kutch, an official statement by the India Meteorological Department ( ) said. 
 
 Jayanta Sarkar, director of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Gujarat, said,“There was a heatwave all across Gujarat and extreme condition is expected to prevail on Monday too . Heatwave conditions will continue to prevail in north Gujarat, central Gujarat and Saurashtra-Kutch regions on Monday,” he said.
 
 “Some respite can be expected from Tuesday as maximum temperature may drop to one or two degrees as winds pattern will change from south-westerly to westerly. Besides, the monsoon will also set in Kerala in some days, so the winds blowing from south-westerly direction will bring moisture to the state to provide a bit of respite,” added Sarkar.
 
 
