Hubballi: A long pending demand of the people of   district and tourists from across the state is getting fulfilled as a direct flight service from   (Ballari) to Bengaluru will start on March 1. The direct flight is expected to boost growth of industries and tourism in the district.

 A Hyderabad-based private operator is starting the service under   ( ) scheme which offers affordable air tickets to flyers. Sources said the flight will depart   at 2.10pm and arrive in   in Bengaluru at 3.10pm. It will depart from Bengaluru at 3.35pm and arrive in Vidyanagar at 4.35pm. 
 
 The business community and tourists expressed happiness over the start of flight service to Bengaluru. Ballari District Chamber of Commerce and Industry vice-president B Maha Rudra Gowda told TOI that the direct flight to Bengaluru will help the business community commute faster. “It is a boon to industries in the district. It takes six hours to reach Bengaluru by car. It takes much longer if we are caught in traffic. The flight to Bengaluru will reduce journey time,” he said.
 
 District Industries Centre joint director Manjunath Gowda said the flight service will be an added advantage. “Business folk find it easy to commute between cities, and it saves time significantly. About 29 companies have signed MoUs to invest about Rs 67,426crore in Ballari district. They may find the direct flight from Vidyanagar to Bengaluru useful,” he added. 
 
 Tourism is expected to grow with the introduction of flight service to Bengaluru. “Hampi, which is a Unesco heritage site, will attract more tourists from Bengaluru and other parts of the country and abroad, thanks to the new service. Tourists will be able to reach Vidyanagar more easily. We hope that wildlife tourism will also improve in the district,” said Shivaraj K, a private company employee in Ballari. 
 
 Tourism department sources said the Daroji Sloth Bear Sanctuary, Atal Zoological Park, Hampi, and Tungabhadra dam will attract more tourists, thanks to the direct flight to Bengaluru. It may be recalled that in September last year, flight service to Hyderabad was started from Vidyanagar under the UDAN scheme.
 
 
