LUDHIANA: Despite strong opposition by different school associations,   went ahead with its decision to make government institutes examination centres for private schools. 
 
 On Wednesday, the PSEB exams for Class XII began with English paper. Though the examinees were accommodated well, students of government schools had to attend classes in the open sitting on the floor due to shortage of classrooms and desks. 
  
 This year, the board announced abolishing of self-centre system (under which students have examination centres in their own schools) and said private schools would have centres at government schools. 
  
 Associations of private schools had opposed the decision, saying the government schools did not have proper facilities to conduct exams. The state private schools’ association had shut institutes across Punjab following an agitation, after which the education department assured that required facilities would be provided to the students. 
  
 A school principal, said secretary, education, Krishan Kumar issued directions to the schools to arrange desks and allowed them to use the institute’s funds for the purpose. Government Senior Secondary School, Division Number 3, used Rs 59,000 to buy 80 dual desks for the exams. 
  
 The TOI reporter visited different schools and found how students of primary classes were forced to suffer as their desks were being used by examinees. 
  
 Government High School, Bhamiya Kalan, which has six classrooms and 269 students, was made examination centre of 117 students of private schools. Due to the shortage of classrooms, many desks were set up in the corridor. 
  
 School head Amarjeet Kaur said, “We are already short of classrooms and desks. When I received a letter, saying the school has been made an examination centre, I immediately reported to the district education office, expressing helplessness due to shortage of infrastructure, but got no response. Then I borrowed 70 desks from Government Primary School, Bhamiya Kalan. I have also combined classes to meet space shortage.” 
  
 At Government Primary School, Bhamiya Kalan, students were seen sitting on mats as their desks were used by the high school for exams. 
  
 Similar was the situation at Government High School, Haibowal Kalan, where about 525 enrolled students were attending classes in the open as all 13 classrooms were used by examinees. A schoolteacher said the institute was made examination centre for 376 students and they had to borrow 100 desks from Government Primary School, Haibowal Kalan. 
  
  
