THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The assembly session, on Tuesday, was adjourned after convening for just over an hour rushing through proceedings, following protest by members of the opposition. 

 The opposition demanded that the question hour should be suspended and the assembly should discuss the murder of   Safeer at Mannarkkad in  , which speaker   declined. This prompted the legislators to disrupt the question hour by shouting slogans and trying to block the view of the speaker by raising banners and placards, forcing the speaker to temporarily suspend the question hour. After discussions with the ruling front and opposition, the question hour was restarted only to witness the protests again.
 
 The speaker cancelled the remaining questions and decided to initiate the business for the day. Though Mannarkkad MLA M Shamsuddeen sought leave for adjournment motion over the murder, the speaker declined to give permission, which further provoked the opposition. The opposition members began shouting slogans against the speaker, calling him an agent of the ruling front.
 
 On many occasions, the MLAs from the ruling front reacted to the opposition leading to heated exchange of words. Amid the sloganeering by opposition legislators, the speaker rushed through the proceedings, and referred two bills - Kerala Cooperative Societies (Amendment) Bill, 2018 and   (Amendment) Bill, 2018 - for the consideration of the subject committee. The Kerala Appropriation Bill, 2018, was also introduced and passed by the assembly without any discussions. The speaker then adjourned the proceedings for the day.
 
 Later, the opposition criticised the speaker's action of introducing and passing the appropriation bill in advance as the scheduled time for the same was 12.30pm. "It is a serious error from the part of the speaker," opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said.
 
 On Monday too, the assembly proceedings had to be rushed through and completed amid sloganeering by the opposition over the murder of Youth Congress activist Shuhaib at Mattannur in Kannur. After convening on Wednesday, the assembly will take a break of four days.
 
 
