PUNE: Doctors at the state-run   successfully performed a living donor   on Wednesday where a 63-year-old man donated the  .

 This is claimed to be the first living   successfully carried out at a government medical college attached hospital in Maharashtra. In the past, doctors at Sassoon hospital carried out three cadaver kidney transplant in which relatives of brain-dead patients had donated kidneys for transplants.
 
 “The surgery has been successful. Both the donor and recipient are stable. We did the living donor kidney transplant under the state government’s Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. Therefore, the transplant didn’t cost the family anything. Otherwise, people have to pay Rs 10-15 lakh at a private hospital for such a procedure,” senior spine surgeon Ajay Chandanwale, Sassoon hospital's dean, told TOI.
 
 Both the father and son are farmers and hail from village Gondgaon in Gevrai taluka of Beed district. “The son suffered failure of both the kidneys about six months ago and had been on dialysis since November last year. Kidney transplant was the only option left for him,” hospital’s urologist Sachin Bhujbal said.
 
 Nephrologists Abhay Sadre, Niranjan Ambekar, Amit Bhangale, urologists Suresh Patankar, Bhalchandra Kashyapi, Rajesh Shrotri and Sachin Bhujbal, anesthetists Sanyogita Naik and Yogesh Gavali with vascular surgeon Dhanesh Kamerkar carried out the surgery.
 
 Ambekar said, “Pune’s first living donor kidney transplant took place at Ruby Hall Clinic in July 1988. The first cadaver kidney transplant also took place at Ruby Hall Clinic in April 1997. Sassoon hospital doing cadaver and now living donor kidney transplant is a remarkable feat as it offers hopes to thousands of needy patients who cannot afford to undergo the life-saving procedure at private hospitals.” 
 
 Living-donor kidney transplant
 
 Living-donor kidney transplant is the removal of the organ from a living donor and transplanting it into a person whose kidneys no longer function properly
 
 Only one kidney is needed to replace two failed kidneys, which makes living-donor kidney transplant an alternative to deceased-donor kidney transplant
 
 (Source: Sassoon Hospital, Pune)
 
 
