COIMBATORE: If a need arises to put more pressure on the Centre to form Cauvery Management Board, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) would join with other political parties on the same platform to protest against the central government, said   leader TTV Dhinakaran here on Wednesday.

 He said the Bharatiya Janata Party at the Centre was neglecting Tamil people in several ways, forcing them to resort to protest on the streets. “The move of political parties to show black flags to Prime Minister   is not wrong given how the Centre treats Tamil Nadu with a big brother attitude,” he said. Dhinakaran was speaking to reporters in the city on Wednesday.
 
 He said the police had acted too harshly on those who had protested against the Centre for not forming the Cauvery Management Board (CMB). “The state government claims it is Amma’s (Jayalalithaa’s) government. If so, it should have stopped the IPL matches. Instead, they unleashed violence on protesters,” he said. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s government was solely responsible for the violence, he added.
 
 Reacting to actor Rajinikanth’s tweet condemning a protester’s attack on a policeman, Dhinakaran said   was wrong to judge the incident just by seeing portion of the video clip. “The protester seems like a well-educated youngster. The police had provoked people to act in such a violent manner,” he said. 
 
 He said the manner in which protesters and people from the Tamil film industry were treated was condemnable. “They have filed an attempt to murder case on Seeman. This government files cases on people who protest peacefully. This shows its weakness,” he said.
 
 Responding to EPS’s comment that Dhinakaran was trying hard to prove that he was Jayalalithaa’s political heir, he said, “The people of Amma’s constituency R K Nagar have chosen me as their candidate. EPS might be speaking out of fear.”
 
 Dhinakaran added that the current state government was running solely because of the Madras high court’s stay order on the petitions of the 18 rebel MLAs challenging their disqualification. “If the MLAs come back and there is a vote of confidence in the state assembly, we would win and bring back Amma’s rule,” he added.
 
 
