Jaipur: It’s the moment former assistant forester Shiv Chand Bohara (60) had been awaiting for 20 years. He was part of a team that collected samples, gave regular testimonies in the court and doggedly pursued the case which eventually led to megastar Salman Khan’s conviction in the blackbuck poaching case.

 Now retired and settled in Banswara where he runs an eatery, Bohara is elated by the judgment. “It took 20 years, but the deer finally managed to hunt the tiger (Salman),” he told TOI over phone on Friday.
 
 Recalling the early days of the case, he said that on October 7, 1998, the then Jodhpur DFO, Mangilal, appointed ACF Lalit Bohara to look into the case. “I worked with Lalitji. We went to Bhawad and camped there for the entire night and stumbled across samples of blood on sand, and hairs of ‘chinkara’. We collected the samples from the spot and matched it with the hairs found on Salman’s Gypsy and they turned out to be same,” he said.
 
 The team also faced several roadblocks. For instance, the postmortem report of the animal threw up a challenge. “The first postmortem report was delayed for 10 days and when the report finally came, the cause of death was stated to be overeating. We did not believe it and took the samples to another lab in Hyderabad, which confirmed our suspicion about the poaching,” he said.
 
 Recalling the interaction he had with the Bollywood star, Bohara said that Salman’s charisma and influence did not deter him from the course of their investigation. “I recall one time when Salman got a bit agitated with us. He told us that nothing can happen to him but we told him to calm down. Initially, he was reluctant to cooperate,” he said.
 
 Bohara attended all court trials to give his testimony, and was also a witness in the arms case. Apart from shuttling between Jodhpur and Hyderabad with samples, Bohara also visited Salman’s house in Mumbai to hand over a notice.
 
 “Salman’s friend delivered his firearms which were sealed in front of me and I became witness in that case,” he said.
 
 “I have to say that his influence just didn’t work on us. At one time, he had almost admitted to the crime, but his lawyers intervened and he backtracked,” he said.
 
 The forest department is now planning to honour people like Bohra who stood their ground in the case. Additional principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden G V Reddy said that the department was collecting a comprehensive list of the people who took the case to its logical end. “There are people like Lalit Bohara and others who did not yield. We will recommend their names,” he said.
 
 
