VADODARA : As many as 4,000 pathological laboratories are operating illegally in   at present, according to the   and Microbiologists (GAPM) said this on Sunday. 

 According to the association, the   in December last year had upheld the Gujarat High Court’s order which had directed that only a qualified and registered pathologist with a postgraduate qualification in pathology can countersign the pathology report of any patient. The SC verdict had emphasised that pathology labs that operate without a qualified pathologist will have to stop all operations till a qualified pathologist is employed by them.
 
 GAPM office-bearers said that after the order of the apex court, the association has submitted complaint regarding 470 such illegal laboratories in the state with details of their names, their addresses and the reports prepared by them as evidence. 
 
 “But neither the state government, nor the state’s health department nor the police department has taken action against such laboratories which are putting health of citizens of the state at risk,” said GAPM’s president Dr Rajendra Lalani. 
 
  
 Of the total 470 such illegal labs that the association has brought to the notice of the state government, the maximum number of such labs are operating in Surat. “We had submitted complaint against 67 such labs running in Surat on December 30 and provided a list of another 61 labs on January 20,” he said.
 
 As per the order of the  , simple MSc degree holders, PhDs and lab technicians, who do not meet the mentioned eligibility criteria cannot be allowed to sign and issue lab reports. 
 
 “The difference between a MD and those running such labs by holding certificate in medical laboratory technology (CMLT) and medical laboratory technology (MLT) which are not recognised by the Medical Council of India is similar to the difference between a mason and an architect,” said Lalani, adding that the association has submitted evidence before the director general of police, Gujarat. 
 
 “As per the provisions of the Gujarat Medical Practitioner Act, 1963, running such labs is a cognizable offence and the police is supposed to register an FIR within seven days of receiving a complaint. We have made presentations regarding this racket before Gujarat chief minister, health minister and health secretary but we fail to understand why the state government is not ready to act against the culprits,” he said. 
 
 The association office-bearers said that pathology is judge in the field of medicine. If unqualified people certify medical reports, it will hamper patient treatment as a doctor’s analysis and patient’s treatment is dependent on clinical tests.
 
 
