AHMEDABAD: Suresh Makwana, 48 lived a dual life. For residents of   in Vejalpur he was a businessman who owned a restaurant in Bagodra and was a DJ provider, but in the police records Makwana was a notorious burglar, who had been held several times for house break-ins.

 Police sources said that Makwana’s neighbours remained unaware of his criminal history as whenever he spent time behind bars, he spread the word that he was out of city on a business tour. His frequent absences from his residence thus did not raise any eyebrows.
 
 “He used to get bail and return home. Then he and his son used to get busy with their legal business during the day, while Makwana ventured out during night to commit burglaries in his white MUV, armed with a screwdriver and a wooden log,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
 The official added, “He used to burgle vacant and locked houses which he recced beforehand.”
 
 On Saturday night, when Makwana and his accomplish Prakash Soni — a jeweller who lived in the same society in Vejalpur, set out with stolen gold jewellery to melt it in Soni’s workshop, little did they know that their life of crime will be exposed.
 
 Inspector JN   and   intercepted Makwana’s white MUV near flower market at Jamalpur. “On checking his vehicle, we found gold and diamond jewellery worth Rs 13 lakh and $3,650 in US dollars. We knew then we had a suspect,” said inspector Chavda.
 
 Crime branch officials said they brought Makwana to the crime branch office along with Prakash Soni for questioning. “During his interrogation it came to light that Makwana was a notorious burglar, arrested several times earlier and that the jewellery and US dollars found from his possession were in-fact stolen from a bungalow in Asopalav Bungalows in Thaltej during the intervening night of February 21 and 22,” said a crime branch official.
 
 Prakash Soni, who was arrested with Makwana, is a jeweller and used to buy stolen jewellery from him. “Soni used to melt the gold jewellery and convert them into gold ingots,” inspector Chavda added.
 
 
