PATNA: A DEMU passenger train’s coach derailed near Piprahan Halt on the Narkatiaganj-Muzaffarpur section of Samastipur division under the East Central   (ECR) on Tuesday evening. None of the passengers was injured and normal railway traffic on the section was restored at 11.45pm the same day.

 ECR’s chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar said on Wednesday an accident relief train was rushed to the site at 6.50pm. “The track restoration work started around 7pm and the track was cleared at 11.15pm,” he said, adding the stranded passenger trains started moving on the tracks after 11.45pm. 
 
 While four local passenger trains remained stranded at different stations of the division, long-distance passenger trains were detained at Chakia, Semra, Pipra, Samastipur and Muzaffarpur stations for about five hours.
 
 The stranded trains included Raxaul-Howrah Mithila Express, Narkatiaganj-Muzaffarpur Express, Sapt Kranti Express, Darbhanga-Amritsar Jan Nayak Express and Pataliputra-Narkatiganj Express.
 
 Railways sources said though the exact reason of the derailment was yet to be ascertained, it prima facie appeared to be a case of fault in the tracks. “A departmental probe into the incident will be initiated,” Kumar said.
 
 Meanwhile, the railways will run two pairs of special trains during the peak summer season. While a weekly Hyderabad-Raxaul Express (07005/07006 ) train will run from April 5 to June 28, another biweekly Secunderabad- Darbhanga special train (07007/07008) will run from April 3 to June 30.
 
 The Hyderabad-Raxaul special train will leave Hyderabad at 9.30pm every Thursday and reach Raxaul at 5.30pm on Saturday. On its return journey, it will leave Raxaul at 1.30pm every Sunday and reach Hyderabad at 11.15pm on Monday.
 
 The Secunderabad-Darbhanga special train will leave Secunderabad at 10pm every Tuesday and Saturday and Darbhanga at 5am every Friday and Tuesday. 
 
 These special trains will have the load combination of AC, sleeper and general coaches.
 
 
