NEW DELHI: Hundreds of Delhiites joined scores of students from various   for a   at   on Sunday to mark the  . The event, flagged off by vice-president Venkaiah Naidu, was organised by the New Delhi Municipal Council in collaboration with Smart Mobility and World Cycling Alliance.

 
 
  
 
 While there was a lot of enthusiasm, many participants rued the lack of basic infrastructure in the capital to promote cycling as a healthy, environment-friendly habit. “In Lutyens’ Delhi, people can use cycle as a mode of transport, but what about other parts of the city? Unlike in many other cities in the world, there are no dedicated lanes for cycling here,” Subhojit Sen, a cycle enthusiast from Jor Bagh, said. He added that the government needed to focus on improving the quality of roads and the traffic management system if people were to be encouraged to not rely on cars all the time.
 
 The event started from Charkha Museum at Connaught Place and concluded at Shivaji Stadium. At every kilometre, drinking water and medical facilities were provided in light of the severe heat. Inaugurating the event, Naidu said cycling was the best form of exercise and people must be encouraged to adopt this environment-friendly mode of transport. Applauding the efforts of NDMC, he said: “The campaign to promote use of bicycles must be taken up by every city and it should not be confined to a mere ritualistic exercise only to mark the World Bicycle Day.” 
 
 Union environment minister Harsh Vardhan appreciated NDMC’s efforts towards pollution control “by adopting modern and low-price technology solutions”. 
 
 NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar said the council’s public bike-sharing system would have around 500 cycles spread over 50 stations in the New Delhi area. These bikes will be equipped with app-based integrated GPS tracking and a smart-locking system. “The cycle will automatically get locked if taken out of the   area. A cyclist can use the facility by registering on the NDMC 311 app and use the touch pad on the back of the cycle to unlock it through an OTP. The app-based system will record the time when the bike is unlocked and the user will be charged a fee accordingly,” Kumar said.
 
 A dense network of bike stations at potential points, such as metro stations, bus stands, markets, office complexes, institutions, tourist destinations, parks and residential areas, will be created. The bike-sharing facility will be available at Rs 10 for 30 minutes, up to a maximum Rs 300 for eight hours. A weekly subscription can be availed of at Rs 199 apart from a yearly pass of Rs 1,999. 
 
 
