Oh! They could have bought that player’, ‘The team lacks young guns’, ‘Will Dhoni turn things around?’ These were the whispers doing the rounds before the start of the   season. But there has not been an iota of doubt about CSK’s calibre ever since they won the first league match against Mumbai. And of course, fans and experts agree upon the fact that captain cool Dhoni has turned things around again, despite all odds, including the situation that led the team’s matches being forced out of Chennai; they had to quickly adapt to a new home ground in Pune. Here’s what the fans and experts have to say about the team as they go into the semis today... 

 
 My prediction is a Chennai vs Kolkata final. Intellectually, Chennai is the best team. I’d say the selectors did a good job by putting such a team together. Of course, fitness matters, but if a player like Dhoni is going to hit all the balls to the stands, it doesn’t matter even if the opposition has the best and fittest fielders. It’s Dhoni’s muscles power that’s winning the matches for the team. Take the example of Gayle, he can’t move two inches also, but it’s because of him that this format has become so popular. So, players who score runs by hitting sixes have made this format what it is today. Also, all the eleven players in Chennai team are innovative. And Dhoni is ready to experiment, so, that helps the team stand out from the rest. To put it straight, Dhoni is known for his sixer sense and sixth sense.
 — Bosskey, cricket expert
 
 
 
 Both the teams have been doing really well. But what’s creditable is the way the Chennai has bounced back after a two-year gap. I guess it would have been tough for any other team. Kudos to Dhoni for the way he has led the team. Also, the way the he’s batting now, it reminds me of the old Dhoni in the 2011 World Cup. It’s good for Team India as well. Indirectly, we must thank Dinesh Karthik for that sixer (in Nidahas Trophy final). After that I think the sleeping tiger in Dhoni has woken up (chuckles). It’s good to have some kind of competition. Another good thing about Chennai going into semis today is that they are more used playing in big stages than any other team. Hopefully, Rayudu should give a good start and Dhoni should also bat up the order in today’s match. 
 — Sadagoppan Ramesh, former cricketer
 
 
 
 Chennai is a well-set team and it has been very consistent through the tournament. The batting unit is doing exceptionally well, with Ambati Rayudu leading the way. Despite being a side with many of them above 30, they are all quite fit. Many people don’t realise that professionals work hard on fitness. Also, most of them are safe fielders, and there are also some exceptional fielders like Jadeja, Raina, Bravo, du Plessis. They are not the kind who will put easy catches down. Because of their experience, they are able to handle pressure, despite change in venue for home matches. About today’s match, Hyderabad is a good team, but the Wankhede pitch is going to be batting-friendly. Chennai is good in chasing, and therefore, if we win the toss, we should definitely chase. 
 — L Sivaramakrishnan, former Indian cricketer
 
 
 
 The key thing is that we’ve to improve in the slog overs. In all the matches that we lost, we gave away a lot of runs in the death overs. On the other hand, batting is definitely the key for the Chennai team. If Watson and Rayudu give a good start and then, either Dhoni or Raina take it over from the 15th over, we will surely make things difficult for Hyderabad. Also, since we’ve done well against Hyderabad in the league matches, we’ll have a lot of confidence. 
 — Vikranth, actor and cricket fan
 
 
 
 I truly believe that the team completely lived up to the anthem Gethu Maamu, which I made for them. And undoubtedly, all credit goes to Dhoni. I’m sure every single player in the team will agree with me. His captaincy is such that he gives freedom to the players and doesn’t let them get bogged down by stress. Though they’ve lost a few matches which they could have won, as a unit, another good thing is that they pull up their socks when it really matters. And I am sure about the team lifting the cup again. 
 — Kumar Narayanan Ramanathan, composer and cricket buff
 
