NAGPUR: “Forty types of cancers can directly be linked to obesity,” said noted bariatric surgeon Dr Muffazal   from Saifee Hospital, Mumbai, at the 51st annual conference of the Academy of Medical Sciences. 

 He was delivering this year’s Dr Warhadpande oration, where he threw light upon the subject ‘Bariatric surgery: Past, Present and Future.’ Consultant endocrinologist Dr Shehla Sheikh, also from Saifee hospital followed it up with a talk on ‘Bariatric surgery pre-op, intra-op, and post-op management — a Physician’s perspective.’ The conference, hosted on Sunday at Hotel Centre Point, Ramdaspeth, focused on obesity surgery.
 
 Lakdawala termed obesity as excess fat storage as a result of genetics, human physiology and psycho-social factors. “Hormonal causes of obesity is found in five per cent of the patients,” he said, adding that the main cause of obesity is more food intake than output, and showed how the number of obese people all over the world is gradually increasing with passing years. “We live in a McDonald generation, and obesity is the biggest form of terror taking over America. We fail to realize that every six seconds, someone dies of  . It is a vicious epidemic that caused over 5.1 million deaths in India in 2013.”
 
 He said that our lifestyle leads us to the path of obesity. “In India, we are used to fat people. Even in our mythology, Kumbhkarna and Ganesha are shown to be fat. We are used to see our Gods being obese,” said Lakdawala. Obesity is not a problem of wither will power or compliance. Rather, it was a physiological problem which was possible to solve through the help of bariatric surgery. Lakdawala gave a short summary of the evolution of bariatric surgery and threw light upon few popular theories put forth in this regard.
 
 The conference was inaugurated Lakdawala, Sheikh, AMS President Dr Pramod Gandhi and secretary Dr Rajesh Atal, conference chairman Dr Prakash Khetan, Diabetes Association of India President Dr P P Joshi and its secretary Dr  . It was hosted in association with Diabetes Association of India and Association of Surgeons of Nagpur.
 
 Outstanding Young Achiever’s award for the year was presented to Dr Swapnil Deshpande, who specializes in minimally invasive cardiac surgery, and has performed over 600 cardiovascular surgeries. Professional Excellence Award was presented to Dr Alok Ghosh, department of Anesthesiology at   in Sawangi, Wardha. 
 
 In the afternoon, a live bariatric surgery workshop was conducted at Government Medical college. Two cases comprising patients weighing 150kg and 127kg were handled by Dr Lakdawala and head of surgery department of GMCH Dr Raj Gajbhiye free of cost. Inaugurated by GMCH dean A Niswade and Dr Harish Warbhe, nearly 100 delegates were witness to the surgeries. 
 
 
