PANAJI: Calangute   and North Goa Planning and Development Authority of Goa (NGPDA) chairperson   said that the Outline Development Plan (ODP) for Calangute,   and parts of Parra will be ready within three months’ time.

 Addressing a press conference on Monday, Lobo said that as the draft plan has been kept open for 60 days, it will be closed on April 15. “After this, we will need at least one month to finalise the plan,” he said.
 
 “We have proposed 8 lakh sqm of land for building various kinds of public utilities. Regional Plan (RP) 2001 has not reserved land for such purposes in Goa’s tourist hotspot and we don’t know when the new RP will be ready,” said the   MLA.
 
 Lobo said that the NGPDA has collaborated with the village comunidades of Calangute and Candolim for land which will be utilized for building public utilities.
 
 “There is no land left in Calangute and Candolim. We have requested the comunidades to part with their land,” said Lobo, adding that the draft plan is an answer to use the scarce resource to build tourist infrastructure and other facilities for local residents.
 
 The ODP, Lobo said, has provided to build a transport zone that would facilitate parking for outstation vehicles away from the beach. “There is no place to park vehicles close to the beach,” said Lobo.
 
 The plan provides for building a children’s park, sewage treatment facility, animal shelter, water harvesting facility, a state-of-the-art community hall as well as a market that will also have space to accommodate offices. An electricity sub-station has also been proposed as well as a new road, the MLA added.
 
 To a question, Lobo said while the plan has been left open for public suggestions and objections, the process couldn’t be completed on an earlier occasion as it coincided with the election code of conduct.
 
 The draft ODP was challenged before the high court of Bombay at Goa by local residents. Lobo said that he would proceed with the process as the court has given them a go-ahead to prepare the ODP.
 
 
