Music director and composer  , who has earlier composed music for films 'Laali Ki Shaadi Mein Laaddoo Deewana',' Bollywood Diaries', 'Wah Taj' and 'Laal Rang', was in the city a few weeks ago for a private event. Vipin, who was born in a village near Gorakhpur, talked with us about his upcoming film ' ', in which he has three compositions and has also scored the background score, his love for folk music and more.
While in the city, Vipin visited  , his alma mater, and a place which holds great importance in his life. "There was a time when I used to lie to my parents that for studies I have to take a short trip to Lucknow. I used to come to my aunt’s house, who lives in the Rakabganj area, and then take a bike and come to   just to see the building of Bhatkhande, dreaming of getting admission there someday. And one day luckily, I made a friend there who helped me get admission into the institute," says Vipin who went on to do Vishaarad through correspondence from the institute. "It was like a dream come true for me. I have some amazing memories of this place," adds Vipin, who later also did MA in Music and then MPhil from Delhi University. 
 
  
  Vipin Patwa at Bhatkhande Music Institute, Qaiserbagh (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
  
 Telling us more about the impact the institute has had on his life, Vipin says, "When you come from a small village, everything looks big to you. Lucknow was also one such place and Bhatkhande was the place which was out of bounds for me at that time. Bhatkhande served as a launch pad for my career and gave me immense confidence to reach where I am today."
 Having a penchant for folk music, Vipin in an earlier interview, was quoted as saying, “It is the purest form of music, so it will never go out of vogue. Songs like 'Banno Tera Swagger' and ' ' have folk elements. It sounds good to the ears as one doesn’t need to put in a lot of effort to understand such songs.” Interestingly, Vipin also made actor   rap in Haryanvi in the film 'Laal Rang'. "The problem lies with us, we are today very distant from the Hindi language. Folk music is so good and rich here in UP, especially, but it is presented in a way where we feel shameful in listening to it. I have a very soft corner for UP's folk music. I want the image of the state to be upgraded when it comes to music. I would like to promote UP's folk music in some way or the other and one way is definitely to bring that music into my films."
 Calling the music of his latest film 'Daas Dev' a contemporary progressive, Vipin says, "Though the film is a political drama based on UP, the music is not entirely based on UP folk. I was given Bulleh Shah’s poetry and many other Pakistan shayars to take a cue from. So since the name of the movie has been flipped, the music of the movie was also given the same treatment. But having said that, jo khusboo hai iski music mein woh UP folk ki hi hai. The music of this film is not typically folk but more of Punjabi folk. I wish to promote the folk music of our state, and soon will do something about it. Perhaps in my next project," he says with a touch of hope. 
 — Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
