BHOPAL: The state BJP on Tuesday announced its candidates for Kolaras and Mungaoli bypolls, two days after   announced theirs.

 BJP state president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan said the names of Baisaab Yadav for Mungaoli and Devendra Jain for Kolaras have been forwarded to the party’s central election committee for approval. “We have selected one name each for the bypoll in after detailed consideration,” Chauhan told reporters at the party's state HQ.
 
 The decision to choose one name for each constituency was taken unanimously by the party leaders, he added. After approval from the party central leadership, the candidates will file nominations for the bypoll, he added.
 
 Congress candidates Brajendra Singh Yadav and Mahendra Singh Yadav will file their nominations on Wednesday in the presence of state in-charge Deepak Babaria and senior leaders  , Jyotiraditya Scindia and Arun Yadav. So, it’s Yadav vs Yadav in Mungaoli and Devendra Jain vs Mahendra in Kolaras.
 
 Earlier, BJP leaders met chief minister   at his residence to discuss the probables for the bypoll. Apart from the state BJP chief, MP organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat and other leaders were present at the meeting after which the names were declared.
 
 Baisaab Yadav is the wife of former MLA, late Rao Deshraj Singh Yadav, who had significant following in the region despite the clout of Scindia. BJP will be banking non her to corner a major chunk of Yadav votes.
 
 In Kolaras, BJP had three claimants including former MLA Virendra Singh Raghuvanshi, but the party banked on its former MLA, Devendra Jain. One of the factors that went against Raghuvanshi was that he is active in Shivpuri rather than Kolaras.
 
 Sources said that the party might give him another opportunity in the assembly polls in November this year.
 
 Bypolls were necessitated due to the death of sitting Congress MLAs Mahendra Singh Kalukheda (Mungaoli) and   (Kolaras). The two seats are part of Guna   constituency, represented by Congress MP Jyotiraditya Scindia.
 
 Buoyed by the Chitrakoot victory and recent civic poll results, Congress is raring to take on BJP to retain both seats. Voting is on February 24 and the results will be declared onFebruary 28.
 
