NEW DELHI: A   ordered an   through an etailer. Instead, he received a cheaper  . When the police dug deep into the matter, they found a whole  . 

 An executive of the etail firm registered a complaint with   station and said they received a complaint from one Rakshit who had received a Chinese phone and not the one he had placed an order for. After receiving the complaint, the company officials had interrogated the delivery person, Dhananjay Gupta. 
 
 Rakshit had said in his complaint that he had received the phone wrapped in multiple layers of bubble wrap, which he thought was quite unusual. He grew suspicious and opened the package in Gupta’s presence. When he complained that it was not the phone he had ordered, Gupta said he had no idea and left. That was on Saturday. 
 
 The company executive told police that the packaged was changed midway when Gupta was sent out to deliver it. 
 
 DCP (central) Mandeep Singh Randhawa said a case was registered under Sections 408, 411 and 34 of Indian Penal Code at the Karol Bagh police station and Gupta was arrested. Police said he accepted that he was part of the racket for over a year after coming in contact with the owner of a cellphone store in China market of Karol Bagh. Police said Gupta was part of a gang whose members worked as delivery boys at various etail companies and changed handsets before delivery. The original ones were later sold off. They had cheated many people worth lakhs of rupees in the last one year, police said. 
 
 Gupta said he was promised handsome returns. He said he used to pick up consignments from warehouses and head to the phone shop where the handsets were interchanged with either old Chinese phones or detergent cakes. 
 
 A senior police officer said that the cellphones used by the accused were also those stolen from consignments. The etail company said it was losing its credibility after several such complaints and failing to track the missing phones. 
 
 Eight other people have been named in the complaint, some of whom have been detained while the rest are absconding. 
 
 
