NEW DELHI:   chairman   on Thursday said investments in stock markets remain lucrative despite the imposition of a “concessional” long-term capital gains tax, along with a securities transaction tax, and the burden can easily be absorbed given the “substantial gains”.

 At the same time, he said the government had built in suitable safeguards to protect the interest of small investors and others by “grandfathering” investments made up to January 31.
 
 “Long-term gains were exempted for so many years and around Rs 3.67 lakh crore long term capital gains were shown in returns last year, which was tax free. There was a bias against manufacturing as people may have preferred to go for market investments. Plus, the assets were being differentiated because on immovable property you were paying capital gains tax after two years.... When gains are quite substantial in the market, 10% can surely be absorbed,”   told TOI in an interview.
 
 At the same time, he suggested that the government had taken care of the interests of a wide section of taxpayers without adding significantly to the burden through an additional 1% cess. “The cess is on the tax and not on the income. If your tax is Rs 1 lakh, your liability will go up by only Rs 1,000. So, not much will be taken away,” Chandra said.
 
 The chief of the income tax department said the benefit of the Rs 40,000 standard deduction will be available to a wider set of individuals, including pensioners and junior employees who may not be getting the annual transport and medical allowance that adds up to over Rs 34,000. “Everyone is not getting transport allowance of Rs 19,200 and everyone is not getting medical allowance of Rs 15,000. Now, there is no need for producing bills, fake or otherwise. There is clear standard deduction of Rs 40,000. Many people like pensioners were not getting it. There will be some benefit for everyone,” he said.
 
 Chandra added that benefits had been offered to 2.5 crore salaried employees, lakhs of senior citizens as well as MSMEs by way of 25% tax on income up to Rs 250 crore.
 
 Asked if sufficient steps had been taken to widen the tax base, the CBDT chief said that a number of steps had been taken over the last few years, including simplified returns. “We need to strike a balance. We are widening the tax base and we are also making efforts to deepen it. Now, we are getting intelligence from third-party reporting by banks, mutual funds and large establishments and we match it with the returns and based on risk analysis, we take up the case for scrutiny. If needed, we go for enforcement action,” he said.
 
