KOLKATA: April turned out to be unusually stormy in Kolkata this time. With eight thunderstorms and five squalls lashing the city, Kolkata hardly felt the   unlike previous years when the   past the 40 degree Celsius-mark repeatedly. In fact, Kolkata has not received so many squalls in April in at least five years, according to the Met office.

 
 The squalls — that struck Kolkata on April 1, 7, 17, 26 and 30 — ensured that the maximum temperature never crossed 37.6 degree Celsius during the month. In 2016, the city had experienced heat-wave like conditions in April with the mercury sailing past 40 degree Celsius on five days. Presence of moisture in the atmosphere, cyclonic circulations and heating
 
 of land in the   plateau area made the conditions favourable for repeated squalls, said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. “Unlike the previous years, these conditions formed repeatedly and persisted helping to precipitate repeated squalls. Also, we had as many eight thunderstorms, some of which were almost as strong as a squall and helped lower the temperature. It has indeed been a pleasant April,” said Das.
 
 In 2017, Kolkata received three squalls in April and six in May. There was no squall in April 2016, but the number had reached eight in May that year. It has been observed that the absence of squalls in April is often made up by more squalls in May, according to a weather scientist. “Generally, Kolkata receives more squalls in May. But April has been very dry and warm over the last four-five years. There was a significant change this time,” he said.
 
 A thunderstorm is termed a squall when it is accompanied by a wind speed of at least 45 km/hr which lasts for a minute. On April 17, Kolkata was lashed by twin squalls that had a peak wind speed of 98 km/hr. On April 26, the wind speed had touched 80 km/hr. “Since the conditions were favourable and cloud masses were tall, the squalls had a very high wind speed. They also had a significant impact on the temperature. The April 17 squall, for instance, pulled the mercury down by nine degrees,” said Das. A slump in the number of squalls in May is not being ruled out.
 
 “It might drop now, though there is nothing to suggest that it actually will. If we go by past records, there shouldn’t be too many squalls in May this time,” said Das.
 
 
