PATIALA: The bandh call given by the Dalits in protest against the dilution of provisions of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act passed off peacefully in Patiala, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib districts on Monday with security agencies maintaining high alert throughout the day.

 Life was thrown out of gear with most of the shopkeepers keeping their shutters down. Public transport kept off road to avoid any undue confrontation with protesters, who tried to disrupt the movement of trains on the Ambala-Patiala-Bathinda track. However, the security agencies soon forced them to move away from the train tracks and rail movement was finally restored. 
 
 A large number of Dalits had gathered near the inter-state bus terminal in Patiala and carried out a march towards the district administrative complex, where they handed over a memorandum to the DC. Similar exercises were also carried out by Dalits in Patiala, Samana, Rajpura, Nabha and Patran. Some Dalit groups gathered at the   in   and blocked the main road passing through the town for a few hours. Similar reports were also received from Malerkotla, Moonak, Dirba, Ahmedgarh, Sangrur, Sunam and  , where the protesters blocked the main roads for a few hours and held anti-Modi banners and raised slogans against Prime Minister   Modi-led   government at the Centre.
 
 There were also reports of stone pelting on one of the malls in Malerkotla, in which some window panes were shattered. Elaborate security arrangement had been put in place with security personnel taking out a flag march in several places. Most of the markets and city roads wore a deserted look. Fatehgarh Sahib and Sangrur SSPs said that no major untoward incidents were reported from anywhere in the three districts and the bandh passed off peacefully with security agencies keeping a close watch on the developments. 
 
 BOX: Indo-Pak bus halted from over 5 hours
 
 Due to the bandh call given by the Dalits, the authorities halted the Sada-e-Sarhad bus running between Delhi and Lahore at the floating restaurant near Sirhind in Fatehgarh Sahib district for over five-and-a-half hours as a precautionary measure. The district police provided additional forces to guard the bus against any possible attack by the protesters. It was only after the security agencies gave a clearance that the bus was allowed to continue on its run.
 
 
