PHAGWARA: Tension again gripped markets here on Tuesday afternoon when a shopkeeper at Bansaan Wala Bazaar opened his shop after several days. Immediately, some   activists came there and objected to it. They even asked him to close it.

 Some days back a complaint had been submitted against the shopkeeper by some Dalit activists regarding use of certain ‘casteist’ words by him. The matter was resolved, following which the shopkeeper opened his shop. But now with Dalits again objecting to it, other shopkeepers of the market also pulled downed their shutters in protest. Later, all main markets of the town closed down and shopkeepers staged a dharna on Banga Road near the city police station. 
 
 Some local leaders of the BJP and Congress and leaders of General Samaj Manch also joined the shopkeepers and started leading the agitation. Just after the dharna started some local leaders spoke against removing of names of seven Dalit activists from one FIR registered after the violent clash between right wing Hindu groups and Dalit activists on April 13 in which two Dalit activists sustained injuries. The development took place around the same time when SC Congress leaders, along with families of the injured, were meeting chief minister Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh and the latter conceded to their demands.
 
 The BJP leaders included mayor Arun Khosla, BJP mandal president Pankaj Chawla, former MC president Balbhadar Sen Duggal and former councillor Rakesh Duggal. Congress leaders who were present there at the protest site included Congress block president Sanjeev Bugga and district vice-president Satbir Singh Walia among others. A few protesters even threw bangles at   SP Parminder Singh Bhandal and also called Kapurthala DC and SSP cowards “who were acting in a partisan manner”.
 
 The dharna was continuing till late evening and the protesters were demanding arrest of Lok Insaaf Party leader Jarnail Nangal and Ambedkar Sena (Mool Niwasi) president Harbhajan Suman. They also demanded suspension of Phagwara ADC, SDM and SP, alleging that they failed to take action against Ambedkar Sena activists, who illegally installed a hoarding in Gol Chowk, which led to the clash. They alleged that the police did not arrest anybody from Dalit activists even as their names also figured in the FIR. Incidentally, on Tuesday, a dharna being staged in Valmiki Mohalla and a hunger strike being held by a Dalit activist Rajinder Ghera also ended.
 
