Ludhiana: As many as 12 people were challaned for   on New Year’s Eve. Two people were also kept in custody for an entire night for violating traffic norms. However, those who cooperated with police were arranged cabs at concession rates and were not challaned. The police arranged cabs for a total of 110 people.

 To stop drunken driving, the city police were on their toes on New Year’s Eve. A total of 1,500 cops were deployed on duty on the city roads. 33 patrolling parties were in-charge of surveillance. More than 100 checkpoints were built across the city to manage traffic, stop eve-teasing and drunken driving.
 
 In fact, the police had a tie-up with the cab service Uber. Under this initiative, the cabs were made available in five crowded areas like Sarabha Nagar market, Ghumar Mandi, Sutlej Club and outside three city malls located on Ludhiana-Ferozepur road near Old Session Court Chowk. The police had also established checkpoints there and drunken people who were driving were made to book cabs to go home.
 
 The deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Dhruman Nimbale, said, “Total 12 challans were issued for drunken driving. Two people, who did not cooperated and misbehaved with the police, were kept in custody for the whole night and were produced before court on Monday.”
 
 Nimbale said that the numbers of challans issued were ‘quite less’ this year. Approximately, 60 people were challaned for drunken driving last year. “This is because rather than issuing challans, we preferred to convince the people to take a cab. The cabs were already made available near the checkpoints. People who agreed were not challaned and rather reached home safe in the cabs,” said Nimbale.
 
 A police official said that a number of party-goers also made pre-booking of the cabs. According to the data provided by Uber, approximately 400 people booked cabs to go home after attending a party on New Year’s Eve.
 
 The additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP- traffic) Sukhoal Singh Brar said on December 31, 2017, a total 149 people were challaned for riding without helmet, 63 for not wearing seat belt, 23 for wrong parking and 62 for using mobile while driving. Nearly 91 challans were issued to those who jumped red lights.
 
 Number game
 
 Cops on duty on roads: 1,500
 
 Patrolling teams: 33
 
 Checkpoints: 100
 
 Challans issued on Dec 31, 2017
 
 Wrong parking: 23
 
 Usage of mobile while driving: 62
 
 Riding without helmets: 149
 
 Without seat belts: 63
 
 Jumping red lights: 91
 
 Drunk driving in 2017: 12
 
 Drunk driving in 2016: 60
 
 
