COIMBATORE: Once bitten, twice shy. Stung by reports of misappropriation of funds, the   has refused to divulge information on its spending under the RTI Act to an activist. 

 In November 2015,   Jesudas had filed an RTI petition seeking information on the expenditure of the civic body. He had specifically sought all the payment book details from 2011 to 2015. 
 
 Though the corporation gave him the information in January 2016, Daniel found several discrepancies and sought details for the years 2016 and 2017 as well. He filed another RTI petition for the same in June 2017. 
 
 He had to appeal after the corporation failed to give any reply. Then the civic body asked him to pay Rs 19,010 stating Rs 5 for per page. “As per RTI norms it was just Rs2 per page. So, I asked them to reduce the money. Since they refused citing larger sheets were used, I accepted and made the payment on February 20, 2018,” said Daniel.
 
 Since then, it had been three months and he did not get any reply. After he appealed stating that he had made the payment as per norms and it was the civic body’s duty to provide information, the account’s officer sent him a letter denying information and returned his money in the form of a cheque.
 
 In the letter, the assistant commissioner of accounts department has stated that they had lot of work load as they had tax collection due to which they could not provide information to him. 
 
 Besides, several news articles were published in daily newspapers based on the information provided earlier, the letter said. “The contractors have submitted letters objecting to giving their account details to individuals,” said the officer in the letter. 
 
 He said, “We have already given more than 2,000 pages of information on the same subject. So, giving you the same information again and again is affecting the normal work in corporation.”
 
 The letter stated that this work is voluminous and the information you have sought is not in public interest. “If at all we give you this information, it might affect the sanctity and growth of a public entity and will be used against the objectives of the corporation.”
 
 Daniel said that as per norms, the civic body should put details of all the works carried out with details such as the project cost, date of commencement and completion along with the names of the contractors. 
 
 “All these information that I am asking them should be made public. It is public money that they are spending. Contractors have siphoned off all the money in the name of fake projects and that is why they are scared, and they have petitioned. So, if the corporation is denying information, that means the corporation officials are also involved in the corruption,” he said.
 
 TOI had reported on April 26 how the civic body paid Rs84 lakh for two biogas plants and a compound wall that was never set up. These payments were made in August 2015 to   and Vardhaan Infrastructure for biogas plants and K Mani and A P R Constructions for compound walls. But the biogas plant projects, even officials agreed, were carried out only in 2016. But how were the payments made in 2015, asked Daniel. “It is this misappropriation of funds that the civic body is scared will come out. But we will not stop. We will appeal and even go to the court to get these details. They are spending public money not personal money that they can deny information,” said Daniel.
 
 
