JAIPUR: Scare of monitor lizards and snakes has gripped Malsisar gram panchayat which are entering residential areas with water after   built on Kumbharam Arya Canal Lift project burst on Saturday. People are scared to return to their houses fearing these unwanted guests might have entered their houses along with water of the dam. 

 “People are really frightened. They are not returning to their homes due to waterlogging and also due to fear of reptiles. They had to vacate when dam water entered their houses. Still, there are houses submerged in Malsisar,” said Bismillah Chouhan, sarpanch, Malsisar gram panchayat. 
 
 “Snakes are spotted but another reptile goyra (monitor  ) has also entered residential areas. Its bite can cause serious health problems to victims,” she said.
 
 Health department officials swung into action when they came to know about reptiles such as monitor lizards and snakes entering residential areas. “As soon as it came to our knowledge, we immediately issued Malsisar community health centre (CHC) a lot of 50 anti-venom serum injections. In case a monitor lizard or   bites a person in the area, he will get immediate treatment,” said Dr  , chief medical health officer, Jhunjhunu. 
 
 The newly constructed dam on Kumbharam Arya Canal Lift project had broken on Saturday leading to more than 300 crore litres of water gushing out and entering residential areas of Malsisar and nearby areas. 
 
 At least 20 families have left their houses due to water-logging. The trees in the areas have also been submerged in water.
 
 “When trees submerge, reptiles who live in trees move to safer places in residential areas. We have heard from villagers that they spotted monitor lizards and snakes in large numbers. The treatment of snake bite and monitor lizard bite is almost same. We provide anti-venom serum injections in both cases. But, thankfully, no such case has been reported in our CHC,” said Dr Manoj Dudi, incharge, Malsisar CHC. The construction work of dam was started in 2013 and in December 2017, state government started supplying water in residential areas of Jhunjhunu. But, it had supplied water for barely three months following which the dam burst.
 
 
