CHENNAI:   rushed to the stands screaming wildly with joy after rising above two FC Goa defenders to head home Chennaiyin FC’s crucial second goal against FC Goa in the semifinals. The 26-year-old wasn’t just celebrating his strike but was also proving a point to his critics. Since sustaining a knee injury in 2015 on India duty, the local lad didn’t feature in a single Chennaiyin game for the next two years before John Gregory gave him a start in the second game this season against NEUFC. The holding midfielder repaid the coach’s faith as he went on to play a decisive role in every game barring an inconsequential tie against Mumbai City.

 
 Dhanpal’s contribution is reward for the faith that the Chennaiyin management put on their entire Indian contingent. While other teams have often rotated their Indian players due to inconsistency, the likes of Ganesh, Jerry Lalrinzuala and Jeje Lalpekhlua in Gregory’s outfit always rose to the challenges. Take Jeje for example. Despite the striker going through a goal drought for seven games, Gregory had unwavering confidence in his abilities. Jeje returned to form with a brace in the semifinals and the 27-year-old is now the second highest Indian scorer behind Sunil Chhetri with nine goals.
 
 The 2015 champions might have built their squad around their defence, comprising experienced foreigners such as Henrique Sereno, Mailson Alves and Inigo Calderon, but it has been the domestic players who have won them matches by scoring 16 of the side’s 28 goals. In fact, the Indians netted all the four goals that Chennaiyin scored in the semifinals. Gregory said the quality in Indian players has helped in bringing the right balance in the squad. “The best aspect about these Indian boys was they wanted to get better and learn. They have the right professional attitude. So it helped in getting the right balance in the squad with the experienced foreigners,” Gregory said.
 
 The contributions aren’t confined to scoring goals alone. Karanjit Singh, who was recently overlooked in the Indian squad, is second on the list of goalkeepers with 49 saves while left-back Lalrinzuala, the only Indian in CFC’s backline, has put in the hard yards consistently.
 
 What has also worked in Chennaiyin’s favour is that the average age of Indians is just 25. Teenagers like Anirudh Thapa, Jerry and Germanpreet Singh have adapted well to the playing style of the squad. “These youngsters didn’t have any egos and it helped in having the right dressing room atmosphere. They were eager to prove themselves and that’s one of the major reasons the performance graph of the side has gone up. They are not afraid of anything and are immensely fit,” said Gregory.
 
 Ganesh reveals that it is the club’s persistence with Indian players which helped them strike a winning combination. “Right from the start, CFC backed me. They took a lot of care of me when I was injured. So I am glad I could stand up to their expectations. Just like me, I know (winger Francis) Fernandes was injured too when he was picked in the draft but he performed well in so many matches. So the club’s support has inspired the players to work hard,” Ganesh told TOI.
 
 With the right work ethic and a fearless attitude, there is no reason why Chennaiyin cannot again win the   title.
 
