CHENNAI: This April, the centuries-old language Alu Kurumba, spoken by about 1,000 people living in the Nilgiris, will get its first written record of grammar and syntax. One of their tribe, R Viswanathan will be receiving a PhD documenting the structure of the ancient tongue, which is listed under critically endangered language varieties. It is the 33-year-old’s attempt to put in writing what has been passed down generations orally.

 “We use the Kannada dialect but have no script. I am borrowing Tamil to write down about our language. My work could become museum material later for people to learn of this tribe,” says Viswanathan, a student at Bharathiar University.
 
 Surviving  , displacement and disease with no script and only in memory is no mean feat. Oral traditions have been the guardian for   like Alu Kurumba, Toda, Kota, Eravalla and Beta. Though the language varieties and dialects have outlasted the onslaughts of time, migration, intrusion of mainstream   and shrinking loyalists are pushing them towards silence. And this time , some   are trying to   their tradition by documenting the otherwise invisible tongue. “The youngest member of our tribe is 20 and life expectancy doesn’t exceed 60 years. Migration to cities for work and the tapering population of the tribe is taking the alu Kurumba language,” says Viswanathan, who lives in a village near Kotagiri and wants to to make a book of his thesis. 
 
 While there are 2,000 Toda speakers, and 2,500 people who speak Kota in the seven villages in the Nilgiris, both tribes ensure that their indigenous language is spoken in their village. “Our children study in Tamil and English medium schools but when they enter the village, they speak only Kota,” says Sargunakaran K, a farmer, who is planning to release a book on the culture of the Kotas. While in Kota some of the words are similar to Tamil like water in both Tamil and Kota is ‘neer’, other words vary a great deal. “Like we say kukkeer for sit, while in Tamil it is ‘okaru’. We ensure the children use the right words when they are at home so they do not forget the language,” he says.
 
 While a recent study establishes the Dravidian language family, consisting of 80 varieties spoken by nearly 220 million people across southern and central India, originated about 4,500 years ago, experts are unsure how many will last. Ganesh Devy of the People’s Linguistic Survey of India, which records India’s living languages, says the   that are showing a decline are those that are “digitally dead”, meaning they have no digital presence. “In Tamil Nadu, there are 17 languages that are digitally dead, some of them being Betta Kurumba and Eravalla,” he says. Devy adds that there are several reasons for the decline of a language from its disuse in the educational system to migration of its speakers. 
 
 Murugesan, a daily wage labourer, who lives on the Tamil Nadu Kerala border, is one of the few in his village holding on to the Eravalla language. “Most of the youngsters,” says the 55-year-old, “including my children, prefer to speak in Tamil. When I speak to them in my language, they laugh at me. It makes me sad and angry, but there is nothing I can do other than repeat myself in Tamil,” says Murugesan. “I ask them to make an attempt to understand but children these days do not see the value in what we say,” he adds. “What’s the point? Will it get me a job,” asks Murugesan’s son Saravanan.
 
 The Todas and Kotas seem to be faring a little better than Murugesan and the rest of the Eravalla speakers. “Despite the efforts there is a decline of these languages,” says V Gnanasundaram, former deputy director of Central Institute of Indian Languages, Mysore, who has researched the Eravalla language, and documented its last speakers including Murugesan. “Yes, there are people researching languages…but research is one thing, speaking the language is another,” says Gnanasundaram.
 
 
