PANAJI: Old Goa’s historic city, on the lines of Lisbon in Portugal, lays sprawled partly on the   plateau within a 21km-long fortification wall. 

 Extending from the southern banks of River Mandovi, the city eulogized by foreign travellers, flourished in the 16th century. It stood apart from any other city as it was protected by one of the largest fortification walls in Asia extending from Bainguinim in the north west to Daujim-Corlim in the east, and   and Azossim towards south and   in the south west.
 
 However, as the development footprint looms over the hilly area, heritage lovers are worried about several archaeological sites. “Old Goa is not a small cluster of church monuments, as it is now, but it was much bigger than Panaji. As described by travellers, it was a labyrinth of streets, squares, magnificent palaces, hospitals, churches and convents. Most have disappeared now but there are many ruins on the plateau,” says Tomas Amansio Rodrigues, a researcher.
 
 With the inclusion of the Kadamba plateau under the   (GPPDA) area, heritage lovers are trying to draw the government’s attention to the ruins that can be protected through thoughtful initiatives. A 5km-long section of the almost three metre high laterite brick wall still survives, though not as a contiguous one. It lies in partly forested and orchard land on the southern limits of  , as the former capital was known. 
 
 “The wall, which forms a part of forts in some areas, has hidden doorways, majestic arches, buttresses-cum horse stables and other features which still exist and need to be protected,” Rodrigues says. The researcher has taken decades to document the entire length of the fortification in various places with photographs.
 
 Pedro Barreto de Resende, a Portuguese historian and statesman describes in his accounts the existence of 3,500 homes in Old Goa, of which 800 were occupied by the Portuguese. 
 
 Heritage groups, especially Kadamba Vaarsa Samvardhan Samiti (KVSS), have petitioned the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the department of archives and archaeology (DAA) to protect the archaeological evidence of the true history of Goa’s heritage. “We are trying to highlight the issue of scattered heritage remains on the plateau. But many heritage monuments have already been damaged due to construction activity,” says KVSS convener Shailendra Velingkar.
 
 The ruins and archaeological remains can be preserved and showcased for tourism and posterity. “There are examples where progressive countries have preserved monuments and transformed them as tourist centres which yields revenue,” he says.
 
 
