HYDERABAD: Three direct spottings of tigers were reported in   during the three-day carnivore survey as part of phase-1 of the All India Tiger Estimation. A software engineer and member of Friends of Snakes Society, along with a forest official, spotted a tiger while it was guarding its kill in Farhabad in   Tiger Reserve. 

 This is the third direct sighting of the big cat by enumerators in Telangana. Doctors, software engineers, students and other volunteers are now gearing up for the herbivore survey. 
 
 Aditya Kesav, a business intelligence team manager at Tech Mahindra, told TOI: "A watcher Lingaiah and I were investigating an odour on our trail at around 9.45am on the third day of the carnivore survey at Farhabad East. The initial assumption was that the odour came from fresh tiger scat, but we discovered a two-day-old body of a sambar killed by a tiger. While on the way back from the trail about 200-300 metres away from the kill, a young tiger, probably female, crossed our trail and seemed to be headed towards the kill to inspect it."
 
 Telangana forest department OSD (wildlife) A   told TOI, "On Thursday, while the enumerators were returning from the trail, they spotted a tiger at Mallapur tank. A botanist, Raju from Vizag, spotted the tiger near the water tank. Altogether in three days, three tigers and one leopard were spotted directly apart from the discovery of several pug marks, scat and animal kill." 
 
 One of the tiger sightings was reported from Kadamba in Kagaznagar when   bus commuters spotted the animal crossing the road. 
 
 At least 400 volunteers from Hyderabad, including doctors, engineers and engineering college students, went into the forests across state to take part in the survey. A team spotted a pack of 32 wild dogs in Kawal sanctuary and 10 bisons near a water body. Volunteers also head sloth bear calls in  .
 
 "The herbivore survey, vegetation and aspect of human disturbances index will start on Jan 27 and go on till Jan 29. In phase 2, we will take up camera trap survey based on phase 1 results. At least 100 cameras will be put up in a 400sqkm area where the most number of pug marks and sightings were reported. It will take 45 to 60 days. Later, the   of India, with the help of satellite imagery, will work on vegetation, water and habitation, fire layers and analyse the disturbances," said A Shankaran.
 
 
