MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday ordered the state government to provide Rs 5 lakh compensation to a widow and two minor children who lost their sole breadwinner due to police torture, eight years ago. 

 Of the Rs 5 lakh, the public secretary of the government should give Rs 2 lakh to Gayathri, the widow of one Nambu alias   and deposit Rs 1.5 lakh each in the names of his minor children, within two weeks from the receipt of the court order copy. 
 
 A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and R   said this in its interim order while it was hearing a batch of appeals filed by the secretary and police officials Vijaya Baskar, R Balaji and   (who is now retired). 
 
 On April 22, 2010, one Thangavelu kept Rs 5 lakh and 2kg of gold bars in a bag and gave it to his driver Ramesh and asked him to hand it over to the owner of Ravi Fertilizer Shop, Melur in Madurai. However, the gold went missing when Ramesh was travelling in a bus. He conveyed this to Thangavelu who in turn lodged a complaint with the Melur police. They took Ramesh into their custody the same night. They detained him under their illegal custody for seven days and then released him. Later, they again picked him up on May 10. The next day at around 3am, police informed his relatives that he was in hospital. When they went to see him, they came to know that he had died. 
 
 Stating that the cause of death was owing to custodial torture by the three police officials, Gayathri and the two children filed a case in 2010 seeking Rs 10 lakh compensation. The matter was kept pending for about seven years. Eventually, justice M S Ramesh on March 24, last year passed an order saying that on the basis of the report of the additional DGP (CB-CID) the court was of the view that three police officials had handled the case of the deceased (Ramesh) in an incautious and ruthless manner, due to which he had taken treatment owing to the harassment while in custody. 
 
 The judge also said that there was a convincing proof to show that he was last seen by the police and hence it applied the ‘last seen theory’ and ‘mutilant liability’ on the police and granted Rs 10 lakh compensation. The judge also said that the three officials were joint tortfeasors in the entire episode and hence it would be open to the public secretary to recover the compensation amount from the trio. 
 
 Challenging it, the officials preferred an appeal last year and obtained a stay for recovery of money. Subsequently, the government too shot an appeal against the single judge order.
 
 
