UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris, particularly Ooty, has been the locale for many of late star Sridevi’s films. Many scenes in Tamil films featuring the then ‘queen of southern movies’ along with Kamal Haasan and Rajnikanth such as ‘Vazhve Mayam’, ‘Moondram Pirai’, ‘Thanikattu Raja’ and ‘Naan Adimai Illai’ were shot in and around Ooty. However, one particular shot in the hills that deeply moved film buffs is from the critically acclaimed ‘Moondram Pirai’, written and directed by Balu  , who was also thecinematographer for the film.

 
 The film featured Kamal Haasan and   in lead roles with Silk Smitha, Poornam Vishwanathan and Y G Mahendra playing supporting roles. Most of the scenes were shot near Ooty. The shooting of the intense climax of the film at the Ketti railway station is an unforgettable experience for the locals who watched it.
 
 Kakkamallan, a gardener in the Ooty railway station and resident of Ullathi village near Ketti, recalled, “I was among the people who witnessed that poignant scene. The scene always remains in my heart. Sridevi, who had no dialogue in that particular scene, really proved her histrionic skills.”
 
 
 It took nearly three days for Balu Mahendra to shoot that particular scene. “After the movie was released in 1982, for several years the Ketti station was known as ‘Moondram Pirai station’ among tourists. Even today, many tourists connect this station with the movie,” said Kakkamallan.
 
 
 Mathan, a resident of Ketti village who also witnessed the shooting, said Indian cinema lost a wonderful actor with the death of Sridevi. “The railway station scene tells the whole story of the movie. I still remember how Sridevi carried herself so well during the shoot. Millions of her fans still gush about her role in Moondram Pirai.”
 
 
 The lilting lullaby ‘Kanne Kalaimane’ in the romantic drama was the last song penned by Kannadasan. Composed by Ilaiyaraaja, the evergreen melody was recorded before the lyricist’s death in 1981.
 
 
 Though Balu Mahendra shot many of his movies in Ooty and surrounding areas, this movie apparently was very close to his heart. In an interview, he had said it was based on his brief relationship with actress Shoba.
 
 
 The movie fetched Kamal a National Film Award for best actor and Balu Mahendra the award for best cinematography. It bagged five state film awards, including one for Sridevi for best actress.
 
 
 Silk Smitha, Poornam Viswanathan and Balu Mahendra are no more today.
 
