Time’s up. No more suffering in silence.   are now screaming   from their virtual roof tops — social media handles — and calling out sexual predators who’ve been lurking around everywhere from workplaces to homes; schools to streets. And as it has been seen of late, a lot of victims have spoken out about abuse they suffered years ago, often when they were still minors. While most of this ‘calling out’ has happened on social media in the form of testimonials, status messages or a simple hashtag, like #metoo, can it translate into justice in the real world? Can a case be filed? Will sexual assaulters be punished, irrespective of when the assault happened? How can one prove it? These are questions that have popped up after news broke that a female cousin of veteran actor Jeetendra filed an FIR accusing him of sexually assaulting her 50 years ago! Or more recently, when the shocking claims by dozens of young women, including five from Hyderabad, surfaced alleging that they were prey to slam poet Shamir Reuben’s sexual advances while they were still in their teens.
When   spoke to top legal experts, officials of She Teams, Hyderabad Police and women’s rights activist to find out, here’s what all of them had to say — “first and foremost, speak up!” “Even if it happened 12 years ago, you can go to a police station and lodge a formal complaint. based on the victim’s statement, a complaint would most certainly be registered. That is the first step,” says ACP Kavitha Dara, She Teams, Hyderabad City Police. So what Jeetendra’s cousin did right was she took that first step and filed the complaint, irrespective of what the consequences would be.
 
 
 Senior advocate   has that covered — “You can file a private complaint with the court. the complaint is written down by a third party in court, then a sworn statement is recorded by the victim, and as a third step, the witnesses’ statement or that of anyone who supports the victim is recorded,” she explains. Based on these, the court may either take cognisance on its own or refer it to the respective police station for investigation. She further adds, “The police may close the case stating there is lack of evidence. Many a times, a powerful accused may use influence to make that happen, but the victim can again approach a magistrate and file a protest statement. The court can again take cognisance by itself or refer it to a police station to reinvestigate.”
 
 
 
 Once up for trial, lawyers admit, the case can be difficult to prove, but it most certainly isn’t impossible to prove. Anita Salabh, an advocate says, “There is no limitation of time in terms of filing a case. Even during the investigation, the court will take into account the ‘date of knowledge’.” Date of knowledge comes into play when a crime has taken place in the past, but it is only much later that the victim realises what her rights are and what the nature of criminality is, and therefore seeks for justice, she adds.
 So if an abuse took place when one was a minor, the court does not rule out that the ‘date of knowledge’ can be much later and so the victim’s statement in itself can be a strong case in point against the accused. 
 However, the future of the case may also depend on how adept the lawyer is. “In India, a person is innocent unless proven guilty beyond reasonable doubt. So the man can continue to deny, refute or just stay silent. The police may also have their hands tied without sufficient proof to make an arrest, as the accused person can at anytime file a writ petition in high court stating that the officers have arrested them unjustly and misused power.” 
 The indian legal system also has an act called the Limitation Act 1963, which says a crime must be reported within 3 years of its date in order to hold an unbiased investigation. ACP Kavitha Dara also adds that only if the offence fetches a punishment of more than 7 years can an immediate arrest be made without notice to the accused, so for crimes that warrant smaller punishment terms, the accused may not be jailed. So while both sides have equal chances and mechanisms in legal system, it’s only the one with facts and proof who can succeed.
 
 
 lawyers say the burden to prove is inadvertently on the victim. During cross examinations itself, the legal system will be able to distinguish genuine cases from the fabricated ones. Apart from these, proximity between the victim and the accused is also a strong evidence. “Photos, text messages, emails also can prove that there was a proximity between the two sides and the victim can assert that this proximity was misused,” adds advocate Vani.
 
 
 
 In the case of allegations against Shamir Reuben, one victim from Hyderabad wrote her testimony and ended it questioning herself, wondering if she may have led him on and caused him to think it was okay to text her or use sexually explicit language.   has an answer: “Even if you gave a conscious, informed, ill-informed consent of any kind to the perpetrator when you were below the age of 18, it is still a crime. As per IPC, the accused has committed a crime even if the minor victim had consented, so a case can be registered as per guidelines.”
 
 
 
