My senior is a celebrity...” beamed a little girl waiting outside the arrivals lounge in   Airport on Friday morning. “She’s a medal-winning gymnast,” gushed another. “She created history in Indian gymnastics,” someone else remarked. They were all alluding to the historics of the new pin-up girl of gymnastics, Hyderabad-based Budda  , who became the first Indian to win an individual medal at the Gymnastics  , concluded in Melbourne recently. And to welcome the victorious champ home, Hyderabad had gone all out! Placards, pompoms, flower garlands and bouquets, and a huge crowd comprising excited family members, friends, fans, awaited the star as she walked out of the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Shamshabad. The overwhelmed 22-year-old was showered with petals and garlanded, before being ushered into a special open-top vehicle that was part of a victory rally, that snaked through the city, all the way to her residence in Attapur, amidst much fan fare.
 Draped in the tricolour, Aruna proudly waved the national flag as the rally inched forward. For Aruna, who was chased by journalists for photo-ops and bytes through the 20-km journey from the airport to her home, all of this is yet to sink in. “It’s such an amazing feeling. When I stood there on the podium, I just couldn’t believe it; I don’t know why but tears started rolling down my cheeks. I felt like I have made India proud. But at that point I had no clue that it was the first ever medal in   for India. I was so shocked then,” shared an emotional Aruna, taking breaks to wave out to her little fans and her juniors, young gymnasts who trained with her at LB stadium.
 “This is crazy. We all hoped that she would win, but did not expect her to actually come back with that medal. That was her best performance to date; I have never seen her do it better,” said Sahasra V, a 12 year old who has seen Aruna train at the stadium in Hyderabad, who grins with glee as Aruna waves back.
 
 
 
 When she reached her Attapur residence, it was an emotional moment for Aruna as she was welcomed home by her teary-eyed mother, Subhadra, and sister, Pavani. “It is one thing to win a medal, but she has gone on to make history, which was completely unexpected. We all knew she had it in her to win this big, but now that it is happening we are running out of words,” Aruna’s sister Pavani told us.
 
 The first thing Aruna did though was rush to her late father’s portrait, wrap her arms around it while fighting back tears and and later, garland his picture. “Her father was the main motivator; if not for him she would have never joined the sport. When he passed away in 2010, after a brief period of set back, she set her mind to realise his dream,” a moist-eyed Subhadra informed us.
 
 
 
 The 22-year-old gymnast, who had scored 13.649 to finish third behind Tjasa Kysslef of Slovenia and Emily Whitehead of Australia in the women’s vault event, said that she never liked to speak of winning medals while she was preparing for the tournament. “Before the tournament, I had set targets for myself, but I didn’t want to reveal them to anybody else as I didn’t want to take too much pressure on myself. I would often avoid speaking about it with anyone, including close family members, and quickly change the subject,” explained Aruna.
 
 
 Having received a rousing reception from the people as well as the government of  , Aruna is not looking to rest on her laurels. Instead, she has set her sights on the upcoming Commonwealth Games. “I did not come here to receive this honour from the state government or take part in the road show. I’ve come to meet my coach, who has been unwell. I will now start preparations for the Commonwealth Games and will give it my best shot,” she added, confidently.
 Aruna’s historic victory might just finally put an end to the family’s financial struggle to keep the gymnast in top shape for world tournaments. “Before leaving, we discussed with Aruna if we should approach sponsors for her trip, because every trip sets us back by lakhs of rupees. But she gave us a confident look and said, ‘Amma, sponsors will come to us soon. She has finally done it,” adds Subhadra, who is hoping her daughter’s upcoming journey will be less financially stressful. Aruna is a Target Olympic Player (TOP), under which athletes get financial aid from the government. However the delay in funds can be a set-back for the players, like it was in Aruna’s case as well. Admittedly, she had to take a personal loan to fund one half of her training. Aruna will be felicitated on Saturday, where the Sports Minister of Telangana is expected to hand over a cash prize as well.
 
 
