GURUGRAM: Around 600 families living in  , an upscale township in  , are worried for their wards as school buses have refused to provide pick up and drop facilities for the children of the society in absence of proper  .

 The condominium has no connectivity to any of the Huda or MCG-laid roads. “We are struggling to send our children to school daily, since most of the schools have withdrawn their buses. Immediate action is very much needed. How the children will reach home if school buses don’t operate?” questioned Ishita Srivastava, a resident.
 
 The developer, Ireo, had offered possession in 2015 by connecting the society with a 15-foot-wide village revenue road. The road is inadequate to take care of 600 families and more than 1,000 vehicles on a daily basis, residents lamented. “It is impossible for school buses and emergency response vehicles like fire tenders and ambulances to reach the society,” said Hitesh Pahuja, president of Ireo Uptown RWA.
 
 Residents had been using another road for access, but it was blocked earlier this month. “There was an alternate road without lighting and maintenance from the other side of the complex. It was being used by heavy vehicles like school buses and emergency response vehicles till March 4,” Pahuja said.
 
 He said this road was suddenly blocked by someone who claimed to be the owner of the land on which the road was built. “We have confirmed that the land is indeed private,” Pahuja said. 
 
 Residents blamed the government for poor planning of new sectors. “Ireo Uptown is a live example of poor town planning and failure of both the government and the builder. A complex with 600 families has no road though the building plan as well as occupation certificate (OC) were approved by authorities,” said  , who lives in the society. Despite multiple appeals to the authorities and the developer, nothing has been done on the ground, residents said. 
 
 District town planner (DTP) RS Batth said private land is coming in the way of the construction of a 24m-wide road connecting Ireo Uptown with rest of Gurugram. “As per the licence conditions, the construction of a 24m-wide road coming under the licence area is the responsibility of the builder concerned. The government has taken note of the matter and the departments concerned are working on the modalities to find a solution for construction of a 24m-wide road.” 
 
 He said a transferable development rights (TDR) policy, under which developers can buy land from private individuals for civic infrastructure and get extra floor-area ratio (FAR) in return, is already in place for construction of the road. But residents complained the developer had not bought the land for the road.
 
 When TOI contacted Ireo, the developer said the project has two proposed 24m-wide roads under the Master Plan, one connecting the society to the sectors 65-66 road and another to the sectors 66-67 road. Speaking about the status of these roads, the developer said it couldn’t construct the roads as it didn’t own the land for it. 
 
 The total length of the proposed road connecting the society to the sectors 65-66 road is 965m, out of which land for 645m of the road is owned by Ireo and other developers and the remaining 320m is owned by villagers and private individuals, Ireo said. The other road is 725m long, out of which the land for 50m comes under other developers, and the remaining 675m is owned by villagers. 
 
 “The government should intervene in the matter. We are ready to cooperate with other developers for completion of the road,” an Ireo spokesperson said.
 
