Popularly known as  ,   belongs to the rare breed of multi-talented actors in the showbiz world.

 From imitation dance to comedy, Abhi proved his mettle time and again. Making his film debut with   (2002) along with   to working with him as an assistant director on a magnum opus like  , life seems to have come a full circle for this actor.
 
 The talented actor has been inundated with accolades for his impressive puppetry show, indeed a rarity in a comedy show like   that earned him the ‘Performer of the Day’ with a never-before-score.
 
 This is indeed special for Abhi, an anchor-turned-comedian who is often roasted for his style of comedy and experiments on the show.
 
 “Life for me on Jabardast was very hard for the first couple of years. I was just treated as an anchor but not a comedian. Besides few exceptions, nothing was really falling in place for me,” confesses Abhi.
 
 The anchor-turned-comedian admits regret over playing the ‘Pencil skit’, his biggest debacle on the show. “Yes! I did a mistake and I still regret it. I barely had any idea of its repercussions while scripting or playing the skit. Of course, I apologized later and learnt my lesson,” says Abhi.
 
 Since the incident, his choices on the show have taken a ‘U’ turn. Neat and clean comedy is his priority any given day. Be it employing rope shots, dual roles in skits, imitations to puppetry recently, Abhi is known for introducing many firsts in the comedy show.
 
 Avoiding comparisons with his peer group on the show, he says, “I quickly realized that experimentation is my way of entertaining the audience and I just stuck with it. In this regard, an interview of legendary director Singeetham Sreenivasa Rao garu inspired me big time.”
 
 Talking about his strengths and weaknesses, Abhi states, “I’m aware that I don’t have the face of a comedian and I have an understanding of my comic timing too. But I sincerely believe discipline, practice and innovation helped me survive all these years. And I want to play by my cards.”
 
 The Jabardast comedian rubbished rumours of the involvement of his co-team leaders in his skit. “We never discuss our skits amongst ourselves. We listen to suggestions but at the end of the day, we just do our thing,” states Abhi.
 
 Commenting on his ex-teammate   and his success as a team leader of late, Abhi says, “I always enjoyed his satires. I like the way he keeps updated with the current affairs and blends it into his skits. Initially he had zero idea about the standards of Jabardasth. We used to work together on various things. I feel he imbibed stuff brilliantly. And I’m happy for his success today. You see not every teacher can be an IPS/IAS officer. Personally, he is the same Aadi even today. He still calls me “Anna” and that speaks volumes about his character.”
 
 This comedian continues to give his best, albeit enjoys being an anchor more than anything. 
 
 Not everyone knew that Abhi struck a fine balance between his duty and passion. He worked as a software engineer for over a decade while he continued working in television and films.
 
 “Those were the toughest yet most satisfying days of my life. Right from gymming in the morning to late night shoots, my days was completely packed. I used to carry my office laptop and work in between shot breaks. Like ‘work from home’, it was ‘work from studios,” laughs Abhi.
  
 After quitting software, he is now totally focused on his directorial plans. Sharing his ‘Baahubali’ experience working with director SS   and Prabhas, Abhi reckons, “It is a much needed experience for me as a filmmaker. Besides acting in a frame along with Subbaraju garu, assisting Rajamouli garu was a memorable experience. Thanks to Valli madam for the privilege. Meticulous planning is something I learnt from him.”
 
 He further adds, “Prabhas garu hasn’t changed a bit over the years. During Eswar days we used to pass our free-time on sets playing games. When I first met Prabhas garu on the sets of Baahubali and introduced myself as an assistant director, he exclaimed, ‘Chaaa?!’ When I expressed my interest in direction, he wished me good luck,” recalling the recent picture with Prabhas that he shared on his social networking handle.
 
  
  
 Having been in the industry for over 15 years now with notable work in television, films and short films, Abhi considers it to be the right time to take the big leap. He reveals his directorial debut plans in an exclusive chat with the TimesOfIndia.com.
 
 “I’m working on a romantic comedy and I will reveal more soon,” says Abhi signing off.
 
 
