CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu chief minister   on Friday made a fervent appeal to   cadres to stay united and not fall prey to “machinations and sinister designs of adversaries” so as to ensure that the party remained in power. This was necessary to spread the ideals like peace, prosperity and growth propagated by former chief minister   for the state’s welfare. 

 In a show of unity and strength, deputy chief minister O  , cabinet colleagues and MLAs joined the chief minister in celebrating his one year in office at an event at Kalaivanar Arangam in Chennai.
 
 The celebrations come amid turmoil of splits, rebellion and dissensions within AIADMK and the impending verdict in the 18MLAs disqualification case. “AIADMK will be a strong force even after 100 years. Some of Amma’s children deviated from the path due to some misguidance. But, they will return home for sure and help fulfil her dreams. This is Amma’s government. Let us all take a pledge to stay united to ensure the golden era continues,” Palaniswami said to the packed auditorium also attended by party functionaries and bureaucrats.
 
 Earlier, Palaniswami inaugurated an expo that showcased the government’s achievements — smart ration cards, business facilitation law, sustainable dry land agriculture and the kudimaramath scheme to restore water bodies. What could bring cheer to delta farmers, CM announced a desilting programme at Mettur reserviour will help store 15tmc ft of more water.
 
 In his 40-minute speech, Palaniswami took time to recall the “innumerable challenges” confronted by his government. “No other government would have gone through such ordeals. We have turned them into stepping stones to success and entered the second year now,” Palaniswami said, profusely thanking his colleagues, Panneerselvam, ministers, MLAs, and MPs and cadres for standing by him. Palaniswami enjoys the support of 104 MLAs in the 234-strong assembly. Without taking the names of actors   and  , whose political plunge seems to threaten an erosion in his camp, the chief minister said that people could differentiate the “true face and the fake ones with make up.” 
 
 “Those who seek publicity by hitting out at the government will be ruined by the same publicity. Those who try to seek mileage by entering politics will burn out like thorn bushes and those who cannot withstand even the smallest storm will dissipate without a trace,” Palaniswami said. For his part, Panneerselvam said the state was neither worried nor disturbed by the opposition’s criticism. 
 
