KOLKATA:   government is all set to frame new   rules following the   guideline to ensure transparency in auctioning of mines. The state has asked the DMs to find a way out for auction of minerals that are under private lands and has asked them to submit a report for mining fo the minerals without causing environmental degradation.

 The state is facing a problem in getting access to those private land rich in minerals. There are many lands under the control of raiyats where state doesn’t have an access to undertake mining operations. “According to law minerals below the soil is a property of the state government and for which the state government can also acquire any land. But as Mamata Banerjee’s government is against any forcible land acquistion, so we have to formulate a generous condition for getting hold of the land through lease or through a suitable solatium,” a senior official at Nabanna said.
 
 The DMs of Birbhum, Bankura, Midnapore (west), Purulia and Alipurduar have been asked to identify the mineral rich blocks in districts. The state needs this zoning badly to stop illegal mining and increase revenue. Following the coal scam the state is framing a modifying norm to allocate mines in a fair and transparent way, a Nabanna official said. He added right now before allocation of mining area, the state is identifying and outlining the area with chances of exploration and identify the virgin areas for grant of mining concessions as per the norms of the Centre.
 
 Right now the state is considering exploration of iron ore in new blocks along with quartz. In Purulia the state government has started e-auction process in nine reserves of quartz which are on vest land, said the DM of Purulia, Alokesh Prasad Roy. West Bengal Mineral Development and Trading Corporation (WBMDTC) is also planning for sourcing limestone, apatite, baryte, kyanite, aillimanite & corrundum in Purulia District. WBMDTC’s MD   said that they will start iron ore mining in Midnapore (west) and coal in Burdwan’s Gourangdih.
 
 The state offers three kinds of mineral concessions - Reconnaissance Permit (RP) for preliminary prospecting of minerals through regional, aerial, geophysical surveys, while Prospecting License (PL) for undertaking operations for exploring, locating mineral deposit and Mining Lease (ML) for undertaking mining operations.
 
 
