NEW DELHI: The murder of a woman and her seven-year-old   has been solved after cops identified first the child and then the   from the belt of a school uniform found lying next to the bodies. It was found that the woman had visited the accused’s house on the day of the incident during which she changed her son’s clothes and left the belt in the room.

 Police officers said that on April 25, cops found the semi-decomposed body of the woman, later identified as Sabitri Ghosh, and her son at a house in Janta Jeevan Camp in Okhla. The belt was found lying next to the bodies. While questioning the landlord of the house, cops found that the woman had been staying there with a man whom she used to identify as her husband. However, the landlord too was not aware of the whereabouts of the man. He had introduced himself as Sanjay to the landlord.
 
 “A team led by SHO Okhla Mukesh Walia was formed to identify the woman and the child first. A police team reached the school with the help of the markings on the belt and identified the child and his mother,” said Chinmoy Biswal, DCP southeast.
 
 CCTV cameras were also scanned and locals were questioned during which one of them identified the man as Bablu Mandal. He had introduced the woman as his wife to the others.
 
 Investigations revealed that the accused had been forcing the woman to have a live-in relationship with him but she had refused, due to which he used to accuse her of having other relationships.
 
 Mandal was tracked down to a remote village in Jharkhand. A police team arrested him and recovered the bloodstained clothes from him.
 
 During interrogation, Mandal told the cops that he had invited the woman to his house to sort out the issues between them. Once the woman reached his house, he offered her a drink. After some time, he got into a heated argument and stabbed her with a knife in front of the child.
 
 When the child tried to resist, he slit his throat and left him beside the woman. He then locked the door and fled to Jharkhand. He told the cops that the woman’s husband had passed away a few years back and ever since he has been trying to convince her to stay in a live-in relationship with him.
 
 
