MYSURU: The delay in transferring maintenance of Mysuru Urban Development Authority (Muda) layouts to the   ( ) notwithstanding, the latter has decided to collect   from the owners in these localities in order to provide basic facilities.

 MCC authorities recently sent a notice to all property owners in these layouts – including Vijayanagar III Stage – developed by Muda. The layouts were supposed to be handed over to MCC in the New Year. Pointing to facilities such as supply of drinking water, sanitation and underground drain connection that the civic body has made provisions for in localities within the Outer Ring Road (ORR), MCC is demanding property tax from owners.
 
 MCC authorities recently have sent a notice to all the property owners of such layouts including Vijayanagar 3rd stage which are developed by MUDA and are proposed to be transferred to MCC to pay the property tax from the New Year.
 
 MCC commissioner G Jagadeesha told TOI, “We have been providing all facilities to the Muda layouts for many years. So, we have requested the property owners to voluntarily pay tax to the corporation for the basic amenities we have provided. But, we have also clarified that by paying property tax, they cannot claim khata and building licence from MCC. These can be provided only after layouts are transferred to MCC.”
 
 Jagadeesha said that bringing Muda layouts within the purview of MCC would increase the civic body’s revenue by 20%. “We have already collected Rs 100 crore in revenue, and by March, we will achieve the target of collecting Rs 120 crore,” he said.
 
 However, KN Pura (Ward No. 60) corporator and mayor HS Srikantaiah told TOI that demanding property tax from residents of Muda layout residents would lead to confusion. “Earlier, Muda developed layouts and transferred it to MCC. Muda had no right to collect taxes from houseowners. But, when Siddaramaiah was finance minister, the then Muda chairman Basave Gowda sought permission to collect taxes till the layouts were handed over to MCC to improve the financial condition of the cash-strapped body. Residents of Muda layouts have since been very confused about what body to pay their taxes to,” he said. 
 
 Muda recently transferred 48 layouts to the MCC recently. However, 14 more layouts are yet to be handed over to the MCC. Former mayor   said that negligence of MCC authorities had resulted in the civic body not collecting property tax from these layouts.
 
 “MCC is providing all basic amenities, and should collect property tax from owners by holding camps. Government should soon hand over both Muda and private layouts to MCC to facilitate owners to get a khata,” said Byrappa.
 
 
