CHANDIGARH: Teachers from the schools under Council for the   Examination (CISCE) board on Wednesday shared some crucial tips and tricks that would not only help students crack Mathematics exam of Class XII (Indian School Certificate) -- which is scheduled for February 26 – but also score better.

 The teachers also said that mathematics is an important subject for students who want to pursue a career in the field of engineering, business administration, chartered accountancy, statistics or even economics.
 
  
  
 
 The city-based teacher, who want the students to come out with flying colours said that the students must revise each chapter keeping in mind the examination pattern, weightage of chapter, and kind of questions usually asked; complete the paper in 2 hour 40 minutes; remember to draw diagrams for maxima-minima and area bound by curves questions. Among the questions with internal choices, select the ones that you plan to attempt and frame skeletons of the answers you are going to write for these questions,”
 
  
  
 
 “Attempt all the questions since marks can be scored for basic knowledge as well. Rough work should always be done along with the question in the given margin and not on the last page. Divide time wisely for different sections -- Sec A, Sec B or Sec C,” said  , who teaches mathematics and is a senior vice-principal of St Xavier’s School in Sector 44.
 
 “While attempting any question, always follow correct method right from step 1. Avoid short cuts. Simplify each problem step-by-step as correct answer is immaterial in board correction if method is incorrect at any stage,” he added.
 
 According to Suresh  , who is also a mathematics teacher at  , the students must not rote formulae and lay emphasis on understanding how they work.
 
 “Some formulae are very basic and require you to identify the parts in the problem that corresponds to parts in the formula. If you don’t understand how a formula works and the principle behind it, it can often be difficult to solve a problem. For instance, while performing integration, it is not difficult to memorise the formula for integration by parts, however, if you don’t understand how to use this formula, you would find the memorised formula of no use,” Saini said and added that students must revise each lesson at least once before the exams.
 
 “While revising the subject, keep in mind the exam pattern, weightage of chapter, and kind of questions that are usually asked,” Saini pointed out. He also directed the students to solve a few sets of sample papers; follow same approach for all the chapters and allocate 5 minute per 4 mark. “Practice will help in time management,” he said.
 
 
