PANAJI: The Times of India's campaign, ' :  ', bagged a gold and three silver Abbys at GoaFest 2018 on Saturday. The campaign, launched by The Times of India in Kolkata to counter gender inequality and call attention towards social inclusion in celebrations, in all won 12 metals (as the Abbys are called)-four golds, five silvers and three bronze metals. 

 The Times of India itself won two gold Abbys, while the Group's Kannada daily picked up a gold under the publisher's category at GoaFest 2018, considered the Oscars of the media and advertising world.
 
  Such was the impact of the '#NoConditionsApply: Shindoor Khela' promotion that it also won a silver in the special Abby category on day three. 
 
  The campaign's concept was to highlight how united by gender but divided by society, various members like widows, transgenders, divorcees and single mothers face social exclusion year after year at the traditional Shindoor Khela festivities during Durga puja. 
 
 The underlying principle of #NoConditionsApply was to urge the women to play with two dots of shindoor, a symbol that will unite. The first dot of shindoor for one-self and the second dot of shindoor for a sister highlighting 'let's not apply conditions on celebrations'. 
 
  For the creative use of a popular festival to promote a social cause and create brand identity, the '#NoConditionsApply' campaign bagged a gold in the Branded Content and Entertainment segment. FCB India Group, the advertising and marketing consultant for the campaign picked up the gold metal. 
 
 FCB India also picked up two silver Abbys for best integrated entertainment content campaign using two media and in the integrated advertising category. In the corporate promotion category and in the Audio Visual Long Form segment, FCB India Group picked two bronze metals for the '#NoConditionsApply'.
 
 In the Still Print Ad category, Famous Innovations bagged a silver Abby for the 'Books over Beauty-Correcting a 156-year-old mistake' advertisement for Times Soulmate.
 
 On the third and the final day of Goafest 2018, Abbys were handed out to deserving winners of Digital & Mobile, Digital Craft, National Geographic Green Award, Special Abby, Promotion/Activation, Radio Craft, Radio, Branded Content & Entertainment, Out of Home & Ambient Media, Still Content, Audio Visual Content and Integrated Abbys.
 
  "Goafest is a phenomenon that is close to the hearts of the entire media & creative fraternity. Months of hard work by the AAAI and   teams, the Abbys Master Jury, and encouragement has resulted into yet another stellar festival this year," president of The Advertising Club, Vikram Sakhuja, said. 
 
 
