LUCKNOW: Tonnes of potatoes were strewn on Saturday in Lucknow's VVIP areas in what is being as an act by the state's farmers to demand fair price for their produce. The state government dismissed the incident as the "work of miscreants". 

 Potatoes were found strewn at WPL 1090 Crossing, Vidhan Sabha and Raj Bhawan. Three policemen, including a sub-inspector, were suspended on charges of negligence after the incident.Lucknow district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said potatoes were thrown from a truck but they were yet to ascertain who was responsible for the act. So far, no farmers' group has claimed responsibility.
 
 In Meerut, however, CM   said his was the first government to announce a minimum support price (MSP) for potatoes. "If needed, we will raise it further," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, SSP Lucknow Deepak Kumar suspended sub-inspector  , constables   and Ved Prakash deployed on night shift at Hazratganj police station and constables   and   of Gautampalli police station.
 
  Kumar has also formed a committee comprising ASP (east) and CO (Hazratganj) to probe the matter. "We need to identify the truck seen in CCTV footage before we take action. We are also investigating if there is any anti-social element involved," said Kumar. Farmers in the city have expressed displeasure over government policy on potato produce.
 
 
 
 Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) zonal president Hariram Verma said, “We get only Rs 4 per kg from the sale in open market, while the cost of production is Rs 10 per kg. Why is the government not regulating the price?”
 
 He also took a dig at the government for regulation of price even for people who get it for Rs 15-20 per kg despite an excessive produce.
 
 “We will sit on an indefinite strike if the prices are not regulated; not only of potato but also sugarcane and other vegetables,” said Verma.
 
 Uttar Pradesh agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi told reporters that the present state government was committed to the welfare of farmers, especially potato growers. “This appears to be some political conspiracy to defame the state government,” he alleged.
 
