Mysuru: As the city gears up for the festival of harvest –   – smiles are writ wide on the faces of coconut  , who are elated with the price of their crops touching a record high this year. On the retail market, the average   touched Rs 50, while particularly large ones were being sold at Rs 55.

 The surge in the price of   this year comes on the back of a prolonged fallow spell for the farmers, who bore huge losses owing to a slew of reasons including drought, eriyophidian mite attack, among others. The rise in price of their crop has helped the farmers enjoy a sizeable profit ahead of the Sankaranthi celebrations.
 
 Pandavapura MLA and farmer leader KS Puttananaiah, a coconut farmer himself, expressed surprise at the massive spike in the price of coconuts. “It’s a record price. Never before have I seen coconuts being sold at such high prices. However, owing to crop loss and decreased yield, coconuts are fetching a great price,” he said.
 
 Echoing Puttannaiah’s observations, traders at the city market too attributed the spurt in prices to reduction in the supply of coconuts. “Earlier, we received around 20 to 25 loads of coconuts to the market. But, it has nearly halved now. Naturally, this has resulted in the prices increasing. The price of coconuts is expected to touch Rs 60 on Monday (Sankranthi),” said Ramegowda, a coconut trader at Devaraja Market.
 
 He added, “We received loads from Mandya, Maddur and Tipaturu. Farmers from Hassan too brought their crops to Mysuru. However, suppliers from Hassan are now taking their produce to Bengaluru, where they are likely to get a better price.”
 
 The price of tender coconuts too has registered a bump in the city, rising from Rs 25 to Rs 30.
 
 Puttannaiah also attributed the rise in price to awareness among the general public on the effect of coconuts on a healthy lifestyle. “People are now drinking more tender coconut water in lieu of soft drinks, which has resulted in a huge demand for them. Farmers are getting a very good price for tender coconuts. There is a shortage of coconuts. Owing to drought, more than two crore coconuts have died in the state. These have resulted in the price of coconuts surging,” he said.
 
 While farmers are delighted with the rise in the price of coconuts,   are understandably upset with the same. “Sankranthi is just two days away. Coconuts are an integral part of the celebrations. Middle class families cannot afford to pay Rs 50 for a coconut,” said Raghavendra, a KR Mohalla resident, a retired employee.
 
 
