MUMBAI: Bullion trader Prithiviraj Kothari’s brother   and his associate Bharat Jain have been accused of using fugitive don Dawood Ibrahim’s help to usurp a Rs 500 crore   in  .

 Builder and property dealer   Agarwal lodged a complaint with Thane police’s anti-extortion cell alleging that Bhanwar   and Jain had forcibly taken over his 37 acre property with the help of Dawood, the don’s brothers Anis Ibrahim and Iqbal  . This, even as a civil suit in the case is pending before the Bombay high court.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “We have arrested Iqbal Kaskar in the case and are now looking for Kothari, Jain, Dawood and alleged landlord Tony Lewis. Since we took Kaskar’s custody, the accused have gone underground,” said investigating officer Vikas Godke. 
 
 While Bhawar was not reachable,   rubbished his brother’s involvement. “It is a fabricated case. If the police want to arrest Bhanwar, they should first issue summons. One, the complainant, Shyam Agarwal, is a fraudster. Two, the intelligence bureau too has raised doubts over the investigation. Three, I believe it is a new modus operandi adopted by the police to extort money,” Kothari told TOI. 
 
 This is the third case registered by the Thane anti-extortion cell against Kaskar. The Gorai land complaint was filed by Shyam Agarwal and Sanjay Punamiya, partners in Tirupati Balaji Enterprises. Punamiya is the same builder who had locked horns with the royal family of Kuwait over a Rs 70 crore Marine Drive flat in 2013.
 
 According to cops, in 2007, Balaji Enterprises had entered into an agreement with Lewis for purchasing the plot for Rs 15 crore. Balaji paid Rs 2 crore as token amount and the rest was to be paid on possession. Agarwal, though, learnt that Lewis had allegedly not settled dues incurred from buying the plot and he had begun to demand more money as prices went up.
 
 “As a dispute arose between them, Agarwal filed a civil suit in the Bombay high court. Soon, estate agent Vicky Mali and one Romel approached Agarwal and assured him of an ambicable settlement, for which they took Agarwal to a hotel in Thane’s Tempi Naka, where they made him speak to Iqbal Kaskar over a mobile phone. Kaskar threatened Agarwal to forget the plot saying that the D-Company was now interested in it. He then asked Agarwal to meet him,” said Godke. Later, Agarwal visited Kaskar’s residence at Dambarwala building in south Mumbai where Bhanwar and Bharat Jain were already present. When Agarwal told him he had paid Rs 2 crore for the plot, Kaskar allegedly threatened him with dire consequences and told him he should in fact pay him Rs 1 crore for protection. He allegedly ended up shelling out Rs 3 crore in all. Thane cops had earlier slapped charges under anti-organized crime law MCOCA against Kaskar and others in various cases.
 
 
