PATNA: The  , organised by the School of Education, Central University of South Bihar, concluded on Sunday. In technical session, Prof M M Salunkhe delivered talk on ‘Challenges and opportunities for digitalization in universities’ and ‘Innovation and leadership in higher education’. He said education is the most powerful weapon, which can be used to change the world. “Higher education is facing various challenges, like escalating market pressures, increasing unfunded mandates, declining public support, intensifying legislative oversight, accelerating pace of change and global competition,” he said. The session was coordinated by Rekha Agarwal.

 Hot air balloon festival: An eight-day adventurous event, ‘Hot air balloon festival’, organised by   (RIS) and Indirapuram Public School for Girls (IPSG), was inaugurated by Major General Sabharwal and Brigadier Vivek Verma of   on Sunday. Patnaites enjoyed the adventure carnival activities like hot air balloon, rappelling, zip line, reverse bungee and zorbing. Principal of RIS Colonel Prem Prakash and IPSG principal Arti Jha were also present.
 
 International School: The ‘Annual Spring Fete’, organised on   premises on Sunday, was full of fun activities. The fete was jointly inaugurated by former judge of Patna high court Samrendra Pratap Singh, Paras HMRI’s surgeon Dr A A Hai, school patron M Hasan, directress Farhat Hasan and managing committee member Subia Hasan. The guests also released this year’s school magazine, ‘The Quest’. This issue has been based on the theme of ‘Unity in diversity’. The guests visited all the stalls and enjoyed various gaming activities. There were more than 25 games and food stalls for the visitors. Principals and students of other schools also visited the fete.
 
 Leed International School: Leed International School organised an ‘Exhibition-cum-talent hunt’ on its campus on Sunday. More than 100 students exhibited their scientific models. Students explained about their models in a very impressive way. The school also organized a free training session for its students in activities like dancing, singing and painting. The programme was graced by MLC Ranveer Nandan. School principal Bijay Kumar Sahu appreciated the students’ work.
 
 
