Living room is the most important part of our house. And that is why it is important to make the room as lively and inviting as possible. Of course, you can’t buy new furniture or spend big bucks redoing your room every few months, but there are pocket-friendly ways that you can engage to redecorate your room. 

 Here’s how:
 
 
 
 The colour of your living room can determine the ambience of the entire house. So use colours that give off a warm vibe. Strategically, choose one side of the wall and highlight it with a dark colour. Make this wall look personalised by adding a few photos or paintings. Always use light-coloured curtains to bring in more sunlight to your living room.
 
 
 
 
 You can always add new things to your living room without going out and spending big bucks on it. Borrow items from other rooms and place them in your living room. Also, there might be many things in your storage like old mats, wall-hangings or other   items that can give your living room an exciting facelift.
 
 
 
 
 Plants are always a good addition to living rooms and is one of the best ways to brighten up a place. Have two to three plants in your living area. You could have one on the centre/side table and one near the window.
 
 
 
 
 If you’re creative and artistic then this is the best way to add life to your living room. Find simple and easy DIY decoratives like lanterns, lamps, canvas paintings or fairy light jars to give your living room a personal touch.
 
 
 
 
 Lighting plays an important role in your living room. Invest in fancy table lamps and place them in the corners. Even if you choose to go with white lights, you can always switch to table lamps.
 
 
 
 
 Has your sofa become worn out? You can always trade it in for something new or get a second-hand one online. But if you are not too keen on spending too much, try changing the covers. Use colours that go well with the colour of your wall. For instance, if you have white walls, pick a contrasting colour for your sofa. Changing the covers does not just perk up your space, it also works out cheaper. All you have to do is buy some good pillows.
 
 
 
 
 Your collections are your priceless possessions. Display them appropriately. If you have books then arrange them in a specific order in a shelf. If you collect ceramic or glass, organise them creatively. But remember not to clutter and crowd your living room.
 
 
 
 
