PUNE: The city’s organ donation movement, which took off in a big way in 2016, is expected to touch new highs this year.

 In the first two months of this year, the relatives of 15 brain-dead patients agreed to donate vital organs of their kin, benefiting over 60 patients suffering from various life-threatening diseases. In the last week alone (February 19-25), vital organs of four brain-dead patients, including two homemakers, gave a new life to 12 people undergoing treatment at different hospitals in Pune and Nashik.
 
 Rekha Dubey, chief executive officer (CEO),   (ABMH), said, “Our doctors carried out two successive organ transplants back to back on February 19 and February 20.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The organ retrievals and transplants were undertaken by a combined team of doctors from Global Hospital (Thane) and Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital (Pune). “In both the cases, the deceased donors were homemakers in their 40s hailing from Pune. Both had suffered from brain haemorrhage, resulting in brain stem death. The donors’ families expressed willingness for organ donation,” Dubey said
 
 The donated livers benefitted a 54-year-old housewife from Sangli and a 60-year-old man from Mumbai. The homemakers’ donated kidneys helped a 20-year-old girl student and 37-year-old IT professional suffering from end stage renal failure. 
 
 “One kidney was allotted to a hospital in Nashik and the other to a hospital in Pune. Deceased donor organ allotment is done in consultation with ZTCC where the waiting list is maintained,” Dubey said.
 
 In another organ donation at the Ahmednagar Road branch of Sahyadri hospital on February 21, relatives of a 57-year-old brain-dead homemaker donated her liver and kidneys. “Her liver benefited a 62-year-old man from Akola suffering from liver cirrhosis and liver cancer,” liver transplant surgeon   said.
 
 On February 25, relatives of a 52-year-old brain-dead man donate his liver and kidneys at a hospital in Nashik. The liver was transported in an ambulance via green corridor to Pune to benefit a 56-year-old patient suffering from end-stage liver disease at Jupiter hospital in Baner.
 
 Commenting on the rising trend, Vibhute said, “Due to the increased awareness, the mindset of people is slowly changing and families are coming forward to donate organs of their brain-dead relatives.”
 
 “The awareness that one organ donation can save up to nine lives has helped a lot. Even the media has played a key role in creating awareness,” Vibhute added.
 
 Transplant coordinator Aarti Gokhale of the   (ZTCC), Pune region, said, “Organ donation has increased tremendously over the last three years. Success rate of organ transplants post their donation has played a big role in changing the perception among other factors.”
 
 
