VADODARA: During 66th convocation of MS University, 171 girls and 92 boys were awarded   medals. But there were also some students from medicine, technology and engineering and commerce faculties who received five to six medals each at the ‘We are proud of you’ event held on Monday evening.

 Shivam Shah, son of doctor couple, is the fourth person to get gold medal in his family. Shah, who wants to specialize in orthopaedic like his father Rajiv, was awarded six medals. Two years back Shah’s sister too had got six medals and during their days, his father and mother had one gold medal each. Shah said that he would like to create awareness among the people living in rural areas so that they do not go to quacks for treatment.
 
 Just like Shah, Kishan Thakkar from Faculty of Technology and Engineering received six gold medals. Son of a computer hardware repairer and a tailor, Thakkar wants to either pursue MBA or prepare for civil services exam. As of now he is working as apprentice at  .
 
 The lucky girl Masarrat Surti, who got Chancellor’s medal from President Ram Nath Kovind in the morning bagged five gold medals, which is the highest in commerce faculty. Surti said that she felt very proud while receiving medal from the President. Ayushi Khatri from metallurgy and material engineering also received five gold medals. Another student from medicine faculty, Sachi Banker, received five gold medals. Banker too wants to become a cardiac surgeon.
 
 Son of Padma Shri award winner Dr Subroto Das’s son Shukanto was the first student of molecular and cell biology course to get gold medal. Shukanto, who plans to make Vadodara a CPR city, had received medal after finishing his under-graduation too. Shukanto is aiming to pursue another post-graduation in public health.
 
 Sanskrit brought her to her roots
 
 Born in Muscat, Oman and after spending 12 years in USA, she could have pursued course in European studies or semitic studies, but her roots encouraged Mittal Trivedi to pursue course in Sanskrit in India. After finishing Vyakaran Shastra from Baroda Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, Trivedi got two gold medals. “Sanskrit has been studied by so many scholars from different countries but nowadays in India we link it to ‘dharma’ which is not religion,” she said. She plans to develop a program in Sanskrit after going back to USA where her family lives.
 
 Twins remain neck-and-neck in medal tally
 
 Since school days Jyoti and Kirti Tiwari’s results used to be neck-and-neck and that is what turned out to be in their post-graduate course in Sanskrit too. Born as twins, Jyoti and Kirti got two and one gold medals respectively. They plan to take up BEd so that they can teach Sanskrit.
 
 
