PATNA: After almost spending 16 years in different rented accommodations, the Patna frontier of the Sashastra Seema Bal ( ) is likely to get its own   for constructing its headquarters building in Patna. 

 After several rounds of talks with the state government, the SSB has been allotted 2.5 acre land worth at least Rs76 crore from the 400 acre plot of   (BSHB) at Rajeev Nagar for construction of its frontier headquarters. The SSB is awaiting a nod from Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) in this regard.
 
 A senior SSB officer said the Patna frontier has forwarded the proposal to the MHA for its approval before initiating the process of acquiring the land and floating tenders for architectural design of the building followed by its construction.
 
 “The Patna frontier headquarters will have multistoried administrative building and at least 250 quarters for its officers, personnel and their family members. That apart, it will have barracks for at least 300 personnel, medical unit, parks, mess, armoury and several other facilities,” the officer said, adding that the target would be to complete the construction work within three years after the grant of approval.
 
 “The process to identify land was going on since 2009. In 2010, we had finalized a plot, but it was rejected after litigation started over it,” the officer said.
 
 With more than 15,000 personnel, the SSB Patna frontier headquarters commands 12 static battalions deployed on Indo-Nepal international border while three battalions in   and two more in   are involved in anti-Maoist operations.
 
 BSHB sources said the land has been earmarked for SSB and as soon as they initiate the process for payment, steps to transfer the ownership of land would begin. “The land has been allotted to SSB on market value rate (MVR) which is almost Rs96 lakh for one kattha of land,” BSHB sources said, adding once purchased, it would be a permanent asset of SSB.
 
 They also said additional 20 acre has also been earmarked in the same area for SSB for static battalion headquarters in Patna. “However, SSB has shown priority for the 2.5 acre plot for building the frontier headquarters,” BSHB sources said.
 
 
