MUMBAI: An 11-acre plot abutting Juhu beach towards the Khar-Danda side has been levelled and large swathes of green allegedly destroyed for a casting yard for the  , said activists.

 Open spaces campaigners who visited the site on Monday said this is yet another “senseless act” to ruin public spaces. “A prime portion off Juhu beach has been destroyed over the last 15 days by cutting mangroves to clear the area for a casting yard by the contractor. How any Metro work can be done on a beach is beyond understanding,” said activist Zoru Bhatena.
 
 Hansel D’Souza, founder president of Juhu Citizens’ Welfare Group, said he will be filing a complaint with the district coastal zone management committee to take action against the contractor. “Obviously, the mangroves have been destroyed without permission. This is a no development zone plot and is in the coastal regulation zone I (CRZ I),” he said.
 
 Nitin Killawala, architect and activist, said the casting yard is bigger than at   for the Metro III route. MMRDA is executing the Metro project that will connect the western suburbs to Mankhurd. “It’s is a 11 acre government land that has been allotted to us six years ago. MMRDA can use this land for its project, including the setting up of casting yard. There are no mangroves on the plot. The land comes under the coastal regulation zone II under which such activities are permitted,” said MMRDA’s joint project director (public relations) Dilip Kawathkar. MMRDA officials cited the example of the casting yard for another Metro project at  .
 
 
  
  
 
 Juhu-based activist   said the state government has been “hellbent” on destroying forests, lakes and now beaches. “The city has suffered so much because of these projects. In the name of development, you cannot destroy the city’s open spaces and green areas. The chief minister must sit with citizens and discuss this matter,” he said.
 
 Prabhakar Gawde, a resident of Juhu-Koliwada, said mangrove cutting started about a fortnight ago. “When we enquired, they said the government had given the land for the Metro project,” he told TOI. Bhatena sourced imagery from   that show the existence of mangroves. Locals said the greenery has now been completely cleared at the site.
 
 “The BMC’s 1991 Development Plan shows mangroves at the site. Even if there are no mangroves right now, still mangrove and forest cell approvals are required for plots marked as mangrove plots in CRZ. There are some types of mangroves which are seasonal and destroying their natural habitat is not permissible in law,’’ he said.
 
 The Metro IIB corridor is being constructed at a cost of Rs 10,986 crore. “This is a sandy beach with buildings on only one side. Even if it is assumed it is in CRZ-II, the project needs CRZ clearance. We do not know if other approvals such as that from the Maritime Board, BMC have been obtained,” said architect P K Das.
 
 TIMES VIEW: Even if requisite permissions have been obtained in order to utilise the plot for a casting yard, the authorities must ensure that it is restored to its original position once the work, which is of a temporary nature, is over. The city cannot afford to lose any more green cover.
 
 
