He sees society through his fret board. “Around 15 years ago, I gave up teaching (guitar) and Jayashree (Singh) was furious. She said, ‘You can’t stop teaching. It is your service to society’. And I started teaching again,” says  , arguably one of the best guitarists in town. Even today, when he sets fire in the six strings, he looks composed and poised. “For me, playing the guitar is like breathing. It comes so naturally to me that I don’t even notice.” In a candid chat with CT, Amyt talks about his brand new band  , his life and losses. Excerpts.

  
 
 
  (Laughs) I changed it to avoid confusion. I have a friend, Amit Chatterjee, who used to play the guitar with many international musicians. There’s also guitarist Amit Heri, who used to live in Bangalore and now lives in Hawaii. So, people used to constantly confuse us and say, “I loved what you played that night’. And I would be like, ‘It wasn’t me. It was that Amit’. Which Amit? Heri’? ‘No, Chatterjee’. Solid confusion (laughs)! So, I changed the spelling. To top it all, the owner of the rock magazine, Rock Street Journal, was also Amit Saigal. We planned a concert to be organised by Amit Saigal, where all three of us would play. Butbefore this could happen, Amit Saigal died. 
 
  
 
 
  I actually planned ZIBA. The music scene in Kolkata — as well as the rest of the country — is in a pretty bad shape. In Mumbai, it is different. People get to earn from Bollywood and spend time in creating music. Six months back, I was wondering what we could do to make the Kolkata scene more vibrant. The kind of music that I usually play (with   and the Acoustic Quartet) is pretty complex and it reaches only a niche audience. I wanted to make something that people could sing along with. But I also wanted to incorporate some complexities — the kind of music I enjoy as a craftsman. I knew Arko (Mukherjee) could sing in different languages — Bengali, Santhali, French African and so on. The bassist Aakash Ganguly plays with me in Acoustic Quartet. I had him in mind. Now I needed just a drummer and a percussionist. So Ludo (Ritoban Das) and Tukai (Deboprotim Baksi) came on board. I want ZIBA’s music to be popular. But just popularity doesn’t give me satisfaction if it isn’t my kind of music. My niece named it ZIBA. In Persian, it means fighting for good.
 
  
 
  No matter what people say, Kolkata has never been a happening place for music. Here, it has always been a secondary choice after people get a ‘real’ job. But it can’t be a part-time thing. You have to give all your life to do what I am doing. Moreover, there is too much of tax if you have a band and so hotels and pubs won’t have us. A band means four/ five guys and the sound system and so on. That involves money. Where will that come from? It is easier to have a DJ. One guy, one car, one console. He will play hit tracks and the job is done. So that took over. There is also this movie culture, you know. I hear words like dhamaka, masala — that can’t be my music. And that is the kind of music that money is being invested in. If I say I am playing, there is no money. If I say I am playing and Shah Rukh Khan is going to play the guitar with me, crores will come.
 
  
 
 
  I don’t believe in this myth of Kolkata being the cultural hub. Once upon a time, very briefly, perhaps in and around Calcutta 16 — the   area. Arguments like ‘western music is not our culture’, ‘oposankskriti’ completely ruined the music scene. The government also doesn’t do anything for musicians. If there is a flood or some other crisis, the government wants musicians to do shows and raise funds. But in our daily life, the same government doesn’t even pay lip-service to the betterment of the musicians. The music academy it builds run shabbily and no one is there to take care. Ravi Shankar and Nikhil Banerjee are from this here. We should have coffee bars and tea corners where sitarists and sarod players jam. I don’t see buskers on the streets saying hello to passers-by and singing. If it happens, only then we can say yes, this is the City of Joy and this is a cultural hub.
 
  
 
 
  Ludo, Tukai, many other band members have learned from me and Kochuda. Ami opore shekhatam, Kochuda niche shekhato. All these city bands — Cactus, Fossils, Chandrabindoo — they all started from, or are in some way connected to that house. They would come, take two guitar players from my class and a drummer from Kochuda’s class and form their bands (laughs).
 
  
 
 
  I had to cope with Jayashree’s death. I was the last person she spoke to. She was fighting for her life. I knew she was going to die and when I called her I knew I was speaking to her for the last time. Gyan (Singh) died. Kochuda died. I am handling life. I have to still live. To live, I have to breathe, and for me, guitar is also part of my breath. Like the way I can’t stop living, I can’t stop playing.
 
 
