Trichy: The much-needed move aimed at sterilising 1,300 stray dogs here has hit a major road block as the sterilisation drive has been abandoned for the past one month due to the   to trap the canines for animal birth control procedures. Besides, with only 13 kennels available in the lone dog shelter of the entire city and a maximum of 150 dogs could be neutered per month, the ongoing drive would not solve the purpose as the breeding of stray dogs would continue in the city simultaneously, sources said.

 According to sources, there are about 10,000 canines identified as stray dogs loitering in the 65 wards classified under four zones of the civic body. Earlier in August 2017, the urban local body (ULB) entrusted the   (AWARD) for catching at least 1,300 stray dogs in the city as part of canine birth control practice during the financial year 2017-2018. Between August 2017 and December 2017, it is said that 496 dogs were caught and sterilised in the city limits.
 
 Among the 65 wards, only 40 were said to be covered by the civic body in   and 25 are still reeling under   menace and subsequent breeding of the animal as winter is under way.
 
 Meanwhile, since December 5, 2017, the   drive has not taken place due to the absence of skilled labourers to trap the animals without injuring the animal. As special skills are required to trap the animal either under lassoing or butterfly method (both accepted by AWBI), sources involved in sterilisation drive claimed labourers with such skills are difficult to source.
 
 The hiatus in dog catching drive would certainly impact the populace of stray dogs in the city as winter which is underway would witness heavy breeding of the stray canines. “As corporation collects waste from doorstep, food waste moving to public bins has come down. Stray dogs that depend heavily on such food waste, and in the absence of food, these canines target the pedestrians,” said M Sekaran, president of federation of consumer service organisations.
 
 Also, since the neutered dogs have to be accommodated in the 13 kennels for a maximum of one week to enable the suture heal, their limited availability slows down the entire birth control process. “Unless and until we have additional kennels to house more stray dogs, the sterilisation drive will not solve the purpose. By the time we catch dogs and neuter those, simultaneously breeding would happen in some other parts of city. We need at least 150 kennels to completely sterilise 10,000 odd stray dogs in city within two years,” a source involved in dog catching drive said.
 
 Corporation sources said that work is on to find a suitable place for expanding the kennel facilities in the city. 
 
 
