BANGARMAU ( ): When it comes to solemnising marriage, majority of people go all out to check for the compatibility of horoscopes or `kundalis' of prospective bride or a groom. 

 But in Prem Ganj, one of the three pockets of Bangarmau town of Unnao district which hogged limelight after detection of alarming number of HIV positive cases, there is something more important than checking for the compatibility of ones horoscope or `kundali':"People, who are coming with proposals here have started insisting to get a 'No HIV' certificates from locals. Majority of locals however have wisely accepted their demand and went for HIV test to avoid hurdles in future," confirmed Sunil Kumar, a local corprator.
 
 The unusual condition came under spotlight when at least 58 persons were tested HIV positive in three localities of Bangarmau town, including Prem Ganj, Chakmir and Kirmidiyapur, after a quack had allegedly used infected syringes to treat scores of his patients.
 
  (name change), a private worker, hails from the Prem Ganj pocket, one of the same pocket and a bride was chosen for him from Tirwa area of Kannauj district. Their marriage is slated to take place in the upcoming marriage season soon after Holi festival.
 
 On Monday last, the parents of the girl, however, told Muneeshwar's parents that they had to abide by certain conditions prior to the wedding to take place in the first week of March.
 
 The boy's side agreed and Muneeshwar underwent the necessary medical tests at the private hospital on Friday. 
 
 "On Saturday, when he got the result, Muneeshwar and his family members heaved a sigh of relief as he had tested negative for HIV," informed a relative of Muneeshwar, who had played a role of mediator while talking to TOI and added that he had received a doctor’s certificate, stating that he was not an HIV carrier.
 
 When the parents and siblings of the bride were informed about the results, they too were elated and gave their final consent asking Muneeshwars family to come with a `baraat' on March 4.
 
 This unusual demand may upset some people in our traditional society who might even call of a marriage, but both the sides are praiseworthy, said Dr I S Gilada, President of AIDS Society of India. 
 
 "While one side voluntarily adhere to their demands and the other side without fear that their demand may invite trouble, instead exhibited guts and ask groom to undergo HIV screening, both sides are praiseworthy. This way we can ensure better medical compatibility between partners."
 
 Potato grower Deepak (name change), a resident of Kirmidiyapur, another pocket from where several tested HIV positive, whose daughters marriage was being fixed in Asothar area of Unnao was taken aback when he was asked by groom side to produce a certificate that his daughter was HIV-free. "I took my daughter to VCTC (Voluntary 
 Counseling and Testing Centre), where she tested negative. I did not want to take any risk since my daughter’s marriage was being finalised," Deepak said.
 
 "It is a positive approach towards disease. It shows that people are becoming aware of the disease," chief medical officer   said further.
 
