Not many would know that   baddie,  , has deep family roots in Tamil Nadu. Sharing some fond childhood memories,   recalls how he loved playing in the Marina beach with his mama during summer vacation as a six-year old. The actor, who was recently in the city for a brand shoot, talks to us about all of it — from cinema to business, and his weakness for South Indian food. Excerpts from the interview:

 
 I love acting in Tamil cinema. I have decided quite consciously to do at least one good film every year in Tamil. I also would love to do films in Telugu, at least one every alternate year. Interestingly, this year I am doing a biggie with Ram Charan Teja in Telugu, which is being directed Boyapati Srinu. We have just started shooting and it is expected to be ready by Deepavali. 
 
 Language doesn’t seem to be a barrier for me to do films in the south. I enjoy the work experience, and the culture here is quite amazing. It’s great to see people who are really passionate, committed and very professional in what they do. The pace in which Kollywood works is exciting, by the time it’s time for breakfast, we would have already shot 25 per cent of the day’s work. 
 
 I have a lot of friends in Kollywood. I enjoy a very warm relationship with many actors, actresses, directors and producers, here. Whenever I am here, I try to catch up with them. 
 
 
 I worked with Ajith anna in Vivegam and the experience was amazing. He is like an elder brother to me — so caring and loving and a great actor to work with. He is also somebody who takes care of everyone on the set. He is like the captain of a ship. While working with him, I found out that he has no ego and he never interferes with the work. Even after achieving so much in his career, he is so grounded.
 
 I have never met a humble superstar like him before. And it’s not like he does things like this to impress somebody, it’s his natural personality. There’s so much to learn from that humility and grace. I am still in touch with him and love to work with him.
 
 
 I don’t believe in the concept of negative or positive roles. Many Bollywood actors do negative roles in south films, but I don’t think there are getting stereotyped. I disagree with the concept of negative, grey, or such categorisation of roles.I think it is an age-old concept. Today the world has changed so much. People who are considered as heroes also play negative roles, don’t they? So you have superstars playing villain roles, and the audiences are mature enough to appreciate the actors for their acting skills. Earlier, when we used to have villains and heroes, people used to be scared to go to a villain and take pictures with him. That was the way audience perceived villains back then. But today, people appreciate actors for their performance. I don’t look at roles in terms of colour, I look at the impact. If the role is powerful, it will make a good impact. 
 
 
 I came to know of the political entry of Rajini sir and Kamal sir from newspapers and television. I don’t have any deep knowledge of the political scenario here. I know them as two brilliant film personas whom I love and appreciate for their work over the years. I have met both of them multiple times. I am more of a junior, upcoming artiste, in comparison to them in acting. I look up to them for inspiration and am in awe of their wonderful work. I remember coming to my periamma’s house as a kid here; I was barely six or seven years old then and remember watching Rajini sir’s Billa. I also remember Kamal sir’s Sakalakala Vallavan and some other masala films (laughs). But I would say that they had created an impact in me as early as then. I don’t believe in mentioning some actor as a favourite one and others as not so favourite. I love them for their performances in movies that I remember for life. Whether it’s watching Rajini sir in a film like Chandramukhi or Padaiyappa or Enthiran, or Ajith anna in Vedalam or a Vijay film — I appreciate actors for their acting skills and they become my favourites for their respective roles. You see, everybody in Hindi cinema remembers Kamal sir for his role in Sadma with  . 
 
 
 My mother is from Chennai and I have a lot of relatives here. My akka, thangachi, chinnamma’s daughter and maama live here. I have so many memories with my maama and periamma here — the incredible memories of playing on the Marina beach, visiting parks, and so on. My periamma used to take me around Chennai in her old ambassador car and buy me new shoes and clothes. I used to sing nani teri morni ko mor le gaye and make her happy so that she will get me new clothes (laughs). Those were the little joys back then and I was much more fluent in Tamil when I was a kid. Chennai used to be my summer vacation destination. Our family has tea gardens in Coonoor and I used to go there, too. I have relatives in Coimbatore, Erode and other parts of Tamil Nadu. It’s a great state with incredible people, unbelievably beautiful culture and deep literary roots. Even today when I read the translation of Tamil lyrics, it appeals to me. I think there is some magic in those songs.
 
 
 South Indian food is my weakness. Right now, I am on a strict diet to get fit for an upcoming TV show. But when I am in Chennai, I can’t go back without eating the meals at Saravana Bhavan, and you can find me there for most of the time. When I start eating, I eat four times more than what I am supposed to eat. Whenever I am in Chennai, I can never be on a diet. I am a fan of typical south Indian food — I like vada, idly, different types of dosai, uttapam, colourful chutneys, the different types of kozhambu made with eggplant, food made with coconut and coconut milk, keerai, and all the porials — there are so many varieties. You get biryani everywhere, but the taste of authentic south Indian food, we can’t get even in the best south Indian restaurants in Mumbai.
 
 
 I am looking forward to invest in the southern market as we have a lot of talented people here with great ideas, who build continuously new products and solutions. I personally believe that south Indians are more sharp and constantly creative. It would be a smart thing to invest here from a business perspective.
 
