GUWAHATI: The   (NGT) has directed the state government to constitute a committee to identify movement of elephants in and around  , a wildlife sanctuary on the outskirts of the city, and to find out the extent to which railway tracks have "encroached" into elephant corridors in and around the area. 

 The eastern zone bench of NGT, Kolkata, in an order issued on Thursday, has asked the government to constitute the committee with the state government's chief secretary as the chairman and the principal secretary of   as the convener. Other members of the committee will be the general manager of NF Railway, the principal chief conservator of forest director of   and the principal secretary of revenue department.
 
 The decision was taken following a suggestion from the applicant's advocate   on the need to identify elephant corridors and to undertake long-term measures to prevent encroachment. 
 
 NGT passed the order while hearing a petition which was filed by environmental activist Rohit Choudhury in 2014 against damages being done to Deepor Beel, a Ramsar site, due to pollution and encroachment. The tribunal has also entrusted the committee to make proposals for permanent measures that can be adopted by the railways to prevent encroachment.
 
 "The mitigation measures shall include construction of underpass or over-bridges to make the corridors free for the unhindered movement of elephants and other animals in the forest area and in Deepor Beel," the tribunal said. The committee will hold an "adequate number" of meetings within 30 days from now, it added.
 
 During the hearing on Thursday, the state government submitted an affidavit to NGT in which it was stated that NF Railway, one of the respondents, has conducted the survey of an area for a second railway track that will pass through a part of the sanctuary which is used by elephants. 
 
 These new tracks would have been an addition to the already existing one that passes through the fringe of the wetland. NGT has directed that the work on this second track should not proceed further. The tribunal has also asked the railway to submit a compliance report on March 14.
 
 
