PATNA: The much-hyped 102   service seems to have failed in its purpose as most of these vehicles have neither emergency medicines nor technical staff and at times no fuel and driver as well. 

 Sources involved in managing the service said Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) has two ambulances under 102 service. One has a driver and two emergency technicians (EMTs) while the other has only a driver with no EMT. The ambulances have been provided with oxygen, but no medicine. 
 
 Rajesh Kumar, an ambulance driver at PMCH, works for 30 days a month. “If a patient requires medicine, we ask the attendant to get it. There is no spare driver to relieve me. We continuously work for 12 hours against eight hours schedule,” he said.
 
 The two Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) ambulances have not been provided with diesel since December 28. “The hospital administration told us they had not enough funds to provide fuel for the ambulances. My salary has been due for the past three months. We also went to   ( ), but could not get a satisfactory answer,” said Kamlesh Kumar, who drives an ambulance of  . Before fuel scarcity, they used to serve around 300 patients per month.
 
 NMCH superintendent Dr A P Singh said on Wednesday the hospital did not receive funds for fuel from the SHSB. “We also received an order from SHSB to submit the two 102 ambulances to them. We did it two days back,” he added. 
 
 Sonu Kumar, who is a driver in Motihari, said they usually get diesel of Rs500 per day, which is not enough to take patients referred to Patna, which is around 150km. “I was also stranded once at a petrol pump a few kilometres away from Patna as there was no fuel in the vehicle,” he said.
 
 “We were working under the district health society for the past three years. We were told that the drivers and ambulances had been transferred under consortium of   and  , which are managing 102 service. We have not been provided salary for the past six months and we have no appointment letter to prove that we work for the company,” said Amit Kr Pandey, 102 ambulance driver from Nalanda.
 
 “There are over 995 ambulances in the state under 102 service with over 4000 drivers and EMTs. We will stage protests in different districts from January 15 if our problems are not resolved by January 14,” said Bihar Rajkiya Chikitsa Karmchari Sangh President Chandra Prakash Singh. 
 
 However, SHSB officials said the scarcity of fuel was due to the transfer of ambulances to the agency responsible for running the service. “Earlier, the government medical colleges managed the ambulances, including fuel, medicines and salary of drivers. With the impending confusion due to the transfer of charge and the shift in mode of payment, this problem has arisen. The contract has already been signed. Soon, the agency will directly handle the appointment of drivers, fuel and funds,” said Ravish Kumar, in charge of referral transport and infrastructure at SHSB.
 
 Talking about the 102 ambulances at NMCH, he said no order had been issued in this regard. “The order is regarding the transfer of charge. The fuel, as of now, should have been provided by the hospital administration. Health minister Mangal Pandey has, in fact, asked us to provide two more 102 ambulances to NMCH,” said Kumar.
 
 
