KOLKATA: The   ( ) says it may take two more years for its students to make their superiority felt in national-level entrance examinations, including the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination ( ).

 
  
 
 Several educationists have expressed dissatisfaction over the efficacy of a much-vaunted syllabus revamp and questiontype modifications that began three years ago that aimed to bring HS students on a par with those from other boards. Critics have said HS students have not fared perceptively better since in national entrance examinations, and even this year’s WBJEE, where not a single candidate from the HS board managed to figure in the top 10. The council said on Thursday that two more years would be required to find out whether the changes have brought about the desired results.
 
 “It will take at least two years for the improvement to be felt. According to the reports, 64% candidates from Bengal have been successful, and in the board-wise analysis, 47% students from the HS board have succeeded in the top 1,05,081who have qualified for counselling,” said  , the WBHSC president. “The number,” she added, “is not grim, as only around 85,000 students opt to study science in HS.... We rather see the success and take pride because we believe the situation is improving, and that HS board students will do even better in the future. Of the total number of students taking up science, not everyone had taken the WBJEE. I am trying to analyse the results from a different point of view.”
 
 A council official said top-10 figures were not the final aspiration anyway. “There are several students who would prefer to take up research-oriented subjects for graduation. Only a percentage has applied for entrance examinations,” he said.
 
 The council has published mock test papers to assist interested students in cracking engineering and medical entrance tests. Also, efforts are under way to take up more measures to help students from Bengalimedium schools to secure better ranks in national entrance exams. “We have also noticed that students give more importance in securing better marks in HS, which could be one of the reasons for students bagging poorer JEE ranks,” Das pointed out. “Progress is taking place as most students from rural Bengal study without any tutorial assistance. They are also first-generation learners,” said Das.
 
 Others, however, were not too optimistic about a possible change. “This will keep on happening and state board students will suffer forever,” said Partha Pratim Biswas, a teacher at  . “JEE or other entrance examinations are elimination tests. The engineering admissions tests are screening and not an evaluation exam like the Class XII exam. It requires special training, which is only available in urban pockets. In cities and tier I towns, the concentration of CBSE- and ISC-affiliated schools is significantly denser. Thus, students from places like Kolkata, Burdwan, Durgapur, Kharagpur, Asansol and others are more likely to succeed. The middle-raking candidates may or may not come from secondand third-tier towns. But the toppers will always be from cities,” was his analysis.
 
 He said that despite students who were in the top-ten percentile both in HS and other boards, it was interesting that those from other boards were tasting more success in JEE as well.
 
