NEW DELHI/MUMBAI: Amid protests by the Opposition, the   on Wednesday passed the   and the Appropriations Bill without debate after some of the tax proposals were tweaked. 

 
 This is only the third time since 2000 that the Budget has been passed without discussion as Opposition parties blocked proceedings, leading to the lower House being adjourned for the eighth consecutive session since reassembling on March 5.   minister   moved 21 amendments to the Finance Bill, which was passed by a voice vote and so was the Appropriations Bill containing the spending proposals for 2018-19.
 
 The modified tax proposals include changes to the long-term capital gains ( ) tax regime for stocks and mutual funds, which will be reintroduced after nearly 15 years. 
 
 It has reintroduced the concept of indexation benefit for sale of those shares that were unlisted on January 31, 2018, but sold post an IPO. This will provide relief to founders of startups, their investors and also employees, who were allotted unlisted shares under an   plan. Capital gains is the difference between sale proceeds minus the cost of acquisition. Availability of the indexation benefit will increase the cost of acquisition, lower the quantum of capital gains and thus the tax outgo. 
 
 The Budget 2018 had introduced tax at 10% on LTCG of more than Rs 1 lakh, arising on sale of listed securities, on or after April 1 this year. It had also removed the indexation benefit (which is an application of the cost inflation index to the purchase price). To soften the blow it had provided that appreciation in value of shares from the date of purchase up to January 31, 2018 would be grandfathered, if the shares were acquired before February 1, 2018. The Budget proposal had not addressed the issue of grandfathering those shares that were acquired when they were unlisted, but sold post-listing.
 
 "With the amendment to the Finance Bill, tabled today, this ambiguity has been resolved. In case of shares unlisted as of January 31, 2018, the cost of acquisition shall be indexed based on the cost inflation index (CII) for the financial year 2017-18 (which is 272). For the base, the CII prevailing as on the year of purchase of these shares or as of April 1, 2001 (where the CII is 100), which ever is later, shall be used. The rate of tax shall remain the same at 10%," said  , director, people advisory services at EY India.
 
 Others, however, said a part of the concern has been addressed. "It does not go all the way but to some extent it does help private companies that will go public in future," said Abhishek Goenka, partner at consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers.
 
 While there was good news for foreigners doing one-off transactions in India by relaxing the requirement for using PAN, for those having digital transactions, the rules were tightened further.
 
 
