Cash crunch at ATMs of nationalised and private banks continued in Andhra Pradesh,  ,  , Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, with panic withdrawals of money dampening the festive spirit on  . 

 The cash shortage also hit the Char Dham Yatra, which began from Haridwar, on Wednesday. Empty ATMs greeted the first batch of pilgrims undertaking the yatra. Hotel owners and taxi operators in Uttarkashi, the main town near the Gangotri and Yamunotri shrines which opened on Wednesday, said inadequate availability of cash might spoil the first phase of the yatra season. 
 
 A hotel association official said, “The Char Dham yatra is the backbone of our economy. Thousands of people wait to make money this time of the year. Many hotel owners and tour operators repay their loans with the income they make from the yatra. But due to cash shortage, tourists won’t spend much.” 
 
  
  
 
 The Cash Management Committee, comprising 10 banks, called an emergency meeting to take stock of the situation in Telangana, which had reported over 48% dry ATMs on Tuesday. The CMC said it would try to improve cash availability at ATMs from 52% to 75%. State   chief general manager of Hyderabad circle, J Swaminathan, told TOI on Wednesday: “All banks will have to take steps to move currency from cashsurplus locations. Each bank will have to furnish cash balances and ATM availability daily. There was an increase in cash withdrawals due to festivals. Many people rushed to ATMs at the same time.” Wedding plans suffered the most in Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 Sandeep Thakur, who is getting married on Thursday, said, “There is no cash in the house. I have been struggling to withdraw money.” Several pockets in   reported severe cash crunch, with Aurangabad being the worst-hit. Monika Yadav, from Aurangabad, said she checked ATMs but could not withdraw money. “I was planning to shop for Akshaya Tritiya, but could not do as I had no cash,” she said. 
 
 Scenes reminiscent of post-demonetisation days played out in some pockets of Kolkata with “No Cash” signs hanging outside several ATMs even as queues of anxious citizens built up in front of others. Around 3pm, a “No Cash” sign was hung outside a Bank of India’s ATM on Central Avenue. A few metres away, at the State Bank of India ATM, a sign was found saying, the machine will dispense Rs2,000 notes. 
 
 With only Rs2,000 notes being available at many ATMs, customers waiting in queues said this was similar to what had happened after demonetisation. “An uncertainty reigned those days and that seems to be returning. There are either Rs2,000 notes in some ATMs or no money at all. We hope the crisis will be mitigated before it gets acute,” said Pratap Mukherjee, disappointed on finding the SBI ATM at Calcutta University branch shut.
 
