In the latest episode of  ,   and   are about to meet Hirimbamalla’s father  .

 The servants offer fruits to them. Parul and Raghav hide in the plate full of fruits. Buro Baba suddenly guesses there must be a human being inside the room.
 
 Parul and Raghav get tensed as they fear they might get caught. But Buro Baba isn't able to see them as Parul and Raghav shrink themselves.
 
  is upset since she is unable to find Parul. Moreover other giants ridicule her for marrying a human being. Her father Hirimbamalla observes that she is upset. He tries to console her. She informs him about Parul and Raghav.
 
 Parul comes up with an idea. Parul turns herself back to the previous state. She approaches Buro Baba and introduces herself as his granddaughter. Parul says that she is the daughter of Gom Bhangani Buri.
 
 Mallicka tells her father that the solar eclipse will take place tomorrow. She wants to kill Parul on that day.
 
 Buro Baba doubts that Parul might not be a giant. The latter tries to melt his heart.
 
 Buro Baba says that Parul smells like a human being. Parul tries to convince him by saying that she has grown up in a kingdom full of humans. But Buro Baba is not convinced. He asks her to pass three tests.
 
 Mallicka tells her father that she wants to catch Parul alive. She also informs that Nasabati has helped Parul and Raghav to enter the giant’s kingdom. Jotabhison works as a servant at Khokkos Puri. King Hirimballa becomes furious and declares that he will punish Nasabati’s family.
 
 Buro Baba asks her to chew small iron balls. Parul is worried as no human can chew it. But she realises that Buro Baba has poor eyesight. She replaces those iron balls with dried peanuts. Buro Baba becomes happy as she passes the first test.
 
 Mallicka goes to the garden where the Champa flower (brother of Parul) has blossomed. She warns Champa that Parul will not be able to rescue him.
 
 For the second test, Buro Baba gives her a hard rock and asks her to grind it with hands. She replaces it with a ripe papaya and smashes it.
 
 Mallicka roams around the kingdom. She goes to see her pet owl but it doesn’t respond, which makes her upset.
 
 Buro Baba asks her to throw a stone so that it touches the nearby tree.
 
