BHOPAL: A second-year student of the government-run Motilal Science College in Bhopal was rusticated — allegedly without being given a chance to defend herself — for calling her teachers ‘unpatriotic’ in a   post. Scores of her collegemates have united in protest and demand mass expulsion. 

 The expelled student,   Khan owes allegiance to Bhagat Kranti Dal ( ), a student’s organization that defeated   in the student polls held in October 2017. She was rusticated for a year on March 21. College principal Rakesh Agnihotri justified her expulsion by saying that she has not apologized. “Instead of apologizing, she gave an application thorough her lawyer to say that she had deleted the post within two hours. If she deleted it, then it means she too considered it wrong. So, why didn’t she inform us when it was going viral and why didn’t she apologize?” Agnihotri told TOI on Friday.
 
 Khan demands to know why the authorities didn’t hear her out. “I was not aware of what was happening in recent days as I was busy preparing for a programme. I came to know that ABVP activists were protesting in college, demanding action against me. And on March 22, all of a sudden, I received a letter from the college at my house that I had been rusticated for a year. They didn’t even ask any clarification from me. It was one-sided action,” she said.
 
 The controversy began when BKD and ABVP vied for permission to observe the death anniversary of   in the college auditorium. “We suggested that they do it jointly or at some other place. BKD students started a hunger strike. We informed the local administration and the strike was called off after their intervention. During the same time, Asma shared a post on Facebook. I cannot recall verbatim what it said, but she called all the teachers unpatriotic. It became viral. Our alumni are everywhere, even abroad, and we started receiving strong objections from alumni and teachers,” said the principal. 
 
 Khan said BKD started protesting when the college denied them permission. “During that time, a post was made from my Facebook account on March 19. Within minutes, I was informed by some of my friends that a Facebook post had been made and I removed it. What was shared was not my Facebook post but a screenshot of it,” she told TOI.
 
 The controversial post of March 19 said: “When they should have been studying, students have been forced to launch an indefinite hunger strike to wipe out seditious ideology from college. It’s a strange irony that there is an educational institution in India where students are patriotic and teachers unpatriotic”. Two days later, the college decided to expel her for a year.
 
 She went to meet the principal on March 22 with her father. “I was told that the action has been taken by teachers’ council. The principal said if she had tendered an apology then something could have been considered, but how can I tender an apology or give a clarification when I was not informed? Nowhere is action against someone without giving them a chance to present their views” she ,said.
 
 The principal said that on March 21, a teachers’ council meeting was held and action was taken against her. “She had two days to apologize. Even after action was taken, she could have apologized. We will place it before the teachers’ council again. How a can teacher tolerate being called ‘unpatriotic’? We didn’t deny permission to observe the death anniversary of Bhagat Singh. We only said that they couldn’t do it in the college auditorium because two different groups were demanding the same site,” Agnihotri said.
 
 BKD has rallied behind Khan. “We will submit a memorandum to the Governor of Madhya Pradesh and to the college management that we were not given a chance to reply,” BKD president Anup Dangi told TOI. “We are also starting a signature campaign wherein students will demand mass transfer certificate from the college. After meeting with the Governor, we will decide our next course of action,” he said.
 
