LUCKNOW: With the loss in the   and Phulpur byelections weighing heavily on the party, chief minister Yogi Adityanath looked clearly relieved, if not jubilant, when he addressed the media at 11pm on Friday after managing to snatch the ninth   seat from under BSP's nose. 

 Starting his speech with "Mitron", a term synonymous with Prime Minister  , the CM not only thanked the party workers and  's allies for supporting the party, but also took potshots at the  , despite whose support BSP failed to get its lone candidate elected to the Upper House.
 
 "People have seen SP's opportunistic face. They have seen how SP can take from others but cannot give back. This is nothing new since SP has been doing this for years," he said, referring to the support given by BSP to SP in the byelections because of which it managed to wrest both seats from BJP.
 
 In what was then "advice" for the BSP, he said that for an intelligent person, it was only necessary that before falling into the ditch, they should learn a lesson from the jolt they had received.
 
 He then thanked MLAs from BJP, Apna Dal and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party who supported BJP's nine candidates. The CM also made a mention of independent MLAs, "or those who supported BJP candidates because they listened to their inner voice".
 
 "I would also like to thank Piyush   (Union railway minister), who was sent especially to Lucknow to provide guidance to us. To ensure that there is no contradiction in the voting pattern of our MLAs, he guided us and the result is that all our votes were valid. Under the guidance of the PM and the national president, BJP will continue to drive forward its victory campaign," he said.
 
 Goyal added that a BJP majority in the Rajya Sabha was imperative to allow the party to make laws and ensure a Congress-free India. 
 
  He said: "To strengthen the hand of the PM, BJP and its allies should have a majority in the Rajya Sabha. The dream of a Congress-free India is almost coming true and in UP, its very existence is in danger. The next challenge is to defeat   in Karnataka and ensure a BJP government there as well." 
 
 
