MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday “quashed and set aside” a special CBI court   restraining the   from publishing news about the trial in the Sohrabuddin Sheikh alleged fake encounter  .

 Justice Revati Mohite-Dere referred to the media as the “most powerful watchdog of society,” while ruling in favour of a group of nine journalists from print, television and digital media, who submitted a petition against the November 29, 2017 order. 
 
 “The rights of the press are intrinsic to the constitutional right to freedom of expression. In reporting from an open trial, the press not only makes use of its own right, but serves the larger purpose of making such information available to the general public. The press is the most powerful watchdog of society,” the high court said. It held that the special CBI court did not have the powers to   the media from publishing the proceedings.
 
 Representing the petitioners, advocates Aabad Ponda, Abhinav Chandrachud, Varsha Bhogle and Shailendra Singh had said on Tuesday that the subordinate courts did not have the power to pass such an order. 
 
 The Brihanmumbai Union of Journalists also moved an appeal and was represented by advocate Mihir Desai.
 
 On November 29, special CBI judge SJ Sharma had allowed the plea, given the “sensitivity” of the case and the “likelihood” of “untoward” incidents and their possible effect on the trial. Media reports could create security problems for the accused, witnesses, the defence and the prosecutor, according to Sharma.
 
 However, the HC on Wednesday held that the Criminal Procedure Code makes it clear that an open trial is a rule, and an exception can be made only on rare occasions. “The words ‘open courts’ are significant since they affirm that the public is entitled to know whether the justice delivery system is adequate or not,” the court observed.
 
 The HC said sensationalism cannot be a cause to prevent the media from publishing. It held that mere allegation of a surcharged atmosphere cannot suffice and that nothing had been brought on record to substantiate the defendants’ contention that they were in fear of their life.
 
 The court also said as far as the witnesses were concerned, they must be protected at all cost and it is always open to the prosecution, if necessary, to request the court to conceal the identity of a witness.
 
 The case involves the 2005 killings of gangster Sohrabuddin, his wife Kausar Bi and his associate Tulsiram Prajapati in an alleged ‘fake’ encounter. Charges were recently framed against 22 accused. Over the last four years, 15 others, including BJP chief Amit Shah and former senior Gujarat police officer D G Vanzara, have been discharged in the case. The plea to restrain the media from covering the case was made by accused Rehman Abdul citing security reasons and this was supported by 12 other accused. During the trial, about 40 witnesses deposed; 28 among them have turned hostile.
 
 
