Ghaziabad: “They don’t consider this a violation, but a right,” this is how a traffic constable posted outside the Ghaziabad Development Authority’s office summed up the menace of wrong-side driving in the area.

 His assessment was spot on. “What’s wrong in it?” a biker asked when told he was riding on the wrong carriageway.
 
 The “habit” of taking the short cut to avoid riding all the way to a U-turn 200 metres away is at the root of a traffic mess outside the GDA office. The area remains chock-a-block through the day, the problem compounded by the fact that the Old Bus Stand is located within metres and an unauthorised auto-rickshaw stand has come up under a flyover. A commercial area — Navyug Market — is also located nearby.
 
 A TOI team that visited the area on Tuesday found that the unauthorised parking by auto drivers leaves little space for other vehicles to pass. But that is hardly a deterrent for bikers to ride 50 metres on the wrong carriageway than going all the way to a U-turn 200 metres away.
 
 Only one constable and a home guard could be spotted manning the rush-hour traffic on the 200-metre stretch outside the GDA office. Two others could be seen on the other flank as well.
 
 Traffic constable Manoj Kumar said more than the lack of personnel to keep an eye on violations, the need of the hour was to counsel drivers and riders against taking the wrong flank. Most vehicle owners driving on the   are headed towards Patel Nagar.
 
 “They don’t consider this a violation of any rule, but as their right,” constable Kumar said.
 
 The cop was hardly incorrect. Even those in the know of law were found to be on its wrong side. When this team asked Ankur Mittal, who identified himself as an advocate at Ghaziabad district court, why he was riding the wrong way, he replied casually: “What’s wrong in it? Why should I travel 200 metres extra to cover the distance which is hardly 50 metres from the GDA office?”
 
 When this question was put to other commuters, most of them were all smiles as if some joke had been cracked. Stopped by the constable, one of them even started an argument and then continued on his path.
 
 Kumar pleaded helplessness. He said he could only stop the bikers or the vehicles, but did not have the authority to issue challans. The correct way to drive from outside the GDA office is to move towards the Hapur Road and take a U-turn in front of Navyug market.
 
 SSP Vaibhav Krishna said his force was “quite serious” about curbing this menace. On Friday, he deployed 100 constables, 36 head constables and 15 sub-inspectors in the traffic wing for the next three months.
 
 The SSP said the additional force will manage traffic for longer hours in the city, especially at night. “We are hoping to resolve several traffic issues with this new deployment,” he said.
 
 
