HYDERABAD: Undergarments placed neatly on a table and entry of the assailant into the house without any resistance were the only leads police had in housewife  . Piecing together available clues, investigators had a hunch that the offender was someone known to the victim. After a series of interviews with her family members, police started probing into the possibility of an extramarital affair and cracked the case with the arrest of her paramour,  

 Soumya was allegedly murdered by Prakash at her flat in Erragadda on April 2 night. As Prakash left his two phones at his friend’s house at Hydernagar before arriving at Soumya’s flat, police could not identify him as a suspect during the initial investigation.
 
  
 
 He also ensured there were no phone calls from him to the victim. Prakash, who had an intimate relationship with the victim for over four years, initially planned to meet her husband Nagabhushanam on March 31. Nagabhushanam, an L&T Metro engineer, told police that while returning home from office, he saw Prakash near his house on March 31. Prakash wanted to have drinks at Nagabhushanam’s house, but the latter told him that his father-in-law was at home and suggested for a get-together on April 1.
 
 Accordingly, on April 1, Nagabhushanam and Prakash had liquor at the former’s house. During the  , Prakash found out that Nagabhushanam had night shift the next day.
 
 On April 2 night, Prakash borrowed his friend’s bike and went to Soumya’s flat after Nagabhushanam left for work. After committing the murder, Prakash stole two gold chains and two gold rings and left the place. He slept at his friend’s room at Hydernagar that night and went to Anantapur on April 3.
 
 During the initial probe, Nagabhushanam did not mention about Prakash. Neither Nagabhushanam nor Soumya’s parents mentioned to the cops about the stolen gold ornaments, making it difficult to figure out the motive for the crime.
 
 “Initially, Nagabhushanam and Soumya’s parents said she had blackbead chain and her son a gold chain. Clues Team found both the items in an almirah. Her family members did not mention about any other missing jewellery,” an officer, who was part of the investigation, told TOI.
 
 Cops then focussed on the extramarital affair angle as they found the victim’s undergarments neatly placed on a table. After multiple interviews, family members of Soumya said Prakash was close to the couple and then Nagabhushanam confessed about the previous day’s booze session. Police then checked Prakash’s cell phone details and found out his movement in the city.
 
 Police then questioned Prakash’s friends, including Subhash. They revealed that he borrowed a bike and mortgaged gold at Muthoot Mini in Hydernagar. The staff transferred Rs 80,000 for the mortgaged gold into Subhash’s account and he, in turn, transferred it to Prakash’s account.
 
 A police team picked up Prakash from Anantapur and recovered the dumbbell rod he used to  . His bloodstained trouser was also seized from his friend’s room. Prakash would be taken into custody for recovery of the mortgaged property and scene recreation. The victim’s vaginal swabs were collected and blood samples of Prakash would also be collected for  .
 
