GHAZIABAD: The cost of the third phase of the metro project along two proposed extensions — Noida Sector 62 to Sahibabad and Vaishali to Mohan Nagar — has escalated from Rs 3,711 crore to Rs 3,991 crore. 

 The new estimate was included in the revised detailed project report (DPR) after the   (DMRC) accounted for the cost of nine hectares of land needed for the project. The DPR was submitted by DMRC to   on Saturday.
 
 
  
 
 In February, the DMRC had submitted the DPR for the third phase of the project but the GDA returned it as the report did not contain a number of points, including financial feasibility report, and asked for a revised DPR.
 
 “The cost of land required for the project along two corridors was not accounted for in the original DPR, which had estimated the total cost of the project at Rs 3,711 crore,” said V N Singh, chief engineer. “Now, in the revised DPR, the cost of about nine hectares of land, which would be needed for the project, has been accounted for. After collating the previous and new cost, there has been an increase of Rs 280 crore and this has resulted in cost escalation of the project by nearly 7.5%. The total amount is now Rs 3,991 crore against the previous Rs 3,711 crore,” added Singh.
 
 Land required for the Vaishali to Mohan Nagar corridor for four stations — including Prahlad Garhi, Sector 14 Vasundhara, Sahibabad and Mohan Nagar — and for the elevated section is 7.91 hectares. The cost of this land according to the circle rate has been estimated to be Rs 448.15 crore in the revised DPR. In the original DPR, it was only Rs 115 crore.
 
 Similarly, land requirement for   to Sahibabad corridor for four metro stations, which includes Vaibhav Khand, DPS Indirapuram, Shakti Khand and Sector 5 Vasundhara, and for the elevated section is 1.86 hectares. The cost of the land, according to the circle rate, is estimated at Rs 178 crore in the original DPR but in the revised DPR, it came down to Rs 125 crore. After computing the land cost on the two corridors, there has been a hike of Rs 280 crore in the new DPR.
 
 The revised DPR also suggested how GDA would recover a portion of the total cost of the project. “It has been proposed in the revised DPR that we increase the floor area ratio (FAR) on the Electronic City to Sahibabad corridor by 500 metres on both sides of allignment,” said Singh. “According to this estimate, it would fetch GDA Rs 239.32 crore,” he added. 
 
 Similarly, on the Vaishali to Mohan Nagar corridor, the hiked FAR would fetch GDA Rs 47.86 crore.
 
 The DMRC heeded GDA’s request and put the burden of the state and central government to fund the project in the ratio 80:20. “This is just a suggestion and the final call on the funding pattern will be taken by the state government after we submit the revised DPR,” said Singh.
 
 
