Hyderabad: It turned out to be a moment of utter embarrassment for the Telangana government, when a senior government official from the Union ministry of micro, small & medium admonished them openly on the dias for their lackadaisical attitude towards matters pertaining to SC/ST in the state during the inaugural session of the “National SC-ST Hub Conclave 2018” in Hyderabad.

 National SC-ST Hub (NSSH) was launched by the Prime Minister in October 2016 to create a supportive ecosystem for SC/ST entrepreneurs by assisting them in capacity building and thereby enabling them to effectively participate in public procurement process.
 
 After exchanging pleasantries and felicitating Jagadish Reddy, Telangana minister for SC development, Azmeera Chandulal Telangana minister for ST development and other state officials with shawls and plaques, PGS Rao, director-SME, Union ministry of  , during his speech mentioned that it has been over two months since the Union government has reached out to the state government asking it to furnish the name and details of a nodal agency that can conduct activities for the development of SC/ST at the district level but the state government has not responded yet.
 
 “We have written to all the state governments and Union territories to send the name of a nodal agency with full details, following which we will give money to the state governments to expand their programmes for SC/ST at the district level. It has been two months….I wrote letters to the all the state principal secretaries … unfortunately Telangana government has not responded and even the Andhra Pradesh government is yet to respond,” PGS Rao said. Rao pointed out that Karnataka and Kerala have already responded and therefore the Union government will be releasing funds to them.
 
 Much to the embarrassment of the Telangana leaders present on the dias, the audience, after hearing that even Karnataka and Kerala have responded, started boo-booing them and shouted ‘Shame… Shame’. 
 
 While exhorting the Telangana officials to respond to his letter, Rao expressed his displeasure that no senior official such as principal secretary or industries commissioner was present at the event that was meant to encourage SC/ST entrepreneurs. Meanwhile, defending the government, Jagadish Reddy said that Telangana has been working relentlessly towards the benefit of the SC/ST communities and is encouraging entrepreneurship too. He said the need of the hour was to have a positive outlook and focus on success stories rather than focusing on failures.
 
 
