GURUGRAM: Burglars struck again in the city on Wednesday, this time targeting two houses of   in   area and one flat in Sector 50. The miscreants allegedly decamped with diamond and gold jewellery, cash and other valuables. Three FIRs have been lodged, but police are clueless.

 In DLF 2, burglars broke into a house in Block M around noon when Rajesh Khurana and his wife Anjali had gone to work. Anjali discovered the theft after returning from office in the evening. While Rajesh is a senior HR executive with a company in Delhi, his wife works in the automobile sector.
 
 In his complaint, Rajesh said they left home around 8.30 am on Wednesday, as usual. “It was around 5 pm when my wife returned home that she found the locks of the main door broken and the house was burgled. I reached home after some time. Gold and diamond jewellery, expensive wrist watches and Rs 1,74, 000 cash were stolen,” he said.
 
 “We are shocked that our house was burgled during the day in an upscale area like DLF 2 and not a single security guard spotted it,” said Khurana.
 
 Almost in a similar fashion, burglars broke into another house in DLF 3’s Block V, home to Mohit Arora, a chartered accountant, and his wife Ambika. Both were at work when the crime took place.
 
 “We went to work as usual. My wife returned home around 5.30 pm to discover the locks of the main door broken and house ransacked. Jewellery worth Rs 7 lakh and Rs 10,000 were stolen,” he said. “It seemed the burglars were aware of our daily routine,” he added.
 
 “We got married a year ago and choose the area as safe, but all our wedding jewellery were stolen on Wednesday,” Mohit said.
 
 In both the  , FIRs have been registered under sections 454 (lurking house trespass) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of IPC at DLF 2 police station. “We are trying to trace the accused with the help of CCTV footage of nearby area. The accused will be arrested soon,” said SHO Sudip Kumar.
 
 A flat in Uppal Southend in Sector 50 was also targeted by miscreants on Wednesday. Police said burglars decamped with expensive wrist watches and jewellery from the apartment when no one was there.
 
 On the complaint of flat owner Aadarsh Shankar, an FIR has been registered under sections 454 (lurking house trespass) and 380 (theft in dwelling house) of IPC at Sector 50 police station. But no arrestes have been made yet.
 
 
