PATNA: The Bikram trauma centre in Patna district, the only one in Bihar and set up in 2002, may start functioning in the next six months, said surgery department head at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, Dr V Seenu, who visited the place with a team of Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) officials on Sunday. The trauma centre would be run under IGIMS.

 The Bikram centre was supposed to have a full range of specialists (surgical and non-surgical) and high-tech equipment with round-the-clock service.
 
 “At least Rs35 crore is required to start its functioning as a level-1 trauma centre with slight modification in its existing infrastructure,” Dr Seenu said. Level-1 trauma centre provides specialist medical and nursing care, including orthopaedic and general surgery, emergency medicine, neurosurgery, anaesthesiology and radiology, along with other diagnostic equipment.
 
 Dr Seenu said Rs1 crore is the estimated cost of a bed, including necessary equipment and infrastructure, in a level-1 trauma centre. “With slight modifications, we may be able to start the trauma centre with around 50 beds. Twenty-five beds out of the 50 will be used for intensive care unit (ICU). As the trauma centre already has an existing infrastructure, it will require Rs10 to 15 crore less as compared to constructing a new centre,” he said. 
 
 Apart from modifying the centre, a separate structure would be required for residential purposes of doctors, nurses, paramedics and other health staff. “We have identified a space belonging to state water resources department in front of the centre for the purpose,” Dr Seenu said.
 
 The plan for redevelopment of the centre also includes setting up a triage area where patients are sorted on the basis of seriousness of their injury. The centre would also require a blood bank, a radiology lab along with other diagnostic labs. 
 
 IGIMS director Dr N R Biswas said two proposals would be submitted to the state health department — one for its development within six months with minimal intervention and another for its complete overhaul on a long-term basis. 
 
 The state health department also plans to set up two new trauma centres — at the IGIMS and Lok Nayak Jayaprakash Narayan Hospital, both in Patna.
 
 
