CHANDIGARH: The Panjab University Committee Against Sexual Harassment (PUCASH) has found a senior lecturer of its dental college guilty of sexually   more than a dozen students. The first complaint against the faculty member was filed on March 6 after which many more girls came forward to record their statements. The report was placed before the university's syndicate members on Saturday who will now decide the quantum of punishment. 

 According to the report, a copy of which is with TOI, the primary complainant had gone to the faculty member's room to show her practical work on March 5. According to her complaint, the faculty member started enquiring about her family's medical history because she was coughing. He said that he would examine her and asked her to shut the door of the room. He then touched her inappropriately.
 
 The upset student told her parents about the incident. Her father called up the lecturer, who later apologised and the complainant submitted the audio of his apology to PUCASH along with her complaint.
 
 
 
 
 
 Other students then gave their statements in writing alleging sexual harassment by the lecturer. They came forward after the primary complainant submitted that they feared their grades may be affected.
 
 
 In his statement before PUCASH on March 21, the lecturer said that he had examined the complainant as he found her wheezing and was concerned that it might lead to an asthma attack. However, when PUCASH members asked him about his expertise in conducting such an examination, he was unable to give a satisfactory answer. According to the PUCASH report, he chose to remain silent to most queries.
 
 
 “In response to all the complaints and queries put forward to me by the committee, I want to offer my unconditional apology to my dear students and will take care that I will not repeat them in the future. I do not wish to cross-examine any of the students related to any of the complaints,” read his statement to the committee.
 
 
 He later submitted three documents on May 14 to claim that the severity of his guilt was not as much as he was being charged. The committee has recommended a major penalty under the service rules of the University.
 
 
 
