MUMBAI: Soon after England beat Australia in their T20 tri-series encounter at the Brabourne Stadium on Friday, India’s women take to the field for a nets session that goes on to last for over three hours. Done with their batting, bowling and fielding drills, players start strolling back to the dressing room when a few youngsters request   for photographs. She obliges each one of them gladly before making an exit.

 
 
 
 Interest in India’s women’s cricket has risen sharply in the past few months, with the Mithali Raj-led side reaching the final of the World Cup in England last July, and emerging triumphant in the ODI and T20 series in South Africa last month. They, however, struggled against Australia in the ODI series recently, but as they say: It’s part of the game.
 
 Mandhana has been one of the shining lights of the team and has made significant contributions to totals, both in victory and defeat. So, have they got accustomed to the attention that’s being showered upon them by administrators and fans these days? “Yes, we have. Earlier, too, people knew us. But we have become more popular after our show in the World Cup. It helps that our games are broadcast live. People know our names and have been tracking our performances,” Mandhana tells TOI.
 
 
 
 Although Mandhana has been India’s leading performer with the bat this year, there have been numerous occasions when she could have gone on to notch up bigger scores. “I am disappointed about getting out in the 50s especially in the one-dayers. I have gone past the half-century mark in about 15-20 overs, and I clearly had a chance to go for big scores. But, that did not happen as I gave my wicket away. That’s something I need to improve,” she says. “This would not happen to me earlier in my career, but it’s happening since the Australia ODIs. So I need to figure out and make amends. I guess it has to do with lapse in concentration. I need to understand when to cut down on shot-making and when to accelerate. I can’t maintain the same flow throughout the innings. There are times when I need to focus on taking singles rather than looking for only boundaries,” she explains.
 
 India beat Australia in the semifinal of the World Cup, so it was pretty expected that the latter would come hard at their opponents when they got their chance. And they did come out all guns blazing, clean-sweeping the ODI series in Baroda 3-0 recently, and also beating the hosts in the tri-series opener.
 
 “We were prepared for the sort of performances that we have seen from the Aussies. They have always been an aggressive side, and we knew they would be hurting and would go all out to prove their point. We were quite prepared for their approach, just that we could not implement our own plans properly. We lacked in all three departments of the game at a time when we needed all the players to stand up and deliver,” rued the 21-year-old.
 
 The opener is keen on making the most of the remaining games in the tri-series as well as the three ODIs that follow against England. “The women’s game has become very aggressive now, and we realise that we need to put up anything above 175 in T20s in order to help our bowlers fight it out. We want to play the brand of cricket that Australia and England play,” she reckoned.
 
 India has a decent mix of youth and experience in the current squad, but that day is not far when some of the ageing stalwarts like   and   will hang their boots. A few other seniors too will be making way for new blood. Mandhana’s role will be crucial in this context, since she will be a key link between the seniors and the youngsters.
 
 “Losing someone like Mithali di and Jhulan di is something we have not contemplated at all. Both consistently guided the youngsters coming into the team. So we will have to ensure that whenever new players come in, we too try and make sure they are in safe hands and are guided well. About the transition per say, I am not sure whether it will be smooth. It’s difficult to predict what will happen in the future,” she said.
 
