AHMEDABAD:A   delegation on Thursday met the family of   — the Dalit man beaten to death by five persons in the Shapar area of Rajkot on Sunday — at his native village Parnala in Limbdi taluka of Surendranagar district.

 The bereaved family said that not a single minister or representative of the Vijay Rupani government met.
 
 “Today, a Congress delegation met us during a condolence meeting. They spoke to Mukesh’s wife and children and promised support in the fight to justice,” said Mansukh Vaniya, Mukesh’s uncle.
 
 “No one from the state government, neither a minister nor a representative, has spoken to us about the incident as of now. One man who said he was a social justice department employee came to offer the compensation money,” said Mansukh, who is a daily wage labourer at Parnala.
 
 Raju Parmar, former chairperson of the  , said that a Congress delegation comprising former social justice minister Kumari Selja, leader of the opposition   and Danilimda MLA Shailesh Parmar met the victim’s family on Thursday.
 
 “Kumari Selja offered her condolences and asked the victim’s wife about the incident. They were sent by Congress leader Sonia Gandhi and party president Rahul Gandhi,” said Parmar.
 
 The Congress delegation later met   governor O P Kohli to discuss the increasing number of atrocities against Dalits.
 
 In a memorandum submitted to the governor, Congress leaders said that the state BJP government has not fulfilled any of the promises made to the Una Dalit victims, like allotting them land, issuing BPL cards, a special court for justice etc. The Congress also raised the issue of the Thangadh killings, where three youths were allegedly killed in police firing in September 2012. The inquiry report into the Thangadh case has not been made public.
 
 Congress leaders demanded allocation of land and provisions for crematoria for Dalit families and proper investigation in atrocity cases. The Congress also demand proper and timely functioning of the state-level SC/ST committee.
 
 
