For the Makkis, collecting mineral specimens began as a hobby, but somewhere down the line passion and profession intertwined.

 “Some people collect stamps, some collect coins, we collect mineral specimens. We also sell them,” says Sami Makki.
 
 Though this hobby is not well-known in India, Sami says it is popular abroad. “Some people collect mineral specimens by country or by species. There are many levels of collection,” he says.
 
 The Makkis specialise in mining mineral specimens, mainly zeolites, which are native to Maharashtra. They also carry out excavations across India. They keep some minerals for their personal collection. The rest they sell to domestic collectors or wholesale buyers and also export to countries such as Germany, France, China, Japan and the United States.
 
 Most of the mineral specimens in their possession are in their natural state and date back to millions of years. “There’s nothing that is 50 or 100 years old. The minerals go back to the time of evolution of the earth or when certain geological events occurred. For example, the minerals found in Maharashtra are the result of a volcanic eruption which occurred 60 to 70 million years ago in the Deccan peninsula. These minerals sometimes tumble out of quarries or construction pits,” he says.
 
 Quarries have reduced in number in Pune, but the Makkis still manage to fin eral treasures bu deep inside the eart “When developer dig building foundations up to 30 ft to 40 ft, it becomes like a temporary quarry When they fin something, we have go there quickly, ta them and make th sary arrangements,” says Muhammad F. Makki, Sami’s father, who has been in the profession since 1960.
 
 Just finding a mineral in the earth or cavity is not enough. You have to remove it without breaking it. That is where the skill lies, he adds.
 
 The Makkis have a team of 10 expert diggers. “All necessary permissions have to be obtained from the government. Apart from a mineral trading licence, one has to obtain a temporary permit from the collector or tehsildar to excavate minerals. Moreover, royalty in terms of volume of minerals extracted has to be paid to the government,” he says.
 
 But in spite of all the formalities involved and the inherent risk of rappelling down y deep inside the th, Muhammad els his work is worth the pain.
 
 “If we don’t go and take all the necessary steps to excavate and prerve the minerals, ey will be deyed. Unless they covered and displayed, no one will know about them,” he says.
 
 With that aim in mind, he travels to colleges and universities and holds exhibitions to spread awareness about minerals and natural wealth. He also donates mineral specimens to universities in India and abroad. Pune University, Mumbai University, Delhi University and   have been some of his beneficiaries. He has also donated specimens to the New York Museum, the Smithsonian Institute, Harvard University and the  . “In India, geology is bookish. Most students spend their entire academic year without getting to see basic samples. My father provides science kits to institutions which don’t have them so that students can increase their knowledge,” says Sami.
 
 Their work does not end with just extracting mineral specimens and preserving them. “We submit data to foreign mineral journals such as Rock H.Currier, Rocks and Minerals, Mineralogical Record, Mineralien-Welt etc. So, people can get to know why these occur and how they are extracted, packed and preserved,” says Muhammad.
 
 His work requires him to travel abroad frequently. “We tour every two months,” he says. During his travels, he makes sure to collect mineral specimens and rocks to add to his collection. “I have a huge collection of specimens at my farmhouse on Sus Road, where I am planning to open a museum by 2020,” he says.
 
 Among his collections from abroad is a piece of the Russian Chelyabinsk meteor, a dinosaur tooth from Morocco, a trilobite fossil, which he claims to be 400 million years old, a banded agate from Brazil, a calcite in a clam shell from Florida, a mother of pearl in clam shell from Mexico and an amethyst from Brazil.
 
 But the best in his kitty are from closer home. Their discovery of a green apophyllite from Rahuri, about 150 km from Pune, in 2000 created a sensation among mineral collectors globally and the postal department issued a special cover to honour the achievement. “It was an important find because this crystal was known to occur only in a pointed form. We found it in a radial form which came to be known as disco ball apophyllite. You get blue apophyllite only in Wagholi. The Deccan Trap is a treasure trove of minerals,” he says.
 
