NEW DELHI: In a relief to   companies in Goa, the   on Wednesday allowed their plea to export iron ore lying at the port, which was excavated prior to March 16 when mining operations were stopped in the state on the orders of the court.

 A bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta allowed the companies, including Vedanta, to transport the iron ore out of the state after they contended that huge amount of ores was lying at the port which was excavated in compliance with the the apex court’s earlier order.
 
 The bench directed the state government to ensure and confirm that only that iron ore is loaded which is royalty paid and which is lying in the jetties on or before March 15.
 
 Senior advocate Shyam Divan and  , appearing for the companies, contended that those ores were excavated prior to March 15 and the firms had all the statutory approvals to export them. They contended that companies were paying around Rs 12.5 lakh per day for keeping the ores at the port and assured the court to pay compensation if it was found that ores were excavated in violation of the apex court’s order.
 
 The high court of Bombay at Goa, in an interim order on March 28, stopped the transportation of mineral ore on a petition filed by  .
 
 In a major blow to mining companies in Goa, the Supreme Court in February quashed 88 leases granted to them by the state government in 2015 saying the Centre and state acted in undue haste by allowing renewal of leases in violation of law for the benefits of private firms. The court then directed the companies to wind down their operations by March 15. It asked the Centre and state government to take steps to grant fresh mining leases in accordance with the law and also recover amounts from companies for indulging in illegal mining.
 
 The court had noted that the state government started the process of renewal of leases just a day after the Centre had taken decision to amend the law to take the route of competitive bidding or auction process for granting lease to mining companies. 
 
 The apex court’s order brought the mining operations of iron and manganese ore to a complete standstill in the state. 
 
 
