VADODARA: Kheda police arrested Dinesh Yadav, a history-sheeter from Uttar Pradesh, for allegedly gunning down a resident of Makarpura area on the   on Tuesday. Yadav was caught in   town and police also seized a country-made gun from him believed to have been used in the murder.

 
 Deceased Sanjay Chang, who works as a manager in a tiles manufacturing company in Ahmedabad, was on his way to work from city in his newly bought car when two to three persons fired at him. Another resident of the city, identified as Ashish, who was driving behind Chang’s car turned out to be the sole witness of the shootout. After the killers fled from the spot, Ashish called up 108 GVK EMRI ambulance, but Chang had succumbed to his injuries by then.
 
 Chang had suffered bullet injuries on his stomach and other injuries caused due to knife were also seen on his wrist and knee. Cops also said that when Ashish was driving behind Chang, he saw the door of the car opening and closing a couple of times. 
 
 When Ashish tried to overtake Chang, he saw that he was involved in a scuffle with two to three other persons in the car. After going a distance, when Ashish drove back, he saw that the killers had fled and Chang was lying in a pool of blood.
 
 An hour later, two police constables of Kheda police nabbed Yadav from a farm on the basis of information. Police sources said that the place from where Yadav was first seen with revolver by police informers, is at a short distance from the spot where shootout took place. When the two cops tried to nab Yadav, he got into a fight with them and even pulled the gun on them. However, he did not shoot from the weapon. But the two cops were injured in the melee.
 
 Yadav was booked for attempt to murder registered by the two constables.
 
 “We suspect that there is connection between the two incidents but Yadav has not admitted yet. We have sent the gun, cartridges and the fired cartridges to the forensic lab for ballistic analysis,” said  , superintendent of police, Kheda.
 
 Pawar added that once the police get technical evidences against Yadav, he will be arrested in the murder case.
 
 Killers may have been familiar with the victim
 
 Vadodara: Police are yet to know the reason behind Sanjay Chang’s murder. One suspicion is that the killers would be actually be a gang of vehicle thieves eyeing to steal his newly bought SUV. “It may not be a robbery case because Chang did not have lot of cash with him and his jewellery was not stolen,” said a senior police official. Cops suspect that the killers may be familiar to Chang which could be a reason that they were in the car with him. When the police checked   camera footages of express highway toll plaza near Dumad crossroads, they could see two people sitting in Chang’s car.
 
