COIMBATORE: The city corporation commissioner is likely to terminate a contract with a Chennai-based company on setting up a 200-tonne capacity plant for recycling construction and debris waste. 

 According to corporation officials, the contractor – NEWAY Engineers MSW Private Limited - was given the work order in January, 2017. The contractor had promised to set up the plant within a month’s time. In April, the contractor informed the Coimbatore municipal corporation that the machinery had to be purchased from China and it was getting delayed. 
 
 “Even now, the contractor said that the machinery is stuck in Chennai. So, we have decided to terminate the contract and issue an order to the contractor,” said city corporation commissioner  .
 
 The plant was expected to be set up in a 15-acre vacant land near   sewage treatment plant at an estimate of Rs 9 crore. 
 
 The contractor had agreed to bear the entire capital expense for the construction and maintenance of the plant. The corporation had promised to pay the contractor Rs 567 for recycling per tonne and the remaining expenditure will be borne by the contractor. 
 
 The city generates 100 tonnes of construction and debris waste every day which are currently either dumped at   dump yard or illegally along the banks of the lakes and canals. 
 
 “One of the major benefits of this will be that our city lakes will become dump free and all the foundries and other companies dumping waste near the lakes will stop. We had designated 17 locations across the city from where the contractor will collect waste and take it to the plant for recycling,” said an engineer.
 
 The company was supposed to segregate the waste as concrete, soil, steel, mortar, brick, wood and plastic and hand over to the corporation workers who will collect and transport them to the Ukkadam construction and debris waste recycling plant. 
 
 At the plant, the debris would be crushed and converted into bricks, pavement blocks and other usable construction material. The company can sell it and make profit out of it.
 
 “But now, the entire project is stuck in limbo. The contractor will get the termination order soon, following which higher authorities will take necessary steps. Whether a fresh tender will be called or the same contractor will be asked to speed up the project will be decided,” said an engineer.
 
 
