CHENNAI: An 18-year-old   walking home was hacked to death on   in   in the wee hours of Saturday, with security camera footage showing the profusely bleeding teenager stumbling along for around 50 metres, police said.

 Police who identified the slain youth as R Ranjith, a resident of   in Nungambakkam, said he had called his home around 7.30pm on Friday and told his family members that his mother had boarded a train at Chennai Beach and would be home soon and that he himself would be late.
 
  His family members came to know of his death after a passerby  , of Mangal Nagar in  , alerted police around 12.45am and they were informed.
 
 A team of the Nungambakkam police rushed to the place and sent the man’s body to the   and Hospital for autopsy. 
 
 Preliminary inquiries revealed that Ranjith, who had been identified with the help of cards found on his person, was pursuing a deploma in mechanical engineering at the Government ITI on the Guindy Industrial Estate campus.
 
 Special police teams have fanned out across the city to trace the suspects. They have collected the security camera footage from a few residences and commercial establishments close to the murder spot, but are yet to establish the motive for the murder. 
 
 An investigating officer said camera footage showed the teenager running for about 50 metres on Tank Bund Road, clutching his bleeding neck, and that the fatal blow could have been delivered at a spot where there were no cameras. 
 
 “We found four men on two bikes following the injured Ranjith and we suspect that the riders killed him,” said the officer.
 
 Inquiries revealed that the assailants may have followed Ranjith when he was travelling by train and then continued to follow him on bikes soon after he got down at the Nungambakkam railway station. 
 
 He was found dead at a spot on Tank Bund Road in Nungambakkam, at least 1.5 km from the station. 
 
 Another officer said that Ranjith may have been killed by the gang over personal enmity or because of a love affair gone wrong. 
 
 Police personnel have now sought the help of the cybercrime wing to help retrieve Ranjith’s mobile phone call data.
 
  “We are making inquiries with some of his friends to check if he had informed them about any imminent threat to his life,” said an officer.
 
 On June 24, 2017, S Swathi, a 24-year-old computer engineer employed with Infosys, had been hacked to death at the Nungambakkam Railway Station early in the morning, sending shock waves across the country.
 
 
