CHANDIGARH: The   government, in a submission before the Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday, has stated that former chief minister (CM) Bhupinder Singh   had deliberately maintained silence over the proceedings of the   commission that had probed controversial land deals in Gurgaon.

 The land deals included those of Congress ex-president Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra, the government said, adding that Hooda chose to challenge the panel when it completed its report.
 
 Further submitting that Hooda had ample opportunities to challenge the constitution of the commission, the state also asserted that it belies logic that the former CM, who has held a constitutional post, was not aware about his right to raise an objection and challenge the panel.
 
 These submissions were made by the state government before the HC in response to the allegations leveled by Hooda that he was not given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the inquiry conducted by the Dhingra commission.
 
 “The first stage when Hooda could have challenged it was when the first notification was published on May 14, 2015. He could have also challenged the clarificatory notification issued on August 18, 2015. Hooda could have also challenged the proceedings when March 11, 2016 notice was served on him and when the March 25, 2016 order was passed by the commission. However, Hooda, for the reasons best known to him maintained silence in this regard till November 15, 2016, which comes for around one and half year,” Haryana told the HC in its written arguments.
 
 The high court was also informed that Hooda was given an opportunity of hearing as per section 8B of the commission of inquiry Act and he also responded to the same but chose not to participate and avail the given opportunity.
 
 He cannot make out a ground of violation of natural justice after having chosen not to avail the opportunity affordable as the same amounts to permitting a litigant to take advantage of his own wrong, argued the state.
 
 The matter would now come up for hearing on May 30.
 
 The matter had reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by former CM   challenging the constitutional validity of the constitution of Dhingra commission.
 
 Hooda also alleged that the opinion formed by the Manohar Lal Khattar government to constitute Dhingra panel was not honest, bona fide and not based on any objective material.
 
 On May 14, 2015, Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government in Haryana had appointed a one-man commission of retired judge of the Delhi high court Justice S N Dhingra to investigate licences issued to develop commercial colonies in Gurgaon during the Hooda-led Congress regime. It includes   village where a deal between Vadra’s company and DLF, had sparked off a major controversy in 2012. The commission had submitted its report on Aug 31, 2016.
 
 
