PUNE: A software engineer died early on Saturday, a few hours after three persons, including a tour and travel operator, brutally assaulted him outside his bungalow at Sahaney Sujan Park at Lullanagar on Friday night over a parking dispute.

 Neville Bomi Battiwala (39) suffered serious injuries in the assault around 8pm on Friday. He died undergoing treatment in a private hospital at Kondhwa around 3.15am on Saturday.
 
 Acting swiftly, the Kondhwa police arrested the tour operator, Shriganesh Jayantrao Raskar (32), and his drivers   (22) and Vikram Laxman Bhombe on the charges of murder besides other charges of the Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Police Act. They would be produced before a magisterial court on Sunday.
 
 Senior inspector of the Kondhwa police   said Battiwala and Raskar resided in the same locality and had an old dispute over parking vehicles.
 
 “Battiwala on Friday objected to the parking of a white car outside his bungalow and told its driver, Bhombe, about it. Bhombe asked Battiwala to talk to his employer, Raskar. Raskar, present at the spot, became furious when Battiwala sought explanation from him over the issue. Raskar retorted that he was using a public road to park the car because he was an official of the  . After Battiwala asked Raskar to show his identity card, he picked up a dispute with him,” Gaikwad said.
 
 The senior inspector said, “Raskar and his drivers attacked Battiwala with a pry bar and stone. They took to heels after he fell. The victim got up, rushed to his bungalow and made a phone call to the nearby Kondhwa police chowkey.”
 
 A beat marshal rushed to Battiwala’s place. He advised the victim to seek treatment and file a complaint.
 
 “Battiwala then walked up to a nearby hospital and got admitted. He gave details of the incident and identified himself as a software engineer to a policeman. He was shifted to the intensive care unit after his condition deteriorated. He later succumbed to injuries,” Gaikwad said.
 
 He said, “We arrested Raskar and the others on the basis of the information given by the victim and lodged an FIR. The suspects told the police that Battiwala caught hold of Bhombe’s collar when he was replacing a tyre and picked up a dispute over the issue of parking outside his bungalow. Raskar and Kadve intervened in the matter but the victim was in no mood to listen. The dispute triggered the murder.”
 
 The   has certified the cause of Battiwala’s death due to multiple injuries.
 
 The murder spot, having no CCTV camera, wore a deserted look on Friday. No one was present at Battiwala’s bungalow either.
 
 A relative of the victim said, “We are not sure of what Battiwala was doing at present. His funeral will be performed after his mother reaches Pune from Mumbai.”
 
 A security guard of a nearby building described the victim as a friendly and loving person. “We used to see him strolling in lane number three,” the guard said.
 
 A laundry shop employee told the police that the victim often hurled abuses at the suspects in English. An eyewitness saw the suspects attacking Battiwala.
 
 
