GUNTUR: At the very onset of summer, villages in   district are staring at an acute   as most local tanks have dried up. These villages are located as close as 40 km and up to 150 km from the capital region.

 Ironically, most villages struggling with drinking water shortage are located on the banks of   ( ) canals.
 
  According to initial assessment of the district administration, the situation has turned grave in about 23 villages of the   region. The rural water supply and sanitation department (RWS&S), which is managing the drinking water schemes in villages, has readied an action plan to provide water to the 23 villages through tankers. About 20 drinking water tankers would be deployed to manage the drinking water needs of the villages.
 
 Sources said the situation in another 300 villages in the region is also fast turning precarious as the local borewells are going dry. “There are about 315 villages which might face trouble in case the existing reserves in the drinking tanks go dry. We are readying plans to handle the situation. The situation will be mmitigated soon,” said a senior official of the water supply department.
 
  He said they have supplied drinking water through tankers to about 285 villages in 34 mandals in the last summer season and the situation could be much more serious than year before as there were hardly any rain in the last six months.
 
 Interestingly, some officials said the RWS&S department is always taking temporary measures to tackle the drinking water crisis in Palnadu region instead of focussing on permanent solutions. Sources said RWS&S department is spending close to Rs 10 crore exclusively on transport of water during the summer months every year which has become a routine contract for traders.
 
 About 30 major drinking water schemes were launched to cover about 520 villages. However, the works are going on at snail’s pace. The timely completion of these water schemes would have helped the villages in the region to overcome the drinking water crisis in the summer season.
 
 “The government has completely neglected the drinking water system in the rural areas. It neither readied plans to complete the ongoing schemes nor launched any new measures,” criticised Kasu Mahesh Reddy, YSR   constituency in-charge. 
 
 He lambasted the government saying complete small schemes like Anupu lift irrigation could not be completed to provide drinking water to villages in Macherla and Gurazala constituencies.
 
 
