JAIPUR: Rajput outfits have warned   (CBFC) chief   against ‘entering’ Rajasthan and threatened to welcome him with ‘shoes and chappals’ if he dares to come to the state.

 After   and  , Joshi is now being targeted by these outfits, which are upset with him for clearing the controversial movie ‘Padmaavat’.
 
 The CBFC chief is scheduled to address a Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF) session, ‘Main Aur Woh: Conversations With Myself’, on January 28. “It seems Bollywood personalities are taking us very lightly,” said Ajeet Singh Mandoli, leader of  , a Rajput outfit.
 
 
 
 
 “Words have no impact on people like Sanjay Leela Bhansali and Prasoon Joshi. Laton ke bhoot baaton se nahin mante (Stubborn people won't listen till they get a good thrashing). Karni Sena members will welcome them with shoes and chappals wherever we meet them. We have only shown the ‘trailer’ to Bhansali, if need be, we will show him the complete film,” said Mandoli.
 
 Mandoli called Joshi an accomplice in the entire episode and alleged that he played a key role in clearing the movie for release. “He conspired with film producers and did not call other historians for the screening. We have made it clear that he will not be allowed to attend JLF,” he said.
 
 Karni Sena activists said they would prevent him from attending the lit fest, which begins on January 25. The Karni Sena threat has sent alarm bells ringing and the police department is planning to deploy a battery of senior officials, along with security personnel, during JLF to prevent any untoward incident.
 
 Shree Rajput Karni Sena and other Rajput groups too on Friday claimed that Joshi would face severe consequences if he attends the literary festival. “Joshi and others, who supported the film, will not be allowed to enter Rajasthan. We don’t care what festival it is,” said Sukhdev Singh Gogamedi, president of Shree Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena. Gogamedi released a video to media persons in which he said that it was a fallacy to think that they would allow the film to be screened just because the filmmakers changed the film’s title.
 
 “Joshi said many wrong things about our ‘rajas’ (kings). He will not be allowed to attend the session in Jaipur,” said Naryan Singh Devrala, district president of Shree Rajput Karni Sena. He also claimed that people like Joshi and noted lyricist Javed Akhtar would face dire consequences if they attend the Jaipur fest.
 
 On Thursday, the Supreme Court had lifted the ban imposed by the state government on the movie. State home minister Gulab Chand Kataria had also said that the government would abide by the ruling.
 
