SA cricketer got a spiritual calling four years ago and has since been working with kids of Cape Town's most dangerous area.

 JP Duminy's first and middle names are the same of that of a famous Frenchman called Jean Paul Sartre, who was a literary critic, biographer and a political activist. Duminy admittedly does not know of any Sartre but some of the renowned philosopher's works have found replication in his life. In particular, was the existentialism and existential crisis one goes through in life.
 
 Duminy experienced that four years ago and took a plunge into spiritualism. Now he calls himself a born-again Christian.
 
 "Four years ago I was reborn as a Christian and my spiritual journey started from there," he says beginning a conversation with Mirror at a Newlands corporate box while the first Test between India and   was being intensely fought. "It has been a satisfying journey, my morals and values have changed. Now, it is about making a commitment, you accept Jesus as your Lord and saviour. It has been an amazing journey since," the 33-year-old all-rounder says.
 
 Duminy returned to Cape Town after playing an away game for Cape Cobras only the previous day (Monday) and looked fit like any of his South African teammates. But he did not feel any urge to go out and play there while the South African batsmen were falling to the Indian bowlers. "No, I am done with that (Test cricket)."
 
 He is still an active cricketer and plays white ball cricket for South Africa. So how does he balance the aggression on the field with the compassion he wants to spread off it? "I don't think you have to be one or the other. Because of your faith, you won't necessarily have to be less competitive on the field. I still have an aggressive attitude to the game. No matter what your faith and mindset are, any sportsman wants to give his best and I am no different. Playing for your country and being competitive are not going to compromise your values."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Values, morals and compassion... how did he suddenly become so religious? "Sorry not religious," he shoots back. Spiritual? "Yes, may be," he agrees and then admits all this was due to the mid-life existential crisis that he experienced. He was partying hard, drinking non-stop, and suddenly one day he realized that all this was not giving him any sense of satisfaction. "I always had a feeling that I was missing something.
 
 That emptiness is no longer there. I have filled that gap. There are no more excessive drinking and excessive partying."
 
 For a 33-year-old hardcore professional cricketer to get such a spiritual calling is rare. How? "It could be because of my disturbed childhood," he opens up. "I was fortunate that I grew up in a community (Mitchell Plain in Cape Town has been recently reported as the worst crime-prone area in South Africa) which is plagued by gangsterism and all sorts of crimes and abuse.
 
 "Fortunately, I did not get involved. That's why I started my initiative (JP 21Project). I want to take the kids of the area away from the negative influences of the community. I also want to show them that they have different options than what they have in their lives. It is not necessary that the options are what they see in front of them. In that process, there is an opportunity for raw talent to come through."
 
 So, Duminy has been involved with kids of the notorious area and some of the kids "have gone on to represent the Western Province." He says, "In nurseries and high schools, the kids are not only getting sporting opportunities but also academic opportunities." He handles over 2000 kids a week.
 
 "The age group players play Twenty20 cricket four days a week and then there are six-a-side tournaments, we also run internet programmes...then there would be a competition among other regions and finally the finals at the Newlands," he explains thanking the like-minded people who have backed his project and Western Province Cricket which is extending support to his cause.
 
 Finally, where can one see him after he is done with cricket? A pastor? "I've not planned for the future, focusing on my career. Both will happen simultaneously," he signs off.
 
 
