SRINGERI:   Sultan may be a controversial historical figure in  , but   says that the Muslim ruler stands as a symbol of communal harmony. As part of his statewide temple visit ahead of the assembly polls, the   president visited the Sringeri Sharadamba Peeta on Wednesday. There, in reply to a question on Tipu’s association with the Hindu mutt, he was impressed when told that the ruler had helped the temple during its hour of crisis. 

 
 Rahul, who arrived at the temple town at 11.45am, was dressed in traditional temple attire of a dhothi and shalya. He was accompanied by KPCC spokesperson K Diwakar and mutt officials. Diwakar said   had asked on Tipu’s connection with the mutt. “I told him about a letter Tipu had written to the then seer of the mutt and the donations the ruler had made. 
 
 Rahul was impressed by this historical event and lauded Karnataka for being an example of the communal harmony,” Diwakar said. Rahul’s assertion that Tipu was secular is likely to trigger a war of words between Congress and BJP, given that the saffron party opposed birth anniversary celebrations of the Mysuru ruler and labelled him communal. 
 
 Rahul, who crossed the river Tunga bridge barefoot, asked mutt scholars about the “frog and snake” story associated with the Sringeri temple. They told Rahul that Adi Shankaracharya decided to set up a mutt there after seeing a snake shading a frog which was in labour from the scorching sun. “Impressed by the story, Rahul said he is fortunate to be on this pious land as everyone here lived in harmony,” Diwakar said. 
 
 Rahul didn’t speak to reporters at the mutt premises, but he broke security cordon to interact with locals. In Chikkamagaluru, about 85km from Sringeri, Rahul sought to strike a chord with the electorate by referring to former PM Indira Gandhi in her ‘karmabhoomi’ and likening himself to her. “She worked for the poor, downtrodden, labourers, and farmers. I am like her,” Rahul said.
 
  Meanwhile, in a pitch at soft Hindutva, Rahul, after a meeting with Sringeri mutt pontiff Bharati Tirtha Swami, interacted with students of Sadvidya Sanjivini Sanskrit Mahapathashala at the mutt and promised to promote the ancient language. “He assured of possible support from both the state and the Central government to promote Sanskrit and manuscripts. He assured us of a special package and a dedicated institute,” a student said.
 
