BATHINDA: Acting on the statements of four witnesses in the Maur blast case recorded in the   court on Thursday, the special investigations team (SIT) is looking into the role of three persons from Dabwali in Haryana and Mansa in Punjab in fabricating the   800 car used in the crime on January 31, 2017. Seven persons had died in the blast. 

 According to information available, out of the three persons named by witnesses, two used to work at an automobile workshop at Dera Sacha Sauda in Sirsa till August 25, 2017, when sect chief   was convicted in a rape case. After the conviction, they shifted to another workshop in Sirsa. 
 
 The probe team is investigating whether they fitted the improvised explosive device (IED) in the car and took it to Maur from Sirsa. SIT claimed to have got vital clues in the case. 
 
 Four persons Hapreet Singh of Sirsa, Sunil Kumar of   near Sirsa, Krishan Kumar of Vidhata and Harmel Singh of Vijaynagar in Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan had on Thursday recorded their statements in a court at Talwandi Sabo after the SIT produced them as witnesses. Sources said all four witnesses, who were working as fitters and painters at the Sirsa dera workshop, had named three persons who made them modify the car by repainting and removing its chassis number and fit a battery in the car.
 
 When contacted, the counter intelligence deputy inspector general of police (DIG)   said these four persons, after going through the newspaper reports on January 31 - the first death anniversary of those killed in blast - had approached the police. "They said they could identify the car if it was shown to them. Two of them had identified the car at Maur police station, and on February 7 and on February 8 recorded statements as witness in the court. We are minutely going through the statement and will act accordingly," he said.
 
 However, he refrained from naming the three persons mentioned by these witnesses. Another senior member of the SIT confirmed that the witnesses had named three persons and they were being named in the original case.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress leader and former MLA Harminder Singh Jassi remained inaccessible. Jassi's daughter is married to dera head Gurmeet's son. It was said the blast was targeted at Jassi, who was contesting from Maur assembly constituency in 2017 and busy canvassing then. 
 
 Jassi was also called by the SIT, in the case of violence on August 25, 2017, in Panchkula following the dera head's conviction in rape cases. 
 
 As many as 36 persons had died in the violence.
 
 
