PATNA: Altogether 27 MBBS and postgraduate students received gold medals at the 48th foundation day celebrations of   on Monday.

 Rahul Jain bagged the gold medal and certificate for overall postgraduate topper while Pranay Prashant had the honour of being the overall MBBS topper.
 
 State health minister Mangal Pandey handed over the medals and certificates to the students at a function organized on the occasion. He said under the Rs1100-crore development plan for   in three phases, the state government aims to bring the college and hospital to one campus. At present, it is run from three different locations.
 
 “Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Limited (BMSICL) has been given the task to develop the DPR in the next few days. A centre of excellence, a vaccine store, a college and hospital for BSc nursing staff, a medical record room, a 350-seat lecture theatre and a CT/MRI building have already come up at the cost of Rs88 crore in the first phase of the development plan,” Pandey said. 
 
 He said the first phase would be completed in the next four years with an estimated expenditure of Rs465 crore. “A 2500-bed hospital, a state level trauma centre, a disaster management cell, hostel for PG and MBBS students, residential facilities for staff and faculty members would also be built in the later stages,” Pandey said. He also requested doctors present on the occasion to make suggestions regarding regularized recruitment of doctors and the appointment of faculties on a timely basis.
 
 Health department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar announced a directorate of medical education within the department for which the formalities would be completed within the next four months. Talking about the   that has been approved by the Union cabinet, he said it would impact the healthcare providers greatly. “Almost 75% of the doctors live in the urban areas, 2% in the rural areas while 23% of them are at the block headquarters, whereas 88% of the population lives in rural areas. There is a great need to regulate this division in the healthcare services,” Kumar said.
 
 To bridge the gap between the demand and supply, the   Bill proposes an increase in the proportion of seats in private medical colleges and allow Ayush doctors to practise a modern system of medicine after completing a bridge course.
 
 
