BHUBANESWAR: At 31, Raja   is fairly successful in his career and life. He works with a multinational company in Bengaluru with Rs 12 lakh + annual package and three books to his credit as an author. That’s not unusual! But given the fact that the Bhubaneswar native is blind, who lost his vision due to genetic disorders during his student days, makes his success an example for others.

 An engineer with   for past six years, Raja’s core job is accessibility testing of software for the visually challenged apart from software development. Though he can’t see, the bachelor leads a fairly independent life: stays alone in a rented accommodation and cooks for self, can easily commute alone by self-booking app-based cabs.
 
 “I come from a non-technical background. I did my masters in English language besides an advanced computer training course for the visually challenged offered by  . The TCS course helped me get an engineer’s job as part of campus placement drive,” says he. “Though I can’t see, I am comfortable using computer thanks to specialised software Screen reader,” says he.
 
 Taking time out from the daily grind of his demanding corporate job, Raja has been writing books, which is his passion. His first novel, Bleeding Barriers captures the twists and turns in the life of two couples, one whose lives were shattered by Mumbai rain and the other, haunted by the advent of a snooping serial killer. Two of his other novels, ‘Of Love, Intimacy and Emptiness’ and ‘Love in the Land of Stigma,’ would hit the stands soon. He is currently busy writing another on a blind man’s love story. “It’s not on me, but obviously will have lot of my own experience,” says he.
 
 Eldest of two siblings, Raja was in Class IX when his family realised he has started losing vision to a genetic disorder, juvenile macular degeneration, which would ultimately make him blind. “Initially, when visibility of one of my eyes reduced, we thought it as a temporary disorder, which can be cured. But after making rounds of multiple hospitals, we realised there is no cure and ultimately I can’t see this beautiful world anymore,” says he.
 
 “I was still able to see till class XII to a great extent though the vision was reducing. Realising what lies ahead, my parents often discussed strategy. I learnt mobility and other intricacies of living an independent life from  , a Begngaluru-based organization which assists for rehabilitation of the visually impaired. My parents were extremely supportive and positive in their attitude in all this,” says he.
 
 Raja feels people who are blind at birth may not have to face vision adjustment challenges and pains like him whose sight was affected at a later stage. “Continual degeneration involves a lot of physical as well as psychological readjustments. Every time you lose some vision it is like you die again. I have died multiple times in my life. But that phase is gone. I have learned to live with the new reality,” says he.
 
 Raja’s father,   retired as a professor of psychology from   here while his mother Nini is a homemaker. “It was very difficult to cope with it initially. No pleasure can match watching your child grow. But imagine our plights as parents realising that our son is gradually losing his vision and can’t see us anymore over a period of time. And we can’t do much. We decided if not medically, we must give him the best possible support. Once we accepted the fact, it was easier after that,” said Arabinda.
 
