BENGALURU: They may indulge in chest-thumping when trumpeting the strides made by Karnataka in science and technology, but state politicians have no qualms conducting rituals and religious ceremonies, hoping they will impact their electoral fate.

 Performing pujas and homas is something politicians do through the year, but this election season is seeing an increase in such practices. A few are even being accused of taking recourse to sorcery and black magic. Padmanabha Prasanna, founder of the   (KJP) on Wednesday accused   leader Shobha Karandlaje of performing witchcraft. “I have authentic information that she resorted to black magic to harm me. She went to Nepal to perform the ritual, which involves burying a pig alive. She does it whenever she wants to defeat her rivals,” Prasanna said at a press conference.
 
 Denying the allegation, Shobha said, “This mudslinging doesn’t surprise me, especially during elections. There is a difference between black magic and performing religious rituals. I do the latter since I’m a true Hindu believer.”
 
 The range of rituals politicians perform during elections, however, is mind-boggling. V Bhanuprakash Sharma, well-known astrologer and priest from Srirangapatna, said he had been getting enquiries and a few leaders performed rituals soon after the lunar eclipse last month.
 
 Among the most soughtafter rituals are Mohanagauri Yaga, which empowers the performer to win an empire; Shatru Samhara Yaga to overcome rivals and Raja Vashikaranam to gain advantage over rivals. The list includes eerie rituals like Swetha Varaha -- where a white pig is buried alive -- and   -- where eight black pigs are interred alive. “I have presided over some rituals performed by some top politicians from the state,” Sharma admitted.
 
 A former chief minister, when in power, performed a ritual at a temple in Kerala, which involved sacrificing a donkey for the deity and eating its meat as prasada. Earlier, on an amavasya, the same leader had spent an entire night lying naked on a plantain leaf on the banks of the river   in Srirangapatna. All to retain his seat, rendered shaky.
 
 Netas also observe certain rituals to ward off the spell cast on them by rivals. Ramanuja Jois, a Vedic scholar and astrologer from Koppa, near Sringeri, Chikkamagaluru district, said politicians first perform rituals insuring them from rivals, before going on the offensive. Manyu Suktha involves several yagas which provide immunity to the performer from sorcery. Aditya Hrudaya, a ritual to appease the sun god, and Aruna Parayana — chanting the surya mantra repetitively — are part of Manyu Sukta, performed over two days.
 
 “Raja Vashikarana is the use of occult science, in which mystic energy and tantric powers are used to control other people’s minds, thoughts and actions,” said Sharma.
 
 Shatru Samhara, says Sharma, is a homa performed by beleaguered politicians. “It works as an armour against enemies, evil eyes, curses, and gives power to overcome obstacles,” he said. Among the common rituals are Chandi Yaga and Ati Rudra Maha Yaga, which JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda recently performed in Sringeri.
 
 
