KOCHI: In an attempt to   roads leading to   town, the local-self-government department (LSGD) in the district has mooted a plan to develop a route linking S N Junction,  , Karingachira and Puthiyakavu.

 Irumpanam junction will witness major development with a four-lane elevated  , which will be constructed after doing away with the existing junction.
 
 The proposal is to construct a two-lane flyover from the eastern side of the Irumpanam railway over bridge (ROB) to Irumpanam Junction, which will proceed as an elevated roundabout, and the flyover will end just before Karingachira junction, from there a new road will be constructed towards Puthiyakavu.
 
 
  
 
 The existing signal junction will be converted into a big parking area. There will be access roads to four directions. Vehicles which do not want to enter the roundabout can take these access roads. Vehicles coming from Ambalamugal, Kakkanad and S N Junction towards Pettah can enter the roundabout and exit without entering Tripunithura town. Vehicles moving through Sea Port-Airport Road towards Kottayam can also proceed to the roundabout and exit without touching the town.
 
 The new road from Karingachira junction to Puthiyakavu will be laid through paddy land. “An existing small, narrow road from Karingachira junction, will be widened and extended to Puthiyakavu, which in turn touches the upcoming Poothotta-Vaikom road. The proposed project will again be reviewed at the meeting to be held by district planning committee on Saturday as part of developing comprehensive district plan for Ernakulam,” said LSGD executive engineer Jalajamani V D. Currently, people are using the Ettumanoor-Vaikom-Tripunithura Road to reach Ernakulam city. When traffic diversion is required, vehicles take a detour through  , which runs parallel to the Ettumanoor-Vaikom-Tripunithura Road.
 
 The road development project will be included in the comprehensive plan for district development. The development of a roundabout gains support as accidents are frequently reported from Irumpanam Junction and adjacent areas.
 
 “The roundabout will improve the connectivity between Seaport-Airport Road and Pettah-Vaikom road. Vehicles often speed above permissible limits while aproaching Irumpanam Junction, making it accident prone. With the proposed project, we plan to bring down the speed of vehicles to 50km,” said another LSGD official.
 
 The plan was unveiled at a seminar conducted last week as part of developing comprehensive district plan. The feasibility study as well as preparation of estimates will be done at a later stage.
 
 “The new road will be linked with proposed 13.5km-long Poothotta-Vaikom Road, which will be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 300 crore,” said Tripunithura MLA M Swaraj.
 
 Meanwhile, PWD officials said they have completed the investigation survey of the Poothotta-Vaikom Road. It will be submitted to the state government for approval. With   set to reach till S N Junction, the temple town expects more number of visitors. This could lead to further congestion on the narrow roads in Tripunuthura.
 
 “When the Metro reaches S N Junction, we will have to develop the junction and Irumpanam ROB to accommodate more vehicles. We will do it at a later stage after the proposed project is completed,” the official said.
 
 
