GHAZIABAD: A 24-year-old   was killed as a car, allegedly being driven by drunk revellers during  , rammed into his motorcycle in Meerut on Friday. The constable, Himanshu, was posted at Modinagar police station in Ghaziabad.

 According to police, Himanshu was on official duty when he met with the accident. He was riding a   motorcycle and was on his way to deliver summons to a person when the   took place near Mawana Khurd police outpost on Meerut-Bijnor road in Meerut.
 
 Witnesses told police that a WagonR moving on the wrong side of the road and at a very high speed crashed into the motorcycle head on.
 
 “From the impact of the collision, it is clear that the WagonR was driving on the wrong side. The front right side of the car has been completely damaged. We found empty beer bottles, a liquor bottle, disposable plastic cups, mineral water bottles and Holi colours inside the WagonR,” Himanshu’s elder brother, Nitin, told TOI.
 
 The police have seized the WagonR, which bears a Delhi registration number. The accident took place around 10am on March 2. Himanshu succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital in Meerut around 3 pm that day. 
 
 According to his family members, he had got the job in lieu of his father, Dhara Singh, a head constable, who had died while in service in 2009.
 
 An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons at Mawana police station in Meerut under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death due to negligence) of IPC. “From the evidence collected, it is clear the car occupants were on a joyride after getting high on alcohol during Holi celebrations. Himanshu had told us in his statement that there were three men inside the car. All of them fled leaving an injured Himanshu on the road. He was rushed to the hospital by local people and cops at the outpost. We are yet to ascertain the identity of the car occupants,” said SHO, Mawana, Brijesh Kumar.
 
 In yet another accident involving a policeman, a 32-year-old constable was killed on March 3. The constable, Rajneesh, who was posted at Tronica City police station, was cremated on Sunday after full state honours at the police lines.
 
 “Rajneesh was part of a team that had been mobilised on Saturday to deal with protesters who had blocked the   road alleging unfair probe into a road accident. Rajneesh was rushing to his place of duty on a motorcycle when he lost balance and toppled on to a road divider and suffered head injuries. He died late on Saturday night in a private hospital,” SP (rural) Arvind Maurya said.
 
 
