PATNA: With the advent of summer,   are doing   as   have started drinking it to keep themselves hydrated. Mosambi (citrus limetta), orange,   and pineapple juice is in high demand. A glass of   is sold between Rs20 and Rs 80, depending on its size and the type of fruit.

 Many health-conscious adults are also turning to vegetable juice this summer. Juice of bitter gourd, beetroot and carrot is also in high demand.
 
 “Youngsters have started taking interest in fruit juice in the last ten years. This year, the fruit juice sales started from the end of February itself. I have over 300 customers every day in the peak summer months of May and June,” said Chunnu Lal Shah, who has been selling fruit juice near Fraser Road for the past 32 years.
 
 Hundreds of customers visit juice shops at Income Tax roundabout every day. Juices and shakes are available between Rs 30 and Rs 80 per glass there. 
 
 “With the rise in temperature, the number of customers also shoots up. We have also started selling milkshake and mango shake as the youths nowadays prefer such drinks,” said Ajit Prasad, who runs a juice shop at I-T roundabout.
 
 “For me, business will pick up when heatwave starts blowing. Not many customers are turning up at my stall now, but I get nearly 100 customers per day for ‘aam ka panna’ (raw mango squash) alone during peak summer months of May and June,” said Surendra Shah, who has been selling ‘bael’ juice and ‘aam ka panna’ at Fraser Road for the past 28 years.
 
 Coconut water is also in high demand during summer. “People have become health-conscious these days. In summer, as many as 200 college students visit my stall every day day,” said Shiv Pal, who sells coconut water at I-T roundabout.
 
 ‘Sattu’, the traditional Bihari drink, however, seems to have lost its charm. Pawan Kumar, who runs a cart of sattu near the Patna high court, said the number of his customers has been falling every year. “The demand for fruit juice has increased, but I have experienced that sattu isn’t doing so well. While 100 people used visit me per day earlier, the number has come down to 50 these days,” he said. 
 
 
