NEW DELHI:   does not want you to change streams or take up unexplored subjects in undergraduate, each of which will lead to deduction in aggregate.

 Instead, you will be at an advantage if you choose the subject you wish to major in for calculation of final aggregate. The aggregate to meet the cut-off can be calculated using a combination of best-of-four subjects ( ). For this, it helps to include a subject that will be pursued in the undergraduate honours degree.
 
 
  
 
 Inclusion of a language (Hindi or English) is a must for calculation of aggregate for many courses, though not all. For example, for honours in physical science, three subjects —physics, chemistry/computer sciences, maths — will be required to calculate the aggregate.
 
 Similarly, for honours in life sciences, physics, chemistry, biology/ biotechnology will be considered. However, to be eligible, a candidate must have passed in English. For BCom (H), an applicant should have mandatorily studied and passed mathematics or business mathematics, though it is not necessary to add them to the BFS. The best-of-four will be calculated with one subject from either English or Hindi (List C1-Part 1) and three subjects out of mathematics, accountancy, business studies/commerce or economics (List C1-Part 2).
 
 In this case no deductions will be made. However, if a B Com (H) applicant uses biology, chemistry, home science, sociology, psychology, philosophy, political science (List C2), to calculate the BFS, a deduction of 1% will be made for every subject added. Similarly, if a subject included in the BFS is not listed in C1-Part 2 or C2, every inclusion will call for a 2.5% deduction in the aggregate. While subjects in C1 are largely core subjects, those in C2 include electives usually offered to commerce students.
 
 The aggregate calculation for admission to honours courses of arts and humanities will primarily include one language and three best subjects from Italian, Punjabi, accountancy, French, psychology, geography, mathematics, Sanskrit, music, sociology, German, Spanish, commerce/business studies (List A).
 
 If an applicant doesn’t include List A subjects in the best four, then a deduction of 2.5% will be levied for each subject. For admission to BA (H) in Journalism, mass media will be treated as an academic subject and not vocational one, i.e., no deduction will be made.
 
 However, the best-of-four will be calculated the same way as for other arts subjects. For admission to language honours programmes, the university grants a 2% advantage for having studied the language and including it in the best-of-four. Similarly, an applicant who chooses from Modern Indian Language (MIL) to get into a college that offers MIL will get a 10% points advantage in the aggregate. The university, however, discourages the change of stream from Class XII to college.
 
 For instance, for the BA programme, a student applying from commerce stream will have to suffer a5% deduction on the BFS. Although an applicant will be allowed to take one non-listed subject in the BFS, more than that will call for a 2.5% deduction. This means, if a commerce student applies for BA programme and uses two non-listed subjects in the BFS, a 7.5% (5% for stream change, 2.5% for extra non-listed subject) will be made.
 
 This deduction,   officials said, has been introduced to discourage change of streams, especially because an arts programme has been created for arts students alone, even though there is no bar on others entering the programme.
 
