Nagpur: Dismissing a woman’s objection on maintainability of husband’s appeal for their child’s custody under Civil Procedure Code, Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court ruled that   can act as civil court and the legislature has accorded it all the powers to do so.

 The woman had challenged the appeal filed under Section 47 of the Guardians and Wards Act, 1890, and also amendment made under Order 43, Rule 1(a), read with Section 104 of Civil Procedure Code (CPC). After the family court admitted the husband’s plea, the woman contended that CPC’s Section couldn’t be applicable to the family court’s order as it’s not a civil court. Arguing that the family court is going out of its jurisdiction, the woman said there’s a difference between a proper civil court and its equivalent.
 
 “The legislature has accorded family court equal status and treatment so that nobody could thrust inferior status on it. To say otherwise is to go against the legislative intent. A family court, by virtue of the provisions of Section 10 (1) of the Family Courts Act would have to be considered as equal to a civil court, no less and no more,” a single-judge bench of Justice Sunil Shukre held.
 
 Citing Section 10, the judge observed that the CPC’s provisions are expressly made applicable to the family court. “In order to remove any doubt about this court’s nomenclature, the legislature expressed itself to clear it off stating that family court shall be deemed to be a civil one.”
 
 Justice Shukre added that Section 10 could be divided into two parts. “First part relates to the applicability of the CPC’s provisions to a family court which has the effect of clothing it with all those powers a civil court would have. Second contains a declaration of the legislative intent that the family court, by fiction of law, be deemed to be a civil court,” he said.
 
 Justice Shukre further said a combined reading of these two parts would clearly show that a family court got all those powers of a civil court under the CPC. “When the law declares status of a particular court, it can’t be considered to be separate and distinct from a civil court. For all purposes, it is considered to be a civil court,” the judge added.
 
 Deliberating further, he said the family court can’t be distinguished from a naturally born civil court.
 
 “As long as the status and powers of both courts are same, it makes no difference whether a progeny is born naturally of fictionally. After all, it is for parents to distinguish between their natural progeny and artificially born one. If they treat them equally and see no difference in them, nobody else can treat and see them differently,” the court said before dismissing the objection.
 
 
