In the latest episode of  , Vedika is resting on the bed while Deep observes her. Tara (Arohi) comes in and asks what was he doing there and questions if he wanted to kill her too. Deep says he wanted to ask some questions.

 
 Vedika wakes up and Deep begins to ask her questions. Roma and Prithvi come in as well. Vedika says that people were talking about Roma and Virat Raichand in the hospital so she got to know where their address was. Roma says she did the right thing. Vedika asks for a favour and asks permission to stay with them. Roma agrees. Virat and Deep are upset with her decision.
 
 Virat feels that Roma made a wrong decision and doubts Vedika. Roma says that she wanted to protect her reputation in front of the media and this way, Niku will be in their custody as well.
 
 Prithvi talks to Vedika and asks why is she here. He asks how did she find Niku. Vedika tells him that no matter what he does, he cannot get rid of her.
 
 Deep and Virat argue over Niku's death. Virat says he will take care of unfinished business. Roma takes Deep away to discuss something. Vedika gets a message from someone congratulating her for doing the work she was assigned to and warns her to be careful around Deep and Virat.
 
 Virat comes to Niku’s room and tries to give him a lethal injection. A doctor comes in and stops him, saying that Niku wasn't well and had to be treated. Virat gets rid of the doctor but he threatens to call the police.
 
 Roma questions Deep about his behaviour. Deep says that he was worried about Roma's image because of what Virat did. The real Arohi tries to stop the doctor while the media comes to take Roma's interview. Virat asks the doctor to find out who called him. The doctor says he got a call from a woman. Virat doubts Deep's hand in it.
 
 Arohi is relieved to see Niku. She thanks Chawanni for helping her. Arohi says that she forgot to ask the doctor about the mystery woman.
 
 Roma and Virat also wonder who the woman was. Virat and Deep think that Vedika was the one who tipped off the doctor. She tells Virat and Deep to close the Niku chapter as she wants to concentrate on her career. Chawanni asks Arohi to do something about Niku to save him from danger.
 
 Virat points a gun at Vedika and asks her to reveal the truth. Vedika says she hadn't done anything. Tara (Arohi) tries to stop him. Prithvi comes to her rescue and says Vedika was telling the truth. Virat lets her go and thinks who else could it be who tried to betray him.
 
