Tuticorin: Activists and villagers who are demanding the closure of Sterlite copper plant in Tuticorin blocked three trucks that were carrying tonnes of ore required for making copper. The incident created a flutter at the side entrance of the plant in the late hours of Tuesday, as the demonstrators alleged that the plant is functioning despite not receiving clearance from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB).

 One of the activists, V Ramachandran told TOI that a vessel with 12,000 tonne of ore had come to the Tuticorin port and the ore had to be transported to Sterlite in hundreds of trucks. “We received information about it late on Tuesday evening and informed the collector and superintendent of police and a senior TNPCB official in Tuticorin through WhatsApp and also lodged an online complaint around 8.30pm,” he said.
 
 He alleged that there was no action the same and eight trucks made their way into the plant till 10.30pm.
 
  “We came to know that eight more trucks were ready with the ore and were about to be transported to the plant. About 50 people stopped the vehicles near the gate through which they were about to enter the plant, as the government machinery failed to act,” he added.
 
 The trucks were blocked one after the other as they reached the plant between 10.30pm and 11pm. SIPCOT police held talks with the protesters, after which the trucks were taken to the SIPCOT police station. 
 
 “If not for resuming production why else would they transport such a large consignment of ore to the plant?” asked an activist.
 
 On Wednesday, protesters picketed the office of the company (Seapol) that is transporting ore to Sterlite. In a demonstration held in front of the company office on the premises of the V O Chidambaranar Port, the protesters warned that they would block the trucks carrying ore if the company continued transporting it to the plant. They also petitioned the deputy chairman of the port over the issue.
 
 However, a company representative denied allegations that they have resumed production. “The smelter work is yet to be completed, due to which it is impossible to resume production,” he said and added that they were transporting raw materials to the storage facility inside the plant. He also said that the government has not clamped other activities of the plant such as importing raw materials and exporting finished products.
 
 Meanwhile, local minister Kadambur C Raju (information and publicity) has appealed to the villagers and activists who are staging a series of protests from February 12 to call off the protests. Talking to reporters at Kovilpatti here on Wednesday, the minister said that the TNPCB’s denial to renew the licence given to Sterlite is a step towards closure of the plant. Hence, people should call off the protest, he added.
 
 
