HYDERABAD: Panjagutta police station was adjudged the second best police station in the country.   police station in Coimbatore walked away with top honours, while Gudumba police station in Lucknow took the third spot. The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) has ranked police stations across the country based on 360 parameters.

 An announcement to this effect was made at the ongoing annual conference of DGPs/ IGPs at  , Tekanpur in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday. Union home minister Rajnath Singh presented trophies to the winning station house officers, including Panjagutta inspector S Ravinder, on the first day of the conference.
  
  
 
 Telangana police had nominated two police stations — Panjagutta and Jubilee Hills — while applying for the best police station category. In all, 140 police stations across India sent in their nominations.
 
 “We were confident that one of the two police stations from Hyderabad will bag the award. In the last 10 months, we had worked very hard in bringing transformation at the police station on various aspects,” an elated Ravinder told STOIon phone from MP.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (West Zone)   said providing the infrastructure need for policemen and public at the police station was the key. “By making the needed infrastructure available for policemen, their performance has enhanced, which helped in gaining confidence of the public,’’ he added.
 
 The MHA had decided to   in the country at the last annual conference of DGPs/IGPs in Hyderabad.
 
 Accordingly, the ranking, outcome of a survey conducted by MHA in coordination with   (QCI), was done based on 360 parameters, including cleanliness of a washroom at the police station.
 
 QCI members independently verified with 100 people from different walks of life in   station limits and took their feedback about the Panjagutta police station. Also, different teams assessed parameters like performance, infrastructure and amenities in the last three months.
 
 Telangana police feel RS Puram PS could better Panjagutta in the ranks as it had all wings, including women police station, traffic and others, under one roof.
 
