Tirunelveli: Representatives of various political parties have asked the Tirunelveli collector for a whitepaper on the water storage in reservoirs in the district and their utilisation. They made the representation after the water level in the 156ft tall Servalar dam that was 19ft till Tuesday climbed up to 49ft on Wednesday and was back to 19 feet on Thursday. One of the petitioners A Viyanarasu, state organiser of Naam Tamilar Katchi, said the government insists on water storage at the house level but the government has failed to store water in its reservoirs. “How can water level in the dam drop by 30ft? Is the government trying to help the huge companies on the banks of the river by providing them more water?” he asked. Another petitioner, district secretary of Tamilaga Makkal Jananayaka Katchi said the pisanam season has almost come to an end and most farmers have already harvested their paddy. “Very few farmers are yet to harvest and they too don’t need water as the paddy seeds have ripened,” he said and questioned the need for such large quantity of water being released in Thamirabarani river. Due to heavy release of water in the dam and aftermath of the heavy downpour on Tuesday night the force and quantity of water flowing in Thamirabarani was much more than usual. Surprisingly, during the 24 hours till 8am on Thursday, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts recorded an average rainfall of 8.98mm and 1.42mm, respectively, against 62.19mm and 55.83mm on the previous day. Meanwhile, collector Sandeep Nanduri told TOI that there is no foul play behind releasing water from Servalar dam. “The dam is tall but a small one. Its capacity is only 1,225 million cubic feet (mcft) against Papanasam and Manimuthar dams that have a capacity of 5,500 and 5,511 mcft, respectively. Water is released from Servalar on priority as repair works are underway,” he said. However, the collector claimed that they are not draining water from Servalar. He said that water from Papanasam dam has been closed since Tuesday to store water for the summer. “Thamirabarani meets drinking water requirement of three districts, for which 350 to 400 cusecs is required. On Thursday, 350 cusecs is released from the dam. Since it is a smaller dam it reflected with drastic drop in water level,” he claimed. Nanduri also said that people need not fear about the drinking water requirements, as there is more than 32ft water in Papanasam, while Manimuthar dam has water for 83.85ft. “Water discharged for pisanam cultivation will be stopped when the water level touches 80ft. Below 80ft it is only for drinking water purposes,” he added. On the other hand he said that water utility for industrial purposes would be reviewed when crisis is likely.