Trichy: House burglaries and chain snatchings continued uninhibited in Trichy on Wednesday leaving the residents high and dry. 

 The city police came across two cases of house burglaries in Trichy city limits on Wednesday much to the consternation of the residents. The city also witnessed two chain snatching incidents - one on Bird’s road in Cantonment and the other on the busy Walajah road in Woraiyur on Wednesday. 
 
 The residence of B Srilakshmi at Cheran street in Anbil Nagar near Trichy international airport was looted by burglars. The break-in came to light only when she returned home on Wednesday morning after staying with her daughter in Chennai for three weeks.
 
 She was stunned to find the front door of the house broken and things scattered on the floor inside her house. Further search revealed that the burglars had looted her house. 
 
 In fact, locked homes in the city have been easy targets for burglars be it day or night.
 
 According to her complaint lodged with the airport police, 10 sovereigns of gold ornaments worth Rs 1 lakh, silver vessels valued at Rs 15,000, television set worth Rs 20,000, CCTV camera worth Rs 5,000, a handy camera worth Rs 2,000 and a laptop worth Rs 10,000 were found missing. The total value of the stolen articles was estimated at Rs 1.52 lakh.
 
 The airport police visited the spot and enquired with the people in the locality. The police said that the burglars even took away the CCTV camera storage device to tamper with the evidence. The exact date of the burglary was yet to be ascertained.
 
 Another break-in was reported at the Big Sourashtra Street during daytime on Wednesday. The resident, S Lakshmi, 38 and her husband had left for work around 8.00 am after locking the house. Lakshmi who returned home for lunch saw the broken main door and 5 sovereigns of gold ornaments kept in the bureau missing. Fort crime police have registered a case against unknown persons for the burglary.
 
 The city also witnessed two chain snatching incidents - one on Bird’s road in Cantonment and the other on the busy Walajah road in Woraiyur on Wednesday. The snatching on Bird’s road took place at 7.35pm when Rani, 47, of Othakadai, who works as receptionist at a motorcycle showroom in the city, was returning home from work. 
 
 When she was walking opposite Dinamalar office, a couple of men on a motorcycle coming in the opposite direction snatched the gold chain around her neck and fled.
 
 She lodged a complaint at the Cantonment police station later in the night stating that the snatched chain weighed seven sovereigns. The police have registered a case. 
 
 The second snatching took place on the busy Walajah road in congested Woraiyur. The victim, R Rajeswari from South Vandikara street in Woraiyur, and her friend were walking on the road at 9.15pm when the incident happened. 
 
 A couple of men on a bike coming in the opposite direction snatched her gold chain and fled even before the woman was able to raise an alarm.
 
 The woman lodged a complaint with the police stating that the snatchers escaped with her five sovereign gold chain.
 
  The police estimated the value of the chain at 55,000 and have registered a case.
 
 
