NEW DELHI: A significant increase in healthcare facilities, particularly in smaller towns and villages, is expected with the launch of the   ( ). 

 Insurers also say that they will have more bargaining power in controlling costs of procedures and the scheme could lead to innovations in health   as this brings under its umbrella 40% of India’s population.
 
 The NHPS envisages a cover of Rs 5 lakh for poor and vulnerable families for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation. The NHPS will replace the   (RSBY), which provides an annual coverage of Rs 30,000. The Rs 5-lakh cover actually is an upgrade of the Rs 1-lakh coverage announced by the FM in 2016 Budget.
 
 It is not yet clear how the government will fund a scheme which is expected to cost up to Rs 50,000 crore if the Rs 5-lakh cover has the same terms as existing group policies.
 
  chairman G Srinivasan said that on an average the premium per family could be estimated to be in the Rs 4,000-5,000 range. “This is a massive scheme covering close to 40% of the population and covers three times more people than what the current RSBY covers,” said Srinivasan.
 
 According to   chairman Kamesh Goyal, the advantage of group insurance for consumers will be the absence of exclusions. “In group covers, complaints are lower because claims are not rejected for pre-existing conditions. The challenge is that as people are growing older, premium goes up dramatically,” said Goyal.
 
 Insurers say that even under the old RSBY scheme, there has been an increase in the number of smaller healthcare facilities across the country. A sum insured of Rs 5 lakh would cover most of the tertiary care procedures.
 
 While insurance companies are bullish on an insurance-backed healthcare plan, there are some who feel that the spending should be through public healthcare. “Universal health insurance through private hospitals has not worked for poor anywhere.
 
 Biggest beneficiaries are the private hospitals and insurance companies. There is no substitute for public healthcare,” former finance secretary Arvind Mayaram said on a micro-blogging site.
 
