CHENNAI: Travelling out of Chennai is set to become cheaper as the   has recommended levying of User Development Fee from next year, reports V Ayyappan. 

 The   applied had for extending or revising the   till 2021 for  . However, it was found that in the last five years, the money collected under UDF was not spent to develop the city airport. 
 
 
 
  
 The country’s airport tariffs regulator has suggested to Airports Authority of India that it not charge flyers user development fee (UDF) at Chennai International Airport from next year.
 
 The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India ( ) recommended that AAI, AII facilty’s operator, discontinue the charge — a contentious issue due to the airport’s capacity constraints amd limited amenities — because it failed to use money it collected to develop the airport in the past five years.
 
 AAI has in recent years collected between ₹250 crore and ₹300 crore and more as UDF annually.
 
 The fee, for passengers on flights departing the city, is Rs 667 for flyers headed to international destinations and Rs 166 for those on flights to domestic endpoints.
 
 The tariff may not appear to be significant, given that flyers have to contend with hourly fluctuations of thousands of rupees in ticket prices, but UDF has proven to be a sticking point between AERA, operators and customers in several airports across the country. In Hyderabad, for instance, operators GMR Airports challenged in the AP high court an AERA order abolishing UDF at the facility in February 2014.
 
 The AERA recommendation for the Chennai aorport follows an AAI application to extend or revise the UDF till 2021. An operator must revise UDF every five years based on its investment in an airport. AAI made no additional investment in the airport after putting up steel and glass installations in its domestic and international terminals in 2013 — part of the first phase of a ₹2,000-crore expansion project by the operator.
 
 A meet between stakeholders next month could approve the AERA suggestion.
 
 “We will gather inputs from airlines, government agencies and passengers at the meeting,” an AAI official said. “Based on these inputs, AERA will decide whether to implement the suggestion.”
 
 AAI wanted to charge a passenger service fee of ₹400 for international passengers and ₹200 for domestic passengers, but AERA rejected the proposal, saying AAI would collect in excess of ₹1,318crore.
 
 Flyers from Chennai started to pay UDF from 2013. “We had five years to recover costs,” the official said. “Because there is pending work, AERA suggested that we could collect UDF till the end of 2018, not after that. Passengers may have to resume paying UDF post 2021, after AAI completes an integrated terminal, rapid-exit taxiways and straightens a taxiway.”
 
 
 
 
