INDORE: If Vidarbha have become a champion side this year, the credit must go to the city’s first international cricketer  . He has played a vital role behind the scenes.

 As Narendra Hirwani, the former India leg-spinner and National Cricket Academy’s chief coach, put it, “Prashant has always been a visionary person. Like a businessman, he makes quick and spot on decisions. He took correct decisions in 2009 when the academy was formed in Nagpur and this year he made a good move to bring in   as Vidarbha coach,” he said.
 
 In his playing days, Vaidya didn’t have good quality practice facilities. He wanted to give that and guidance to the youngsters here. In 1997-98, Vaidya started a talent hunt in Nagpur. The objective was to ‘catch them young’.
 
 A massive drive - Prashant Vaidya Talent Search - was conducted and Vidarbha found good talent. However, the academy closed down after a year due to issues between Vaidya and the then VCA executive body. Vaidya got involved with his business thereafter and stayed away from VCA matters.
 
 In 2005, the then VCA president   was keen to have a Residential Academy. VCA had already purchased the land for its new stadium in Jamtha. It planned to convert the Civil Lines stadium into the academy.
 
 When the classy stadium came up in Jamtha in 2008, Manohar started preliminary work on the residential academy. Manohar and Vaidya had a discussion about it and both were on same page. When Manohar became the   president in 2008, he handed over the responsibility of the academy to Vaidya. It was the beginning of a new era for the Vidarbha cricket.
 
 Vaidya handled everything right from the construction to the appointment of coaches and support staff. He was given full freedom by Manohar to take decisions. Vaidya didn’t chase big names for coaches. He wanted those who could work on players’ skills without disturbing their natural game.
 
 Many associations were going after top foreign names but Vaidya opted for Neil D’Costa who was specialized in spotting talent and grooming kids.
 
 Vaidya’s former India teammate Subroto Bannerjee was also working with D’Costa in Australia. Bannerjee had specialized in bowling coaching, while Sulakshan Kulkarni was doing well with Mumbai Under-19 teams and is also known to have an ‘excellent cricketing brain’. Both were brought in.
 
 “It’s important to choose the right coaches. You need those who can fit in that role. Prashant did extremely well to pick the right candidates,” said Hirwani.
 
 The result was evident as Vidarbha teams started doing well within a year as they were getting good quality training facilities and proper guidance.
 
 However, in 2011, Vaidya surprisingly didn’t find a place in the VCA’s executive committee. Even though he was in the Cricket Development Committee, he wasn’t looking after the academy affairs.
 
 It was only when Vaidya became vice-president in 2016 after VCA adopted Lodha reforms, he revived the academy. Vaidya had been wanting to bring in Pandit for the last eight years but the Mumbai player-coach was contracted elsewhere.
 
 The day Mumbai Cricket Association released Pandit, Vaidya contacted him and offered the job. Pandit accepted and the rest is history.
 
