NEW DELHI: The Lokpal selection committee comprising Prime Minister   on Thursday decided to go ahead with the appointment of an ‘eminent jurist” on the panel in order to facilitate the process of selection of chairperson and eight members of the anti-corruption ombudsman. The decision was taken even as leader of   in   Mallikarjun  , who was to join the selection panel meeting as a ‘special invitee’, boycotted the deliberations.

 Thursday’s meeting was attended by the PM, Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan and Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra. Minister of state for   and personnel Jitendra Singh was also part of the deliberations. 
 
 According to a senior government functionary, the Lokpal selection committee will hold another meeting in the near future to finalise the eminent jurist and recommend the same to the President for appointment. Once the appointment is made, the full Lokpal panel — comprising the PM, Lok Sabha Speaker, Chief Justice of India and the eminent jurist — will hold its first meeting to authorise a search committee to prepare a panel of names to be considered for appointment as Lokpal chairperson and members. 
 
 The government’s decision to press ahead with the selection process even as the Lokpal & Lokayuktas Act is yet to be amended to include leader of the largest opposition party in Lok Sabha in the selection panel, is in accordance with the provisions of the Act passed by   in 2013 as well as an observation of the   in April 2017, a senior official said. Section 4(2) of the Act says “no appointment of a chairperson or a member shall be invalid merely by reason of any vacancy in the selection committee”. 
 
 An SC bench comprising Justices Ranjan Gogoi and Naveen Sinha had, while hearing a plea by NGO Common Cause, observed last year: “We are holding that it (Lokpal Act) is a workable piece of legislation and it is not justifiable to keep its appointment pending because of the absence of the leader of opposition.”
 
 “The government, by requesting Kharge to be a special invitee to the selection panel meeting, has gone out of its way to have the voice of opposition in the deliberations,” a functionary said while underlining that it was a Congress-led government that framed the Act but failed to provide for a scenario where there is no leader of the opposition.
 
 Government sources said there are other technical flaws in the Lokpal Act passed by UPA regime. “The term of Lokpal member-secretary has not been defined. Also, the Act is silent on the location of headquarters of Lokpal,” said an official.
 
 Sources said the government does not see a window for passage of the Lokpal & Lokayuktas (Amendment) Bill in the ongoing Budget session.
 
 
