She was born in Cannes, France, but didn’t want to spend all her life in the country. And from a very young age   was on the lookout for ways to travel the world. But little did she know that the key to it lies in the guitar she was trying to master since she was 9. The realisation however, changed her approach towards music. 

 “I started writing my lyrics in English. Everybody in my native Southern France kept asking me why don’t I write in French but I wanted to travel the world playing music and it made sense to write in English as everybody understands it,” says the lead act of the Hyleen Trio, who recently performed in Hyderabad. 
 
 Apparently, a majority of French believe that independent musicians aren’t good enough if they don’t sing in French. “For instance, Grammy-winning French electronic music duo   was rejected by all the major record labels in my country when they first came up as a band 
 singing in English. But once they made a mark internationally and bagged several major awards, the same record labels couldn’t stop raving about them. Everybody went like ‘Wow! These guys are French. This is what the French do’ and all that,” she says adding that she has heard similar stories from her counterparts in countries like Japan, where she recently performed as a part of her current tour. 
 
 “A decade ago, things were difficult for independent musicians as they were bound to recording companies’ clauses, but not anymore. Today, because of the boom in technology and Internet, any musician can do whatever he/she wants to record in a bedroom setup and reach fans beyond geographical boundaries,” says Hyleen who adopted a similar route to launch her debut album U&I in 2014.
 
 She is set to release her sophomore album B-Side this February in Germany, which she says will be her actual debut. “It’s my labour of love. B-Side is completely me. The name signifies that everybody in this world has a ‘B-Side’ to their personality,” she explains. After working for a year writing songs, Hyleen has done everything from, composing, recording to mixing on it by herself. 
 
 “A couple of years before starting work on the album, I was having hard time. I had broken all ties with my previous producer and was starting out all over again,” says Hyleen, who was visiting India for the second time. But during that time, she also found what changed everything around her for better — love. “I met   (Viccaro), our drummer, a few years ago in one of the music fests in Cannes. Back then we were more like ‘hi-bye’ acquaintances,” she was saying when Nicolas interrupted, “I knew who she was and saw her performance a couple of times before hanging out with her; we had common friends too. We jamed together a few times and were just getting to know each other then.” 
 
 Cupid struck soon after, says the musical couple. “In the beginning we thought we are not going to play together. As we thought it’s going to be hard for a couple to be on stage and deal professionally. But soon all our apprehensions subsided and we became bandmates,” Hyleen says. 
 Today, their on-stage relationship is strictly like that of a drummer and a band leader. “But trust me, she is a nightmare during jams,” quips Nicolas adding, “On a serious note, it’s wonderful to play with her because she is not just a singer, but also a musician who understands the nuances of composing and performance. 
 
 “It’s wonderful to work and tour together with your beloved. For me the experience is very uplifting to be with him on stage and play the same music,” confesses Hyleen. She adds that Nicolas’ inputs helped shaped B-Side the way she had figured it in her mind. “When I showed him the structures of the songs, he immediately suggested that we rope in a keyboard player and record the album live. And in came Julian (Boursin). 
 
 In the next couple of days, we figured things out and both Nicolas and   padded up the structures and B-Side was ready to roll. We recorded live in the studio to retain the essence of the songs, the way we wanted it,” she informs. 
 
 The songs in the album are composed on an array of subjects from love, death, prejudices when you meet someone new to life in general and loneliness. Calling her sound, an offshoot of soul, Hyleen says her pedigree in different musical disciplines shaped her sound. “I call it neo-soul with a tinge of funk,” says the Looking At hitmaker signing off. 
 
