Ludhiana: Department of Livestock Products Technology of Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, has transferred the process of development of health-oriented meat and egg products to M/S Food Sense, Mansa, Punjab. The technology has been transferred on multiple user basis. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) has been signed between GADVASU and above mentioned firm in the presence of A S Nanda, vice-chancellor. 

 Nanda applauded the efforts of scientists in developing a link with the entrepreneurs. He laid stress on industry-oriented research. He said there is exponential surge in the demand of health oriented meat products such as Omega-3 fatty acid enriched, low-calories, low cholesterol and high fiber meat and egg products among health conscious consumers. 
 
 Manish Kumar Chatli, head of the department of LPT, said while marketing of these products, the firms will mention a caption reading ‘Technology developed by GADVASU, Ludhiana’ on the package. GADVASU has already transferred 19 different technologies. Department of LPT has conducted research in pioneer areas of meat processing, quality control and value addition of meat and eggs. The pioneer work on extension of storage quality of livestock products using bio-active biodegradable packaging films and micro-encapsulation techniques has already been recognized at many forms. 
 
 The standardized technologies are ready for transfer for nutritious meat based biscuits and meat wadi with a protein content of 27-30% and has storage life of more than six months at room temperature condition. Dr J P S Gill, Director of Research, GADVASU and Dr Harish Verma, Director Extension Education congratulated the scientists and said this is a recognition of industry oriented applied research work carried out by GADVASU. They further asserted that GADVASU has many other technologies on animal health management, animal nutrition and many other aspects of animal husbandry, which can be useful for the farmers. Dr Chatli said department is providing help to the budding entrepreneurs and start up groups in all forms including training, in preparing framework and strategies for the quality assurance and marketing of meat and egg processing units. 
 
 He further further that shortly department is going to help training for the butchers/meat industry personnel on the hygienic, wholesome, clean meat production practices. The interested persons may contact HoD, LPT, GADVASU for further details.
 
 
