
  where a violent clash occurred between Bharatiya Janata Party and Samajwadi Party supporters following the declaration of SP candidate Naeemul Hasan’s victory in the   assembly constituency bypoll. The incident happened on Thursday evening after Hasan’s motorcade left the village. According to sources, swords were used and stone pelting and even firing occurred during the clash. A vehicle was also vandalised in the process. A case has been registered against 26 persons of both sides.
 
  The village has two factions, one each from the Sikh community and Jats. While the Sikhs supported the SP candidate, the Jats supported the BJP candidate. According to villagers, on Thursday evening youths of both communities confronted one another while bathing at a government tubewell. According to a complaint filed by members of the Jat community, some Sikh youths shouted slogans in support of Hasan. When Jats objected, the Sikh youths allegedly attacked them. This occurred soon after Hasan’s convoy left the village.
  
  According to a villager, Sukhram Singh, Sikh youths entered a Jat locality and attacked residents with sticks and swords. A youth,Prashant, was injured.
  
  The Sikhs have meanwhile alleged that Jats pelted them with stones and vandalized a vehicle parked near a place of worship. Some of the villagers left their homes soon after the clash. Police forces were rushed to the spot to control the situation. Additional superintendent of police (city) Dinesh Kumar also visited the village.
  
  Both the groups have filed complaints against each other. Police have filed a case against 11 members of the Jat community and 15 from the Sikh community under relevant sections of the IPC.
  
  In 2009, a clash had occurred between both factions, in which several houses had been burnt down.
  
  Haldaur station house officer Satendra Bhadana said, “The clash occurred between two groups over bathing at a tubewell. It should not be connected with any political event. On Friday both the groups held a discussion to sort out their disputes.”
