Chennai: Several extended areas under the Greater Chennai Corporation will get a revamp of the lighting infrastructure with a Rs 80 crore project getting an approval at a high-power committee meeting held last week.

 Eight extended zones – Thiruvottriyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Ambattur, Valsaravakkam, Alandur, Perungudi and Sholinganallur – will get revamped installation of 17,000 light poles and light fittings. The old fittings and poles set up under the erstwhile Panchayats will be replaced with galvanised iron (GI) poles and LED lamps across these eight zones.
 
 “We were waiting for government approval on the same, which has now been received. The tenders are likely to be floated next month. All the concrete poles will be replaced, and the sodium vapour lamps and tube lights will be replaced with LED lamps,” a corporation official told TOI. “The cabling will be changed to underground cabling as well.”
 
 The meeting that was convened last week was attended by officials from the municipal administration and water supply department, the finance secretary and the TUFIDCO chairman.
 
 Another official said the work would not take more than two months to replace the fittings across all these zones, once the tenders are given and work begins.
 
 The civic body is also waiting for an approval of a Rs 140 crore project for LED conversion of 70,000 street lamps across all the zones which remained hanging due to the non-approval of funds. As part of promoting renewable sources of energy, the civic body is awaiting approval of projects such as the installation of solar panels across all Corporation buildings in the city. Of the 2.78 lakh lamps across the city, 1.71 lakh are LED lamps, as per the civic body. This brings in a 45% reduction in the energy consumption.
 
 “Several lamps in my area have already been replaced with LED. It is happening at a good pace across several zones. Underground cabling will ensure fewer accidents due to electrocution, and LED lamps will ensure less power consumption and thus, savings money for the civic body. These moves will benefit residents across the city if implemented well,” said G Satish, a resident of Old Mahabalipuram Road.
 
 
