PUDUCHERRY: The   will seek to implead itself in the petition filed by chief minister’s parliamentary secretary K Lakshminarayanan before the Supreme Court challenging the   order upholding the nomination of three   loyalists as MLAs.

 Tabling a resolution to this effect in the 30-member-strong Puducherry   on Monday, chief minister V   urged the speaker V Vaithilingam to initiate efforts to implead the government in the petition before the Supreme Court and depute the legislative assembly secretary (A Vincent Rayar) to represent the government. 
 
 He said the recommendations and observations made by the high court proved that the Union home ministry nominated the MLAs unilaterally without adhering to any guidelines. He said the actions of three people claiming to be the members nominated to the legislative assembly despite speaker’s refusal to recognize it were against the dignity and decorum of the House besides infringing on the privileges of the elected members. Their actions will lead to a rift between the legislative assembly and judiciary, he said.
 
 Lakshminarayanan said the Supreme Court is likely to hear next week his petition seeking an interim stay on high court’s order and subsequently nullifying the nomination of the three BJP loyalists. While the ruling   and its allies, including DMK have 18 members in the House, the opposition AINRC has eight members and   four.
 
 The legislative assembly also passed a resolution urging the Union government to constitute the Cauvery water management board as per the direction of the Supreme Court to share water among the states of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala and the Union territory of Puducherry.
 
 Narayanasamy presented a vote on account for Rs 2,466.66 crore to meet the expenditure of the territory for the first four months of the next financial year. 
 
 Earlier, the opposition AIADMK boycotted the lt governor Kiran Bedi’s customary address to register their protest against the Congress government and Bedi for failing to take concrete steps in pressurizing the Union government to constitute the Cauvery water management board. 
 
 AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan said the party submitted memorandums to the lt governor and speaker 10-days ago urging them to convene a special session of the assembly to discuss several burning issues including the constitution of the board. The two, however, failed to take any concrete steps and the AIADMK party decided to boycott Bedi’s address, said Anbalagan.
 
 AINRC MLAs led by party founder-leader N Rangasamy walked out to register their protest against the ruling Congress on its failure on various fronts.
 
 
