HYDERABAD: The Telangana government will write to the ministry of defence (MoD) in a couple of days to keep the   open for civilians beyond May 31, the deadline set by the   (LMA) to close the road for lakhs of commuters.

 
 Chief secretary SK Joshi will send the missive to the MoD, seeking extension of the deadline — 12 days away — so that alternative roads are constructed for the benefit of commuters. The CS chaired a high-level meeting — second such meeting in the last one month — at secretariat on Saturday to discuss the issue. The first meeting was held on April 20.
 
 
  
 
 Apart from the Gough Road closure issue, transfer of defence land for construction of two alternative roads, proposals of flyovers/elevated corridors at   and expenditure to be incurred were also discussed. The state government is planning to hand over a piece of land to LMA in lieu of the defence land taken for laying the alternative roads. The flyovers/ elevated corridors will come up on two alternative roads —Safilguda railway gate-Entrenchment Road and   level crossing-RK Puram road over bridge (ROB).
 
 “When the LMA asked the state government to bear the cost on compound walls towering a great height to provide shield to the defence establishments, fencing and watch towers, the government authorities immediately agreed to bear the expenditure,” sources told TOI.
 
 Another contentious issue of paying the market rate of 33-acre defence land, which will be required to lay two alternative roads, had also come up for discussion. The government said it won’t be in a position to pay Rs 400 crore to LMA on account of taking over 33 acres. “The state may approach the MoD seeking the 33-acre defence land for free and in lieu of it, it would bear the expenditure on compound walls, watch towers and fencing,” the sources added.
 
 The   has made a rough estimate on the two alternative roads, which is said to cost Rs 160 crore.
 
 While the LMA is keen to close the Gough Road from June 1 (as per the High Court orders), the government is knocking the MoD’s door to keep it open till alternative roads are laid. “The ball is in the court of MoD,” a senior GHMC official said.
 
 
