MUMBAI: As temperatures in the city rise to the mid-thirties, the   will bring relief at Friday’s festival of  .

 ‘Holika dahan’ (lighting of the holy bonfire) will be performed on Thursday night. According to Kalnirnay almanac, the mahurat begins 7.37pm. March 2 is ‘Dhulivandan’ which is the full moon day of Holi. It marks the onset of the month of Chaitra. Try as they might, children are unable to keep away from the fancy alluring toys that are making the festival so enjoyable this year. Across Crawford Market, Andheri and Malad a fresh array of attractive and inexpensive water cannons is drawing them like bees to honey. All are manufactured in China.
 
 
 “Pichkaris shaped like banjos and guitars are very popular. We have different sizes ranging from half-litre to 2 litres to suit children of all age groups. Another hot selling item is the cluster of 100 balloons in which you can fill water from one tap all at once. As they fill, the balloons seal on their own and begin to fall off the grid,” said a shopkeeper in Crawford Market. The pichkaris cost Rs 150-450 apiece while the balloon cluster comes for a cheap Rs 125.
 
 Sweets are an indispensable part of Indian celebrations. The Sindhi community sees Holi as an important day on the festival calendar. This year residents of the Sindhi heartland of Khar are having to shell out at exorbitant Rs 800 per kg for ‘gear’, which is simply a large jalebi prepared from maida and sugar syrup. At Jhama at Chembur, the sweetmeat costs Rs 520 per kg while Sweet Palace in Lokhandwala Complex offers delectable ‘gear’ for Rs 500. Here, the Gujarati favourite fafda-jalebi comes for Rs 340 per kilo. The crescent shaped ‘gujiya’ with fresh mawa filling is priced Rs 460 per kg while the same sweet costs Rs 600 at Tewari Bros in Charni Road. Tewari’s’ serving of 300 ml ‘thandai’ is priced Rs 70 this season.
 
 You can be jailed for illegally axing trees, warns BMC
 Taking cognisance of the cutting of trees for making traditional bonfires for Holi, the civic body has warned people against doing so, saying it is illegal and could even attract a jail term.
 
 Traditionally, during the ‘Holika dahan’ on the festival, wood is burnt in a symbolic bonfire to signify good defeating evil.
 
 Under the provisions of the Maharashtra Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 1975, those found guilty of cutting trees and branches without authorization from the tree authority, can be sentenced to imprisonment for a week to a year, the   (BMC) said in a release.
 
 A fine of Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000 can also be imposed, said an official.
 
 The BMC said it has noticed that trees and its branches are cut by revellers for making bonfires during the festival of colours.
 
 Thus, the civic body has asked its tree authority to keep a strict watch on those cutting trees in the metropolis during the Holi festival, the release said. 
 
