MUMBAI: State Bank of India ( ) has said that the spike in   in circulation to near pre-demonetisation levels is possibly driven by political parties hoarding   ahead of  . Historically, cash usage picks up ahead of   across governments. The surge in currency is slowing down deposit growth and pushing up interest rates in money markets.

 The issue of cash with the public going up due to elections was first officially acknowledged by former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan in April 2016. “Around election time, cash with the public does normally increase... You can guess as to reasons why, we can also guess,” Rajan had said. He said that the central bank had witnessed that currency demand goes up not just in the states going for elections, but in the adjoining areas as well.
 
 SBI chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh said, the currency in circulation has increased rapidly in the past two months. On a monthly basis, growth has been 0.45 lakh crore and 0.51 lakh crore in January and February respectively, compared to an average of 0.1 lakh crore and 0.2 lakh crore respectively in these two months in previous years. “Given that many state elections are scheduled for 2018, growth in currency in circulation is likely to remain robust. This, in turn, would put pressure on bank deposits to expand as it represents a leakage from the banking system,” said Ghosh.
 
  
  
 
 For banks, the negative fallout of the increase in currency is that deposit growth has been slowing down following an initial spike after demonetisation. The highest rate of growth in bank deposits since   was 15.6% in November 2017. This dropped to 5.9% for the fortnight ended February 16, 2018.
 
 The shortage of deposits is resulting in banks shying away from buying government bonds, which in turn is reducing bond prices and pushing up yields. According to Ghosh, bond yields in India have jumped close to three times than what it rose in the US (for the eight-month period ended March), implying that the increase in bond yields in India is also because of other factors apart from tightening of global yields.
 
 According to a report by Credit Suisse Group, the increase in bond yields can knock off Rs 20,000 crore from the bottom lines of banks. This is because banks have to make provisions for the shrinking value of bonds out of their earnings. An increase in bond yields results in bond prices coming down.
 
 
