AHMEDABAD: The friendship between Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu soared to new heights as the two leaders bonded while flying kites in Ahmedabad on Wednesday. The two paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi at the   and later stressed the importance of innovation and technology in cementing the ties between the two countries.

 Netanyahu and Modi on Wednesday dedicated to India the sprawling facility of iCREATE (Center for Excellence in Technology and Enterprise) in Bavla near Ahmedabad.
 
 Addressing Modi as his “dear, dear friend” at a function on the iCREATE campus, Netanyahu, said, “After
 
 Indian Prime Minister’s visit to Israel, my visit to India marks a new era of co-operation. One of the most important areas that I am most excited about is technology.” He said transformative power of technology and young people is the future. He said that both he and Modi are young in their thinking and are optimistic about the future.
 
 “PM Modi is changing India by his vision and leadership. He is revolutionizing India and making the country a world power through the power of innovations,” he said. “I want young Indians to know that Israel wants partnerships in fields such as technology, agriculture, and life sciences.” Netanyahu encouraged young innovators to work together for both the countries.
 
 Talking about the historical ties between India and Israel, he said, “A hundred years ago, some Indian soldiers who fought to liberate the city of Haifa were Gujaratis. Thank you Gujarat.”
 
 For his part, Modi praised Israel for impressing the world with its technology and creativity. Modi called Netanyahu his "dear friend". “Innovators could benefit from Israel’s partnerships in areas which are linked to the necessities of India," Modi said.
 
 
 
 Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu gifted his Indian counterpart amobile water-treatment plant. The vehicle, the Gal-Mobile water desalinization and purification jeep, was dedicated to the people of Suigam village in Banaskantha at the iCREATE function. 
 
 
 
 Thirty-six winners of   Global Innovation Challenge 2017 were felicitated by the two PMs at iCREATE event. Innovators from both countries were given challenges in categories of agriculture, water and healthcare.
 
 
 
 
 Water conservation, agriculture, the preservation of agricultural produce, food processing, and farming in desert-like regions and in areas with little water, and cyber security are some of the key areas in which India and Israel could forge partnerships, ” Modi said Innovation will play a key role in bringing the people of India and Israel closer to each other, Modi said. “There is a huge potential for innovations in health and cleanliness initiatives.” He said youth of India have energy and enthusiasm and need encouragement and institutional support.
 
 Modi said that the government is working to make an innovation-friendly system. He said intent can generate ideas; ideas lead to innovation; and innovation will create a New India.
 
 Upon their arrival on Wednesday morning, the two leaders participated in a 7-km road show in a closed vehicle with over 7,000 cops guarding the route. Thirty-five dance troupes, lined up from the airport to Gandhi Ashram, gave glimpses of India's culture.
 
 At the Sabarmati Ashram, Modi gave a guided tour to Netanyahu and his wife, Sara. The Netanyahus tried their hand at the spinning wheel. Later, as a tribute to the Uttarayan kite-flying festival which is celebrated with much fervour in Gujarat, Modi and Netanyahu flew kites from the ashram premises.
 
 In the last leg of the tour, Modi and Netanyahu interacted with farmers at the Centre of Excellence in Vegetables in Vadrad village in Prantij, Sabarkantha, where farmers are trained in the latest farm practices of Israel.
 
 "We are working to double farmer incomes by 2022," Modi said. "Despite limited resources, if we use modern, science-based technology like those perfected by the Israelis, farmers can prosper."
 
 Modi said that 25 of the 28 planned centers of excellence in the agriculture sector across India have been established; Gujarat has three of them.
 
 
 
