CHANDIGARH: Transport department of the Chandigarh administration on Thursday increased the bus fares of   ( ) for all categories and segments. Besides the general category, charges of monthly passes, fares for employees have also been increased.

 Bus fare for Tricity has been increased kilometre wise. For non-AC category, passengers will now have to pay Rs 10 for first five kilometres and Rs 15 and 20 for five to ten and above 10 kilometres respectively. Earlier these charges were Rs 5, 10 and 15 respectively. Earlier passengers was paying Rs 5 for first three kilometres. Likewise, for AC buses, now passengers will have to pay Rs 15, Rs 20 and Rs 25 instead of earlier charges of rupees 10, 15 and 20 respectively. 
 
 Monthly passes for state’s, Central government’s, government banks’ including outsourced and contractual employees will be available for Rs 300 for non-AC and Rs 800 for AC buses. 
 
 There will be a discount of 33% for   passengers in non-AC buses on showing BPL card issued by Chandigarh administration. Significantly, the charges for students will remain Rs 100 for monthly passes, but it will only be applicable from their destination to educational institute and not for travelling to any other part of the city. If a student wants monthly pass for entire city, he or she will have to pay Rs 300 per month. 
 
 Significantly, the department has given major relief to children below 6 years of age, war widows, deaf and dumb, HIV-Aids and differently-abled persons, children with special needs, blind persons, thallassemic children along with one attendant by their side by giving them free travelling facilities for both AC/ Non- AC buses for local as well as long routes. They would be required to show their valid identity card issued by the competent authority of Chandigarh administration. 
 
 A passenger can get one month’s pass from April 7, 2018 till May 6, 2018. Monthly bus pass can be availed for any number of months starting from the date of issuance of the bus pass. Cost of half ticket will be charged by converting it to a round figure. 
 
 There will be no discount on daily pass for any category of person as daily pass is already at discounted rates. A passenger cannot avail multiple discounts if he or she is entitled to more than one discount. He or she can avail one discount as per his or her preference. 
 
 
