BENGALURU: A seven-year-old boy from  , suffering from cough,   for months on end was advised by his physician to undergo an  . The parents, who had been thinking that exposure to   and increasing viral infections could be the reasons for their son’s illness, were in for a shock when the test revealed the culprit lay indoors — the boy was found allergic to  .

 Bengaluru’s ambient air may be notorious for its pestilential quality but house dust mites seem to be worse. Nearly 75% of patients with respiratory illnesses are allergic to the microorganisms in houses, a recent study by Bengaluru’s allergy physicians has revealed. The study looked into the findings of allergy tests of 318 patients at Neuberg Anand Diagnostic Laboratory during January-December 2017.
 
 “Patients are referred to the lab only when repeated episodes of allergy attacks are noticed and when symptomatic treatment fails. Test results reflect the allergy trends in the city. While allergy is generally seasonal, we looked at patients who suffer from allergic rhinitis and chronic cough irrespective of the season,” said Dr Samrat Bordoloi, pathologist and in-charge of division of immunopathology, Neuberg Anand Diagnostic Lab, who spearheaded the study.
 
 “House dust mite remains the main respiratory allergen contributing to illness of most patients. The next biggest culprit (20%) is pollen contributed mostly by the parthenium weed, and three other plants including Ricinus communis known as castor oil plant,” said Dr Gayathri Pandit, consultant ENT surgeon and allergy specialist from Samarth ENT and Allergy Centre. 
 
 According to Dr Pandit, if a patient has frequent episodes of running nose, sneezing, itchy eyes or recurrent cough, and has a family history of allergic disorders, he/she must visit an allergy specialist.
 
 ‘Hygiene consciousness has killed immunity’
 
 Of the 318 people who underwent the allergy test, 111 were between 0 to 20 years, termed by specialists as the most vulnerable age group. “Hygiene consciousness has increased over the years and hence children are not much exposed to outdoor allergens like pollen. But they are more prone to house dust allergen as their immune system overreacts due to lack of exposure to natural allergens in the environment. The hypothesis is that the high standards of living have killed immunity to allergens,” explained Dr Samrat. 
 
 Boxes: Cockroach and the cure 
 
 The study found that cockroach allergens were to blame in around 10% of the cases, especially among people from densely populated areas. “It’s a double-edged sword to deal with cockroaches as both the pest and the pesticide used to prevent them can be harmful to those vulnerable to allergies,” said Dr Samrat Bordoloi.
 
 BOX: How to outsmart them
 
 *House dust mites present on carpets and curtains fly around during dusting. Those vulnerable should stay away at such a time
 
 *Dust accumulated on fans and furniture must be cleared regularly
 
 *Use dust-free linen material for carpets
 
 *Be cautious while using pesticide-control sprays at home
 
 
