BEIJING:   and admirers of an ayurvedic practitioner and educator, Deepak  , are holding mourning meetings in Chinese cities, Beijing and Guangzhou to remember his recent death in Karnal. A meeting took place in Guangzhou on Saturday and another one will be held in Beijing on Sunday. His students in Taipei have also planned to hold a meeting in his memory.

 Deepak Dudhmunde, the educator, had emerged as one of the most popular Indians in China with students and spread across several cities of Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Dudhmunde died on January 9 after a massive heart attack at an early age of 52.
 
 He made a mark in China by holding self-healing courses, and lectured in conferences and universities about the Indian healing system of ‘chakra’, sound and flower perfume therapies across 10 Chinese cities over the past 10 years. He also lectured on two occasions at the   in Beijing, the last occasion being in May last year.
 
  
  
 
 “He was the first doctor to bring traditional Indian medicine, philosophy and knowledge to the Chinese audience” Mo Xiaokang, his businessman friend in Beijing said adding, “He said the cultures of China and India were like branches of the same tree, and we could relate to that”.
 
 Dudhmunde’s work involved a range of innovations that include creating sound systems and identifying scents that help heal problems in different organs and deal with negative emotions. He touched the lives of a large number of patients and students in Mainland China, Hong Kong and Taiwan who narrate tales about how they were able to overcome long-standing and deep-seated health problems under his guidance.
 
 His ayurvedic doctor wife, Tripti Deepak Dudhmande and son, Akash, are determined to carry forward the many activities launched by Dudhmunde. “We will continue his mission, Tripti Deepak Dudhmande said adding “He believed that people are endowed by nature with the ability to health themselves by simple measures like ‘mudra’ done by manipulating the fingers of the hand, using perfumes and sound. There is no need to overdose ourselves with medicines unless it is extremely necessary.”
 
 Dudhmunde build a network of friends among doctors practicing   (TCM) and spoke in different conferences on similarities between the two systems, on issues like anti-aging, the Chakra system and taking a holistic view of life and health.
 
 “He made us feel like he is one among us. His students were told me they never felt more relaxed and happy than anyone else. He had a lot more to contribute,”  , his assistant, said.
 
 Students narrate numerous tales about his sense of humor and his ability to encourage people to relax and connect with their inner needs and hidden pain as a means for self-healing.
 
 
