PUNE: Barley 20 days after India adopted its Constitution, the Pune Municipal Corporation ( ) formally came into being on February 15, 1950. The year marked new beginnings for both the nation and the city. 

 Pune’s post-independence municipal history was not just a new government asserting itself by forming new bodies and re-naming old ones. It is a history of the earliest attempts at comprehensive town planning in India, a litany of great men and women who became elected members, instances of political violence, and also how the two Cantonments flanking the city remained separate, and continue to remain so.
 
 Another part of the legacy has been the municipal offices. The PMC continued to function out of the Reay Market, now Mahatma Phule Mandai, till 1966, before the current Shivajinagar premises were built. It was on par with any other Indian city, with the municipal office being located near or in the city’s largest market.
 
 The Poona Municipality was established in 1858, and its governance was limited, in stature, area, and actual powers. Going by the records, its initial governance was limited to the 15 Peths which formed the core of the city, dominated mainly by the higher castes, living intensively in a tight area, and cut through by a number of nullahs.
 
 The two Cantonments__ Pune and Khadki__ remained separate in administration as well as intents and purposes, and were set up near four decades prior to any form of municipal administration for the rest of the city.
 
 Space to build and grow in the city limits was extremely limited__ the wadas were built almost upon each other, and the arterial roads were never wide enough. Consequently, the two newer peths were laid out in the old city limits__   and Ganj Peth__ now Mahatma Phule Peth. They seemed to correct several deficiencies.
  
  
 But after the   was set up in the early 1880s to grow areas beyond the Mutha River in the east and the parts north of the Mula River, the growth of the city was almost exponential, and so was the quality of life.
 
 Searching through their histories, the timeline is filled with colourful debates, elections, albeit on a scale infinitely less than today’s.
 
 Delving into the TOI archives__ the earliest news clip regarding the Pune municipal affairs dates back to an 1883 election__ politicking in the municipalities started off slowly. The list of candidates in the city municipality point to domination by the the upper castes of the Peth areas, and a handful of candidates were from Bohra and Tamil communities, who settled in the city and came to be rich businessmen.
 
 Some candidates are illustrious. A 1925 article describes a “comedy of errors” at the City Municipality premises, when the veteran reformist and municipality president NC Kelkar handed in his resignation, all described as a move by his “Swarajist” faction of the   to “avoid defeat”.
 
 In the 1928 suburban municipality elections, the list of candidates is indicative of a new migration to the city. The president used to be a member of the Hyderabadi royal family, who was generally elected unopposed from the “Mahomedan ward”. Nearly half of the candidates turned out to be Parsis, Bohras, Gujaratis, retired army men, and even Goan Catholics, who settled in large numbers around Bund Garden, Yerawada, and the area then known as Civil Lines.
 
 In another first for Pune, the suburban area, richer and more expansive, implemented the first town planning initiatives, according to the Bombay Town Planning Act of 1915.
 
 The rich wanted to live the high life, and suburban Pune started to resemble the grid-like structure of the Pune Cantonment. But the actual Cantonments never got to be a part of the city.
 
 According to records, since 1933, the Bombay Presidency tried to combine four authorities- the City and Suburban municipalities, and the Khadki and Pune Cantonments- into one municipal corporation.
 
 The military authorities, however, would have none of that, as they were scared that frequent occurrences of plague in the city areas would affect soldiers. World War II was the reason another similar proposal in 1939 was binned.
 
 Other historians, however, contend that no Cantonments were ever part of any such plans.“There was a nagarpalika for the city areas, and then a separate municipality was there for the new suburbs. As far as I know, there was never any proposal to make the Cantonments a part of the unified Municipal Corporation,” Mandar Lawate, a city-based history scholar, said.
 
 A Bombay state act in 1949, and a recommendation by a committee led by the administrator MD  , finally made the city have municipal corporation, with only the city and suburban municipality as its constituents.
 
 Sixty-eight years ago, the city’s population was just a little under 4.8 lakh. It is now nearly eight times that number.
 
 
