Guntur: Tension prevailed in the district on Wednesday as the police curbed the movement of Left party leaders, who have given a call for ‘Chalo Gottipadu’ agitation. 

 There was a complete lockdown in   village, and no non-locals were allowed entry. Heavy bandobast was seen at several crossings en route Gottipadu to prevent agitating leaders from entering it. 
 
 The arrests of CPM, CPI and Dalit leaders triggered angry reaction from local Dalits, who staged a dharna in the village, demanding immediate release of protesters. Dalit women staged a rasta roko and shouted slogans against the police. 
 
 Bhagyamma, a Dalit woman who is said to be leading the movement against upper-caste landlords, was kept under house arrest. The detention of elderly Bhagyamma prompted local Dalits to vent their ire against the police. “Instead of acting against those violating the law by enforcing social boycott, the police imposed restrictions on the victims from raising their voice. We will teach a fitting lesson to the government,” vowed a Dalit leader from the village. 
 
 Although, the police succeeded in foiling the Chalo Gottipadu march, the situation continues to remain   because of due to the large-scale arrests of protesters.
 
 About 150-200 leaders and activists who attempted to enter Gottipadu have been arrested kept at different police stations. AIDWA state secretary D Ramadevi and her associates were arrested and kept in Tadikonda police station while coming from Vijayawada. CPM district secretary Pasam Ramarao, state secretariat member V Krishnaiah, and others were detained in Guntur. 
 
 Students Federation of India leader Bhargav was arrested in Ponnur, while trying to go to Gottipadu in an APSRTC bus. CPM district leaders Jamalaiah, Kakumanu Apparao, Nageswara Rao were detained near Gottipadu village. 
 
 Social activist Y Koteswara Rao, Gottipadu Dalit victims committee chairman and bar association former president G Santha Kumar were arrested in Guntur. CPM state secretary P Madhu was under detention for over 24 hours in Tadepalle police station. The police kept a watch on the residences and offices of Left leaders. Upon information of the arrest of Left leaders, APCC deputed a delegation from Vijayawada to check the situation. The police arrested the Congress leaders headed by state SC cell president, Korivi Vinay Kumar, near Mangalagiri. 
 
 
