NOIDA: Students from Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad bagged the top three ranks in the Dehradun region as the Class XII results of   were declared on Saturday. 

 In fact, seven of the nine all-India toppers in the first three positions are from Dehradun region. 
 
 The Dehradun region comprises 28 districts of Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh including Badaun, Baghpat, Bijnor, Bulandshahr, Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Hapur, J P Nagar/Amroha, Meerut, Moradabad, Muzaffarnagar, Rampur, Saharanpur, Sambhal and Shamli.
 
 Out of the 86 students who have bagged the top 10 positions in the region, 71 are from from the schools of Noida or Ghaziabad.
 
 Out of these 71 students, 54 are girls while the rest are boys. While girls have clearly outshined the boys, the toppers do not wish to equate this with gender.
 
 “It is a good thing but it is all about a year. The result may change next year and we might have boys outshining girls,” said Supriya Kaushik of Cambridge School, Noida who has shared the third position with six others.
 
 While Step By Step girl   has emerged as the all-India topper with 499 marks, Anoushka Chandra of Seth Anandram Jaipuria School, Vasundhara has emerged as the second all-India rank holder from Ghaziabad with 498 marks.
 
 The third rank at all-India level is held by seven students, out of whom five are from the Dehradun region. Three of these five students are from Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad.
 
 Supriya Kaushik of Cambridge Noida, Nakul Gupta of DPS   and Kshitij Anand of Seth Anandram Jaipuria School, Vasundhara have shared the third position with four others.
 
 However, when it comes to pass percentage, out of the total 28 districts in the region, Gautam Budh Nagar is on the ninth position with an overall pass percentage of 81.04%. Ghaziabad has registered a pass percentage of 76.03%. Keeping with the national trend, the pass percentage in the Dehradun region has improved by almost 2% with the region registering a pass percentage of 75.58%, up from the 73.96% last year. At the national level, the pass percentage—83.01%—has increased by almost 1% from last year’s 82.02%. Dehradun region is at the seventh spot in terms of pass percentage among all the ten regions.
 
 Kendriya Vidyalayas and Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas have outshined the government-aided, private and government schools, registering a pass percentage of 98.25 % and 97.64 % respectively.
 
 
