CHANDIGARH: The tie-up between   and book shops might have ended on the paper but it doesn’t seem to have ended otherwise because the books of some schools are still available only in particular shops. Unlike last year, parents this time are going to certain shops to look for books to save time and harassment. 

 Parents, who are busy preparing for their ward’s new academic session are of the view that the problem is not in buying books from a particular shop, but buying the same at inflated rates. 
 
 Nitin Goyal, president of   said, “Parents are being looted this year again. Schools have prescribed exclusive sets of books, which are available only in selected shops. While some schools publish their own books, others do the same under a fake publisher’s name. All this is being done to create a monopoly to sell these books at exorbitant rates. The schools have also delayed the announcement of prescribed textbooks, many of which have been changed this year, just to make sure that those are not available in the open market. Despite having the power under the Punjab Education Code to prescribe a uniform list of textbooks for all schools, the Director School Education has chosen to give a free hand to the private schools to fleece the parents.”
 
 Gurpreet Singh, a parent shared, “When you are out in the market, you end up getting the required textbook only from one particular shop, which has the complete set of books ready.”
 
 Yogesh Kumar, another parent who bought two sets for Class I and V, said, “We tried looking for the books in Mohali but did not get the books there. Hence, we had to return to the shop which is being prescribed by the school since the past several years.”
 
 According to book  , prices of set of books have gone down by almost Rs 600-800 this year as the same have been cut down by publishers by 10% to 20%. 
 
 This, they say, comes ahead of Centre’s upcoming policy to rationalize the prices of textbooks and control the surging prices. Shopkeepers also shared that this year many private schools have cut down on the total number of books being prescribed for students. However, parents still find buying books to be an extremely   affair as a set of books for even a Class I student is costing them Rs 4000.
 
 Rakesh Puri, from a book store in Sector 22, said, “There is 20 % to 25% drop in prices of textbooks. Government is going to fix the prices, so publishers are already preparing themselves. As a result, the parents are benefiting by Rs 800 to Rs 1000.”
 
 Vikas from Manchanda Bookstore said, “Many schools have also lowered the numbers of books prescribed by them and then there is a drop in rates of books. Reference books are not being prescribed. So the overall prices of books are down.”
 
 Talking to TOI District Education officer Anujit Kaur said, “Schools have been allowed to open small shops by CBSE but they cannot force parents to buy from there only or from a particular shop. An advisory in this regard has already been issued by the department last year.”
 
 
