MUMBAI: The city’s premier institutes are hoping to benefit from the massive outlay of funding announced for research and related infrastructure in the   on Thursday.

 Union finance minister Arun Jaitley announced a total investment of Rs 1 lakh crore in the next four years towards a major initiative, RISE – Revitalising infrastructure and Systems in Education. But educationists are seeking more clarity on the initiative’s beneficiaries.
 
 “There is a lack of clarity on whether Rs 1 lakh crore set aside for infrastructure will be dedicated only for government institutes or it will benefit the private sector too,” said Rajan Saxena, vice-chancellor, NMIMS deemed-to-be-university. “We will have to wait for the finer print of the budget document. Hopefully, it should be a level-playing field for all. The government should allow every university – government or private – to become world-class,” said Saxena. 
 
 He said that considering its the last NDA government’s budget before the general elections, the allocation has been hugely disappointing. “We expected it to be much more,” he said. Though the government has acknowledged the need for investment in research, the allocation for Department of Science and Technology was not substantial. The government has also not considered waiving off GST on several education-related services that has been in demand for some time, added Saxena.
 
 IIT-Bombay director Devang   said the institute was likely to benefit from huge funding set aside for infrastructure. “Students from premier institutes like ours will also benefit from fellowships announced for pursuing PhD at IITs,” said Khakhar. The PM research fellowship aims to address the shortage of faculty in premier institutes too.
 
 Former vice-chancellor of Mumbai University, Rajan Welukar, said the budget outlay for education should have ideally been 6% of the total, which was not achieved even this year. “The government should have also invested in teacher training institutes,” he added.
 
