New Delhi: Last year, there was a heavy influx of synthetic   into the capital. But a more worrying trend, police say, is the involvement of college students and the return of   drugs like  .

 In the last year and a half, police seized over 200 LSD blotters. But busting LSD modules is difficult as it doesn’t involve organised syndicates operating from across the border—the primary focus of investigators. The modules behind LSD smuggling are suspected to be operating out of Russia and Germany, police said. 
 
 After a lull of several years, LSD had made headlines in the capital in 2013 after NRI named Anmol Sarna was murdered in Kalkaji. That had led to the seizure of 1,200 blotters from a Dutch national in 2014. In the next two years, police action resulted in minimum sale of the drug. In 2017, the use of the drug spiked again.
 
 LSD, also known as ‘acid’, used to be a rage till the late 1990s. But with the advent of chemicals like ecstasy, cocaine, heroin and meth, the trend of LSD use waned after 2000. 
 
 “Synthetic drugs that were more addictive made youths get over LSD, which itself got restricted to a class of spiritual seekers and available largerly in places like Goa and Kasol. Of late, it’s been learnt that the youngsters are returning to LSD for several reasons, including the fact that it’s not addictive,” a policeman said. 
 
 Another reason for its return to popularity is the price—Rs 1,500-2,000 for a blotter. An ‘acid trip’ lasts up to 12 hours depending on the strength of the blotter that’s measured in micrograms. The most powerful of it is learnt to be of 1,200 micrograms. But the ones available in the market these days is 250-400 micrograms. 
 
 Synthetic drugs like pseudoephedrine and Meow Meow are the other favourites. Students of Delhi colleges are found more involved in the peddling of these drugs. But recently, students of various universities were caught for trading in LSD and hashish. They came from affluent families, with the father of one of them being an under-secretary rank bureaucrat. 
 
 Police say they mostly refrain from targeting the end users as they want to catch the big fish. 
 
 
