NAGPUR: Assistant RTOs from across the state are all set to lodge protest with the transport commissioner against the   government’s general administration department that has designated ARTOs as class II officers while motor vehicle inspectors (MVIs), which is a junior post, are in the class I grade in the transport department. 

 The ARTOs will be meeting in   on January 7 to discuss future course of action. 
 
 Prior to 2008, ARTOs were on a higher post than MVI, but later the GAD upgraded the post of MVI to class I officer. TOI had reported about this in the past. 
 
 During their proposed meet in Aurangabad, 86 ARTOs from across the state will prepare a memorandum of demands like upgrading their post, enlisting their job responsibilities etc. “We will submit the memorandum to transport commissioner Manoj Saunik,” they said. 
 
 A section of ARTOs said on the condition of anonymity that MVIs work under them. “Besides RTOs and deputy RTOs, we are the supervisory authority of MVIs who lead the department’s enforcement drives,” they claimed and cited the example of affidavits being submitted in the high court by the transport commissioner’s office citing ARTOs as supervisory post. 
 
 The pay of an MVI is Rs4,500 per month while that of an ARTO is Rs4,600. “Both orders contradict each other,” an ARTO stated in a letter submitted to the transport commissioner’s office.
 
 It was also mentioned that 80% MVIs had refused promotions as ARTOs. Sources added the post of MVI was more powerful and offered a lot more opportunities than that of ARTO which is more administrative in nature.
 
 They also pointed out that the recruitment process for an ARTO is being done through the   test. Another criteria for the post is that the candidate must be a graduate, preferably a bachelor of engineering or BSc in physics and chemistry. 
 
 On the other hand, the education qualification for MVI is diploma holder, apart from graduation. The ARTOs claimed that MVIs are even being allotted upgraded accommodations than them. 
 
 
