Pratyush Raj & Diganta Guha

 Chandigarh: If Minerva Punjab FC perform well on the field on Thursday, the   Trophy will be theirs. But before their must-win match against Churchill Brothers, they have kicked up a row off the field. The table toppers have accused rivals East Bengal of trying to disrupt their title chances through “approach” and “inappropriate behaviour”.
 
 The club toppers have sent a written complaint to the All India Football Federation (AIFF), levelling a string of accusations. The first one is that East Bengal official Alvito D’Cunha, a former footballer, called up Chennai City FC coach V Soundararajan, team officials and players and “promised Rs 10 lakh as award if they beat Minerva to brighten up East Bengal’s chances” in the title race. Minerva had beaten Chennai City FC in that match last week.
 
 Heena Bajaj, co-owner of Minerva Punjab FC, also accused East Bengal goalkeeping coach Abdul Azim Siddique of calling up Minerva head coach Khogen Singh in a bid to “unsettle” him before the match. According to the letter, Khogen was allegedly told that Minerva had already hired Aizawl FC coach Santosh Kashyap for the next season and he had no future left in Minerva. “Siddiqui told Khogen that he may have a future in East Bengal next season if he played his cards right,” Bajaj alleged. Bajaj said, “East Bengal are bent on dismantling our unit before our crucial match. We have filed a written complaint with AIFF.”
 
 East Bengal officials have vehemently refuted the allegations. Speaking to TOI from Kolkata, Subir Ganguly, a member of the executive committee of the club, said, “This is in extremely bad taste. How can one make such accusations without valid evidence? Is there any recording? Let them put facts on the table. You cannot randomly cast a slur on a club like East Bengal.”
 
 East Bengal too have a shot at winning the trophy that is if they beat Neroca FC. But they will have to rely on both Minerva and Mohun Bagan, who will play against Gokum Kerala, to lose their games.
 
 AIFF said it was probing the matter. AIFF vice-president Subrata Dutta said this was not the first time Minerva had levelled such allegations. “They have to be thoroughly investigated. Our integrity officer will start the probe and it is only after we receive his report, further action will be taken,” he said.
 
 East Bengal, on the other hand, too are waiting for the report of the AIFF integrity officer. “We will have a meeting of our executive committee where the matter will be discussed. We will decide on the future course of action later. But as an official of the club, I condemn such cheap tactics for cheap publicity.”
 
 Reacting to AIFF’s stance, Bajaj said, “AIFF is looking after the matter and they have promised us that they would do a thorough investigation and take necessary action.”
 
 The CHARGES
 
 East Bengal official Alvito D’Cunha called up Chennai City FC coach V Soundararajan, team officials and players and “promised Rs 10 lakh as award if they beat Minerva to brighten up East Bengal’s chances” in the title race
 
 East Bengal goalkeeping coach Abdul Azim Siddique called up Minerva head coach Khogen Singh in a bid to “unsettle” him
 
 In bad taste: East Bengal
 
 “This is in extremely bad taste. How can one make such accusations without valid evidence? Is there any recording? Let them put facts on the table. You cannot randomly cast a slur on a club like East Bengal.”
 
 Subir Ganguly, a member of executive committee of East Bengal
 
 AIFF probe on
 
 AIFF vice-president Subrata Dutta said their integrity officer will start the probe. “It is only after we receive his report, further action will be taken,” he said.
 
 
