NEW DELHI: Dalits are at the centre stage of the Koregaon Bhima controversy, but the real battle is between bahujanvadi Marathas, who stand for socio-politics dominated by non-Brahmins, and right-wing organizations that want   to tag along with Hindutva organizations.

 There are efforts to paint the Koregaon Bhima violence and its aftermath as a conflict between Marathas and dalits, but most Maratha organizations are rubbishing it. Right-wing and Maratha organizations are taking socio-political reasons for the stand in the ongoing conflict.
 
 In the last two decades, the Maratha Seva Sangh and its youth wing Sambhaji Brigade, have been at the forefront of a new front of Marathas, dalits and Muslims against right-wing organizations which enjoy the support of the BJP and  .
 
 Sambhaji Brigade played an active role in organizing a march which culminated in the Elgar Parishad at Shaniwarwada in Pune on December 31, 2017, a day before the Koregaon Bhima celebrations to commemorate the January 1, 1818 battle. 
 
 The Brigade also facilitated Koregaon Bhima celebrations, sources said. The Akhil Bhartiya Maratha Mahasang, another organization of the community, was quick to jump into action when tension prevailed in Vadhu village over the samadhi of Govind  .
 
 According to Rajendra Kondhare of Akhil Bharatiya Maratha Mahasangh, Maratha leaders rushed to the village and defused the tension. “The matter was settled. Marathas have respect for Gaikwad who performed the last rites of  ,” he said. 
 
 However, some youths organized a rally in Koregaon Bhima on January 1 to oppose the celebrations. According to dalit leader Prakash Ambedkar, these youths were instigated by right-wing activists   and  .
 
 The RSS and other Hindu organizations have their version of history where they rue the Koregaon Bhima battle. RSS ideologue M S Golwalkar in his collection of writings had criticized the celebrations and targeted a prominent dalit leader for glorifying the battle. Ekbote, Bhide and their supporters have been toeing the line that the end of peshwai was the end of Hindu rule. 
 
 In the last two decades, a section of the Maratha community led by Maratha Seva Sangh is bridging the gap between dalits and Marathas. The Seva Sangh has published a series of books re-writing history alleging that Brahmin historians pitted Marathas against Muslims and dalits to continue their religious supremacy in the name of Hindutva. 
 
 Sambhaji Brigade agitated against those who 'helped'   write his book on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. 
 
 Maratha organizations are in consonance with Ambedkar’s followers that the end of the peshwai was freedom brahmanical rule. The Brigade has been accused of spreading “venomous” propaganda against Brahmins while building a new bahujan narrative against the right wing and convincing their brethren that dalits and Muslims are their allies and not the “brahmanical” BJP and Sena. On Wednesday, Maratha organizations joined the bandh.
 
 
