COIMBATORE: The Corporation Elementary School at   that has 99 students has been functioning with just one teacher for the last three months. As per government norms, there should be one teacher for every 30 students.

 The school, established in 1967, conducts classes from I to V. “The enrolment had gone down to 60 a few years ago. But, for the last two years, the number has been close to 100. However, the lack of amenities and shortage of teachers is prompting parents to take their children out of the school,” said headmaster  .
 
 On Friday, several parents gathered outside the school and staged a protest.   K, mother of two children who study at the school, said the one teacher has been handling all classes for more than three months. “A trainee teacher, who was appointed here, left within a few days. Our children’s future is at stake. The school badly lacks infrastructure. It does not even have a compound wall.   vehicles pass through the school ground all the time. Children also run to the road,” she told TOI. As housekeeping staff cook on the school’s terrace, a fire accident can happen anytime, she added.
 
 A Hajeema, another parent, said parents who can not afford private schools send their children to the corporation school. “My son, a class II student, has been studying well till November. Since November, not a single class has been conducted due to shortage of teachers. We are not asking for A-grade facilities. How can a school function without teachers?” she asked.
 
 The corporation education officer was unavailable for comment. An official told TOI that a teacher named Sakthivel, who used to teach class I and II students, was recently transferred to another school, leaving the other teacher,  , overburdened.
 
 “Another teacher, who was appointed to this school, has filed a case and his appointment has been stalled,” the official said.
 
 The parents demanded the education department to make alternate arrangements and appoint another teacher. “We will petition the district collector regarding the issue on Monday,” said Hajeema.
 
 
