JALANDHAR:   Parminder Singh Bajwa, who last week registered an FIR against Congress   bypoll candidate Hardev Singh   Sherowalia for illegal mining, claimed that he had called up Jalandhar Rural   Gurpreet Bhullar late on Thursday night for advice.

 He said he had called up Bhullar to ask him how to handle the complaint against Laddi, but he was busy. Bajwa registered the case against Laddi on Friday morning.
 
 “After the Chief Electoral Officer Punjab issued directions, seeking a report within 24 hours on the complaint sent by   against Laddi Sherowalia, I called up the SSP. When I asked him what should be done about the complaint as the CEO had asked for a report within 24 hours, the SSP said he was very busy and did not guide me,” Bajwa told the media at a local hotel on Monday evening.
 
 “I also called up the tehsildar and the mining department officials to seek their help as any inquiry in the complaint could not be conducted without involving their departments, but they also said that they would come in the morning and only a patwari turned up. It was in these circumstances — other departments were not helping me as time stipulation was staring at me and the SSP did not guide me — that I registered the FIR. I mentioned that due to the byelection the allegations could be politically motivated and any further action would be taken only after an inquiry and if found false the FIR would be cancelled,” said Bajwa, who clearly appeared to be under great stress.
 
 Bajwa also said his phone call records would confirm these details. He revealed that he had sent his ‘resignation’ to the SSP and circulated it on the social media for his own safety. “I was then pressurized by my superiors to write about withdrawing my resignation. Later I was asked to proceed on leave,” he alleged, adding that after initial leave of two days, he was forced to proceed on leave for another five days.
 
 When contacted for comments of the claims made by Bajwa, SSP Bhullar said, “No comments.”
 
 Bajwa also revealed that his service revolver, an AK-47 rifle given to him and two gunmen attached with him had been withdrawn on Sunday evening. “Now, I am left with my own private licensed weapon.”
 
