BHOPAL: The Supreme Court's striking down of an Uttar Pradesh law that provided for lifetime housing for former chief ministers has left the   government with little wriggle room in a similar case. Ex-CMs Digvijaya Singh, Uma Bharti, Kailash Joshi and Babulal Gaur hold sarkari bungalows in Bhopal.

 
 State public relations minister Narrotam Mishra said, “I have not gone through the SC order yet. As soon as we get it, the order will be complied with.”
 
 A petition, similar to the one filed by an NGO in UP, was filed by law student Raunak Yadav before Madhya Pradesh high court in 2017 challenging an amendment made by the   government in   (Salary and Allowances) Act 1972 to allow exchief ministers to avail lifelong facilities like government bungalows, salary and perks at par with that of ministers in the government. An order to amend the Act was issued on April 24, 2016.
 
 At the last hearing, the MP government sought more time from the high court to file its reply, citing UP’s ongoing trial
 
 in SC. In December 2017, the MP government had also submitted before the court that it can reconsider its decision. “Now, the MP government has no option but to follow the SC order,” said Vipin Yadav, Raunak’s lawyer. The next hearing is scheduled for June 16.
 
 Yadav, a law student from Jabalpur, has said in his petition that Supreme Court had already ruled that such a facility to former ministers was not lawful. Besides, it’s a waste of public money, he said, naming ex-chief ministers Uma Bharti, Kailash Joshi and Digvijaya Singh as beneficiaries of government bungalows in the state capital.
 
 Director, MP estate directorate, Amrapal Singh told TOI on Monday that the government will decide its stand after going through the SC order. While Digvijaya and Bharti couldn’t be contacted,   spokesperson K K Mishra said most of the occupants are BJP leaders. “Digvijaya Singh, being a Rajya Sabha member, is entitled to a government bungalow. Uma Bharti and Kailash Joshi are illegal occupants,” he said.
 
 BJP sources pointed out that Babulal Gaur is an   and eligible for government housing. “From what I have come to know through media, this SC order is restricted to UP only,” Gaur told TOI.
 
