Kota: Protesting against Padmaavat in Kota, members of Rastriya Karni Sena demanded to ban the film across the country. Markets remained closed at many places, while members submitted memorandums to district officials. They also blocked Kota–Jaipur highway near Ramganjbalaji village in Bundi for a brief period. However, police restored traffic immediately.

 The activists along with women of Rajput community today noon assembled at Maharana Pratap circle in Kunhari area of Kota city and raising slogans against the release of the movie demanded to immediately ban it across the country. The youth wings of Sena and Sarv Samaj burnt the tiers at the circle and led a few meters march to lodge the protest.
 
 On the call by Karni Sena for Bandh against the release of the movie Padmavat, most of the markets in Ramganjmandi town of Koa remained closed. Around 75 percent shops in the market remained closed, said SHO at Ramganjmandi police station Manoj Sikerwal. The local market unions in Ramganjmandi town on every 25th of the months hold monthly holiday and most of the shops remain closed, he said adding it is in this way the market unions extended support to the Bandh call. Markets also remained closed in Chomela town of Jhalawar district while activists submitted memorandum to SDM in Dug town. The activists in Bhawanid Mandi town of Jhalawar district reportedly assembled to block the railway line but the police reached in time and foil the plan. The activists did move march to railway station but were dispersed and stopped, told a police personnel from Jhalwar. The activists lodged the protest in Baran city by forming human chain while a memorandum to ban the movie and to ban the same across India was submitted in Chabda town of the district. 
 
 The Activists of Karni Sena and Sarv Samaj also blocked a side Kota – Jaipur highway near Ramganjbalaji village in Bundi for a brief period however traffic continued. The activists also burnt tier and led a march for a few meters lodging their protest against the release and demanding to ban the same across the country.
 
 
