HYDERABAD: If the ever-increasing traffic load wasn't enough, there are nearly 2,000 rickety   buses that ply in the city that breakdown frequently in a nightmare for commuters. It is not unusual that the buses, which make 20 to 25 rounds, breakdown more than once a day. 

 In January alone, there were 33 RTC bus breakdowns recorded by the Hyderabad traffic police and another 25 to 30 by the Cyberabad traffic police. Besides the RTC buses, there are school buses, cement mixers, tractors and other ageing vehicles which also breakdown suddenly bringing traffic to a halt.
 
 
  
  
 
 While the number of RTC bus breakdowns, and the time taken to attend to such incidents, have reduced over the last two years - with more 'breakdown relief vans' being pressed into service - heavy vehicles coming to a standstill continue to bring traffic to a crawl, especially around signals or flyovers. 
 
 "Recently there was an unusually long traffic jam on the   route. After I inched ahead for about half a kilometer, I spotted an RTC bus that had broken down meters before the flyover. It had a ripple effect on traffic for about a kilometer," said  , a commuter.
 
 While the TSRTC has nearly 3,800 buses plying in the city, over half of them have been on the roads for 15 years or more. While the corporation is supposed to do away with the older fleet periodically and bring in newer buses, the constant demand for more connectivity has ensured that even buses which are not up to the mark remain on the road, say insiders. "There is no yardstick being followed. Previously a few batches of buses were given a facelift with new bodies, but there are many more which ply in shabby and rickety conditions," said an official.
 
 Lack of bus bays, forces buses to stop in the middle of the road, adding to the problem. "I request GHMC authorities to build a foot-over bridge at   and shift both RTC bus bays to the east (towards   flyover). This will help a number of passengers stay safe when they get on and off the bus. It will also reduce traffic blocks since passengers on foot cause snarls while they cross the road. I request traffic police to take act against unauthorised stopping of vehicles near bus bays," wrote TOI reader KV Varadaiah. 
 
 
