MUMBAI: Dam contractor Jigar Thakkar, 41, an accused in the   irrigation scam, shot himself in his car opposite Marine Plaza hotel at   in south Mumbai on Tuesday night. 

 A Ghatkopar resident and director in the family-controlled D Thakkar Construction, Thakkar is believed to have recently defaulted on a Rs100 crore loan from a public sector bank, TOI has learned. "He was one of the biggest irrigation contractors in the Vidarbha region with an annual turnover of around Rs 400 crore," said a source. 
  
  
 Last month, the state   (ACB) filed a chargesheet against Thakkar and several others in the irrigation scam, first reported by TOI in 2012. The case pertained to irregularities in award of irrigation work contracts by the   (VIDC). 
 
 "The incident took place at 6.30pm. Thakkar had come along with his driver from Chembur. The car was parked opposite Hotel Marine Plaza. Thakkar, who was sitting on the rear seat, asked his driver to get down. Soon after, he fired one round in his skull," said a senior police officer.
 
 Hearing the gunshot, the driver looked into the car and was shocked to see Thakkar lying, bleeding. Not wasting any time, he drove the car to a nearby private hospital, but was reportedly told by the hospital to take him to the government-run GT Hospital near Crawford Market. "At GT Hospital, he was declared dead on arrival," added another officer.
 
 
 
 
  accused Jigar Thakkar, shot himself in his car at Marine Drive on Tuesday evening. Hearing the gunshot, the driver looked into the car and was shocked to see Thakkar lying, bleeding. Not wasting any time, he drove the car to a nearby private hospital, but was reportedly told by the hospital to take him to the government-run GT Hospital near Crawford Market.
 
 “At GT Hospital, he was declared dead on arrival,” added another officer.
 
 Hospital authorities then informed the Marine Drive police, who took possession of Thakkar’s licensed revolver and car. The gun will be sent for ballistic analysis.
 
 A police team conducted a panchnama while another team recorded the driver Sunil Singh’s statement. No suicide note has been found. “We found some papers related to his dealings and we are trying to verify the same,” said a police officer. Thakkar’s family soon arrived at the hospital and was inconsolable.
 
 Thakkar had visited a bank at Nariman Point on Tuesday. At the hospital, Vishal, his younger brother, said, “We are under stress.” Thakkar is survived by his wife and two children. Marine Drive police have registered an accidental death case. The family was suffering from a liquidity crunch, sources said. Sources close to the family also said Jigar wanted to sell his crane business, which is worth around Rs100 crore.
 
 The 4,457-page chargesheet filed by ACB last month accused contractors and VIDC officials of collusion for wrongfully floating tenders. It led to M/s R J Shah and D Thakkar Construction—a joint venture formed by private firms—bag a Rs 56.57 crore contract in the Gosikhurd project. The work was awarded for building the tail branch canal of Mokhabardi lift irrigation scheme, one of the components of the Gosikhurd dam. The chargesheet said rules were tweaked to accommodate the Shah-Thakkar JV. In August 2015, TOI reported how forged documents furnished by Thakkar’s company to procure irrigation contracts in Vidarbha were part of the 7,000 pages of evidence submitted to ACB.
 
 There were just three bidders for the contract. The contractor showed one of his firms, having no experience in executing irrigation projects, as qualified to do the work. Of the three bidders, two (D Thakkar Construction and S N Thakkar Constructions) were linked. They were shadow firms of each other and belonged to the same family. It was also found that deposit money of the third firm was paid from the bank account of D Thakkar Construction. RJ Shah-D Thakkar, did not have adequate bid capacity to be eligible. “The evaluation committee of VIDC deviated from the stipulated condition and altered them fraudulently to select the contractor,” said a complaint filed with the ACB by Nagpur-based NGO Janmanch.
 
 D Thakkar Construction claimed to have a turnover of Rs 425 crore.
 
 
