Gurgaon: More than 20 passengers, including an assistant sub inspector of Gurgaon police, were injured in a head-on collision between a bus and a dumper near   on the Gurgaon-Jhajjar state highway on Wednesday morning. Locals reached the accident site first and rushed the injured to nearby hospitals. 

 The vehicles involved in the collision were badly damaged. The driver of the bus and three passengers - two women and one child - were seriously injured. 
 
 Eleven injured persons are under treatment in different hospitals in Farrukhnagar and Gurgaon while others were discharged after first aid. 
 
 On the complaint of the bus conductor, police have lodged an FIR against the dumper driver who fled the spot after the accident.
 
 The accident happened near Sultanpur bird sanctuary around 8:00am when the bus belonging to the Ishwar co-operative society was going from Gurgaon to Jhajjar via Farrukhnagar.
 
  More than 25 passengers were travelling in the bus. At the time of the accident, there was light fog in the air. Bus conductor Arjun Singh, a resident of Kutani village, said in his complaint that the bus had dropped passengers at Sultanpur bus stop and was moving ahead when a speeding dumper, loaded with stones, hit the bus from the front. The collision uprooted the seats of the bus, along with the passengers. The stones, additionally, injured the passengers. 
 
 Locals gathered at the accident site after hearing the screams of the injured passengers and rescued them.
 
 “The dumper was coming from the Jhajjar side at full speed and hit the bus. To save myself, I held on to my seat but it was also uprooted and I was injured,” said Kuldeep, a passenger. After a few minutes, a police team, headed by inspector Karan Singh, SHO, Farrukhnagar police station, reached the spot and the vehicles were removed from the road with cranes.
 
 The injured include Ayush (22) and Kuldeep (23), both residents of Hans Enclave, Gurgaon, and students of a polytechnic college in Jhajjar. Kuldeep (30), a resident of Maham, Surender (35), a resident of Faridabad, Rahul (19), a student of ITI, Jhajjar, and resident of Madanpuri, Gurgaon, Vinay (18), a student of class XII and resident of Sultanpur; and Satbir (35), a resident of Jhajjar; Nishant Joshi (22) and her 3-year-old son, Dipesh, both residents of Bihwani. Leela Ram (50), a resident of Jhajjar; bus driver Naseeb (25), a resident of Dadri Toe; bus conductor Arjun and ASI Harikishan of Farrukhnagar police station. According to police, all the injured persons are out of danger now. An FIR has been registered against the dumper driver under sections 279 (negligence of driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 427 (causing damage) of IPC at Farrukhnagar police station. “We have registered a case and are conducting raids to nab the dumper driver. He will be arrested soon,” said Singh. 
 
 
