PANAJI: Even as chief minister Manohar   on Sunday announced that he has directed Goa Tourism Development Corporation to start an app-based   service in four months, a Panaji-based businessman has been successfully running Goa’s first internet-based taxi service for four years with no government support.

 Today, Raghu   has at least 100 local taxi owners across Goa—except for a few pockets in north and south Goa beach belt where the taxi mafia’s writ runs large—registered with his company that offers 24x7 service at a “reasonable rate”.
 
 “Our services are not cheap, but they are reasonable. We do not own a single taxi. We give business to local taxi owners registered with us. They do not have to sign any contract and are free to leave the very next day after they have registered,” says Shetiye.
 
 “Those registered with us have a business of around Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000 per month,” he says, adding that the key to streamlining Goa’s taxi business is to make the services affordable for all.
 
 “Today, people in Goa get scared of hiring a cab because they find it exorbitant. If we charge an amount which everyone can afford, then see how everyone and anyone will start hiring a cab and how it becomes a profitable business for local taxi operators,” says Shetiye.
 
 He says the so-called peak season taxi rates, which are double the regular rates, has seen tourist bookings in star hotels drop by around 30%. “I cannot believe the government has been at loggerheads with taxi operators for three years now. I can resolve the issue within three days. It is just a communication gap,” says Shetiye.
 
 Shetiye, who is against bringing in app-based services like Ola and Uber, also feels that the government has not business to get into an app-based taxi service. “If the government starts entering businesses, then what will locals do,” he asks.
 
 He also reckons that businesses like Ola and Uber may create largescale unemployment among taxi operators in Goa, as it may attract vehicles from outside to register with these companies.
 
 “Ola and Uber are companies just like Pepsi and Coke and we may be like limewater, but we are still as good. Local taxi operators should either register with us or start their own local internet-based service,” he says.
 
 Shetiye says it was purely business at the heart of his idea to begin TaxiGo. “It was not social work.”
 
 Often, he had to face hostility from the taxi operators, which he is unable to fathom. “I am on the same page as the local taxi operators on most issues. There should be a balance the government should maintain in expanding the tourism business. It cannot grow to the extent that it destroys the local culture and identity. The government should regulate rent-a-bike business,” he says.
 
 
