For the past three years,   Everywhere has been giving its performances a new dimension and a twist unlike before. As  , Hindustani vocalist and member of Raagas Everywhere says, “We are a group of artistes who present raagas in a creative way. We usually begin with a pure Classical format. Our performances begin with a narration and an introduction with a raaga and then we move onto other elements like semi-classical and folk  . All these elements are woven in the form of a story.”

 But what’s different about Raagas Everywhere is the group’s ability to include Western musical elements, including opera music, into a  . “As a group, we all have different styles and we try to discover raagas through that. We also do Western musical pieces, strains of Rag Bhopali and include elements of opera,” says Chaitra, adding that being from different backgrounds enhances their performance. “Even though we all come from different backgrounds, we have to have one mind — we have to have discussions and spend a lot of time with each other. It’s all about one’s perception. I relate and translate music in my own way. The notes and the swara are the same everywhere. You just need to relate to it,” she adds.
 
 Their biggest USP, according to Chaitra, is the discovery of raagas. “Through our performances, we try to discover music, raagas and new elements, and try to give a new dimension to art itself,” she says.
 Through their journey of discovery, the audience’s perception over the years has changed as well. “It has become interesting. We introduce new ideas and try to customize our performance to a particular  . For e.g., there was a performance which was mostly conversational. It was a story with a lot of information and musical pieces weaved in it. Similarly, there are a lot of youngsters who are interested in Hindustani classical music. They just need some encouragement, and we need to do that,” says Chaitra. The group, however, now wants to record and put out a studio version of their work. “We also want to do a lot of work especially for children,” Chaitra sums up.
 
 
