

 
 
 After 20 years of covering the world on airplanes and cars and all sorts of conveyance, I realised that by moving so quickly through stories, I was missing more important stories than the ones I was sent to cover. The idea was that slowing down to the pace of the human walk, and walking through the stories and headlines of the day would give me a deeper understanding of the issues we face collectively.
 
 The overarching vision of the walk — to turn it into a laboratory for slow   — hasn’t changed, though the finer points do due to climate or politics. The walk is taking longer. The new endpoint is 2023-24. What determines the pace of the walk is storytelling. There are many stories along the way. That has slowed me down.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Every day is a new challenge. I don’t have to do repetitive work. In the morning, I have a cup of chai, stop at a dhaba for breakfast, walk 5-40km a day depending on the landscape, topography and the people I meet. At sunset, I look for places to spend the night. I can stay with a family, a roadside lodge or inn, or in a tent. The only thing that remains is unpacking the rucksack each day and packing again, the ritual of arrival and departure. It has been an overwhelmingly positive experience. Once you are comfortable with uncertainty and the capabilities of your body, you don’t have to worry. People will be compassionate and help you, even if you are a stranger.
 
 
 
 It has reinforced my hunch that we miss more than we report by reporting so fast to meet deadlines. The information revolution is a gift, but my philosophy is that that we’ve focused on it at the expense of burrowing deeply into stories, and this has allowed the emergence of fake news as a tool of misinformation. All you’re doing is harvesting the internet for stories. But if you walk through a village in Punjab, get to know the people and trust them to tell you the story behind the story, that makes you a grassroots expert and your information hard to refute. There has to be a space for deeper storytelling or reportage that goes under the headlines and lifts them up to show how facile they are, and that the actual truth may be different.
 
 
 
 I walked through the refugee crisis in 2013-14, around the margins of the Syrian civil war in Turkey. If you’re a TV reporter, it is a story of victimhood. They (refugees) are often portrayed as disempowered and helpless, when in fact tragedy mobilises our inner resources. It is inspiring to see families and villages travelling together, maintaining cohesiveness and extending compassion and hospitality to others, including me. That doesn’t get reported often enough.
 
 
 
 Borders remain a mysterious eternity. They are hard and soft. There are borders that are porous, relaxed or tense, or sometimes relaxed and then tense. It is like human skin.
 
 This is my first time in India. Crossing from Punjab in Pakistan to India, people were growing wheat on both sides using the exact same tools. You think nothing has changed but religious systems and national questions change. This border crossing has been poignant. It is heavily militarised and you can clearly see it. I interviewed a Sikh farmer and a Pakistani farmer, and their daily lives had so much in common and they had this no man’s land between them. There is great competition between these two countries, but at the grassroots level of the farmer, there is nostalgia for what used to be before the border.
 
 
 
 This project tells me that migration isn’t going away, it’s growing. Migration is the natural state of humanity. We’re still getting adapted to not moving anymore and welcoming people who are still moving from warzones or moving for opportunity. Given the way the world is interconnected today, the notion that you go can go back in time and build walls seems to be a wrong solution.
 
 We’ve moved beyond a time where we could box people in, like the Berlin Wall, both politically and economically. Those who have an understanding of human migration will be one step ahead of communities that are so afraid of change that they stop moving forward and stay stuck in time.
 
 
 
 
