TRICHY: The widening feud in   family spilled over to the political landscape of   with ousted   general secretary  's brother   seeking to revive another faction of the AIADMK. 

 Divaharan, who has been at loggerheads with Sasikala's nephew T T V Dhinakaran, who has recently launched Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), inaugurated an office for the   (Amma faction) at his hometown Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district on Sunday. "I have given life to Amma Ani buried by Dhinakaran. Soon we will appoint office bearers across the state,'' he said. Divaharan said the Amma faction fighting for AIADMK symbol with the Edappadi Palaniswami-led faction was abandoned by Dhinakaran to start his own party.
 
 Divaharan's decision has offered a reason to rejoice for Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam supporters since the move would weaken Dhinakaran's AMMK. Much of AMMK officebearers in Trichy, Thanjavur and other delta districts are loyalists of Divaharan. Divaharan's announcement of reviving Amma Ani has caught many of them by surprise. "We are confused whether to back Divaharan or Dhinakaran,'' said a Sasikala loyalist from Thanjavur. "None from EPS or OPS side would join Amma Ani. Only those from AMMK would switch over here ultimately weakening Dhinakaran,'' said the AMMK functionary. AIADMK leaders, apparently cheerful over the rift, have decided to wait and watch. "The party will decide on accommodating Sasikala's brother V K Divaharan in AIADMK,'' Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai told reporters in Coimbatore when asked if he would be taken on board since he withdrew support to AMMK. Thambidurai, though non committal on taking Divakaran back, however did not rule out the possibility.
 
 Party sources said that while EPS and OPS were yet to take chalk out a strategy to make the best of the situation. Some ministers, especially from the Kongu belt were against entertaining Divaharan in any manner. But Divaharan said the move was not aimed at Dhinakaran. "We made the decision considering the prevailing political scenario", he said.
 
 Divaharan said that he had played a major role to elevate Jayalalithaa as a general secretary of the party. She nominated a number of his friends and supporters at various positions in the party, only because of his recommendations, he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Dhinakaran said in Chennai on Sunday that he did not wish to waste his time and energy responding to statements and charges made by Divaharan. 
 
 
