NAGPUR: Nagpur University (NU) has announced its new academic session from June 15 even as the exams for a couple current semesters would go on till July 20.

 According to the academic calender released by NU, the winter   will commence from October 18. As per UGC norms, the 90-day teaching for new semester need to begin from the next day of last exam. By this count, the classes will have to be held till October 20, which looks unlikely.
 
 Bachelor of Arts (BA) second semester, having over 30,000 students, is likely to be the worst hit. It is followed by Bachelor of Education (BEd) second semester, whose exams are ending on July 20, and some semesters of LLB, whose timetable is yet to be announced.
 
 Besides the overlapping of exam and new session, BA students will also have to cope with the long gap between their exams. Of their five subjects, a majority of BA students will be appearing for two papers in May, two papers in June, and one in July. The gap between papers range between five days and 21 days for one particular combination of subjects.
 
 NU vice-chancellor SP Kane has ruled out any change in either of the schedules. “It’s not for the first time that such semester schedule is framed. This has been in practice since 1994. In view of backlog subjects and period of paper correction, exam timetable is adjusted. All the colleges affiliated to NU have been following it since years,” he said.
 
 On overlapping of the new term and exams, Kane said students will be allowed to attend the lectures until the results for the second semester are declared. “They might skip classes on their exam days. The semester start cannot be postponed. It will stay as it is,” he said.
 
 Experts slammed the VC for attempting to justify a wrong. “Does this mean that the university can’t improve? You have been inconveniencing the students for years. At least now, the VC must take corrective measures,” a humanities teacher said.
 
 Former chairman of Mass Communication Board Sunil Mishra alleged that NU has been deliberately not adhering to its schedule to help private colleges. “The mandatory norm of 180 days is not being followed in colleges. Colleges get temporary teachers for a month and get the syllabus covered,” he said. 
 
 Mishra added that NU can’t start the term unless the exam for all courses are over.
 
 
