Coimbatore: The school education department would start intensive residential training for the medical aspirants from government and government-aided schools from April 5, to prepare them for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Examination (NEET). Coimbatore is one among the nine centres for the training. The other centres are Thiruvallur, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Trichy, Chennai, Erode, Kovilpatti and Thoothukudi. “It is an attempt of the state government to increase the number of students entering into the medical colleges from the government and government-aided schools,” said a source from the school education department. About 2,000 students would be trained in Tamil medium at centres in Thiruvallur, Coimbatore, Dindigul, Virudhunagar and Trichy, and 900 students in English medium at centres in Chennai, Erode, Kovilpatti and Thoothukudi, the source added. “Coimbatore was selected to train the students in Tamil medium,” said chief educational officer P Ayyannan, adding that arrangements were being made to train the students at Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology at Kuniamuthur. About 50 students would be selected from each districts based on their Class X marks, learning abilities and assessments taken during the higher secondary education. “Each centres will train a total of 350 to 400 students from five or six nearby districts for a month,” said an official attached to the chief educational officer’s office. Parents’ permission was also sought to allow their wards for the training. “Teachers specialised in physics, chemistry, botany and zoology, who would be teaching at the centres, were recently sent to Bengaluru for intensive training,” said the official, adding that experts would also train the students. “The students will have to take assessment tests during evening hours on a regular basis and the evaluation will be done subsequently,” the source from school department said. Meanwhile, starting April 5, the state government would conduct coaching classes every day between 9am and 5pm at 412 centres across the state. Earlier, these coaching classes were offered only at the weekends.