NEW DELHI: It was a rare sight. Around 200   on a busy road in   were demolished on Monday but there were no protests. Only 10 owners had made an attempt to stall the demolitions by approaching the high court but didn’t succeed. The others were apparently weighed down by guilt — guilt over three people dying in the past two years in ambulances stuck on the congested stretch.

 Many owners lent a helping hand to the   squad. Ignou Road is the lifeline for thousands of people living in Neb Sarai, Maidan Garhi, Rajpur and several colonies nearby as it connects them to important markets in south Delhi. But encroachments have made going through it a nightmare with school vans stuck for hours and DTC withdrawing its bus service from the area for the same reason, pointed out Ravinder Singh of an association of various nearby colonies.
 
 Monday morning began with deployment of CRPF and Delhi Police personnel, water cannons and quick response teams. Soon several JCBs rumbled down the road and started tearing down the buildings. A couple of days earlier the same place had been the destination of people looking for groceries, food items, mobiles etc. It also had salons, shops of property dealers and other outlets.
 
  
 The authorities were surprised that no one protested against the exercise. “It is a rare moment — completing such demolitions without any objections or protests,” said a CRPF constable. Manoj Kumar, a representative of the traders, said: “Many owners of these buildings even hired labourers to demolish their own shops and houses.” South district deputy commissioner Amjad Tak, who led the entire operation, agreed. “The   supported the demolition,” he said.
 
 The association had held several meetings with traders to discuss the congestion arising from the encroachments and the fallout. The situation had also taken a toll on the income of the traders because the number of customers had been dwindling. Meetings were held with Tak and the residents’ associations to convince the traders. “The demolitions have paved the way for DTC buses to ply again on this road for which we will pursue the matter with the transport department,” said a trader.
 
 After notices were sent to the traders in January this year, a group of 10 had approached the Delhi high court, seeking a stay, arguing that some of the land had not been acquired by the government and hence no demolition should be carried out till compensation is paid to the land owners. The court finally dismissed the petition and asked the authorities to go ahead with their plan.
 
 Some traders are, however, feeling miserable. Nazir Ahmad has no option but to take shelter in the partially demolished building, although it is extremely dangerous, till a new building is constructed.
 
 Tak claimed that width of the road had originally been 60 feet but slowly it had decreased to 40. The authorities may also demolish a portion of a DDA compound on the other side of this road to make the road wider. 
 
 The traders are now underlining the need for PWD, which owns this road, to speedily construct it and also complete the sewer line work which has been pending for five years.
 
 
