JAIPUR: The biggest housing scheme in the history of   (JDA) will be launched soon at   village situated on   Highway. 

 The civic body has planned to develop 3,000 plots of different sizes on approximately 1,350 bighas.
 
 A senior official at JDA said, “As per preliminary estimation, the JDA would fix Rs 16,000 per square metre as reserve price. However, the actual price will be fixed by the finance department. The proposal has been forwarded for the same. The scheme is expected to be launched by February end.”
 
 Along with Ninder, the JDA is planning to develop one more scheme at Ajmer road, near Bagru toll plaza. The planning of the scheme is underway. Both the schemes will give financial boost to the cash-strapped JDA whose coffers are almost dry. 
 
 Though, the JDA has planned to launch the housing scheme at Ninder, the deadlock between farmers and civic body remains over the land acquisition.
 
 Nagendra Singh, coordinator of  , said, “The farmers of Ninder village will not give possession of their land. The state government back stabbed the farmers and did not stick to their commitment. The farmers were put behind bars after the consensus was given to end the protest.”
 
 Earlier, farmers of Ninder village had lain half-buried on the ground for 30 days against the acquisition of their agriculture land. They had ‘called off’ their protest on October 31 after receiving written assurance from the JDA to conduct a fresh survey of the acquired land.
 
 Ninder farmers, who had recently ‘called off’ their protest after receiving assurance from the government, alleged that the authorities had breached the contract.
 
 “The survey was not conducted by the state government and they are forcefully acquiring our lands.” 
 
 Farmers alleged that majority of JDA’s housing schemes developed in past 10 years were still lying vacant and, yet, it was bent upon developing a new scheme, that too by uprooting the farmers and snatching away their means of livelihood. The civic body is developing a housing project without its utility after taking expensive land from the farmers.
 
 “The government should acquire land of farmers as per the new Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act. It’s clearly mentioned, that government cannot acquire land, if consent from 80% farmers is not given. Also, government is not providing any compensation to the farmers,” added a protester.
 
 
