

 
 
 
 The surveys would’ve been more appropriate had they been held after the announcement of candidates. It would be a good idea to conduct the surveys now. Ahead of UP polls last year, most surveys went wrong and BJP came out with flying colours.
 
 
 
 
 That’s not true. Modiji was occupied with various engagements in India and abroad, scheduled months in advance. He is campaigning in Karnataka from month-end. Besides Chanakya (BJP chief Amit Shah), all Union ministers are here backing us.
 
 
 
 
 That’s not true. The party decided not to give tickets to any MP other than me and B Sreeramulu. They abided by the decision. Shobha had no aspiration to contest, though supporters wanted her to. Vijayendra decided to contest from Varuna under pressure from party workers from Mysuru. However, our central leadership felt it was not appropriate to field both father and son when I’m being projected as the chief minister candidate. I found their concern genuine and agreed.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t think Veerashaiva-Lingayats have taken the denial of ticket more seriously than the evil designs of the Siddaramaiahled Congress to divide their community and deprive a   of chief ministership. Have you seen any Congressman talking about the religious minority issue of late? It suggests their decision has boomeranged and they will pay the price.
 
 
 
 
 We’re relying on Sreeramulu and not Reddy to win Ballari and neighbouring districts. No doubt Reddy is very well known in Ballari and is supporting some of our candidates... We haven’t given any ticket to any candidate at his instance but based only on the survey of winnability. Not only Reddy, many troubled me when I was CM but I have forgotten and forgiven them all.
 
 
 
 
 That is not true. No such decision has been made. But there is no doubt Sreeramulu will beat Siddaramaiah.
 
 
 
 
 Everyone, including Union minister HN Ananth Kumar, KS Eshwarappa and Shobha Karandlaje are working hard to bring the party to power and make me CM. There is no rift. 
 
