THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: If the leaking of question papers is the worst nightmare in school education sector, inordinate delay in the announcement of examination result is what plagues the higher education institutions in the state. “The absence of a common academic calendar poses various hardships to students. Delay in admission procedures and several other factors cut down the number of teachinglearning hours. They are supposed to get 90 days per semester, what they now get in colleges in   is only 60 or less. This in turn reflects in examinations as well. It’s not the leakage, but the quality of examinations that fail the higher education system here,” said  , vice-chairman, higher education council and former vicechancellor, MG  .

 The inordinate delay on the part of universities in publishing the results pose hindrance to prospects of higher education and jobs of students. It is in this background that the higher education council has set up a committee of pro-vice chancellors for the creation of a common academic calendar for all universities in the state.
 
 “Unlike universities in developed countries, we don’t have an outcome based education system. As a result, questions are not framed to assess how far the students have moved on what they were supposed to learn after each semester,” he said.
 
 As per the recommendations of the committee of university pro-vice chancellors appointed by the higher education council, early this week, the dates for examination notification to result declaration should be announced in the beginning of the academic year in consultation with teachers, students and university employees. Qualified teaching faculties in self-financing institutions should be given approval by universities for participating in the process of conducting examinations.
 
 
 Another recommendation is that all universities should start first semester degree classes before June 30 (within a month after the announcement of plus two result). The existing annual vacation system should be replaced with split vacation in the month of November and May.
 
