Nagpur: Mumbai firm Unity Infraprojects Private Limited has failed to construct 26 kms of cement-concrete road in seven years. Now, the company has sought an extension of two more years. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had issued work order to Unity Infra on June 6, 2011, for the phase I of the cement concrete road project. The project was to be completed on or before June 6, 2013, but the company managed to do so only on 4 kms of the contracted 26 kms. The deadline was then extended up to January 27 this year. As per the NMC’s data, Unity Infra has completed only 16 kms as on date. Of the total 30 roads, work has been completed on 13. Work on four roads at Ramdaspeth, Jaripatka, Dighori Naka and Lakadganj is in the final stages. Work is yet to begin on 13 roads. Ruling out chances of terminating Unity Infra’s contract, an NMC official told TOI that the process to extend the work order is going on. “Now, extension will be given with a time-bound programme to complete the project,” he said. If the NMC approves the extension, Unity Infra would have got nine years to construct 26 kms of road at an average of 2.88km a year. In comparison, the National Highway Authority of India used to complete 16.60 kms work in 2015-16 and 22.50 in 2016-17 every day. It has now set itself a target of 40 kms per day. The delay has escalated the project cost. At the time of issuing the work order, it was Rs77.50 crore. The cost was hiked to Rs122.79 crore when Unity was given an extension. “Another escalation is imminent as the provisions in the contract are such,” said an NMC official. Apart from the huge additional financial burden on the NMC, citizens too are facing many inconveniences due to the delay. The NMC is not doing any asphalting works on roads where cement work is to be undertaken by Unity. Even potholes are not being repaired. An official from Unity Infra said there are many reasons for the delay. “We are not handed over roads with full permissions and clearances. Take for example the Ajni railway station road. We have completed work on one side of road but do not have police permission to start on the other side. The decision to drop or cover five roads under the project is yet to be taken. We have also not received payment for work completed in time. Though we are to paid in 30 days, the payment since September is pending. Therefore, we had to slow down work,” he said.