Speaking at the conclusion of the   (GIM) in  , then   chief minister J Jayalalithaa pegged the total value of investments promised during the meet at Rs2.42 lakh crore. The state government, in a recent press release has stated that investment to the tune of Rs62,738 crore from at least 61 companies are at various stages of implementation. It has also announced that a second edition of GIM will be held from January 23 to 24 in 2019. The government hopes to attract twice the proposed investment of GIM-1 but has failed to explain why, only 25% of the promised investment has been realised so far. As the government prepares to start work towards GIM-2, it is the right time to assess the impact of GIM-1.

 GIM-1 was held in September, 2015 and its real impact should have been seen on the investment inflow in 2016-2017. According to the Union ministry of commerce and industry, the amount of foreign direct investment (FDI) received by TN fell by more than 50% to Rs14,276 crore between April and March 2016-2017, as against Rs29,200 crore during the corresponding period in 2015-2016. During the same period, the FDI to Maharashtra doubled from Rs61,370 crore to Rs1,26,616 lakh crore.  , too, registered a significant increase in FDI from 2015-2016 to 2016-2017. Between 2015 and 2016, Tamil Nadu’s   rankings saw a fall from number 12 to number 18 — the state lags behind Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand. 
 
  
  
 
 Under such circumstances, the TN government must introspect on the industrial landscape and investment atmosphere prevailing in the state. Such a drastic decline in FDI and drop in business rankings point towards a dysfunctional policy regime which no global investor summit can mend.
 
  
  
 
 Secondly, one of the best case studies to understand the efficacy of the investment proposals that came out of GIM-1 is that of Thoothukudi. In all, more than Rs1 lakh crore of the proposed investments from GIM-1 pertained to petroleum, gas and energy sectors. GIM-1 specifically promised a windfall industrial investment of Rs67,000 crore to Thoothukudi. With a well-developed V O Chidambaranar Port, road and air connectivity, there should have been no real impediment to materialise the investments. But, the promised projects have not yet taken off. 
 
  
  
 
 It is somewhat reassuring that the government promoted the Madurai-Thoothukudi Industrial Corridor Corporation, a special purpose vehicle created under State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil   (SIPCOT). Soon after, in 2016 5,550 acres of land was identified in the area around the port city, but it is only recently that the government roped in a German agency to help devise a land-use planning and management policy. Tremendous potential of southern TN waits to be realised and it would be advisable for the government to consider holding an investor summit only for this region. 
 
 Thirdly, it is useful for us to take a look at the government strategy in terms of competing with other states in terms of attracting investment. Though, Tamil Nadu has fallen behind states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka and  , it is strange to see the government through its department of information and public relations sending out emails on January 6, 2018 to media outlets in the state informing them of the ‘Advantage Assam’ roadshow in Chennai and the Global Investors’ Summit to be held in Guwahati. While Assam has every right to woo investment from across the country, it belies belief to see the TN’s actively promoting the outflow of investment from the state. 
 
 GIM-2 was initially planned for 2018 and the state budget 2017-18 had allotted `75 crore towards the event. Now, it has been rescheduled to January 2019 even though there was no need for the postponement. Such a lackadaisical approach towards a premier investment meeting reflects poorly on the government and shakes the confidence of potential investors. 
 
 All of this adds up to a lack of a clear strategy and coherent vision to navigate the state out of troubled waters. While Tamil Nadu may boast of a skilled labour force, quality infrastructure and good connectivity, there is an unshakeable feeling that the unstable political leadership has turned investors away. It would be prudent for the government to first put out a white paper on all the investments from GIM-1, learn from the lessons of GIM-1 and initiate a series of policy reforms that will create a welcoming investment climate before holding GIM-2. 
 
 (The writer is an advocate and a spokesperson of the DMK)
 
 
