VADODARA: It will be after over five decades that a legislator from the city will be elected as the speaker of the   assembly.

 After Fatehali Palejwala, who was the speaker between 1962 and 1967, Raopura BJP   Rajendra   will be presiding over proceedings in the assembly.
 
 Trivedi, the second term   MLA, was nominated for the speaker’s job by state BJP president Jitu Vaghani. Trivedi, was minister of state (MoS) for sports, youth and cultural affairs. He will file the nomination on February 17. If no one from the   files their nomination, Trivedi will be unanimously declared the speaker. It is likely that in keeping with the tradition of the speaker being from ruling party, Congress may not oppose Trivedi’s nomination.
 
 Trivedi will take oath as speaker on February 19, the first day of the assembly session.
 
 The supporters of Trivedi held celebrations and welcomed the decision, but the MLA himself said that he was having mixed feelings. “I have tears of joy in my one eye and sadness in another. I am happy to be chosen for the post, but at the same time I will have to resign from the party,” he said. The resignation is a tradition that is followed to make a point that the speaker shall stay neutral in his functioning.
 
 Trivedi (63) has been with the saffron party ever since he was a teenager. “I started working with the Jan Sangh when I was 16 and used to go to canvass for the party with the likes of Makrand Desai, Nalin Bhatt and others,” Trivedi.
 
 The Raopura MLA completed his graduation in science and law from the MS University (MSU). He went on to become one of the leading crime lawyers in the city. He also served as the vice chairman, executive chairman and chairman of the  . Trivedi served two terms as a councillor in the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). He was also appointed at the chairman of the municipal primary education committee. At his alma mater MSU, Trivedi served as a senate member as well as a syndicate member.
 
 As a lawyer, Trivedi also contested cases related to the post-Godhra 2002 communal riots. He provided legal aid to the accused in the Best Bakery massacre and the Gulbarg massacre.
 
 Trivedi stopped practising law in 2016 after he was made a minister. “Being a crime lawyer, the cases I contested were against the state. As a minister, it would not have been proper to do so,” he said. The possibility of appointment of a MLA from Vadodara to a key position was being discussed ever since a row erupted because not a single MLA from the district was included in the cabinet. A couple of MLAs are learnt to have even raised the issue with higher ups in the BJP.
 
 
