MANGALURU: Tuluvas in Parashurama's Shristi ushered in New Year on the auspicious Souramana Ugadi day with  . 

 Resonating in this festive fervour was 'Guttu Mane' or traditional village headman's house created at Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisargadhama at  , which took people on a trip down memory lane. Yakshagana talamaddale, sugam sangeeth and a lavish 25-item spread laid down for 'Bisu lunch' kept the visitors lapping up traditions.
 
 Tastefully laid 'Bisu Kani' on the porch of Guttu Mane consisting all conceivable vegetables and fruits grown in   with a mirror placed in the middle drew attention of the visitors. Even before they reached this 'Bisu Kani', water with jaggery pieces gave visitors the chance to slake their thirst even as the mercury soared outside. Artistes occupied the open space on the porch that also houses replica of pattada mancha to regale visitors with their talent.
 
  K Chinappa  , former vice-chancellor of Karnataka Folkore University, said   Parba is a festival special to the Tuluva people, which signified the close relationship of people to the land and inherent traditions. It has three inherent components - laying of Bisu Kani, naalerru madavuni and kaibitth paduni. All these have deep-rooted connections with the agricultural practices that people used to follow in the past and which centred round the village headman's house. 
 
 The day also marks first day of Paggu month of the traditional Tuluva calendar and start of an annual calendar of events that saw tenants (okkalu) take permission from their landlord (odeya) to start agricultural cycle for the forthcoming year up ending with suggi month. "Earlier, the tenants used to submit a share of their produce to the owner, seek their blessings, settle old 'geni' (dues) and settle on terms of new rent before starting preparation for the season," he said.
 
  Averring that there were regional variations to these traditions, Gowda said now Bisu Parba serves more as a unifying platform where nuclear than joint families are the norm. "It provides one platform to come and share the traditional lunch, exchange pleasantries and relive old traditions," Gowda explained. Steady stream of visitors to Guttu Mane to treasure exhibits on display there and to enjoy Bisu lunch validated move of organizers to hold the event. 
 
 
