SRINAGAR/MUMBAI: At least 10 people, including a 12-year old boy, were injured in a grenade attack by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Wednesday, while five Maharashtra legislators on a study trip to the Valley narrowly escaped the blast.

 
 The terrorists had hurled a hand grenade at a police vehicle at   which missed its target and hit pedestrians instead. Five legislators from Maharashtra — Vikram Kale and Dipak Chavan (Nationalist  ), Tukaram Kate and Kishore Patil (Shiv Sena) and   (Bhartiya Janata Party) — who were on a study tour to Jammu, narrowly escaped the grenade attack.
 
 
 The legislators, who were in the area when the blast took place, had gone to Anantnag to understand the functioning of the Panchayat Raj system. “The study team comprising 20 people, including the legislators, government officials and some of their family members, were driving from Bijbehara to Srinagar after completing a visit to one of the villages when we heard a loud sound.
 
 
 We thought it was a tyre-burst, but our local driver did not stop the vehicle,” Kale told TOI from Srinagar over phone.
 
 
 He added that the driver stopped the vehicle only after covering a considerable distance. “After stopping, our driver told us that it was a grenade attack. The tyres of our vehicle were punctured in the impact of the blast.
 
 
 Our security has been tightened and we will return to Mumbai on Friday,” Kale added. A police spokesman, while confirming the attack, said the injured civilians were admitted to several hospitals.
 
 
 One of the three women injured in the attack was shifted to a Srinagar hospital. The area was cordoned off and search operations started to apprehend the terrorists. In north Kashmir’s  , a guard deployed on security duty of a Bhartiya Janata Party official, went missing on Wednesday.
 
 
  SPO  , a resident of Shutloo village, allegedly fled with his service rifle and some ammunition, said sources.
 
 
  Sopore SSP  , confirming the disappearance, said a police team was sent to the spot to verify the details.
 
