LUCKNOW: The national president of the  ,   Yadav on Wednesday announced that he would soon launch ‘sachchai ki charcha’ (discussions on truth) in order to expose the false promises and failures of the Modi government.

 It was shameful that a prime minister was offering that educated unemployed youth sell ‘pakoras’ (roadside snacks) to hide the failure in fulfilling his promise of giving jobs to one crore youth every year. “We would expose such hollow promises of the NDA government by telling the truth to the public,” reiterated Akhilesh Yadav from his campaign.
 
 “Ab tak hui jhooti jhooti sachchai par ‘chai par charcha’… ab hogi sachche sach ki sachchai par charcha” (Enough of chai par charcha on unfounded claims, let’s talk facts),” Akhilesh tweeted.
 
 Talking to ToI earlier, the former UP chief minister said that his ‘sachchai ki charcha’ would be akin to BJP’s ‘chai pe charcha’ and would expose the failures of the BJP-led government at the Centre, which has done nothing for the state in nearly over four years of its government.
 
 The SP chief said that his ‘sachchai ki charcha’ would be launched during the two by-elections in the state where his party had finalized the names and would contest seeking support from other parties.
 
 The SP workers have been directed to hold discussions from drawing rooms to street corners and mobilize people. “The Modi government exploited votes and support and did nothing for the state which had given them a record 73 seats”, lamented Akhilesh, saying that the NDA had failed to deliver on its promise of an AIIMS in Gorakhpur and Rae Bareli.
 
 Akhilesh also criticised the Yogi government, saying fake encounters are nothing but cold-blooded murders and governments and police officers should stay away from such heinous crimes. Kasganj was just the BJP’s beginning to divide the society for votes, regretted the SP chief.
 
 Akhilesh said that his party would contest the two by-elections while seeking support from other parties to fight against communal forces. “The RSS foot soldiers are fanning out in villages of the two constituencies”, he said, adding that his party has also raised an army of committed workers to give a befitting reply to them.
 
 “Party workers have been asked to prepare a list of local issues in each of the two constituencies. At the same time they have been asked to list the welfare schemes and development projects that the SP government had launched when the party was in power. This will help people understand which party has actually delivered on the ground,” said a senior leader.
 
 Meanwhile, Akhilesh will be going to Ghazipur on Thursday to condole the death of former minister   Singh’s father. Singh, being a loyalist of his estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav, had fallen out of Akhilesh’s camp. The visit to Ghazipur is a clear signal of Akhilesh’s efforts to unite the entire party before the 2019   elections. Three days ago the SP president had visited the residence of party’s   member Beni Prasad Verma to greet him on his birthday.
 
 
