MUMBAI: When you've played nine big finals in your life (six in the IPL, two in World T20, and one in the 50-over World Cup), a 10th, doesn't really unnerve you. Especially if you're  . 

 
 
 
 
 On the eve of the  ' IPL final against  , 'Captain Cool,' who rarely talks to the media these days, was his usual relaxed self, as he sat next to his coach  , and his rival captain   and coach Tom Moody.
 
 
 
 
 The 36-year-old was swatting questions with the same ease with which he has battered the bowlers in this IPL. What'll be your strategy in the final, someone quizzed him. Turning to Fleming, he fired: "He's the one who makes the strategy, I execute it. He gets a fat pay cheque to execute it." The answer left the Kiwi amused.
 
 
 
 
 The best of the lot, though, was reserved for the query on not bowling veteran off-spinner   at all during the first qualifier against the Sunrisers at the Wankhede Stadium on Tuesday night, which saw CSK eke out a thrilling two-wicket win. "You know I have a lot of cars and bikes in my house. I don't ride all at a time," he started off, even as Williamson gave a curious look.
 
 "There are times, especially when you have six to seven bowlers in the side, you want to see the conditions, who's batting, and what is needed at that point. I have said it in the past when we had (Pawan) Negi and (Ravindra) Jadeja, I always gave them different slots in bowling. The unfair this that the player gets criticised for what the batsman is doing. I see the conditions, and what can be the best for the team, and then decide whom to bowl, who has the best chance against the batsman. Those are the reasons I always keep in mind. It is always tough. In the last game, I didn't feel it was necessary to bowl him, and I didn't bowl him," he explained.
 
 With most top players in CSK above 30 this time, Dhoni knew the big task ahead for the team, which had been termed as the 'Dad's army." "The challenge this year was slightly different to what we faced in the past seven-eight years. The age-group of the boys was definitely a concern as we had to keep them fit because of the frequency of the games.
 
 "You have to maneuver your resources and you have to look at the bigger picture....to make sure that when we come to the business end of the tournament our best XI is available. This year we have been able to do yet, we did have some injury concerns. It's good to have our players available for selection," he beamed.
 
 Despite CSK's success this season, Dhoni is pretty aware of the perils of leading a team in which youth is at a premium. A major drawback could've been 'hiding' a few 'slouches' in the field. "Experience really counts, but it's not that it always matters. It is not something that can't be replaced. Excess of everything is bad. The good thing is we have managed with them very well. We have got quite a few good fielders in the side. 
 
 "It is good that whenever we have played we have had at least two good fielders or outstanding fielders, which can man that deep midwicket position. We have done well so far but it is something that can hurt us at any time," he cautioned.
 
 With CSK coming off a two-year ban and plenty of controversy, Dhoni confessed that he was naturally swept with emotions, but once it was 'game time' the former India captain was switched on for action. "The emotional aspect was more at the start of the tournament. Once it starts, then you have to be more professional. I was saddened that we couldn't play our home matches in Chennai but I was still happy that we played at least one match there. Our fans waited a very long time for this moment," he said.
 
 He was glad about the fact that whenever they were down, CSK found one match-winner to take them home. "In this format, it is important for individuals to come and take the match on their own. Yes, we want to contribute as a team but it is always good when an individual takes the game away from the opposition, as it makes the job of the others easy. If you start well in the tournament, it gives the batters and bowlers enough time to strengthen the areas that they need to work on. As T20 cricket is slightly different, the situation actually governs how you are playing at that point of time," he felt.
 
 Dhoni was also pleased with a refreshing trend in this IPL - the ability of the Indian pacers to hold their own in a high-pressure atmosphere. "I think every season of IPL has produced some very good domestic players. This time we've seen some very good fast bowlers, who have come and done well consistently," he lauded.
 
