CHENNAI: Legal remedies for overworked drivers are few and far for these new-age workers in a gig economy. Not being employees of taxi aggregators comes with setbacks, said union leaders.

 There have been multiple instances of drivers of   and Uber getting killed or injured while falling asleep at the wheel, or hitting commuters and pedestrians. “But in all these instances, the driver will be pulled up and held liable. The aggregator never takes the responsibility,” said A S  , state president,  .
 
 “The freelance model can benefit the aggregator and never the driver. They have already fixed their commission at 22%. They must reduce it to 7%,” said B Anbazhaghan, general secretary of   Call Taxi Owners and Drivers Association (TNCTODA). “But do we have a choice? They tell us we have volunteered for this, if we don’t like it, we can leave.”
 
 Trade union activists said with a sluggish job market, the freelance or gig economy does not give youngsters many options. “Financial stability is the biggest miss. Unlike blue-collar workers, cab drivers have no social security net, vehicle or life insurance, PF, paid leave or medical reimbursements. Drivers who are injured or get maimed on duty are left on their own,” said Kumar.
 
 TNCTODA members said this lack of a social security blanket has prompted them to ask for government intervention in the rates. “Just as the government has set the auto fares, we want regulation in cab fares and incentive pattern of taxi aggregators. We want fair labour practices. If drivers work for 12 hours a day, the government should ensure they earn between Rs 2,500 - Rs 3,000 worth of rides,” said Anbazhaghan.
 
 Drivers such as P   said the commission pattern in share rides was more taxing than normal rides. “In Ola share, for every Rs 9 charged per kilometre, we get Rs 6. With that we have to pay for diesel, vehicle repairs, insurance and EMIs. Riding share proved to be a loss-loss situation for me,” said Elumalai who switches between Ola and Uber on the same day to make ends meet.
 
 Other taxi aggregators such as   said it would be better if Ola and Uber published their rates. “Initially, they threw money around like water and drivers got loans based on the high incentives. Today, they have slashed incentives and drivers are struggling to make ends meet. Consistency in payments would help drivers,” said Srinivasan S, MD, DropTaxi.
 
 
