When the team of the upcoming Kannada film,  , dropped by the Bangalore Times office, one thing that all of them, including director  , actors  ,   and  , kept repeating was the fact that it is a story steeped in reality. Based on the events surrounding the attack on a woman at an   in Bengaluru, Attempt To Murder, chronicles the investigation into the crime, among others.

 
 Amar: Since the ATM attack was the inspiration for the story, I wrote the script keeping most of the real events intact. As I researched the subject, I realised that the perpetrator was a serial offender, so I began looking into the psyche of a psycho killer, how he would look and behave, etc.
 When we began shooting, the real culprit had not been apprehended and we planned our narrative accordingly. He was eventually arrested when we were shooting for the climax of our film, so we have taken a few cinematic liberties, which audiences will have to see in theatres.
 
 
 
 Vinay: I play an investigation officer in the film, who is looking into the case of the attack. Amar wanted the character to be as realistic as possible, so we have not taken cinematic liberties and added masala to the narrative. My body language had to be precise and my lines crisp like a police officer. Two things Amar wanted me to do were to improve my physique and pull off a chain-smoker persona. Working out to bulk up a bit was easy, but pretending to smoke was tough as I am a non-smoker.
 
 
 
 Hemalatha: I play a reporter in the film and, as Vinay mentioned, we have attempted to give the film a natural look, which reflects in our getups as well, including minimal makeup for my character. I had only some four to five shots with Vinay, but the climax revolves around characters. I feel blessed to start my filmi career with a project like this.
 
 
 
 Chandu: I play a cab driver in the film, who inadvertently gets entangled in a crime. Vinay’s character steps in and helps me get out of that.
 
 
 
 Amar: The fact that all of us are relative newbies is probably what worked in our favour. Everyone was extremely accommodating. But more importantly, we trusted each other’s judgment and worked towards making a good film.
 
 
 
 Vinay: We started off as strangers and are like one family now, so, that most definitely, will be something for all of us to cherish. But that apart, there is a sequence in the climax, during which I fight the villain. He had to hit me with a weapon, but with the force he used, it rebounded and nearly struck him on the forehead. It was truly a near miss and we are glad he did not get hurt, considering that the face is most important for an actor. Had it really him, it would have left quite a mark on his face.
 Hemalatha: Every actress wishes to look good onscreen, but my pet peeve is that Amar did not allow me to wear makeup, not even the slightest hint of it.
 
 
 
 Amar: I knew the team of Shuddhi, but not about its story, until I saw the film. I realised that they touched upon the subject. However, while they mentioned it for two minutes, my entire film revolves around the ATM attack. So, in that sense, we are very different from Shuddhi.
 
 
 
 Chandu: It is very easy to find fame and success on the small screen and I have received a lot of love from viewers because of my serial. A lot of them are supporting me about the move to the big screen. But just because I am doing films now doesn’t mean that I will stop doing Lakshmi Baramma.
 
 
 
 Amar: I will announce my next project after the release of Attempt to Murder on Friday.
 Vinay: I am yet to finalise my next. My future will depend on how this film does.
 Hemalatha: I have been getting a lot of offers in Kannada and even Tamil films, but I have told all of them that I would like my debut to release and then take a call.
 Chandu: I have three other films lined up, two of which see me as villain. Apparently, audiences prefer me as the baddie.
 
 
 
