HARIKE: Despite good response from tourists and locals, former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal’s much-hyped   project has been gathering dust since the change of guard in the state. The dual mode tourist bus is now literally stuck in the muck with overgrown hyacinth in Harike reservoir blocking the way to the ramp through which the amphibious bus begins its 45-minute water ride.

 
 Talking to the TOI on Tuesday, project manager   said, “The amphibious bus project is stalled since June 17, 2017.” The duck boat ride remained in operation for tourists for less than two weeks in June as a lot of time went into training the operative and engineering staff after its inauguration on December 12, 2016.
 
 Sources said despite good going, the project got entangled in the party politics since certain ministers in the   government didn’t want to give credit to Akalis for a successful project.
 
 “The bus service remained operational for tourists for less than two weeks and within that span of time a large number of tourists took the ride. There is no technical issue with its operations or with the amphibious bus, then why it is stalled if not the politics,” said sources.
 
 The Rs 9-crore project included 4km of pathways, nature trail, interpretation centre, tourist facilitation center and bird watch towers. The operating company charged Rs 2,000 from Amritsar and Rs 800 from Harike for the duck boat ride which remained in water for about 45 minutes.
 
 Manushi, a tourist from Rajasthan, said her cousin had taken the ride in the amphibious bus last year but she was disappointed to know that the service had now been stopped. “I am told that bus is in working condition, still I wonder why they are not operating it,” she said, adding the operating company should clearly state that it was non-operational so that tourists didn’t expect it when visiting Harike.
 
 Khushpreet Kaur, a resident of Amritsar said she had heard about the ride from her relatives and wanted to take a boat ride during the summer vacations. “I was disappointed to that boat ride has been stopped now,” she said.
 
 The TOI took the nature’s trail through which the amphibious bus covers its land part of the ride to eventually enter the Harike wildlife sanctuary through a ramp and found it covered with hyacinth overgrowth.
 
