 shot to fame with her pithy   on themes like love, migration and womanhood. The Canada-based, Indian-origin poet’s first book of poetry, Milk and Honey, sold more than 3m copies. The 25-year-old has recently come out with her second,  . She spoke to Kim Arora about her writing process

 
 
 
 I think things had been one way for a really long time and people had just accepted that. When I went up to my professor and told her, “Hey, I want to publish a book of poetry,” she was like, “Oh no! No no, how do I help you?” And then she suggested that maybe instead of a book, I could send some poems to a magazine or literary journal or something like that. That wasn’t very good, because I felt like I was taking apart the book and throwing things at different walls, hoping they would stick. I feel like it only made sense when it was put in this particular way (points to a copy of Milk and Honey) because this is a body of work. When you take the body parts and you split them and throw them, you can’t see the entire picture.
 
 
 
 
 Whenever there is something new happening, there is resistance to it. I always get asked whether this form of poetry is just a fad, and I say, only time will tell, but I hope not. I think we have really pushed it into the mainstream. There is always so much attention given to short stories, fiction, non-fiction. Poetry has been around since the beginning of humanity, so why isn’t it part of the mainstream as well? Hopefully it can be.
 
 
 
 It would be on the stage. Before I went online, I was performing. I would write a poem, go to an event and in front of 600 people, I would share the poem, put it away and never look at it again. And during the next open mic, I would write a new one and never really revisit old work. My friends were getting so upset, because they were like, “Oh my god, we love that piece. Only 600 people have heard it. You’re ridiculous! We’re gonna come with a camera, make a video and post it online.” So that’s how I entered the online space. But for me, although I love that space, the stage is my favourite place in the entire world.
 
 
 
 So much of my writing comes from the fact that I am not East or West. I’m kind of both. There was a time where I did practise writing poetry in Punjabi and I was terrible at it. It would be incredible to write in Punjabi but in order to do that I need to come and live here for five years.
 
 
 
 
 Some are really hilarious. I feel I should call these people and we should publish a book together. There should be a game where we write and somebody wins a prize if they guess which one I wrote (laughs). I think people do that because they think ten words are easy to write. But sometimes ten words are really hard to write. For example, when I am writing a poem, I will write two pages. And then I think, “How do I minimise it to the very core?”
 
 
 
 
 I thought that was really funny. I have no choice but to write about my experience as a South Asian woman, because I am a South Asian woman!
 
 
 
 Yes, but I grew up in Brampton. My school was maybe 80% South Asian. But I can’t write about the experience of all South Asian women. And one person should not be the spokesperson for South Asian women. The conversation we should be having is about how to get more women to the table so the experience of the South Asian woman is seen more truly.
 
 
 
 I love Jhumpa Lahiri. I just got the new Arundhati Roy, but I haven’t read it yet. There are a lot of South Asian poets in   that I enjoy. There’s Harman Kaur and Jasmine Kaur. They write about their experiences as brown women living in the West. All of us offer our different experiences.
 
 
 
 People have been doing this form for so long. E E Cummings was doing all lowercase before I was even born. Syrian poet Nizar Qabbani has used this bite-size form. I have never claimed that form.
 
