 board member and chief strategy officer 
 has just been elected chairman of IT industry body   for 2018-19. Keshav  , group chief executive officer of  , will be vice chairman. The two take over at a time when the $150-billion Indian IT industry is going through challenging times as it tries to navigate the new digital technologies that are changing every business around the world. Premji spoke to TOI soon after his appointment, on the industry body’s priorities. 
 :

 
 
 
 We exist to serve our 2,500-odd members and ensure we are meeting their needs and helping them prosper. Today we sit certainly at the cusp of a lot of change — the transformation that’s happening digitally in the technology space — as to how do we ensure we are able to provide a platform for companies to leverage these opportunities. The big focus for us as an industry body is the development of skills and digital talent. In the first phase of the programme, we want to reskill and upskill up to 2 million who will be able to participate and create value in the new areas.
 
 Two, how do we ensure we are able to attract a much more diverse body of members than we had in the past. When you think about Nasscom in the late 90s, it began as a body to service IT services companies. How do we become relevant for newer stakeholders is a question that is becoming very critical — be it startups, captives, engineering houses, SMEs and consumer companies. If it is the startup community, how do we ensure that we are addressing the issue of angel tax.
 
 
 
 I want to qualify that — I presume you’re talking about some of the Indian firms. The reality is Nasscom represents 2,500 members, many of them are MNCs and many are driving change at scale. The opportunities are limitless and there is a big focus on some of the newer areas by enabling companies with the right skills and the right digital tech capabilities. Many projects need closer co-location and collaboration with customers. Our member firms are increasingly hiring from campuses and building a cadre of local leaders.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 It’s important to state that legislatively nothing has changed. There has been some action administratively, but legislatively nothing has changed. Two, it’s important to recognize there is a genuine shortage of STEM talent globally, and certainly also in the US. If you read some of the statistics from the Department of Labor, there is a shortage of 2 million people out of which 50% would be computer and IT-related. It’s important to separate the sentiment from the fact. The fact is we would be consuming less than 20,000 visas in the industry that employs 7 million people in the US. It’s also important to understand that the industry works with 75% of the Fortune 500 companies. It’s also important to ensure the mobility of talent given the shortage of talent. Otherwise, it will squeeze the competitiveness, growth and opportunities for many of these enterprises creating value in terms of jobs and helping the economy grow. We are following a systematic agenda by speaking to researchers, academia, media to ensure we are a presenting a balanced, unbiased and fact-based view of what is happening.
 
 
 
 If you’re talking specifically about the Indian IT services companies, there are a couple factors — one there is a base effect over time. If you look at the industry that grew at 30% in the early 2000s, that was a function of size and scale as well. I think we are still in many ways at the early stages of opportunities and pick up on the transformation and on the digital side will create huge opportunities. The industry will bounce back to double-digit growth and I cannot predict a time, but there is an opportunity for us to get there.
 
 
 
 If you look at the buoyancy of the US economy and the buoyancy of the world economy, you have not seen this much of optimism in so many different parts of the world for a long time and that generally bodes well for enterprises inside those economies. And if they are doing well, they will spend more on areas of growth and on tech. Indian tech providers will be part gainers as well.
 
 
