NEW DELHI: Congress's showing in  , falling well short of government formation, will buoy the spirits of regional parties like  's Trinamool and K Chandrashekhar Rao's Telangana Rashtriya Samithi who have been pushing the "federal front" proposition where   is one among equals.

 
 The possibility of a federal front can also find the support of Telugu Desam Party chief and Andhra Pradesh CM N Chandrababu Naidu who has parted ways with BJP and looks ready to do business with the opposition but who will be comfortable with a less prominent profile for Congress. Other opposition parties, barring the Left, have no particular interest in seeing Congress and   at the head of a challenge to BJP and PM  .
 
 West Bengal CM Banerjee was the first to float the "federal front" concept and the idea is shared by those uncomfortable with Rahul leading the pack. The three CMs have been in close touch since Naidu quit NDA and KCR visited Kolkata. KCR has also played host to SP chief Akhilesh Yadav.
 
  
  
 A victory for Congress in Karnataka would have validated its claim to lead the "secular" alliance, putting other non-BJP parties under pressure to acquiesce in it or face criticism from secularists and Muslims for helping the PM.
 
 However, the loss on Tuesday marked a blow to Congress's claim of being the " natural" leader of a "secular" front. The speed with which Congress agreed to support former PM's Janata Dal (S) is being read as its keenness to do whatever it can to prevent BJP from gaining and other opposition leaders see this as possible leverage.
 
 Banerjee reacted as soon as Karnataka trends pointed at Congress trailing and H D Deve Gowda's JD(S) making gains. "If Congress had gone into an alliance with JDS, the result would have been different. Very different," she told the media. She congratulated Deve Gowda just before his son Kumarswamy met Karnataka governor Vajubhai Vala to stake claim with Congress support.
 
 Banerjee's arch rival, the Left, is among the biggest proponents of opposition unity, but it looked a divided house with the CPI too blaming the Congress for its failure to take the "initiative to forge secular forces' unity" because of their "over-confidence". However, CPM general secretary, Sitaram Yechury tweeted: "JD(S)-Congress are together, past the majority mark & must be called to form the govt and take the floor test #Karnataka."
 
 Regional heavyweights like SP and BSP will see Congress as a minor partner, no longer an equal of SP as in the 2017 assembly poll when Rahul and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav were hailed as "UP ke ladke". When Rahul replied to media questions in Karnataka on whether he could be PM in 2019 by saying that he "could be PM if Congress got the numbers," Banerjee was quick to refute it with a terse "he is free to give his opinion".
 
 There remain contradictions within the players who could make up the federal front as Mamata herself in unlikely to see any accommodation with the Left. The newly minted SP-BSP alliance will face further tests and NCP has made it clear it will work with Congress given the ground situation in Maharashtra. Though the federal front formula that Congress cede the fight in states where it is not the leading challenger to BJP in favour of a regional party will mean a significant loss of clout and space, the turn of events in Karnataka will encourage this line of reasoning.
 
 It has also been argued that dilution of the Congress' profile will help unhappy allies of BJP like Shiv Sena to play a greater role in criticising BJP's actions.
 
