GANDHINAGAR: Since the day he took over as chief minister for the second term,   has been facing pressure on many fronts from some of his party members. 

 After deputy chief minister   and minister of state for fisheries   showed their displeasure over the portfolio allocation, several other MLAs and leaders of various groups are demanding a larger share in the new government.
 
 Though other ministers have not expressed dissatisfaction publicly as Nitin Patel and Solanki did, the murmur of ire is beginning to build up. Several senior MLAs who were ministers or held key posts now want those powers back. Moreover, senior MLAs who have served between three and five terms as MLAs but were never made ministers are also pitching for positions of significance. 
 
 “Those who have made no contribution to the party, and whose career in the party is shorter than than my career as an MLA, have been made cabinet ministers,” said a senior MLA, who had recently met Rupani. “Senior MLAs like me have been ignored. But I will now raise my voice.”
 
 On Wednesday, a group of former Congress leaders such as C K Raulji, Ramsinh Parmar, Vipul Chaudhary, and others have who have joined the BJP met Rupani and Nitin Patel and demanded a place in the new government. Raulji said, “I have asked for fair representation, but I will accept whatever the party decides.” Congress leaders who lost on the BJP ticket in the 2017 assembly elections are pressing for positions such as parliamentary secretaries.
 
 Several BJP leaders who were appointed by the previous Rupani government to various boards, corporations, and government agencies want their terms renewed. Many senior BJP leaders who got nothing over the past several years are pushing for roles in such boards and corporations. A source close to Rupani said, “The CM has consulted the high command over the growing pressure. There may be a cabinet expansion as well as the move to appoint parliamentary secretaries, and to place people in various boards.”
 
 
