NEW DELHI: Tuesday's high-profile press conference in a Johannesburg hotel, where   (CA) CEO   announced that Australian skipper  , vice-captain   and opener   were to be sent home immediately for their involvement in the ball-tampering scandal has been met with widespread coverage in the Australian media. 

 
 
 
 
 While most of the mainstream media welcomed CA's decision to suspend the trio from the fourth Test against South Africa starting Friday, there were several questions over head coach   not cleared of having no role in the ball-tampering row. 
 
 A comment piece in today's 
  argued that the Australian cricket team must shed its win-at-all-costs mentality, while in another article the veteran sports writer Greg Baum noted how Lehmann had slipped through the noose. "For a long time, it has operated as its own retreat, a discreet unit within the Australian cricket landscape, and isolated from it. This is evident in the universal disgust of other players, ex-players and officials, all who are now outside the hermitage or never were in it. In that context, coach Darren Lehmann's position - though apparently not threatened now -will remain vexed," wrote Baum.
 
 
 
 
 In an opinion piece in today's 
 , titled 'Disgraced 'new Bradman' left to search for salvation' focused on how Smith needed someone to tell him that ball-tampering might destroy him, but that sadly there was no such figure. "Wherever you stand on this, the possibility that Smith will always be a pariah - for the orchestrated and craven nature of the offence, as much as the transgression itself - is one full of pathos and waste," wrote Paul Hayward. 
 
  
  
 
 In 
 , senior sports writer Peter Lalor analysed Smith's fall from face, writing that it was "heartbreaking - even if he does deserve everything that's coming his way, I want to hug him and say it will be all right but I know it won't". 
 
 Brisbane's 
 ran a front-page story titled 'Stench lingers as Sutherland forces world to wait' and in their sports pages was a comment piece that argued that the Australian cricket team "cannot expect the public to buy their assertion that Darren Lehmann and others new nothing of the ball tampering plan if they're not prepared to give a warts and all account of how and why that is the case". 
 
 
 
 
 In a front-page story, 
 newspaper said there had been a "fierce feud" in the dressing room sparked by Warner's alleged testimony to Cricket Australia's integrity officers, with pace spearheads   and   reportedly livid at being implicated. It said they felt he was willing to blame them to take the heat off himself, with emotions so raw that Warner may never be welcomed back.
 
 The 
 took a similar tack, claiming the other players had turned on Warner in the belief that he had attempted to "throw them under the bus". It quoted sources close to the team as saying the prominent narrative from their interviews with investigators was that the plan was devised by Warner and Bancroft and Smith agreed to it.
 
 The lead sports story in 
 was how electronics company LG was not going to continue its sponsorship of Warner.
 
