KOLKATA: Calcutta   ( ) is all set to introduce semester exams and choicebased-credit system ( ) in the undergraduate (UG) humanities and science streams. It had introduced the same in BCom last year.

 Students taking admission in CU-affiliated colleges for UG courses in the 2018-2019 academic year will be registered under the new format. These students will be evaluated under the CBCS method in examinations. Syndicate — the highest administrative decision-making body of CU — ratified the decision on Monday.
 
 
  
 Another major suggestion that was accepted by the Syndicate was to curb the “unlimited” autonomy awarded to colleges running post-graduate courses and introduce a uniform syllabus in both CU and its affiliated colleges.
 
 
 With the introduction of CBCS, students in both the streams will now be able to select a paper across several disciplines. The examination will now be based on grade points and the student scoresheet will be on a 10-point grade scale. No mark will be mentioned. Combining all semesters, an honours student has to appear for 140 credit points in three years across six semesters. In general, a student needs to appear for 120 credit points. To graduate, in six semesters an honours candidate needs to secure a CGPA of 4 and a general degree student needs to bag a CGPA of 3.
 
 
 CU vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Banerjee said students of both honours and general degree courses will be registered under the semester exam and the CBCS. “Within five years, enrolled students will have to complete the course for which he or she has taken admission. After five years, it will be determined if the candidate has successfully completed the course. Once the system is implemented, no student can be detained in semesters,” she said.
 
 
 In the new format, students will have the opportunity to review or upgrade. “In case of review, a student can demand a re-evaluation of their answer scripts and see for themselves. For upgrade or re-examination, a candidate will be allowed to reappear in any paper in which they have failed,” said a teacher.
 
 
 Pro-VC (academics) Dipak Kar added that in CBCS, students will be allotted 10 marks for attendance and 10 marks for internal assessment in each paper. “The 10 marks allotted to internal exam is to be conducted by colleges. In laboratory-based subjects, out of the remaining 80 marks, 30 marks have been allotted to practical tests and 50 to theoretical paper. In case of other subjects, 15 marks will be allotted to tutorials and the remaining 65 will be in the theory paper,” Kar said.
 
 
 The faculty council will ratify the proposed and revamped syllabus that will be placed before it from each UG department.
 
 
 It is, however, a huge challenge before CU to implement the semester system and CBCS across all the departments where as many as 2 lakh students are enrolled in 164 colleges.
 
 
