GURUGRAM:   was read only in 23 open spaces in the city on   despite the Gurugram administration issuing a list of 76 designated places where congregations could gather for prayers.

 The city remained peaceful but hundreds of people had to travel long distances to reach namaz sites as the places here Friday prayers were allowed suddenly came down to a third of what was originally announced. 
 
 At one place, where namaz was being offered inside a private building near Medanta hospital, it had to be completed hurriedly after a person started taking photographs of the proceedings. The building owner panicked and urged people gathered for prayers to leave the premises.
 
 Some members of the committee of 15  , constituted at the insistence of the Gurugram administration, claimed they had been “arm-twisted” into reducing the number of open places where namaz is read to 23. According to sources, one of the members quit the panel on Friday morning after failing to convince the administration that this huge reduction was not practical.
 
 “The administration was not willing to understand our point of view and insisted the number should come down to single digit in the days to come,” said a committee member, who did not wish to be named. “We tried to make them understand that as Ramzan is approaching, more people will come for Friday namaz and this restriction will make matters worse. It will lead to chaos and resentment among people. They have forced us to bring down the number from 76 sites to 23.”
 
 The administration, which had appointed 76 duty magistrates, one for each namaz site, to oversee security, said it had deployed all the officials to maintain peace. Deputy commissioner   and police commissioner   visited various spots to monitor the situation.
 
 “Apart from 76 duty magistrates, the police commissioner and I visited places where namaz was being read. The whole day went off peacefully, and we will continue to hold talks with all stakeholders to ensure peace and harmony. I hope things will be smooth next week as well,” Singh told TOI.
 
 The biggest congregation in the city was held at Anjuman Jama Masjid in Sector 57. “This is the biggest and only mosque in new Gurugram. Usually around 1,000 people come here every Friday for namaz which is offered two times. Today, namaz was read four times as more than 8,000 people gathered at the mosque. We deployed additional security guards and ensured that roads are not blocked,” the mosque’s caretaker told TOI.
 
 The   of the mosque instructed through loudspeakers that nobody should cause any inconvenience to people while offering namaz anywhere near the mosque. Those who gathered for were told to park their cars and bikes at designated places.
 
 “I usually attend namaz in Sector 53, which is closest to my workplace. Last Friday, when I reached there, I saw people going back. This morning, I browsed the internet looking for a mosque closest to my office and came here. I also sent the location to my friends who could not find a place to offer prayers. Whatever is happening is very unfortunate,” said Saif Syed, who lives in Delhi.
 
 “We have been reading namaz in this park for over six years now, and thankfully nobody disrupted it today,” said Haseeb Qasmi, the imam who conducts namaz near Unitech Cyberpark.
 
 Nobody turned up to offer namaz at the site near Wazirabad where right-wing   groups disrupted namaz on April 20. Saffronite outfits have asked the government to restrict the number of open namaz sites to five in the city and ensure they are not within 2km of a temple. One of their heads said they would not disrupt namaz next Friday, which will be the first Friday of Ramzan. “We will not disrupt namaz on May 18,” said  , former sarpanch of Wazirabad, who was at the forefront of the agitation.
 
 
