SALIGAO: A large number of people gathered at the   panchayat compound on Sunday for a public meeting opposing the Planning and Development Authority (PDA) and outline development plan (ODP). Organized by the Goenkarancho Ekvott in collaboration with the Pilerne Citizens Forum, the two organizations are demanding the de-notification of the Regional Plan (RP) 2021, de-notification of the PDA from all Goan villages and the incorporation of the 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendment Act in the Town and Country Planning Act, 1974.

 The meeting witnessed participation from villagers, activists and environmentalists from Candolim, Calangute, Arpora, Nagoa, and   with one common intention, the demand that the PDAs in their villages be scrapped. A large posse of police were deployed at the venue. The meeting, though, proceeded smoothly.
 
 Villagers came armed with banners bearing strong messages demanding the scrapping of the PDA and ODP for their respective villages and criticising town and country planning ( ) minister   Sardesai.
 
 Criticising the minister, Jai Damodar Association president   said that had Sardesai been a part of the opposition, Goa’s villages would not be facing this kind of a ‘catastrophic situation’.
 
 “We demand that Sardesai resign as TCP minister for not knowing how to handle his portfolio diligently,” Naik said. We are here as concerned Goans to save our state and not allow our villages to be destroyed. The TCP minister should realise that the government is of the people, for the people and by the people,” he said. He also appealed to people to assemble in large numbers on April 27 at the Lohia Maidan in Margao for another meeting voicing the people’s opposition to the inclusion of their villages in PDAs.
 
 Activist Rama Kankonkar appealed to the people to stand united and fight against such destructive planning for their villages. “Under the guise of Goenkarponn, the TCP minister is out to finish Goa. We demand an amendment to the TCP Act. People should be given power to decide about the ODP in the gram sabhas,” he said.
 
 Criticising the Goa Forward Party, Pilerne Citizens Forum president   said the ODP and PDA would only benefit outsiders and not Goans.
 
