   is breathing a little easy but knows his job is far from over.
 
  With 10 points from their last four matches, the   coach can afford to take a deep breath and even enjoy a movie on a day off. For a team that lost five matches in a row, 10 points in the next four is like manna from heaven, but Churchill Brothers will be in the red again – quite literally – if they return to the form that gave them sleepless nights at the start of the season.
  
  “It’s much better now. The confidence is quite high, and when you have a team as confident as we are, anything is possible,” said the Churchill Brothers coach.
  
  The next target for Churchill Brothers is to take full points from their clash against debutants   at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Tuesday. Neroca may be debutants and Churchill may be high on confidence, but it won’t be easy, certainly not when their rivals are title aspirants who are determined to claw their way back after two defeats in a row.
  
  “The say a wounded lion is the most dangerous. Neroca will be seething in anger that their (title) campaign got derailed in the last couple of matches. They will be determined to make amends. We have to be ready,” said Alfred.
  
  Churchill’s preparations for this crucial   clash was hampered by niggles to several players, including Nigerian midfielder Ogba Kalu and Ivory Coast striker Koffi Mechac. The niggles are not strong enough to rule them out of the match and 24 hours before the clash, Alfred remained optimistic.
  
  Churchill have watched Neroca’s videos for the last three games, and even though they lost two of them, left nobody in doubt that they are as good as anyone else in business. There are, Alfred says, stronger teams like East Bengal and Mohun Bagan, at least on paper, but Neroca’s wing-play and aerial in the opponent’s box makes them dangerous.
  
  “it’s a must-win game. There is pressure on us. If we lose three matches continuously, then it is not good for the future. But we need to go on. We want to win and we will work hard for three points or maybe one point,” said Neroca coach Gift Raikhan.
  
  Neroca suffered consecutive defeats against Shillong Lajong (0-2) and Minerva Punjab FC (0-1) with both losses at home in front of their own supporters. Like Alfred said, the lion is wounded, but nobody needs to be reminded what a wounded lion can do.
