Hyderabad:  , India's best bet at the  , stands a chance of becoming the world No. 1 this weekend.

 
 
 The world No. 3 shuttler came within striking distance of becoming the No.1 last year before injury had forced him to pull out of the China Open in November last.
 
 
 
 
 
 The 24-year-old, who won four Super Series titles, can become the world No. 1 if he wins the All England Championships on Sunday.
 
 
 
 
 
 The withdrawal of world No. 1 Viktor Axelsen from All England makes it easier for Srikanth. A quarterfinal entry will also do for Srikanth to become No. 1, provided  , Chen Long and Son Wan Ho don't do well.
 
 Srikanth has 75695 ranking points, 3885 behind Axelsen and 1229 points behind No. 2 Lee Chong Wei.
 
 Last year Srikanth won the Indonesia Open, Australian Open, Denmark Open and French Open titles and is the only the fourth shuttler in the world to achieve this feat.
 
 A favourable draw at the All England, beginning on Wednesday, boosts Srikanth’s chances. The Indian may face his first major challenge in the semifinals where he may run into Lee Chong or Lin Dan. The veterans, who are in the twilight of their careers, have not been consistent in the last two years.
 
 Srikanth, however, said it’s not an easy draw.
 
 “At an event like All England you can't discount anyone. Rajiv (Ouseph) whom I may play in the second round plays very well in England. Even Lin Dan and Chong Wei raise their game by a few notches in big tournaments. So nothing will be easy,” Srikanth said.
 
 But the Guntur lad was satisfied with his preparation. “We got four weeks time and the preparation has been good. We have worked very hard and I am hoping for the best,” Srikanth said.
 
 “Thankfully, I have recovered from injury and I’m in good shape. To be frank we can't estimate our fitness until we play a few matches,” he added.
 
 He also said that he was only thinking so far as the first match against Brice Leverdez. "Since we’ve been on the circuit for the last few years, we know how they play. So we plan strategy only the day before," he said.
 
 This could be Srikanth's best chance to win the title and he thinks so too. “I think this could be my year. I have played well last year and I am hopeful of doing well at Birmingham,” he said.
 
 “Last year I won on fast courts as well as slow courts. So, court conditions may not affect me. It all depends on how good I am on that particular day,” Srikanth added.
 
 
