UDAIPUR: The four-day international conference organized by the Brahma Kumaris at their headquarters in   concluded on Monday. Eminent speakers stressed on the importance of spiritual empowerment that they claimed was the only way to bring peace, happiness and health in the world.

 During the four days, over 200 speakers from across the globe participated in various sessions that were attended by around 10,000 participants from several countries, including Japan,  , UK, Indonesia and Nepal, among others. 
 
 At the valedictory session of the conference on Monday, participants pledged to contribute to change the world by bringing about transformation in themselves.
 
 Speaking during the valedictory session, Lok Sabha MP from Sant Kabir Nagar (Uttar Pradesh) Sharad Tripathi said that after visiting the Shantivan campus of the Brahma Kumaris, he realized that inner change was essential to bring a change outside. If all those attending the conference adopted in their lives what they have learnt here, world peace would not be far, Tripathi said. Vice-chancellor of Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya Dr Narendra Dakhad said that ‘Rajyoga’ was an inner journey that was necessary to achieve success in any field. Inga Koryagina, deputy chair of management on public relations and international relations of Plekhanov Russian University of Economics, Moscow, said the Brahma Kumaris was doing a laudable job of taking India’s rich culture to every corner of the world. Everyone needs spiritual knowledge, she said. 
 
 Mariia Pobedinskaia, a psychologist from Russia, said it was necessary to understand the minds of children and ignoring their feelings could lead to stressful situations in future, which in turn hindered their inculcation of positive qualities.
 
 Among others who spoke during the event, Mohammed Yaqub from Gandhi Peace Foundation, Jammu and Kashmir, said that he had learnt lessons in peace, harmony, respect and cleanliness from the Brahma Kumaris and these lessons would end hatred. Prof.  , editor-in-chief of International Journal of Yoga Therapy, Boston, USA, said, most diseases could be cured by practicing Rajyoga meditation, which creates positive energy in the brain. 
 
 B K Denise Lawrence, a former BBC journalist, stunned the audience by speaking in Hindi on various aspects of spiritual knowledge. She said, Rajyoga meditation was simply loving remembrance of God, and it provided one knowledge about time, the complete history of the world, and the law of karma.
 
 Ex-MP Suresh Chandel, Richi Garg, MD of Punjab Plus Channel, Chandigarh, and N N Ramakrishnan, MD of Nakkubetta TV, were among the others who addressed the audience.
 
 
