GUNTUR:   leaders have literally turned the city into a sea of blue and green with massive flexes, posters and party flags. The YSRC chief is expected to enter the city on Monday night as part if his padayatra.

  will also address a public gathering at Maya Bazar Junction in Guntur East constituency on Tuesday. Guntur East legislator Mohammed Mustafa took out a bike rally through important junctions of the constituency on Monday. 
 
 He appealed the people to participate in the padayatra in huge numbers. He said Jagan would walk through Chuttu Gunta Centre, Sampath Nagar, Ramanama Kshetram, Nallacheruvu, Three Statues Centre, Etukuru Road, Kanyakaparameswari Temple, Patnam Bazar and Jinnah Tower before reaching Maya Bazar Junction to address the public gathering.
 
 Mustafa said the padayatra would be continued after the public meeting. For which the route will be via NTR statue, BR Stadium, Ponnur Road. Mustafa said Jagan will interact with the people from diarrhoea-hit colonies in Anand Pet, Sangadigunta during his day-long tour of the city. The MLA explained that Jagan’s yatra aims at learning about the grievances of the people and not demonstrating party strength. He asked the local police to cooperate with them in completing the yatra without any trouble.
 
 The youth leaders and veteran leaders have set up banners and flexes wherever they found space on the walls and hoardings. Senior   leader and   leader Padarthi Ramesh Gandhi will be seen extending support to the YSRC chief’s programme.
 
 Meanwhile, Guntur city police are readying plans to divert traffic during the padayatra in the city as the Opposition leader has decided to move through main thoroughfares. The public meeting at Maya Bazar Junction is likely to hit traffic on the main roads as it will go on for at least two to three hours. All the APSRTC buses moving towards Hyderabad, Tirupati and Kurnool will be diverted via the national highway from Nandivelugu Road between 2 pm to 6 pm to avoid traffic chaos. Similarly, other vehicles will be routed through alternative roads from NTR Statue Centre. 
 
 
