Belpahari: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee cited the Rs 11,300 crore fraud at Punjab National Bank to buttress her argument against the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance (FRDI) Bill that proposes “bail in” clauses if a bank suffers heavy losses. 

 The West Bengal CM once again wrote to Union finance minister Arun Jaitley on Thursday with a request to scrap the bill.
 
 “All your bank deposits have become unsafe. I had written to the Union finance minister earlier. He didn’t respond. Later, the minister of state wrote to me saying the legislation won’t affect depositors. Now, see what has happened in PNB. Who took away this Rs 11,500 crore, and who all sanctioned the loan?” the CM said at a public meeting held at Jangalmahal’s Belpahari.
 
 Banerjee then shifted to agriculture and farm loans that are close to the heart of farmers who had turned out in large numbers. “As many as 12,000 farmers killed themselves, with the highest numbers coming from BJP-ruled Maharashtra. There has been a sharp drop in their income following demonetisation and imposition of GST. The Centre has stopped kerosene supply through public distribution system and has been raising cooking gas prices. It has discontinued projects such as ICDS and ASHA while the state is running the projects on its own,” she said in a bid to insulate Jangalmahal from the political influence of neighbouring BJP-ruled Jharkhand when the saffron party has made dents in some pockets.
 
 The CM then listed development projects taken up for the people of the area. They include a new university for Jhargram. Then she made a direct appeal to voters. “With panchayat elections around the corner, CPM, Congress and BJP will come to you and ask for votes. Don’t vote for them because if you do, then all our projects — Kanyashree, Sabuj Sathi, Rupashree — will come to a halt,” she said.
 
 The CM added: “We have taken up your cause from Day 1. Over 350 former Maoists came to me days ago. They are now home guards.” 
 
 The repeated requests to people against paying heed to others appeared not without reason. The state has got inputs that some forces are at work against the government.
 
 Police fear accused former IPS officer Bharati Ghosh enjoys a rapport with surrendered Maoists who still heed her words. Some of them are trying to fan Adivasi emotions, whether Kurmi or Santhal. 
 
 “We have adopted a Cabinet resolution giving no objection to granting ST status for kurmis in Bengal,” the CM said, passing the ball to the Centre’s court.
 
 
