JAIPUR: The   (JDA) has shelved the indoor   arena project at Organized Archery, Shooting and Equestrian Sports (OASES) complex,   as the project remains out of priority list. 

 The project will remain incomplete for a while as the JDA is now mulling over a proposal to take up the project under   (PPP) mode. The JDA had recently asked permission from the state government to complete the project. However, permission was denied and JDA cancelled the tenders.
 
 A senior JDA official said, “The JDA had invited tenders for the project. But the financial bid was not opened as only one firm participated to take up the work. The permission to invite the tenders was asked again from the state government, however, it was not granted as government is considering to give project under PPP or built operate transfer mode.”
 
 Since 2013, the OASES project, which was meant to give a boost to the heritage sports of   and nurture budding talent, is being ignored . With over Rs 80 crore of public money spent on the project, only 25% of the work remains to be completed. However, in the past six years the work remained suspended. 
 
 An official informed, that the JDA had proposed to lay the OASES complex roof of aircraft aluminium sheet metal, which is considered to be long-lasting. “A 45-metre wide and 90-metre long area was proposed to be covered by the roof. Under the roof, games such as shooting, indoor polo and archery could be played,” said an official.
 
 Besides, JDA proposed to develop seating for 1,300 spectators. The estimated cost to complete the project is Rs 60 crore. “Earlier, JDA had spent Rs 28.50 crore. The remaining 31.50 crore will now be spent by the civic body. Last, Rs 10 crore had been sanctioned by JDA to lay the roof, however the project is put on hold,” added the official.
 
 Sources further said, the JDA is planning to remodel the project. “During summers, the temperature crosses 45 degrees Celsius in Jaipur. The climate is not suitable for horses and can make them sick. JDA had proposed to shelve the project and develop a club house in the area.”
 
 
