In April last year, an ambush attack by Naxalite militants on the   patrolling party in Chattisgarh’s   claimed the lives of 25 CRPF personnel. Barely days after what was described as the worst   in years, cricketer   announced that he will bear the cost of the education of the slain CRPF men’s children. Families of four of those martyrs – InspectorRaghubir Singh, ASI Sanjay Kumar, and Head Constables Banna Ram and Ram Mehar Sandhu – finally met the cricketer and his family over dinner, organized by the Gautam Gambhir Foundation, at a city hotel recently. Even though Gambhir has been financing the education of the children of all these families, this was the first time any of them were meeting the Delhi batsman in person. And naturally, they were all pretty excited to meet him. Ajay, son of late Head Constable Banna Ram, said, “I cannot describe this in words. He has done so much for us and to meet him in person is great.”

 
  Family members of late Inspector Raghubir Singh, commander of the CRPF company that was attacked in Sukma, present a gift and memento to Gambhir
 
  Gambhir and his family interacted with the martyrs’ families for over an hour before dinner. The conversation topics ranged from Gambhir asking the kids about their studies – and those who had just finished their Class XII exams, about their future plans – to discussions on cricket. Rohit, son of late Head Constable Ram Mehar Sandhu, told Gambhir, “My father was a huge fan of yours and always watched when you and (Virender)   opened the batting for India. He would be so happy to know that his family has had the chance of meeting you.” Gambhir was quite moved by the meeting. “Obviously, it’s very emotional because you meet people who lost their dear ones and you try to spread as much happiness as you can,” he said.
 
  
  Gambhir with the family of late Head Constable Ram Mehar Sandhu 
 
  The cricketer even invited the families to Delhi’s next IPL game. “Obviously, it is very tough what they have gone through, but whatever little enjoyment you can give them, you try and do that, and support them as much as you can,” said Gambhir.
  
  Gambhir’s mother Seema and wife Natasha 
 
  The meeting came barely two days after Gambhir stepped down as the captain of the Delhi team in the ongoing  , but the batsman deftly left questions and queries related to IPL alone. As Gambhir invited all the families to watch the match, a fan said, “We will come if you promise to play and win.” Gambhir, true to his quiet self, simply smiled and replied, “You come, watch a good game of cricket, and cheer for Delhi.”
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
