HYDERABAD: Turrebaz Khan, popularly known as  , who led an armed attack against the British Residency in Hyderabad on July 17, 1857, was neglected on his martyrdom day on Wednesday.

 He was killed and his body hung in public on January 24, 1859, to deter people against taking up armed revolt against the British in Hyderabad.
 
 Only a handful of people gathered at the memorial erected near Koti bus station in honour of the freedom fighter, who fought against the British in India’s first war of Independence, to pay tributes to Turrebaz Khan, one of Hyderabad’s first freedom fighters. No official from the state government or political leader had turned up at the memorial to pay respects to Turrum Khan, on his 159th martyrdom day.
 
 The memorial was whitewashed by civic authorities on Wednesday not to commemorate his martyrdom, but to prepare the area for flag hoisting on Republic Day on Friday.
 
 “There is a flag post in the vicinity. The memorial was whitewashed ahead of Republic Day and not to remember the martyr. Had sprucing up of the memorial was for Turrebaz Khan and his followers, who laid down their lives for the cause of the nation, officials would have taken up the painting work a couple of days before the martyrdom day,” said  , a social activist. Harith was among the group of a dozen people, who paid homage to the freedom fighter.
 
 Historian and author   said that Turrebaz Khan had become a legend in Telugu states and in fact in several parts of India. His nickname Turrum Khan has become synonymous with valour, courage and sacrifice. While other freedom fighters fought only against the British, Khan had to face both British and Nizam forces.
 
 Turrebaz Khan along with   led an armed struggle against the British on July 17, 1857, with a group of 500 people. He was caught on July 22, 1857, and sentenced to the cellular prison in Andaman  . However, he managed to escape from the prison on January 18, 1859, and was preparing for another armed attack. The government announced a reward of Rs 5,000 on his head. He was killed on January 24, 1859, and his body was hung in front of the present-day Sultan Bazaar police station, Naseer Ahmad said.
 
 Syed Jeelani Pairak, who served as a member of the  , said that the seeds of freedom struggle against the British were sowed in Hyderabad way back in 1818 when Noorul Umra Bahadur revolted. Later, Prince   and Ghulam Rasheed Khan led the rebellion in 1840 leading to the Turrebaz attack in 1857.
 
 
