INDORE: Priceless dinosaur eggs and fossilized tree trunks that tell tales of the era hardly sees find any enthusiastic visitor. The 6.5crore-year-old fossils excavated from   basin, lie desolate and forgotten, at the Adhmeadha fossilarium, built in 2000s as an attempt to bring people closer to the rich geological past of the  , where dinosaurs once roamed freely. 

 The fossilarium in   that houses rare fossils in the form of tree trunk, sea shells, star fish skeletons, teeth and bones, dinosaur eggs gets no visitors during the off season of   tourism and attracts barely 80 to 100 people per month during the monsoons, who come mostly to view the scenic valley beyond. The fossilarium, which was developed between 2009 and 2011 by Dhar administration, was handed over to Nalchha janpad panchayat after 2011. It was also being looked over by geological experts, who work at   in Dhar. 
 
 However, the fossilarium which has precious fossils is neither well-guarded nor well maintained. "A month ago, the fossil park has been handed over to tourism department. We had forwarded the idea of promoting the fossilarium as well, but no activities have been planned or suggested for that place currently. We are also planning to appoint a full time guide, who has knowledge about geology,"   DK   said. There are no descriptions on most of the fossils inside the building and those, which are there, are either faded or torn. The artistic installation set up to explain the shift in the landscape is simply gathering dust. The fossils, which were used to explain the process, are also now gone. Along the entrance, there are tree fossils, which do not have an English description, making it difficult for visitors with no knowledge of Hindi to understand what they are. 
 
 As an attraction, two gigantic sized sculptures of dinosaurs and their eggs were constructed at open area of the park. However, the egg-like structures, which also have some fossils kept on display, have been shut and locked since many years. The garden is unkempt with weed growing at many places and the staff includes only two security personnel, who guard the spot from thieves and cattle who may venture inside. The only hope for the park is from tourism department, which is busy preparing for the Mandu festival, scheduled in last week of March.
 
 
