KOCHI: Devotees of the Chandrashekharapuram temple near here who went home with cans of ‘irattipayasam’, the temple’s prasadam this festive season, were surprised to find a second wrapper with St Mary’s picture under the image of Lord Shiva.

 The ‘irattipayasam’ cans of the Muppathadom Sree Chandrashekharapuram Shiva Temple, known for its secular nature, traditionally bear the image of Lord Shiva.
 
 While some devotees expressed their angst over the ‘fraud’ many viewed it as a warm remainder about the secular nature of the temple.
 
 “Devotees should realize this fraud in the guise of religion!” said a   user posted the can with two labels. But some responded asking him to see things in a secular light.
 
 “This is the real manna. This is not fraud but love,” said a Facebook commentator. “At least now people should realize that the Gods are all one and the same,” another response read.
 
 The temple claims 125 years of heritage and is open to all those who believe in God, irrespective of religion. The ‘irattipayasam’ of the temple is usually given to devotees as prasadam after a ritual blessing.
 
 K  , secretary, temple trust, said they used to mix the blessed   with the mass produced payasam before packing.
 
 “This year we had prepared 1,500 cans of payasam on our own. However it got spoiled and we had to dispose of the entire batch,” said Padmanabhan.
 
 The temple authorities then approached an agent who supplies canned prasadam for temples and churches to provide them with the payasam.
 
 “They told us that they can only provide us with leftover cans from other establishments at such short notice. The wrappers of our temple were pasted on top of it as we were in a hurry to provide the prasadam to the devotees during the festival. It was a calculated risk, but many had questioned us over the same as well,” said Padmanabhan.
 
 The officials said the temple trust is secular and the mixing up of images is not a major issue for those who believe in the Lord.
 
 “We even have two Christians and a Muslim in our governing trust. Such minor hiccups wouldn’t affect the bonds between devotees. It will only double the love among various communities in the area, just like the Irattimaduram (double sweetness), our prasadam offers,” said Padmanabhan.
 
 
