Mumbai: Stickiness to a job, mostly among  , has declined over the last five years. This is specifically in roles such as  ,   and  .

 A study by talent acquisition startup   found most software engineers quit within two years of working at a company. This number was 58% in 2016 as compared to 44% in 2013. The number of people exiting their jobs within one year has also gone up from 20% to 27% for the same period. The percentage of software engineers spending more than four years at a company went down to 14% in 2016 from an average of 23% in 2013.
 
 On the other hand, data scientist has emerged as one of the most difficult positions to fill. There are only eight data scientists for every 10 jobs in India, tilting the market significantly in the candidate’s favour. The study found that 70% of data scientists quit within two years of working with an organisation, up from 44% in 2013. Of the data scientists who quit in 2016, only 9% had spent over four years at their last workplace, down from 26% in 2014.
 
 Another hard-to-hire role is product management. The study found that 61% of product managers leave their jobs after two years of work.
 
 The study, which has been shared exclusively with TOI, looked at the average tenure of people for roles such as data scientists, software engineers and product managers. Of the entire data set analysed, more than 70% fell in the age bracket of 23-40, qualifying as millennials, also called ‘Gen Y’ or ‘echo boomers’. Belong said factors like globalisation, rise of dual-income families, socio-economic shifts and the technological revolution have resulted in a massive shift in people’s expectations from their careers and jobs.
 
 Mphasis global head (talent acquisition) Venkatesh Radhakrishnan said companies need to re-look at their purpose, culture and values towards attracting millennials. “Companies should create a catalogue of opportunities and meet the learning objective of each group to retain them,” said Radhakrishnan.
 
 One of the key reasons any employee stays loyal to a company is the impact they create on building the organisation and its culture.   head (people operations) Anuradha Bharat said the firm provides organic growth opportunities to its employees. “Whenever an employee approaches us showing interest in new roles and responsibilities, we ensure that they get trained on the job and clear the path for them to move internally. This creates an atmosphere where people understand that their personal growth and Razorpay’s growth are interlinked. We have people who joined us as freshers, as developers, and are now mentors, leading critical teams,” said Bharat.
 
  director (HR) Radha Shreeniwas said hiring and retaining talent in technical roles goes beyond negotiating a competitive salary. “Over the years, we’ve seen that candidates are extremely motivated to experiment, work on challenging problems and build something new,” said Shreeniwas. 
 
 While job transitions are inevitable, Shreeniwas said LinkedIn practices a culture of transformation to give employees the opportunity to display strong leadership, build teams and transform their careers.
 
 Belong content strategist Mohita Nagpal said internet firms had the youngest engineers with an average age of 28 years, followed by IT-enabled services (ITeS) with an average of 29 years and computer software with an average age of 32 years. “Typically, the career path for a software engineer is pretty straightforward. If she worked with an ITeS company, her next move will be either another ITeS company or a computer software company. If she was working with a computer software company, her next move would be another computer software company or an internet company. If she was working with an internet company, her next move would be to work for a bigger internet company like Flipkart or Ola,” said Nagpal.
 
 Nearly 77% of data scientists in India work in either internet, computer software or ITeS sectors. Similarly, more than 70% of software product managers work in either ITeS, computer software or internet companies.
 
 
