NEW DELHI: There still is   at  , where a fire at the chemical market killed 57 two decades ago. A resident of the area, Mohammad Nafis, has since been fighting to set up a   in the Walled City, with people of the locality pointing out that the nearest fire station is on  . It takes a good 30 minutes for   to reach any spot in the   from that location.

 Nafis and other residents have been demanding that the fire department place a fire engine near the Hauz Qazi police station at Chawri Bazar. This could help the firemen reach a blaze much faster than if they had to negotiate the narrow lanes, crammed with traffic and impeded by power lines dangling low. According to police and fire officials, more than 8,000 goods vehicle are parked daily on the roads here, leaving space only enough for e-rickshaws and motorcycles, and in such circumstances, permanently siting a fire engine there would aggravate the mess.
 
 “In the 1999 chemical market fire, most of the victims died because help could not reach them in time,” said Nafis, who runs an NGO that has been highlighting the need for smooth fire access in the Walled City. “At the moment, summoning an ambulance to areas like Kucha Pandit and Lal Kuan and having a patient evacuated to hospital takes about an hour. I have been meeting the fire chief, district police chiefs, MLAs and MPs since 2008 but nothing has moved.”
 
 Afzal Ahmed Khan, who runs a coaching unit and supports Nafis in his attempt to have a fire station located in the vicinity, said, “We talked to the local MLA about the problem in 2005. In 2006, the fire department told him that it couldn’t find space to station a fire engine there.”
 
 Nafis said that the Delhi Fire Service now had specialised equipment that could be stationed in the vicinity to prevent a tragedy like last Saturday’s fire in Bawana that claimed 17 lives. Chief fire officer Atul Garg disclosed that a feasibility study on the demand had been conducted in 2012 and two fire stations were constructed near Chandi Chowk. “We have divided the operational areas for the fire engines,” Garg said. “However, a major problems the residents need to tackle is parked goods vehicles obstructing passage.”
 
 The fire department said cases are on the rise. “We have been warning people about the hazards of exposed power cables and illegal industrial units running in residential buildings,” said a fire officer.
 
 
