GURUGRAM: Construction work inside   is continuing, even after repeated complaints by environmentalists and wildlife activists. 

 When TOI visited Ankhir in the Aravalis, a 300m-long boundary   — starting from Badkhal-Surajkund road and heading into the forest region near Gopal Gaushala — was being constructed. 
 
 On being questioned, the locals said the construction has been going on for a month. They claimed the wall was being built as boundary for an illegal land grab, one of many in the area. The encroacher was having the wall built to establish their ownership over the plot. Similar illegal activities have been going on in the area for a long time. Apparently, the encroachers have become so emboldened now that they are carrying out construction right under the nose of authorities, in broad daylight,” said a local requesting anonymity. 
 
 Environmental analyst Chetan Agarwal, who had filed a complaint with the forest department in December 27, and met them on January 17, appealed to officials to intervene immediately and stop construction. “While driving on this road, I noticed a wall being built between   and Gopal Gaushala. You are requested to kindly prevent any further construction, remove the walls and restore the forests for free movement of wildlife,” reads Agarwal’s letter to the department.
 
 As the area comes under sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab and Haryana Land Protection Act (PLPA) 1990, any construction is considered “non-forest activity” and violates the Forest Conservation Act.
 
 Environmentalists alleged such violations clearly show the failure of the forest department. 
 
 “Illegal activities have become rampant in the Aravalis in the past 3-4 months. And this is all due to lack of patrolling or action against violators by forest department in the past. We have been filing multiple complaints with the department and police, but no one pays heed,” said   of NGO Save Aravalis.
 
 Talking about rampant encroachment in the Ankhir area, Bhadana said, “I have been filing RTIs to demand information on the status of construction going on in Ankhir. However, I didn’t get any response, despite several appeals. It shows there’s a clear nexus between the authorities and the land mafia. Any encroachment in this area not only leads to loss of green cover, but also loss of wildlife habitat, which leads to man-animal conflict.” 
 
 A forest official said, “We could not inspect the area earlier, but will visit it on Monday to take strict action against encroachers.” However, they were unavailable all day on Monday for an update.
 
 
