NEW DELHI: After   president  's mocking tweet about the Narendra Modi app allegedly sharing users' data with the PM's "friends in American companies", the  's   tweeted in a similar vein today about data from users of the Congress web site being shared with the party's "friends in Singapore". 

 
 The tweet Malviya responded to today was the Congress president's, from Sunday: 
 
 "Hi! My name is Narendra Modi. I am India's Prime Minister. When you sign up for my official App, I give all your data to my friends in American companies."
 
 Rahul was referring to a French cybersecurity researcher's recent allegation that the Narendra Modi app shares registered users' data with a US-based behavioural analytics company.
 
  
  
 Malviya responded - in near identical language - with a screenshot of unexplained numbers and IP addresses.
 
  
  
 
 In subsequent tweets, he cited bits from the Congress web site's privacy policy. 
 
 The bit Malviya highlighted from the Congress party's privacy policy when using its website, says: "For making the use of Website effective and resourceful   may share your information with vendors, consultants, and other service providers or volunteers who are engaged by or working with us and who need access to such information to carry out their work for us; with candidates, organizations, groups or causes that we believe have similar political viewpoints, principles or objectives".
 
 The remaining portion of that paragraph not highlighted about the Congress's privacy policy says: "...when you give us your consent to do so, including if we notify you on the Website, that the information you provide will be shared in a particular manner and you provide such information; when we believe in good faith that we are required to do so by law, court order, as requested by other government or law enforcement authority..."
 
 Malviya said that "implications are grave" about the part of the Congress's privacy policy about sharing users'' information "with candidates, organizations, groups or causes that we believe have similar political viewpoints, principles or objectives".
 
  
  
 
 The BJP leader said those with viewpoints similar to the Congress could mean, "Maoists, stone pelters, Bharat Ke Tukde Gang, Chinese embassy to globally 'renowned' orgs like  , the field is extensive and wide open."
 
  
  
 
 Malviya then again alleged the Congress has links with disgraced data analytics firm Cambridge Analytica which illegally mined 50 million US users' data without their permission.
 
  
  
 
 About the  , the BJP said yesterday that app users' data was only being used for "analytics".
 
 "Contrary to Rahul's lies, fact is that data is being used for only analytics using third party service, similar to Google Analytics. Analytics on the user data is done for offering users the most contextual content."
 
 On Friday evening, '#DeleteNaMoApp' was among the top Twitter trends nationally, with Congress members putting their weight behind the hashtag.
 
 
 
 
 
 
