KOCHI: All   should have a say in appointing lawyers as judges instead of the present system of a few   making the decision,   said.

 “The government should bring in a legislation to constitute a body of judicial experts to make appointments and no representative of the government should be present in such a body. There should be a unanimous view in that body. If there are five members, a candidate should be selected only if all of them unanimously approve that he is good. If the present system of   is continued, at least a wider consultation among all the judges is required for improvement from the present situation. It is a practice that can be easily adopted by the present collegium system and they can have a consultation with the other judges with regard to appointment of judges from lawyers,” Justice Pasha told TOI.
 
 The judge who retired from service on Thursday said there was no need for secrecy in the process of appointment of lawyers as high court judges. “What is the need to keep it secret? The collegium should ask other judges as to how each candidate is. There is nothing wrong in such consultation and it is good for the system,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 However, he said the collegium system of appointing judges was the best so far. “If the government brings in a system and persons nominated by it are included in the sytem to protect its interests, it would reflect in the selection. It cannot be allowed as judiciary is an independent machinery; it should have no relationship with the executive in the matter of selection of judges… Collegium is the best system at present for selecting judges. A better system should come. An independent body comprising of judicial experts should be formed and legislation should be made for it. It is for the government to do so,” he said.
 
 Justice Pasha said the practice in some developed nations of conducting elections within the bar cannot be adopted here. “The circumstances and culture of people in the US and here are different. There, they don’t teach children to lie right from their childhood whereas our culture here is different and our people do not grow up like that. If we go by the majority decision, we will be forced to appoint a bad person if the majority decides to choose him,” he said.
 
 The untimely or midterm shifting of jurisdiction of judges without adequate reason brings bad reputation to the high court, he said. “I have a grievance that the Bar here is not reacting enough. The sense of reaction of us Malayalis is not so. We react to each and everything. But unfortunately, the Bar is not interfering in any untoward incidents here. They should do so and they should become the corrective force for the judiciary,” he added.
 
 
