Chandigarh: The Union ministry of women and child development has selected Punjab for Nari Shakti Puraskar 2017 for demonstrating improvement in sex ratio at birth under the central government’s flagship scheme Beti Bachao Beti Padhao (BBBP).

 Razia Sultana, Punjab’s social security and women and child development minister, will receive the award from the President of India at Rashtrapati Bhawan on Thursday on the occasion of International Women’s Day.
 
 BBBP scheme was launched on January 22, 2015, from Panipat in 100 districts across the country having adverse child sex ratio. Out of the 100 selected districts, 11 were from Punjab. These districts were Amritsar, Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur, Mansa, Muktsar, Patiala, Sangrur, Mohali and Tarn Taran.
 
 The main goal of the scheme is to celebrate the girl child, prevent gender-biased sex selective elimination and facilitate her education.
 
 Tarn Taran district has now been selected for facilitation by the central government on the third anniversary of the BBBP scheme for remarkable outreach activities and new initiatives, said the minister.
 
 Sultana said nine more districts of Punjab have also been covered in the recent past. These are Faridkot, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Moga, Ropar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Jalandhar and Nawanshahr, taking the total number of districts covered under BBBP scheme to 20.
 
 The minister said under the BBBP scheme, the department of social security and women and child development had launched a crusade to improve the sex ratio at birth in close coordination with the health and education department. During the campaign, people are being sensitised at the grassroots in every village through group discussion, one-to-one counselling, sensitization and orientation of stakeholders and community members with the help of opinion leaders and local sports champion.
 
 Sultana said necessary instructions have also been issued to other districts to emulate the good practices which were adopted by Tarn Taran district so as to achieve better results in improving sex ratio at birth and make Punjab proud of being a ‘vibrant women power’.
 
 
