Nagpur: For Std X CBSE students, Wednesday afternoon was supposed to be the one that heralded in freedom as the last major exam ended with maths paper.

 For many, it also meant a time to start packing bags for a long vacation. But the board’s decision to reconduct two exams meant a crash landing of all the travel plans.
 
 Ashwini Chopra, a parent, recounts the planning that had gone for a trip that was to start on Friday. “Almost all the packing was done and today we were to celebrate the end of exams with a party. But neither of the two is happening now. The monetary loss is just one aspect of it as now even the holiday mood has been lost. This is entirely CBSE’s fault,” said Chopra.
 
 Anmol Badjatia, principal of Jain International School, said, “Some of our students have plans to travel abroad but now because of the re-exam, everything will get affected.”
 
 Students too expressed anguish over their holiday schedule going haywire. Aaditya Kirathkar, a student, said, “I have travel plans with my group from for camping from second week of April. Our tickets and other arrangements have all be done.”
 
 “If the exam is conducted before that, then it won’t create a problem. But if the exam is conducted in the second week of April, then we will have to cancel all the plans and we are not aware if the price of tickets would be refundable,” he added. 
 
 Maithili Paranjpe said, “Our family was going for holidays to Ganpatipule (in Konkan) and the hotel booking was done. I feel bad that just because of me, my family has to wait for the vacation.”
 
 Tannu Sharma said, “We had planned to go to Haryana on and all the bookings are done. Now, we are just hoping that the board conducts the exam sooner than our departure date so that we won’t have to cancel or postpone.”
 
 Ishita Subramanyam said, “I had some travel plans to visit my hometown as I have not been there for two years, but now it will have to wait for some more time.”
 
 Mohit Makhija was looking forward to his cousin’s wedding in Pune, but now that trip is on hold. “I hope the exam is held as early as possible so that everyone can stick to their travel schedule,” he said.
 
 
