MYSURU: For the past two decades, the   has remained a   bastion. However, retaining this citadel might not be as easy for the Congress in the assembly elections this time round. Social Democratic Party of India ( ), which is intent on making its presence felt in Karnataka, has emerged as the strongest challenger to the ruling party in the segment.

 Five years ago, SDPI contested its first elections in the state, despite which the party still managed to come in second in the NR constituency polling close to 30,000 votes, ahead of both the JD(S) and the  . The election result indicated that majority of the Muslim voters had gone with the new entrant five years ago.
 
 
  
  
 
 Muslims constitute nearly 50% of the electorate of  , which, barring two terms, has been represented by a member of the Sait family for the past five decades. While Mukhtar Unnisa Begum won the seat in 1985, when   contested the Lok Sabha election in Dharwad, BJP’s Maruthi Rao Pawar defeated Azeez Sait in 1994, when he contested as an independent candidate.
 
 Moreover, things are looking far from perfect for the Congress in NR segment, where the party workers openly expressed their dissatisfaction with incumbent MLA and cabinet minister  , and demanded a new face.
 
 Tanveer evinced his interest in contesting the election from the constituency to Congress observers Narayanaswamy, an MLC and former legislator K Chandrashekar, who were recently in the city to interact with the party workers and decide on the party candidates for all 11 segments in the district. 
 
 Three-time corporator and former mayor Ayub Khan is being seen as a possible candidate from NR segment, and sources in the know affirmed that he had approached the observers seeking a ticket as well.
 
 Although Azeez is largely looked at as Ayub’s political mentor, the latter has defended his decision to seek a ticket from the NR segment, pointing out that the party workers and voters had extended their support.
 
 Meanwhile, SDPI appears confident of wresting the seat from the Congress this year. Abdul Majeed, the party’s general secretary, is contesting the seat, and exuded confidence of a triumph in the polls. “My team has been working vigorously for the past one year. Last time around, I only had a month’s time to prepare, but still managed to get 29,667 votes,” he said.
 
 This does not mean that it will end up being a straightforward two-way contest between Congress and SDPI. The JD(S) is likely to be a tough nut to crack for both Congress and SDPI.
 
 
