MUMBAI: Pradeep   (35) gets nervous at the prospect of getting onto a train. His fears aren’t unfounded. On February 18, 2014, he fell off a running local between   and Malad, unable to squeeze in past the door of a packed compartment. With a brain injury, broken jaw and multiple fractures, Ghadshi’s road to recovery has been nothing short of a miracle. The Malad firm where he worked was unflinching in its support and has since brought in staggered timings for all employees so that everyone can travel to work and back home safely.

 
 This piece is the fourth in a series on the initiative ‘Work-ToLiveToWork’ by the India Chapter of the International Advertising Association ( ), which roots for flexible work hours to ease commuting by train. Ghadshi, a Virar resident, told  : “Flashes of the accident keep coming back. In the short span of time that I was at the door, I had spotted an ex-colleague, Arvind Rane, in the coach and shouted out for help. Rane informed railway cops at the next station about my fall. But they had a single stretcher and first attended to a commuter, who was injured while crossing tracks, before coming to look for me.” He was taken to Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital in Kandivli, which did not have a CT-scan facility. There were fractures on his head and shoulders and several of his teeth were missing. “I had tied the knot only a monthand-half before the accident. My wife, Neeta, was overwhelmed. My colleagues had me moved to Hiranandani Hospital at Powai where I underwent neurosurgery,” he said.
 
 From contacting charities for gathering funds, making appeals through the media to haggling with the hospital for a discount, Ghadshi's colleagues did everything they could to help. His medical expenses came to around Rs 9 lakh.
 
 “Ghadshi joined the firm as a peon, but taught himself English, computers and the internet. He picked up office work quickly and now handles administration for the entire firm. He comes from a poor family, but is very hardworking and honest. The firm did not let his family pay a single rupee for his treatment,” said a former colleague.
 
 By June 2014, Ghadshi had decided to resume work. “A bulk of my dental procedure was left. But by staying back home, I would end up dwelling on my problems. So I decided to go back to work. I couldn’t afford a vehicle to travel by road. So I had to condition myself into getting onto a train once again,” said Ghadshi. His firm had by then shifted to staggered timings for employees.
 
 "There were a couple of factors, including Ghadshi's accident, that drove us to bringing in staggered timings. We consulted with all staffers if a change was okay with them. After they accepted, we decided to go ahead," said  , director, Makarna Exim Pvt Ltd, where Ghadshi is employed. The firm is a sourcing office for ready garment exports. Earlier, the firm's working hours used to be 10.30am to 7.30pm. Now, employees can come to work by 10.15am and can start leaving by 6.15 pm. "Over the years, more and more people have moved to the extended suburbs beyond   on the Western line and beyond   on the Central line. While the frequency of services is better than before, the number of commuters has gone up exponentially. When I see someone hanging out of a packed coach, I request him to let go off the train rather than risk falling off," said Ghadshi.
 
