MUMBAI: The south-west monsoon is expected to hit the city in another three weeks, but the BMC is yet to trim nearly 50,000 of the 93,353 trees identified as posing threats of fall of branches during heavy wind or rain. 

 
 Similarly, the civic body is also yet to remove 65 of the 534 dead trees identified this year. Last month, a 38 year old man died after a tree collapsed over him in Dadar’s   area. 
 
 
  
 
 “We aim to complete pruning of branches and removal of dead trees by May 31,” said  , deputy municipal commissioner in charge of garden department. 
 
 But citizens are skeptical. King Circle resident   said he had given BMC officials a list of trees in dangerous condition that needed immediate trimming. “However its unlikely that the BMC will be able to complete all the trimming by May 31,” said Desai. 
 
 Besides, there are questions why there’s nearly 45% increase in the number of trees identified for trimming, compared to last year (64,454). Kshirsagar attributed it to a careful scrutiny of trees this year. 
 
 “The BMC horticulture assistant, junior tree officers as well as assistant superintendent of gardens have been asked to go on rounds to ensure that in case they see any tree leaning or infested, then action plan should be prepared to ensure that such trees are either pruned or removed,” he said.
 
 Activists and citizens say the “chopping spree” may make the trees unstable without proper support. 
 
 “Excessive pruning will be harmful to trees,”   resident Zoru Bathena said, adding that following the recent death of a Dadar resident in a tree crash, the BMC is pruning more trees. Environmentalist   said he recently saw a BMC van take away the branches that were cut from a tree. “These were thin branches and did not require any trimming
 
 Even if these small branches fell they were unlikely to cause any harm,” he said. 
 
 But , Sion resident GR   said trimming of trees was much needed to ensure they are balanced. “Imbalanced trees could cause an untoward incident during rains,” said Vora. 
 
 In some localities, citizens themselves are ensuring appropriate trimming. At  , a group of residents ensures that they watch over when the BMC cuts and prunes trees in their area
 
