HYDERABAD: Special trains rolled out by the   (SCR) for Sankranti festival this year have proved to be a boon for denizens in Secunderabad, Hyderabad and  . 

 Keeping pace with the rising demand for reservations during the festival, the railways slotted 138 trains, and in each train, seats are being booked fast. 
 
 SCR introduced two 'Jana Sadharan' Express trains between Secunderabad and Kakinada on January 11 and 12. "These two special trains are unreserved and meant to ferry passengers at a minimal cost," the railway spokesperson said. 
 
 The services will benefit people travelling to different cities for the festival via Guntur, Vijayawada, Eluru and   among others.
 
 Last year, SCR ran 91 special trains during the festival. Though the railways increased the number of trains, it is exceeding the demand for bookings this time.
 
 As per norms, the rolling stick section has to sanction special trains. With the capacity of rolling stock being limited, the officials are in a fix about increasing the special trains for the festival.
 
 "This time we are running 138 special trains for the festival, 47 trains more than last year. Given the stagnant rolling stock, we are cutting down on special trains to other parts, till the festival rush settles down," said a railway official.
 
 Till January 18, the railways have scheduled 35 Sankranti special trains from Secunderabad, Kacheguda and Nampally to Vijayawada, Kakinada, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Raxaul, Tatanagar, Jaipur, Darbhanga and Krishnarajapuram. Likewise, 15 special train services have been allotted from Tirupati to Nagarsol, Nanded, Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Adilabad.
 
 In the return direction, 37 special trains are scheduled to Secunderabad, Kacheguda and Hyderabad from Vijayawada, Kakinada, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Raxaul and other places mentioned. From Tirupati, 18 will return to Nagarsol, Nanded, Visakhapatnam, Kakinada and Adilabad. 
 
 SCR is set to earn around 50 lakh from each of these special trains during the festive season, say sources. 
 
