NAVI MUMBAI: A circular issued by the former Congress government six months before the state went to assembly poll in October, 2014 has made   in the city, the only major source of supplier for stone chips and stone sand for infra and construction industry in Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and the MMR. Also, as the current state government continues with the 2014 circular of not granting fresh mining rights on forest land in the state, the only hill that stands to lose by way of natural resources and its existence is the Parsik Hill range. 

 Out of the 20,000 tonnes of chips and sand wheeled out daily, consumption is pegged at 50:50 between Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. The circular (addressed to chief conservator of forest, Nagpur) quoted the 2009 circular that had asked Thane forest office not to send fresh mining proposals on forest land to centre, and stated it was extending the eco-friendly decision to the entire state. 
 
 Additional principal chief conservator of forest and nodal officer (Nagpur),   told TOI, “We have stopped sending any proposal.’’ Parsik hill, however, has been mined for “close to five decades” with MoEF granting mining rights for 20 years till 2026. So, the circular is not applicable as these are old leases. Despite the fact that the hill is left with only 15% to 20% of permissible mining limits, quarry owners said it could last for more than a decade. Also, from 2014, say mine owners, the demand doubled from 10,000 tonnes to 20,000 tonnes daily. 
 
 
  
 The data provided by CCF , Thane, shows the distribution of stone mines is hugely skewed. Out of them, 74 mines are currently under environmental scanner following NGT order that demanded green clearance and mining map before allowing mining to continue. Cidco and the state need to take a close look at the hill, say environmentalists and experts. 
 
 The Parsik hill district environment appraisal committee stated the 74 mines are not a cluster and individual mines were less than five hectares, However, D Stalin of Vanshakti said, “There’s a   order that has asked to look at the cumulative environmental impact of mining on a hill, and not in isolation.” Thane collector,  , said, “I asked for environmental clearance as required0. As they did not have the papers, mining stopped. Also, a four-member committtee, along with me and experts will evaluate the environment clearance before taking a call.”
