 may be the colour of the   attire but the one aspect that distinguishes the uniform worn by over a lakh cops is the lack of uniformity in it. A cursory look at a group of policemen or women is enough to pick the different shades of khaki being worn by the personnel. In fact, the different hues they wear are not just limited to khaki, they even digress to borderline colours like olive green.

 Police personnel say that the different shades cannot be avoided as they purchase uniform cloth individually although it is provided by the department itself. Most of them prefer to use the uniform stitched from clothes they purchase as they feel comfortable wearing the fabric they want. Moreover, the two sets issued by the department are grossly inadequate.
 
 “We reserve the uniforms stitched using the issued cloth to be worn on inspection days and on occasions of parade or while meeting higher officials. While on normal duty, we prefer wearing the ones we buy since they are more comfortable to wear, especially in summer,” said a sub-inspector of police from Madurai city. An   petition recently filed by Times of India revealed that every metre of khaki uniform is being procured at the rate of Rs 138.50, less than half the starting price of the branded khaki clothes available in commercial stores. The terry cotton cloth is procured from various agencies like prison department,  , Coimbatore and National Textile Corporation, Coimbatore and is supplied by the department. A whopping 3.16 lakh metres was procured for 2017 alone.
 
 With the mercury level crossing 100 Fahrenheit in many parts of the state, the cops’ problems with issued uniforms would only worsen. A police head constable said, “The uniforms stitched using issued cloth material needs washing every day as white patches become palpable due to profuse sweating and it becomes stiff. Whereas the ones stitched using branded clothes can be worn for two days. Moreover, shrinking of the uniform is also an issue,” he said.
 
 At a time when police personnel are already grappling with various issues like long duty hours and accompanying stress, the uniform made using the issued clothes only adds to their woes, police personnel say. A special sub-inspector said they needed to maintain a minimum of four to five sets of uniforms. But only two sets are issued by the department. The money given towards stitching charges is also far less than what it takes. The quality and the colour shade are not similar in the issued cloths either, said an inspector got transferred to Madurai from Chennai recently. “The quality of the cloth was somewhat better in Chennai than in the southern districts. I used to be the first man to pick the best one,” he said. “Although there is a slight difference in shade even in the issued cloth, higher officers cannot question it,” he added.
 
 
 
 
