Raw, rustic and raspy, the tunes of   have become a rage online since the video promo of the song was released on Tuesday evening to mark Ram Charan’s birthday. The Mega Power Star’s lungi dance in the 35-second clip of the item song featuring   has triggered a deluge of likes and shares on social media, clocking close to 7 million views by Wednesday afternoon. And music director Devi Sri Prasad is overjoyed with the response. Admittedly, the music of   has won him accolades from far and wide. “Tamil star Suriya texted me saying he was blown away by the album of Rangasthalam. Apparently. the tracks have become a rage in Chennai as well,” says the composer adding, “Bunny ( ) also called and spoke at length on how much he enjoyed listening to the songs. Even, KTR garu texted me appreciating my work. I’m on cloud nine.” 
The folksy vibe of the compositions have an endearing 80s charm that’s a welcome departure from the dancy, club-meets-EDM influence that has become the norm in Tollywood these days. “I’ve always dreamt of doing an entire record just on folk music. And I am truly indebted to   and Sukumar for giving me the opportunity to live my dream through Rangasthalam,” he says . 
 In a bid to lend authenticity to the political drama set in the fictional village of Rangasthalam, the music director went to great lengths. “As the film is set in Rajahmundry of the 80s the music has to reflect the era. So I relied on different instruments for getting the rustic flavour. The older the brass instrument, the better the sound quality. For instance, for the number Jigelu Rani, I used a 70-year-old clarinet. But finding it proved to be a tough job,” says Devi.
 The music director’s decision to rope in folk singers — Rela Kumar and Ganta Venkata Lakshmi sang Jigelu Rani, Shiva Nagulu crooned Aa Gattununtava — has won him a lot of accolades. “I have many vivid memories of listening to the folk songs in my village. Folk singers are the unsung heroes. They keep our tradition and culture alive but don’t expect anything in return. Today, I feel delighted to have managed to bring folk songs to the mainstream with Rangasthalam,” he says.
 Singling out lyricist Chandrabose for special praise, Devi says, “The songs wouldn’t have been such a big hit if not for the writing of Chandrabose. We completed five of the six songs in four days flat. There is one song which has not been released yet. It has to be watched directly on the big screen. Chandrabose sang it himself and it will leave you moist-eyed.”
 
