PUDUCHERRY: The centralised admission committee ( ) will hold the mop-up counselling tentatively on May 14 to fill up 20 government   and 46 management seats in   medical programmes in three private   colleges and hospitals in the Union territory of Puducherry. The committee commenced registration of students for counselling from May 5. 

 The students, who qualify for the counselling, after the lowering of cut-off marks can apply by paying the registration fee. The candidates, who registered with the committee already, have to enter their choice to participate in the mop-up counselling round. The registration will close on May 10. The students, who did not join any courses after the second round of counselling, are eligible to appear for the mop-up counselling. The fees paid by them during the second round of counselling will be forfeited. The students, who joined the allotted courses in the respective colleges after the second round of counselling, will not be permitted to attend the counselling.
 
 The committee will publish the updated seat matrix tentatively on May 11. It will hold counselling separately for government and management seats.
 
 It will allow reservation in the first session. In later stages, it will convert the unfilled seats into unreserved seats and fill them up as per merit.
 
 The students will be allotted seats after they transfer the entire fees to the committee as the mop-up is the last round of counselling. The committee urged the students appearing for counselling to come prepared to transfer the fee on the spot. The committee will fill up 50% of minority quota seats in Pondicherry institute of medical sciences (Pims) (Christian religious minority) and Sri Venkateshwaraa medical college and hospital (SVMCH) (Telugu linguistic minority) with the respective minority students from the Union territory. Later it will fill up the vacant seats on all-India basis. 
 
 However, SVMCH claimed that the Madras high court has granted an interim stay on Puducherry government order restricting admission of minority students only from the Union territory of Puducherry. “As the issue pertains to the admission of candidates to the postgraduate courses, there shall be an order of interim stay of government order as it restricts intake of candidates only from the Union territory of Puducherry,” Madras HC judge Justice S Vaidyanathan said. 
 
 The committee so far has allotted 63 government seats and 35 management seats in postgraduate medical programmes after the first and second rounds. It has directed the students to transfer the fees to its account and join the programmes in the respective colleges before 5pm on May 10. It will transfer the fees collected from the students to the colleges concerned. 
 
 The committee asked the candidates to submit grievances,if any, to grievances’ officer (health and family welfare services) Nilamani during office hours.
 
 
