BENGALURU: With less than five days to go before curtains come down on the grand   of   at  , the Karnataka State Electronics Development Corporation LTD (Keonics) is yet to complete the tender process to put up a laser show at the ceremony.

 Keonics on February 19 issued a tender notification inviting proposals from reputed firms to conduct a laser show, showcasing the life and history of Bahubali. The last date for submission for tenders was Wednesday (February 21). Given the processes involved after the opening of the bids, including technical and financial scrutinies, it is anybody’s guess whether the show will indeed be put up during the occasion.
 
 The agency’s slow pace of execution comes despite the government starting preparations for Mahamastakabishekha more than a year ago.
 
 Keonics, however, sought to point a finger at the department of information and public relations (I&PR), the nodal agency for the event.
 
 “The information department is in charge of the show. They’ve asked us to complete the tender process and we’re doing it now. Beyond this we are not related to the project,” said an official.
 
 I&PR officials, however, said the department had issued the work order to Keonics sometime earlier this month, considering its expertise in the field of electronics.
 
 “Being a government agency, Keonics has been exempted from tender process to get a project. We issued the work order to it without tendering; the agency wants to hire a service provider and that’s why they have invited proposals from parties,” said P S  , I&PR director.
 
 Harsha said Keonics was already holding laser shows at Shravanabelagola and the agency had called for tenders to add more quality to the show so that it could be used on special occasions in future. “Keonics has been running a short version of the laser show utilising   as a pilot and has called for a tender for further enrichment of the basic version. The procedure is technically correct and legally valid. The product is going to be a property of the department of I&PR. Not that its relevance will end after Mahamastakabishekha.
 
 We’ll use it whenever we want to showcase the life of Bahubali and Jain heritage,” he added.
 
 He said the cost of the project has not yet been finalised as Keonics is expected to come up with a report on its execution and cost after tendering is done.
 
