Director Kotendra Dudyala’s   will hit screens sometime later this month or next, with the entire shooting schedule completed recently.  ,  , Apparao and   play the lead roles in the film that is touted to be a commercial 
romantic thriller.   and Chittibabu Reddypogu have composed the six-song OST of the film.
 First on the album is Rama Sakkanoda Ra Ra, featuring   and Dhanunjay’s vocals and Chilaka Rekka Ganesh’s lyrics. When a song begins with the lyrics ‘Oh pilla, rasgulla’ you know this is not a song you’re going to enjoy much despite Geetha Madhuri’s vocals. The music of the song seems to be picked straight out any early 2000s Tollywood masala film. This number is pure nostalgia gone bad!
 Next up is Cheliya Nee Kosam featuring Hema Chandra’s vocals and Kotendra Dudyala’s lyrics. Yet again another number that seems right out of a yesteryear movie, this number however manages to get the nostalgia factor right. Hema Chandra’s vocals and Kotendra’s lyrics elevate this heartbreak number while the music remains eerily reminiscent of O Cheliya’ from Premikudu in parts. 
 Rahul Sipligunj’s Emi Kalluro Mama featuring Chilaka Rekka Ganesh’s lyrics is an okay number. It is only Rahul’s vocals that manage to stand out in a number with good enough lyrics but subpar tune and music. The song however has a fun element that fails to come through effectively. 
 Naa Kongulo Na Gundelo by Karonya Kathrin with Kotendra Dudyala’s lyrics is yet another number let down by subpar vocals and tune. The retro-style music and tune however stand out in this out, if only the vocals were more powerful and effective. 
 Geetha Madhuri’s May Nello Meeku with Chilaka Rekka Ganesh’s lyrics seems like a blatant rip-off of her Pakka Local from Janatha Garage, at least at the beginning of the number. The song later however charters into completely safe and uninspired territory failing to make a mark or stand out from the several other special numbers Tollywood has. This one’s a miss.
 Last on the album is Andhamaina Premaraa with Sri Krishna’s vocals and Kotendra Dudyala’s lyrics. This one’s yet another number where the vocals, tune, music and lyrics just fail to make a mark. All in all, give the album of Bangari Balaraju’a safe miss this weekend unless ‘nostalgia-gone-bad’ is your thing. It is only Cheliya Nee Kosam that somewhat manages to stand out in this OST. 
 
 
