MADURAI: The toilet facility at   and surrounding areas, which are commercial hotspots of the city, is barely enough to address the needs of the area. While the civic body is trying to address the issue by installing e-toilets wherever necessary, it is facing opposition from a few people who are skeptical about the cleanliness of the area after the installation.

 Recently, the e-toilets installed between the Vilakkuthoon and   were damaged by miscreants indicating their objection to the place selected for installation. However, a toilet that was razed down by the civic body a few years ago had been functioning for many decades at the same spot.
 
 A complaint was registered in the community service registry with Vilakkuthoon police station against the miscreants who damaged the facility. The police suspect that the followers of former chief minister   could be behind the vandalism. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order), Madurai, V   said that inquiries were underway to identify the perpetrators. The footage available from the   camera fixed there was not clear enough to identity them, he said. Meanwhile, the civic body has shifted the damaged toilets from the spot. 
 
 The civic body faced similar difficulty while installing an e-toilet at the second chosen place near   Church in the   junction. This time the opposition came from the church authorities when the corporation tried to unload the material required for installing the toilet. The civic body workers had to take away the material. 
 
 While they selected three places, they were able to successfully install the e-toilet only in one place so far, which is at the Thirumalai Nayakkar Palace. Clearing the air around the cleanliness issue, assistant commissioner of Madurai corporation zone 3, R   said that the e-toilets are different from other toilets. It comes with automatic flushing system and there would not be any smell around it. Another official said that they have not backed down due to the opposition. Toilets would be installed at the same spots after persuading those who show opposition. He said that there are not many places available in the congested commercial hubs to consider shifting the toilets.
 
 
