CHANDIGARH : The Punjab and   high court on Friday issued notice to the Haryana chief secretary and the state’s power department on a plea seeking exclusion of affluent farmers, including prominent politicians from list of agricultural land owners getting subsidized electricity for agricultural pump sets in the state.

 The “affluent farmers” named in the public interest litigation ( ) filed by advocate H C Arora who get subsidised electricity in Haryana include former chief ministers Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Om Prakash Chautala, late Bansi Lal, senior Haryana cabinet minister Captain Abhimanyu along with four of his family members and other ministers, MLAs and former MLAs.
 
 The notices were issued by a division bench comprising Justice Ajay Kumar Mittal and Justice A S Grewal after taking cognizance of the PIL.
 
  
 In his PIL, the petitioner said that tariff charged for electricity to agricultural pump sets is 10 paise per unit for metered connections and Rs 15 per Break Horse Power (BHP) for unmetered connections.
 
 
 
 For domestic consumers, electricity tariff is charged according to a slab system and rates vary from Rs 2.70 per unit to Rs 7.10 per unit. The PIL said this was highly discriminatory against domestic consumers and included names of several affluent persons, including senior politicians and VVIPs of the state, who own agricultural land and are enjoying subsidised rates for electricity.
 
 The petitioner said directions were issued by the   ( ),  , in its July 11, 2017 report to its power discoms to issue a request to the agricultural power consumers, whose income, other than agricultural income, is in excess of Rs 20 lakhs, to voluntarily give up the electricity subsidy.
 
 It was to reduce the burden of subsidy payable by the state government which has reached unsustainable levels, largely because of the annual increase in the number of tube-well connections. However, no worthwhile result was achieved. The petitioner also submitted that he had sent a notice to the Haryana government, power department and the HERC on December 27, 2017 but received no response so far.
 
 The case will now come up for next hearing on March 16 when the state authorities will respond to the issues raised in the petition.
 
 
