KOLKATA: A day after the Florida school shooting in Miami, USA, that left 17 people dead, an exercise was carried out at the Delhi Public School New Town.

 Personnel of the US Special Forces, along with commandos of the National Security Guard (NSG), were carrying out an intervention drill to tackle one or more attackers inside. According to a highly-placed source in the ministry of home affairs (MHA), this was the first time the   were carrying out a drill in city under the Ex Tarkash series of bilateral exercises.
  
  
 
 
 “The Special Forces was very keen to train with the NSG and were in Kolkata for nearly a month. The targets were chosen very carefully. With the Florida attack in mind, the elite troops from the US looked forward to the school-drill. They returned home after picking up several tips and strategies from the NSG, particularly on urban combat. The NSG also learnt a lot about modern equipment and their use,” the source said.
 
 The NSG commandos who participated in the exercise were from the hub at   in Madhyamgram. While officers at the hub could not be contacted for comment, the source in New Delhi revealed the US   — as the Special Forces are called — were enthused after the drills held in the city’s   network. The NSG holds regular drills in the city’s   network on its own to upgrade Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) on the basis of the changing security scenario. This was the first time the US Special Forces participated in such a drill.
 
 “It may sound strange but the Green Berets claimed they never carried a drill in their country, which has an extensive underground Metro network. The participation of the US Special Forces in such drills reveals a change in stance in the US regarding use of such units for internal security. The soldiers from the US also participated in a night-exercise at the IIT, Kharagpur extension centre in Salt Lake. Helicopters were used during this exercise, where the commandos tried out different intervention techniques, both from the ground and roof. The building was selected as it is an isolated one and a perfect target for terrorists. Both forces went the full hog and used special techniques and validated equipment during this exercise,” the source added.
 
