THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Trade unions affiliated to both the   and LDF and motor vehicle owners’ associations have called for a dawn-to-dusk (6am to 6pm)   on January 24 in protest against the frequent hikes in fuel price.

 The uncontrolled increase in the prices of petrol and diesel is badly affecting the people working in this industry and they are unable to bear the cost, said  , convener of the joint action council.
 
 The steep increase in the fuel price is due to the free hand given by the Centre to the oil companies to fix the price. Despite a fall in the crude oil price in the international market, the Centre is not taking any steps to bring down the fuel prices, he said.
 
 Most of the people in the motor industry are self-employed owners and contract carriages. They are unable to withstand the frequent price hike, he added.
 
 The joint action council has urged the Centre to direct the oil companies to bring down the fuel price. They also asked the Centre not to impose the excise duty that was increased earlier.
 
 Pvt buses to go on strike from Jan 30: Private Bus Operators   ( ) has called for an indefinite strike from January 30, to protest against the delay in implementation of fare revision. The decision to go on strike was taken in the meeting of association representatives held here on Thursday.
 
 The private bus owners who are part of the Confederation had requested the government for fare revision in July. They had conducted a token strike in August and had announced the launch of an indefinite strike in September following which, the government assigned Justice   committee to conduct a study in this regard. The committee submitted its report in December, 2017.
 
 The Confederation members say that more than three weeks after the report was submitted, the government has not taken any decision to increase the bus fare.
 
 “The government did not take any decision in this regard in the past two cabinet meetings held after the report was submitted. Government knows the crisis faced by private bus operators. We have not been invited for a discussion regarding the fare revision by the government,” said  , chairman of PBOC.
 
 Prior to the strike, the state-level PBOC representatives will conduct a hunger strike in front of the secretariat on Monday.
 
 The demands of private bus owners include hike in minimum fare to Rs 10 and revision in kilometre charge to 80 paise per km, reduction in travel concession offered to students and renewal of permit schedules with more than 140 km distance and withdrawing the hike in road tax.
 
 
