GANDHINAGAR: Although the Gujarat government had announced it would allocate a whopping Rs 600 crore for the   (non-reserved, forward castes) Education and Economic Development Corporation and   in September last year, the bodies still have not work or got any funds from the state government. The Social Justice and Empowerment department has not even got any financing to start its schemes, so the grants will either lapse or will have to be parked for use next year. Both these institutions were formed after the Patidar reservation agitation. 

 In September 2017, the Gujarat government announced allocation of Rs 600 crore for the newly formed Savarna Education and Economic Development Corporation which was to work for the welfare of 58 non-reserved forward castes like Brahman, Patidar, Vanik etc. 
 
 The government allocated Rs 100 crore as share capital and a Rs 500 crore loan to the corporation. This corporation was given a mandate to work for 58 castes in education and economic development. Farmers, artisans and labourers was supposed get the benefits. Schemes for housing, electricity, business, water and education were promised. The corporation was suppose to give youth employment-oriented training. The government had announced it would facilitate bank loans for non-reserved castes, but the social justice and empowerment department has not formed any scheme or started registration of beneficiaries. A senior officer close to the development said, “Due to procedural issues the corporation and commission are yet to start functioning. The government is supposed to provide logistic support like appointment of staff. Once they are appointed, we can start framing new schemes and registering beneficiaries. The department has not got any money from the Rs 600 crore promised. We will request the finance department to park the funds for the next few months and allocate fresh grants in 2018-19, so we can carry out more work in the next financial year.”  , the new social justice and empowerment department minister, said, “I am understanding the department and am not aware of the status of the Savarna corporation and commission. The officials are making a presentation to me about pending work, to help me understand the issues.”
 
 
