LUDHIANA: An   woman from Ludhiana has penned a novel on the migration of Punjabis to foreign countries, and the challenges faced by them there. Canadian author Harkirat Kaur Chahal’s new novel Thoharan De Phull was released at a function held in Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) here on Friday. The function was organized by Punjabi Sahit Akademi Ludhiana in association with PAU Sahit Sabha. This is Chahal’s second novel in Punjabi.

 “My birthplace is Gopalpur near Mandi Ahmadgarh, and I studied there till class 8 before shifting to Ludhiana, and after pursuing B.Sc (Home Sciences) from PAU and B.Ed from the same university, I took up teaching in private schools in Nabha and Patiala, before moving to Canada in 2005. My husband runs a veterinary hospital there, and from 2006 to 2012, I taught at a private school in Richmond before leaving that job,” said 47-year-old Harkirat, mother of a doctor daughter and a veterinarian son.
 
 “I always had this passion for writing, and wrote my first book Pariyan Sang Parwaz which covered various topics, including my years in Ludhiana. It was released in 2016. Then, I wrote a novel in 2017 — Tere Bajo — which focused on my struggle. The present novel is on various topics, including migration of Punjabis to foreign countries, the journey of women from marriage to becoming a mother, and how she dedicates her life to her new family and the sacrifices she makes.” She added that the book also touches on the subject of 1984 riots, and sufferings of the victims.
 
 Chahal’s new novel was released by Gadvasu (Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University) Ludhiana vice-chancellor Amarjit Singh Nanda, GNDU (Guru Nanak Dev University) former vice-chancellor Dr SP Singh, Punjab Bhawan Surrey (Canada) founder Sukhi Bath, Punjabi Sahit Akademi president Prof Ravinder Bhathal, and former president Professor Gurbhajan Gill, besides several others.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Professor Gurbhajan Gill said: “Harkirat Kaur Chahal’s novels depict various aspects of human life, womanhood, as well as our family values.” He said PAU Ludhiana had a rich legacy with literature, as Chahal is also a former student of the varsity. He said being a resident of Canada, Chahal had been promoting Punjabi on foreign shores.
 
 Prominent among those present on the occasion included novelist Baldev Singh Sadaknama, Punjabi University’s dean of Journalism Dr Harjinder Singh Walia, and poet Amar Sufi.
 
 
