KOLKATA: Finally, an effort to protect cattle that has got nothing to do with the ‘gau-raksha’ movement elsewhere in the country.

  — the fast growing satellite township — will soon have a cattle shelter, but for an entirely ‘secular’ reason. It will house stray cows and buffaloes that keep wandering onto the roads that run through New Town and  , often leading to fatal accidents. The   ( ) hopes to get it functional by February-March.
 
 The NKDA authorities are in the final stages of setting up the shelter on a three-acre plot in Action Area ID of New Town. It will provide temporary refuge to stray cattle till t heir owners come and take them away. But the period of their stay at the shelter is yet to be decided. It is also not clear if the owners will be charged for the expenses incurred on the straying animals. A committee has been formed with veterinary doctors, officers of NKDA and officers from the local police station to determine the modalities of operating the shed.
 
  
  
 The shed was prompted by several accidents triggered by straying cattle that resulted in loss of lives — both human and bovine. “We expect the cattle shed to be functional within February or March once all the required modalities are finalised and the staff is ready to take care of cattle brought here,” said a NKDA official.
 
 
 
 
 A total 20 feeding blocks have been constructed to provide shelter to 20 cows shed at a time. “Since it’s a 3-acre plot, there would be a big open space that can accommodate another 50 to 60 cows,” an official said. He added that the shelter will help reduce accidents on the main arterial road. Over 100 cows get injured each year.
 
 The NKDA has also made an inclusion in the NKDA Act, saying it will have the authority to forcibly remove stray cattle from roads. The authorities had held meetings with the gram panchayat pradhans to create awareness about the dangers of letting cattle stray. But the incidents of straying continues.
 
 “It is a very good initiative to help save cattle accidents,” said  , a resident of New Town’s Action Area I.
 
 The committee will supervise the shelter and take decisions such as fixing the feeding source of animals, ensuring their care till they return to the owners and the manner in which the costs are to be recovered. The committee will also arrange for training the supervising staff, who will be trained at the Haringhata animal resources development unit.
 
