LUCKNOW: The Centre is planning to amend the  , 1872, in order to incorporate images and videos captured from mobile phone as primary evidence "sufficient for prosecution". 

 The Union home ministry has sought the opinion of police departments of various states, such as Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and J&K, following widespread criticism over alleged inept handling of Jat riots in Rohtak and anti-Dalit riots in Saharanpur in UP by security forces.
 
  " Video recordings, CCTV footage or images captured through cellular phones should be considered as evidence sufficient for prosecution under the Evidence Act, 1872. Required amendments may be incorporated in CrPC or in the Evidence Act," the proposal says. 
 
 It also says the Centre must seek an indemnity from organisers of protests to maintain peace, failing which compensation may be secured from them.
 
 While the Information Technology Act, 2000 has given legal sanctity to electronic records under the Evidence Act, records in the form of email, image or SMS have to be attached with a certificate under Section 65B of the Evidence Act. Section 65 of the Evidence Act determines conditions and procedure of proof of an electronic record in court.
 
 Also, there are two more conditions for making the electronic record admissible - first, there has been no unauthorised access to the data in question, and, second the computer was functioning properly, therefore the reproduction of data is accurate and genuine.
 
 "Till now, in every case where electronic data from a mobile phone is concerned, the data is first copied to a computer and then a printout is taken. A certificate describing the entire process of transfer and printing is prepared by a computer forensic expert, operator of the mobile phone and the laptop," said criminal lawyer Tanvir Mir. "It has to compulsorily conform to the conditions in Section 65B of the Evidence Act." 
 
 "This amendment will come in handy when riots or clashes break out at public places like universities, or protestors clash with police, as it is difficult to ascertain the instigators," said a senior UP police officer.
 
 
