GHAZIABAD: The Dilshad Garden-New Bus Stand   is most likely to miss its June deadline because of lack of   released by each stakeholder.

 The Centre, which is supposed to give the lion’s share of funds of Rs 402 crore, is yet to grant any money for the project in the absence of an approval from the Union urban development ministry. Other stakeholders, such as   and UP housing board, are also lagging behind.
 
 While the municipal corporation is yet to release any funds (Rs 246 crore), the housing board has given around Rs 200 crore of Rs 440 crore it is supposed to allot. UPSIDC has released Rs 43.30 crore of its share of Rs 97 crore.
 
 “The GMC was supposed to contribute Rs 246 crore for the project, but has time and again expressed its inability to pay up,” said Ritu Maheshwari, the vice-chairperson of   Development Authority (GDA). “We had initially worked out a formula under which we had decided to pay on behalf of GMC against a piece of land that is with us. But according to a new government order, no intra-departmental adjustment can be carried out. So, it is now for the government to find a way out,” Maheshwari added.
 
 Officials said the GDA, the nodal agency for the project, had repeatedly written to the Centre to expedite the process of approval, but to no avail. Sources said work on the stations along the route was almost complete and the   was looking after electrification and laying of tracks.
 
 “The structural work of 12 of the 14 buildings for the eight metro stations along the route is almost complete while work on the remaining two is going on. But given the pace of work and the lack of funds, meeting the June 2018 deadline looks impossible,” said a DMRC official.
 
 The agreement for the metro route had been signed between the GDA and DMRC in 2014. Though the project was supposed to have been completed in three years, issues related to funds and land acquisition had prompted the deadline to be extended to June 2018.
 
 Last month, the GDA had resolved an impasse over a patch of land required for the fire exits at two stations. “At the Mohan Nagar and New Bus stand metro stations, we needed over 100sqm to build the fire escape routes. The land was owned by two private parties — RED Mall and   Limited — who were not willing to part with it at the price offered. The matter has now been resolved,” Maheshwari had said.
 
 
