KOLKATA: Cancer, a dreaded disease that wreaks havoc in the lives of all those it touches, worked as an impetus for 54-year-old  . Diagnosed with   in 2015, Sen tried out ways to divert her mind from the ailment, which in turn paved the way for the Garia resident to start a food delivery business.

 When Sen was diagnosed, doctors said her disease was at an operational stage. She underwent mastectomy in July 2015 at  .
 
 “Initially, I was shattered as I have seen a close relative losing her battle to breast cancer. But then I thought whatever had to happen would happen, but I would not give up,” she said.
 
 It was during the rounds of chemotherapy following the surgery that Sen participated in a food festival in her locality. Since she was bald due to the chemotherapy, her two sisters volunteered to run the stall on her behalf. Her preparations were a hit and she never looked back.
 
 “Dr Shaikat Gupta, the director of surgical oncology at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals who operated upon me, would often tell me to channelize my efforts into something I loved to indulge in. Cooking has always been a passion for me and I directed all my energy onto it. It made me forget about my cancer,” Sen told TOI.
 
 After six rounds of chemotherapy, she decided to jump into the food business and launched Ebela Obela, a home delivery restaurant from her kitchen in Bramhapur. Initially, she would receive orders only by phone. Now, with the help of her chartered accountant son Anik, she has tied up with food delivery apps as well. Sen now employs 14 people in her restaurant.
 
 Her day starts at 5am with an hour-long walk. It is followed by a visit to the local market to procure the vegetables, meat and fish for the day. After breakfast, she dons the chef’s apron preparing pulao, chicken curry, luchi, aloo dum and so on. Her two sisters, too, have joined the venture.
 
 “I am so absorbed in my work that I have no time to think about my cancer except when somebody specifically asks. I had always been happy to be a homemaker. But now I am happier being a businesswoman,” she said.
 
 Gupta himself was amazed when he found about Sen during a cancer survivors’ meet. “She came across as a fighter. This kind of grit helps in healing. That is why we encourage patients to bury themselves in something they love to do. In her case, her ailment has dragged her out to become an entrepreneur, which is very encouraging,” he said.
 
 He added that though Sen is free of cancer now, she needed follow-up check-ups every year due the risk of the disease coming back.
 
