VADODARA: Buoyed by the success received in its  ,   is set to become the first university campus of Gujarat to adopt enviornment friendly transportation. 

 The university has decided to introduce cycle-sharing system for students for on-campus transport. At the same time, it will insist that staffers including teachers and non-teaching staffer members and officials of the university adopt carpooling. 
 
 The university’s construction division is preparing a roadmap for introducing green transportation at the campus whereby students will be asked to park their two-wheelers at the designated parking spaces provided near the entrance gates.
 
 “From the entrance gates itself, the students will be provided bicycles to move around the campus. We will encourage students having their faculties or institutes at stone’s throw to walk down to their faculties or institutes. Others who have to commute a longer distance, will be provided bicycles,” said MSU engineer N K Ojha. 
 
 Adopting such means will reduce noise pollution caused by constant honking by commuters across the campus, reduce CO2 emissions and bring a control on accidents caused by speed freaks who like to flaunt their latest bikes. 
 
 “Also, we will be issuing a circular that no officer or staffer should enter the campus alone in their vehicle. They can pick up students or other staff members on their way to promote carpooling. As an incentive, such users will get preferred parking space,” he said. 
 
 The cycle-sharing system will be adopted at the main campus which is home to all the major faculties of the university including arts, science, commerce, education and psychology and the Kalabhavan campus which is home to the  . 
 
 The construction division will soon start a survey on the number of cycles required to implement the project and the parking space required while the building committee is preparing the detailed proposal. 
 
 It is estimated that nearly 1,000 two-wheelers move around in the main campus on any given day. “We believe that we will require nearly 400 to 500 bicycles for the project,” he said, adding that shower facilities will be also provided to cycle users who can freshen up at such spots after a ride on the campus. 
 
 The current parking space the main campus is estimated to be 1,000 sq m. 
 
 The university will carry out the project from the Rs 2.60 crore fund it has received from the Department of Climate Change of Gujarat government and commissioner of higher education who have appreciated the university’s green initiatives including that in the field of green buildings, energy efficient buildings, net zero buildings and zero discharge campus. 
 
 The construction division has requested additional Rs five crore for more such projects in the campus. 
 
 “At places like the Maharaja Pratapsinhrao Gaekwad Parisar (earlier known as Donor’s Plaza ground), there are no parking shed as trees themselves act as sheds for vehicles that are parked on the campus. We are taking such steps at other campuses as well,” he said. 
 
 Incentives for using public transport 
 
 Students who use public transport to reach the university campus will receive incentives or rewards. The construction division will be proposing such incentives for students while preparing its proposal which will be placed before university’s syndicate body for its approval. 
 
 “We can provide a token incentive or reward to such students as a campus without two-wheelers and four wheelers will not only improve the aesthetic value of the campus but also reduce adverse effects that vehicle pollution causes to the university’s heritage buildings,” said MSU engineer N K Ojha, also who are staying within one or two km can come walking to the campus. 
 
 Venky had first pushed for cycling at MSU 
 
  The idea of using cycles as a mode of on-campus transport was first mooted by Venkatraman Ramakrishnan aka Venky – the only Nobel laureate that M S University has in its list of alumni. 
 
 A big fan of cycles, Venky, had pushed for bicycles lanes on MSU campus during his visit in 2010 while talking to students in the physics department of Faculty of Science, where he had studied.
 
 “We could have a bicycle lane. It costs much less than what a road would cost,” he had said, while adding that India has one of the fastest growing obesity and diabetic population.
 
 “It is a problem of the society,” Venky had said, adding that “Baroda has grown like every other Indian city but cities have not been planned properly. No politician has said where Baroda will be ten, 20 years from now. This is true for every Indian city. Some housing society comes up here and there. There is chaos everywhere as there is no planning with no mass transit system.” 
 
 Recollecting his days at Jivraj Mehta Hall in the boys hostel, Venky had said that as a child, he could easily cycle or walk. 
 
 “Now students move on motorcycles and some even in cars. This has shifted balance on the roads. I have a photograph of Sayajigunj in my laptop of 1980 – the same place where there is a police station now. There were only two cycles on that road. Now it is dangerous for bicycles. Even parents won’t allow their kids to move on bicycles. Imagine if all the one billion people in the country had cars,” he said. 
 
 
