MUMBAI:   police on Saturday arrested five persons, including two minors, from Chembur, days after TOI reported (Bikers harass   on Marine Drive, February 10) how they allegedly harassed three women near Girgaum  . Police identified two of three   and zeroed in on them within 24 hours with the help of CCTV footage from Mafatlal junction. 

 The three identified were Prem Nikhalje (21), Jagmohan Prasad (21) and Vikas Chaurasia (22). 
 
 Ashit Shroff, a financial company executive, who was jogging on Thursday, saw the three being harassed around 5.20am. Unable to find any patrolling cops, he called up the emergency number 100, but a cop reverted only at 7am.
 
 There were strong reactions on social media following the report, after which police registered an FIR. “We scanned CCTV footage and zeroed in on few bikers, who we traced to Chembur, on priority basis,” said an officer. Police said the five had come to South Mumbai for a joyride. 
 
 All accused have been booked under IPC sections for outraging the modesty of a woman, criminal intimidation and wrongful confinement as the accused teased one of the victims, cornered her and tried to ask her name and mobile number.
 
 “I was going towards Chowpatty, when three women were coming from the opposite direction. Five men on two motorcycles passed by, went towards the girls, and said something to them. I heard one of the women say to another that she had addressed the youth as ‘bhai’ (brother) but they were still insisting that she part with her number. She yelled at them, after which they left,” said Shroff.
 
 As it was dark, Shroff could not note down the registration numbers of the motorcycles. The victim hailed a cab near Taraporewala Aquarium and left. Police officials on Saturday summoned parents of all five accused and counselled them. 
 
 The accused, who do odd jobs, had gone to Marine Drive late at night and were there till the next morning. Advocate Sunil Pandey who represented the accused, said, “It is a frame-up. Police have been unable to trace the victim and a constable has filed a complaint based on a newspaper report. Such evidence cannot be relied on as there are Supreme Court guidelines.”
 
 
