TRICHY: Members of the railway users’ consultative committee have urged the railway authorities to operate new passenger as well as express trains claiming that the general public had started to opt for train journeys after the state government hiked bus fares recently. Some members appealed to the authorities to divert the Mysore –Mayiladuthurai Express train via Namakkal skipping Erode to save more than an hour.

 Speaking at the second meeting of the Divisional Railway Users’ Consultative Committee (DRUCC) of Trichy division held here on Tuesday, Swamimalai R Vimalnathan said that due to steep hike in the bus fare, a lot of passengers preferred to travel by train. Hence, he requested extra trains including superfast express via all the routes in Trichy division. Additional general coaches, reserved coaches and ladies compartmentss should also be attached.
 
 In another representation, Vimalnathan stated that Mayiladuthurai-Trichy passenger train may be extended up to Dindigul and connected with Coimbatore-Nagercoil passenger for the sake of passengers from Thanjavur, Trichy and Dindigul. On selling of water bottles for Rs 20 at Thanjavur station, the officials said that the concerned authorities were instructed to look into the issue and to bring the defaulter to book so as to put an end to such practice.
 
  Member of DRUCC VR Dhanaseelane stated passengers bound for Tiruvarur, Velankanni, Nagore and Thirunallar found it very difficult to reach their pilgrim centres. The timing of the Coimbatore -Mannargudi express may be suitably rescheduled so as to arrive at Thanjavur at 6 am and Thanjavur - Karaikal DEMU departs from Thanjavur at 6.15 am. In reply, officials stated that with the present timings, it was not operationally feasible. However, headquarters would be advised to suitably revise the timings of both trains. Divisional Railway Manager P Uday Kumar Reddy who chaired the meeting sought the cooperation of the members in providing additional facilities at stations.
 
 
