PATNA: The bus operators flout rules and misuse the all-India tourist permits in Bihar to ferry passengers to other states, said   president   on Friday.

 Talking to TOI in the backdrop of Motihari bus accident on Thursday, Singh said the all-India tourist permit does not allow the bus operator to pick or drop passengers at any desired place after booking. He said the bus with all-India permit ( ) also needs to carry a list of passengers travelling, but in the case of Motihari bus accident, no such list was available.
 
 The bus bearing registration number UP-75AT-2313 carrying passengers from   to New Delhi turned turtle and caught fire on NH-28 near village Belwa under the Kotwa police station area of East Champaran district on Thursday. 
 
 According to Motor Vehicles Rule, 1993, a tourist vehicle other than a motor cab plying on an AIP shall at all times carry the list of passengers in respect of each trip and the list shall be produced when demanded by the authorized officers.
 
 Singh said an interstate permit issued by the state transport authority is required for carrying passengers from one state to another. He said most of the buses in the state with   (UP) registration numbers are operated by people from Bihar only. “It is easier to get AIP in UP than in Bihar. Thus, the bus owners get their vehicles registered in UP and later get AIPs issued from there only,” he said.
 
 “The bus owners provide a temporary address in UP and permanent address of Bihar for registration of their vehicles. Once the permit is issued, they, with the help of any agency, ferry passengers from Bihar to Delhi, UP and West Bengal and back,” he said. “It results in huge revenue loss to the state government as the bus owners pay road tax to UP government and the state transport department officials turn a blind eye to such activities for obvious reasons,” he added.
 
 Singh said the central government had conceptualized the AIP in 1976 to encourage tourism across the country.
 
 Bihar Truck Owners Association president Bhanu Shekhar Prasad Singh said more than 200 buses ply from Bihar on all-India permit for tourism purpose, but they ferry passengers, instead of tourists. “Minimum Rs1500 is charged from a bus passenger for Delhi,” he added.
 
 According to police sources, around 20 buses ply from Muzaffarpur to Delhi on tourist permit but carry passengers with the nexus of transport officials. A transport officer at Muzaffarpur said 42 buses ply from different places in Tirhut division to Delhi daily and 40 of them are registered in UP. The state transport officers don’t take any action against the illegal practice. 
 
 
