BEHRAMPORE: Swapan   (52) is convinced that the accident that killed 36 people, including two children, wouldn’t have taken place had the bus driver been more cautious and obeyed traffic rules.

 “We kept telling the driver not to speak over the phone while driving,” said Halder, writhing in pain with a fractured right leg at the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital’s male surgical ward.
 
 
 Haldar had boarded the bus from   and was heading to Behrampore. The daily labourer takes this bus every day. “I was standing near the door because I had to get off at Behrampore, just 12km away from Domkal,” he recounted.
 
 “The driver, I noticed, was continuously speaking on his cellphone while driving. The bus was moving fast. I asked him to keep the phone down. I also reminded him that the road has many sharp turns,” he said.
 
 According to the survivor, many other passengers had also objected. “He was unfazed. Suddenly, the bus swerved right and I was thrown out of it. I lost my grip due to the sudden jerk and fell in the water with a thud. My right leg was badly hurt. But I somehow managed to swim towards the bank. Somebody dragged me out of the water. My leg was badly aching and I could not walk.” The pain, he said, kept increasing and he passed out. He found himself in the hospital later, with a plaster on his right leg.
 
 Another survivor, Dinabandhu   (42), had boarded the bus at Jalangi. Pramanik, a daily labourer like Haldar, too was on his way to Behrampore. Unlike Haldar, he was standing in the back of the bus when he felt the jerk. “I never felt anything like this before. It was like someone dragging you and throwing out. In the impact, I was hurled to the front of the bus,” he said. The impact left his hands and legs fractured.
 
 “I couldn’t realise what was happening. Then suddenly, all the noise stopped. The bus was under water. I saw a window and looked out of it. I somehow managed to get out through the opening and then tried to swim ashore but I could not move my arms and legs. I managed to keep afloat and soon felt someone pulling me. I don’t remeber anything after that,” he recounted.
 
 Apart from Haldar and Pramanik, the others who survived the accident are Bibhas Pramanik from Karimpur, Sajeda Biwi from Madhupur in Domkal, Ahmaad Sk and   from Jalangi. All are now being treated in the same hospital.
 
 Sixty-year-old Parbati Haldar, who boarded the bus from Jalangi, was rescued too, but succumbed to her injuries later.
 
 Among the bodies recovered initially, there was a 25-year-old Malda primary school teacher,  . A resident of Domkal’s Sitalnagar, Majumdar had started working only a year and a half ago. His father, Bhupendra Narayan, said: “This is a curse, which never seems to leave us. Earlier, I have lost two of my nephews to bus accidents and now my son.”
 
