At the age of six or seven,   started playing the piano as a recreational activity. Never did he know that it will soon turn into his passion. Now, this Italian pianist, a recipient of a 2010 Borletti-Buitoni Trust Fellowship Award, enthrals people across the globe with artistry on the piano. “I don’t come from a family of musicians, my parents liked classical music. Playing a piano was like a game for me in the beginning; but then it grew on me, and eventually, it became my life. I never got the opportunity to ask myself what I wanted to do with my life. I went with the flow, and then there was no looking back,” he said .

 There was no looking back indeed! Gabriele has turned into a globally renowned pianist. He performed as a soloist, as part of an orchestra, and in collaboration with eminent conductors such as Alain Altinoglu, Lawrence Foster, Ion Marin, Claud Peter Flor. He has also performed in numerous music festivals around the world with prominent instrumentalists, including Lorenza Borrani, Colin Carr, Andrea Lucchesini, Marie-Elisabeth Hecker, Dora Schwarzberg and Itamar Zorman.
 
 Gabriele, who was in the city for a concert held at  , said it was his first concert in the city of Nizams and that he was excited to perform here. “It’s a refreshing feeling to come from Europe and play something that your audience might find new. Yet, they listen to you with rapt attention. A musician feels blessed if his or her audience is sensitive to music, despite having no knowledge about what he or she is playing. And I find SOTA’s 
 attempt to popularise Western Classical music really great,” he said.
 
 When asked if he follows Indian Classical music and if he would ever like to collaborate with an Indian Classical musician if given a chance, he said, “I feel very ignorant when it comes to Indian Classical music. It has a very different approach, with no work ever written down. There’s a lot room for improvisations. Converse is the case with Western Classical music, where compositions are written down using staff notation, and musicians have no latitude for improvisation. We try to express what the composers said in the past and what they have written down. There’s room for freedom, in trying to interpret a masterpiece. It’s like theatre — like staging a Shakespeare play. There’s no room for improvisation since the text is written down. One only has the freedom to interpret it in his own way. So I don’t know if it’s possible to collaborate with Indian classical musicians.”
 A human heart is never satisfied. There’s always an unfulfilled wish that always haunts you, no matter how big your achievements are. Gabriele is not an exception. Despite weaving magic with his fingers on the grand piano, he is never satisfied. “There’s always a room for improvement, so it’s hard to be satisfied with the quality of music one produces. Moreover, there are so many pieces of music that I haven’t played yet. It’s been years that I am travelling around and performing, but I still feel like a novice. Playing all sonatas of   is every pianist’s dream, and not everyone can do it. I can play only 16 out of 32 sonatas. And I want to play all of them, which for sure, will be the turning point in my life,” he said signing off.
 
