HYDERABAD: In a major boost to the city’s infrastructure and improving road connectivity in  , Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari will lay foundation stones on Saturday for widening of highways and construction of elevated, semi-elevated expressways in and around the city at a cost of Rs 1,525 crore.

 
 A semi-elevated expressway would be constructed on the national highway-44 between Aramgarh and Shamshabad allowing the flyers to reach the   at Shamshabad faster. Presently, the stretch narrows down at Shamshabad and a few other points causing traffic jams and delays for commuters heading to the airport and also motorists going towards   and Bengaluru by road.
 
 Giving details of Gadkari’s visit and the projects that would be taken up, roads and buildings minister   on Friday said the estimated cost of the semi-elevated expressway on NH-44 is Rs 284 crore and is targeted to be completed in 24 months.
 
 Another crucial project is the 6.25-km long elevated expressway on NH-202 from Uppal, which is estimated to cost Rs 627 crore. An elevated corridor is needed at Uppal junction and also on the stretch towards Boduppal to allow highway traffic avoiding traffic jams, a common phenomenon on this stretch.
 
 It was a long pending demand and works will finally kick off with the laying of the stone by the Union minister.
 
 Yet another major project, a long-pending demand in the city, is the flyover at   and ‘6 Number’ junction.
 
 This project on NH-202 with the 1.5-km proposed flyover jumping over the junctions of 6 Number and Amberpet will cost cost Rs 187 crore.
 
 Gadkari is also expected to lay a foundation stone for widening of the NH-765D from Hyderabad-ORR to Medak junction stretching up to 63 km at a cost of Rs 427 crore. Nageswara Rao said the project includes construction of paved shoulders on either side of the road. Rao thanked Gadkari for the sanction of 3,155-km of new national highways in the last four years to Telangana after chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had spoken with Prime Minister Modi and Gadkari himself.
 
