BENGALURU: Despite   (CEO) announcing that   till April 14 and make it to the final voters’ list for the May 12 polls,   are making applicants run from pillar to post.

 G M Pai, a resident of Whitefield who filled form no. 6 online for inclusion of his name in the list, had to visit three different BBMP offices to submit the hard copy of his application, only to be told that it wouldn’t be accepted. Pai said he was finally informed by an official at Seegehalli gram panchayat office to furnish the hard copy during BBMP’s special enrolment drive on April 8.
 
 “I have made several trips to BBMP offices, but till now my application hasn’t been accepted. I went to the BBMPOne office in HAL and was asked to go Marathahalli and then to Ramagondanahalli. I was then sent to Seegehalli GP office, where I was told the last day for submission was over. No amount of reasoning with the officials helped,” recounted an exasperated Pai.
 
 After TOI took up Pai’s case with BBMP, he received several calls from civic officials who asked him to come and submit his application.
 
 Sridevi Sampath, 36, from Seegehalli, has a similar story to share. Whenever she checks the status of her online application filed an year ago, she gets the message ‘field verification done’. But Sridevi has neither got her electoral photo identity card (EPIC) nor is her name reflecting in the draft voters’ list published on February 28. Left with no option, she has applied once again, said her husband Sampath Ramanujam.
 
 “On behalf of the Federation of RWAs, Communities, Establishments-Greater Whitefield (FORCE-GW), we had submitted 750 applications for voter registration last year. Till today, there is no clarity on their status. As I spearheaded the registration drive in many apartment complexes, residents have been asking me about the applications but BBMP has not been updating us. We recently submitted 215 applications again,” said Sampath, general secretary, FORCE-GW.
 
 BBMP officials from Mahadevapura zone said the process of EPIC distribution is on. “If residents are experiencing glitches, we will look into the matter. As Mahadevapura is on the fringes of the city, applications from Hoskote and Anekal (places beyond BBMP jurisdiction) are also landing in the Palike’s offices. We can’t process them so we send them to the offices concerned. In such cases, we wouldn’t know the status,” said officials.
 
 It may be recalled that the Palike had rejected 8,867 online applications without citing a valid reason. The Million Voter Rising campaign of citizens’ group Whitefield Rising had filed a PIL with the   high court in November 2017 seeking directions to ensure transparency in inclusion of names in electoral rolls and issuing of acknowledgements. On the court’s direction, the CEO and senior BBMP officials visited Mahadevapura zone and initiated steps to address the problems.
 
 GLITCHES AT BANGALOREONE CENTRES
 Those whose names are in the voters’ list but haven’t been issued EPICs can collect the cards from BangaloreOne centres. All they have to do is furnish details like the voter ID number, serial number and name of the assembly constituency. But many citizens are complaining their trips to BangaloreOne centres haven’t been fruitful. “When I visited the Jayanagar BangaloreOne centre, I was asked to come back after a week as the password required to access the voter ID details was locked,” said Sushma R, who went to collect her mother’s card.
 
 Dhanajay Upadhaya said in tweet to CEO Karnataka: “JP Nagar BangaloreOne centre has turned me down in the last three weeks saying the server is weak. Guide me how to collect the voter id.”
 
