What does global warming have to do with the many dead fish that washed ashore near Mumbai a few months ago? The two are connected by the very breath of life—oxygen.

 Recently, a team of international scientists raised the alarm about shrinking oxygen in the world’s oceans and its potential impact on marine life. They found dead zones had increased four-fold since the 1950s due to nutrient pollution and warming temperatures.
 
 A major region of concern is the   which hosts two large low-oxygen zones. One, the world’s thickest “oxygen minimum zone”, lies in the open ocean. The other is even closer to India, a seasonal phenomenon that is one of the largest coastal low-oxygen zones in the world—and responsible for the fish kills that was ashore.
 
 This seasonal zone forms along India’s west coast every year when the summer monsoon brings in oxygen-poor, nutrient-rich waters over the continental shelf.
 
 The upwelling coincides with vast amounts of freshwater flowing into the sea due to the monsoon. The freshwater floats atop the saline waters creating a layer of low oxygen water at shallow depths, explains SWA  , former head of the   (NIO). Many fish are able to flee this choking layer. But others get caught and die.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Ironically, this monsoon upwelling is also what makes west coast fisheries more productive than east coast. The upwelling brings up nutrients from the deep that nourish the marine food chain, notes Mahesh Zingde, former head of NIO’s Mumbai centre. This leads to bumper catches in the late-post-monsoon months when the water is flush with oxygen again.
 
 The temporary drop in oxygen levels, however, doesn’t only lead to mass fish kills—the dead zone is a hotspot of nitrous oxide (N2O), a powerful greenhouse gas that also damages the ozone layer. Nitrous oxide is produced when lack of oxygen forces bacteria to switch to using other elements like nitrogen to degrade organic matter.
 
 Naqvi’s studies have shown that the seasonal dead zone produces some of the highest N20 concentrations in the oceans. The west coast waters cover an area comprising only 0.05% of the world’s oceans yet may contribute between 0.4-21% of nitrous oxide emissions.
 
 That makes any change in this region important. Warmer temperatures, increased nutrients from land run-off and air pollution, and even changes in monsoon wind have all been linked to potential intensification of dead zones.
 
 Studies show that lowoxygen conditions on the Indian west coast intensified in the 1990s compared with the 1970s, perhaps due to increased fertiliser run-off. Such pollution produces nutrients which stimulate excessive plant growth that, on decomposition, gobbles up all the oxygen.
 
 However, the data does not show any clear trend for the past 15-plus years, says Naqvi, only inter-annual variability. This may seem surprising given rising fertiliser use in India. One explanation is that estuaries are acting as a sink for nutrients.
 
 The other low-oxygen zone close to India lies in the middle of the Arabian Sea. A 2014 study showed the sudden growth in this zone of an algae called Noctiluca that flourishes in lower-oxygen conditions. Helga Gomes, the study co-author and research scientist at   in New York, said their data also showed a decline in oxygen levels in the upper water column.
 
 Such changes could affect marine fisheries because Noctiluca is a competitor for food serving the lower rungs of the food chain, Gomes noted. These changes could also affect the planet since dead zones play a role in global nitrogen and carbon cycles.
 
 Naqvi, now with the Council for Scientific & Industrial Research, is cautious about deoxygenation trends in the Arabian Sea. He says this region has seen smaller losses in oxygen. But even small changes can trigger larger ones, he notes.
 
 
