KOLKATA:   can now be charged on the go, thanks to a solar charging system designed by the Centre for Green Energy at  . The ministry of human resources development-funded project is aimed at improving the battery life of the vehicles by ensuring less energy depletion.

 The product is ready to hit the market following a collaboration that IIEST has entered with a solar panel giant and an entrepreneurial venture of two Phd students, who were also part of the project. The solar panel, developed by the IIEST faculty and researchers, can charge e-rickshaws through the day even as passengers are being ferried. That way, the drivers or owners will no longer have to wait till they call it a day to charge the totos, as they are popularly called.
 
 Currently, each vehicle has to be charged for about 10 hours at a stretch for a run of maximum 85km if a proper procedure is followed; the electric chargers are provided at the time of the purchase. “A driver usually puts his vehicle on charge only when the battery is completely depleted, ignoring the earlier warning signals given out when the battery is left with merely 15%-20% charge. This affects the battery life. Around eight months later, the battery gives up and the driver has to spend another Rs 30,000 for a replacement,” said Joydip Jana, lead researcher of the project. In contrast to the electric chargers, the solar panel can enable the toto to run at least 120km on a go. Moreover, as the panel will constantly charge the battery, preventing the charge to drop below a certain level, the battery will last 18 months.
 
 Along with Jana, another researcher, Hiranmay Samanta, worked on the project under the guidance of faculty members   and Konika Das Bhattacharya.
 
 IIEST has tied up with Arc, a company that manufactures  . The panels will be installed on the institute’s rooftop to help produce grid power to run the appliances. While IIEST will provide the know-how and control quality, Arc will manufacture the panels. Researchers Jana and Samanta’s startup Resolz, which is being incubated at IIEST, is also participating in a tender process —meant for solar power charging stations—floated by NKDA for New Town.
 
 “Jana and Samanta were trying to perfect solar panels for lanterns being used in villages under the MHRD rural technologies scheme. We diversified our research to include solar panels for the e-vehicles,” Das Bhattacharya said. Even the solar charging panels for the lanterns are ready and IIEST is teaming with IIT Kharagpur to instal them in Purulia villages.
 
