The latest episode of   starts with  's mom Sakshi telling   to forgive her for whatever happened on his birthday. Aditya then tells her that he knows that she would never hurt him knowingly.   tries to feed   but she refuses to eat. Meanwhile, the employees of Zosh events arrive to meet Zoya in the hospital and Aditya tells them to cheer Zoya up. The entire team brings delicious food for Zoya, but she refuses to eat.

 Aditya tries to make Zoya eat and takes the food by himself. Aditya then signals the employees to ask Zoya when she will return to office. Zoya tells everyone that she wants to rest for a while and the employees leave. Aditya feels sorry for Zoya's condition and walks out of the room. Aditya sees the inspector standing out and informs Aditya that he has heard that Zoya attempted suicide. Aditya tries to convince the cops by telling them that it was just an accident, but the cops indirectly accuse Aditya of Zoya's condition. They tell him that he purposely planned everything so he would get all the insurance money.
 
  decides to go to the hospital and meet Aditya and Zoya. Meanwhile, Arjun sees his father Harshvardhan Hooda walking out of his room and sees the drawer open. Arjun starts checking the drawer and finds the diary. He then finds out that some pages from the diary are missing and feels suspicious. On the other hand, the police in Mussoorie gets the order to clean up the pond in which Pooja and Yash's car fell so that they could get proofs.
 
 Arjun reaches the hospital and on the other hand, the employees of the company are worried as the company will be shut. Aditya tells the employees to send some cheques to Zoya for cross-checking, but Mahi tells Aditya that Zoya is going to Mussoorie.
 
 Zoya starts preparing to leave and Aditya runs to stops her. He then tells Zoya that she made the promises to the employees and cannot leave midway. Aditya further accuses her of being selfish. He then tells Zoya that he will sack everyone and also sell the company. But Zoya does not respond and along with Noor walks up.
 
 
