CHANDIGARH: The arterial road running between sectors 38C and 38D towards the park before Shri Guru Harkrishan Model School has a dangerous blind-turn and witnesses frequent vehicular accidents.

 The stretch of the road after crossing the market of Sector 38D on the right, takes a steep right turn, next to Sanatan Dharam Mandir. This has been the point of uncertainty for the everyday commuters and pedestrians of this area ever since this section of the sector came into existence.
 
 The turn, which is unfortunately too long and curvy, completely   or  . Sometimes, when the vehicle are driven at a higher pace, not adhering to the required driving discipline, the probability of a fatal accident at this point increases manifold. “This turn is really dangerous, both during the rush hours and during the time of low vehicular activity. This is because during rush hours, the risk for the pedestrians and frequent collision increases. During other times, the driver might not anticipate an approaching vehicle from the other side and may meet with an accident. This has happened here a number of times too,” said  , a senior-citizen from the locality.
 
 With the arterial road approaching towards the residential pockets of the sector, traffic is always seen operating on it. “Accidents between bikers and cars at this particular stretch are far too common. I have seen so many of them. They were all due to this very problem that they cannot see the vehicle approaching from the other side,” said a shopkeeper. 
 
 The presence of three schools on this road and a temple makes it even more important for the road to have at leaast two-three sets of speedbreakers, a reflector on the left to project an approaching vehicle from the other side and also, a board displaying a cautionary warning, informing people to drive slow while plying on this stretch, as shared by a group of residents sitting in the park. “In the afternoon, too many school buses ply here. At the same time, parents are seen fetching their children from the nearby schools in cars and two-wheelers. Many of them also do that on foot. Hence, the danger is real and needs to be taken care of. I once had an accident right at the edge of the curve of the turn, where my bike was hit by a car. I got severely bruised,” said  , a resident.
 
 Vice-president of Sector 38 RWA   said, “We had our RWA meeting almost two weeks ago and we did discuss this problem too. We will get this done soon.”
 
 
