RAE BARELI: UPA chairperson   reached her parliamentary constituency here on Tuesday, after a gap of almost two years. Her last visit was on June 16, 2016.

 While officials said that she had come to dedicate several developmental works undertaken through her MPLAD, sources revaled that Sonia was in the district to take stock of her party's situation.   district president VK Shukla said that Sonia was to chair a meeting of the district implementation and monitoring committees slated to take place on Wednesday.
 
 “She will take stock of pending projects besides evaluating future projects," Shukla said. The projects include rail coach factory, mint park,   AIIMS among others.
 
 Meanwhile, her son and Congress president  , who is already in neighbouring Amethi, will join her at the Bhuemau guest house where the duo will put up. "Rahul would attend this meeting because salon, a part of his parliamentary constituency   falls in Rae Bareli district," Shukla stated.
 
 Sources, however, said that Sonia was trying to assess whether she should contest the 2019 Lok Sabha elections or not. "It is for this that Sonia had called all district functionaries soon after she reached here," sources said. When asked to comment on this, Shukla said, "the party high command would take a call on this."
 
 Another reason for her visit is the party's losing base in Rae Bareli. Its MLC Dinesh Singh and his two brothers Harchandpur MLA Rakesh Singh and zila Panchayat chairperson Avadhesh Singh have already left the party and are likely to join BJP later this month.
 
 Sonia reached Fursatganj airport at 6 pm and headed straight to the guest house. Soon after her arrival, a group of doctors came to meet her for inauguration of recently constructed IMA Bhavan. Thereafter, she also met some old loyals and party workers.
 
 Everyone was surprises when former minister in SP government and MLA from Unchahar, Manoj Pandey, paid a visit to her. While he claimed that he had come to invite Sonia for his house warming function, Manoj didn't rule out the possibility of a switch-over. On being asked to comment, Pandey said, "I shall update you all when time arrives." Rahul Gandhi joined her after 9 pm.
 
