PATNA: Like in the past, residents of various cities in the state have started experiencing acute shortage of potable   this summer too. With the jump in population and increasing demand for water, the groundwater resources are depleting fast and a large number of households in various cities get only limited access to safe drinking water.

 Groundwater experts said at least eight cities, including Patna, would face severe water crisis in the near future. “Gaya and Bhagalpur are already experiencing declining groundwater levels and consequent water scarcity. Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Ara, Munger and Biharsharif may also face the crisis in near future,” they said.
 
 According to a study conducted by the   (CGWB), groundwater reservoirs in as many as 11 blocks of the state are in semi-critical condition. These blocks are Gaya sadar, Rajgir and Nagarnausa in Nalanda district, Meskaur in Nawada, Kurtha in Arwal, Birpur and Naokothi in Begusarai, Masaurhi and   in Patna, Mushhari in Muzaffarpur and Tajpur in Samastipur district. “These blocks would be in critical condition as soon as the development stage exceeds 90%,” the study suggests.
 
 “The water scarcity is more pronounced in the cities located in the marginal alluvial plain area where the aquifers are not recharged fully owing to less than normal rainfall in the region. People residing in Gaya, Nawada, Aurangabad, Munger and the area bordering Jharkhand have to suffer much owing to deepening water crisis,” said former CGWB regional director Shambhu Nath. 
 
 As far as Patna is concerned, the water table has reportedly gone down by 10 to 15 feet in recent years. “Overexploitation of groundwater through deep tube wells is getting the groundwater reservoir depleted faster than it is being replenished. For a city of nearly 25 lakh people, already facing a major water crisis, the rapid depletion of groundwater would spell doom,” the CGWB scientists said.
 
 In the last few years, many shallow tube wells have got dried up during the summer months with sands filling the pipes, leading to complete breakdown of tube wells. Though the average annual rainfall in Patna is fairly high (about 1,000mm per annum), the bulk of rainwater is lost through surface run off. Things have worsened due to the gradual disappearance of ponds and other open surface water bodies that helped recharge the groundwater reservoir through slow seepage,” said environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh.
 
 Gaya urban area with a population of more than 4 lakh people depends largely on groundwater. Due to limited recharge from scanty rainfall and the alarming water table decline in the underlying aquifer system, the situation has become worse. There is a decline in water level in the Falgu river bed too.
 
 In Bhagalpur urban area, the groundwater level has reportedly declined by 4 to 5 metres in the last four to five decades as the maximum stress of water supply lies on a single deep aquifer in the city.
 
 “Even though there is no considerable decline in the piezometric head in Muzaffarpur urban area, the future demand of the irrigation draft in the fringe area is alarming and demands a sustainable urban water management. The piezometric head of the deeper aquifers must be maintained by recharging them adequately through a large number of rooftop rainwater harvesting structures,” said an expert.
 
 
