HASSAN: It was a black harvest festival for  , whose only grandson was trampled to death by a tusker close to her house in  , early on Sunday.

 S  , 14, who had come to his grandmother's house at Kodagathavalli village in Alur taluk to celebrate  , died a day after he arrived. Incidentally, Jayamma lost her son a year ago.
 
 Bharat, a student of  , had come directly to his grandmother's house from school in Hassan, on Saturday evening.
 
 On Sunday morning, Bharat's friends had come to meet him and after spending some time in the house, they went out to play. Unaware of the tusker's movement in the area, the group was playing in a field near the house. 
 
 The elephant, which was moving behind the bushes, suddenly charged at the children. While Bharat's friends managed to escape the charging jumbo, a frightened Bharat couldn't run. The tusker caught him up and dragged him for around 200 metres before trampling his head.
 
 Villagers who heard the children crying for help, rushed to the spot. The villagers tried to rescue Bharat from the tusker by throwing stones and making loud sounds, but their efforts failed. Before they could drive the elephant away, Bharat was killed. 
 
 Villagers said Bharat's father   had died due to bad health last year, and the boy was living with his mother in Hassan. He would visit his grandmother during holidays. The villagers informed the forest department and Alur police, who rushed to the spot. 
 
 ACF   told TOI that they plan to chase the tusker back into the woods. "We suspect the tusker had come from   forest area. We informed forest officers in  , who agreed to send elephants from their camps to drive the tusker back into the forest," he said. 
 
 The forest department also announced Rs 5 lakh compensation for the family of the victim. 
 
 Alur police, meanwhile, registered a case and handed Bharat's body to his family after postmortem. 
 
 Villagers complained that for the past two months, a tusker which had separated from the herd was roaming near the villages. They had complained to forest officials who failed to take any action to drive the elephant into the woods.
 
 The villagers who held an impromptu protest had heated arguments with forest officers for their failure to take action.
 
  Sakleshpura MLA HK Kumaraswamy, who rushed to the spot, managed to convince the villagers to call off the protest.
 
 
