CHENNAI: When   took over as Chennaiyin FC’s coach at the start of the season, he had Marco Materazzi’s big boots to fill into. Under Materazzi, Chennaiyin made the semis in first season, emerged champions in the next before finishing seventh in the league last season. Not only Gregory had to live up to the reputation of Materazzi but also had to restore the side’s confidence. To make matters worse, he was returning to coaching after a two-year sabbatical due to a heart surgery.

 
 After winning half of the 20 matches, including the two-legged semifinals, and entering the ISL-4 final, Chennaiyin’s Dadu (grandfather), as he is fondly called by his players, proved that he still has the managerial skills intact which took him to clubs like Aston Villa and Queens Park Rangers in his coaching career of over 25 years. In fact, Gregory had taken Villa to the 2000 FA Cup final but could never cross the hurdle. Gregory, who now stands just a step away from winning the   trophy, says a win on Saturday against Bengaluru FC might prove as a balm. Accordingly, he has already started planning for the big game.
 
 “We haven’t done anything yet. People talk about enjoying the final, but you enjoy it only if you win it. We will just go about our job. We do not have any fitness concerns. We have people who have won the ISL before. Their experience should help us in the final. If we win, it will help in reducing some of the 2000 FA Cup loss pain,” Gregory said.
 
 Chennaiyin, though, had made a false start under Gregory, who was also banned for three matches later in the tournament as a result of verbal altercation with a referee. Chennaiyin conceded three goals in the first half of their first match before Gregory changed the side’s formation from 4-4-1-1 to 4-2-3-1 and built his side around the experienced defenders. It worked wonders as Chennaiyin were the third most miserly side after BFC and Jamshedpur FC, conceding only 20 goals. Gregory also focused on the side’s fitness. That his boys have scored 12 of their 28 goals in the final 15 minutes speaks about the quality in the side.
 
 However, the British coach said the battle is not over yet. Bengaluru have in-form strikers Miku (14 goals) and Sunil Chhetri (13), who scored a hat-trick in the semifinal second leg, in their ranks and CFC defenders will have to prove themselves for one last time.
 
 “Football-wise, we might not be technically gifted but our players are difficult to play against. We put a lot of faith in our defence and we’ve got endurance. We’ve got three experienced foreign players and a 19-year-old left-back in our defence. We’ve worked on our positional sense and they took my advice well. We are not planning for Chhetri only. Bengaluru are a very good team and they play a bit like Goa. So we will be ready,” Gregory said.
 
 Apart from emphasizing on defensive organization and fitness, Gregory has also insisted on building a good team spirit, gave his players freedom and backed non-performers like Jeje Lalpekhlua regularly, the few things which he did to once take Villa to the top of the Premier League back in 1998/99. In the end, his players repaid his faith.
 
 “Before playing Mumbai, I was going to start with an entirely new backline. As we went about training, Calderon and Sereno coached the four boys to give them confidence and we emerged winners in the game. That’s the sort of guys I have in my team. Jeje was always working hard and I did tell him that he will score twice in the semis. He didn’t disappoint,” Gregory said with a smile.
 
 With Gregory stitching together a winning combination, he is likely to get an extension irrespective of the result in the final.
 
