LUCKNOW: The   was cracked on Wednesday with the arrest of three persons, including the  . Three other  .

 On Sunday morning, bodies of two sisters, aged about 8 and 13, were recovered from the Sharda canal in Hargaon area. The body of girls’ mother, Veena (name changed), who was initially reported missing, was found on Tuesday. Police had found five glasses in the victims’ home, suggesting that four five to men had visited the place.
 
 Locals told police that a businessman Naveen Gupta often came to stay with Veena. Naveen was later picked up from his house at Awas Vikas colony in Sitapur.
 
 During probe, police learnt that Veena had separated five years ago from her husband, who lives in Hardoi, and came to Sitapur with her daughters. In Sitapur, Veena met Naveen and the two came close soon.
 
 Naveen told police that he felt dejected when Veena, 34, started wooing another man who was known to him.
 
 He hatched a conspiracy with his friends — Dileep, Pankaj, Rahul, Mukesh and Zubair — to eliminate Veena. “The accused arranged for vehicles in advance. They bought jute sacks, gathered broken bricks and salt packets at Naveen’s shop located near Nepalpur crossing,” said SP Sitapur Sureshrao Kulkarni. On Saturday night, Naveen took Veena to his shop where his five friends were already present. The accused strangulated Veena with a computer cable. The accused then went to Veena’s house. Naveen told Veena’s two daughters that he had come to take them out for dinner. The other accused stayed back at the house and consumed liquor while Naveen took the girls to his shop.
 
 He was soon joined by other accused. The accused then assaulted the 13-year-old girl and strangled her. The younger girl was also strangulated with a computer cable. The accused dumped Veena’s body in Sarayan, a tributary of Gomti river while the girls’ bodies were thrown in Sharda canal. Police have arrested Naveen, Zubair and Dileep. IG Lucknow range Jai Narain Singh announced a reward for the the team that cracked the case.
 
