MYSURU: Applauding the efforts of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), principal district and sessions judge P G M Patil said the onus of keeping the city clean and green lies not only on the shoulders of civic workers, but also on public.

 Patil was addressing the gathering after inaugurating the ‘Swachhata Pakhwada’ under Swachh Abhiyan – 2018, organized by the directorate of field publicity, Mysuru, in association with the district administration and MCC on the city   premises here on Tuesday.
 
 The government has taken a good initiative to create awareness on cleanliness by involving local officials and people in the Swachh Abhiyan. People should keep their surroundings clean in order to avoid diseases and other problems. The Bar Association will always support such awareness programmes and in the following days, such cleanliness drives will also be held in court premises, said Patil.
 
 MCC commissioner G Jagadeesha said, “We have approached all the 580 schools that are located in the city and formed nature and cleanliness clubs in each school to create awareness among the students. The corporation also opened 13 public toilets in crowded areas and linked them with the public toilet locator application.”
 
 “We request all the citizens to give a positive feedback by calling 1969 (citizen feedback number). Our target is to make more than three lakh calls for citizen feedback. Last year we lost marks in lack of public involvement in the Swachhata Abhiyan. People can upload pictures of lack of garbage maintenance and other cleanliness issues in their areas through the swachhata app, where complaints will be solved within 12 hours from the time of complaint received, however, the public response is very poor,” Jagadeesha said.
 
 After the cleanliness drive on the city court premises, Justice Patil flagged off a jatha off from the court. Nearly 350 employees from the city court took part in the jatha. Additional judge Basavaraja V, III additional district and sessions judge S Sudindranath and directorate of field publicity, Mysuru, assistant director T S Poornima were present.
 
 
