NAGPUR: In a first verdict under coal allocation scam case of UPA regime, Nagpur businessman Ashok Daga, director of Gondwana  , was held guilty by a special CBI court on Friday. He has been taken into custody and the sentence will be pronounced on May 1.

 A number of businessmen from the city have been named in the case. The maximum number of coal blocks had gone to companies from the city under the allocation system that was later replaced by competitive bidding.
 
 Gondwana Ispat was allotted the Majra coal block in Chandrapur district. Daga has been found guilty of misrepresenting the facts and also eventually selling his stake in the company to which the coal block was allotted. His cousin  , a prominent businessman from Nagpur, was also a director in the firm. There has been no prosecution against him. Ashok had carried out the formalities for getting the block allotted.
 
 Ashok has been held guilty of misrepresenting the fact by applying for the coal block in the name of a company which was non-existent at that time. Gondwana Ispat was not incorporated at the time of application, said a source in the legal team representing him. 
 
 Daga eventually sold his stake in Gondwana Ispat to another businessman from the city   and got nearly Rs1.5 crore in the deal. Sarda on other hand already had a stake in B S Ispat which was also allotted coal blocks in Chandrapur district.
 
 After Daga sold his stake, Gondwana Ispat merged into B S Ispat. At that time B S Ispat was held by three persons Govind Daga, Nandkishore Sarda and  . The trio are businessmen from the city. Later the three sold their entire stake in   which also had Gondwana merged in it, to a listed company, Oriental Castings Ltd (OCL). Nearly Rs300 crore are expected to have changed hands in the deal. The matter was reported by TOI in February 2012. 
 
 The matter is being investigated under the prevention of money laundering act (PMLA) by the enforcement directorate. Prosecution has not begun in this case though questions are being raised.
 
 
