Malati Murmu, Suruyu Soren, Parbati Hembram, Shyamali Mandi, Sukumari Hembram and Fulmoni Hembrom — all in their late teens — were holding each other’s hands, tapping their feet. Their bodies swayed in the traditional Santhal style to the beat resonating from the loudspeakers placed in the courtyard of the mud shack in  , a village tucked in the woods of Jhargram. It was 4 in the morning, but the young dancers, who started their moves around 11 the previous night, were far from tired.

 After all, it was the night of theatre,  , hosted by Trimukhi Platform, an organisation that brings together artistes from outside to collaborate with those from the tribal community for unique art projects. “I met Jean-Federic Chevallier, the man behind the initiative, years ago in a nearby church. Since I knew a bit of English I was asked to take him around. I have been a part of Trimukhi ever since,” said Girish Soren, a young man from the village. Like every year, artistes from all over the world teamed up with Chevallier and other members of Trimukhi this year to present theatre, choreography, sound installations, photography and other forms of art.
 
 
 
 The evening began with the villagers gathering by a waterbody for the play Jol-i Jibon or La Vie Dans L’eau. As the waterbody became a stage, the young performers displayed an enchanting act supported by light and shadow. With minimal props, director Jean Federic and collaborator, Surujmoni, also created a fascinating soundscape. Ikue Nakagawa, a Japanese dancer from Brussels, presented a dance-theatre solo. These were followed by a sound installation by Andre Eric Letourneau, a French Canadian media artiste. Later, a group of tribal dancers presented a performance led by Tibru Murmu and Falguni Hasda.
 
 “I met Jean-Federic in 2008,” said Samantak Das, professor of comparative literature,  . “There are two hurdles that mar urban-tribal artistic collaborations. First, there’s the uncritical acceptance of tribal arts. For example, when we watch baul, raybenshe or gambhira, we tend to follow it as it is. The second is when we impose our understanding of art on theirs and call it collaboration. But with Federic, it’s collaborative in its true sense. I’ve never seen him imposing his ideas on anyone.”
 
 The audience was very impressed, with  , an independent researcher from UC Berkeley, saying, “I can feel every moment of the night. From the performances to the dinner on the mud-washed courtyard, each aspect was amazing.”
 
 
