BENGALURU: Two of Indian Super League’s frenetic fan groups - West Block Blues and B-Stand Blues - created a rambunctious atmosphere at the packed Sree Kanteerava Stadium on Saturday night in what was a fitting finale to the league’s here in Bengaluru.

 
 
 
 
 The chanting terraces of the West Block stand, the passionate supporters of  , to the East Block on the opposite end - which the travelling B-Stand fans had made their own - were awash in blue as the noise inside the 25,000-capacity stadium was deafening. Fans left no stone unturned in the run-up to the mega showdown between the South Indian clubs.
 
 Banners were planned and chants were practised while Whatsapp football groups kept buzzing over who would ultimately win the bragging rights. Hours before kick-off, a mini carnival unfolded outside the Kanteerava Stadium.
 
 Cheering Bengaluru fans - faces painted in their club colours - waved flags and scarves, sang chants and made merry. Chennaiyin supporters, who had arrived in packed buses overnight to support their ‘Marina Machans’, joined in on the chanting wars to give their Bengaluru counterparts a tough fight.
 
  
  
 Matchday buzz was not limited to the ‘Fortress’ alone as Bengaluru fans the world over, in cities such as London, New York and Dusseldorf got together to arrange screenings at their local pubs. Current and former stars across sporting disciplines poured in their wishes for both teams on Twitter as the match hogged eyeballs across social networking sites.
 
 The West Block, renowned for their unique banners and tifos, didn’t disappoint again. Strict rules limited the size of the banners for the final, but that didn’t deter the home fans from unfurling a massive 8,000 square feet tifos of the Grim Reaper superimposed on the iconic Gandeberunda, a two-headed mythological bird that also doubles up as the Blues’ club insignia.
 
 On a night when their heroes battled on the ground in pursuit of glory, the fans played their role to perfection in what was a perfect spectacle for football.
 
