Fan frenzy isn’t new to us… We, who’ve seen fans doing palabhishekam on huge cutouts of their favourite films stars, and conducting special puja before the release of their favourite stars’ films. It isn’t any different when it comes to our cricketers. And now that   has reached the IPL final, fans are going all out to ensure namma team wins. Lucky charms, prayers, looking out for omens, they’re doing all this and more!
As soon as CSK’s playoff match against   (SRH) got over on Tuesday, Lakshmi Thangadurai, a young CSK fan from Chennai, posted on her social media page, ‘Wowwwww... Lesson Learnt... Never Switch Off TV wen CSK is Chasing.. what a Match #csk_rocks #faf’. Social media was flooded with such messages. Ask her about her “switch off TV” post, and she smiles, “The matches CSK plays always have nail-biting finishes and more than me, it’s my mother who gets excited. If she’s sitting cross-legged while watching the match and a wicket of the opponent team falls, she continues to sit that way, saying more wickets will fall if she sits cross-legged throughout the match (laughs). So, that’s the level of her anxiety and admiration for the team.”
 There are several fans like Lakshmi’s mother, who believe that if they do certain things or abstain from doing certain other things, it will bring success to CSK. Another young fan of the Chennai team, Sharan Raj, says, “A bunch of us, who are CSK fans, still have with us an old flag which we got from the team management in 2010, the year CSK lifted the IPL cup the first time. Every time we watch a crucial CSK match, we keep it next to us. We believe that it brings the team good luck. I also have an autographed poster of Dhoni, which I always carry with me for all CSK matches. Today, we will be performing archanai at the Anjaneya Temple in Nanganallur,” says Sharan, who, along with his friends, are organising the screening of the finals at a resort on ECR.
 For Akash Shritharan, an engineering student, his mother is the lucky charm. “Every time CSK plays, I ensure that she watches the match. She isn’t that interested in cricket, but I force her to watch. In fact, I’ve brought her with me to watch the finals at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. I’d to do a bit of emotional blackmailing to bring her to Mumbai,” he laughs. Vaishnavi Srinivasan, a college student, tells us that whenever she crosses her fingers, something good happens to the team. “Yes, it really works (smiles). Another thing is that I am an atheist, but I pray even without me even realising it when CSK faces a tough situation,” she says. 
 Interestingly, the team enjoys fan following not just in Chennai, but in other parts of the state as well. One among them from Coimbatore, S Vignesh, a chemical engineer, says, “We use an app to live-stream the match. If it buffers, we know that the team will lose. It has happened many times. Another thing is that only two of us, roommates, watch the match live; the third one sits in another room even though he’s also an ardent CSK fan. In the last couple of matches, when he sat with us to watch it live, we lost. So, we ensure that he doesn’t watch it live with us.” Another fan, Vaibhav R, from Ooty, tells us that the phrase ‘All is well’ does wonders. “Even during the last match, when CSK was almost losing, I kept saying this and finally, Faf (Faf du Plessis) turned things around in our team’s favour.”
 Thrishla Lunawat from Coimbatore says that though she’s an ardent CSK fan, her husband supports Mumbai Indians. “So, you can imagine how things will be at home during the matches,” she chuckles, and adds, I have this feeling that CSK wickets fall if I switch channels during the match. So, I don’t let anyone touch the remote also. I watch the entire match and don’t even mute the sound when the match is on.” On the other hand, Srinivasan R, another resident of Coimbatore, says that the score 111 is a bad omen for the team. “CSK’s score shouldn’t be 111 at any point of time. It should cross that number without touching it. We’ve always lost the match whenever the score has touched 111,” he says.
 
