KOLKATA: For a few students, faring well in ISC wasn’t just about studying hard. It was about tackling personal obstacles as well. Some, like   Samal and Dyuti Lahiri, may not have ranked among the toppers, but they have done well enough to make themselves proud.

 
  
 
 A student of Calctta Boys’ High School, Rohan lost his father hours before his Hindi examination. But he still sat for the test and scored a decent 63%. “My father had been in hospital and passed away barely four hours before my examination. I did consider skipping it, but then I felt that my father wouldn’t have been happy with the decision. So I chose to filter out everything around me and focus on the test. It was difficult, but it worked. And I am proud to have been able to do that,” said Rohan.
 
 Rohan, who had wanted to leave the city earlier, has now changed his mind and plans to study law in Kolkata.
 
 “I must stay in Kolkata to be with my mother. I have already qualified for a law entrance test and hope to be able to get into a good college. This setback has made me tougher and prepared me for eventualities in future. I feel more mature, confident and responsible now. I am determined to do even better in future,” Rohan added.
 
 If Rohan overcame the loss of a parent, Dyuti tackled her dyslexia to score a creditable 70%. The Heritage School student, whose father is a doctor, struggled hard to fight her learning  , but never gave up. She scored a remarkable 81% in sociology, which, according to her schoolteachers, is incredible. Dyuti now plans to take up either sociology or English.
 
 “Dyuti wouldn’t have been able to get this far without her hard work and mother’s support,” said her father Kaushik Lahiri, a dermatologist, adding: “Her teachers in school also helped. But Dyuti was ready to work hard and she did. Her principal Seema Sapru, her class teacher and coordinator also helped. Her mother was always there by her side. All of them went the extra mile to help Dyuti achieve success,” her father added.
 
 Dyuti is happy with her result and believes she can do even better in college.
 
 “I am ready to take up sociology, psychology or English, depending on where I get through. I am keeping my options open and hoping for the best,” she said, before joining her friends for an evening of celebration.
 
