KOLKATA: Eight large generators and a dozen smaller ones have been positioned in different parts of Kolkata and Howrah to restore supply as soon as possible in case there’s a power outage. With examinations under three boards — Madhyamik, CISCE and CBSE — under way during the season of Nor’westers, when gales uproot trees and snap power lines, CESC said it had positioned special teams in localities with overhead supplies that are susceptible to disruption.

 Speaking to TOI, CESC vice-president (distribution services) Avijit Ghosh said the utility had taken a series of steps to strengthen the distribution system and ensure uninterrupted supply during the examination period — not just at exam halls, but also at homes. Around 17 lakh appear for the examinations in the state. From Kolkata, the number of examinees will be approximately 8% or 1.4 lakh and there will be over 410 examination centres.
 
 
  
 
 “We are deploying more than 150 radio-fitted mobile vans that will operate 24×7. Our officers will be manning the command centre from where transformer load and voltage can be constantly monitored to take pre-emptive action, track every fault and help the repair van with GPRS to facilitate quick resumption of supply.
 
 CESC expects the average load during the three exam months to increase by 5%. In February, the average requirement is pegged to go up from 1,533MW last year to 1,600MW this year. It will go up from 1,730MW to 1,840MW in March and in April, it will be 2,050MW against 1,980MW. Against last year’s peak of 2,159MW in June, the estimated peak this year is 2,220MW.
 
 CESC said its preparations began in November and continued till early February. During these two months, it augmented the network and transformers, laid and replaced cables and trimmed trees in areas with overhead supply. While most of Kolkata and Howrah have underground power cables, pockets like Behala, Jadavpur, Topsia, Tiljala, Metiabruz, Budge Budge, Maheshtala and   have overhead lines.
 
 “We are aware that the exams are on and don’t wantany disruption in the examinees’ study schedule. We will ensure that,” said Ghosh.
 
