Vadodara: This Wednesday, one of the city’s most celebrated friendships will be revived and etched in the public memory forever. 

 A plaque renaming the road connecting Laxmi Vilas Palace Gate with Kirti Stambh will be inaugurated by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC). The road has been named after Maharaja Chamarajendra Wadiyar of Mysore who shared close friendship with Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III of erstwhile Baroda state. 
 
 Wadiyar visited Baroda state in 1887 and the road leading to Laxmi Vilas Palace was named after him on February 7, 1888. Wadiyar too had named a road in Mysore after Maharaja Sayajirao. “When I visited Mysore in 2015, I learnt that a road there was named after Maharaja Sayajirao following which I called up Samarjitsinh Gaekwad. He told me that that a road in Vadodara too had been named after Wadiyar. Coincidentally, I was posted here as a municipal commissioner within a month after that,” Dr Vinod Rao, municipal commissioner, told TOI.
 
 “It was one of my dreams to revive the cherished memory between Gaekwad and Wadiyar. We will inaugurate the plaque on February 7 that will mark 130 years of the friendship of two kings,” Rao said. TOI had reported in 2015 that the civic body had put up a new board opposite the Laxmi Vilas Palace gate declaring the road opposite it as Maharishi Dayanand Saraswati Marg. The register on roads that VMC maintains stated that the road was named as Maharishi Dayanand Saraswati Marg after a resolution was passed in the civic body on January 29, 1990. 
 
 Heritage lovers from the city including great grandnephew of Maharaja Sayajirao, Jeetendrasinh Gaekwad and Nawabzada Shariq Saiyed, descendant of the family that served Gaekwadi courts, had urged the authorities to retain the road’s original name. Rao ensured that the city’s heritage survives. 
 
 Street lights on dividers being removed
 
 The street lights installed on dividers on the road between Laxmi Vilas Palace and Kirti Stambh are being removed by VMC. Municipal commissioner Dr Vinod Rao said the street lights were blocking a striking view of Laxmi Vilas Palace gate and hence VMC decided to remove them. 
 
 
