YAVATMAL: District guardian minister   admitted in an emergency meeting that regular   would not be possible in   till July end, urging officials to plan accordingly to combat the prevailing drinking water shortage. A meeting was held in the district collector’s office on Sunday and was chaired by Yerawar himself.

 Some important decisions taken in the meeting include keeping water filling point in MIDC-based water treatment plant open for 24 hours for tankers to fill water, a time table be prepared for tankers to fill water from the point, appointment of plumbers and deputing cops to monitor tankers, chief officer should immediately demand additional tankers from district collector, start a helpline at the MC office and revive the defunct helpline of district collectorate, publish tanker numbers and mobile phone numbers of the tanker drivers and the wards allotted to them, prepare a roster for the tankers and set up a special squad to oversee regular water supply by the tankers, water supply to slum areas.
 
 The minister has promised to address any difficulty that may arise in the coming days. He has warned the tanker drivers of action if they are found in any ward other than the allotted ones.
 
 He has also instructed the SDO to call meeting of concerned representatives of peripheral villages like Kinhi, Bhosa and Dolamba where there are water sources and finalize schemes to fetch water from those sources to cater to the needs of the citizens. 
 
 Residents of Yavatmal had been put through untold miseries arising out of non supply of drinking water and damaged roads that had been lying unattended for several weeks. The question of Bembla water too took a back foot as residents would have to fetch water from 25-30 km distance which would be impossible. 
 
 The meeting was attended by divisional commissioner Piyush Singh, district collector Chandraakant Jaju, ZP CEO  , RDC Narendra Fulzele, executive engineer of MJP Ajay Bele, SDO of Yavatmal Swapnil Tangade, MC chief officer Anil Adhagale, executive engineer of  , heads of various departments and officials from MIDC. However, deputy district guardian minister   was absent.
 
 
