Social reformer Basavanna is oft-heard in the election rhetoric unravelling across the state, with the   government’s move to grant religious minority status to Lingayats, his followers, sparking off an identity crisis of sorts in the community.

 
 But his contemporary and comrade-in-arms Akka Mahadevi’s name is conspicuous by its absence.  , whose new book Sky-Clad is a biography of  , says the saint may not be an overt symbol of politics, but “a symbol of revolt against oppression”.
 
 Akka’s defiance of society and societal mores ensures that she continues to be a feminist icon right into the 21st century. Her vachanas resonate with modern-day poets and poetesses. “She’s been a great source of inspiration for contemporary women writers,” notes writer and translator Vanamala Viswanatha, who based the essay ‘Between Amma and Akka’ on Sanciya Honnamma and Akka Mahadevi -- two of Karnataka’s best-known poets.
 
 “My first introduction to her poetry was through a song I heard in the film Kittur Chennamma, and has been with me since then,” recalls Viswanatha. As a writer herself, Viswanatha cites two key reasons why Akka’s vachanas continue to be popular. “First, her poems have tremendous aesthetic appeal. The poems are direct and their auditory power is immense. The second is the daring life she chose to live -- while other female sharanas lived within the purview of domesticity, Akka was the only one who broke that mould,” Viswanatha notes.
 
 Akka Kelavva Nanonda Kanasa Kande is one of the more popular of Akka’s vachanas, easily recognized by both devotees of Akka and the uninitiated. In the poem, Akka alludes to a dream where her lord, Chenna Mallikarjuna, appears as a handsome ascetic with short hair and shapely teeth. The vachana, like all of Akka’s writings, is simple yet impassioned.
 
 And credit for this, to a great extent, goes to the late great   vocalist Pt Mallikarjun Mansur. For, it was Mansur’s composition of the vachana in   that ensured that it struck a chord with listeners around the world. While the song was a mainstay of his concerts when he was alive, the composition is performed by Hindustani vocalists even today.
 
 Kuchipudi danseuse Prateeksha   played the role of Akka Mahadevi in a short film for Doordarshan called Hejjeguruthagalu. “I was in college and didn’t know much about her so I started reading about her and her vachanas,” says Kashi. “What struck me about Akka Mahadevi was that for a lady of that time (12th century) to have lived life on her own terms was admirable. I believe she started the feminist movement all those centuries ago,” says Kashi.
 
 
 
 In 2014, Mumbai-based Bharatanatyam dancer Lata Surendra choreographed a 90-minute dance ballet based on Akka Mahadevi. “It was one of those lucky coincidences,” Surendra says.
 
 “I knew that presenting the life of a 12th century rebel mystic in Bharatanatyam was going to be a challenge. I wanted to show the single-minded obsession and love she had for Shiva but the main question was how best I could reach out to the audiences with the story,” Surendra says.
 
 Citing the essay, ‘Between Amma and Akka’, to elaborate on the influence of Akka’s vachanas on today’s writers, Viswanatha says, “The women poets I quoted in the essay had mixed reactions to Akka’s vachanas. I had a few who rued the fact that Akka had it easy -- that she could walk away from everything to pursue her goal unlike today, where it’s not so easy.”
 
 Poet Prathibha Nandakumar wrote of how her spectre continues to loom over women poets in  . She wrote, “As a woman poet today, you will always have critics asking ‘can you write like Akka?’ But no one asks men poets if they can write like Basavanna!”
 
