GURUGRAM: Earlier this week, a couple of hundred people took out a ‘peace march’ from   to  . At the rally, organised by Navjyoti — a skill development centre sanctioned by the Centre to provide training to persons with disabilities — the differently-abled sought to bring to the notice of Corporate India that they too were as skilled as anyone able-bodied, that they too deserved to be judged on merit alone.

 So, how far have companies become equal opportunity employers? Is it easier, now, for a person with disability to get placement purely on ability?
 
 In 2018, it’s inconceivable that anyone can be denied employment because of an unfortunate twist of fate. Payal Kukreja, who has an orthopedic impairment, says the change has been slow in coming. “When you tell people you have a disability, they make assumptions – for example, that she won’t be able to work,” she told TOI. 
 
 In 2014, Kukreja was hired by an international bank because a manager believed in her. “He took my interview and saw something in me. He said to me, ‘I will give you a chance.’ After six months, he told me, ‘I was right about the decision’. He was very, very supportive.
 
 “In my case, it was all on merit.” A lot, then, depends on the hiring manager. In this regard, Nitin Goyal was fortunate. An injury had left Goyal a paraplegic, just as he was studying for his MBA. While he was concerned whether he’d find a job,   conglomerate Siemens had no such worries and hired Goyal. “But otherwise, I had to perform like anyone else,” he mentioned.
 
 Goyal, now with Nokia, says prospects have improved. “It was very difficult, 20 years ago, for a person of disability in India to find a job. But things have changed a lot over the years, partly because of the growth of ‘knowledge economy’ companies, like IT and telecom, and the growth of multinationals in India. These industries are not constrained by traditional thinking,” he explained.
 
 Indeed, many companies, Goyal adds, actively recruit people with disabilities because they consider them a valuable – and competent – resource. “The mindset is changing with time, at least in the  , and in companies of the new economy.”
 
 Still, the specially-abled continue to be woefully under-represented in industry. Because very few companies are ready to take that leap of faith. 
 
 “It is set in people’s minds that there are certain kinds of jobs that can only be done by people with ‘special abilities’, as I like to call them,” says Arjun Mishra.
 
 Arjun and his brother Abhishek established the National Accreditation Board for Education and Training ( ), in Manesar IMT, to train and employ the visually impaired. “We had references from companies who had their fears about the level of competence which these people can maintain – but they proved them wrong. So, before making a judgment, give them a chance.”
 
 Hopefully, soon, a homegrown Stephen Hawking will emerge, and be embraced for his talent. As Kukreja rightly says, “If you don’t show others what you’re capable of, people won’t accept you.”
 
 
