By: Anindita.Acharya@timesgroup.com

 CHANDIGARH:   Raj, 26, has been living in a wheelchair since a 2006 motorcycle accident in   paralysed him neck down. He had just passed his Class-X examinations. “I cursed myself and didn’t want to live. My friends were moving ahead in life and I was restricted to a wheelchair,” he said.
 
 A telephone call to Nicky P Kaur, founder and chief executive officer of Chandigarh   Centre, in 2017 changed his life. He could experience scuba diving, participate in a para-motoring event, and take a Metro train ride in New Delhi on his own. “Coming to Chandigarh Spinal Rehab was the best decision of my life,” says Ajeya, who calls Nicky “Maa”. He roams around the centre on a joystick-operated wheelchair. He is the centre’s social-media manager, kitchen in-charge, and counsellor, once a burden on his family, but today supporting his sister’s education.
 
 
 
 Ajeya also goes to the market and pulls others to a movie outing at Elante Mall. “Four of us went on our   to watch Tiger Shroff-starrer Baaghi 2,” he said. Indore-based Harsh Banodha, a quadriplegic (one who has partial or total loss of use of all four limbs and torso) for 12 years, cannot stop smiling. On April 27, he will go home after a two-month therapy. Diving into a shallow swimming pool left him with spinal injuries and loss of muscular strength. “I can hold a pen and a spoon again now,” Harsh said. “I have become self-dependent.”
 
 Chandigarh Spinal Rehab Centre in Sector 28 is home to 30-odd men and women with spinal-cord injuries and multiple disabilities. Each has a devastating story of restricted mobility and dependence on a caregiver for several daily needs. However, they have held on to hope. Vidya Kumari, who had been operated upon for bed sores recently, is a keen athlete. Despite being a wheelchair user, she participates in javelin throw, shot put, and discus throw. “We are training her for more Paralympic events,” Nicky said.
 
 
 
 
 Centre’s trainer and popular para-athlete Shailesh Kumar has eyes on the 2020 Paralympics. The place offers rehabilitation for spinal-cord injuries, stroke, amputation, brain injury, cerebral palsy, degenerative disorders, and pain-related diseases. Its 20 inpatients and 10 outpatients meet at 8.30am every day for peer motivation, counselling, music therapy, and outdoor games (basketball especially) apart from regular exercise. Every Friday, they enjoy a tombola session.
 
 With a six-member therapy team of four physiotherapists, an occupational therapist, and an independent skills trainer, this centre has patients from across the country. “Coming across people with severe spinal-cord and brain injuries, and seeing their struggle with life, inspired me to build this centre for the empowerment of people living with disabilities. We have achieved a lot in these 18 months, gone scuba diving with 10 paraplegics in Pondicherry, and organised a para-motoring event in Chandigarh with them. They have the zeal to break boundaries. They only need a little push,” said Nicky.
 
 
 
 
 Nicky never wanted this centre to look like a hospital. The place has neat, manicured lawns with colourful flowers. There is a table tennis section and a basketball court. “When they come to us, they have almost lost the urge to live. But I make sure that when they leave this place, it's with a smile,” Nicky said. “We are a fun community of positive people. We give their bodies and soul a holistic healing, so that they lead a life of dignity and minimum dependence.”
 
 In 1998, when Gurdaspur-based Rakesh Kumar fell off his scooter into a 4-foot-deep hole, he was told he would not get out of wheelchair. He had almost given up on life when he learnt about Chandigarh Spinal Rehab on the social media. Today, he can lift 4 kilograms and his body balance has also improved. He has learnt web designing online and does freelance assignments from the bed.
 
 
 
 
 Hyderabad accountant Ravi also learnt about the centre on the social media, when he had lost faith in hospitals and become sure he will never be able to get up from the wheelchair. Today, he is learning how to walk with the help of crutches. Chandigarh-based Nimrat is a constant companion of her mother Rupinder Kaur, who until three months ago was bound to wheelchair. After regular visits to the centre, today Rupinder Kaur can also use her crutches to walk.
 
 Nicky, who wants this centre to become a premier institute, told TOI there was a waiting list for patients but the paucity of money and space with the centre meant that it was unable to accommodate all. “Most of the people who come to us are from, let’s call it, an economically challenged background, and so we do not charge them. I want this centre to excel in rehabilitation, sport, vocational opportunities, arts, and music,” she said.
 
