GURUGRAM: The  , investigating the   of a   II boy at a   school, has asked civic agencies to provide details of 38 locations, including their distance from the campus and the shortest routes available.

 Sources claimed the details would aid the ongoing CBI investigation into the role of different people in the post-murder developments and initial phase of investigation done by the Gurugram police. However, the agency officials refused to reveal anything.
 
 The areas mentioned in the list, which was sent to the Gurugram police and subsequently forwarded to the civic agencies, are mainly located in Gurugram, Sohna and Badshapur.
 
 The agency is understood to have enquired about Artemis Hospital, where the Class II boy was taken after he was found in a pool of blood with his throat slit in a washroom on the school premises on September 8 last year, and Ghamroj village, the home to bus   Ashok Kumar who was initially made the prime accused by Gurugram police.
 
 Sources said the CBI had also asked for details of some shops on Alwar-Delhi Road, Mangla market near Nehru Stadium, Satyam Plaza in Civil Lines, and near Gurugram bus stand. Further, the agency has asked for distance of some plots and properties located in Bhondsi and Badshapur, from the school campus. Also, the civic agencies have been asked to mention routes from the school to a few sectors and colonies of Gurugram.
 
 The agency has given a format to fill in the information, like distance of the 38 locations in kilometre and details of areas surrounding the 38 locations.
 
 The CBI filed a partial   on February 5, accusing a Class XI student of slitting the throat of the seven-year-old boy of the same school. It is likely to submit a supplementary chargesheet by July 4, highlighting the role of the school administration and Gurugram police which investigated the case before it was handed over to CBI.
 
 After taking up the investigation on September 22 last year, the CBI had picked up the Class XI student on November 8. The CBI investigation revealed that the juvenile killed the Class II boy apparently to postpone examination and a parent-teacher meeting. It also gave a clean chit to bus conductor Ashok, who was later acquitted of all charges by court.
 
 Earlier this month, the court reserved its order on a plea filed by the 16-year-old student, challenging the Juvenile Justice Board’s order on December 2017 to treat the Class XI student as an adult. Hearing on the matter is likely to begin on July 4. 
 
 
