NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has brought all 13 members of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the multi-crore irrigation scam under the scanner by directing them to individually inform it whether they were provided all relevant documents pertaining to the scam.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and   sternly told the State Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and SIT members to inform it about the progress in investigations till date.
 
 “The said officers shall file their personal affidavit, stating that records necessary for investigation have been made available to them. The progress made till then should also be placed on record,” the judges said, asking the SIT officers to file personal affidavits before June 13.
 
 The directives came while hearing three PILs related to the scam. The first one was filed by social worker Mohan Karemore, the second by NGO Janmanch through counsel Firdos Mirza, and the third by Atul Jagtap through lawyer Shridhar Purohit.
 
 Earlier, senior counsel  , specially appointed by the government to plead irrigation scam cases on its behalf, submitted records of proceedings of SIT meeting on May 2. It was constituted as per the HC orders of March 14. He further informed that a separate SIT was also constituted for Nagpur division, which convened its meeting on May 3.
 
 Jaiswal’s submission came after the court sought to know whether all officers named in the SIT had joined duties, and conducted meetings to carry forward the investigations.
 
 It was only after coming under fire from the HC for making little progress in the multi-crore irrigation scam that the Maharashtra government was forced to announce two SITs for Nagpur and Amravati divisions. Former chief secretary Sumit Mullick had informed in his affidavit that both SITs would work under the respective ACB superintendents.
 
 While slamming the government’s abject failure, the judges had also remarked that “it needs to wake up from the slumber”.
 
 The ex-chief bureaucrat then added that Amravati ACB is enquiring into 26 projects while Nagpur into 17, and Thane 12. Of them, offences have been lodged in 16 projects against the contractors and VIDC officials, while charge sheet was filed in two. He informed that the government had appointed Madhav Chitale committee to inquire into irregularities in VIDC projects, and based on its report, open probe was ordered on March 25, 2015.
 
 In earlier hearings, the HC itself pointed out that little progress was being made in the probe even three years and three months later, after then advocate general Sunil Manohar made a statement in December 2014, that the ACB was conducting an open enquiry against former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, his close aide and ex-water resources minister   and ex-PWD minister  , in connection with the scam.
 
 
