A number of projects now offer micro flats as tiny as 189sq ft, with space-saving designs, in-house amenities and a central location

 
 Standing inside a 247sq ft show-flat in an under-construction housing complex in Malad, Shravan and Vijaylaxmi Gupta look ecstatic about the new life waiting behind these doors four years from now. ‘Home’ at present is a 10ftx10ft room in a slum in  . “Tempers flare and fights break out during our daily treks to the roadside water tap or the shared toilet,” says Shravan. For this imitation-jewellery maker, moving to an apartment that combines a living room, bathroom and a kitchenette, with enough cupboard space for shoes and clothes, spells opulence. Even if it’s the size of three office cubicles.
 
 People like Shravan and Vijaylaxmi now have a better shot at buying a home in one of the world’s densest cities, thanks to a number of residential projects offering nano apartments. These were unveiled in the latter half of 2017, hot on the heels of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, a scheme for affordable housing for all by 2022.
 
 Small apartments have historically been a feature of the city. But this new wave of teeny-tiny residences is witnessing a rush of young professional and moderate-income buyers who prioritise location over space.
 
 TOI mapped five out of the 59 tiniest residences currently under construction. The smallest measures 189sq ft and the largest is 320sq ft. The cheapest ones cost Rs 53 lakh. A furnished unit starts at Rs 61 lakh for 189sq ft and a larger, unfurnished flat costs Rs 86 lakh for 309sq ft.
 
 At the six-tower, 2,500-unit project coming up alongside the   dubbed  , a walk from one end of the 189sq ft apartment to the other will take you eight seconds. But the design is surprisingly functional, with a space-saving folding murphy bed, a wall panel that can be raised to a desk or extended to a dining table, a step ladder that allows one to reach the loft and ceiling-high cupboards. Oversized windows, higher-than-usual ceilings and mirrors on the wall create an illusion of space.
 
 If the sample flats are anything to go by, tiny does not equal boring. If the apartments at Ruparel Optima in   are android-enabled, letting you control the coffee maker as well as the fan,   in Malad comes with a mezzanine loft that can double up as a study. Some bedrooms in Chembur Central rest on a platform with a pullout bed underneath, and are decked with pretty tiles, wooden flooring, and stylish bath fittings.
 
 But there are compromises. The bathroom would fit on an aircraft. The bed or ladder if not raised back into the wall, can take up most of the space. In case it starts to feel claustrophobic, there are “in-house amenities” such as swimming pools, gyms, cafes, game rooms, yoga studios, gardens, and even a social club.
 
 Ramesh Nair, CEO and country head of real estate consultancy Jones Lang La-Salle, says, “Affordable housing has started to see traction in Mumbai with many large and mid-sized players looking at creating such projects that help them make money faster.” Tanvi Goyal of Liases Foras, a real estate rating and research firm, says that the central location, good connectivity and easy access make these apartments a big draw. She explains why developers are coming up with projects that address the residential needs of moderate-income buyers (annual income of Rs 10 lakh and below). “Compact houses are budget-friendly, easy to rent and have quick turnaround in terms of sales. Under the current policy regime, these also come with fiscal benefits,” says Goyal.
 
 For Pramod Tarware, 29, who is selling off his 400sq ft apartment in   to live in a 247sq ft flat he has recently booked at Aarambh, it was about the coveted “Mumbai pin code”. Meghna, 25, downsized from a 500sq ft shared apartment to a 320sq ft furnished home at Optima. Having spent large chunks of her salary on rent after moving from Meghalaya to Mumbai, Meghna is thrilled to have her own house, where she can entertain friends, live close to work, and stay in shape at the in-house fitness centre. “I can pay off my loan with my rent money and build my own library,” she says.
 
 
