JAIPUR: Annoyed with the exclusion of   and progenies, ‘Bharatiya Prani Mitra’ an institution working for animal safety on Saturday said that they have continuously objecting it. They have written to President, Prime Minister and even home minister to include buffalo in the definition of “bovine animal”. 

 Addressing a press conference at the Pink City Press Club, Jasraj Srisrimal, national president of the institution, said, “This will certainly allow more slaughtering of the buffalos. We have been raising its objection to the authorities and ministers in the state and at the Centre. Such change in the definition should be discouraged.”
 
 “We have started a signature campaign and also requested the president of India to not give assent to the Bill, which was passed in the   in March this year. Slaughter of buffaloes is banned in 15 states and is against Article 51 A (G) and Article 48 of the constitution,” srisrimal added.
 
 Speaking at the occasion Jyoti Kumar Kothari, state convenor of the institution, said, “We have written to president of India, Ram  , prime minister of India, Narendra Modi, union home minister, Rajnath Singh. In Rajasthan we have written about it to   president Ashok Parnami, PCC chief Sachin Pilot and others including chief minister, Vasundhara Raje and former chief minister   seeking their intervention.” 
 
 The bill passed in the assembly during budget session has a provision of excluding buffalo and progenies from the definition of bovines was claimed to protect transporters and traders from cow vigilantes. 
 
 The Rajasthan Bovine Animal (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) (Amendment) Bill, 2018, clarified that “bovine animal” means and includes cow, calf, heifer, bull and bullock. The bill expressly excludes buffalo and progeny from the definition, which would come as a relief for cattle/meat traders and transporters facing harassment by cow vigilantes.
 
 “This bill is a clear violation of section 48 of Indian constitution,” said Kothari. 
 
 
