GHAZIABAD: Illegal   continues on the floodplains of   river in Loni’s Pachaira village, in blatant violation of norms.

 On Tuesday, Loni’s sub-divisional magistrate visited the area and found that mining was being carried out on a patch of land that has recently been leased out to a private firm, violating the stipulated government norms. The official seized three earth-moving machines of the firm.
 
 According to norms, sand mining is not permitted in the river bed and sand can be excavated up to three metres only. 
 
 “We were on a routine patrol when we noticed that earth-moving machines were deployed to extract sand from the river bed. We seized three machines and sent a report regarding the incident to the district magistrate,” said Amit Pal Sharma, SDM Loni.
 
 In fact, sand mining in the area resumed recently after a gap of nearly four years. The government had floated tenders early this year and allotted 16.183 hectares of mining rights to the private firm in Pachaira village. TOI visited the spot on Wednesday and found mounds of sand lying scattered all over the river banks, which were inhibiting the flow of the river.
 
 “You see for yourself that the river beyond a point has been reduced to a tiny stream as the flow has been inhibited by mountain of sand,” said Banwari, a local resident of Pachaira village. “Due to excavation rights inside the Yamunariver, the pit runs more than 20 feet deep at many places,” he said.
 
 “Mining on 16.183 hectares of land in Pachaira village is going on since February this year after a private firm won mining rights through e-tendering while at other sites, environmental clearance is awaited,” said Ashish Kumar, district mining officer. 
 
 “The firm can excavate sand up to three lakh metric tons per cubic metre annually for a period of four years,” he added.
 
 Kumar clarified that in Pachaira village, the firm has been given permission to excavate sand in an area of 16.183 hectares only. “The places where mining is allowed has been earmarked and if mining activities are being done beyond the points, it is illegal,” he added.
 
 City-based environmentalist Akash Vashistha blamed the state government for the rampant illegal sand mining.
 
 “Before allowing sand mining, there is a set of rules that needs to be taken into consideration but sadly these rules are not properly followed. And worst government agencies and departments have neither done something concrete to check illegal mining. This is causing irreparable damage to the Yamuna ecosystem,” added Vashistha. 
 
 The government has plans to install 360-degree CCTV cameras and other technology to check illegal mining, but so far that has remained on papers only.
 
 
