Pune: The ability to recover bank loans is really low in India when compared to many other countries, as it is a very time-consuming process here, said Zarin Daruwala, the CEO of Standard Chartered Bank. “In India, only 25.7 cents to a dollar are recovered. In comparison, Japan recovers 92.9 cents to a dollar. As a bank, even if I have hard assets and I want to recover, it takes 4-5 years,” she said while speaking on the topic ‘Banking — Present and Future’ at an event organised by Pune International Centre. “The more the recovery is delayed, the more haircut the bank must take,” she said. Daruwala, a former ICICI Bank executive, said in her previous bank, a stressed account customer was willing to settle the account by offering 85 cents for every 100 owed. However, the other banks in the consortium did not accept this as they thought a 15 cent haircut was too steep, she said. Subsequently, when she moved to Standard Chartered, she came across the same borrower whose bad loan was unresolved. “By this time, we could find a new buyer and settle the account, the haircut that the banks (in the consortium) had to take was 70 cents,” she said. She expressed hope that initiatives like Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code and the National Companies Law Tribunal (NCLT) will help banks recover bad loans on time. “The RBI has been referring many cases to the NCLT. About 30-40% of the NPAs in the banking system has been referred to the NCLT. While big accounts may find buyers, the smaller accounts may not, and if they go for liquidation, then there is the likelihood of more value erosion,” she said. While new fixed capital formation continues to be low, stalled projects — totalling Rs 1.33 lakh crore (mainly in the power sector) — remain a worry for banks, added Daruwala. Stressing on the need to invest in technology, she said non-banking finance companies are posing a challenge to mainstream banks. “NBFCs are nimble and are taking away a sizeable chunk of retail credit… if banks don’t invest in technology, they will see the market share swinging to NBFCs and private banks,” she added.