Kolkata: In a first of its kind move, Delhi airport’s cargo handling department will use Kolkata airport’s cargo facility and get shipments custom-cleared from the city, adding to revenue.

 Kolkata   has the capacity to accommodate around 273 tonnes of shipment but with few international airlines, barely 150 tonnes are shipped daily. This is around one-third of what Delhi or Mumbai handles.
 
 Celebi Delhi Cargo Terminal Management India Pvt Ltd, which handles cargo in the privatised Delhi airport, was in the city last week to tap into this vacuum and take shipments to Delhi in bonded trucks, paying a fee to the airport. 
 
 At present, Kolkata airport earns 90 paise plus GST for 1 kg of shipment as custom clearance fee.
 
 “We have studied the market and have realised that there is a large chunk of market in Kolkata and northeastern part of India, where from perishable items like fruits and vegetables can be shipped to other parts of the world. We are here to inspire exporters to take their products out of the country using our platform,” said Ramesh Mamidala, CEO of the company. He added that the company had shipped 10 tonnes of pineapple from Guwahati to Dubai via Delhi using the custom facilities at Kolkata two weeks ago.
 
 Celebi Delhi Cargo Terminal Management India has partnered with Om Logistics, which will provide trucks that will be bonded and custom-sealed at Kolkata airport. Perishable items can even be air-shipped to Delhi after clearing customs in Kolkata.
 
 “We are not here to compete or eat into the profits of Kolkata airport but are trying to get shipments that move to Mumbai and Chennai to get shipped out of the country. If exporters use our facility, they will be cheaper and faster,” said Mamidala.
 
 He added that apart from using Kolkata airport, the company would also try to use the facility at Andal airport to get exports out of places like Durgapur and Asansol.
 
 A senior official of Kolkata airport’s cargo handling department said they welcomed the move. “Since they are using our facility to get the shipments custom-cleared, we will only be gaining. Hence, we have no complaints,” he said.
 
 
