JAIPUR:   Syed Zainul Abedin Ali Khan’s decision to declare his eldest son,  , as his religious successor, or dewan (spiritual head of the shrine of  ), has set off a controversy at the shrine.

 The khadims (caretakers) have termed the move “illegal” and have refused to accept Naseerudin as the new dewan.
 
 They said a living dewan has no right to declare a successor (a successor dewan cannot be appointed as long as the current dewan is still alive, they argue) and that this step had no precedence.
 
 However, the dewan said the post was hereditary and succession a matter of primogeniture, making it a matter solely for the family.
 
 The controversy began on Saturday with the dewan declaring his eldest son his successor at the “Khangah” in the shrine and the khadim community opposing his anointment.
 
 The situation grew so bad that the dewan was not allowed to perform the “Gusal” ceremony in the sanctum sanctorum in the early hours of Sunday.
 
 
 
 
 The khadims argued that his son could not be allowed to perform the ritual. However, the main “Kulki-rasam” on Sunday went off peacefully.
 
 Explaining the reservations of the khadim community, Syed Wahid Chishti, secretary of the Anjuman (a body of khadims), said, “As long as the dewan is alive, he can’t appoint or declare anyone his successor. It is against tradition. Even   became dewan after the demise of his father. The community has objections to the timing of this announcement during the Urs (of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti). In a nutshell, the khadim community will not accept him as dewan,” said Chishti.
 
 Naseerudin said the khadims’ stand was “uncalled for” and “unauthorised”. “Interference by anyone is trespassing in the personal, traditional and religious matters of the dewan family. Those who have objections can approach the court and the dargah committee,” said Naseerudin, who quoted the Supreme Court order of 1987 which says only the dargah committee is entitled to accord to the person legitimately entitled to succeed to the office recognition as “Sajjadanashin”.
 
 “The order says that the role of the dargah committee is to recognise the Sajjadanashin … following the accepted rule of succession,” said Naseerudin.
 
 Both parties have written to the dargah committee asking it to look into the matter.
 
 I B Peerzada, dargah nazim, said the tradition has been that the Sajjadanashin remains in the post as long as he is alive but that they still were looking into the legal aspects. “Our legal counsel is looking into the matter and will respond officially once the matter is studied properly.” Peerzada said.
 
 
