KOLKATA:   celebrations have become a favourite among political parties in West Bengal, other than the devotees who offer pujas on the birthday of Lord Ram, fuelling tension in the politically sensitive zones.

 The ruling Trinamool has also joined the show with its leaders trying to tap Hindu sentiments ahead of the panchayat polls. Even the Left couldn’t ignore the occasion.   chairman Biman Bose led a rally at Birbhum’s Rampurhat on Saturday morning appealing harmony and peace in the area on the occasion of Ram Navami.
 
 
  
 
 A peek at the preparations gives one a clue to distinguish between celebrations patronised by   and Trinamool. Those organised by BJP-RSS and   asks its participants to give Jai Shree Ram slogans that the Trinamool isn’t insisting. Messages have gone viral in the social media asking a person to chant Jai Shree Ram if he is a Hindu.
 
 The other signage for the BJP patronised rallies is its combative mood. While celebrating Ram Navami, BJP leaders have gone back to the early Hindu culture to make a distinction between astra and sastra. They are not in a mood to accept tridents as weapons when rules under the Arms Act defines “arms” as articles of any description designed or adapted as weapons for offences, or defence, and includes firearms, sharp-edged and other deadly weapons (swords, shovels, choppers spears) and parts of, and machinery for manufacturing arms. BJP is set to take the Ram Navami celebrations to a new political high. “There is a difference between astra and sastra. Tridents or mace are not weapons, so to say. We won’t encourage participants to carry arms, neither shall we dissuade them from carrying them,” BJP state secretary Sayantan Basu said. Trinamool leader and minister Jyotipriya Mullick responded aggressively. “Let them do that, they will face the music,” Mullick said.
 
 This could be the reason why all police stations have been put on alert. A large police force has been kept as stand by to intervene in trouble-prone zones such as  , Howrah, East Midnapore and West Midnapore. Superintendents of police have been asked to send hourly updates on the developments to the police headquarters. “Getting a permission for the rally is not enough. We have set out a standard operating procedure for the rallies that organisers should abide by,” said director general of police Surajit Kar Purakayastha.
 
 While 500 Hindu organisations have taken permission to hold rallies on Sunday, Trinamool leaders are also patronising community rallies that will hit the streets on Sunday. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh flagged off a motorbike rally at Midnapore town on Saturday afternoon before he joins the Ram Navami rally at Kharagpur on Sunday with a mace.
 
 
