CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court has issued notice to   (HSSC) and state vigilance bureau for recent selection of over 2,000 heavy vehicle drivers for Haryana Roadways after allegations of fraud were made in a petition. 

 The petition filed by  , a resident of Rajasthan's   district and four other candidates from Haryana's   district who took part in the selection process, claimed the selected candidates were not entitled to hold driving licence.
 
 The petition claimed that several candidates between 18-20 years age have been selected, but as per provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, it is impossible for a person less than 20 years of age to hold a heavy motor vehicle licence.
 
 Justice   issued the notice after taking cognizance of the petition that wants the final result declared by the HSSC on March 3, 2018 to be quashed and has sought a detailed investigation into the driving licences and experience certificates of the selected candidates.
 
 
 
 
 The HSSC in May 2017 had advertised for selection of 2,038 heavy vehicle drivers for the state roadways department. The candidates needed to have passed matriculation and were required to have heavy transport vehicle driving licence with three years’ experience of driving a heavy transport vehicle. The candidates were also required to have passed driving tests conducted by the commission.
 
 
 Petitioners’ counsel Ravinder Singh Dhull argued that though minimum age for the recruitment was 18 years as per the advertisement, no person under the age of 18 years can drive a motor vehicle in any public place and no person under the age of 20-years can drive a transport vehicle in any public place.“This, prima facie establishes that the licences of several selected candidates below 20 years, are fake. A candidate was required to have a minimum three-year experience for driving heavy transport vehicle. For that, these selected candidates need to drive truck/bus at the age of 15, which is legally not permissible,” Dhull added.
 
 
 He said the fraud was detected only with the help of the date of birth of some candidates and claimed that authenticity of experience certificates cannot be ascertained.
 
 
 The petitioners also submitted a list of some candidates who had availed of age relaxation under the reserved category, but were selected in general category, which is against the norms defined by the SC in several judgments. If a reserved category candidate avails of age relaxation under the reserved category, they can be selected only in that reserved category, argued the counsel. The case would now come up for hearing on May 1.
 
 
 
