KOLKATA: Ankh lag gayi thi. Raat se chala rahe the. Kab neend aa gayi pata nahi. Jab ankh khuli tab bahut der ho chuki thi

 (I dozed off. I have been driving since night. Didn’t realise when I had fallen asleep. When I opened my eyes, it was too late),” said app cab driver  , who dashed his vehicle into a median on Bypass on Sunday. IIEST student Sayantan Biswas was killed in the accident, while his friends, Subhadeep Pradhan, Md Parvez Musharraf and Sudam Panda, were injured.
 
 His words might come across callous—given his “dozing off” claimed a life—but his ramblings also highlighted the arduous schedule of app cab drivers who often have to work overnight and double shifts to earn extra in the cut-throat business.
 
 
  
 Gharami (21), a resident of  , started driving the car from around 8pm on Saturday and had completed 12-odd trips around Park Street and EM Bypass before he found the ride at IIEST, Shibpur. He picked the four friends up from their hostel around 6.30am and within 20 minutes, the crash took place. “I was sleepy, was about to go home when the ride request arrived. I took it but decided to call it a day,” said Gharami from hospital when TOI met him after the accident. He escaped with minor injuries as the car airbag inflated but he complained of headache. He might be arrested once discharged.
 
 An Ola spokesperson issued a statement, saying: “We will extend all our support to the local authorities to expedite investigation pertaining to the case.”
 
 While Ola officials said they insisted that drivers should not overwork, many drivers worked in double shifts and at night. Some owners allegedly force drivers to work overtime to meet incentives. “Operators pay us an incentive if we complete 107 trips a week. It often gets impossible if we don’t work on double shifts. With so much competition, it is difficult to get enough rides during the day and so, many of us prefer to work at night,” said  , a driver.
 
 Doctors and transport experts stressed on eight-hour sleep for drivers. “Without sleep, a driver’s judgement and alertness could be at stake,” said Dr   of Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences.
 
