TRICHY: With a majority of unlicensed old age homes in   district continuing to blatantly violate norms by keeping senior citizens, the district administration has trained its focus on registered and unregistered old age homes in Trichy. 

 This comes in the wake of a recent incident in which local people stopped bodies being illegally disposed of at a hospice in Paleswaram, Kancheepuram district. 
 
 It is being pointed out that unlicensed old age homes in Trichy were violating norms despite repeated warnings and reminders from the district social welfare department. 
 
 Trichy district collector   had recently promised to form a committee for carrying out inspections and cracking down on erring administrators. 
 
 Going by the records of the district social welfare office, only four of the 16 old age homes have been functioning with proper licence from the department.
 
 Each of the homes has been keeping a minimum of 25 elderly people. “The rest of them are yet to even apply for licence from the department. 
 
 The inspection is intended to check if they are following the guidelines to ensure comfortable living of the inmates in the homes. 
 
 Further, the action will be intensified to get all of them registered under the social welfare department,” district social welfare officer (DSWO)   told TOI on Friday.
 
 The homes which refuse to budge may face closure. 
 
 Periodical inspection and renewal of licence once in three years are some of the factors which trouble administrators of old age homes. 
 
 The process of obtaining licence will be tough for those failing to fulfil norms such as getting building stabilisation certificate, sanitary certificate and fire safety certificate among other things. 
 
 Hence, they preferred to remain unregistered and avoid intervention of the district social welfare department in their affairs. 
 
 In fact, all the homes are subjected to inspection by the officials irrespective of their registered or unregistered status.
 
 On the other hand, there have been nine licensed homes for old age people functioning with grant either from the state or central government in Trichy.
 
 The officials said that there may be more number of old age homes functioning in the district without being noticed. 
 
 
