NEW DELHI: Breaking his silence over his government’s row with  ,   on Friday said that while he was “very happy” that raids were conducted at his residence, the investigating agencies should also show the “courage” to question BJP chief Amit Shah in connection with Justice Loya’s death. 
 
 Kejriwal took to Twitter to take potshots at BJP over the police raid at his house following the alleged attack on the chief secretary. Later at a function, he claimed that bureaucrats were blocking files of the government — even those related to hospitals. 
 
 AAP claimed that the police search was meant to “humiliate and insult” the CM. Kejriwal was at his residence when a police team arrived and “ran over the house”. The   reacted on Twitter: “A huge posse of cops was sent to my residence. The entire CM house is being searched over allegations of two slaps (sic).” 
 
 Before leaving for a function soon after, he told mediapersons: “I am happy that the matter is being investigated with such intensity. There should be an investigation. But I want to tell the investigating agency that they should show the courage to interrogate Amit Shah on the murder of Justice Loya.”
 
 AAP claimed that the search operation conducted by police was illegal as no prior intimation was given to the CM. The party alleged that the conduct of the cops suggested that they were trying to find “strong ground” in the case, but failed to do so. 
 
 Calling it a murder of democracy, party MP Sanjay Singh said: “Without Modi government’s directive, police could not have indulged in such ‘dadagiri’.” He accused Delhi Police of acting like a bully at the behest of the central government. “Some dictators and hooligans have captured power at the Centre who want to create an atmosphere of terror throughout the country,” he said.
 
 Singh targeted the police for not taking “any action” on the complaints filed by minister Imran Hussain and Delhi Dialogue Commission vice-chairman Ashish Khetan who were allegedly attacked inside the secretariat. AAP leader Ashutosh claimed police had earlier sought CCTV footage of the CM’s residence from PWD, but couldn’t obtain it. 
 
 AAP released a two-and-half-minute clip where senior police officers were seen asking questions about the wall paint of the room at CM’s residence where the meeting with the chief secretary had taken place. AAP counsel J S Joon said such questions would have made sense if there were suspicions of bloodstains being removed. A police officer, however, said they were only trying to ascertain if any CCTV camera had been removed from the room and the wall given a fresh paint.
 
 At a public function later, Kejriwal said: “I fight for you and your children. I have never made any recommendations for jobs for my children. We were voted to power by poor and we are focused on their development.” He said his partymen didn’t know “how to do politics” and that was why BJP and Congress kept attacking them. 
 
