VISAKHAPATNAM: The Legal Metrology department registered cases against various well-known supermarkets in the city for flouting the   (Goods & Services Tax). This practice was revealed during the special drives of sleuths from the Metrology department on Saturday and Sunday at various shopping malls like Big Bazaar, Reliance, Spencer’s etc. 

 
 
 These supermarkets were found cheating the consumers by selling a section of household goods beyond the permitted price. Since the introduction of GST from July 1, 2017 all good were supposed to be sold in accordance with the GST norms set by the Central government. As per the GST norms, the maximum price of many products come down with the revised GST from 28% to 18%. 
 
 But it has been recently revealed that some products are still being sold at the old price at these markets. For example, it was found that a 280 gram Pepsodent toothpaste was sold by one of the malls for Rs 203 against the permitted price of Rs 187. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, P  , assistant controller, Legal Metrology,  , said that as per the new GST price list, the Pepsodent toothpaste is supposed to be sold for Rs 187 by collecting only 18% of GST tax, but the seller has been imposing 28% GST on the product and is selling it for Rs 203.
 
 “We have filed 14 GST violation cases against such supermarkets in the city during our raids in the last two days. Apart from this, we have registered 41 other type of cases for other violations,” Sudhakar added.
 
 Sudhakar said that the raids were conducted on all shopping malls and super markets in the city. The main purpose of the inspection is to detect the GST related violation with respect to excess charging, he added.
 
 “Inspections were conducted on D-Mart units at   and Madhavadhara, Big Bazaar, Reliance Digital Mart, Lifestyle, Vizag Central, Spencer’s and Reliance malls across the city,” Sudhakar said.
 
 Sudhakar appealed to the people to contact the department if they come across any kind of violations by the traders including the malls and supermarkets in the city. 
 
 The department will verify their complaints in form of raids and surprise visits to check the authenticity before taking any kind of actions.
 
 
