CHENNAI:   chief minister   K   on Wednesday exhorted advocates, appearing on behalf the government in the  , to press for constitution of a   Management Board and to initiate   proceedings if the Centre failed to submit a draft scheme when the case came up for hearing on Thursday. The Centre is likely to seek two more weeks’ time to submit a draft scheme to regulate Cauvery water distribution.

 
 
  
 
 This is the second meeting the chief minister had with advocates in less than a month after the Supreme Court issued a directive to the Centre to formulate a scheme. The first meeting on April 7, just before the court’s deadline ended, decided to file a contempt plea against the Centre’s failure. With Karnataka assembly election just a week away, the Centre made a request to the bench headed by CJI, Dipak Misra on Wednesday to grant two weeks more. The court did not entertain the request for the second time in a week. “If the Centre fails to submit a draft scheme, the state will press for contempt. The board is an integral part of the SC order,” said a government official.
 
 In New Delhi, Palaniswami, who could not have an one-on-one meeting with PM Narendra Modi during his day-long stay, expressed hope that the Centre would implement the court order. “We are taking all efforts to get Cauvery water for the state,” he said, recalling the initiatives such as an all-party meeting and the unanimous resolution that was passed for pressurising the Centre to constitute the board. The state’s repeated attempts to get an audience with Modi for all-party delegation did not evoke positive response. Earlier, DMK working president M K Stalin said the CM was not bold enough to meet the PM in person and discuss about inter-state river water dispute. “Even if EPS gets time to meet the PM, he will use it to ensure the survival of his government in the state,” the DMK leader alleged.
 
 Refuting charges that the BJP government at the Centre was delaying the issue only with an eye on Karnataka polls, defence minister  , an elected RS MP from Karnataka, told reporters at the Madurai Airport, “The Union government cannot act unilaterally in forming the  . It will be done only after consultation with the states concerned.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the office-bearers of the Tamil film industry bodies led by actor Nasser submitted a memorandum of 5,000 signatories, including actors Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan to governor Banwarilal Purohit, demanding a Cauvery Management Board. 
 
 
