Nagpur: Energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had inaugurated the   with much fanfare in August 2017. He had announced that it would become fully functional in December. However, three months after the deadline, it is yet to become operational.

 Mahagenco Ash Management Services (Mahagams) had planned to relocate all the brick kilns in Nagpur and Kamptee to the cluster and make the kiln owners use fly ash. It also wanted to open new fly-ash based industries in the cluster.
 
 Shyam Wardhane, Mahagams managing director, blamed Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) for the delay. “In its metro region development plan, NIT showed our cluster as green zone. No industries can come up in such zones. Bawankule had to personally intervene to get the error rectified. This unnecessarily delayed the project,” he said.
 
 Further coming down on the civic agency, Wardhane said, “NIT has issued notices to brick kiln owners of Bharatwada, Punapur and Wanjri only recently. Until they got notices the owners were reluctant to shift here. Now our Nagpur office has received large number of applications. As per Supreme Court (SC) directives, brick kiln can’t operate within 500 metres of a city. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) did not enforce this norm.”
 
 Commenting on new industries, Wardhane said that 30 applications had been received from interested companies. “We will provide them plots at concessional rates on the lines of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC). Kiln owners too will get plots at same rates,” he added.
 
 Mahagams still has to get industries department approval to get D+ zone category for the cluster. This will ensure that industries in the cluster get power at subsidized rate and other subsidies. The cluster must get power at low tension (LT) level as high tension (HT) level is very costly. 
 
 Mahagenco has 2,000 acres near Koradi and Khaparkheda power plants. It can accommodate all the brick kilns and also offer land to new industries. It plans to promote vertical shaft brick kilns (VSBKs) that can produce 5,000 bricks per day against a few hundred by traditional kilns. These kilns used in most countries also consume less coal and hence are environment friendly.
 
 
