Nagpur: Several shops and establishments at Itwari and Gandhibag were closed after 21-year-old Atul Deharwal, vice president of BJP’s youth wing in east Nagpur, was found murdered on Monday in the forest adjoining Dodiya Borgaon in Saunsar tehsil of Madhya Pradesh. He was supposed to get married on February 7 next month with a woman from MP.  Tehsil and Lakadganj police station staffers had to remain on toes at Gandhibagh and Itwari as tension started erupting after the information of Daharwal’s murder came to fore.  Daharwal’s head and face were smashed with stones. Three blood stained stones were found near the body which was found by the local residents on Monday late evening after which the Lodhikheda police of Saunsar taluka in MP were alerted. Daharwal had left home on Monday. There is a CCTV footage of him purchasing water bottle at a roadside shop in Saunser.  On Tuesday morning, Daharwal’s body was shifted for post-mortem. Lodhikhera police have rounded up one person, identified as Shiva, for questioning. The motive behind the murder is yet to come to fore. Last month Daharwal had roughed up someone over an issue. Daharwal, who resided at Satranjipura, had a tile manufacturing business and also owned a gymnasium. He was also a partner in a hotel business. Daharwal was popular among the local traders at Gandhibagh where the mourners decided to suspend their businesses for few hours. Tehsil police deployed bandobast at Gandhibagh and Itwari after the body reached city.  Senior PI GS Uikey of Lodhikheda police station said the deceased had a bill in his pocket on which a mobile phone number was written which helped cops in contacting his family. “There was cash Rs727 in his pocket but his mobile phone could not be found at the spot,” said Uikey. “We are now taking help of the cyber cell to crack the murder. The cell phone number of Daharwal is now being analysed through cyber technology,” said the PI. An offence has been registered at Lodhikheda police station at MP.  The post-mortem was conducted at Saunser before the body was sent to city. The funeral at Gangabai ghat was attended by several senior leaders of BJP including MLA Krishna Khopde, Bajrang Dal leader Shrikant Aglawe and others.