GURUGRAM: With no applications submitted in the first round of bidding for a 20 acre land parcel from the   land pool, the   Development Corporation ( ) has sought bids for the second time, said sources in the know of the matter.

 Terms and conditions in the new tender document are on similar lines as the earlier pre-bid document, and the reserve price for the bid has still been kept open. Sealed bids have been invited till February 8, said the sources. “The corporation has again floated a tender, hoping to see a few bidders this time,” said a senior HSIIDC official, requesting anonymity.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that in a major setback to the corporation’s hopes, the 20 acre plot from the Global City project pool, which was put up for auction, had failed to attract bidders. 
 
 According to highly-placed sources within HSIIDC, the lack of takers has left the department puzzled, since the plot is placed at a prime location, right off  , and is also eligible to avail all benefits under the state’s newly-unveiled Transit Oriented Development (TOD) scheme.
 
 Registrations for the auction were to be done by December 13, 2017. However, the department hasn’t been able to close the auction due to lack of takers. 
 
 The reserve price for the auction had been kept open since officials said they weren’t sure of market prices. Sources further said the whole process could be a decoy for the corporation to discover the market price for the land earmarked for the Global City project, half of which it hopes to sell project partner Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation (DMICDC), even as it tries to reach a consensus with DMICDC over price.
 
 Either way, HSIIDC has announced it will auction 100 acres from the 1,347 acre land pool, originally allocated for a much-hyped SEZ project over a decade ago, and later allocated for the Global City project after the SEZ plan fell through. 
 
 The auction will be done in parts, of which, 20 acres adjoining Dwarka Expressway were put up in the first round. 
 
 
