PATNA: CM   on Wednesday said he and his JD (U) parted ways with the Grand Alliance last year and joined the BJP-led NDA to escape the embarrassing exercise of issuing statements in favour of RJD chief   after his conviction in the fodder scam cases. “I am afraid I might have been asked to visit Lalu in the jail had I been part of the GA,” the CM said. 
 
 Nitish, also the JD (U) president, walked out of the GA on July 26 last year after leading its government for 20 months, and formed the NDA-II government in alliance with the BJP. He had earlier severed ties with the BJP in June 2013, and his party had fought the 2015 election in alliance with the RJD and Congress. 
  
 Lalu was convicted in the fodder scam case in mid-December last year. He has since been convicted in three fodder scam cases, while the the remaining two cases are in different stages of trial. 
  
 The CM gave the ‘explanation’ while giving the government’s reply in the assembly to the debate on governor Satya Pal Malik’s address to the joint session of the legislature on February 26. Even as the CM was replying to the debate, opposition RJD and Congress members, led by leader of opposition and Lalu’s son  , had started walking out of the House. 
  
 Apparently addressing the opposition members, the CM said, “It is due to one family’s controversial land deals that you all are being embarrassed.” 
  
 According to Nitish, the land records in 13 districts have been updated and those of the remaining 25 districts will be updated by 2022, as a result of which the number of killings due to land disputes will fall. Also, a new software will be ready within a fortnight to facilitate more effective policing to control liquor smuggling. 
  
 The land ownership certificates will be made available online from April 1, he said. 
  
 Referring to the killing of nine schoolchildren by an SUV belonging to former BJP member Manoj Baitha in Muzaffarpur last week, the CM said the accident-prone “black spots” on the roads in the state were being identified. 
  
 “We are working on the steps for regulating traffic movement, but mass awareness is also required to prevent road accidents,” he said. 
  
  
