NAGPUR: At a time when Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s liabilities have crossed Rs 500 crore and there’s hardly any money to carry out development works, a proposal to build a Constitution Memorial near the statue of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar close to Reserve Bank of India at a cost of Rs 29.78 lakh has drawn flak. The proposal will be tabled in the standing committee meeting to be held on February 17.

 Several taxpayers expressed anguish over cash-strapped NMC’s move for such a ‘wasteful’ expenditure, thereby ignoring its prime responsibilities to provide basic infrastructure. The   has been finding it difficult to provide funds for development projects and opposition corporators are accusing the ruling party of ignoring improvement works.
 
 Social worker Janardan Moon, who recently filed a petition in the high court over misuse of taxpayers’ money by the NMC for undertaking development works costing Rs1.37 crore on the RSS premises, flayed the decision. He blamed that every year, the civic body spends crores of taxpayers’ money on unwanted works by ignoring civic amenities.
 
 Moon said every single rupee paid as tax by the common citizen should be utilized properly. “Corporators are the trustees of the people. They should not squander money and raise loans or impose heavy taxes on the citizens,” he said.
 
 “Sincere citizens pay taxes regularly so that the civic administration can provide them basic facilities. But all these years, the revenue has been squandered by corporators and civic officials sometimes in the name of study tours and sometimes in the name of celebrations,” said Dinesh Naidu, secretary of Parivartan: The Citizens’  .
 
 Naidu said, “The NMC is in the habit of doing last thing first. Even as fulfilment of basic amenities is a struggle for the NMC, I fail to understand how much more money will be ‘wasted’ on memorials, mahotsavs and hosting dignitaries”. He said allocating funds for such unproductive works even after severe criticism by the HC is not acceptable. “Instead, such a huge amount should be utilized for works like constructing stormwater network or some other major works,” he said.
 
 Citizens’ Forum for Equality president Madhukar Kukde too termed it inappropriate to waste such a huge public money. “It’s expected to utilize the funds available with the NMC for discharging prime duties and obligation cast upon it under the statute,” he said.
 
 According to him, the move is to gain support of voters as the general and state assembly elections are due in 2019.
 
 Kukde pointed out that corporators should invite suggestions from the citizens while drafting the NMC budget. “Funds should be allocated according to priority,” he added.
 
 
