KOCHI: One of the key elements in the draft Clinical Establishment   was that all hospitals in the state will have to exhibit standard fees, fixed by the government for services and procedures they provide, to save patients from ‘financial exploitation’. When the Bill was passed in the legislative   a few days ago, the clause was omitted. As per the Act, hospitals should display the rates but the government would not be fixing it.

 Given the skyrocketing treatment cost, the move by the state government to fix standard fees was seen as a step in the right direction by many concerned by inequities in the sector. “It is the lower middle class and those who fail to figure in the below poverty line list who are at the receiving end. They constitute a major chunk of the population but medical insurance coverage always eludes them,” said a doctor in the government service.
 
 
 “Had the government fixed rates for each treatment or service, it would have been a relief for poor patients,” the doctor, who is also medical activist, said. But even the provision which makes it mandatory for hospitals to exhibit rates should be welcomed he said. “It would bring in at least some amount of accountability,” he said.
 
 According to experts, the Clinical Establishment Act has paved way for social auditing in the sector. “It is true that some loopholes are to be plugged. There should be a mechanism to fix the rates and fees for various services. We hope it would be introduced without much delay,” said Dr  , member of  . That hospitals in the state are being brought under social auditing is a milestone in itself, he said.
 
 According to   (KPHA), fixing the cost of various services is a difficult task. “We can fix and exhibit the consultation fee of a doctor. But, it would be difficult for us to fix the rate of a medical procedure. Moreover, it will lead to disparity,” said  , secretary,  .
 
 Another dilution in the objectives can be seen in the clause 4 (e) of the Act. As per the draft Bill, the licence of a clinical establishment would have been cancelled if the treatment or services offered by the firm cause health problems for a person or cause damages to a pregnant woman or the foetus. Now, the clause has been changed to “cause threat on the life of a person or cause damages to a pregnant woman or foetus”. This change in the clause is expected to reduce the liability of hospitals. As per Clinical Establishment Act, a state-level authority and districtlevel authorities would be constituted to enforce standardization and ensure quality treatment.
 
 The district-level authority can inspect any hospital in the state. If serious laxity is found, it can recommend cancellation of licence. If institution wants to challenge the decision, it can petition the appellate authority.
 
