NEW DELHI: Get ready for a celestial spectacle this Wednesday evening. Even in the light-polluted city sky, Delhiites should be able to watch a partially-eclipsed moon rising in the eastern horizon at dusk that day and soon turning entirely blood red.

 The total   of Januray 31 has been exciting astronomy buffs and skywatchers for some time now for a number of reasons, but the event has a much wider appeal because of the visual treat it promises to unfold.
 
 The   takes place at a time when the moon is super close to Earth, which makes the disc of the full moon appear 6-7% bigger than average and almost 14% larger than when the moon is farthest from Earth (known as apogee). In other words, it’ll be a blood-red ‘supermoon’ on Wednesday, the third super full moon in a row since December.
 
 Also, enthusiasts will get ample time to look at the eclipsed moon as the totality period will last an hour and 16 minutes. Although, there have been longer eclipses in recent times — in 2011, it lasted 100 minutes — the period of totality this time is of greater duration than most most lunar eclipses.
 
  
  
 
 For catching all the excitement around the event, and a peek at the blood red moon through a telescope, Delhiites can head to the Teen Murti lawns or the India Gate grounds.
 
 At Teen Murti, the Nehru Planetarium is organising a daylong programme that begins with a ‘moon carnival’ for schoolchildren in the morning, for which registrations have closed. In the evening, the planetarium will set up five telescopes for public viewing. 
 
 “People can familiar themselves with the moon’s features during the watch. We will also conduct other activities such as counting stars during and after the eclipse to see how the absence of moon’s light affects visibility of the sky,” said N Rathnasree, director of Nehru Planetarium.
 
 More serious enthusiasts can participate in craters immersion activity where the time taken by the eclipse to reach and leave a particular crater is recorded. Measurements will also be taken of the disc of the supermoon, Rathnasree said.
 
 At India Gate, SPACE India will conduct an observation with telescopes from 6pm to 8.30pm. The NGO said its educators will provide views of the eclipsed moon and show prominent constellations and stars. and explain its phases. They will also encourage snacking during the event to break myths related to eclipses.
 
 Elsewhere in NCR, Sagar School near Alwar is also organising a public watch of the event with telescopes and volunteers at hand to explain the eclipse to the public. 
 
 
