BENGALURU: A two-year-old girl, the only child of  , drowned in a   in Doddabommasandra, Vidyaranyapura on Tuesday. Tanushri Sabanna, daughter of Sabanna and Lakshmi, was playing in front of her home — a makeshift shed near the drain — when the tragedy occurred. Police confirmed that the drain was not fenced and that it posed a risk to pedestrians and vehicles passing by. 

 In his statement made to Vidyaranyapura police, Sabanna said Tanushri was playing when the tragedy took place sometime between 9.30am and 10am. 
 
 “I was getting ready for work and my wife was cooking inside the house,” Sabanna told Vidyaranyapura police in his complaint. “Tanushri was playing near the door when I saw her for the last time. Around 10.15am, I called out to her and received no response. When I came out, she was not there. Then I walked towards the drain about 10 feet away from our doorstep and found her lying there.”
 
 Sabanna alerted his wife and the two jumped into the drain. They lifted their daughter out, flagged down an autorickshaw and rushed to a nearby health centre. “She was declared brought dead,” Sabanna said. Sabanna and Laksmi are from   district. The couple was working on a construction site as daily-wage labourers.
 
 Promising a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the family, BBMP mayor Sampath Raj ordered the suspension of assistant engineer Basavaraj, holding him responsible for the tragedy. The mayor also blamed on-going BWSSB work in the are for the death of the girl. 
 
 However, the BBMP, the custodian of storm water drains in the city, refused to admit culpability. Instead, it sought to lay the blame on the child’s parents with one official even questioning why they were living next to a drain. Parameshwaraiah, chief engineer of Yelahanka zone in whose jurisdiction the tragedy occurred, said that while storm water drains should be fenced off at points prone to accidents, it was not viable for the BBMP to fence the entire 842km-stretch through which the drains run.
 
 “While there are no written rules mandating fencing, the main purpose of fencing is to prevent people from dumping waste into the drains meant to channel rainwater,” Parameshwaraiah said. “While children and others living close to the drains should be protected, we also have to save the drains from the elites who think they can dump waste anywhere. It is unviable for the BBMP to be undertake fencing throughout. Why should people live so close to the drains? People should exercise discipline. Just because people are breaking rules, we cannot fence the entire stretch.”
 
 Police, however, said that the family was living on a vacant plot and were not squatting on government land.
 
 
 
 
 The storm water drain (SWD) in Doddabommasandra, Vidyaranyapura, north Bengaluru, in which Tanushri Sabanna drowned on Tuesday, was part of the encroachment clearance drive launched in 2016. 
 
 The drive was launched after several areas in south Bengaluru were flooded after heavy rain. However, citing lack of surveyors, the drive was quietly abandoned. Activists though had alleged that the drive was abandoned in deference to powerful lobbies.
 
 A technical assistant in-charge of SWDs said that while some stretches of SWD in core areas of the city were fenced at vulnerable points, these safety measures was yet to be implemented in the outskirts.
 
 “Some families are living on the SWD itself,” the technical assistant said. “In those cases it is impossible to fence it. Anyway, we have launched a project to construct 192km of SWD across the city at a cost of Rs 800 crore. The new SWD will be fenced and, alongside, we could also repair and rebuild fences where it has fallen apart along existing drains.”
 
 
 
 The   high court is hearing a PIL filed in 2014 seeking to hold civic officials accountable for the death of Geetha Lakshmi. Nine-year-old Geetha drowned after falling into a roadside drain in south Bengaluru. It was suspected that she fell into an uncovered portion of the drain. At the last hearing last year, the high court had directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to submit a report on the progress of the work it had taken up to prevent drains from becoming deathtraps for children.
 
 
