NOIDA: For Rs 55,000 a night, you could buy many a holiday in the lap of luxury. Or, currently, just a hotel room in Noida if you happen to be in the city and are looking for accommodation. 

 A lopsided demand-supply ratio and a big-ticket event — the automobile industry’s showpiece   — has driven hotel tariffs through the roof in the city. 
 
 Radisson Blu MBD in Sector 18 is at the top of the pile after a room was booked there on February 7 for Rs 55,000 a night, plus taxes. 
 
 “From February 8-14, our hotel is running high occupancy of 90% and above,” said Sonica Malhotra, spokesperson for MBD Group. “This is first time that pre-expo dates are sold out,” she added. 
 
 The highest listed rate at Fortune Inn Grazia in Sector 27 is Rs 21,000 plus taxes, Rs 40,000 at Mosaic Hotel (Sector 18) and Rs 28,000 at   in Sector 55. The spillover effect has seen tariffs rise in hotels in Delhi and Greater Noida and even Gurgaon, which have increased tariff because of the high demand because of the large number of business travellers and auto enthusiasts at the expo. The expo opens to the public from February 9-14 when demand is expected to rise further.
 
 “Noida has five hotels, which range between three and five stars. The rest are small residences converted to bed and breakfast or franchised rooms,” said Nasr Khan, founder and CEO of NightStay, a Noida-based company that provides last-minute booking solutions in high-end hotels. “Obviously, this is not enough to cater to the huge demand this week. Some hotels display a high ticket price on booking sites to stay visible for the rush season, some genuinely get booked at high rates. But this is a very short window and for most parts of the year, these hotels remain 40% vacant,” he added. 
 
 Across the Yamuna, in south Delhi, the effects of this rush are clearly visible as well. The Eros Hotel in Nehru Place is offering tariffs of Rs 25,000 per night as opposed to its usual rates of Rs 8,000. “The bookings are not just restricted to Noida. We have seen high demand since February 1, which is not just because of the Auto Expo but also the wedding season and multiple conferences in NCR that are accounting for corporate bookings,” said its revenue manager Sunny Suri.
 
 Varun Bansal of Oceana Travel Agency, a Noida-based travel startup, said, “These 10 days in travel parlance are blackout days for agents. Most of these properties are now out of reach of agents as hotels try and make maximum money themselves. The Auto Expo opens revenue floodgates for hotels in Noida and Delhi. It may possibly also spill over to the   region. This has been a trend for several years now.”
 
 
