CHENNAI: A resident of Anakaputhur near Meenambakkam went on the run after getting   and brutally clubbing to death nine   with a log, angry that they yelped along when adult strays in the neighbourhood barked at him, police said on Wednesday.

 A resident of   in Anakaputhur, M Karthik, who lodged a police complaint against Guna, 35, a daily wage worker and his neighbour, stating that he saw the man battering the puppies near his house past midnight on Sunday.
 
 The dead pups were from two recent litters of   in the locality, Karthik, who works with a multinational company in the suburbs, said in the complaint. He said the puppies were between a month and 90 days old.
 
 “Karthik said he had returned home around 1.30am on Monday when he heard a commotion and saw Guna kill the puppies near his house on   in Anakaputhur,” an investigating officer said.
 
 An emotional Karthik, who asked the local police to arrest Guna, said he had lived in the locality with his family for the past three years, the officer said.
 
 “I used to give the puppies milk,” Karthik said. “The two female dogs whose litter Guna killed are now refusing to eat any food.
 
 An animal rights activist who visited the spot confirmed that the puppies were dead. He said one dog whose remained at the side of one of her dead pups.
 
 “Neighbours said Guna and his mother had an argument around midnight on Sunday,” the officer said. “Guna was drunk and took out his anger on the pups. He was already upset over the dogs barking at him.”
 
 “According to Karthik, Guna was shouting furiously as he left his house. He took a log from a construction site and clubbed the puppies till they were dead,” he said.
 
 Police booked a case against Guna under Section 11 of   (Prevention) of Cruelty to Animals Act and under IPC sections 268 (public nuisance), 428 and and 429 (both pertaining to the killing or maiming of animals).
 
 “The attack on the puppies was clearly brutal and vicious,” the officer said. “We have launched a search for the suspect and expect to apprehend him soon.”
 
 
