KOLKATA: The state doesn’t want to act in haste on the   taking shelter in the state. Instead, it wants the Centre to draw up a   based on   that is hearing the  . The West Bengal Commission of Protection of Child Rights is a party to the case.

 “We moved SC on the grounds that a child can’t be sent back to a conflict zone. Such a move goes against the UN convention on the rights of the child, of which India is a signatory, and it also contradicts provision of the Juvenile Justice Act,” said commission chairperson Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborty. Commission’s lawyer Kalyan Banerjee said: “The additional solicitor general of India has already made an oral submission to the court that the Union government isn’t taking any coercive action against Rohingyas. The next hearing is on January 31.”
 
 This could be one reason why the MHA has sent an advisory to chief secretaries of all states citing provisions under the Foreigners Act, along with the Passport (Entry into India) Act, based on which a state government can arrest a foreign national living illegally in India.
 
 Sanjukta Bhattacharya of the Jadavpur University Centre for Refugee Studies pointed out that India and her neighbours do not have a comprehensive Refugee Act. “The decisions are therefore taken at the political level. We don’t have any act to define refugees. We can only call them non-citizens under the Foreigners Act, 1946, and the Foreigners Order, 1948. We thus need to update the Foreigners Act and promulgate laws on refugees,” Bhattacharya said.
 
 Having a United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees card doesn’t make things better for the Rohingyas either, because India doesn’t recognize it. “Our country doesn’t recognize UNHCR because it is not a signatory to the UN Convention, 1951, and UN Protocol, 1967. However, we can’t turn the other way round on this issue because India is a party to host of UN conventions such as Convention on Civil and Political Rights and Convention on   and Cultural Rights both held in 1976,” the JU professor said.
 
 Bengal also has specific problems over identifying Rohingyas who speak Bengali. Baruipur-based NGO Desh Bachao Samajik Committee has a solution. “It’s true that Rohingyas speak Bengali, but the language has words special to that region. We have picked up those words and can scan Rohingyas,” said general secretary Hossain Gazi.
 
 
