ARA: Ahead of the festival of colours, it was saffron hue that was in the air at   (VKSU), as Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of RSS, bagged all five key central panel seats in the second and final phase of VKSU students’ union poll held here on Tuesday. 
 
 The ABVP won all five key office-bearers posts at the university level i.e. of the president, vice-president, general secretary, joint secretary and treasurer. ABVP defeated its nearest rival AISA on four posts, whereas for the post of vice president, ABVP defeated the Chhatra RJD candidate. 
  
 The first phase of VKSU students’ union poll was held on February 18 to elect 90 college panel candidates and 105 council representatives. The second phase was held to elect the five key central panel candidates, as office-bearers at the university level on Tuesday, the result of which was declared late in the evening the same day. 
  
 ABVP candidate Amit Kumar Singh won the post of president defeating   Kumar of AISA by a margin of 16 votes. While Amit got 48 votes, Ranjan secured only 32 votes.   Kumari won the vice-president’s post, defeating her nearest rival Rahul Kumar of Chhatra RJD by a margin of 14 votes. While Sonali polled 53 votes, Rahul Kumar could get only 39 votes. 
  
 For the post of general secretary, Anu Kumari of ABVP defeated her nearest rival Anshu Raj of AISA by a margin of 10 votes. While Anu got 49 votes, Anshu managed to get only 39 votes. Maintaining its winning streak, ABVP candidate Ganesh Dutta Tiwari won the joint secretary’s post, trouncing his nearest rival   of AISA by a margin of 13 votes. While Ganesh polled 46 votes, Sonu could get only 33 votes. 
  
 Completing its clean sweep, Santu Mitra of ABVP won the post of treasurer defeating his nearest AISA rival   by a margin of 17 votes. While Shantu got 51 votes, Lalji could manage only 34 votes. Dean (students welfare) (DSW)- cum- chief election officer for VKSU students’ union poll Paras Rai gave away the certificates to the winning candidates. VKSU VC Syed Mumtazuddin on Wednesday said, “VKSU has become the first university in Bihar which conducted students’ union poll in two phases. We are satisfied with the fair and peaceful conduct of the election in our university.” 
  
  
