SURAT:   Vasant Gajera and his brother   were booked in two different cases for allegedly forging documents to encroach land owned by some other individuals by the Katargam police on Wednesday. 

 Both the complaints were lodged by   Patel (63) with regard to two different lands parcels in Katargam. Besides Gajera borthers, the police also booked Bipin Patel, Hemant Patel, Varsha Patel and other unidentified persons. 
 
 All were booked under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 341 (wrongful restraint), 447 (criminal trespass), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for cheating) and 471 (using a forged document as genuine). The forgery was allegedly committed five years ago.
 
 In her complaint, Bharti alleged that the land in question was owned by her father, but she was not given her share. Her other siblings had removed her name from the land records by producing forged papers. Based on those forged documents, Gajera duo got property purchase deed prepared in their name, she alleged. She further claimed that Vasant and Chuni had built a school on the land after getting the plan approved from the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC).
 
 In another complaint, Chuni, Bipin, Hemant, Jyotsana Natwar Patel, Tejas Patel, Vimal Patel, Binaben Patel and   were booked. The accused were booked under various Sections of the IPC, including 406 (criminal breach of trust) 465, 467, 468 and 471. 
 
 In the second complaint, Bharti alleged that her grandfather’s bogus will was produced by the accused to tamper with government records of the disputed land. It was allegedly established on papers that Bharti did not want her share and the land was later sold to Chuni.
 
 Police are likely to take custody of Vasant, who is already in judicial custody, for further investigation. Chuni and other accused are yet to be arrested. 
 
 Vasant, a leading diamond polishing unit owner and real estate developer, was arrested on March 21 for producing forged documents in session court to prove possession of a Rs 100 crore land in Vesu.
 
 
