NAGPUR: Dr  , chair in epidemiology in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has questioned the use of Rifampicin as a drug in preventive treatment of leprosy. Under the national   programme, the drug is given as a single dose to patients post exposure to the leprosy bacterium. “It may result in resistance to the drug,” said  .

 “This, I fear, is a wrong method. In places like Dadra Nagar Haveli, where the incidence is very high, people live in houses under humid conditions where bacteria can thrive easily. Since there is constant exposure to the bacterium, the disease will bounce back after a single dose,” said Dr Gupte.
 
 Dr Gupte was in city to attend the two-day international conference ‘Emerging microbes and infection and its impact on public health’ organized by the   of Dr G M   (CIIMS).
 
 The national leprosy programme is targeting 20 contacts per leprosy patients. These can be patients within the family, neighbourhood or in the community “I feel this is not a universally accepted strategy and may not work in our system. There is a need to redesign the treatment as well as prevention modalities. Unless you study the effect of single dose of rifampicin you are not going to achieve the target,” said Dr Gupte.
 
 Though the incidence of leprosy in India has fallen substantially, the disease continues to be a concern. “Dr Pran Talwar from   had developed a vaccine against Mycobacterium indicus pranii, which is also being used for leprosy. This medicine too doesn’t seem to be working the way it was projected. Hence, there is need to relook at the national leprosy control programme,” said Dr Gupte.
 
 Dr Gupte said that about 200 districts in India have high incidence of leprosy but the disease is not distributed equally among the population. “It is difficult to meet the projected target of leprosy eradication by 2020. Still deformities are being caused due to leprosy. But no one reports about them, which is a bad strategy to combat the disease,” he said. 
 
 
