NEW DELHI: The government has decided to hire IT experts from premier public and private institutes, including IITs, to help fight new age crimes like online fraud,  , identity theft, dark net, trafficking, child pornography, online radicalisation and cyber-terrorism and prepare a roadmap for Indian   Coordination Centre, also called I4C.

 The IT security experts, ethical hackers, web analysts and computer programmers will devise ways of online cyber-crime reporting and monitoring; setting up of cyber-forensic units; coordination and guidance for states; capacity building of police; research and development; best practices; and awareness creation at I4C, a brainchild of the home ministry.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Home minister Rajnath Singh, at a meeting on Wednesday, instructed officers to expedite the process of handling of cyber-crimes and finalise a time-line for it. The minister also approved creation of four units in the newly formed Cyber and Information Security Division (CIS) of MHA with two director-level officers heading them. Each desk will deal with separate aspects-—ranging from internet security clearance to reporting of cyber-crimes, coordination with states, policy/guidelines on cyber security and national information security. 
 
 “With everyone’s bank account information, family photos, private documents and data available online, it’s like giving someone access to a key to your front door. A large number of online criminals are exploiting the speed, convenience and anonymity of the internet to commit a diverse range of criminal activities that know no borders. Since there is a thrust on digitisation in every aspect of governance and increased use of smart phones and social media, we plan to stay ahead before the problem becomes overpowering. The home ministry is taking these steps in addition to the existing mechanisms of central and state police agencies,” said a senior MHA official.
 
 The I4C, sources say, will assist in centralising cyber security investigations, prioritise the development of response tools and bring together private companies to contain the menace.
 
 Over 460 million people in India currently use the internet, leaving them vulnerable to online criminals – both individuals and organised syndicates.
 
 Asia is the region most targeted by cyber-attackers, resulting in significant economic losses. It said that “as the region continues to play a key role in the global economic market, these cyber threats are expected to increase”.
 
