LUDHIANA: Regional members of the   lauded the efforts being made by Tanman Jeet Dhesi — the first turbaned MP in UK parliament — to raise his voice against racist attacks on members of the Sikh community, including   and   (both members of   Club) who had recently faced hate attacks during their visit abroad to meet Dhesi. 
 
 Addressing a media gathering at their regional office, Ravneet Singh — project manager of Eco Sikh Club — stated: “Eco Sikh team members have great respect for officials of UK, where I was attacked on 21st February. The latest attempt of Dhesi to raise the issue of racism in UK parliament has strengthened our belief in UK officials and raised the morale of our club members.” 
  
 Just after hearing the previous speech of Dhesi in UK parliament on Monday, Eco Sikh members were pleased and are now putting in every effort to bring this matter to the notice of other big countries too, where Sikhs face discrimination and racism, often being mistaken for Muslims. 
  
 Eco-Sikh president Supreet Kaur exclaimed: “Since the 9/11 attacks in America, Sikhs have faced many racist attacks in countries like UK, USA, and in Europe, because of being mistaken as Muslims, which is unfortunate. No community deserves such attacks because of terrorist attacks being carried out by some members of certain communities in the name of religion. We are extending our whole-hearted support to people of all religions who are facing hatred. The world today is facing several problems climate change, water scarcity, air pollution, food contamination etc. Apart from raising their voices on these issues, people should also start striving for the betterment of humanity, so that we can all make the world a better place for human beings.” 
  
 It is pertinent to mention here that Dhesi had raised the issue of attack on Ravneet Singh in the UK Parliament, and pointed out that the government’s Hate Crime Action Plan to properly record and monitor hate crimes completely ignores Sikhs, and asked the Speaker of the House to impress upon House authorities and the police to take the matter very seriously and bring the assailant to justice. 
  
 The speaker of the House John Berkow had apologized to the victim on Monday and said: “It was a truly appalling incident. I feel a great sense of shame that in our country, such an attack could be perpetrated.” The speaker had added that the incident was a hate crime. 
  
  
