   have decided to allow Spanish striker   to quit the club rather than continue with a player who was becoming increasingly difficult to handle.
 
  Colunga fell out of favour with coach   due to limited opportunities with the first team and then became a distraction for the team. Lobera was steadfast in his belief that there was no place for him in the starting eleven, at least not ahead of highest goal-getter Ferran Corominas, and made it known to Colunga that he would have to wait for his chance.
  
  An impatient Colunga didn’t want to remain on the substitutes bench. Talks were held with the Goan franchise and it was mutually agreed that parting ways would be the best option for both sides.
  
  Colunga, who played 67 minutes across two games and scored one goal against Delhi Dynamos, has since then agreed on his ‘settlement’ with FC Goa and quit the club.
  
  Colunga, 33, has 14 years of experience playing in Europe. The highlight of his career was the four years he spent in La Liga between 2010 and 2014, while he has donned colours for Getafe, Las Palmas, Brighton & Hove Albion (England) and Anorthosis Famagusta (Cyprus).
  
  “We should be able to finalise Colunga’s replacement in the next 48 hours,” a senior FC Goa official told TOI on Wednesday.
  
  FC Goa were in fact close to completing the signing of a Moroccan striker who had trained with Lobera in the past, until inquiries revealed that he would need three more weeks to return to complete fitness. FC Goa, understandably, were unwilling to wait for such a long time.
  
  The Goan franchise is understood to have contacted former Kerala Blasters striker  , who was surprisingly allowed to leave by Blasters. The Dutch striker scored the first goal for Blasters this season and, until his departure, remained the joint highest goalscorer this season alongside Iain Hume with four strikes.
  
  “Sifneos is an option but we are talking to other players too. The choice in the end would be between Sifneos and a Spanish striker,” said the source.
  
  FC Goa next play Mumbai City FC at home on January 28 knowing a win can possibly take them to the top of the table.
