NEW DELHI: If you want to  ,   for at least six hours daily.

 
 Top doctors from   in the USA and Spain’s   hospital have recommended the   on the basis of a meta-analysis of 46 studies that measured the difference between energy expenditure in sitting and standing. 
 
  
  
 
 They found that standing burned 0.5 kilo calorie (kcal) per minute more than sitting. Assuming no increase in  , it equates to 2.5kg in a year and 10kg in four years.
 
 The results of the meta-analysis have been published in European Journal of Preventive Cardiology. Francisco Lopez-Jimenez, senior author and chief of preventive cardiology at Mayo Clinic, said standing not only burns calories, it is also linked to lower rate of heart attacks, strokes and diabetes. As many people spend seven to eight hours at work, obesity is also being termed as a lifestyle problem.
 
 In 2015, the UK had issued guidelines designed to curb such health risks. The guidelines, prepared by a panel of international experts, recommended at least two hours of light activity and standing during working hours for all employees whose jobs were predominantly desk-based. “Standing at regular intervals to work in a desk-based job is likely to get better results than targeted exercise,” the guideline, published online in British Journal of Sports Medicine, stated. It added that employers should encourage their staff to follow healthy practices, such as cutting down on drinking and smoking, eating a nutritious diet and alleviating stress.
 
 Dr Anoop Misra, chairman of Fortis C-Doc Center for Excellence for Diabetes, Metabolic Diseases and Endocrinology, said non-communicable diseases are causing a health and economic crisis. “Due to poor lifestyle and lack of physical activity, a generation of young professionals in their 20s and 30s are battling with health problems like obesity and fatty liver which, till about a decade ago, was seen in older people. If light activities and standing at offices for a few hours can help as the research suggests, we must adopt it in our lifestyle,” he added.
 
 Experts said when we sit for long hours without a break our muscles burn less fat and blood flows more sluggishly. This leads to clogging of the heart by fatty acids. He added that lifestyle changes such as regular exercise, controlling obesity, less smoking and reducing alcohol consumption can help delay the onset of heart disease. “Standing at work also helps reduce the risk of problems related to posture, backache for instance,” said Dr Deepak Chaudhary, director of Safdarjung Sports Injury Centre.
 
 
