MADHUBANI: President of Ethnic Arts Foundation (USA) David Szanton on Monday suggested people to look to their past to understand the present.

 Addressing a function organised by Mithila Art Institute, an offshoot of Ethnic Arts Foundation, to deliberate on the future of   paintings, Szanton recalled how he was impressed by the unexplored possibilities of the art form in early 1980s and in the company of his friends in the USA, including Parmeshwar Jha, decided to do something for the artists who got merely a pittance for their work till then.
 
 He also talked of the evolution of the art form as is reflected in the diversification of its themes and motifs. Drawing a parallel, Szanton said like Madhubani paintings, the modern western paintings too had their origin on the walls of churches in early 14th century. “Any art form, if it has to survive, has to be a mix of traditional and contemporary themes and has to have an evolutionary trait,” he said.
 
 Talking of Madhubani painting’s future, he underlined the need for a slew of measures like developing a mechanism of financial support and expansion of Mithila Art Institute, extensive research and publication of books, establishment of archives and museums, digitalisation of the art form, besides stepping out of the confines of Madhubani and its surrounding areas and reading the prevalent trends in the field in greater Mithila. He also expressed the hope that Madhubani has the potential of becoming the Florence of the east. For the record, Florence, capital of Italy’s Tuscany region, is home to many masterpieces of Renaissance art and architecture. 
 
 Earlier, secretary of Mithila Art Institute Narendra Narain Singh Nirala welcomed the guests and made a fervent appeal to the artists to spread the message of peace through their paintings. 
 
 Other distinguished guests who addressed the select gathering of artists and intellectuals included John Bowles (USA), Coralynn Davis (USA), Neel Rekha (Delhi), Pranjali Sirasao (USA) and Manish Jha (USA). While Chandra Shekhar Das presided, Kaushik Kumar Jha, administrator of the institute, proposed a vote of thanks. 
 
 
