Vadodara: A Muslim girl student of M S University’s the Faculty of Commerce has not only passed her exams with flying colours but she will also have the distinction of being the only gold medalist in the university who will bag honours from the hands of President Ram Nath Kovind who will be the chief guest at the university’s 66th annual convocation on January 22.

 Although there are 160 gold medalists who will be conferred 263 medals this year, due to time constraint MSU has decided that only Chancellor’s gold medal will be conferred in presence of the President during the convocation ceremony. The rest of the gold medalists will be conferred their gold medals through a separate function - ‘We are Proud of You’ - which will be held at the convocation ground on the same day post the convocation ceremony. 
 
 Co-incidentally, the chancellor’s gold medal which is awarded through rotation, will be conferred upon Masarrat Mehboob Surti, who has cleared her masters’ degree. “I am very glad that I will have the honour to receive the gold medal from the hands of President. My parents and the entire university have always supported me all through my studies,” said Masarrat, who after completing her M Com in accounting and financial management with 80 % has started working with a private firm in Gorwa BIDC. 
 
 “I am very proud with my daughter’s feat,” said Masarrat’s father Mehboobali, who runs a small shop at Mangal Bazaar area in old city from where he carries out embroidery job work. 
 
 “My daughter has always remained a topper throughout her studies,” said Masarrat’s mother Furkana, a homemaker. 
 
 Traditionally, all the gold medalists are conferred the gold medals during the convocation ceremony. But this year, as President Ram Nath Kovind will be available for only one hour, the university officials have decided to cut short the ceremony. After much deliberations, the university has decided that only the chancellor’s gold medal will be symbolically conferred during the ceremony on Monday morning. 
 
 Although commerce faculty which counts for nearly half of university’s total student strength is infamous for irregular classes, Masarrat says she was a regular student at the faculty. “There is a wrong notion that classes are not regularly held at the faculty. I cleared my exams and scored 80 % by attending classes at my faculty and by completing my studies on the same day itself,” she said. 
 
 
