BENGALURU: The government has informed the   that   is undertaking steps to form a new transparent and uniform policy on applications for   entries relating to Register for Khatas, which is maintained under the BBMP Property Tax Rules, 2009.

 Advocate General (AG) Madhusudan R Naik submitted that a suitable notification related to online applications is under process, and other agencies like   will be consulted. After the government’s approval, the notification is likely to issued within four weeks, he said.
 
 Lauding BBMP’s move, Justice Vineet Kothari adjourned the hearing to February 14 to enable the authorities to come out with the new policy. The court had requested the AG to appear and assist the court as the issue was of larger public importance.
 
 In the petitioner Mukambika Bhat’s case, her application seeking a transfer of khata in her favour was not considered by the BBMP authorities. The khata pertained to a site gifted to her in Judicial Layout. 
 
 It was also noticed that BDA and BBMP were trying to shift the burden on one another regarding sanction of building plans and transferring of khata in cases of sites located in Judicial Layout. The crux of the problem is that khata is listed among the documents to be produced for various approvals, though the Bangalore Mahanagara Palike Building Bye-laws, 2003 don’t not mention the same.
 
 
 
 
 The high court has asked the government advocate to secure instructions regarding a petition filed by the father of a missing techie, Kumar Ajitabh, seeking transfer of the case to CBI.
 
 Justice A S Bopanna has posted the petition to January 8 for further hearing. The petitioner was also asked to serve copies to counsels representing the central government and CBI.
 
 Ajitabh’s father Ashok Kumar Sinha claimed that despite registration of two FIRs in separate complaints by Whitefiled police on December 20 and December 29, 2017, his son is yet to be traced even after 15 days and there is no substantial progress in the police probe. 
 
 He also said he feared grave danger to the life of his 30-year-old son, an employee of British Telecom who went missing on December 18 after receiving a call from an unknown person who offered to buy his car which he had put up for sale on online marketplace OLX.
 
 According to the petitioner, his son may have been abducted for gain, may have fallen prey to an organized gang involved in an organ trafficking racket or his IT skills may have been used for anti-national activities.
 
 Contending that his son’s human rights are at stake, the petitioner urged the court to transfer the case to CBI.
 
 
