 plays a   from Hyderabad in his upcoming film  . It is a departure from his roles so far in his career, where he has typically played a north Indian. However, Pulkit doesn’t feel any shame in admitting that he is tagged as a ‘Delhi dude’ in Bollywood. "I take it as a compliment actually. Delhi – the entire north – has given me so much love. It has given me an identity, so I have no shame in being called a Delhi dude," he says.
The Delhi boy says that despite being raised here, playing a Delhiite still doesn’t come naturally to him because of the wide variations in the city’s character. He explains, "It doesn’t come easily. You have to do your homework for everything. For  , it seems like I’m just playing a Delhi boy. But he is a Delhi boy from Geeta Colony, which is a different world when it comes to Delhi. It is the   part of Delhi, where people talk a bit differently and have a different kind of flamboyance to them."
 
  
  Pulkit Samrat
 
 
 
 Pulkit says that he tries to find people to base his character on. For his character in Fukrey, Pulkit based his mannerisms on a street vendor in Janpath and even visited Geeta Colony – where the movie is set – before dawn. He says, "I went to Janpath and I saw this one guy who was selling jeans. I picked up his walk and body language for my character. I observed the way he was talking. In fact, I even went to Geeta Colony at 5.30am to see how that area wakes up, how they start the day. That helped me understand the entire culture of the place."
 
 
 
 His film career may have taken him to Mumbai now but Delhi isn’t far from his heart. As they say, you can take the boy out of Delhi but not Delhi out of the boy! Pulkit reveals that whenever he visits Delhi with film crews, he is assigned the task of the local tour guide for his co-actors. “I play the regular Raju guide on every visit to Delhi,” he tells us, adding, "We don’t get much time during the promotions but otherwise while shooting the film, I take them to Chacha Ke Chhole Bhaturey in Kamla Nagar or Khan Market for sure. I took my last crew to a new jazz music club in South Delhi. These are the kind of the places I go to. I make it a point to order food from Karim’s or any of the places from Paranthewali Gali if I can’t take my crew there or have shakes from Keventer’s. I know my joints in Delhi and I know where to take people. Ab Delhi aayein hain toh Delhi dekhe bina kaise jaa sakte hain."
 
 
 
 Pulkit also sets the record straight on an allegation Delhiites always face – of over-dressing. "Anybody who says Delhiites are too blingy probably has never been to Chandigarh,” he says with a laugh. “Dilwalon ki Dilli hai yaar. Hum log bindaas hain, dilphenk. We are loud people. A majority of us are   and are bound to be loud. That makes us different. That’s how we show love. That exaggeration in the way we are is what makes Delhi so unique. In films, too, we exaggerate or else we wouldn’t have the heroes who take the girl to snow-clad peaks when serenading them or brood over a cliff when sad. That’s how we Delhi people express ourselves – khul kar!"
 
 --Shrishti.Bhatia@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
