BARSANA: Defending the lavish government-organised   celebrations in Mathura and Barsana on Saturday, after the Diwali extravaganza in Ayodhya in October 2017, UP chief minister   said that he was a Hindu and he, too, had the right to celebrate these festivals.
 
  While Barsana’s traditional ‘Lathmaar’ Holi is always a huge affair, continuing for seven days, it was different this time, as the government went all out to make it a grand event with the chief minister leading the celebrations. Nearly 50 kg of rose petals were showered on the dignitaries and crowds from a helicopter and the entire town, particularly the temples, was decked up with several quintals of red rose and marigold. Thousands of litres of colour have been stocked to make ‘Rasotsava 2018’ a grand success.
  
  “I’ve never stopped anyone from celebrating Eid or Christmas in the last 11 months, so
  what is the issue? I am a Hindu and everyone has the freedom to follow his faith. I too am free to follow my faith,” Yogi said, in response to a question on where he planned to celebrate Eid after Diwali and Holi.
  
  “We will celebrate Deepotsav in Ayodhya, Holi in Barsana, Dev Deepawali in Kashi, Ramayana Mela in Chitrakoot and Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj. I will participate in all the celebrations as protection and promotion of all these festivals is my government’s responsibility,” Yogi added.
  
  The chief minister also defended his decision to invite his Haryana and Manipur counterparts for the celebration, saying it was the idea of PM Modi and himself to make Braj Holi a global event. While Manipur CM N Biren Singh skipped the celebrations because of personal engagements, his Haryana counterpart, Manohar Lal Khattar, was present. “The states of Haryana and Manipur have a close connection with the birthplace of Lord Krishna because of Kurukshetra and his wife, Rukmini,” said Yogi.
  
  Braj Holi would now get international exposure, he said while addressing the public at Radha Bihari Inter College. He added that every year some state and country will be the part of Braj Holi. Yogi also announced that his government plans to declare Govardhan, Baldev, Nandgaon, Radhakund and   as “pilgrimage sites” just like Vrindavan and Barsana. Speaking to the media after visiting Krishna Janambhoomi, the chief minister said that his government was committed to the development of various religious sites in the state and making them world-class tourist destinations. The chief minister also tried his hands at beating drums while inaugurating the ‘Falgunotsav’ in ‘Atulya Gram Lohvan’ in Mathura on Friday evening.
  
  All the temples in Barsana were illuminated with decorative lights and the entire town had been beautified with flowers, props, balloons, satin flags and rangoli. The ambience of Holi was reflecting on the streets of both Mathura and Vrindavan. 
