GURUGRAM: The toppers in the city include Amisha Diwan from Delhi Public School (DPS), Sector 45, and Akash Agarwal from  , Sushant Lok, both scoring 98.6% in the commerce stream; Anshula Sardesai from   International School, Sector 46, scoring 98.4% in the arts stream; and   from Amity International School, Sector 43, scoring 98.2% in the science stream. 

 Amisha was not expecting such good results. The 18-year-old said she was not a bookworm but studied regularly. “My pre-boards didn’t go well. I did not think that one month of rigorous   could land me among the toppers,” she said. For the past one month, she had blocked her social networking accounts. She wants to become a chartered accountant and presently, has her eyes set on getting admission in Shri Ram College of Commerce in Delhi. 
 
 Sharing the score with Amisha is Akash who studied 7-8 hours daily. “I would study a subject for the entire day. This helped me complete my syllabus. To do well in the  , staying focused and studying regularly are a must,” he said.
 
 Anshula was expecting scores above 95% but not 98%. “I didn’t feel any sort of pressure as I had prepared throughout the year. Now, I plan to do psychology honours from DU,” she said. The youngster would like to get through Lady Shri Ram College in Delhi. Later Anshula would like to go in to the corporate sector as an industrial psychologist. 
 
 The 17-year-old Debajit said, “I was preparing for JEE exams and this helped me in the board exams. On a normal day, I would study 10-12 hours.” He added that he still did not know which career to choose and was waiting for the JEE advanced results to come out. 
 
 Last year, Anshika Pradhan and Nitya Chopra, both from Amity, Sector 46, were the toppers from Gurugram in the science and commerce streams, respectively, with scores of 98.4%. Once again, girls have fared better than boys in the CBSE Class 12 boards. In the Panchkula region which includes Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab and Chandigarh, the pass percentage for girls stands at 90.65% while it is 81.84% for boys. A total of 2,00,218 school and homeschooled students appeared in the exams from the Panchkula region. 
 
 
