BHOPAL: The youngest software developer and coder in the world  , 14, a Canadian of Indian origin, on Wednesday allayed fears of Artificial Intelligence (AI) overpowering humans.

 Tanmay was in the city to deliver a keynote address on ‘Aritificial Intelligence (AI) and Coding’ at the Rajiv Gandhi Proudyogiki Vishwavidhyalaya (RGPV) organised jointly by e-Entrepreneurship Cell of RGPV and TEQUIP-III at the conference hall. He was accompanied by his parents and technical experts.
 
 “AI can lead to a breakthrough in medicine. We can develop such systems that can diagnose cancer, depression; help differently-abled people and those suffering from moto-neuron diseases to lead better lives,” he said adding, “AI is created by humans to amplify human skills, not to replace them. We will not be creating humanoids or machines to be proficient in everything, but for a specific purpose. Like if we talk about medical science, we wish to design devices to diagnose diseases but that would be the only purpose of that machine.”
 
 The event turned interactive when the teenage software developer replied to queries, mostly revolving around AI, of the young participants. Further speaking on AI and coding, he reiterated: “We need not worry about Artificial Intelligence. The prospect that machines and robots will overpower humans will arise when they’ll be equipped with ‘Artificial General Intelligence’ (AGI). That is a far-fetched scenario which might not even happen.”
 
 Later, a debate was held on ‘Artificial Intelligence: Boon or Bane’ in which the Tanmay’s teenage partner   Katara spoke in favour of the subject. Parth is from Gujarat and has scored 160 in the Mensa IQ test.
 
 Ending the seminar with an advice to budding app developers, Bakshi’s said: “Start small, start easy. Start with simple programmes first. Take your time. If you are not passionate about coding, especially AI, do not continue. AI, right now is more like art than science. Only pursue it if you are passionate about it.”
 
 “It is great to have a child prodigy among us. He is making India proud by becoming the youngest entrepreneur, coder and developer. I hope you benefit from the interaction. More such workshops need to be conducted in order to popularize coding and programming among youngsters,” said commerce and industry minister Rajendra Shukla.
 
 Hailing Tanmay, Prof Sunil K Gupta, vice-chancellor, RGPV said, “The E-enterprenureship cell has put in a lot of efforts to make this event possible. It’s a rare opportunity for the students to listen and interact with Tanmay. He is God-gifted as well as very intelligent kid who has acquired huge fame across the globe at such a young age. Even adults are asking for the teen’s advice and I hope the students also benefit from this workshop.”
 
 
