JAIPUR : In order to acknowledge the bravery of martyrs and to ensure their family is not facing any difficulties due to bureaucratic issues, a yatra tittled ‘Shaheed Samman Yatra’ is making the difference.

 
 
 
  
 
 The yatra started last year during April is most sought-after by the families of martyrs who attained martyrdom prior to 1999 when there was no provision of giving government packages to them. The kin of 1965 or 1971 wars and every war prior to 1999 may get a government job which is also been promised in the yatra.
 
 Prem Singh Bajor, MLA from Neem Ka Thana, who is also the chairman of Sainik Kalyan Board came with an idea to visit families of martyrs. “We managed to get a list of 1,600 martyrs who belonged to both army and para military forces. We decided to visit them to find out if they were still deprived of things like naming a government school or hospital in their name or installing their idols or their financial package was pending. Thus, chief minister Vasundhara Raje during April 2017 gave a green signal to it. So, far we have visited the families of 1,000 martyrs,” Bajor said while he was visiting a martyr’s family on Saturday while talking to TOI. 
 
 “Prior to 1999 there was no such provision of state honours, financial package and government job. We are installing their idols at their respective villages and ensuring that any family member including grandson of the martyr may get a government job.” he added. 
 
 The authorities have also approached Limca Book of Records to register this yatra. “We have asked them to put us in development category since in this yatra we would be able to cover a distance of 1 lakh km and meeting nearly 1,601 families. Such thing has never happened in any state in India,” said Colonel (Retired) Jagdev Singh who is member a committee organising the yatra. 
 
 In order to check TOI spoke to a few families to know if their problems were solved. 
 
 “Only thing is left that my brother attained martyrdom at Sukma in Chattisgarh in 2009. He included two others from  . None of the Rajasthani martyrs were considered for gallantry award. Why others who were given award and why three Rajasthanis, including my brother, were deprived. I hope government will do something,” said Suresh Kumar. 
 
 
 
