JAIPUR: The state water resources minister Dr Rampratap on late Friday evening told the assembly that   water would be brought to Rajasthan.

 He assured the House that it will be brought to Churu district via pipeline from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh and would be utilized for drinking and irrigation needs of districts, including Churu, Jhunjhunu and Sikar.
 
 He also laid emphasis on the   (ERCP) which will be linked to Gambhiri, Kalisindh and Parvati rivers. He claimed that it will benefit 13 districts in the state. 
 
 While replying to the demands for grants for water resources in the assembly Dr. Rampratap made several announcements, including restoration and repair works at the dams and canal areas. He also accused the   of merely laying foundation stones at various canal and dams areas in the regime. However, legislators of Opposition interrupted him saying since elections would be held later in the year and his ministry is not going to fulfil the promises been made. 
 
 “We have started preparations to bring Yamuna water in the state. A pre-feasibility report and detailed project report has also been made. Under this project, a pipeline is proposed to be laid between Rajgarh (Churu) and Ghaziabad,” he said.
 
 He added that ERCP is going to benefit 13 districts of eastern Rajasthan which also covers major portion of Delhi Mumbai industrial corridor. “It is a project of nearly Rs 40,000 crore and will link Kalisindh, Gambhiri and Parvati rivers and solve the drinking water problem in 13 districts,” he said. 
 
 Claiming that   government has kept a good budget for water resources, he said, “We have sanctioned the budget of Rs 11 thousand 930 crores in four years whereas   in five years had made allocation of nearly Rs 4,257 crore.
 
 Taking a jibe on opposition Congress for their demand of loan waiver to farmers, Rampratap, said, “I think we should create a scenario for them where they can have a good harvest of their crops by giving them proper and timely water for irrigation than these loan waivers. Our government has done some work which they will remember for a long time,” 
 
 
