BENGALURU: The names of all 122 sitting   and recently joined Independent and JD(S) rebel legislators have been recommended by the  , at its meeting here on Monday.

 The 44-member committee, which brainstormed for the second time in less than a week at a resort, decided to meet again on April 2 as the meeting was inconclusive, KPCC president G Parameshwara told reporters. “The deliberations on Monday focused on sitting MLAs. We have not dropped any MLA and included aspirants among MLCs. Another meeting will be held to finalize the list. We will announce the first list of candidates by April 15, after the screening panel vets the list in New Delhi on April 9 and 10,” Parameshwara said.
 
 Independent MLA from Bidar (South) Ashok Kheny, who joined the Congress, and seven JD(S) legislators also figure in the list. Kheny is managing director of Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprise Limited (NICE), the implementing agency of the Bengaluru-Mysore Infrastructure Corridor (BMIC) project, that is facing allegations of irregularities. He joined the party by merging his Karnataka Makkala Paksha with the Congress, amid resentment and signs of rebellion within the ranks.
 
 Several leaders, especially from Hyderabad-Karnatak region, registered a strong protest after Kheny joined the party.Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Mallikarjun M Kharge recently said: “I don’t know why Kheny has been brought into the Congress. Those leaders who have brought him into the party should explain why and what benefit the party will derive from the decision.”
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah defended his decision to induct Kheny saying, “Kheny has not gone to jail like BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa.”
 
 There is also resentment among party loyalists on Siddaramaiah’s decision to give tickets to seven JD(S) rebel MLAs.
 
 Party sources said the committee is said to have decided to recommend fielding almost all sitting MLAs as part of a strategy to avoid rebellion and internal sabotage ahead of the polls. But they added that the AICC is likely to drop at least 15-20 names based on feedback, and the independent internal survey done by the party recently.
 
 Parameshwara said Harsha V Moily, an aspirant from Karkala, has not been considered following a request from his father and MP M Veerappa Moily. Moily junior was issued a show cause notice by the state party unit to explain the controversial tweet posted on his Twitter account. The tweet wanted the Congress to find a solution to the nexus between road contractors and issue of tickets.
 
