Memory can be many things. Sometimes it’s like a tune, so haunting and sad that you can’t get it out of your head. That’s how most football lovers, even those who never saw them play, like me, remember Brazil’s class of ’82.

 
 
 
 But looking at old videos online and reading up on coach   and his backheel boys, one understands why they continue to be feted, even fetishized, three decades after they lost that game.
 
 
 
 There’s only that one game, actually a heist carried out by Italy’s Paolo Rossi. The Italian striker, who had been out of football for two years due to match-fixing charges and hadn’t scored in the past 10 internationals, finished the game with a hat-trick. Brazil lost 2-3, went home. Italy went on to become the champions and Rossi, with six goals, ended up wearing the Golden Boot.
 
 In the documentary Football’s Greatest International Teams, Brazilian sports journalist Juca Kfouri recalls a Spanish newspaper headline that summed up the majority reaction to that loss: “It is impossible to understand the world. Brazil knocked out.”
 
 In Shocking Brazil, writer Fernando Duarte mentions an immigration officer at Kuala Lumpur airport who’s still invested in that game 20 years later. The officer looks at Falcao’s passport and asks, “How come Brazil lost that game?”
 
 Falcao was the best guy to answer that question. The midfielder had rifled a diagonal left-footer to make it 2-2 for the South Americans. Tight defensive work would have been more pragmatic at that stage because a draw was enough to see Brazil through. Santana’s boys still played to win, and lost. Serginho, an artisan in a tribe of artistes, regrets, in the documentary: “We lacked intelligence.”
 
 Watching the match on YouTube, one hears the commentator say shortly before half-time that both in attack and defence, this was Brazil’s “most disappointing” performance at Espana 82.
 
 But that game was an aberration. It was the way Brazil had played before that had made them the neutral’s favourite worldwide. Santana’s boys came closest to recapturing Brazil’s lost spirit of 1970, the jogo bonito that had been abandoned in the post-Pele years. Theirs was pre-globalisation football at its showboating best, its DNA unsullied yet by the European market.
 
 In 1982, Brazil were red hot in the early games. In the three group games, they fired 10 goals (Soviet Union 2-1, Scotland 4-1, New Zealand 4-0). Add another three against Maradona’s Argentina and two against Italy. At least a dozen of those 15 goals make you repeatedly reach out for the rewind button. They synchronized beauty and precision — grounders that were lessons in geometry angles; free kicks that defied the laws of physics; and outrageous chips. No team has scored so many spectacular goals in a single tournament.
 
 Most goals were born out of lazy build-ups, much like the long foreplay of a skillful lover. The midfield – captain Socrates, Zico, Falcao and Cerezo – produced movements that had the feel of Western classical pieces: adagio, allegro, crescendo. 
 
 “Football is a sport made from spontaneity and discernment, luxury and freedom, and one that, I believe, is part of our most primal genome, like dance,” wrote Socrates later in Alex Bellos’ book, Futebol: The Brazilian Way of Life.
 
 The dancers of 1982 produced easy and clean movements. In five matches, Brazil earned a mere two yellow cards, the least among teams that had crossed the first stage. “He wanted us to play with creativity, for fun, and to get results. But in a clean, disciplined way,” says Zico in the documentary.
 
 Some teams are embossed in memory not for their trophies but for what they represented. Santana’s boys are canonised for their commitment to football as art and aesthetics. That’s why, as Bellos writes,”… the Class of ’82 is remembered more fondly than any other (Brazil team) since 1970 – much more, unquestionably, than the 1994 world champions, when victory was bittersweet since the team played defensively and won the final on penalties.”
 
 The Class of 1982 failed to win the World Cup. But in playing the way only they could, Socrates, Zico and company became a fable and joined the immortals.
 
