 

 In a bid to to attract students to opt for admission in   instead of Delhi University, the University administration has decided to overhaul its teaching methods. LU will now follow the teaching pattern of   from the new academic session that begins from August this year. The university administration has already announced that it will introduce   system at the under graduate level from the coming session. The syllabus and examination will now also be on the lines of that at Delhi University.
 SP Singh, vice chancellor, Lucknow University, believes that adopting these measures will definitely improve the present education system and teaching methods at the premier institute. "This is an initiative where we can provide excellent quality education to our students who are preparing to join the university," says Singh, adding, "It is very disheartening to see our students being deprived of quality education in Lucknow and travelling to cities like Delhi and Mumbai for their graduation. But now, we can retain them by providing them the same education that they get in Delhi University. This will definitely, in turn, change the mindset of the students as well of the people regarding the university."
 Talking about the impact, Dr  , associate professor in   and Mass Communication at Lucknow University, says, "People take Lucknow University very lightly. Students have this perception that yahan padhai nahi hoti hai. But I think, after this initiative their mindset will definitely change. This initiative has in a way opened gates for more aspiring students. Initially it will be a difficult task as Lucknow University is affiliated to 175 colleges, and adopting this change in teaching pattern across will be a difficult task. But later, I am sure, things will get incorporated the way it has been decided."
 Nishi Pandey, a professor in the Department of English, LU, feels that it is a golden opportunity for the university and the departments to set up a totally unique environment on campus. "It is one of the major and a great step taken by the Lucknow University. What matter now is how we are going to deliver the new curriculum to the students,” says Nishi, adding, "Now, the greatest challenge for the departments will be to come up with more interesting courses for the students of different disciplines so that they can pursue a subject of their interest along with the course. It is a great opportunity for the university and the departments to design new courses and create a unique and an interesting platform for the students so that they can enjoy studies."
 
  
  Students at Lucknow University (BCCL) 
 
 The students at the university, meanwhile, say it will be a welcome change and will enhance their knowledge to the level of their counterparts in Delhi. Rekha Pachauri, a research scholar at the university, feels that this change in the teaching pattern of LU will help them match the level of their peers at DU. "Adopting a better teaching pattern at Lucknow University is a welcome change, one that was badly required. In the long run, this will definitely help students in and around Lucknow to stay in the city and study here. Mostly, the trend in Lucknow till now, was that for the under graduate courses, students used to move to the metros," says Rekha, adding, "However, one thing is definitely there that this change will put an extra pressure on the LU’s present faculty."
 The change in the teaching pattern has made Niharika Sengar, an intermediate student, who was planning to take admission in DU, to change plans and study at LU. "Since I opted for the commerce stream in my intermediate, pursuing B.Com from DU had always been my aim. LU was the last option for which I kept thinking ki kahin nahi hua toh LU jaaungi. But after getting to know that LU studying pattern will be the same as DU, I am now thinking of staying back in Lucknow to pursue my graduation," says Niharika.
 Mohd. Hassan, a 2017 B.Com pass-out, also feels that semester system like thatof DU will definitely bring a lot of change in LU's image. "The image of LU is going to remain the same until the authorities become strict about student attendance. People consider regular courses of Lucknow University as correspondence ones. However, with the introduction of the semester system, students will now have to attend classes else they will not be able to pass even one semester," says Hassan, adding, "It's a very positive move."
 — Prachi Arya and Adnaan Rizvi
 
 
