BATHINDA: Anger is mounting among marginal farmers allegedly left out of the farm loan waiver scheme of the Punjab government. Demanding inclusion of all farmers with up to 2.5 acres of land, they said they would lay siege to agriculture cooperative societies if their demand was not met. 

 The farmers have also decided to stage a protest at Mansa alongside the venue of the function where chief minister Captain   will hand over certificates of loan waiver to marginal famers on January 7. 
 
 The state government will hand over certificates of loan waiver worth Rs 170 crore to 46,000 marginal farmers from Bathinda, Mansa, Moga, Faridkot and Muktsar. Pritam Singh, a farmer from Mirjeana village in Bathinda, who owns two acres of land and owes Rs 65,000 to an agriculture cooperative society said he does not figure in the list of beneficiaries. “We are five members in the family and were hoping to get the loan waiver but my name is missing. Agriculture society employees said they would look into it,” he said. 
 
 Marginal farmers Gurdev Singh, Mohinder Singh and Balwant Singh of Raike village in Bathinda have not been named in the list either. They, along with other village residents, staged a protest at Raike agriculture cooperative society. They warned that if their names were not included in the list, they, in collaboration with farmer unions, would intensify their agitation. 
 
 Residents of Rameana village near Jaito in Faridkot also staged a protest at the agriculture cooperative society on finding names of many marginal farmers missing from the list. 
 
 Mara Singh and Sukhdev Singh, marginal farmers from Raisar village in  , were among the demonstrators. A group of farmers gathered at Sukhdev’s house and raised slogans against the state government. 
 
 Farmer organisation   (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary   alleged that names of many deserving marginal farmers had been omitted from the list. “At Saidoke village in Moga, names of influential farmers have been included while deserving farmers have been left out. We will stage a protest against this injustice in Mansa on January 7 near the venue of the official function,” he said.
 
 BKU (Dakaunda) general secretary   said, “We have detected large-scale omission of names of marginal farmers. At Kulrian village, there are 100 farmers who have land up to 2.5 acres and only 20 have their names in the list. At Khatriwala, only 13 out of 34 marginal farmers have been included in the list. Out of 78 farmers at Dialupura, 28 have been included, 20 out of 65 farmers have been included at Bakhshiwala and 47 out of 102 have been included at Bahadurpur village.”
 
 Meanwhile, Mansa DC Dharampal Gupta assured that no farmer would be left out. “Every deserving marginal farmer will be provided relief. Names of those missing from the lists are being verified and these will be added soon,” he said. 
 
 
