PATNA: About 370-odd passengers travelled by the Katihar-Delhi Champaran   (15705/15706) which was flagged off by PM   through remote control from Motihari on Tuesday. The tastefully decorated fully airconditioned ( ) train left   at 11am. It will be regularly run from April 13. 

 It is the second Humsafar   originating from   after the one from Patna to Bandra Terminal. 
 
 According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the biweekly Champaran Humsafar Express will run every Monday and Thursday from Katihar at 5.40am and it will reach Delhi at 11.40am the next day. On its return journey, it will leave Delhi every Tuesday and Friday at 1.45pm and will reach Katihar at 7.20pm the next day, he said, adding the load combination of this train is of 19 coaches of 3AC (16), pantry car (one) and brake van cum power car (two).
 
 The CPRO said the train will have stoppages at Purnia, Dauram Madhepura, Saharsa, Khagaria, Samastipur, Muzaffarpur, Bapu Dham Motihari, Bettiah, Narkatiaganj, Gorakhpur, Naugan, Bairampur, Gonda, Lucknow and Kanpur Central. Meal and breakfast are included in the fare. Its newly designed coaches have more comforts for passengers.
 
 He said the Madhepura electric locomotive factory, which was dedicated to nation by the PM on Tuesday, would prove a boon for railways as it is likely to fulfil its demands for more electric locomotives after conversion of all major and branch lines into electrified routes across the country. Railways would need more electric locomotives after completion of the dedicated freight corridors (DFC) by 2020.
 
 “The greatest achievement of this factory is that it is manufacturing electric locomotive based on ‘Make in India’ technology with the capacity of 12000HP (horsepower),” he said, adding the PM also inaugurated a newly manufactured electric locomotive at the Madhepura factory on the occasion.
 
 The track doubling work on the Muzaffarpur-Sagauli and Sagauli-Valmikinagar sections, for which the PM laid the foundation on Tuesday, would be competed on priority basis. Railways would monitor its work under the guidance of technical experts of the Railway Board. The track doubling work on these two routes would boost trade and commerce, especially products like sugar, jute and forest-based industry in north Bihar, he said. 
 
 
