LUCKNOW: Former chief minister   on Sunday launched a multi-pronged attack on the Yogi government, ranging from issues of farmer suicide, unemployment and sweater distribution fiasco. 

 Calling it an all-round failure of the   government,   alleged the ruling party brazenly indulged in caste and communal politics.
 
 The   president was addressing a luncheon press conference in Lucknow on Sunday. Bringing up the issue of 'saffronisation' of state buildings, Akhilesh said the BJP took a U-turn by repainting haj house walls after giving it a saffron cover. 
 
 "  ka rang ab pheeka hone laga hai aur peeche bhi hat rahi hai (the bright colour of the ruling BJP is now fading and it has started retreating from promises)," said Akhilesh. In a message to boost party cadres, he said he had undertaken 'rath yatras' and 'cycle yatras' to dislodge wayward ruling parties thrice in the past and would do so again to reach the masses. 
 
 On efforts to unite the opposition against the BJP in the forthcoming byelections and 2019 general elections, the Samajwadi Party president reiterated he would continue efforts in that direction to put up a strong fight against the BJP. 
 
 In reply to a question, Akhilesh blamed the BJP for imprisonment of Lalu Yadav. "He is a victim of BJP conspiracy," he said. He also condemned the BJP government for charging toll tax on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway.
 
 Mounting a vitriolic attack on the BJP government, Akhilesh said, "Starving farmers are committing suicide but are being gagged by the administration on the orders of the government".
 
 Raising the issue of farmers throwing potatoes on the streets of the state capital, the SP president said that by suspending police personnel for not preventing the farmer protests, it was clear that the government was applying administrative machinery to suppress them. 
 
 "I dare the government that even if it had announced   for potato growers, can it give data on how much was purchased by it," said Akhilesh, claiming that GDP figures, demonetisation and poor implementation of GST had collectively ruined the economic progress of the country leading to acute depression among the farming community and widespread unemployment. 
 
 Questioning the existence of the anti-Romeo squads announced by the government, Akhilesh said criminal assaults on women and young girls had become the order of the day and the government was fooling the state in the name of anti-Romeo squads. 
 
 "Where are anti-Romeo squads when girls are assaulted," he said. Reinforcing the political superstition that a UP chief minister who visits Noida is ousted from power, Akhilesh said it was good that both the PM and the CM had inaugurated the Noida Metro because now their departure from their positions was imminent. 
 
 
