The latest episode of   starts with   who is tensed about the new problem that she has to solve at any cost. She starts thinking that Arushi has given her the reason to believe her that due to  , her sister   lost her life. Ishita wonders who can she talk to in the house and could extract some information. She soon decides to talk to Romi and thinks that she should get some information from him about Sonakshi. 

 She goes on to speak to Romi and he is busy watching his friend's marriage video. As Ishita enters the room Romi tells Ishita to watch the video along with him. Romi tells Ishita that his friend used to like Simmi a lot and due to this he became his friend. Romi further says that Simmi has gone to London for a business meeting.
 
 Ishita reaches to a conclusion that Param and Simmi are behind all the ghost drama. Ishita decides to confront Simmi and Param about the same. Shravan is sitting with his friends in a five-star hotel and gets to know that his credit card has been blocked. The manager of the hotel tells Shravan to pay the bill in cash. Shravan gives his gold chain and pays the amount.
 
 Ishita enters Simmi's room but does not find anything there. She starts looking for Param and finally meets him. She loses her calm and accuses him for using Raman's name and recruiting people in London. She further asks him if they were duping innocent people. Param denies all the allegations and tells Ishita that he does not have any such business and even Simmi has no clue about it. 
 
 Param later warns Ishita to stay away from him or else he will reveal her secret to the entire   family.   walks in and asks Ishita why is Param blackmailing her. Ruhi tells Param that she is not scared of him and meanwhile, Simmi enters the room and scolds Ruhi for misbehaving with her husband Param. 
 
 Ishita tells Ruhi about the recruitment business in the abroad that is being operated by Simmi and Param. Ruhi suddenly remembers that the recruitment business was Param's idea of keeping Raman away from the other businesses. 
 
 In another scene, Shravan reaches home and gets panicked. He tries to find Param and soon realizes that the latter is playing evil games with him. He then meets Raman and gets some money from him. Meanwhile, Ishita gets the entire list of names that have been recruited and finds that Sonakshi's name is not in it.
 
