NAGPUR: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar’s reiteration that the demand for creating separate Vidarbha state had no mass support across the 11 districts of the region, is being seen as fresh attempt to weaken the statehood movement that has been barely kept alive for almost a century.

 Several pro-Vidarbha leaders expressed their anger over Pawar’s stance. They said to say that only non-Marathi migrants living in five districts of Vidarbha supported the demand while the five districts of erstwhile Berar (or  ) were never interested in the cause, was nothing but a wily Pawar’s ploy to divide the people of Vidarbha on non-existing linguistic sentiment.
 
 In a live interview before a large gathering in Pune on Wednesday, Raj Thackeray posed a leading question to   on whether it was even fair to raise demand for splitting Marathi speaking state into two parts. Expectedly Pawar expressed his contempt for it and said a handful of non-Marathi leaders were behind the movement and hardly any Marathi speaking person from Varhad ever supported separation from Maharashtra. “But still, if a plebiscite establishes that the demand has support of majority, it can be considered,” the veteran politician said.
 
 Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi leader and former advocate general Shrihari Aney, whose grandfather led the agitation in 50s, termed Pawar’s stance as mischievous and misleading. “Marathi or non-Marathi is not the issue. The demand comes from the plight the region suffers because of non-development in last over five decades by successive governments headed by Marathi-speaking chief ministers.” said   in a statement.
 
 Social activist Chandrashekhat Wankhede pointed out that NGO Janmanch had sought public poll in which 97% people who voted supported the separate state demand.
 
 Vidarbha Maza party chief Rajkumar Tirpude said Pawar’s remark was nothing but an attempt to downplay the growing support to separate state demand. “It amply demonstrates Pawar’s mindset to harm the interests of Vidarbha people,” said Tirpude.
 
 Senior economist and Vidarbha statehood movement leader Shrinivas Khandewale said leaders like Pawar from western Maharashtra could not decide what Vidharbites want. 
 
  MLA Ashish Deshmukh said Pawar’s stance was not factual. “Right from Bapuji Aney, Jambuwantrao Dhote to Ranjit Deshmukh and Datta Meghe were all sons of soil of Vidarbha who were in forefront of the agitation. They all believed that developmental aspirations of people of region could be fulfilled only by creating a separate state,” said Deshmukh.
 
 
