Gurgaon: The nature of the job, erratic schedules that lead to skipping meals, round-the-clock duty and high levels of pollution are triggering various health problems among   in the city. 

 There are 427 women cops in Gurgaon. A health check-up campaign by  , which screened 138 women cops between the age group of 21 and 45 years, has revealed that they suffer from deficiencies and lifestyle health issues. The cops were tested for complete blood count, pulmonary function, blood sugar and blood pressure. They also had eye and dental check-ups.
 
 The test reports have revealed that an alarming 45% of women cops posted in the district are anaemic i.e., they have low count of red blood cells, which lowers the ability of blood to carry oxygen and weakens the body.
 
 The is the first time that Fortis has undertaken such a campaign, focussing on women cops, with its CSR funds. 
 
 “It is worrying that 45% of female cops are anaemic. This indicates menstrual cycle and nutritional irregularities, which lead to morbidity. They even lack awareness about their health and don’t go for preventive check-ups. It is high time we apply WHO standards in India for haemoglobin levels in women. We will prescribe and give iron tablets to these cops and will conduct a regular health camp for them every six months,” said Dr Rahul Bhargava, director, bone marrow transplant, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, Gurgaon.
 
 Cops spend considerable time outdoors for investigations. The exposure to high pollution levels is weakening their vital organs, said experts. Nearly 8% of the women cops were diagnosed with asthma and pollution-related respiratory disorders. Additionally, the cops handling traffic duties were found to be having dry eyes and allergies. Nearly 3% of them have high blood pressure, and 2% have been diagnosed with high blood sugar.
 
 The more revealing fact is that these cops are unaware of their medical conditions as most of them do not go for regular health check-ups. 
 
 According to a 50-year-old woman sub-inspector, the number of women cops is limited and they have to investigate all women-related crimes as well as go for VIP and protest duties, which make it difficult for them to take care of themselves. 
 
 “There are times when we don’t even drink water while on field duty. We spend some days on tea while visiting locations for investigations. It is embarrassing to ask for food or buy food when at work.”
 
 The starting salary for a cop in the constable rank is nearly Rs 21,000 while for a head constable, the minimum salary is nearly Rs 26,000. A sub-inspector, on the other hand, starts at nearly Rs 35,000. Many women cops said that it was not financially viable to eat out with such salaries. 
 
 A young woman recruit said, “Many of us have to commute to the workplace from our houses in other districts. Sometimes, we skip breakfast because we have to rush to work. We cannot bring tiffin from home daily and nor do we get time to eat out. So, we don’t go for lunch and get a very late dinner.”
 
 Senior officials understand the plight of these cops but they believe a little nutritional knowledge is also needed. “Their staple diet is roti or rice with dal and sabzi. It is filling but lacks micronutrients. Cops need to eat more nutritional food and we will help develop that awareness,” said a senior woman police officer. 
 
 The senior men in the police department are not even surprised with the high levels of malnourishment and weak health among their female counterparts. A senior official said, “We need to understand their social and economic situation before talking about their health. A majority of them come from a rural background where they eat a heavy breakfast and dinner. There is no concept of lunch there. This continues when they join the force, too, as there is hardly any time for lunch. Considering their low salaries, they want to avoid splurging on fruits or juices while working on the field. Naturally, they are underweight and suffer from deficiencies.”
 
 DCP (headquarters) Deepak Gahlawat said, “We are aware that there might be some health concerns among women cops. We will continue with health check-ups and provide necessary medical aid to them.”
 
 
