THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A   under   was injured seriously after he was attacked by   with   on Saturday night. Civil police officer Ratheesh is the cop, who was injured. He has suffered fractures on both hands and injuries on spinal cord in the attack.

 According to the police, the attack happened around 11pm on Saturday at Thannimoodu under Neyyatinkara police station limits. Ratheesh was posted there for crowd control duty as part of a procession in connection with a festival at a church at Kamukinkode near here.
 
 “The attack happened after the procession passed Thannimoodu and the crowd almost dispersed,” said Neyyatinkara station house officer sub-inspector S Bijoy. According to the statement of Ratheesh, the three assailants came from behind and started attacking him with iron rods, screaming at him that he was a cop.
 
 Ratheesh told the police that he saw the faces of the assailants and they did not look familiar. However, he could identify them if he saw them again. The officer is admitted to KIMS Hospital at Venpalavattom, where he underwent a surgery on Sunday afternoon. Meanwhile, police have launched a probe to nab the assailants.
 
 In a similar case, a grade SI attached to Kazhakkoottam police station was attacked by an assistant motor vehicle inspector (AMVI) on Sunday morning. SI (Grade) Sreekumar was engaged in vehicle inspection, when the AMVI passed by on his motorcycle in civilian dress. 
 
 Though Sreekumar signalled him to stop, he did not obey following which the officer noted down the registration number of the bike. After some time the AMVI returned and questioned the SI’s act of noting down the vehicle number. The heated exchange of words soon made way for a brawl following which Kazhakootam police registered a case.
 
 However, the police showed leniency and did not invoke strict IPC sections after they learned through preliminary inquiry that the AMVI had met with an accident a year ago, causing serious injury to his head. Ever since, he was known to lose his cool often.
 
 
