TIRUPUR: With the second attack on two Nigerian nationals reported from the textile city in as many as four days, looks like there is a growing rift between the local residents and the foreigners.

 Four days after two Nigerian nationals were thrashed by local youths for allegedly harassing a woman at  , two other foreigners were allegedly manhandled after they were involved in a motor accident, which injured a pregnant woman, on Monday.
 
 The scooter carrying the Nigerians had hit the motorcycle carrying a married couple while they were near the   at Rayapuram on Monday evening. The couple was thrown off from the motorcycle. As the man rushed the injured woman, who he said was pregnant, to a hospital, some local youths allegedly roughed up the Nigerians before the local police intervened, sources said.
 
  north police conducted an inquiry with the Nigerians as well as with the local people, who demanded to book the Nigerians for causing the accident. A senior police officer told TOI that both the parties did not prefer a complaint. “While the Nigerians told us that they were not attacked, the injured couple has not approached us,” the officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, a textile industry representative blamed the Nigerians, most of whom are engaged in trade in   garment market for several years.”They have been not in their best behaviour on several occassions. So, local people react violently in situations involving them. Police should monitor them closely to find out if they are involved in anti-social activities, apart from strictly verifying whether they possess valid documents to stay in India and do business,” he said.
 
 Recently, Tirupur north police had registered cases against several Nigerians for overstaying and not possessing valid documents. “As the city police started arresting them for not possessing valid documents, they have shifted to new locations and are residing in rural areas including Uthukuli, Thimmanaickenpalayam and Kolathupalayam. So, the rural police should also take action against the illegal immigrants,”   spokesperson   said.
 
 
