For a while now, comic   has been talking about women in comedy, owing to what she calls “the numerical dearth of us in India”. But since the last few years there’s been an explosion in the number of women doing comedy – especially urban English comedy. While Mittal,   and Neeti Palta are still going strong, new names like  , Sonali Thakkar, Prashasti Singh, Pavitra Shetty, Urooj Ashfaq, Sumaira Shaykh are doing the rounds. Recently, a lifestyle English TV channel held a nationwide reality search for a women comic. The winner, Niveditha Prakasam, will get her own show on the channel.

 The comedy circuit in India has been infamous for being an all-boys club. Plus there’s a perception that women are just not that funny. Comic Radhika Vaz says, “Most of us are making really funny jokes that are edgy and interesting. Our voices are new, but our audiences are old-fashioned.”
 
 
 
 By a generous estimate, around 200 stand-up comics are working around the country. But women are a thinner slice of the pie. Case in point: of the 14 specials announced by a video streaming site last year, not even one featured a woman. But Vaz says there’s change. “Jeeya Sethi runs more open mics than anyone I know. I bow to Aditi and Sumukhi [Suresh] for being on   and   with shows and series that open people’s eyes to what we can do. I am crushing on all women comics who show no fear and make the space better for all of us.” 
 
 What has also helped is access, Mittal says. “Earlier, there was a lack of access to stage, but more women are controlling that access now,” she adds. What needs to change is the audience. “Men are more avid consumers of standup. The need is for more women to come and support,” she adds.
 
 
 
 For Vaz, everything is well worth it anytime someone says that something she said or wrote made them feel like they weren’t the only ones. She adds, “We take risks putting out material that is personal. But we live in India. Women are scrutinised more than men. I rest my case!”
 
 "If more men and women reading this come to our shows, if more journalists cover new women in comedy and our material, if everyone supports us we will one day not be a rarity. It takes a village!" — Radhika Vaz, comic & columnist
 
 
 
