CHANDIGARH: Panjab University is going to collaborate with the   on a project titled ‘Transforming India’s green revolution research and empowerment for sustainable food supplies’.

 According to the proposal, the project sets the new green revolution policy agenda with its comprehensive approach of working in partnership with Indian institutions to provide technological and societal solutions for the food security system in the country.
 
 The idea was discussed in a meeting held by the research promotion cell earlier in March. Prof Ramanjit Johal, director, research promotion cell, had said in the meeting that Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) and Collective Fund Research Councils, UK had invited applications for strategic programmes to grow research capability and the University of   had approached vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover for the university’s involvement.
 
 The project aims to define the requirements for a second, more sustainable green revolution, and to deliver these through a suite of research programmes, training workshops and educational activities.
 
 The committee had resolved to recommend the signing of the collaboration agreement with the University of Cambridge. “The university will take on any post-doctoral researchers allocated under the programme as well as host visiting PhD students from the UK. We are also keen for our own researchers to work at Cambridge and with your collaborators for extended periods. We have appreciated the opportunity that you have provided us with and your inputs during the drafting of the proposal. We see it as a promising beginning of our collaboration on this project,” stated the official communication sent by Grover to the University of Cambridge.
 
 The proposal and the agreement draft will be tabled in the syndicate meeting on April 29 for discussion.
 
 Moreover, University of Sheffield and University of Johannesburg too have taken Panjab University on board to study substance abuse and related affects and disorders in south Asia and southern Africa. Inter-disciplinary in nature, the project will bring in neurologists, psychologists, and anthropologists, while research experts from PU will engage in studying substance abuse in Punjab.
 
 
