MUMBAI: Bombay high court has struck down an interim order of the   family court to hand over custody of a four-year-old girl to her mother, a Dutch/Pakistani national, so that she can be taken back to the Netherlands. The woman had alleged that her husband, an Indian citizen and the managing director of a company, had abducted the child, a Dutch national, and brought her to Mumbai in 2016 when she was barely 18 months old. 

 "The family court has failed to take into consideration that if the child, at this stage, is to be settled in the new environment, she would be exposed to physical or psychological harm since she has gained roots in India," said justice  . "The child is not conversant with Dutch language and would feel completely uprooted if transferred to the Netherlands and made to live in an atmosphere where she is left only to the mother. In India, the child is in the company of the grandparents with a lot of love and affection being showered on her," said the judge.
 
 The judge said if the family court finally decides the custody case in favour of the father, she would have to be again uprooted from the Netherlands causing further "alienation". The court directed the family court to decide the man's application for custody of the child and the woman's plea opposing it within a year.
 
 The couple had married in 2011 and were living in Bandra. In 2014, after the birth of the child, the mother took her to the Netherlands for vaccinations, the petition claimed. In 2016, the man brought the child back to India and the woman filed a kidnapping case. Meanwhile, cases were filed in courts in Amsterdam as well as in the Bandra court.
 
 The family court, in its interim order, asked the man to hand over the child back to the mother as he could not explain how he had got the child to India. The child's passport was also directed to be released.
 
 The HC said the family court had not considered the welfare of the child. "The issue as to in what manner the child was brought to India is of no significance since the parties have independently instituted proceedings in furtherance of the Hague Convention," the high court said. The judge said the child had been admitted to a reputed school and there was no allegation that the father was not taking care of the child.
 
 
