The rise of the   to Mt. 35k is being driven largely by domestic institutional investors, especially equity mutual funds (MFs).   and small-cap stocks have played a bigger role in the relentless rise of the markets than their   peers. Here is a lowdown on what equity MF investors should do even as they are all set to test new waters.

  
  
 
 The BSE mid-cap and small-cap indices have surged 42% and 54.5% respectively in the last one year. Since the valuations of mid and small-cap stocks are already quite high, investors would do well to reduce exposure to mid-cap and small-cap MFs, say advisors.
 
 "Investors should reduce their tilt towards mid-cap and small-cap stocks," says Suresh Sadagopan, founder, Ladder7 Financial Advisories. "We are not investing our incremental money flows into mid-caps and small-caps," says Rupesh Nagda, founder, Family First Capital Advisors, a wealth management firm.
 
  
 
 
 Investors should continue their existing SIPs (systematic investment plans) as they are for the long-term, advisors say. "There would be volatility in the short-term. One needs to be a disciplined investor," says Anil Rego, founder, Right Horizons, a wealth management firm. "Irrespective of market situations, investors should remain committed to SIPs," Nagda says.
 
  
 
 
 With the surge in capital markets, an original asset allocation plan-say for instance to have 50% invested in equity-would have seen a change. The share of equity would have gone up to over 60% in a plan that envisaged only 50% allocation. This needs to be corrected by rebalancing the portfolio, say advisors.
 
 "Investors should rebalance their portfolio," Sadagopan says. "Equity MF investors can book profits in their schemes to bring the asset allocation back to the originally envisaged plan as people have gone overboard on equities in the last 1 ½ years," Nagda says. "Investors can have higher exposure to large-cap and diversified equity funds," advisors say.
 
  
 
 
 Given the sharp rally in the markets, investors should consider STPs (systematic transfer plans) out of equity. "If you are over-exposed to equities, you can do a systematic transfer to debt or hybrid funds," say advisors. "STP is a good tool to bring asset allocation back to the originally planned levels," wealth managers say. 
 
 
 
 
 The cardinal principle for surging markets holds true even now. Don’t make lump sum investments in equities, say advisers.
 
