Though   is always on the move, performing at concerts across the country, his heart lies in hometown Delhi. In Noida recently to perform at an event, the ' ' hitmaker talked about how being a Delhiite has given him his fearless attitude, his love for chaat from   market.

 
 A born foodie, chaats hold a special place in Badshah’s heart. “I love the vibe of Noida. It’s   status is complemented by its progress and energy. I have tasted the food here, and I especially loved the street food at Atta market. Since I am a chaat person, I loved having aalu tikki and dahi bhalle at Atta market. I am a very chatpata guy,” he says.
 
 
 Though Badshah loves everything about Delhi, he doesn’t like the traffic in the city. “It’s hard to find parking space in Delhi and the traffic sucks there. Noida is also on its way to becoming like Delhi. However, the Expressway is a breath of fresh air for riders in Noida. I hope the city doesn’t become as claustrophobic as Delhi.”
 
  
  
 
 
 He says, “The shopping centres that have come up in Noida are amazing. There are amusement parks and other good family outing spots. Noida has become safer as compared to what it was five years ago, I think. For me, safety is a huge parameter for a city’s progress. If your city is safe, it is progressing.”
 
 
 Badshah, who was born in west Delhi’s  , feels that Delhiites are very focussed on their work. “West Delhi is a Punjabi dominated place. Every part of Delhi has its own culture, but people here have a common trait – they all are very work-oriented. This is also the case with Noida. This is what I love the most about NCR,” he says.
 
  
  
 
 Badshah gives credit to Delhi for his fearless attitude. He says, “I love everything about Delhi, Dilli toh ghar hai. Yahan ka khana, logon ka attitude – it’s all unique. I have imbibed the same fearless attitude and it has helped me in my career.”
 
 He adds, “Delhi is a mega metropolitan city, but each place has its own vibe. When you go to Old Delhi, you are transported to a different world. The behaviour of people and the food there is out of this world. Delhi to me is about late night trips to   and other areas in   and have the amazing food there.”
 
 In 2010, the rapper made an underground song on Delhi, titled Delhi Ke Deewane, and he says he would love to compose another song on the city soon. “I hope I get a chance to make a song on Delhi and I think I can do it better than anyone else,” he says.
 
 
 Talking about fashion trends in the city, he says, “As far as fashion is concerned, Delhi is way ahead of any other city. We are the trendsetters. This city has a mix of cultures and we take influence from every region. We have people coming from abroad and different cities in India, so we pick up the best of their fashion and make it our own. Also, these days, the norm has changed. It is not the girls but the guys who spend most of their time in front of the mirror. They are grooming themselves, taking care of their skin, their hair. It is fantastic.”
 
 
