MALAPPURAM: CPI state secretary   presented the political and organizational report at the state conference on Thursday. The report said that inclusion of   (M) in the Left front will adversely affect its image as LDF came to power on the back of an anti-graft campaign. The effort to expand the front by adding opportunists and those facing corruption charges will prove negative to the front, said the report. 

 The report pointed out previous instances that failed. There was a move by LDF to welcome   (DIC) and a bid to form an alliance with PDP in Ponnani LS constituency. "Instead of fielding a party candidate, LDF chose a candidate supported by PDP leader   in Ponnani. The party strongly opposed the move and public opinion was in favour of the party," it said.
 
 The report, which described the political development in Kerala during the past three years, said that political murders in Kannur was tarnishing the image of LDF regime. The report criticized a group of police officers for (allegedly) following the policy of the former UDF government and that Sangh Parivar forces were influencing the police force using their influence at the Centre.
 
 The report criticized KE Ismail for acting against the party's decision on formation of party's foreign branches. The report blamed him for distributing a fake circular of the party at meetings. The report said that the participation of delegates from foreign branches at the 22nd party congress and the state conference in Kottayam went against party rules.
 
 Party general secretary  , who inaugurated the conference, underscored need to fight BJP and Sangh Parivar forces, without sacrificing Left unity.
 
 "The main enemy of the country is BJP, controlled by RSS and fight against fascism should not be linked with electoral politics. Without Left unity, a broad platform against fascism cannot be built. A national-level political alliance may not be possible. But state-level electoral understandings is possible," he said, adding that CPI and CPM should overcome their differences, stand together and defeat BJP.
 
 
