NAGPUR: Even as   ( ) administration is setting sights on achieving ‘Institute of eminence’ status, the rot in its recent appointments and promotions is getting deeper with each passing day.

 Preliminary investigations by TOI, with help of its faculty members, disclosed that a majority of undeserving candidates having doubtful credentials was doled out favours, while those with excellent academic record and loads of publications, were ignored for best-known reasons.
 
 Those included a faculty who is allegedly faced two criminal cases and was even indicted by the VNIT administration’s internal enquiry panel for molesting a first year girl. He was twice promoted since then. 
 
 According to teachers, two of their colleagues from the civil and applied mechanics departments were made professor and associate professor respectively, even as both of them were hardly having any Science Citation Index ( ) publications and their research outcome was also doubtful.
 
 Another lecturer with over 120 publications in highly reputed international journals and more than 3,400 citations was refused promotion, not once but thrice. “The college used research output of such acclaimed faculties, but later failed to recognize their contribution and dumped during promotions,” they told TOI.
 
 In VNIT, there’s a practice to seek feedback from the students on teachers performance at the end of academic year. “Two teachers from chemical engineering and chemical departments whose Average Teaching Feedback Score (ATFS) is around 5.0 (on scale of 10) and were issued notice for poor performance by the administration were promoted, but those having consistently ATFS of over 9.0 were denied their genuine dues,” they claimed.
 
 Similarly, few faculties from the civil, electrical, applied mechanics and metallurgy departments who hardly had any contribution in the VNIT’s administrative responsibilities were promoted as professor. “All of them are working since 10-15 years, but hardly helped in carrying out administrative responsibilities like admissions, looking after hostels and others,” the aggrieved teachers said.
 
 On other hand, many deserving teachers in computer science and mechanical working tirelessly since over a decade, were not only humiliated during the interviews, but also ignored for promotions. “One of them from civil is working on multi crore research and development project, while other from chemistry received a renowned international fellowship. But factors other than merit seem to influence the entire recruitment process,” they charged.
 
 
