COIMBATORE: Offering local residents a unique platform to raise their issues and get them addressed,   was launched in the city on Sunday. An initiative of the Times of India, here the city residents can easily connect directly with officials and find solutions to their long-pending grievances.

 The first session was held at Saibaba Colony covering Bharathi Park area, K K Pudur and neighbouring areas. The interactive session that lasted for more than two hours saw residents’ many problems reaching a solution. City corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan and deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Sujith Kumar, among others, listened to their problems and also gave suggestions to solve some of them without the intervention of officials.
 
 The issues discussed ranged from stray dog menace to storm water drains turning into drainages to lack of infrastructure for implementing Sunya project to the increasing height of roads. The officials patiently listened to all the problems and offered solutions to almost all of them.
 
 “For the Sunya project, we will ensure that door-to-door collection takes place daily with additional man power and also send trucks on a regular basis to collect the waste,” Vijayakarthikeyan said, adding, “If residents come up with certain solutions, it becomes easier for us to implement them.”
 
 Bharathi park ladies association members, meanwhile, came up with solutions to the stray dog menace. “We have already found private farms run by   and they are located on the outskirts of the city. We need the civic body’s cooperation to catch the dogs and transport them there,” said Jyoti Prakash, president of the association.
 
 The corporation commissioner immediately ordered the zonal sanitary officer,  , who was present at the event, to do the needful. He also directed executive engineer   to survey and submit a report on all roads, the height of which had gone up during relaying process, and asked him to take appropriate action. When a resident sought action on illegal burning of waste in parks, Vijayakarthikeyan urged the officials to introduce composting inside the parks.
 
 As residents pitched for traffic signal at Avila Convent signal and one-sided parking on  , Sujith Kumar asked his inspectors to immediately survey the road. He said the police department had sanctioned 27 new signals in the city and they would introduce them wherever required. Regarding traffic congestion on NSR Road, he promised to deploy home guards in the area to regulate traffic.
 
 The officials have taken note of several issues, including encroachment of roads by residents, unauthorised eateries on roadsides and haphazard numbering of the residences in the area, for further discussion.
 
 The corporation commissioner has assured to inspect storm water drains at R K Naidu layout and Ramalinga Nagar when residents complained that the drains did not have proper gradient. Police officials, meanwhile, promised to increase patrolling in the area, especially near R K Naidu layout, Ramalinga Nagar and K K Pudur areas, to curb crime rates.
 
  The officials also used the platform to sensitise the residents on segregating waste and the need to install CCTV cameras facing roads.
 
 
