Madurai: Developmental activities in the constituencies of MLAs who were disqualified last year have gone from bad to worse with the MLAs claiming that they have not been able to secure funds for works from the government. 

 The situation is almost similar in Andipatti, Periyakulam, Paramakudi, Nilakottai, Sattur and Manamadurai in the region whose representatives were disqualified for supporting T T V Dhinakaran. 
 
 The telling fluctuation of fortunes is starkly visible at Andipatti, once glorified as the constituency of Jayalalithaa. Steeped in neglect, the government has been accused of not taking any initiative to implement new schemes here. 
 
 MLA Thanga Tamilsevan says that the construction of a bus stand at Kumili in his constituency at a cost of Rs 3 crore had the nod of Jayalalithaa. “I have made many representations for it in the Assembly before the trouble brewed, but, nothing has been done. The combined water scheme for Kadamalai Mayilai has been a total failure and we have been demanding construction of a check dam in Moola Vaigai, but that too has not been done,” he said.
 
 Periyakulam constituency had been a godforsaken place even when deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam was its MLA and now things had turned worse, alleged Forward Bloc state committee member SSB Suryanarayanan. 
 
 Road works were being carried out at the slowest pace, he said. Periyakulam MLA Dr C Kathirkamu alleges that he is not able to get things done for his constituency.
 
  ``The headquarters of Theni district, Theni town, falls in my constituency and I wanted to beautify it by shifting the electric poles on the main roads to the centre of the road. I have not got an opportunity to discuss it beyond the suggestion stage in the Assembly, as also many other schemes including the conversion of the Theni government hospital into a Siddha hospital,’’ he said.
 
 A seven-year-old demand for a panchayat primary school for the children of quarry and fireworks industry workers of Anthi Nagaram in Kandrakottai panchayat in Sattur in Virudhunagar district was still pending and there was no hope for 60 children of this village as the MLA S G Subramanian had been disqualified, says CPM district committee member K Subburaj.
 
 People of Paramakudi, in Ramanathapuram, Nilakottai in Dindigul and Manamadurai in Sivaganga district, also have not seen any developmental activity in their constituencies after the disqualification. 
 
 Paramakudi MLA S Muthaiah said he had met the Governor to point out that the government was not carrying out developmental activities in his constituency. ``The government is implementing projects in favour of the local minister but not me, the neighbouring MLA” , he said.
 
 Manamadurai has never been able to boast about infrastructure development, and now the disqualification of the MLA, S Mariappan Kennedy had made matters worse, said Chandrasekhar of Manamadurai. ``While other constituencies have a functional MLA, we do not have an MLA or local body representative, which makes it really difficult to even get a road laid,’’ he said. Nilakottai, Sattur and Manamadurai MLAs could not be reached for comments.
 
 
