One of the biggest debates nationally has been the response to actress Parvathy’s displeasure over the misogynistic dialogues in the Mammootty-starrer  , which she voiced at a recent film festival. The comments led to widespread hate campaigns against the actress, who now awaits the release of her Malayalam film, My Story. This film, incidentally, is the directorial debut of Bengaluru-based designer  . The film, which is slated to release in March, began its publicity with the start of this new year. But much to the team’s chagrin, there is a lot of hate spewing online. 
In fact, when a song from the film was released online, the dislike option was put into overdrive. “We knew that there would be certain reaction to the film, since it stars  . The film is slated for a release soon, so we had to cash in on the new year time, which is good for promotions. But, we didn’t expect the volume of dislikes and comments on the online pages of our song uploads. While everyone has the right to express their views and are free to like or dislike what they want online, it is deeply saddening to see the kind of hatred prevalent online,” points out Roshni.
 Quiz her if this will change the course of her marketing plans for the film and she says, “No, I do not think this will change anything. I am sure   ( ), the rest of the industry and all others will understand the values of production and the fact that there is hard-earned money invested here. Also, the audience understands the value of good content and are sensible to not be deterred by such rows. The people involved in creating these messages and threats aren’t even directly related to the issue. They have just jumped in for their own interests and reasons. It is, however, off-putting to go online and check our social media pages, as there is a barrage of lewd comments. When the basic human nature is to love, why is everyone showing Parvathy so much hate.” 
 Roshni, however, adds a word of caution to Parvathy to exercise restraint. “It is unfair to see the attack on Parvathy, but she must also not add to the drama by instigating them with her messages on social media. (Parvathy apparently tweeted — What a glorious time to be alive! Everyone showing their truest colours ?? *sits back with popcorn and watches on*) She should ideally be quiet through this time and not trigger more such hatred,” signs off Roshni. 
 
