CHANDIGARH: Parents of students studying in Mount   School, Sector 47 have lodged a complaint with the Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights, saying that the school denied roll numbers to those who had not deposited hiked fee and late fee. These are parents who got the fee hike stayed by court last year. The commission has summoned school authorities on Monday to record statements.

 Gurpreet Katwal, president, Mount Carmel Parent’s Association said, “These are parents who are involved in a court case on fee hike with the school. While some parents paid the late fees and hiked fees under pressure, four did not do so, quoting the stay on fee hike by the district court. Therefore, the school did not give roll numbers of their children studying in classes X and XII. On Thursday, two parents went to meet the principal but school authorities, including the class teacher, did not let them.” 
 
 He said other parents paid up because the school was harassing students by denying them roll numbers. He also questioned the school on charging Rs 7,000 as late fee.
 
 Denying allegations, school authorities said they held roll numbers of only those students who had not paid fees. School principal   said, “The fees of a few students is pending and their parents have been asked to clear the dues. The order of the civil judge was stayed by the appellate court. We have asked parents to submit their dues.”
 
 President, Chandigarh Parents Association   said, “Harassing children over fee matters in any way amounts to cruelty, which is a criminal offence under Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act. An FIR should be registered against the school.”
 
 The district court stayed the fee hike but the school is now harassing children, parents alleged. Board exams will begin on March 5.
 
 Four parents submitted written complaints to president, Mount Carmel Parents’ Association, Gurpreet Katwal on Friday. In their complaint, they wrote that they had sent the fee to the school by speed post but the school is asking for hiked fee and has denied admit cards to their children. He said the students are stressed because they don’t have admit cards. 
 
 Members of the   also forwarded a letter to the CCPCR, written by a member of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Priyank Kanoongo to chief secretary, Government of Uttarakhand on Februray 12. It says, “Reported cases of suicidal deaths of school students due to harassment for non-payment of school fee and discriminative behavior by school authorities/principals/teachers is a grave concern.”
 
 In the letter, Kanoongo requested the chief secretary “to issue directions to private school authorities to deal all fee related issues with parents and not with students and prevent fee related harassment and suicidal deaths among school students.”
 
 
