KOLKATA: The city may be enjoying a rare chilly spell this winter but a large number of Kolkatans have come under the weather ever since the mercury started plunging last week. There has been a near four-fold spurt in the number of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) cases, congestive heart failure and asthma patients across the city’s private hospitals — the elderly and children have been affected more than the rest. 

 Experts believe the disease spurt can be controlled only if the minimum temperature pushes up to the 15- 16°C mark. AMRI Hospital,  , has seen a rise in the number of patients suffering from lung and cardiac diseases since end-December. “The prevailing temperature is ideal for streptococcus pneumoniae and respiratory syncytial viruses that trigger COPD and result in Type II respiratory failure. 
 
 Once the latter strikes, oxygen level dips in the blood and carbon dioxide level rises. It could be fatal and requires immediate ventilation support. We have seen a substantial rise in the number of these patients,” said Debashish Saha, consultant, AMRI. Congestive heart failure, too, has turned very frequent,   added. Those with a pre-existing cardiac condition are more at risk. “In fact, almost 75% of the cardiac patients had an existing condition,” said Saha. The winter chill leads to a constriction of blood vessels, leading to a further narrowing of those which have existing blockages. This often triggers a heart attack, according to Arindam  , consultant, general medicine at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). 
 
 
  
 The hospital has seen a three-fold rise in COPD and cardiac patients. “Apart from this, we have had a sizeable number of patients who contracted viral and bacterial infections which triggered COPD. The present weather conditions are ideal for a group of viruses to thrive and those with lower immunity are at risk. This group includes diabetics, those with chronic renal diseases, patients who have undergone bone marrow transplant or renal transplant. Children and the elderly have lower immunity in any case. Infections have been leading to respiratory failure quite frequently this season,” added Biswas. And it’s not just viruses, but even bacteria like klebsiella pneumoniae and haemophilus influenzae are also activated when the mercury hovers around 10- 12°C. These, too, can have the same impact as their viral counterparts. “They might trigger upper respiratory infection that has been very frequent this time,” said  , consultant, Apollo Gleneagles Hospital. Asudden temperature slide also makes cholesterol levels shoot up, enhancing risk of both heart attack and brain stroke. 
 
 Experts advise an oil and fat-free diet to allow the heart to function efficiently. “Cardiac patients in particular need to have frequent but light meals. Their hearts are overworked in winter and a heavy diet makes it work harder which could be risky,” explained Biswas. Children, too, have been finding it difficult to cope with the weather. Many have been struck down by the RSV virus that triggers bronchiolitis, a lung infection that causes inflammation and constriction of the bronchial airways in children. “Asthma, too, has been getting aggravated while respiratory distress triggered by viral attacks have been very frequent. A good number of children have needed hospitalization,” said  , paediatrician.
