NEW DELHI: In an unusual and unprecedented step, Delhi assembly   on Wednesday said at a   that LG Anil   had “violated the   and Indian culture” by not giving him time for a meeting despite written and telephonic requests from the Speaker’s secretariat in the first week of January. The Speaker wanted a meeting with the LG to convey his New Year greetings. Goel said that he easily gets appointments with the President and Lok Sabha Speaker for courtesy calls but not from the LG.

 The Speaker finally wrote a letter to him on January 10 to convey his greetings. “The LG reciprocated on January 23 by writing a letter in which he did not express any regret for not meeting me,” he said.
 
 The Speaker sent another letter to the LG on Wednesday in which he said it was painful to see AAP legislators struggling to get time from his office for meeting him – on January 29, a group of AAP MLAs waited for over four hours outside Raj Niwas before they got the opportunity to meet the LG to discuss the ongoing sealing drive. Goel said that it was, however, very easy for the four BJP MLAs to meet the LG. He alleged that the “conduct of the LG is not adding dignity to his office.”
 
 Calling the LG as “de facto leader of the Opposition”, the letter says “reports of MLAs, ministers and even the chief minister not being granted an audience by the LG are becoming frequent.”
 
 Despite repeated attempts by TOI, there was no response from the LG’s office till late in the night.
 
 Meanwhile, the Speaker reiterated that there was no question of removing the portrait of Tipu Sultan from the gallery of the assembly. BJP MLA Manjinder Singh Sirsa has said that Tipu Sultan was a "traitor" and his portrait would not be allowed to be put up in the assembly.
 
 “It is the habit of BJP to create controversy. Tipu Sultan was a patriot and his portrait will continue to adorn the assembly’s gallery,” Goel said. He warned of strict action if anybody removed Tipu’s portrait. A CCTV camera has been installed near the portrait to deter any such act. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Republic Day unveiled portraits of 70 freedom fighters, including Tipu’s, in the assembly.
 
