Chandigarh: Sitting in the first row of the auditorium were four gentlemen, looking extremely at ease with the surroundings. As if they had come home. While, two of them had their stuffs on their sides, one of them was seen holding a memento. The fourth one was sunk in his seat wearing a hat. “I always wear this hat you know. Since, now, I have no hair,” said Harbans Singh Saini (97), the eldest one among the four oldest alumni who turned up for Punjab Engineering College’s (PEC) Alumni Meet 2018 held on Saturday.

 Reminiscing about their bygone days as students of this college, while it was still in Lahore (now in Pakistan), Er B S Grewal (95), Brigadier (Retd) Gobinder Singh (93) and Er Gurlal Singh Tandon (93) alongwith Harbans Singh Saini (97) spoke about their experiences as students and how their lives changed post-partition in 1947. While Grewal and Saini are from the 1943 batch, Singh and Tandon, are from the 1947 batch of the institution. “There was a lot of hue and cry during the time of partition, when I came to India with my family. We (people of India and Pakistan) were free birds in Lahore, but the partition tied us,” said Er B S Grewal, with a straight face, almost staring into mid-distance.
 
 After Partition, Grewal moved to Ambala Cantonment in Haryana and was the SDO then. However, he later moved to the Punjab government departments and retired as a chief engineer in 1971. “It feels like a lifetime now. The building of our college was too huge and had large doors and was very airy,” said Grewal, with bubbling enthusiasm. 
 
 “We are from the earliest batch attending this event today, there is no one more senior to us,” declared Saini, while finding his place in the alley. Saini, who retired as the chief engineer (irrigation) in 1980, went abroad to study from the University of Tennessee and graduated in Hydraulics. “When he came back to India in the year 1946-47, he was recognised as the only Indian with a qualification in hydraulics then,” said Ranjan Mohan Singh, his son. Saini also opted to teach in PEC, when he was asked to set up a department for engineering in hydraulics.
 
 When asked about the address of the college in Lahore, the alumni retorted in unison saying, “Mughalpura Town, close to Mughal Gardens.” “There was also a Sikh National College, almost a mile before our college,” they added.
 
 Gobinder Singh, who was a freedom fighter, was also a part of the Quit India Movement and spent 10 months in Borstal Jail, Lahore (now in Pakistan) along with late former Prime Minister I K Gujaral. “We used to be handcuffed together,” he said. “I remember spending time with Gurlal (another batchmate from 1947) under a tree in the backyard of our college,” he added with a smile. 
 
 However, Gurlal Singh (93), who retired as a chief engineer, was a meritorious student of his batch, back in 1947. “At that time civil engineering was the most popular stream and it had great importance. There were over 50% Muslim male students in our college and we all used to frolic around together. Before I joined PEC (then known as Mclegin College of Engineering), I did my BA from F C College, Lahore as well,” he said.
 
 Singh, later in his life, spent a great deal of time with Le Corbusier and was, also, a mind behind the design of the Assembly building in Chandigarh.
 
 When asked about the importance of engineering as a vocational discipline in today’s time, the four of them seemed hesitant to answer. “I think engineering has always been a popular course in India, even though each time period has its own type of engineering. Nowadays, the options have increased. But PEC will always be valuable to me,” said Brigadier Gobinder Singh.
 
 The four of them were also awarded with mementos specifying their batches and their association to the college.
 
 
