CHANDIGARH: Taking cognizance of a petition apprehending lawlessness in Haryana during   president Amit Shah’s ‘Yuva Hunkar Rally’ on bikes in Jind district on February 15, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday issued notice to the Union ministry of home affairs ( ) and the state government, seeking their response on the issue.

 The petitioner has alleged that presence of one lakh motorbikes in city during Shah’s visit may witness hooliganism of party workers and create chaos and traffic jams on state/national highways in the state adversely affecting the travel time of ambulances and other emergency vehicles.
 
 The Haryana unit of BJP, through its president   and the state election commission, have also been asked to file its reply on the issue by the Wednesday.
 
 The matter has reached the HC in the wake of a petition filed by a Chandigarh-based NGO Arrive Safe Society through its president  . The petitioner has sought directions to protect the life, liberty and property of the public at large in the state of Haryana and specially the residents of Jind on February 15 when the BJP has planned to organize a ‘Yuva Hunkar Rally’ with around one lakh motor bikes.
 
 According to the petitioner, the rally may lead to traffic chaos which may result in road accidents and would violate right to free movement of the citizens of India.
 
 The petitioner has submitted that he has come to know through various media reports that around one lakh motorcycles would ply during the February 15 rally in support of  , which may disturb the peace and harmony of local resident.
 
 “BJP chief is supposed to kick off party’s 2019 Lok Sabha campaign through this rally, which itself is in violation of guidelines issued by Election Commission of India. It is a trite fact that the supporters of political parties violate traffic rules (ride two wheelers without helmet, drive in wrong direction, jump red lights, triple riding etc) block traffic and indulge in hooliganism. This sets a bad example to the youngsters, encouraging them to violate rules of the road. The chaos and traffic jam adversely affects the travel time of ambulances and other emergency vehicles,” the petitioner has argued.
 
 Referring to the past incidents of violence that had taken place during previous incidents of violence at Rampal’s ashram, Jat agitation and the recent dera violence because of large gathering, the petitioner has sought directions for necessary directions to the authorities to take the preventive measures in advance for maintenance law and order. The petitioner had also impleaded the Jat leader,   as respondent but court removed him as party in view of the announcement made by Malik’s outfit to withdraw its agitation.
 
 
