“I have killed my wife and daughters. I am at my home in Ratnam Tower in Vastrapur. Please come” — the city police control room received this call at 7.30am from a man. Even though the cops too were confounded by the call in cold-blood, they rushed to the spot and indeed found Dharmesh Shah, 59, chairman of a construction firm, sitting in the drawing room with his younger brother   and Dinesh Prajapati, a friend. Shah pointed at three bedrooms of his residence, each contained a body bearing bullet wounds. Shah had killed his wife Ami, 59, along with daughters — Heli, 24, and  , 19.

 
 
 
 According to Shah’s statement with Vastrapur police, he had got married to Ami in 1993. While Heli had degree of BTech (civil), Diksha was studying for BTech degree at CEPT University. Heli used to look after Dharmesh’s office Diva Infracon in   that is associated with industrial construction projects.
 
 
  
 
 “Dharmesh mentioned that Heli wanted to go for further studies at Deakin University in Melbourne, Australia. She had taken admission in MBA (project management) and her paper processing was completed. She was to take visa and complete formalities. The step was a major bone of contention between Dharmesh and Ami. Ami was keen on sending Heli to Australia. The cost of entire course was about Rs 70 lakh,” said an investigator.
 
 On May 21, Dharmesh had a long discussion with Heli and Ami about his financial condition once he came back from office at 6.30pm as the motherdaughter duo had insisted on expediting the visa process. Dharmesh’s firm was incurring losses and he had taken loan of Rs 10 crore from a bank and another Rs 5 crore from his friends and relatives at the rate of 2% per month. He was thus not keen on sending Heli and had asked her to wait for some time. The couple had arguments going on till 1am.
 
 
 
 
 On Tuesday, Dharmesh woke up at 7am and got hold of his two licensed firearms — a Russian-made pistol and a 12-bore gun — which he had kept in his bedroom. He pulled the trigger on his wife from close range which resulted in her instantaneous death. He tried to fire another round but the cartridge got jammed.
 
 “Dharmesh mentioned in his statement that he then got hold of the gun and approached the bedroom where Heli was asleep. He fired two rounds, hitting Heli on head and torso while she was still asleep. He then returned to his bedroom and loaded two more rounds. By that time, Diksha came out of her bedroom to inquire about the noise. Before she could venture further, two bullets hit her on her right shoulder and torso as she collapsed near her bedroom, located near the entrance of the residence,” said an investigator.
 
 
 
 
 Shah again loaded the gun with two more rounds to kill self as he called up Dinesh Prajapati, his friend who works as an engineer in his firm, to inform him about his deeds and about his imminent suicide. Alarmed, Prajapati asked him to hold the line and made a conference call to Viren, Dharmesh’s younger brother living near  . The duo asked Dharmesh not to commit suicide and said that they were soon reaching his residence. Shah used Prajapati’s phone once they met him to dial 100.
 
