PUNE: The   on Monday arrested a 40-year-old criminal on police record and detained two others for trying to manhandle and blacken the face of   accused  . The incident took place while Ekbote was being taken to the court lock-up after a remand proceeding before special judge Pralhad Bhagure in the afternoon.

 Lawyer Amol Dange, who represented Ekbote, told TOI, “The incident occurred in the corridor outside the court room shortly after the proceeding was over. Ekbote was being taken to the lock-up when some men tried unsuccessfully to rough him up and blacken his face.” The police were swift enough to apprehend the men.
 
 Senior inspector Prabhakar Shinde later identified the arrested man as  , a resident of Upper Indiranagar in Bibvewadi. Waghmare is the founder president of   and also heads its youth wing. “We have also detained two of his accomplices and are questioning them,” Shinde said.
  
 
 Waghmare has been charged with offences punishable under Sections 351 (assault), 352 (punishment for assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging his duty) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 Shinde said, “The Shivajinagar police had arrested Waghmare in a murder case in 2010, the Bibvewadi police had arrested him in a cheating case in 2016, while the Swargate police had arrested him in a rioting case in 2006. The Wanowrie police, too, had taken prohibitory action against Waghmare in 1997.” 
 
 Earlier, judge Bhagure passed an order extending Ekbote’s remand in police custody till March 21 “in the interest of justice” after additional public prosecutor Vilas Pathare moved a report on behalf of the Pune rural police’s investigating officer Ganesh More seeking a nine-day custodial remand for the accused. The report stated that Ekbote had not cooperated with the investigators during his five-day custodial remand that ended on Monday. 
 
 The prosecution submitted that Ekbote has continued to give evasive replies on the ‘missing’ mobile phone handset which he was using till January 2; the four to five youngsters with whom he had a meeting at Hotel Sonai near Perne Phata a few days before the riots and the objectionable pamphlets, which he got printed and issued to two youths for distribution in and around Koregaon Bhima ahead of the riots. 
 
 Ekbote has maintained that he has lost the mobile handset, but the police have witnesses and evidence about the handset being used with a different SIM card. On the meeting in Hotel Sonai and the duo whom he gave the pamphlets for distribution, Ekbote claimed that he can’t remember anything nor did he know the two youths, the report added. The manager of a credit society to whom Ekbote claimed to have given his handwritten pamphlet for printing, has denied having printed the pamphlets and Ekbote is not forthcoming on the exact source, the report said.
 
 Senior lawyer S K Jain opposed the remand plea, arguing that custodial remand cannot be granted for the reasons mentioned in the previous remand plea and that, the accused had cooperated with the investigation and there was nothing to be recovered from him.
 
 In his order, judge Bhagure referred to Ekbote’s non-cooperation cited by the police and observed, “The cellphone is a material property in this case. It is not recovered yet. Considering the nature of the offence and seriousness of the matter, it would be proper to give reasonable opportunity to the investigating officer to investigate the matter. Therefore, in the interest of justice, accused is remanded in police custody till March 21.”
 
 
 
