Early Thursday morning began on a somber note for the team of the Kannada General Entertainment Channel (GEC) behind  , as a fire that broke out in the film city —where the set is situated in the outskirts of the city— gutted the house completely. A freak electric short circuit at an adjoining building is believed to be the cause for the massive blaze that engulfed the Bigg Boss house in no time.  , the head of the Kannada TV channel, says, “The biggest relief is that there have been no human casualties in the fire. There is, no doubt, massive financial loss as the entire structure is gutted, but this incident is more an emotional loss for the entire team associated with the show. Ever since the set was moved to Bengaluru three years ago, we have been working here, spending close to 135 days in a year on the show, so, all of us are very attached to the house. Right now, we are at ground zero; the entire structure needs to be put up again. Normally the months from February to May is time off for the team working on Bigg Boss, when we concentrate on other projects. But with the new season slated to kick off in the last week of August and there being no infrastructure in place, it looks like we will be at the drawing table soon. We will have to assess the actual damage and see how soon we can have the structure up.”

 I'm in Thailand preparing for my next film. I heard about the fire, but I'm not aware of more details. I feel sad hearing about this incident, as this house has been an integral part of my life for the past few months. 
 —  , Bigg Boss Kannada host
 
 I am dejected. The house gave me plenty of memories to cherish for a life time. I am a celebrity now only because of the show. I was thinking of visiting the house, but the fire now has caused irreparable damage.
 —  , Bigg Boss Kannada Season 5 runner-up
 
 The fire has not only burnt down the house, but our memories as well. I was in the house for 105 days. It is sad this incident happened when our memories are still so fresh.
 — Shruti Prakash, Bigg Boss Kannada Season 5 finalist
 
 It is unimaginable that the house burnt down. It was like my own world. Even though the show is over, I still cherish the days I spent in the house. I hope they recreate it as it was 
 —  , finalist, Bigg Boss Kannada Season 5 
 
 (With inputs from Vinay Lokesh)
 
 
 
