Those in Thiruvananthapuram can now breathe a sigh of relief when it comes to emergency trauma care at the time of an accident. On Monday, the city’s police department launched an app called ANSWER or Ambulance Networking System With Emergency Response, which connects the user, ambulance services and hospitals to assist in quick and efficient ambulance transfers.

 Jayadev G IPS Dy Commissioner of Police, Thiruvanathapuram, tells us, “We have associated with the   aiming at offering immediate and best service to the trauma care victims. They will be taken to the nearest hospital in minimum amount of time. ANSWER is an easy app to use and that includes all ambulance drivers who are in the 108 service system.”
 
 The app was inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in December end and was run on trial basis for a week. “From Monday, it’s active in Thiruvananthapuram city and if things go as planned, we will be expanding it across the district and eventually to the entire State,” he says.
 
 Poovar-based   is the brain behind the app. He says, “Those in need of the ambulance service or the bystander can make use of the app to call the nearest ambulance.” Those who don’t have the app installed on their mobile phones can also dial 100 and the police network centre that is connected via a web portal shall trace the location of the caller and assist in providing access to the emergency services at the earliest, he says.
 
 “As all ambulances in the city are registered with the app, depending on the severity of the accident, the nearest ICU or non ICU ambulance will be dispatched,” explains Danish.
 
 Apart from emergency distress alerts, the app also stores important health data of the person including blood group, existing diseases and personal medications.
 
 “At the time of a distress call, the app will enquire if the alert is for self or another person. If it’s for the user, then the medical data will also be forwarded to the police networking centre,” says Danish, who had previously developed another application that allows approaching ambulances to get a green light at traffic signals.
 
