NAGPUR: A day after news of the alleged sexual abuse by former Pro VC Gaurishanker Parasher and dean of interdisciplinary studies Rajashree   spread, the survivor was ostracized by the  's social media alumni group allegedly at the behest of the latter who is one of the administrators of the alumni group. Vaishnav didn’t respond to TOI’s calls and SMS. 

 The survivor said that she had approached the university top officers with her grievance on February 19 but was turned away. “They taunted me saying I should have approached the police if something of such a magnitude had happened,” she said.
 
 She said that her batchmates from the NU’s postgraduate department of education at   had approached the NU with written complaints against Vaishnav on different issues. But they were met with an indifference in the past. 
 
 She said she had joined the group recently to gather support against Vaishnav and coax other ‘victims’ to raise their voice. “So far, I had not posted any objectionable material not even the clippings from today’s newspapers,” she said.
 
 Parasher had told TOI on Sunday that all the charges against were fabricated. But the NU student said the former Pro-VC has been frequenting the premises on a daily basis. “Since July 2016, we have been observing that he would visit the department and spend almost entire day in Vaishnav’s cabin,” she claimed.
 
 Parasher didn’t answer TOI’s calls on Monday.
 
 The survivor claimed that her removal from the WhatsApp alumni group has intimidated other ‘victims’ who had pledged support to her. Three of her batchmates had pledged support in the case but two decided to back out after a section of media questioned the veracity of charges mentioned in the FIR, she said.
 
 On Monday, the lone student recorded her statement in support of the survivor at   police station. The police said they had summoned Vaishnav and Parasher for questioning. 
 
 Meanwhile, acting vice chancellor   said the university hasn’t received any official communication regarding the former Pro-VC and Vaishnav, who is head of the PG department. He also ruled out any action in the case until NU receives any complaint.
 
 In her police complaint, the survivor alleged that Vaishnav used to coerce female students to ‘gratify’ Parasher to score more marks in dissertations. The FIR states that on March 20, 2017, Parasher was present in Vaishnav’s cabin and made undue advances towards the MEd student, a claim trashed by the both accused.
 
 
