Almost all state governments whose ban on “Padmaavat” was struck down by the Supreme Court adopted a wait-and-watch approach on Thursday, saying they would first study the apex court’s order in detail. The governments of Rajasthan, Gujarat, MP and Haryana had banned the film. Rajasthan home minister Gulab Chand Kataria said the state would abide by the court’s decision but would also explore possible legal alternatives after reading the ruling. “Our legal experts will peruse the apex court’s verdict to find out if there are any legal options at our disposal,” he told TOI.

 The Rajasthan government on January 8 had issued a statement banning the film saying, “Rani Padmini's sacrifice is a matter of honour and pride for the state and hence Rani Padmini is not just a chapter in history but our dignity. We will not allow defamation of her honour."
 
 Madhya Pradesh home minister Bhupendra Singh, who had earlier warned that anyone who even plays the Ghoomar song should be reported to police, said on Thursday that the government will take a decision “as per the court order and after a review of law and order”. State BJP chief Nandkumar Singh Chauhan added to the uncertainty by saying that the government will take a decision “keeping public sentiment in mind”. 
 
 The Gujarat government said it would decide necessary action after studying the court order. “We had issued a notifications banning the film twice in Gujarat, to maintain law and order in the state. It has distorted historical facts due to which the Kshatriya samaj has taken offence,” Gujarat’s junior home minister Pratapsinh Jadeja said.
 
 “As a party in the Supreme Court, we strongly argued in favour of the ban… We told the SC that the film can create a major law and order problem and the ban must be continued. We will examine the order of the SC and take necessary steps. We have tasked people with maintaining peace and law and order,” Jadeja said. Haryana DGP B S Sandhu said as per the SC order, all steps would be taken to maintain law and order.
 
