Kolkata:  , a celebration marking the birth of Lord Ram, claimed a life in Bengal — for the first time in recent memory — as politicians sought to outdo each other in proving their devotion to one of the foremost icons of the Hindu pantheon.

 Sheikh Shahjahan, 55, of Purulia’s Bhursa village died when he was attacked by a mob while he was relieving himself near the village pond on Sunday afternoon. ADG (law and order) Anuj Sharma said four policemen, including DSP (headquarters) Subrata Kumar Pal, were injured when they tried to intervene. Pal and his security guard, both in serious condition, were being brought to Kolkata for treatment.
 
 Police said this was in retaliation to an attack on a Ram Navami procession that happened a few hours earlier. “There was a BJP procession in the village and it took permission, but it deviated from the route agreed on,” said a senior officer. When some unidentified persons set bikes of the rallyists on fire, clashes erupted among the groups, and 17 people were detained.
 
 In North 24-Parganas, a police outpost in Jagaddal was ransacked, leaving several injured. Another clash occurred in Hooghly’s Chinsurah, but at other places, Trinamool Congress successfully hijacked what was meant to be a “saffron” show. BJP leaders responded through defiance, brandishing weapons.
 
 In the potential flashpoints, Trinamool fielded heavyweight leaders to lead Ram Navami processions. Refusing to cede an inch to BJP, in Birbhum for example, Chandranath Singh, Asish Banerjee and Anubrata Mondal led separate marches to combat one led by BJP leader Locket Chatterjee in Rampurhat. Trinamool’s Tamluk MP Dibyendu Adhikari led a mammoth rally in Contai. Trinamool leaders led similar processions in North 24-Parganas (ministers Jyotipriya Mullick and Bratya Basu), Howrah (ministers Arup Ray and Laxmi Ratan Shukla) and even Kolkata (ministers Firhad Hakim and Sadhan Pande).
 
 The discomposure of Trinamool workers and leaders was evident, accustomed as they are in holding a rally carrying saffron flags with “Om” printed on them.
 
 In Kolkata’s Kasba, Faiz Ahmed Khan, Trinamool councillor of Ward 66, took out a rally that outnumbered the one taken out by Hindusthan Hindu Raksha Sena. Shouting “Jai Sri Ram” slogans, rallyists sporting red and saffron bandanas crossed thickly populated neighbourhoods. “It was necessary to counter a BJP-RSS propaganda and a conscious effort to polarise people on religious lines. If Hindus can participate in Eid celebrations, Muslims can take part in Ram Navami rallies too,” said Khan.
 
 Defying the ban on carrying weapons in public, several armed rallies were taken out by Sangh affiliates in various parts of the state, including Birbhum, West Midnapore, Howrah and certain places in Kolkata. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh briefly held a sword; Locket Chatterjee was seen carrying a trident; and BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha also brandished a weapon. “Arms are nothing but symbols,” explained BJP leader Mukul Roy. “No one carries arms in rallies to indulge in fights. I think the Trinamool government is trying to create an unnecessary controversy over the Ram Navami armed rallies.”
 
 The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) has taken notice of reports of minors brandishing arms in Ram Navami rallies. “We have received a report that children took part in a Ram Navami rally in   with weapons. We have contacted the local administration and police about it,” said Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborty, WBCPCR chairperson. “The district magistrate’s office accepted that the kids started the rally but police took away their weapons as soon as it came to their notice,” she added.
 
 
