Thiruvananthapuram: The police have formed a 15-member-team of officers in mufti, which will be deployed around   campus to nab   and molesters, who are a menace to women working there. 

 Among the team, six are women, all of whom part of the first ever women’s battalion that finished their training at the police academy recently. The team would patrol the service roads and bylanes near the Park, dressed to look like young professionals. 
 
 Kazhakkoottam Cyber City assistant commissioner R Anilkumar said that the idea of using   to trap offenders might sound improper. “However, we would rather our officers near the perpetrators than innocent women, who may not know how to react to the situation,” the assistant commissioner said. 
 
  The addition of six women officers to the team will also put an end to the complaint that there are not enough women cops in the cybercity station under the limits of which thousands of women professionals work. 
 
 This ‘mufti’ squad is in addition to the existing four teams of patrol squads that routinely patrol the area daily. 
 
 The move is part of works initiated by the city police to ensure the security of professionals working in Technopark after a woman techie was attacked by a molester in her paying guest facility recently. 
 
 The police arrested an autorickshaw driver who had assaulted the techie while she was sleeping at the PG facility at night. 
 
 The main reason why the police decided to deploy the mufti squad is because the service roads on either side of the national highway here are poorly lit. These roads as well as most bylanes nearby are devoid of streetlights. 
 
 The ACP himself has approached the KSEB authorities and even city corporation mayor V K Prasanth, who is also the elected representative of Kazhakkoottam ward, and apprised them about the condition here. 
 
 In another development, the police convened a meeting of owners of paying guest facilities in the region to discuss with them about setting up of surveillance cameras and employing security guards in their facilities in the wake of the recent attack on the techie. As many as 120 persons attended the meeting, which was held on Tuesday. 
 
 “Considering the actual number of persons operating paying guest facilities here, 120 is a very small number. However, all those who have attended the meeting have agreed to the terms we put forward. They have also agreed to install surveillance cameras at the facilities before June end,” Anilkumar said.
 
 
