Walking through the forested stretch, under a scorching sun, with dried fallen leaves crumbling under the feet, the will to go on further towards an unidentified location seemed to be crumbling too.

 Within one’s mind, it was tough to decide which mistake was bigger one — starting with just three water bottles for five people or the very idea of trying to reach the remote Boriya-Kasnasur area on Gadchiroli-Chhattisgarh border that the police claimed was site of a big encounter with Naxalites.
 
 An old source, with whom I had caught up after eight years, had roped in an experienced person to take us to the spot of encounter from Alappali. After abandoning our car at  , it was a bumpy triple seat ride on motorcycle on a stony stretch to Kasnasur through forests. Our legs were painfully grazed by thorny bushes along the way. My source’s friend, high on local Mahua brew, had some relatives at Kasnasur village which was five-six kilometres from Tadgaon.
 
 The ride ended at Kasnasur and then began the walk with two local villagers by my side to show the way through the forest and numerous dried nullahs having stony beds to walk upon. The only clue we had about the spot of the encounter was the direction from where the sound of firing had been heard by the villagers accompanying us. 
 
 We also passed by the decorated thatched house of   at whose place there was a wedding during the weekend. The villagers said some Maoists had attended the wedding that possibly led to the leaking of the information about their presence on the other side of the Indravati River that could be waded through during the summer at this stretch.
 
 My source informed that the photographs circulating on social media groups had shown the bodies of slain Maoists being carried on bamboos. “The bamboos must have been cut from nearby forests. We must try to finding such bushes. The encounter spot would be close to them,” he said.
 
 We had already crossed couple broad tributaries of Indravati and nullahs on feet perilously balancing ourselves on the scalding hot rocks and equally heated sandy beds. The hot pebbles entering the shoes were unbearable as we climbed and jumped from one rock to another intermittently walking through puddles of water for relief.
 
 As we approached the thin but steady flow of Indravati, we saw some freshly cut bamboos on its sandy bank. We could spot blood stains on the sand too as we picked up the bamboos for closer inspection. A villager managed to reach a higher rock jutting out from the bed on which there were substantial blood stains. The sight was comforting for our failing nerves under the sun as we knew the destination could not be far.
 
 Jumping into knee deep water of Indravati, we kept falling into the puddles and concealed depressions which at time took the water to our chest and higher. We were bound in human chains holding each other hands firmly to ensure none is swept away or drowned. After reaching the other side of the river, we could see the forested floor strewn with materials, documents utensils and medicines of Maoists cadres who were gunned down at the place.
 
 As we advanced a few more steps on the bank, a more shocking sight awaited us. One of the villagers pointed to a body floating in the water. As I got busy clicking it, more bodies were seen floating. I counted 11 of them.
 
 It was no comfort later, when conveying my grisly find to   I was told the security forces had been wary of entering that particular stretch of river as at least four crocodiles had been spotted there in the past.
 
 
