BENGALURU: After days of uncertainty and opposition from within the party, CM   appears to have prevailed. Apart from  , he will take the electoral plunge from   in   district. The chief minister is set to file his nomination papers from the constituency on Tuesday.

 
 While   circles continued to maintain silence on the development, the tour programme released by Siddaramaiah's office for the week says he will be filing his nomination papers from Badami. The CM filed his papers in Chamundeshwari in   district on Friday.
 
 In giving Siddaramaiah the green signal much against the wishes of seniors in the party, including Mallikarjun Kharge, the Congress high command is seen as bending over backwards to accommodate the CM. His son Yathindra has been given a ticket from Varuna constituency adjoining Chamundeshwari and the CM has managed to get tickets for most of his loyalists. In return, say sources, Siddaramaiah is now expected to deliver and ensure the Congress romps back to power.
 
 It's learned that AICC general secretary KC Venugopal was keen on Siddaramaiah contesting both constituencies as Chamundeshwari may not be smooth sailing - also evident from the CM uncharacteristically devoting most of his time to the constituency. Siddaramaiah, who has been cagey about his candidature from Badami, will file his nomination between 2pm and 3pm.
 
 Even on Saturday, when asked about the seat, he only pointed to RB Thimmapur and said the Bagalkot district minister had stayed back to escort him to the constituency.
 
 As news trickled in of the chief minister heading for Badami, BJP leaders went into a huddle. Party sources said Bagalkot MP PC Gaddigoudar and former MP Vijay Sankeshwar, both Lingayats, were being considered. MP and ST leader B Sreeramulu is also being seen as a contender. He might be shifted from Molakalamuru.
 
 Sources said the BJP leadership may go in for a Lingayat candidate as the community is in a huge number in the constituency, along with Kurubas. There is also talk of a surprise candidate who may be fielded.
 
 JD(S) has fielded Hanamanthappa Mavanimard, who filed his nomination papers amid fanfare, attended by party chief HD Kumaraswamy.
 
