KOLKATA: The biggest military exercise in recent times involving the   ( ) has thrown up some collateral benefits.  , currently underway in the northern and eastern skies, has unwittingly provided many flyers from the city a dizzying g-force rush. 

 Since Tuesday, the day Gaganshakti began in the Kolkata Flight Information Region (FIR), Mumbai- and Delhi-bound flights taking off from the city airport during sorties have had to go into a steeper-than-usual climb immediately after take-off, giving flyers a little of the vertiginous thrill many actively seek in amusement park rides.
 
 The exercise in Kolkata FIR — which includes IAF bases at Kalaikunda, Barrackpore, Panagarh, Purnea, Bagdogra, Hashimara, Jorhat, Tezpur and Gorakhpur — will continue till Friday. Large chunks of airspace that are usually free for flights have been reserved by IAF for this operation. This is why flights are having to do a steeper climb. 
 
 “Flights departing during the exercise have been asked to climb to 25,000ft within 50 nautical miles (92km) against the usual ascent of 10,000ft at 25 nautical miles (46km). This has neccessitated a steeper climb,” explained an airline captain. 
 
 While restrictions are routinely imposed around Kalaikunda during sorties all year round, Gaganshakti has led to restrictions around Jamshedpur, Purnea, Bagdogra, Sikkim and the  , including Arunachal Pradesh. 
 
 The south is not affected by the exercise that involves more than 1,100 figher jets, transport planes and helicopters apart from 300 officers and 1,500 airmen. The first phase of the exercise began on April 10 and focused on the western border with Pakistan. This is phase two, with the focus on the north-eastern border with China.
 
 Prior to the exercise, IAF officers and Airports Authority of India’s air traffic control ( ) officials met over four days to chalk out airspace and corridors within the Kolkata FIR for the exercise. With the fighter planes transiting from Kalaikunda to bases in north Bengal and the Northeast required to maintain 24,000ft, passenger flights that negotiate these corridors have to fly at least 1,000ft higher at 25,000ft and beyond to avoid a possible collision.
 
 “We have notified large areas in the air where IAF is conducting its exercises four times a day. During this period, these areas are shut to civilian flights. Notice to airmen (NOTAM) has been issued to all airlines and pilots, alerting them about the changes. Controllers are guiding the planes over these exercise zones. When flights have to take off or land near these zones, they have to either do a detour or make a sharper ascent or descent,” said an ATC official.
 
 Of the 450 flights that operate to Kolkata daily, nearly two-thirds come in the ambit of the exercise zone. Only flights to south India are exempt of any restrictions. The Patna-Lucknow route in Kolkata FIR is suspended to civilian traffic during the exercise. 
 
 All departing flights are usually given the shortest route to the destination. But they are now being carefully chaperoned through the skies that have suddenly become extremely busy. Two IAF officers are present at the   round the clock to constantly coordinate with the controllers and ensure a glitch-free exercise.   has also set up a team to coordinate with IAF.
 
 The IAF exercise includes high-altitude, maritime scenarios and special operations in real time with specific focus on key areas like aerial combat, air-to-surface combat, paratrooper assault and medical evacuation.
 
 
