The year’s first sleeper hit 'Sonu Ke   Ki Sweety' (SKTKS) has been well received by the audience and actor Sunny Singh’s performance as Titu, the naive friend and lover, has also struck a chord with youngsters. Talking about the film, Sunny shares, “It’s incredible that 'SKTKS' has done so well and my work as Titu has been appreciated. The film’s success has brought me some recognition and I’m still trying to wrap my head around it. I am an actor, not a star, although I aspire to be one someday. But I know it will take me a lot more films and a lot of hard work to get there. I believe stardom is a by-product of good work.”

 Sunny reveals that he doesn’t have a game plan. “All I know is that I want to be like Ajay (Devgn) and Akshay (Kumar) sir. I only want to focus on working hard and want to act in as many as three to four films every year. There is no other game plan. I am a simple man who knows how to act and wants to work hard,” he says and adds, “There is no guarantee whether a film will be a hit or flop. While shooting for SKTKS, I knew it is a cracker of a film, but I didn’t know it will become so popular. So instead of analysing it too much, I’d much rather be in front of the camera, acting.” 
 
 And that’s exactly what Sunny was doing on the day of the film’s release. He immediately resumed shooting for his next film after wrapping up the promotions of 'SKTKS'. Talking about Sunny, director   says, “What I like the most about him is that he is a very simple man off-screen, but when he is in front of the camera, he lights up the screen. He is the most hard-working actor I have collaborated with.”
 
 While in both 'SKTKS' and '  2', Sunny has played the character of a guy who is in wrong relationships, in real life, he isn’t keen on becoming the poster boy for such relationships! He says, “Since the time the trailer of 'SKTKS' came out, people would ask me whether I am so naïve in real life as well and if I’ve been in wrong relationships. Well, the character is pretty close to who I am in real life with my parents, but that’s the only resemblance it has with me. I have no particular interest or resistance towards becoming the poster boy of wrong relationships. I would love to explore other genres as well, be it action, drama, biopics or a film based on a real-life incident.”
 
 
 
