KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Monday set aside the appointment of   as vice-chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University. A division bench of Chief Justice   and Justice   held that Sebastian did not have qualifications stipulated by  . 

 The court also found that the inclusion of Benny Behanan, who was an MLA as well as member of  's senate and syndicate, in the search committee was illegal. The petitioner alleged that Sebastian was posted vice-chancellor in August 2014 though he didn't satisfy the qualifications. 
 
 The court was considering a petition filed by Premkumar T R of Moozhikulam Sala in Ernakulam through advocate Shyam Krishnan.
 
 As per the UGC Regulations, a vice-chancellor should be a distinguished academician with a minimum of 10 years of experience as ‘professor’ in a university system or equivalent position in a reputed research or academic administrative organization, the plea said.
 
 However, Sebastian had not taught for even one day in a university. He was appointed only because he was the director of State Institute of Educational Technology (SIET), which is registered as a society, for 10 years, the petitioner alleged.
 
 The petitioner also contended that SIET comes under the general education department and deals with primary and high school students and is not in any way related to higher education. Therefore, Sebastian could not have come anywhere near the zone of consideration for the post. Upholding the contention, the court pointed out that even though the UGC regulation was adopted by the state government, it was not followed when Sebastian was appointed in August 2014.
 
 Inclusion of Benny Behanan, who was an MLA and member of MG University’s senate and syndicate, in the search committee was also found to be wrong by the court.
 
 Meanwhile, Sebastian said in Kottayam that he will react only after getting a copy of the judgment. His predecessor A V George was also removed from the post in 2014 citing similar reasons. The then Governor Sheila Dikshit had ordered George’s removal following the finding that he did not have the qualifications required to hold the post.
 
 
 
