CHANDIGARH: It was the promptness and alertness of the kidnapped victim that enabled him escape the clutches of the goons and foil their attempt to steal his car.

 Three men had kidnapped  , son of a citybased businessman, at gunpoint from outside a Sector 9 gym around 8.10pm on Wednesday. After taking him in his   car, the goons made Harpreet call up his cousin and sought a ransom of Rs 3 lakh.
 
 Industrial Area Phase-I SHO ZP Khan said the goons took Harpreet, a resident of Sector 10, to Elante mall to collect the ransom from his cousin  . Harpreet saw an opportunity and escaped. Before escaping, he took the keys of Mercedes from the dashboard. Meanwhile, the accused left in Harpreet’s car after taking the ransom from Jaskaran around 10pm.
 
 Without keys, the automatic car could not go beyond some kilometres. The goons left the car near the Kalibari lightpoint and fled.
 
 When Jaskaran informed the police and the DSP (east), Industrial Area SHO and cops from crime branch, operation cell, reached the spot. Police said Harpreet was so scared that he took around 20 minutes to come out of the mall.
 
 SSP Nilambari Vijay Jagdale also reached the spot. In his statements to the police, Harpreet said the accused drove him towards Sukhna Lake, Golf range and then to Sohana, Mohali. After two hours, they came near Elante to take the ransom, when he managed to flee.
 
 
 
 
 Now the police are scrutinizing the footage of   of the gym, at  , lake, Elante and exit points of the city. Police said mobile phones’ dump data from the crime scene have been collected and his friends were also being interrogated.
 
 Cops said one of his friends had come out of the gym with him on Wednesday. Harpreet was shown some photographs of old criminals and he has identified two to three who had some resemblance with the kidnappers. Now, the police are getting sketches prepared. Initially, the cops were confused as to which police station should register the case. Cops said Harpreet was kidnapped from Sector 3 police station jurisdiction and ransom was paid in Industrial Area from where his cousin informed the police. Later, Industrial Area police decided to register an FIR under sections of the Arms Act and kidnapping against unknown persons.
 
 Sources said after abandoning the car at Kalibari, the three accused took an auto and fled. A security guard at a factory in Industrial Area Phase-II said the accused threatened him before fleeing. Police suspect that a Ritz car-borne robber, Yodha Singh, and his aides could be involved in the kidnapping. Yodha had fled the police custody when he was brought for a court hearing on February 8.
 
