GURUGRAM: MCG alone has spent over Rs 5 crore on   waste treatment plant in the past 20 months, which till about six months back was lying defunct. This is more than double the amount the civic body spent on the plant in the previous 38 months.

  
 “An amount of Rs 513.45 lakh has been spent from June 2016 till February 2018 on account of operation, watch and ward, and all other heads at the garbage treatment plant by MCG,” the civic body has said in response to an RTI query.
 
 According to the RTI reply, the average monthly expenditure on the waste treatment plant was Rs 25 lakh from June 2016 to February 2018. On the contrary, MCG’s average monthly expenditure on the plant from January 2013 to March 2016 was barely Rs 6 lakh. Activists and environmentalists, however, said the actual expense on the Bandhwari waste treatment plant would be much higher than the quoted figure.
 
 “This amount has been spent only by MCG. The expenditure on the plant is divided between the corporations of both Gurugram and Faridabad. So the actual expenditure on the plant in the past 20 months would be much high,” said  , the RTI activist.
 
 “It is sad that public money is being wasted as the plant still remains a major health and environmental hazard for the NCR,” he added.
 
  from Haryali, an environmental NGO, who filed a petition in National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2016 for relocation of the Bandhwari waste treatment plant from the Aravalis, said, “Whether it is spraying of bio-culture or levelling and dressing of solid waste, the amount has been spent on concealment of the truth.”
 
 “The authorities have been spending money on hiding the leachate, levelling the waste and preventing smell. The waste is still mixed and destroying the environment with each passing day,” he added.
 
 The Bandhwari waste treatment plant, located off Gurugram-Faridabad Road was lying defunct for about three years after a fire broke out there. 
 
 However, MCG and Municipal Corporation of Faridabad continued to dump 1,600 tonnes of mixed waste every day at the site.
 
 MCG handed over the operations of the plant to a private company for setting up a waste-to-energy unit at Bandhwari only six months back.
 
 
 
