JAIPUR: Lacking infrastructure, directorate of local bodies (DLB) has drawn a fancy plan of launching a   app where ideas will be taken from residents to keep the state capital clean.

 
 The DLB claims that acting on the directions, soon an app will be launched where residents will be able to update local issues like poor sanitation conditions, stray animals, sewerage leaking etc.
 
 As an incentive, the contributing residents will be given cinema tickets and coupons of restaurants if their information is found to be correct. “The residents can download and free app on their mobiles. Users will be provided with a code and they can upload the problems related to civic issues. It would be verified later by the   and points will be provided to the users. The users who would score highest points would be rewarded,” said a DLB official.
 
 However, many claim that it is just an eyewash and innovative idea to waste public money. The corporation does not have sufficient infrastructure to address the problems of the residents. More than 50 per cent complaints registered at call centre are not disposed of by the administration.
 
  councillor Dharam Singh said, “Officials are far away from the reality on ground. The idea is to fool the public. The work is only done on papers and garbage continues to litter the roads”
 
 Supporting his thoughts, a   official source said, “Every day we receive more than 50 complaints of stray animals. As the Akshay Patra has refused to bring cows to cattle shelter in large number as there is no infrastructure, the JMC remains in fix and don’t catch stray cows.”
 
 During the Swachh Survekshan 2018, a similar mobile app was also launched by the JMC for citizen feedback. However, as per the March data available with TOI, majority of residents were dissatisfied with the JMC services. Out of 5,421 users received till March, majority have people have given dissatisfied remark. As per the ministry of   official website Swachh City figures, 2,919 residents had shown dissatisfaction, while 2,308 were satisfied with the JMC’s services. A total of 194 people gave neutral response.
 
