NAGPUR: The Income-Tax Department moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court against former   leader and ex-minister Satish   and his family members for allegedly evading taxes on long-term capital gains (LTCG). The IT department has valued the undisclosed income from LTCG in lakhs and is seeking probe into the politician’s finances.

 A division bench of justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and   issued notices to him, son Dushyant, along with Pallavi, Sheetal and  , asking them to reply before April 13. The former guardian minister of Nagpur was recently in the news after being expelled from the Congress for anti-party activities on a complaint lodged by the group led by former MP Vilas Muttemwar and Congress city chief Vikas Thakre.
 
 The IT Department’s principal commissioner through counsels — Anand Parchure and   — moved to the HC challenging the verdict passed by Nagpur bench of IT Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) while allowing the respondents’ appeals.
 
 Citing Chaturvedi’s individual cases, the petitioner contended that he filed a IT return on October 31, 2005, declaring a total income of Rs15.78 lakhs. The department’s investigation wing received information on certain transactions which led to a subsequent enquiry, as the assessing officer (AO) believed that taxable income may have escaped assessment.
 
 The AO reopened the assessment and found that Chaturvedi gained business income to the tune of Rs73.15 lakhs after selling shares in Investment Fund Services Limited. He calculated that total income had increased from Rs22.45 lakhs to Rs98.60 lakhs. He also found that Chaturvedi and his kin had total income in fiscal years 2004-2005 and 2005-2006 amounting to Rs3.47 crores and Rs9.68 crores, respectively.
 
 Though the respondents agreed on some items to be taxed, they disagreed on others and filed an appeal before the Commissioner of IT (Appellate) (CIT (A)) arguing that the assessments were based on change of opinion and not legal basis. CIT (A) partly allowed the appeal on the basis that AO treated the LTCG as “business income”.
 
 The petitioner then preferred an appeal in ITAT challenging CIT (A)’s decision. The respondents too, filed an appeal claiming the assessment was liable to be cancelled as it wasn’t in accordance with law. The ITAT however found that the AO failed to substantiate the quantum of taxable income, which escaped assessment under the IT Act and rejected the IT department’s appeal.
 
 The department then knocked HC’s doors contending that the assessments could be reopened if AO has reason to believe that taxable income has escaped assessment or if such instance comes to his notice. The respondents were claiming exemption under the IT Act on selling shares in IFSL. The petitioner also pointed out that the Security Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had indicted IFSL and its promoters in June 2006 for deliberate manipulation.
 
 
