HYDERABAD: Opposition Congress has described the KCR-led state government's move to crush dissent without court nod as step to stifle democracy in Telangana. "If TRS government tries to bulldoze Opposition, we will go to court against the draconian law, which is all set to be unleashed on the people. By proposing such a law, KCR's desire to suppress rights of people will be exposed. KCR's intolerance and arrogance have touched an all-time high. KCR himself used abusive language during   statehood agitation and today he's unable to tolerate any kind of criticism,"   told TOI.

 Such a proposed law has not come as a surprise for many as KCR had announced on multiple occasions on floor of the Assembly that the government will not tolerate baseless allegations against it and anybody doing so should prove charges or go to jail.   chairman  , who once led the Telangana agitation with KCR and is now a bitter rival, has described this as a direct attempt by government to ensure that no one talks of corruption, amounting to thousands of crores of rupees, in various projects implemented in Telangana.
 
 TPCC chief spokesperson   said KCR is trying to supersede the Constitution by taking away fundamental rights guaranteed to people. "KCR has no authority to permit police to book cases against those who level allegations. In case the government intends to make any changes in law, then it must do it through Assembly. The CM wants to encroach upon the jurisdiction of courts by himself acting as the judge. Such laws are always prone to misuse by the party in power and those who criticise the government could be harassed using police force. The proposed law is a direct attack on the peoples freedom of expression," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, sources in state government claimed the proposed measure has nothing to do with the Opposition or the media. "The move is to bring immediate relief to those charged with criminal intimidation. At present, getting permission from courts to prosecute offenders is taking time and the common man is being denied relief. By doing away with the need to seek court permission, we aim to provide faster relief to all victims," said a top police official on condition of anonymity.
 
 
