AMBALA: The police here have finally booked unidentified persons in the case related to the drowning of two boys into the railway's   on April 9. The move has been taken after the intervention of Haryana health minister Anil Vij. 

 Parents of the deceased said that they had approached the minister, who directed the cops to register a case and take action against the people responsible for the incident. 
 
 On April 9, the two boys - Dipanshu (13) and Sumit (11) - went for swimming at the railway's swimming pool that contained old stagnant water. Both the boys drowned there. 
 
 Dipanshu's body was fished out by labourers, who were working at the site, while Sumit was taken out after the railway and administrative authorities drained the water from the pool. 
 
 Later, the parents of the deceased refused to take their bodies and demanded action against the people responsible for ensuring adequate safety measures at the swimming pool. However, after being assured by the cops, they decided to cremate the bodies. 
 
 After the cops failed to initiate further action in this regard, the parents met the minister. Following this, Dipanshu's father, a resident of Milap Nagar, was asked to file a fresh complaint with Parao police station. 
 
 Sub-inspector Bhushan Dass said that the cops had initially carried out legal proceedings in the case, but after receiving a fresh complaint, a case under Section 304A (causing death due to negligence) was registered against unidentified persons. He said the police had initiated investigation into the case. 
 
 As of now, the cops have asked the railway authorities to provide documents and reports regarding the renovation work of the swimming pool. "Once it is ascertained as to who was responsible to ensure the safety at the pool, their names would be incorporated in the FIR," the cop said. 
 
 Divisional railway manager Dinesh Chander said it was an unfortunate incident that took place on the railway's property. 
 
 "We are working in coordination with the police department and all the facts asked by the cops will be handed over to them. There were some repairs going on at the swimming pool and it was not functional. The water inside the pool had accumulated due to rain," Chander said. 
 
 
