The vigilance special court, on Thursday, deferred the   against former finance   to June 6, but not before the court witnessed dramatic scenes and clear signs that the government was not interested in pursuing the case against the KC(M) leader.

 Vigilance legal adviser   did not want special public prosecutor K P Satheesan to appear for the agency, which was backed by Mani’s counsel. The court was considering the closure report filed by the agency in the case. The court reacted sharply to the comments of vigilance legal adviser and said that it was the government itself that appointed Satheesan as the special public prosecutor. The court also asked Mani’s counsel why he had to intervene in this matter. Later, VACB sought Satheesan’s removal; but the government did not issue an order in this matter.
 
 Interestingly, Satheesan had openly said that there was enough evidence against Mani, and the agency should have proceeded with the probe. For the third time, VACB had submitted before the special vigilance court seeking closure of the bar bribery case.
 
 VACB special investigation unit-1SP KE Byju had filed the refer report before the court, citing lack of evidence. The court, in August 2016, had asked for a fresh probe into the matter after the agency sought closure of the case twice earlier.
 
 This in turn is giving more teeth to rumours that KC (M) is inching closer to LDF that had created a major hue and cry about the bar bribery case and Mani while it was in the opposition earlier. LDF convener Vaikom Viswan’s counsel – who earlier took a stand that the case should not be closed – did not appear in court on Thursday. At the same time, the counsels of former chief minister VS Achuthanandan, BJP leader V Muraleedharan and hotelier Biju Ramesh took a stand that the case should not be closed and sought more time to file their versions.
 
 The case pertains to an allegation by Kerala Bar Hotel Association’s former working-president Biju Ramesh that hotel owners had paid Rs 1 crore as bribe to Mani to reopen the closed bars in the state.
 
 
