Transferring memories from one living thing to another sounds like the plot of an episode of “Black Mirror.” But it may be more realistic than it sounds at least for snails. In a paper published in the journal eNeuro, scientists at the   reported that when they transferred molecules from the brain cells of trained   to untrained snails, the animals behaved as if they remembered the trained snails’ experiences.

 
 David Glanzman, a professor of neurobiology at   who is an author of the new paper, has been studying  , a sea snail, for years. In experiments by Glanzman and colleagues, when these snails get a little electric shock, they briefly retract their frilly siphons, which they use for expelling waste. Recently, the scientists realised that even when they interfered with their trained snails’ brain cells in a way that should have removed the memory completely, some vestige remained. They decided to see whether something beyond the brain cells’ connections to each other — namely   — could be hanging on to the memory.
 
 You might remember RNA from high school biology: It is best known for ferrying messages between the genome and the rest of the cell. But scientists have gradually realised that there is more to RNA than playing messenger. There are some kinds of RNA that, instead of carrying messages, help switch genes on and off. They have been shown to be involved in long-term memory in snails, mice and rats, through their ability to influence chemical tags on DNA.
 
 To understand what was happening in their snails, the researchers first extracted all the RNA from the brain cells of trained snails, and injected it into new snails. To their surprise, the new snails kept their siphons wrapped up much longer after a shock, almost as if they’d been trained. Next, the researchers took the brain cells of trained snails and untrained snails and grew them in the lab. They bathed the untrained neurons in RNA from trained cells, then gave them a shock, and saw that they fired in the same way that trained neurons do. Glanzman said that this is the first study since the flatworm work to propose that memories can be transferred in such a way. 
 
