 retired yesterday as the Anti-Corruption Unit (ACU) head of the   ( ). Before leaving Mumbai for Delhi, the former top cop told Mirror that cricket regulators' anti-corruption measures are half-hearted and that human trafficking is rampant in the game.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Very rewarding. I got exposure to a totally different world. Although I was associated with major cricketing investigations in the past, to watch it over a sustained period of three years gave me a different perspective (to corruption in cricket).
 
 
 
 
 That is mostly about the emerging trends of corruption in cricket.
 
 
 
 
 The extent of corruption can never be measured. Just because something has come to light, it does not mean that it has become more and just because nothing has come to light, it has become less. There is no way to measure corruption. What we need to recognise is that the threat of corruption is always there in the game, as in other games. The world has recognised the threat and is taking stringent measures to control it in all sports.
 
 
 
 
 Of course, measures have been taken but with my experience I can say that the measures are very half-hearted. They are not adequate.
 
 
 
 
 Both. In the West Indies for instance, the corruption unit consists of just one office. Same in Zimbabwe. In Sri Lanka, again, one man. In India, there are only three men. In England, the strength has been increased to four or five but in New Zealand and other countries, the number of people is meagre.
 
 Therefore, the boards are still not fully cognizant of the extent of corruption and are not willing to invest in anti- corruption work.
 
 I would not say the same about the   (International Cricket Council). It is well equipped. But because of the funds (rather lack of them) and attitude, the boards do not understand the enormity of the problem. They don't take sustained effort to solve the problem.
 
 
 
 
 I have already mentioned about the BCCI in my email (to board CEO  ), which is in the public domain. The staff has remained the same from the day I joined to the day I left. Nobody wants to know what it (the ACU) is doing. It is just there, ticks a box.
 
 I won't say the BCCI is not serious about eliminating corruption but the ACU needs to be strengthened.
 
 
 
 
 I will not like to comment on that.
 
 
 
 
 It is by and large corruption free. Again, because something has not come to our notice, we cannot claim that nothing hanky-panky has happened. Because it is a high-stakes tournament, it is that much more vulnerable to corruption.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The biggest achievement was unravelling of minor, private and unauthorised leagues which are sources of corruption. We have unearthed them and managed to disrupt them too. Because of that, a number of leagues that were planned were abandoned.
 
 The only reason for having such leagues was to make money out of betting and fixing. The game goes according to a script, some of them would even be listed on betting sites. We succeeded in controlling rather than eliminating them.
 
 The second big success was preventing attempts of pitch-fixing in the IPL last year. We arrested some in Kanpur.
 
 The third thing was that we caught a gang headed by a certain   with the help of Mumbai crime branch and busted his gang which was cheating players by luring them with offers in the IPL.
 
 We arrested one person called  , who was involved in cheating cricketers in Bareilly. We have also unearthed a racket in human trafficking.
 
 
 
 
 People are taken to Australia and England for club cricket and most of them are left behind. Those operations are still on. One particular racket was in Punjab and the operation is still on. I hope the ACU will continue to follow up on that operation. Human trafficking in cricket is quite rampant.
 
 
 
 
 Whatever advice I had to give, I have given to him.
 
