BENGALURU: A gullible city-based school teacher paid   various amounts totaling Rs 7.2 lakh over five days through online banking before she realized she had been taken for a ride. A cybercrime team from the city’s Central Crime Branch tracked down the culprits and now have them in their custody.

 While online scams and phishing schemes are dime a dozen, Priyadarshini, the teacher and a resident of Basaveshwaranagar, has some hope of getting her money back. The task for the police wasn’t easy given that the culprits operated out of New Delhi. However, in a matter of three months, police managed to nab the thieves. 
 
 Police identified the accused as John Rajan, 27, a bar waiter by profession, Prashant Singh, 22, a salesman, and K Nagaraj, 2, a mason. All three are residents of Delhi. Police say the trio was working on behalf of a Nigerian team of scammers, who open bank accounts in India.
 
 Priyadarshini filed a complaint with the cybercrime police on January 26 this year. In her complaint she said she was informed by an unknown caller on Janaury 16 that a parcel of foreign currency addressed to her was at customs and that she would need to pay Rs 35,000 for customs clearance. Without cross-checking details, Priyadarshini paid up. Over the next four days, the gang got her to part with Rs 6,75,000 using one pretext or another.
 
 Finding the modus operandi similar to many other cases, CCB police formed a team to track down the conmen. They began tracking mobile numbers, bank accounts and other details and soon found that the culprits were operating out of Delhi. The SIM used in Priyadarshini’s case was purchased by Nagaraj, the mason, in his name.
 
 The investigating team, which went to Delhi, tracked Nagaraj down and took him into custody. Based on information he supplied, police nabbed the other two accomplices.
 
 “We traced the IP address and bank account details to New Delhi and zeroed in on the trio,” a police officer said. “We learnt that John was the leader. He was working on behalf of  . Efforts are on to find out how many people this gang cheated.”
 
 Police said the gang studied profiles on social media sites, including  , to find potential victims. “They collected mobile numbers and addresses using the internet,” police said. “They would then contact their targets and get them to part with money using the pretext of a parcel of foreign currency.”
 
 The conmen start with demands of small amounts which grows progressively each time the victim pays up. Police say the three accused are not the main accused in the case of cheating as they acted on directions of Nigerians.
 
 The accused were brought to Bengaluru and their bank accounts — in Ujjivan Bank — have been frozen. Police also seized two mobiles and several SIM cards from the trio. 
 
 
