HYDERABAD: Complete disregard for norms stands out as one of the primary reasons for traffic chaos on city roads, say urban transportation experts and traffic cops. Despite levying heft penalties, they say, traffic violations are on an alarming rise in Hyderabad.

 According to official data, while the number of offences stood at 33.6 lakh during 2016, it shot to 38.8 lakh in 2017. Not surprisingly, the total penalty collected too saw a steep rise. In comparison to 2016, when citizens paid 46.6 crore in penalties (for violations within the Hyderabad traffic limits), the figure was a staggering 57 crore in 2017.
 
 Authorities said among the most common offences that results in slowing down of traffic were obstructive parking, sudden halting on roads and driving on the wrong side. Making matter worse are offences like dangerous driving, overtaking from left, overspeeding, driving without lights in the night, zig zag driving and usage of high-beam. 
 
 Wrong side driving, in fact, has been on a constant rise many areas in the city, they added. 
 
 "The offence has increased over the last few years since we introduced U turns. Many motorists do not want to travel the extra distance before taking the U turn and instead take the wrong side, which creates lot of chaos. This is especially a big problem in   areas though it is prevalent in other parts of Hyderabad too," said A V  , deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Hyderabad. Meanwhile, sudden halting on the carriageway is rampant in case of buses and auto-rickshaws.
 
 While the number of offences continue to grow year on year, the number of citizens who have been at the receiving end of such violations too continue to rise. "Each day when I travel back from   to   so many vehicles resort to zig-zag driving. To top it, buses halt suddenly on the roads resulting in a cascading effect on all other vehicles. Even if the number of vehicles on this route are less sometimes, this kind of driving ensures that it takes up to 35-40 minutes to cross the stretch," complained  , a marketing professional.
 
 Habitual offenders also indulge in obstructive parking, stopping on the carriageway and overspeeding. "Even on a road stretch with less traffic, a few vehicles indulging in overspeeding and dangerous driving can intimidate others to go slow. Moreover, if one such vehicle lands in trouble, which they often do, the entire traffic is bound to be held up. This happens very frequently on the   flyover to Jubilee check-post route," said a commuter,  .
 
 Did you have a bad experience on the road today, or stuck in a jam for long ? And if you live in an area which needs attention? Please write about your experience to traffictoireaders@gmail.com and we will take it up with the authorities.
 
 
