LUDHIANA: A court here on Saturday dismissed pleas of MLA Simarjit Singh Bains and a Delhi-based architect, S K Dey, in which they had requested the court to make them party in the Ludhiana City Center case in which chief minister Captain   is one of the accused. While praying to be made party, the applicants sought reopening of the vigilance case against the CM and other 35 accused. 

 Dismissing the pleas, sessions judge Gurbir Singh has fixed March 9 as the next date of hearing. The detailed copy of the order is yet to be made available. Capt’s counsel   said the court decided the plea in line with the argument that the applicants did not have a locus standi in the case. “Also, the contention that the alleged loss in the project was to the public was rejected by the court,” he said. 
 
 The counsel for Bains, Harkanwal Singh, said he would be challenge the order in Punjab and Haryana high court, after going through the detailed copy of the order, which he was yet to receive. 
 
 Responding to the development, Bains said his party would not let people of Punjab pay the price of “corruption” by the CM and his associates during his previous tenure. “We will soon move Punjab and Haryana high court,” he said. 
 
 On September 16, 2017, Bains of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) filed an application in court, challenging the closure report filed by the vigilance bureau in the case. He pleaded that he be allowed to join investigations, saying a corruption case is an offence against the general public, so he has the right to challenge the closure report. 
 
 On November 3 that year, Dey also moved an application in court, in which he challenged the closure report filed by the vigilance bureau. The bureau had registered the case in 2007, naming Capt Amarinder Singh, son Raninder, and 34 others as accused, but filed a closure report last year. 
 
 In 2007, the bureau had registered the case after allegations of the 36 accused favouring a Delhi-based firm for the City Centre project. Of the 36 accused, four — including the then Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) chairman   and former minister Jagjit Singh — have already died. Captain had announced the project in 2003, during his earlier tenure as the chief minister.
 
 
