BENGALURU: Just days after top ministry of defence (MoD) and army officials held a meeting with the private industry to discuss implementation of the GOCO (Govt Owned Corporate Operated) model at the   (ABWs), employees at these units have begun getting letters seeking information on which other station of the army they are willing to move to. 

 TOI had first reported about the MoD, for the first time, having decided to let private players run ABWs through the   on January 1 this year. Subsequently, it was found that MoD had declared more than 31,000 defence employees as surplus, including those at ABWs. 
 
 However, with no initial enthusiasm from the private players, a meeting was convened in the third week of January. Following this, on January 30, letters were shot off to ABWs asking them to send details of whether surplus employees in the respective units were willing to shift to other stations of the army, and which ones they preferred. TOI has accessed one such letter.
 
 
  
 
 The practice of retrenching employees was done away—so far as defence staff go—in the late 1950s, and all of them are only declared surplus. 
 
 And, when the ABWs and other defence establishments were first conveyed about surplus staff late last year, a communication from the Adjutant General’s Branch TOI had accessed, read: “Rules stipulate that employees who’ve put in longer service will, as far as possible, be offered employment at the same station or near and only junior employees will be posted to farther stations, if vacancies in the same station or nearby stations aren’t available...”
 
 Defence employee unions have criticised the move and termed the government’s policy on privatisation of defence as flawed and against the strategic interests of the country. After multiple letters to all MoD officials, the defence minister and Prime Minister Narendra Modi not having yielded even a meeting, they are planning a massive protest later this month.
 
  
 
 “First they began taking away products from ordnance factories, then they said employees are surplus and the ABW issue is just the first step towards handing over all key assets to private hands. We will not take this lying down,”   (AIDEF) General Secretary C Srikumar said.
 
 He said that a massive protest has been planned between February 8 and 12 in New Delhi, following which protests will be held at all defence establishments until the government talks with them. 
 
 While 2017 was punctuated by hundreds of protests by defence employees, 2018 also started with agitations. Even on Saturday, employees at the Ordnance Clothing Factory Avadi, in Tamil Nadu, held a huge protest outside the establishment. 
 
 
 
