THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:  , which set a model in local governance with the introduction of three-tier system for administration of local bodies, is set to emulate the system in  . 

 The fisheries department has formulated rules as per the  , 2017 and one of the key components will be the constitution of a three-tier system of  , the first of its kind initiative in the country.
 
 Fisheries minister   said introduction of management councils will be a crucial step in regulation of fishing practices and conservation of marine resources. 
 
 "Such a system is being mooted for the first time in the country. There was no proper regulation regarding fishing practices. Uncontrolled fishing led to exploitation of resources. Fisheries management councils are set to play a key role in checking fishing practices and in sustaining our available resources," the minister said.
 
 The three-tier system will have a fishing village management council, a district fisheries management council and the state fisheries management council. Each council will have a specified number of members and will be assigned a set of duties and responsibilities. The state fisheries management council shall be responsible for preparation of marine fisheries management plan for the state and to identify suitable locations for mariculture and conservation activities.
 
 "It is going to be the first participatory model of management in fisheries in the country. There would be 222 village management councils, nine district councils and one state council," said K Sunilkumar Mohamed, head, molluscan fisheries division, CMFRI.
 
 The fishing village management council will prepare village-level marine fisheries management plan considering the local needs and it will create awareness among fisherfolk about responsible fishing and fish resource conservation. The village council will also be responsible for resolving issues and social conflicts among fisherfolk and coastal inhabitants at village level. The rules have been submitted to law department.
 
 
 
