PANAJI: The state government will consider allowing taxi operators to levy a return fare from passengers while making trips to far-flung areas, transport minister   ‘Sudin’   said on Tuesday. 

 Dhavalikar said he has directed the transport department to carry out a detailed survey of the taxi-hiring patterns of Indian as well as foreign tourists visiting Goa. He also said that all future policies related to taxis, including fitting of meters, will be framed based on this document. 
 
 “I held a discussion with the transport director and have asked for a proper study of how many Indian as well as foreign tourists visit Goa, what is the projected increase in these figures, number of taxis operating in the state, and the taxi hiring pattern of tourists. Data of last five to six years will be taken into consideration,” Dhavalikar told TOI.
 
 He said while framing the policies, including installation of meters in taxis, the government would take a sympathetic view of the issues put forth by the taxi operators.
 
 “We understand their problem. When they bring passengers to cities like  , they get return fare. But we know that it is difficult to find passengers on a return trip from areas like Ponda, Sanguem or Canacona. They should charge for the return fare on such routes to be able to make the trip viable. We will take that into consideration,” said Dhavalikar.
 
 He, however, warned that the state would also be stern with taxi operators if there is a breach of trust in the understanding between the taxi operators and the government.
 
 “We work for the benefit of the people. But if we are affected due to them, we will have to act,” said Dhavalikar.
 
 He said that currently the state government is completely focussed on developing its own app to help customers avail of taxi services from local operators.
 
 “I had myself written on the file to restrict Ola and Uber’s entry into Goa. I did it because I trusted the local taxi operators. But I was hurt by the strike. There was not a single taxi on the roads, so I was forced to say we will consider allowing Ola and Uber into Goa,” said Dhavalikar.
 
 
