GURUGRAM: After a delay of almost a year, the   ( ) has managed to get a full-fledged office. 

 The   in Sector 32 (plot 44) is likely to increase efficiency of the newly-formed body, since all this while, its different departments we-re operating out of multiple locations.
 
 The office, located close to Medanta hospital, is spread across three floors covering 15,688 sq ft, along with parking space for approximately 30 vehicles. Earlier, the main office was operating out of a rented residence in Civil Lines. Beginning Monday, around 150 employees, including senior officials, have started attending work at the new office, though, the GMDA signboard is yet to be installed. GMDA will be paying a monthly rent of over Rs 18 lakh to  , the private firm, which owns the building.
 
 For almost a year, the authorities have been looking for office space in locations like Golf Course Road and its extension, Sector 44 or any place within 500m of key intersections near the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, which are also well-served by public transport. However, on four occasions, it was forced to extend the date for bidding to set up its office, as the tender hadn’t received a favourable response, forcing the authorities to raise their proposed rent amount.
 
 In the new office, most of the workforce will sit on the first floor, while senior officials will have offices on the second. CEO V Umashankar will sit on the third floor, in an office with a small meeting room with video conference facility. 
 
 “Now that we’re all under one roof, we should be able to set up a full-fledged office quickly. Earlier, those working on the city bus project were working from a separate office close to the main GMDA office, while those who have joined us from Huda were working from the Huda office in Sector 14. Some of the staff were also placed in the mini secretariat. This new office is also a stop-gap arrangement. We’ll shift to another building in Sector 44 in about a years’ time,” said a senior GMDA official.
 
 
