BENGALURU: The newer IT contracts involving higher levels of automation and New-Age digital components like cloud, analytics and artificial intelligence, often get service providers better prices, but they also come with more stringent liability clauses.

 This is because the work either impacts the front-end operations of clients, and hence the overall business — or they are aligned to delivering specific outcomes. Traditional IT contracts were based on the time-&-material model, under which clients simply paid for the number of hours spent on delivering a project.
 
 A source told TOI that an Indian IT firm faced a rough time negotiating with a client who demanded a 4x increase in liabilities (compared to a traditional contract) in the event the project — which involved cloud migration and complex automation — did not meet the stated outcomes. The matter was escalated to the client company’s CEO and the vendor managed to obtain some reduction.
 
 Rahul Barwe, senior analyst with IT research firm  , says a global consumer goods company’s outsourced robotic process automation (RPA) solution malfunctioned. “It took six months for the base product to be updated and fixed. The company could not recoup the lost opportunity costs from the service provider because such a scenario was not adequately incorporated into the contract terms and conditions,” he says.
 
 Jimit Arora, who leads the US-based Everest Group’s IT services research practice, believes penalty clauses are still evolving. “Fundamentally, this is a buyers’ market right now. Therefore, clients are asking for and getting away with pretty much anything because service providers are hungry for growth,” he says. Vendors are making it simple for clients by demonstrating that risks can be mitigated by contractually agreeing to higher penalties.
 
 Some project managers told TOI that in their conversation with clients, the latter didn’t want to be left with a congregation of automation tools which might not drive the required business impact. Clients are worried they could encounter a situation where the replacement cost of the tool vis-a-vis people would not be balanced over five years. If it is not balanced, then they would have been better off using people.
 
 Asked about liability clauses getting more stringent,   CEO   said it depended on the vendor’s relationship with the client.
 
