RAJKOT: There is some good news for bird lovers of Gujarat. The number of migratory birds visiting the   Bird Sanctuary, about 10km from   city, has nearly doubled since the last bird census in 2012. 

 The forest department had conducted a bird census in the sanctuary spread across 6 hectare in 2017 but found it ‘unsatisfactory’ so it commissioned counting again this year.
 
 Primary estimates of bird census conducted on Saturday last and Sunday reveal that between 80,000 to 1 lakh migratory birds of over 300 species visited the wetland between October 2017 and January 2018. In 2012, the bird count was around 40,000, while last year’s census said that only 27,400 birds of 262 species were found in Khijadiya Bird Sanctuary.
 
 The 16 teams formed for the exercise counted the birds till Saturday evening and resumed work again early morning on Sunday. All the participants stayed at the park for Saturday night. Jamnagar superintendent of police Pradip Sejul had also joined the exercise. Every year, from October to January, thousands of birds visit the sanctuary across the globe. The wetland eco-system of Khijadiya is a wintering ground for migratory waterfowls from Palaearctic region and serves as an important breeding ground for many species of wetland birds as well as an uncommon breeder in India, Great Crested   (Podiceps Cristatus).
 
 There are two fresh water lakes in the sanctuary which are separated from the gulf by a pucca earthen dam. The two lakes are not inter-linked as they are a bit away from each other and as these lakes are adjacent to the   and Sanctuary, the freshwater, marine and estuarine species of micro and macro fauna and flora are found in this region.
 
 Deputy forest officer of   and Sanctuary D M Joshi said, “The final figure will be out by Tuesday evening. But according to our primary reports, this year, nearly 80,000 to 1,00,000 birds of over 300 species visited Khijadiya,” adding, “This year, we had better rains than last year and that was the major reason more birds arrived this season.”
 
 
