BENGALURU : Chief minister   and his challenger   (BSY) are a picture in contrast in their respective core constituencies of Chamundeshwari and Shikaripur.

 
 While BSY filed his nomination accompanied by supporters in Shivamogga, Siddaramaiah finished the formalities in Mysuru with party workers engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation with rival JD(S) activists.
 
 Siddaramaiah is a lone ranger in his constituency, battling a friend-turned-foe in JD(S) candidate GT  . BSY has most of his rivals from past elections now steering his campaign.
 
 Observers find the change over the decade significant. “Though   hopes to win with Siddaramaiah as its face, the CM has a bit of a struggle in his own constituency. That hinders his availability for campaigning elsewhere. On the other hand, BSY is a formidable nominee in Shikaripur, making him free to canvass for   candidates,” says NK Mohanram, a political analyst.
 
 Barring in 1999, BSY has won Shikaripur since 1983. Congress’s Mahalingappa, who defeated BSY in 1999, is now his poll manager. K Shekharappa, BSY’s rival in three elections, is campaigning for him this time. Congress’s HS Shanthaveerappa Gowda, who gave BSY tough fight in 2013, is also on BSY’s side this time. BD Bhookanth, JD(S) candidate in 2013, too has switched to the BSY camp.
 
 The CM meanwhile is having a tough time. Congress seniors V Srinivas Prasad and H Vishwanath, who had backed him to the hilt in the 2006 bypoll from Chamundeshwari have fallen out with him — Prasad is in BJP and fellow Kuruba leader Vishwanath is with JD(S), plotting Siddaramaiah’s defeat. The CM’s camp, however, is undeterred. “Siddaramaiah is a tall leader… Yes, Prasad and Vishwanath have switched sides, but he steered the party to victory in Nanjangud and Gundlupet bypolls recently without them. The netas may not be with him but voters are,” said BS Shivanna, KPCC general secretary and Siddaramaiah’s close confidant.
 
 
 
 A seventh ticket for a nominee from the camp of Ballari Reddy brothers and B Sreeramulu and no mention of party state president BS Yeddyurappa’s confidante MP Shobha Karandlaje in the list released on Monday is being seen as a setback for the former CM. 
 
 
 The party’s fourth list has reinforced the notion that the influence of mining baron G Janardhana Reddy is only growing. Lallesh Reddy, realtor and nephew of the brothers, has been fielded from BTM Layout against home minister R Ramalinga Reddy. 
 
