For 38-year-old S Thanaraj, a visit to study the impact on the lifestyle of Paliyar tribal community due to globalisation in 2006 was a life changing moment. He was impressed by how tribal communities embrace nature and live in forests complementing each other.

 A native of Radhapuram in Tirunelveli, he shifted to Madurai to pursue law. Being a dalit, Thanaraj has witnessed caste discrimination at a very young age. He always stood against it and had the tendency of helping others since childhood. This came true after his formal education, when he turned an activist. The law graduate has worked in various areas like youth empowerment, environment and total prohibition by joining hands with various organisations including CESCI, Ekta Parishad and People’s Education for Action and Liberation.
 
 Thanaraj became an Adivasi activist after he extensively worked with the Paliyars, educating them about the Forest Act which ensures their right over forest land. The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers Act passed in 2006 promises tribal rights over agriculture land which traditional belonged to them, accessing forest produces and right to protect and manage the forest, which had been denied for long.
 
 “I went to educate them, but ended up learning so many things from them. Their life is an exemplary one in conserving forest, which needs to be learnt by all. I have taken these lessons to over 1.5 lakh school and college students so far,” Thanaraj said.
 
 For instance, Adivasis do not kill pregnant animals for meat. When they collect roots, they plant more and they never cut living trees, they only use dead trees. They treat woman equally and encourage widow remarriage. There is no dowry system either, said Thanaraj.
 
 While he worked for Paliyars till 2008, he expanded his horizon and started working for various communities like Kadar in Valparai and Anaimalai, Malasar in Amaravathi, Udumalaipettai and Anaimalai, Muduvan in the interior forests of Theni and Valparai forests and Mahamalasar from Anaimalai and Topslip.
 
 Thanaraj’s has a strategy in empowering the Adivasi community. To create leaders among them, unite them to retrieve their rights over forest and defend themselves from exploitation, he along with the organisations he works for help Adivasis in various areas in the state by getting them housing facility and agricultural land. Only recently, Kadar tribe from 24 villages in and around Valparai in Coimbatore received 10 acres of land after several stages of protest.
 
 Thanaraj has taken part in various national-wide protests carried out to ensure the rights of Adivasis. He has also organised many state-level protests demanding total prohibition. He has also extensively worked in the Tsunami rescue and rehabilitation throughout the TN coast. He also played active role in the protests against Sterlite and Koodankulam nuclear plant.
 
 Thanaraj was lucky to get married to a like-minded person like K M Leelavathi, a daughter of a tribal leader from Coorg, in 2010. An MSW graduate, she too joined him in the work towards helping deprived communities. Recently, he joined the Centre for Justice and People and continues his work towards Adivasi empowerment. 
 
 
