CHENNAI: The   government is planning to either close or merge several schools, citing poor or no enrolment figures, while the Right to Education Act, 2009 emphasises on strengthening of neighbourhood schools. 

 
 Nearly 33 government-funded schools in the state have no students and are to be shut down, a highly-placed source in the school education department told TOI on condition of anonymity. Teachers in these institutions have been deputed to nearby schools depending on the vacancy position. "Besides, nearly 800 schools which have less than 10 students each on their rolls are to be merged with the nearest government-funded school," the source added. 
 
  There was, however, no clarity on what would happen to the school buildings after the merger. At present, the source said, there were plans to convert them into libraries. 
 
 In the last seven years (after   came into effect in Tamil Nadu), more than 3.2 lakh students who should have joined government schools have moved to private matriculation schools. 
 
 
 
 
 The government has systematically destroyed government schools by not providing required facilities, said educationist Prince Gajendra Babu. “No sanitary employee, watchmen or physical education teacher has been appointed at   and the teacher has to teach all five subjects besides maintaining office records and sanitation of the school. How do you expect a parent to allow his/her child to join such a school?” he added.
 
 The Madras high court in July 2012 observed that the RTE Act was diluted since the rules did not specify which school in which a child can claim the right to admission as there were many neighbourhoods had more than one school. The state government neither challenged this nor designated institutions as neighbourhood schools.
 
 In the last seven years (after RTE came into effect in Tamil Nadu), more than 3.2 lakh students who should have joined government schools have moved to private matriculation schools. “The central government in its New Education Policy proposed the concept of composite schools. This move is a clear step towards that,” said a district education officer.
 
 
