In the latest episode of  ,   thinks of a way to let   know that she has helped Veer in swapping the bride. Meanwhile, Om and Shivaay make fun of  . Veer tells Rosie (played by Anika) that he trusts her now as Anika wouldn't have done such a thing ever. He tells her he is keeping an eye on her, so she doesn't tell anything to Shivaay. She nods and goes from there. 

 Tia decides to tell the truth to Shivaay. However, Svetlana stops her from doing so. She reminds her that her husband and son are still in danger and one wrong step of her's would ruin everything. 
 
 Anika goes to Shivaay and tells him that she needs to talk to him. But then Veer joins them. Shivaay and Anika get playful with each other in front of him. Anika asks Shivaay to look at her mehendi once but he doesn't see it properly and leaves. Om comes to them and asks if everything is fine. Anika says yes and goes. 
 
 Shivaay and Om leave to get more flowers to shower on the couple. Anika asks Shivaay to see her mehendi again and he tells her he has seen it, though she isn't convinced. 
 
  
  
 Anika begins to cry as she doesn't know what to do. Just then, the light goes off. Veer quickly goes to   as he doesn't want Shivaay to trick him this time around. He asks Saumya if she is still there. She tells him she is. Veer removes the 'sindoor' from the plate. They see each other's reflection and smile. Light comes back.
 
 They start the pheras. Anika holds Shivaay and asks him not to let this marriage happen. Shivaay tells her they are doing this for Rudra's happiness. Anika gets restless and decides to stop the wedding, no matter what. But before she is able to do anything, the pundit announces that the wedding is complete. This leaves Anika shocked. 
 
 Svetlana enters and declares they have won the game as it is Saumya, her sister, who is the bride. Saumya takes off her dupatta. Svetlana then declares that she has fifty percent of the Oberoi shares and the rest would be her sister's now. They rejoice over their victory but Shivaay tells them he is not going to accept defeat. 
 
