PUNE: The   are soon to become more accessible to the citizens, with the   (PMC) planning to increase the number of river access points to 270. The   aims to increase citizens’ interaction with the rivers and protect the rivers’ fragile ecology.

 As per project designers, the rivers currently have 53 access points. The additional 217 points will be in the form of steps, lower and upper promenades and sloped walkways.
 
 
 “The project aims not only to improve the river and the ecology around it but also its usability. Increasing the number of access points will encourage people to use them on a daily basis. Increased use will not just help in maintaining the rivers, but create awareness about issues that are threatening the rivers. Currently, most of the access points are only used during Ganesh immersion,” said a senior official working on the project.
  
 
 The groundwork for the riverfront development project is expected to start in May. The project is focussed on greenery and does not stress on real estate development, said the designers of the project and civic officials. The detailed project report (DPR) for the project is in the final stages.
 
 “The DPR has finalised the details of the project, including new access points. Once they are built, these access points will be of great help to the citizens. They will be able to use the public spaces developed along the rivers,” said  , the  .
 
 A 44-km stretch of the Mula-Mutha will be developed under this initiative.
 
 Meanwhile, several prominent citizens, who are part of the Save Empress Gardens initiative, have opposed the riverfront development plan branding it anti-environment.
 
 TIMES VIEW: The plan to provide multiple access points to the rivers sounds good. However, Pune Municipal Corporation will have to take utmost care to ensure that these access points are not misused to dump garbage or debris into or along the rivers. The promenade and sloped walkways should not turn into hawkers’ paradise or places where illegal food stalls or structures can be put up. Maintaining cleanliness will also be another challenge. The aim has to be preserving the river ecology first and then the creation of recreation spaces.
 
