Bicholim: The stakes will be high when   municipal council ( ) goes to polls on May 6.

 On eyes will be on Sakhali MLA Pramod Sawant and former SMC chairperson Dharmesh Saglani who have floated their respective panels. Saglani, who himself is a candidate, has cobbled together contestants from all parties to form ‘Together For Sakhali’ that will take on the  . On the other hand, Sawant’s ‘Sakhali Vikas Manch’ will be pitched against Saglani’s group.
 
 SMC will be facing elections for third time in its history. It has been in focus during the last several years for various issues.
 
 It was also in the limelight when the   party, sometime in the year 2000, had demanded that the status of the then Sakhali panchayat be elevated to the level of municipality. This move was opposed by the BJP, and had brought together people from Arvalem and   who were against the proposal. The Congress succeeded in its plan in 2001. However, after a few months, the BJP later got this revoked when it came to power in 2002-2007. 
 
 Pravin Blaggon, was the first BJP-affiliated sarpanch during this period. However, the Congress filed a writ petition in court, with the result going in favour of having a municipality.
 
 After this, an administrator was appointed to oversee the functioning of Sakhali panchayat up to year 2007. The first election of the Sakhali municipality was held in 2008, and since then Sakhali maintained its status of municipality. 
 
 Vijaykumar Verekar, Sunita Verekar, Anand Naik and Riyaz Khan were the four chairpersons between 2008 and 2013. Post this up to 2018, Sakhali was again focus, this time due to sharp differences between Sawant and Saglani, who held the reins during this period.
 
 Development works such as the government college, higher secondary, bus stop, community health centre, multipurpose complex,  , swimming pool and sewage treatment plant have been completed by the municipality. 
 
 A total of 55 candidates are vying for 13 wards of the council. 8,112 voters, including 4,013 males and 4,099 females, will caste their franchise. Canvassing will end on May 5. 
 
 The popular contestants among the list of 55 names are Saglani, Kunda Madkar, Upendra Karpe, Shubhada Sawaikar, Rashmi Desai, Nisha Pokle, Damodar Ghadi, Milind Relekar, Dayanand Boryekar and Vithoba Ghadi. Riyaz Khan has fielded his wife Ansira.
 
 
