GHAZIABAD: A   and his wife, were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly fleecing over Rs 2.4 crore from their friend in lieu of registering a penthouse in his name. According to the complainant, the accused had taken the money for registering their penthouse in   Vista on his name, but in return gave him forged registry papers of the property.

 The accused identified as   (48) and   (43) have been booked under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 506 (criminal intimidation), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the IPC.
 
 The complainant, Satish Kumar (39), a resident of   and a businessman, alleged that in 2014 when expressed his desire to buy some property, Pramod told him that he could buy his penthouse in Shipra Krishna vista. “A deal was subsequently finalized and I signed an agreement deed of the penthouse for Rs 1.3 crore. Besides that, I paid Rs 1.1 crore in cash to the duo. There was a bank loan on the property and Pramod had promised me to clear the dues after taking money from me,” said Kumar.
 
 “After some time when I asked them to get the property registered on my name, Pramod told me that he had paid the bank loan and gave me some documents claiming them to be original registry papers. I had some suspicion so I went to the bank to check the status of the loan. I was shocked to find that the duo had not paid the loan and the documents which were given to me were fake,” he added.
 
 On March 7, 2018, Kumar said he met the Tyagi couple at their home in Vaishali but was threatened with dire consequences if asked for his money. After this incident, Kumar lodged a complaint with the SSP office in this matter, and the case was transferred to   police station for investigation. The FIR against the duo was finally lodged on March 27.
 
 The Tyagi couple denied the allegations and claimed that they had been framed by the complainant with an aim to usurp their property.
 
 
