Nagpur: Censuring a junior lawyer, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court rapped him for making his contentions in a rape case based on a law student’s article that a woman can’t be raped during her menstrual period. While rejecting a criminal appeal filed by Ghatanji agriculturist Dnyaneshwar Telang, Justice Rohit Deo strongly warned his lawyer that he should have been conscious of the fact that an HC hearing isn’t a moot or mock court competition in a law school.  “The counsel submits that a woman can’t be raped during menstrual period. In support, he placed on record an article by a law student who has recently graduated. Relying on an article without making any effort to bring to the HC’s notice, the authorities referred to in the article, doesn’t do justice to the profession of law, nor to the justice dispensation system,” he tersely observed. Observing that menstruation may create some difficulty in collecting forensic medical evidence, the judge said accused’s argument that a menstruating woman can’t be raped “dangerously borders on the absurd”.  “Penning the aforemade observations was indeed a painful duty. But, it was necessary lest the sanctity of the proceedings in court is dented. Also, the stakeholders in justice dispensation system lose confidence in assistance rendered by the officers of court to judges. The submission that menstruating woman can’t be subjected to rape, is noted only for rejection,” the court ruled. It directed Parwa police station in Yavatmal to take the accused into custody and submit a compliance report in HC registry within ten days.  The petitioner had challenged his conviction by Yavatmal Sessions Court on October 9, 2013, under Section 376 and was sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for seven years along with Rs500 fine. The prosecution opposed his plea while relying on 15 years-old survivor’s oral report of July 17, 2012 at Parwa police station that the accused had forced himself on her. While rejecting Telang’s arguments, Deo lauded the survivor for not hesitating to lodge a report against him. “By lodging a report that she was subjected to forcible sexual intercourse, the prosecutrix boldly, and undeterred by the unfortunate and deplorable reality of the non-permissive Indian society of considering rape as a stigma, displayed fortitude and willingness to stoically bear its burden in future life.” He added that offence of rape is established even if slightest penetration is noticed in vulva. “The hymen may or may not be torn. The slightest penetration, with or without discharge of semen, would constitute rape. The pivotal issue which needs consideration is whether the prosecutrix’s testimony is implicitly reliable and confidence inspiring. HC’s conscious is satisfied that her evidence is confidence inspiring and medical evidence corroborates her testimony,” the court held. What HC said? * Penning observations against lawyer was indeed a painful duty * Was necessary lest proceedings’ sanctity is dented * Menstruation may create difficulty in collecting forensic evidence * Rape established, even if slightest penetration in vulva is noticed * Lauds survivor for not hesitating to lodge a report against accused * Directs Parwa cops in Yavatmal to take accused into custody