PUNE: The length of the four baggage conveyor belts in the arrival area of the   airport would be increased following frequent complaints from passengers about having to wait for a long time to get their luggage after landing.

 “While the addition of another baggage conveyor belt in the arrival section is not possible because of the present terminal’s building’s size, an increase in the length of the belts will provide some relief to the passengers because more luggage can be placed on them then. It will be a partial relief until the new terminal building is ready,” an airport official, requesting anonymity, told TOI.
 
 On May 17, two passengers complained that they had to wait for 45 minutes to get their luggage after landing at the airport.
 
 Nilesh Satav, while directing his anger towards an airline, said, “Pathetic service. Passengers are made to wait for 45 minutes to get their luggage.”
 
  
 Another passenger,  , wrote on Twitter, “Very bad situation for claiming check-in baggage from the belts.”
 
 Officials accepted that there were issues related to luggage of flyers after landing. “The slot from 9pm to 3am is very busy with maximum flights arriving and departing from the airport. On certain days, about 20 flights arrive between 9pm and midnight. Almost the same number of aircraft depart between midnight and 3am. With just four belts in place, the situation goes out of hand at times. There are times when the belts have to go through maintenance as well,” another airport official said.
 
 Recalling an incident of a few months ago, aviation expert and analyst   said, “On arrival at Pune on a particular flight, it was announced in flight that we should collect our checked-in baggage from Belt No. 4. Accordingly, I and other passengers waited patiently at Belt No. 4, where some other airline’s baggage delivery was going on for a long time.”
 
 He said, “Later a display was put on Belt No. 3, stating that our flight’s baggage would be delivered there. But that belt was defunct then and the airline staffers had put the display without confirming its serviceability. In all this, the passengers had to suffer.”
 
 Vandekar said, “The allotment of belts for baggage delivery is controlled by   ( ). They are also responsible for ensuring serviceability of the baggage delivery conveyor belts. There is a need for more baggage delivery belts at the city airport,” Vandekar told TOI.
 
 There has been an increase in air traffic as well as flights, but the airport is still struggling with space constraints, a source in the airport told TOI. The situation would remain almost the same till the new terminal building is ready.
 
