HYDERABAD: Daily water supply for 3.8 lakh residents of Malkajgiri and nearby areas seems far-fetched this summer. Owing to delay in the installation of water meters with RFID technology and the authorities clueless on the quantum of water to be supplied, the residents will have to wait for daily water till next summer.

 
 Though the tender process for fixing water meters was completed and a nod to install 40,000 connections was granted, the file is stuck with the municipal administration and urban development department. “Once the government gives the go-ahead, installation of meters can be completed within two months. We will allot the consumer account number (CAN) to each individual consumer. With that, we can assess exact quantity of water to be supplied and issue bills accordingly. Due to delay in clearance of file, we are not able to provide daily water,” a senior water board official told TOI.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Chief general manager, project construction, circle III, P   said they will submit a report on the availability of water and installation of water meters once they get the nod.
 
 Except for two service reservoirs at Geetanagar and Moula Ali, the remaining seven service reservoirs have already been commissioned to provide alternate day supply of water. Work on these two service reservoirs have also been completed and a trial run will be conducted next week.
 
 Malkajgiri area is one of the major   peripheral circles. No wonder, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) has taken up various works, including laying of water supply trunk mains and water supply distribution network, to tide over the problem of erratic supply in the areas for over two decades.
 
 “Based on the World Bank grant, the daily water supply scheme was taken up to install 40,000 connections in various areas in Malkajgiri. Apart from Sainikpuri, Vajpayeenagar, Gowtham Nagar and Tirumal Nagar, two master balancing reservoirs at   and Gowtham Nagar will come in handy for consumers,” awater board official said.
 
 The united   government had proposed a comprehensive water supply scheme for Malkajgiri with World Bank aid of ?338 crore. But the scheme took six years to be completed owing to land acquisition hurdles and delay from the railways to permit laying of water lines.
 
