GURUGRAM: At least 66 government employees have come under the scanner of CBI, which is investigating an alleged scam related to acquisition of 1,400 acres in sectors 58-66 during the tenure of former chief minister Bhupinder Singh  .

 The employees — who were posted in the DTCP’s planning wing in Gurugram between 2007 and 2013 — have been asked to submit details of properties/assets owned by them as well as their family members and relatives.
 
 In an email that reached the   on Friday, the agency asked the employees — right from the group-D level to the rank of district town planner — to provide details of their family members, including spouse, siblings, parents, children and extended family members. The employees were told to provide details of their movable and immovable properties, income tax returns filed between 2007 and 2013, bank account details, Aadhaar and PAN card numbers. Also, they would have to mention their educational qualifications, places of postings in DTCP and other government departments. Besides, the agency instructed them to reveal if they had any share in any private company, etc.
 
 “The CBI has provided a pro forma that needs to be filled by the employees, providing all the details. A CBI official is likely to visit the DTCP office by Monday to collect the details,” a DTCP official said.
 
 Sources said some the 66 employees might have been transferred to other departments or DTCP offices elsewhere in the state. But they would also have to submit the details to the CBI.
 
 On Wednesday, a four-member CBI team visited the DTCP office in Sector 14 and collected ‘documentary evidence’ in connection with the 1,400-acre land scam that had affected thousands of villagers in sectors 58-66.
 
 After spending around four hours scanning files in the DTCP’s planning wing, the team gathered evidence against three builders who were allegedly favoured in land allotment as well as officials who had issued notices for land acquisition. Also, the sleuths collected attendance registers of the period between 2008 and 2012 for all the employees, who were posted in Gurugram that time. The agency also gathered documents regarding licences granted during that period for those specific sectors.
 
 The matter dates back to 2009 when the Bhupinder Singh Hooda government had issued notification for acquiring around 1,400 acres in eight   around Gurugram.
 
 The eight villages are Nangli Umarpur, Tigra, Ulhawas, Kadarpur, Medawas, Badshapur, Behrampur and Ghatta. The plan was to develop residential sectors 58 to 63 and residential-commercial sectors 65 to 67 as shown in development plan under Haryana Urban Development Authority Act.
 
 
