PATNA: Haphazardly parked vehicles on busy roads have become a major problem for motorists in the city, especially after suspension of services of private jambusters following charges of irregularities. These vehicles eat into the carriageway, causing traffic jams across the city. The authorities concerned have so far not come up with a concrete plan to introduce new vehicular parking system in the city. 

 The services of private jambusters, which were being used to tow away vehicles parked in no-parking zones, were suspended in January. A senior   (PMC) official said the new parking slots would be created after the completion of the ongoing anti-encroachment drives in the city.
 
 With the increase in number of vehicles, parking problems are compounding by the day in the city. Even colony roads, basements and open parking areas in buildings now remain clogged with vehicles.
 
 According to a study conducted in March by   and  , professor and assistant professor, respectively, at the department of civil engineering, NIT-Patna, the city is facing a major problem due to lack of parking lots. The study suggests that in localities like Kankerbagh, Gandhi Maidan auto stand, Boring Canal Road, Rajabazaar, Ashok Rajpath,   Junction and Fraser Road, the existing parking spaces are not sufficient to meet the demand.
 
 “In a city like Patna where parking spaces are not adequate, it is difficult to check unauthorised parking. The PMC should identify new parking spaces,” Sinha said, adding once encroachments are removed from the city roads, the problem of traffic congestion will ease.
 
 SP (traffic) P N Mishra said in growing cities like Patna, the parking problem requires creative solution. “We are trying our best to set up more parking lots in the city to ease traffic,” he added.
 
 Seema Verma, a local, said even though commercial complexes have increased parking fee, people are ready to pay additional amount to park their vehicles safely. “The problem, however, is that even commercial complexes face problems in accommodating vehicles during peak hours,” she added. 
 
 
