New Delhi: Two officers of the Delhi Police have been   on Sunday after one of them opened fire during a brawl at a   ceremony and injured two people in northeast Delhi’s Khajuri Khaas on Saturday night.

 Police said that the incident happened in BR Vatika in Khajuri Khaas. The accused   have been identified as constable Naeem and assistant sub-inspector Intekhab Alam. Both are posted in the south-western range of the special cell.
 
 A preliminary probe has revealed that the duo had gone to attend the wedding of their colleague Mahavir Gupta, who is currently posted with the northeast district police. During the wedding, Gupta noticed a man clicking photographs of his wife which agitated him.
 
 He allegedly told Naeem and Alam to tell the man not to click the photographs. The accused started arguing with the man, identified as Manoj (28). The argument snowballed after Manoj allegedly slapped Naeem. Suddenly, Naeem took Alam’s service revolver and fired three rounds.
 
 Manjeet Kumar, the manager of the party lawn where the incident happened, said that he heard the sound of the bullets, and found Manoj and a woman injured. “The public later snatched the pistol from Naeem, and thrashed them both before handing them over to the cops,” Kumar said, claiming that the two men were drunk at the time.
 
 Manoj and the injured woman, Pooja (23), were taken to a nearby hospital and are now out of danger following treatment.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Ajit Singla said that constable Naeem and ASI Alam have been arrested under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. Both of them have been dismissed from service under article 311 (b) of the Delhi Police Act.
 
 ASI Alam had initially told investigating officers that Naeem had snatched his revolver but it was later found that he readily gave his weapon to his colleague. He also dialled 100 after the incident and told cops that his weapon was snatched to mislead the investigation. 
 
 Cops are also going through the video footage of the wedding to ascertain more information about the incident and are questioning the accused. Other eyewitnesses are also being quizzed to ascertain the exact sequence of event that led to the firing.
 
 
