HYDERABAD: Days after the   government issued an order regarding the introduction of Telugu as a compulsory subject, up to intermediate level, from 2018-19 academic year, schools affiliated to CBSE, ICSE, IB boards in the city continue to be clueless about its implementation.

 
 On May 1, the school education department issued an order (GO No: 21) stating that the Telangana (Compulsory Teaching and Learning of Telugu in Schools) Act, 2018, will come into force from April 2. While the state government entrusted the responsibility of preparing the textbooks to a committee consisting of officials from the Potti Sriramulu Telugu University and  , school managements claim that they have little idea about how this rule will be rolled out. Worse, they are yet to receive an official communication from the education department.
 
 “So far, we have not received any communication about it. Hence, we have not taken any decision at the group level regarding it’s implementation,” admitted KV Arjun, principal of Oakridge International.
 
 Reiterating their fears, managements said they are particularly worried about how   students will cope with the new rule.
 
 “While next academic session is set to begin from June, we have no clarity about how government will implement Telugu as a mandatory subject. No comprehensive plan has been shared with the school managements, particularly pertaining to non-Telugu speaking students,” said S  , president,  .
 
 According to sources, a government-constituted committee is in the process of compiling two different Telugu textbooks — one for regular Telugu students and one for those who will start studying the subject from this year at the elementary, upper primary and high school levels. There is no official confirmation on the same, though.
 
 “We are still at the discussion stage wherein the content for the textbooks are being deliberated upon. We intend to conclude the discussions and finalise the curriculum by mid-May. Subsequently, the textbooks will be sent for printing and the distribution will begin,” said  , member of the committee and chairman of the Telangana Sahitya Akademi.
 
