PANAJI: The government has commenced work on a number of infrastructure projects across the state, promising to change the face of the state by 2020. Chief minister Manohar Parrikar thanked Union minister for highways Nitin Gadkari for sanctioning nearly Rs 10,000 crore for projects like the new   and four- and six-laning of highways across Goa. But, while these projects are moving at a decent pace, older ones are watching deadlines fly by.

 For instance, one is yet to hear about the commissioning of the long-promised 27 MLD water treatment plant at a cost of Rs 72 crore to enhance water supply to Panaji. This March will see the deadline expire. Similarly, the public works department’s (PWD) plans to treat and supply 10 million litres daily (MLD) from the Maisal dam have been marred by a project delay. It was to be completed in June last year. 
 
 With work on other water-related projects in Tuem, Ganjem, etc still stuck, the dream of 24x7 water supply in Goa remains just that for now. 
 
 Another project that failed to meet its deadline is the Rs 125 crore Ribandar bypass, which was announced as a model corridor. It was supposed to be ready by December last year. Also in the same boat are the Rs 280 crore bridges over the Galgibaga and   rivers, both of which are struggling to cross the finish line. 
 
 Meanwhile, the third Mandovi bridge, said to be 78% complete at the moment, is trying to meet its third deadline. 
 
 It’s a different story for work funded by the central government. Construction work on the new Zuari bridge is on in full swing, and the four-laning of the highway from   to   is ready to be tendered. Work on the missing link on NH-4A and the Dhavali bypass is also moving ahead.
 
 An important project completed in the past year is the Mala bridge, which allows citizens of Mala and   to travel to the Panaji bus terminus without having to deal with traffic congestion. Much to the delight of locals, the bridge, which was initially one-way, has now been opened up for traffic in both directions.
 
 Another bridge that was inaugurated this year was the   bridge. Meanwhile, work has begun on the grade separator in Dabolim.
 
 
