NEW DELHI: In the first full-fledged hearing on the appeal filed by  , the   on Wednesday indicated their argument of “no oral hearing granted” by the   (EC) won’t cut much ice.

 “In India we have gone too far on this oral hearing insistence. Abroad everywhere one goes by written pleadings. Were there any points raised on which you were not given a hearing? Give us a list, we will examine,” a bench of Justices Sanjiv Khanna and Chander Shekhar remarked during the hearing.
 
 The court’s observation came when senior advocate   argued that in a case where people’s representatives stand to lose their membership, the EC should have granted a personal hearing.
 
 But the bench remained sceptical, pointing out that the EC order appeared to be a “well reasoned” and an “elaborate” one. “Just give us a list of points not answered. Hearing or no oral hearing is not going to make much difference in your case,” the bench said, adding that it has studied the EC order.
 
 Parasaran, a former solicitor general, contended that the disqualification notification is a “gross violation of natural justice because EC decided the matter in undue haste and without affording and giving any opportunity of fair hearing to the petitioners.” 
 
 He maintained that the former lawmakers were not given a fair opportunity to air their grievances before the poll panel and underlined that Sunil Arora, one of the election commissioners appointed after the retirement of Syed Nasim Ahmad Zaidi, never had any occasion to deal with the matter or to understand the facts of the case.
 
 He also cited SC rulings to question how election commissioner OP Rawat, once he had recused himself from hearing the matter “to instil confidence in the AAP MLAs” later joined at the time of the final order disqualifying the 20 AAP MLAs for holding offices of profit as parliamentary secretaries.
 
 The petitioners submitted that the poll panel sent its opinion to President Ram Nath Kovind “flouting the principles of natural justice”, which requires “a fair opportunity of defence”. So far, 12 AAP MLAs have challenged their disqualification.
 
 The high court had on January 24, refused to stay the Centre’s notification disqualifying the MLAs, but restrained the commission from taking any “precipitate measures” such as announcing dates for bypolls to fill the vacancies. The EC recommended the disqualification of 20 AAP MLAs on January 19 and the President endorsed it the next day, prompting the disqualified lawmakers to file writs in HC last month.
 
 On its part the poll panel has maintained the petitions are “misdirected” and not maintainable as the petitioners have not challenged the presidential order dated January 20, 2018 disqualifying them.
 
 Following the poll panel’s recommendation to the President, the law and justice ministry issued a notification that the Kovind had “okayed” the disqualification of 20 Delhi AAP MLAs.
 
 
