MYSURU: The government project to replace underground drain (UGD) pipes is costing citizens dear, since they are being asked to shell out money to get their houses connected to the UGD network afresh. However, officials of the   ( ) have remained silent over the issue.

 Each household with a UGD connection is shelling out nearly Rs 1,000 for a new connection. While the six-foot long pipe with a connecting bend and collar costs around Rs 700, residents have to pay an additional Rs 200 to Rs 250 to the workers to get it installed.
 
 The government project, meant to solve the UGD problem, has only served to add to the residents’ expenses.
 
 Interestingly, neither MCC officials nor the contractor overseeing the project had intimated the residents about the project. It was only after trenches were dug, and the existing UGD connections were severed were the details of the government project revealed to the residents, who were subsequently asked to make their own arrangements as far as getting the pipes, and paying the labourers was concerned.
 
 When residents of Gayathripuram II Stage in Ward 59 complained that being told to shell out money in the eleventh hour for UGD connections, the contractor Marigowda told them that their contract with MCC mentioned nothing about connecting individual homes with the main UGD line.
 
 “Residents have to get their homes connected to the UGD network on their own, or pay workers involved in government projects to get the work completed. Our contract is only for laying the main pipes,” Marigowda told the residents, who find it incredulous that MCC has gone ahead with such a project without informing them about it.
 
 MCC is replacing the existing  , which have a diameter of four inches, with six-inch diameter ones to overcome problems of blockage in some parts of the city. The project is being extended to the whole of Mysuru city in a phased manner.
 
 MCC’s executive engineer for UGDs Jadhav said, “The   are being laid in the city under a government scheme across Mysuru. But the people have to make their own arrangements to get their homes connected.”
 
 Another MCC official admitted that the public had not been intimated that they themselves have to make arrangement to attach household connection to new UGD line.
 
 
