Indian Institute of Technology Madras will help indigenise and improve air navigation systems under an MoU it signed with the   ( ) on Wednesday.

 The institute and AAI will, as part of the agreement, conduct joint research to specifically address aviation infrastructure through domestic manufacture of navigation equipment and meet air traffic management challenges at airports in the country.
 
 Ravindra Gettu, dean, Industrial Consultancy and Sponsored Research (IC&SR), IIT Madras, and A K Dutta, member, Air Navigation Services (ANS), AAI, signed the MoU.
 
 The agreement will involve transfer of knowledge by IIT Madras in areas such as mathematical, analytical and data mining solutions as well as artificial intelligence, which are essential to research. It will also open up many areas in aviation to startups and industries to manufacture products under the Make in India policy. IIT researchers will have access to AAI aviation data.
 
 As part of its ambitious ANS upgrade plans and the need to develop in-house capabilities with an efficient R&D system that supports ongoing indigenous initiatives, AAI has established a state-of-theart Civil Aviation Research Organisation in Hyderabad. Collaboration with premier educational institutions is one of the elements that AAI envisages in R&D.
 
 AAI manages 125 airports and provides ANS across 2.8 million square nautical miles of air space. It has been taking up ANS and airport infrastructure modernisation plans to keep pace with an exponential growth in air traffic.
 
 “IIT Madras is eager to partner with AAI to bring in innovation in airport and navigation management to address challenges in India’s aviation sector,” IIT Madras director Bhaskar Ramamurthi said.
 
 Ravindra Gettu said the MoU would provide synergy of capabilities of both the organisations in their respective domains, paving the way for mutually beneficial and lasting solutions. “This MoU is also expected to facilitate access to crucial data relating to air traffic for researchers of IIT Madras,” he said.
 
 Noting that AAI manages around 130 airports and is the sole service provider of ANS, AAI chairman Guruprasad Mohapatra said, “It is high time that we focused on developing excellence in these fields through innovation and adoption of technologies to provide enhanced efficiencies and safe passenger and aircraft movement.”
 
 Through the MoU, IIT Madras’ IC&SR, which plays a vital role in bringing together faculty members and experts from the industry, will collaborate with AAI to embark on joint research programmes that experts expect will benefit aviation systems and technology as a whole.
 
 The AAI has made earlier attempts to encourage in-house experts to indigenise air navigation systems because it currently buys expensive equipment from abroad.
 
 
