KOLKATA: The Unit Area Assessment (UAA) system of property tax scheme will be introduced and implemented in   from April 2. “UAA system of property tax collection will be effective in New Town from the new financial year of 2018-19. 

 As April 1 is a Sunday, the system will be implemented from Monday,” said an official of  .
 
 
  
 
 Officials said the entire tax collection could be done online and citizens would be able to calculate their tax and pay from home. There would also be an offline system, whereby a challan can be generated and payment made at banks.
 
  is engaging trained staffers, ‘Tax Sathis’, to help citizens calculate and pay their property tax. Payers would be
 
 able to contact with the ‘Tax Sathis’ through the NKDA website. Further, there will be e-help kiosks at the NKDA offices in Action Area 1and Action Area II and also a helpline during office hours.
 
 Officials said tax payers would require their sanctioned building plan, land deed, identity documents, bank   code, account number, PAN, Aadhaar (if any) and other KYC documents during interactions with ‘Tax Sathis’ so that they could be easily guided.
 
 Besides, there would be a provision of 5% rebate on timely payment of property tax for each quarter and an additional rebate of 5% on payment of property tax for the entire year within the due date of first quarter.
 
 NKDA officials said New Town has been divided into seven zones for calculation of unit area tax. Each zone has been assigned with a basic valuation per unit area. The highest Base Unit Area Values (BUAV) is for properties falling under the central business district and the lowest rates are for refugee rehabilitation plots.
 
 The other parameters considered for the calculation include, a building’s age, proximity to roads, nature (concrete, semi-concerete, kuchha) and use of the property (residential, commercial, government or government undertakings). Then multiplication factors are applied (self occupied or rented and location). Then the tax payable can be calculated.
 
 
