NAGPUR: The arrest of five goons on Sunday by Sitabuldi police, for their involvement in a clash with rivals at Sanjay Nagar on January 26, has brought Ambazari cops under the scanner. The Ambazari police had chosen to ignore the clash, but Sitabuldi cops arrested the goons with arms.

 Akshay Jaipure, wanted by Ambazari police for preparation of dacoity, had sustained deep slash injuries when he intervened in a fight with rivals looking to eliminate Rahul Naidu. The attackers had snatched Jaipure’s weapon to inflict the wound on him. Jaipure had, however, managed to flee Sanjay Nagar before Ambazari police reached the place. As per a reliable source, a constable is learnt to have alerted one Gupta to rush to the spot and ensure Jaipure was not eliminated, since he is wanted in their case.
 
 Local residents of Sanjay Nagar had told Ambazari police they saw ‘Mauser’ firearms and sharp weapons in the possession of the goons. Despite this, Ambazari police had taken the matter lightly.
 
 In another incident in January first week, former murder accused   was attacked by his rivals at  , and sustained fractures. Ambazari police had also taken Sultan, who is learnt to be a narcotics peddler, to hospital for medical examination. He had also convinced the cops not to register an offence. TOI was also told by a Sanjay Nagar resident that Sultan’s father Hanif is associated with bootlegging.
 
 While Ambazari police opted to tread softly on the gang rivalry, Sitabuldi police picked up Jaipure, Naidu and Sultan along with Raj Kanojia and Shubham Baghel. Another goon, Chidiya, named in a case of gang rape, too was part of the rivalry.
 
 Sources from Sanjay Nagar said on condition of anonymity there is a gang war going on between the groups, who had murdered Baggi Bawa and Khushal Kuhike, since the accused in both cases have walked out of jail on bail.
 
 TOI has come across several other instances of police-criminal nexus in and around sensitive localities like Pandhrabodi, Ram Nagar, Ambazari Vasti, Sanjay Nagar and adjoining places. One bootlegger, identified as Sadhana, is learnt to be operating a liquor den at Pandhrabodi. Another woman bootlegger, Bharti, is operating her den at Trust Layout. Apart from liquor, she is also selling narcotics.
 
 Sanjay alias Bhukka is operating a gambling den at Sanjay Nagar. Bhukka’s kin Aapil, former trusted aide of now externed  , is also operating his anti-social activities of selling liquor and gambling near Pandhrabodi police chowky.
 
 Jt CP Shivaji Bodkhe said he would look into the allegations of Ambazari police ignoring the clash on January 26, when at least two murders were averted due to public’s intervention and alertness.
 
 
