HYDERABAD:The   (NCLT) at Hyderabad has initiated corporate insolvency resolution process (CIRP) against city-based hospitality player   Limited and appointed KK Rao as interim resolution professional (IRP) for the purpose.

 This was in response to a petition filed by asset reconstruction player — Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Ltd (ARCIL) — against the Prabhakar Reddypromoted Viceroy Hotels, which borrowed ?321 crore from lenders like Axis Bank, IDFC, Laxmi Vilas Bank, SBI and   from 2007 to 2011.
 
 These loans were later acquired by ARCIL, which negotiated with Viceroy Hotels for recovery of dues. On failing to recover the dues, ARCIL filed a plea under Section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code-2016 against Viceroy Hotels and is now claiming an amount of ?525 crore along with interest from the hospitality company.
 
 
 Contesting the insolvency plea, Viceroy Hotels argued before the tribunal that it is still solvent and sought more time. Disputing the outstanding dues cited by ARCIL and as “bloated”, the counsel for Viceroy Hotels urged the tribunal to not declare Viceroy Hotels insolvent. He also said a portion of the loans taken by Viceroy Hotels was being repaid directly by   group, which has been operating Marriott Hotel out of the Viceroy Hotel building on a management contract basis.
 
 
 Viceroy Hotels owns the 297-room Marriott Convention Centre and 120-room Courtyard By Marriott, while its subsidiary runs Minerva Hotels as well as BlueFox and   chain of restaurants. However, ARCIL opposed the hotel’s plea stating that it approached the tribunal only after all its efforts to recover dues failed.
 
 
 NCLT judicial member Vitanala Rajeswara Rao, while admitting ARCIL’s plea, said in his order that the facts and circumstances of the case clearly indicate that initiating CIRP is the only solution permissible under the provisions of the IBC.
 
 
 He directed the IRP to hold a committee of creditors meet and come out with a resolution plan. The judge also declared a 180-day moratorium that brings to a halt all other legal proceedings against the company pending before various legal forums all over the country. Viceroy Hotels now cannot sell or transfer any of its assets.
 
 
 The NCLT has directed the promoters of Viceroy Hotels to assist the IRP and furnish all the required documents to him. The case has been posted to April 16 by which date the IRP will have to submit a report to the tribunal.
 
