JOHANNESBURG: On a pitch that has suited quality pace bowling better than any in this series, one that made scoring of runs excruciatingly difficult, India's attack proved to be as good as any on Thursday.

 
 
 Critics will remind you how   - otherwise a much useful exponent of the ball - has been struggling for the better part of this tour, and how the pacy   would have been the ideal choice for Wanderers. Yet, India's effort hasn't been a bad one at all.
 
 
 
 Having won the toss, India had taken the call to bat first keeping conditions in mind they thought would become more erratic and tough for batsmen on Day Two and Three. Day Two proved India right, except that South Africa managed to squeeze out a lead of seven runs.
 
 Every run scored on this wicket is going to matter, just like every ball played and every ball left. The demons that typify this Wanderers surface won't be kind to batsmen walking in at any time.
 
 There's a metre-long crack just short of a good-length area on the wicket, one that became visible when  's back-of-a-length delivery deviated to  's rib cage. Beneath the grass lie more such fissures waiting to show up as the game progresses. The  , no doubt, will be keen to watch this entire Test.
 
 On Day Two, when it mattered for India's five-man pace attack to pull up their socks, roll up their sleeves and have a go, they made sessions count. Leading the way was an exceptional  .
 
 Kumar's wicket of   first cracked open the South African middle order. It was swing of extreme proportion, whizzing in from far outside the off-stump to shatter the batsman's middle stump. The delivery is a good contender for ball of the series.
 
 It was Kumar who did the day's first damage after nightwatchman Kagiso Rabada had left India frustrated in the first hour of the day. India would lift themselves again, thanks to Kumar's persistence,  's impressive support at the other end and Ishant Sharma's workmanlike approach.
 
 Kumar and Bumrah together bowled 37.5 overs, whipping up swing and pace in sustained measure to keep the hosts on tenterhooks. Five wickets for Bumrah and three for Kumar was the day's haul. Bumrah walked away with the prized wicket of Hashim Amla as a trophy. 
 
