CHENNAI: With the overall female ratio across IITs hovering between 8% and 9% over the years, the premier institutes this year earmarked 14% supernumerary   for girls. But despite these encouraging attempts, many women may still be turning away from   gates as fewer girls are opting to take up   after Class XII, say schools. This is due to a dip in interest among girls towards  , they observed.

  
  
 
 This was reflected in the number of registrations for the Joint Engineering Examination ( ) test held over the last two weekends where 6.46 lakh boys and 2.66 lakh girls wrote the test. The test is the gateway into IITs, NITs and centrally funded technical institutions. 
 
 Of the 8,000 odd students in the IIT-M campus, about 2,000 are women with 15% women at UG level. In II-M zone, only 12.9% of the total qualifiers to the advanced round were women in 2016. Of the 651 final qualifiers from Tamil Nadu, only 84 of them were women. This trend of low registrations continued in 2017 as well. 
 
 Schools say interest in engineering has dipped among girls compared to medicine which continues to be a popular option. Shobha Raman, principal of Vidya Mandir (CBSE) said: “Among 110   students that we sent out, only 25 to 30 girls showed enthusiasm towards engineering. The number has been dipping over the last 4 to 5 years. While many girls take up medicine, another good chunk of science students pursue  ,” she said.
 
 Coaching centres like FIITJEE had earlier reported that approximately 90% of enrolments in their centre are boys. 
 
 A maths teacher of DAV school (state board) said that after   system was replaced by Samacheer Kalvi, there has been a dip in standards and many students do not show the competitive spirit required for JEE. “The system is such that everything has been by the textbook and thankfully, this year, they have brought in changes in the curriculum. Hopefully, we will see more girls opting for competitive tests in the future due to this,” she said.
 
 Educationist Jayaprakash Gandhi also says that a push from the schools to encourage girl students is lacking. “There is a mushrooming of NEET coaching but not for JEE, as girls are not that keen. While NEET is now compulsory, students have the Anna university counselling as an easier option to engineering. In districts, parents also are not willing to spend so much money on JEE coaching for girls,” he said.
 
 Deepthi, a student, said that many are more open to explore other fields and not just engineering. “Earlier our parents too were hesitant. But today there is more acceptance for girls branching out,” she said.
 
 
