LUDHIANA: It has been 10 days when she was attacked with acid in her house, but the 15-year-old survivor still wakes up in the middle of the night dreaming about the terrifying incident.

 Though the stalker who had carried out the attack has been arrested and sent to judicial custody, the minor girl, undergoing treatment in a private hospital, fears that the accused might attack her once again.
 
 The   is demanding   for the accused (who is her relative), or a chance to do the same with him. The girl is so scared that she does not even want to continue her schooling.
 
 In the wee hours of March 27, Manoj Kumar (21), a resident of Barewal, scaled the wall of the girl’s house and poured acid on the teenager when she was sleeping with her mother in a room.
 
 Manoj had been harassing the girl for the past one year, and had also asked her to marry him. The accused would often tease her on the way to school. When the girl shared this with her family, they talked to Manoj’s parents, but Manoj did not listen to them.
 
 On March 27 evening, the mother of Manoj asked the girl if she wanted to marry her son, but the girl said no. He attacked her with acid a few hours later that day.
 
 Talking to TOI, the girl said, “The incident is a nightmare for me. When I sleep at night, I feel he will come again and attack me with acid. There is so much anger in me that even I want to do the same with him, because only then will he come to know the pain I am going through. Otherwise, I want life imprisonment for him. I want to see him behind bars till he dies,” said the girl with tears in her eyes.
 
 The girl’s mother said, “My daughter is really afraid. She often wakes up at night out of fear.”
 
 The teenager shared she wanted to learn stitching and start a stitching centre for girls.
 
 The   police had lodged an FIR under sections 354-D (stalking), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the IPC against the accused, who is now in judicial custody.
 
 
