THALASSERY: Chief minister   Vijayan said there should be a mass movement to protect science, wage a battle against superstitious beliefs and rituals and also remind 'those in power' about scientific temper, when they propagate pseudo-science. Inaugurating the 30th Kerala   at the Government Brennen College campus here on Sunday, he also said that Article 51A of the Constitution of India has clearly said this and spreading pseudo-science is against our Constitution.

 "Article 51A says that promoting scientific temper is a citizen's fundamental duty and it gives us the right to fight against superstitions and make people aware of it," he said.
 
 "We have to open a new battlefront to safeguard science against attempts to spread superstitious and beliefs that are not scientific," he said, adding that the scientific community also should keep this in mind. The statement comes at a time when Union minister of state for human resource development Satyapal Singh rubbished  's theory of evolution, and also the central government is accused of promoting pseudo-science.
 
 Further, many communicable diseases that were thought to have been eradicated are coming back and also many viruses that were unheard of in the past are causing panic in the world, said the chief minister, who urged the scientists to study such diseases and fight them. The focus theme of this year's science congress, 'Viruses and infectious diseases', is an indication that the scientific community is prepared to make such an intervention, he said.
 
 Though Kerala is much ahead of other states when it comes to healthcare, we should also take it seriously that some contagious diseases are causing tension and the hope is that we could contain this through proper sanitation and scientific methods, he said. He also said that a new virology research centre of international standards will start functioning in the state in the near future, under the aegis of Kerala State Council for Science Technology and Environment.
 
 Vijayan also presented various awards such as young scientist   medals, Dr S Vasudev Award, science literature awards, and KSCSTE-SGRF SPARK Award. In the three-day event, papers and posters will be presented.
 
 
