AURANGABAD: The city has earned the dubious distinction of spending very little amount of funds sanctioned towards the Smart Cities Mission. 

 Of the Rs 196 crore released to each of around 40 cities under the mission, Aurangabad could spend only Rs 85 lakh. It has fared better than Andaman and   (Rs 54 lakh) and Ranchi (Rs 35 lakh), civic authorities said quoting data released by the ministry of housing and urban poverty alleviation.
 
 As the money released during the first year of implementation of the Smart Cities ission is still unutilised on the part of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation ( ) through its Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), doubts have been raised over disbursement of next instalment of Rs 100 crore every year for the next three years.
 
 As per laid down norms, timely submission of the city score card every quarter to the Centre and satisfactory physical and financial progress as shown in the utilization certificate are some of the prerequisites for subsequent release of funds. 
 
 When contacted, Aurangabad municipal commissioner   said tenders for works worth Rs 148 crore as a part of first phase of pan-city project would be floated in next couple of days. 
 
 "We needed time to prepare the detailed project report for every component of the pan-city project, having financial outlay of Rs 342 crore. As necessary homework is ready, we would ensure swift implementation of the projects," he said.
 
 Solar roof-top systems, smart bus-stops, installation of 2,000 CCTVs, Wi-Fi facility and digital signage systems are some of the major works that would be carried out using the Rs 148 crore, it was said. 
 
 The civic chief also said that project for urban transportation having allocation of Rs 90 crore is also ready for roll-out. "We have already received permission to purchase 32 of the total 150 buses to have effective public transportation," Muglikar said.
 
 When asked about other cities racing ahead in the matter of fund utilisation, the civic chief said some of the better performing cities found place in the Smart Cities Mission during the first round of selection. Aurangabad had found a place the mission in second list of 27 cities announced during second half of 2015. 
 
 New mentor of Aurangabad for the mission and IAS officer Sunil Porwal, along with recently-elected mayor  , on November 30 held necessary review meeting after a long gap, giving push to some of the pending proposals.
 
 Among other 40 cities having received Rs 196 crore under the Central scheme, Ahmedabad has spent the maximum amount of Rs 80.15 crore, followed by Indore (Rs 70.69 crore), Surat (Rs 43.41 crore) and   (Rs 42.86 crore).
 
 Among cities which got around Rs 111 crore each under the Smart Cities Mission, Vodadara has spent Rs 20.62 crore, followed by   in Sikkim (Rs 6.80 crore), Salem (Rs 5 lakh),   (Rs 6 lakh) and Thanjavur (Rs 19 lakh). 
 
 Authorities said a total of 90 cities have so far been selected by the government under the Central mission. Each city is entitled to receive Rs 500 crore as central assistance for implementing various projects.
 
 
