MUMBAI: The cricket committee of the   ( ), led by former India captain Anil Kumble, is of the view that the ‘toss’ should remain an integral part of Test cricket and should not be done away with. Whether or not to do away with the   in Tests - amid views that it should be automatically awarded to the visiting team – remained among the many subjects that the ICC’s cricket committee discussed in its two-day meeting in Mumbai.

 
 
 
 Former India captains   and Bishan Singh Bedi had argued against the idea of doing away with the toss after taking multiple aspects into consideration — the thrill associated with the flip of the coin, the history associated with it and the fact that it remains a basic tool to challenge a visiting team.
 
 
 
 The idea to do away with the toss was based on the logic that it would help reduce doctoring of pitches and produce more evenly-contested Tests. Now that the cricket committee has decided to leave the toss alone, it has urged “(ICC) members to continue to focus on the delivery of pitches that provide a better balance between bat and ball in line with ICC regulations”.
 
 At no point has the ICC considered the idea of neutral pitch curators – similar to neutral umpires and match referees – that could help resolve the issue even as the governing body acknowledges that preparation of Test match pitches could provide a risk to the competitiveness of the (upcoming) World Test Championship.
 
 The debate on the ‘toss’ having been settled, the cricket committee then went on to discuss the importance of the ‘spirit of cricket’ and the code of conduct. It pressed for further commitment to improve ‘player behaviour’ and the development of a ‘culture of respect’ among players and teams in the wake of the ball-tampering scandal.
 
 “There were three main areas of discussion. Firstly, what can (ICC) member boards do to create a better atmosphere of respect between teams and to provide for a fair contest on the field of play. Secondly, what it means to play in the spirit of cricket and, finally, the specific offences to be covered by the code, the associated level of sanctions and the process for the consistent reporting, hearing and adjudication of charges brought under the code,” an ICC spokesperson said.
 
 The cricket committee, which includes former stalwarts like Rahul Dravid, Andrew Strauss, Mahela Jayawardene, Shaun Pollock and Belinda Clark among others, was also joined by former England captain Mike Gatting and former Australian opener David Boon.
 
 Keeping the recent series between Australia and South Africa in South Africa in perspective, the cricket committee has recommended raising sanctions associated with ball tampering. The committee, however, has not specified if it would do away with the existing ‘demerit points system’ that lacked the necessary punch to punish offenders.
 
 Anil Kumble, the ICC cricket committee chairman, said, “The Committee echoed the sentiments of the ICC chief executives’ committee and the ICC board, and, as such, we have made a series of recommendations as part of the creation of a culture of respect we can all adhere to. The group felt that excessive personal abuse and ball tampering were serious offences in the game and that should be reflected in the way in which they are dealt with.”
 
 
 
 Regarding the upcoming Test championship cycle, the cricket committee has recommended a points system for the consideration of the ICC chief executives’ committee. Based on the principle of simplicity and every match needing to count, the committee recommended that points should only be awarded for each match and not a series win.
 
