THANE: The municipal administrations targeted action against hoteliers and pub proprietors for lax   rules on Monday, has triggered accusations of being ‘unfair.’

 The anti-encroachment unit of the   on Monday brought the hammer on a string of eatries and pubs in Naupada, Kothari Compound, Hiranandani Meadows etc. for flouting norms and operating without the mandatory sanctions and putting to risk the lives of hundreds of patrons who frequent them.
 
 TMC officials said, the action against the illegalities was long due and though they had issued a deadline of 15-days to get the necessary approvals, these establishment had failed to do so. However, the pub proprietors whose establishments were sealed by the administration alleged foul play after they claimed to have possessed all the required documents to attain a fire compliance. 
 
 Vihar Paymode, co-founder of MH 04 at Kothari compound said, “We received a notice by the TMC which stated that we were to apply for a fire compliance within a given time frame. January 20 being the last day, on 17th we went to the fire station at Balkum with the essential documents and papers. They told us that we will visit the place, conduct an inspection after which you can submit the files then and there. But no one came for a visit. When I asked if the officials could give me in writing that they will come for an inspection, they refused and assured me that they would be sending someone. Suddenly on Monday morning, a team of civic officials came and sealed the place. We hope to meet the commisioner soon and talk it out with him.”
 
 Agreeing with Paymode is Aman Suresh working with Talli, a lounge in the same vicinity. He said, “It’s been months since we have been paying a visit to the fire department, but they are refusing to see our papers. They have been giving us petty excuses without any proper answers.”
 
 Refuting the allegations, the station officer at Balkum, MU Mullah whom the pub owners claimed to have met said, “We had to seal these places because even though they would be having all the required papers in place, there is a violation of certain structural changes for which they had not taken permission. It will be investigated at length and a decision would be taken by the higher authority.” Besides sealing two other joints in Hiranandani meadows and one at Jambli naka, TMC cracked a whip on illegal extensions at a few restaurants and bars in Naupada and completely razed a Ladies bar at Ramchandra nagar.
 
 
