Mysuru: The early announcement of the   examination results might have spared the thousands of students across the state weeks of anxiety, but their counterparts in CBSE-affiliated schools are slightly worried since they might not be left with enough time for admissions to state board pre-university colleges. Since   results are announced much later. While officials at the department of pre-university education opined that this would not pose a problem since the last round of admissions were scheduled for May 28, the possibility of CBSE results being announced only in the last week of May could leave the students with very little time to complete the admission process.

 Students in the city point out that many colleges have already completed admissions based on merit for I PUC, and that the third round of admissions is now under way. But with the class X results for CBSE yet to be announced, the students might either have to opt for management quota seats or continue their education in CBSE syllabus.
 
 Senior principal of Koutilya Vidyalaya L Savitha told TOI, “CBSE students who want to shift from CBSE to state board are inconvenienced owing to the delay in the results. By the time, CBSE students get their class X results, all merit seats will be filled, and they will be at the receiving end.”
 
 Savitha added, “Among the main reasons for CBSE students shifting to state board at   level is the   examination. Questions for the CET exam come out of the PUC syllabus, and CBSE students shift with the aim of securing a good rank.”
 
 The principal said that many of her counterparts in CBSE schools had drawn the PU education department’s attention to the issue.
 
 CBSE students, are understandably perturbed since some of the most preferred colleges in the city have already released their first and second lists, and that only management quota seats now remained to be filled. “Seats are not reserved for CBSE students who get their results very late. We will have to pay a lot more to get admission since only management quota seats will be available,” said Vidyashri, who is awaiting her CBSE class X results.
 
 Director of the PU education department C Shikha said, “The last round of admissions to PU colleges is scheduled on May 28.”
 
 
