A decade after an appeal was filed against the orders of the   Water Disputes Tribunal (CWDT) on sharing the river water, like the turbulent course of the river, Tamil Nadu had its ups and downs in fighting the legal battle to secure the rights of its farmers dependent on their lifeline. The end is not quite desirable for the state as it lost 14.75tmcft of water to Karnataka as the  , in a judgment on Friday, revised the quantum of water to be shared among the riparian states.

 The Supreme Court order is a setback for Tamil Nadu and the reason for losing the battle is lack of coordination among the political executives, various political parties and bureaucrats in the state. In Karnataka, though there is difference of opinion between   and   units, they stick together whenever the Cauvery crisis crops up.
 
 I was involved in the legal battle to resolve the Cauvery dispute for almost 12 years, from 1982 to 1994. Tamil Nadu did not make use of the experience of senior people who were stakeholders in handling the Cauvery dispute at various stages. Not just politicians, even senior bureaucrats failed to take inputs from experienced hands who had dealt with the dispute in the past.
 
 Tamil Nadu kept changing the senior counsels handling the case in the Supreme Court. Fali S Nariman has been representing Karnataka government in the Cauvery dispute since 1989. He knows the in and out of the case, but Tamil Nadu government kept changing its senior counsels every five years. Former advocate generals of Tamil Nadu and senior   officials were not approached by the Tamil Nadu government to hear their suggestions.
 
 Clients run the risk of losing cases if they keep changing their counsels frequently. Our arguments in courts weaken when we change counsels. In a court room, what matters is the argument. Tamil Nadu had already lost 13tmcft between the interim and final orders of the Tribunal. It should have sounded an alarm bell for the state.
 
 The state lacked a proper strategy when it decided to fight it out in the Supreme Court.
 
 Governance is an art. People who run the government should know to tackle disputes, both diplomatically and legally.
 
 Decades ago, I witnessed M G Ramachandran, the former chief minister of Tamil Nadu, choosing diplomacy as a tool to deal with his counterparts in Karnataka and succeeding in his attempts to secure amicable solutions in the Cauvery dispute.
 
 After MGR, no other leader from the state had such stature to influence our neighbours.
 
 The Cauvery verdict is a lesson for us. At least now, I hope the state government learns from the mistakes committed in the past.
 
 The road ahead for us is to study the SC verdict meticulously and ensure that it is implemented in letter and spirit. We need to ensure that the 177.25tmcft of water the SC has awarded to us comes to TN.
 
 (As told to S Deepak Karthik)
 
 
 
 
 
