PATNA: Gynaecologists have hailed the   (WHO)’s latest advice that women in labour should be allowed time to deliver their baby normally instead of going in for C-section or caesarean delivery.

 Revising its guidelines, which are followed by gynaecologists across the world while making medical intervention during childbirths, the WHO last month rejected as unrealistic the traditional benchmark that a pregnant woman’s cervix dilates at the rate of 1cm/per hour.
 
 Local gynaecologists admitted the C-section has become a norm of sorts in the city, but insisted that many a time the medical intervention became necessary to counter complications. They also attributed the rise in C-section cases in recent years to the demand for it by women’s attendants.
 
 Dr   said she avoids performing C- section. “But if the first childbirth was through a C-section due to complications whatsoever, we cannot wait for long for normal delivery at the time of second childbirth,” the   gynaecologist said and added at times the expectant mother’s family members exerted pressure on the doctor to opt for C-section.
 
 Dr   pleaded it should be left to the doctor to decide when and how the ‘patient’ should deliver her baby. “At times, pregnant women’s husbands insist on C-section even against the doctor’s advice just to save their spouse from the pain perceived to be associated with normal delivery,” she said.
 
 As per the National Family Health Survey (NHFS-4) of 2015-16, Bihar saw C-section deliveries in private healthcare facilities increase to 31% from 17.2% recorded during the NHFS-3.
 
 Dr   echoed Dr Didwania. “A large section of the educated urban group does not want to cope with the labour pain,” said the gynaecologist who has a clinic at  .
 
 However, Pataliputra Colony-based Dr Nikhat Alam says   should not give in to pressure. “Many a time doctors measure the dilation of the cervix in the initial stages of labour whereas the measurement should be done at the time of active labour pain,” she said and added the rate of dilation also varied from woman to woman. 
 
 
