INDORE: For   of remote tribal village Bagli in Dewas, a trip to   temple in Puri of Odisha via   was not so common since she was travelling in a train for the first time in her life. She travelled for two nights and seen vast expanse of water in the form of Bay of Bengal along with 40 people. All of them had received an opportunity to experience a train journey between February 2 and 5 under Mukhyamantri Teerth-Darshan Yojana.

  “For many days after I came back, I could feel the rumbling of the train. Initially I was nauseous by the movement and also puked a few times in the train, but after the bout passed, I enjoyed the journey,” said Sushila Bai, who was amazed to see the sea for the first time and also took bath in the saline water.
 
 Following her return to her village she was not only welcomed by all the villagers, she also organised a special ‘katha’ to celebrate her first successful pilgrimage.
 
 It was a huge leap of faith for remote village which had once been on the brink of turning into a naxal prone area. Cocooned in its own world, the villagers of Mehendikheda had never ventured out of their geographical bounds.
 
 One of the reasons for them being limited to their own world was the violent encounter with the police in 1990s which had resulted in the death of four Mehendikheda villagers. The encounter had successfully quashed all the naxal sentiments, which were on their peak during this decade in the village. However, the encounter left the villagers much more secluded from the outside world than before.
 
 The first step to reach out to the village was through a health camp. “During the health camp, the villagers raised the demand for going on a pilgrimage. The response for the Mukhyamantri Teerth-Darshan Yojana was much better than the response for the health camp we had organized,” Dewas collector   said.
 
 On their return to the village, they were showered with flowers and the entire village came out to greet them. They also carried out a 10 kilometer long procession and organised special prayers to thank God for their successful pilgrimage.
 
 “We had never imagined that we could go on a pilgrimage. With this trip I believe I have attained nirvana for my soul,” said 74-year-old Ramgopal Daryao Singh.
 
 
