New Delhi: India's overall foodgrain production may touch a record of 277.49 million tonnes in the 2017-18 crop year (July-June) with output of pulses and rice reporting a new high. The agriculture ministry released its latest estimates on Tuesday, just when the government has been exploring various options of procuring more and more foodgrains from farmers in the year of plenty. 

 Option of extending the government's guarantee to banks and lending agencies to ensure that state agencies do not face fund crunch for procurement is likely to come up before the   for approval on Wednesday.
 
 The move will help states go for procurement of pulses, oilseeds and cotton under the Price Support Scheme ( ) through central nodal agencies and the other crops by state agencies at the Minimum Support Price (MSP) without worrying about paucity of funds.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 The basic objectives of PSS are to provide remunerative prices to the growers with a view to encourage higher investment and production and safeguard interests of consumers by making available supplies at reasonable prices.
 
 Though the year is expected to report decline in production of wheat and oilseeds as compared to previous year (2016-17), the latest estimates gave a new hope amid reports of good sowing of winter crops ( ), except wheat, in December-January.
 
 The fall in   can be attributed to farmers' decision to shift to pulses with the hope of better MSP. Farmers in Rajasthan, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh shifted to pulses during the Rabi season.
 
 The agriculture ministry, while releasing the second advance estimates of foodgrain production, attributed the record output in 2017-18 to "near normal rainfall during 2017 monsoon and various policy initiatives taken by the government".
 
 The ministry said that the assessment of production of different crops was "based on the feedback received from states". It claimed that the assessment was also "validated with information available from other sources".
 
 The ministry releases four advance estimates, before the final one which gives exact details of foodgrain output. The second estimates, released after completion of the Rabi sowing operations across the country, show that the production of wheat is likely to drop by 1.42% to estimated 97.11 MT. It is lower by 1.40 MT as compared to record wheat production of 98.51 MT achieved during 2016-17. 
 
 
