We are all fans of their well-sculpted bodies on the small screen. But have you ever wondered how they manage to maintain such fab figures, given their long and erratic shoot schedules? Add to it the long hours spent commuting and they have little time left for exercise. However, where there is a will, there is a way, and for these television actors, working out at work has become the norm. In the absence of swanky 
gyms, they stick to the basics to stay fit — doing somesaults, indulging in weight training and even jogging on the sets. BT caught some of them in ‘action’. Check out these pics...
 
 Adhvik Mahajan
 Adhvik, who ended up shooting long hours for his show ' ', doesn’t believe in compromising on fitness. So, whenever he got a breather in between shots, the actor exercised with whatever was available on the set. Be it ropes or a quick sumersault on the lawns, he found a way to sweat it out. 
 
 Jasmin Bhasin 
 Jasmin focuses on strengthening the core and so, whenever she gets a break from the shoot of her show Dil Se Dil Tak, she practises yoga and breathing exercises in her make-up room. The actress also finds time to walk around the set at least for an hour. She says, “I always plan to go to the gym after reaching home, but that is not possible on a regular basis. So, I either walk or work out on the set.”
 
 Avinesh rekhi
 The 'Tu Sooraj Main Saanjh Piyaji' actor is into weight training. While he has already lost many kilos to look younger and leaner for his role of Uma Shankar on the show, the actor believes that it is important to stick to one’s exercise regimen. Interestingly, Avinesh loves to indulge in weight training and core-strengthening exercises in his dhoti. 
 
 Surbhi Chandna
 When the lead actress of 'Ishqbaaz' is not exuding style in those glamorous outfits on her show, she loves to keep fit doing Zumba. Surbhi says, “I hate 
 working out. The only kind of exercise that I enjoy is dance. Zumba is my favourite dance form.” The actress prefers to zumba in her room on the set for 40-45 minutes.
 
 Laksh Lalwani
 He essays the title role of a warrior on 'Porus' and sport that sculpted look. So, Laksh makes it a point to stick to his exercise regimen. Besides sweating it out at the gym in  , where the show is being shot, the actor works out on the set, too. Here, he is seen with resistance bands. 
 
 Manit Jaura
 'Kundali Bhagya' actor Manit believes that weight training works best for him. So, he has installed his workout tools in his vanity van. Even when the shoot stretches to 12 hours, Manit makes it a point to devote an hour daily to fitness. Now, that’s what we call dedication. 
 
 
 The 'Rishta Likhenge Hum Naya' actor believes in making the most of what he has. So, he uses anything he finds on the set to build those enviable muscles. In the picture, he is seen working out with the weights used on camera trolleys at Film City. 
 
 Shrenu Parikh
 The pretty and petite Shrenu Parikh has a hectic schedule on the sets of 'Ishqbaaz'. Aware of the toll it can take on her health, the actress regularly indulges in pranayam and meditation in her room on the set. In addition, she also works out whenever she manages to find time during the shoot.
 
 
 A weight lifter, Adnan does not skip his workout even on the sets of his show, 'Ishq Subhan Allah'. Like some of his colleagues, he brings his exercise tools (weights) to work and sweats it out early mornings and late evenings. 
 
 Dishank Arora
 Interestingly, 'Jiji Maa' actor Dishank is such a fitness buff that he sought some space on the set to set up a temporary gym. To adjust to his exercise schedule, the makers of the show even incorporated a track where the actor is shown as a fitness freak. Believe it or not, Dishank exercises for half an hour before every shot. 
 
 
