AHMEDABAD: As the clock struck 12 midnight, the crowd on CG Road erupted in frenzy and balloons were released in air with fireworks to welcome 2018. Other stretches such as SG Road, Vastrapur Lake and   periphery also saw a large number of citizens thronging popular venues. The celebrations continued till early hours.

 City police officials said that over 2,500 police personnel were deployed at major locations to avert untoward incidents. “Teams also worked to identify inebriated persons and check on drunken driving and group brawls. Teams were deployed strategically to respond to complaints swiftly. Women police personnel were sent to all major venues in plain clothes to prevent eve-teasing,” said a senior city police official.
 
  
  
 
 Special drives were conducted on SG Road and peripheral roads by bike-borne policemen. Ahmedabad rural police also conducted checks on various farmhouses and clubs on city outskirts.
 
 While hotels and restaurants were the most sought-after venues to ring in the New Year with near and dear ones, a number of residential societies organized their own events. 
 
 “It is the time to hang out with friends and welcome the New Year with festivities. We have been regulars on CG Road just to soak in the mood. The crowd however has got thinner over years,” said Jasmin Solanki, an NGO professional.
 
 For Purva Trivedi, an architecture student, and her friends, it was party-hopping since early evening. “Traffic snarls played spoilsport but we managed to visit three venues. The number of venues have gone up over past few years,” she said.
 
 At Kankaria Lakefront, there the crowd which swelled as evening progressed with citizens rushing to enjoy the   on its last day. People also thronged the Sabarmati Riverfront. 
 
 Countdown begins with traffic snarls
 
 Most city roads were jammed on Sunday evening. The traffic snarls can be attributed to New Year celebrations, the Flower Show on the Sabarmati Riverfront, the Kankaria Carnival on the Kankaria Lakefront, and several yearend parties on the SG Road. While the CG Road was off limits for vehicles, nearby areas were choked with traffic. Dhruv Dave, a PR professional, said that it took about 45 minutes for him to travel from   showroom Crossroads to Nehru Bridge. Kankaria Festival attendees faced a similar situation as traffic cops were forced to divert vehicles after the lakefront gates closed. While Neerja Gotru, JCP (traffic), was not available for comment, city police commissioner A K   said that he had directed traffic officials to send reinforcement to maintain traffic at the troubled spots.
 
 
