HUBBALLI: District   officer and deputy commissioner S B   has stated that a single-window will be set up to issue permissions for political parties and candidates for their campaign activities. However, the parties and candidates, irrespective of party affiliations are disappointed by the way poll officials are behaving with them. All leaders are pointing out that the official mechanism is not geared up to issue the required permissions and yet officials are seizing vehicles and even raiding party offices.

 Lingaraj Patil, election in-charge for BJP rural district, told TOI that officials have even removed flex banners advertising summer camps. “When we approach officials at the HDMC seeking   for use of vehicles, hold public meetings and other activities, they say the process has not yet started. But they are masking the statues of great souls like Sadashiv Shettar, S R Bommai and KH Patil. This is the first time I am seeing such kind of over acting by officials. If we call the DC to ask about such things, he is not responding,” he said.
 
 He added that the party is mulling to file a complaint with the state election commission in two-three days. “We abide by the   but how can they implement the code without keeping their mechanism ready?” said Patil.
 
 JD(S) MLA from Navangund N H Konaraddi said the poll code is being enforced only in Dharwad district in the state. “There is no such harassment in other districts. We had applied for vehicle permission five days ago but it is not yet issued. But officials seized my vehicle on Monday for carrying just 25 pamphlets of H D Kumaraswamy’s programme to be held on April 10. To give permission for a helipad, officials are seeking details like how many people will gather, who they are and what type of luggage will be there? Can we reply to such silly questions now itself? We never violate the model code of conduct but we can’t tolerate its misuse by some officials. We have already filed a complaint with the state election commission and are waiting for a reply,” he said.
 
 Vivekanand Salins, district co-convener, AAP, said his party applied for permission to run an auto rickshaw for campaign on April 2. “As per the model code of conduct, they have to issue permission in 24 hours. When we approached HDMC and the DC office in Dharwad, no officer was appointed there to receive our applications. Officials say the single window will be set up from April 17, when a gazette notification will be issued. If that is the case, why are they checking and seizing vehicles now? When VVIPs like Rahul Gandhi and Amit Shah arrive here, their parties get the required permission and passes immediately,” he alleged.
 
 KPCC secretary Rajashekhar Menasinkai said that officials have broken the lock of a party office in   and checked inside. “As they did not find anything in the office, they just departed. However, a mechanism to issue permissions is still nonexistent in the district,” he added.
 
 Responding to the allegations, DC Bommanahalli said, "The mechanism is already in place to meet the requirement of political parties. As candidates have not been declared yet, we are issuing permissions to the parties. Because of their confusion, the parties are making such allegations.”
 
 “One party which had applied for vehicle permission, has to get the nod from the Road Transport Authority as it has altered the vehicle with digital equipment. Another party approached us at 5pm for permission to hold a meeting at 7pm. It had also not obtained the consent of the hotel owner where the meeting was to be held. Another party has sought permission in the name of candidate, while he is yet to be announced as the authorized candidate,” he added.
 
 “Of course there was a little delay in appointment of returning officers (RO) as many officials were deployed for election training at Bengaluru and Mysuru. But it has not hampered the process of issuing permissions. We have already appointed ROs for five constituencies and the remaining two will assume charge tomorrow,” the DC said.
 
 
