PIPRAICH: Election fever was at its prime in Pipraich on Monday.UP   president Raj Babbar had just finished addressing a gathering of about 200 people at   and as his fleet of SUVs headed for next venue, another SUV blaring slogans for   candidate zipped in.

 For SP, which has fielded Praveen Nishad in the Lok Sabha bypoll, Pipraich is a significant assembly constituency. Jamuna Nishad, one of the most influential Nishad leaders, and his family, dominated local politics here till BJP’s Mahendra Pal Singh won in 2017 assembly elections. Amrendra, Jamuna’s son, had come third. The seat had been held by Jamuna’s widow Rajmati for two terms before that.
 
 Jamuna himself was MLA from Pipraich in 2007, but had then won on BSP ticket. He had lost 1999 Lok Sabha polls from Gorakhpur to   by just over 6,000 votes.
 
 Both Amrendra and his mother are campaigning for Praveen, visiting every village in the constituency. Amrendra says that BSP support is welcome but will not have much impact since people were already voting for SP.
 
 “Farmers are upset with BJP while GST and demonetisation ruined small traders. In 2017 election, people had not fully understood the implications of what BJP had done but now there is going to be a change. The minorities are feeling threatened,” he said.
 
 While many people from Nishad community in Pipraich told TOI that they were unlikely to support SP, Amrendra claimed that the entire community was behind them. “Earlier, more than one Nishad candidate was contesting which is why the vote got divided. This time there is only one Nishad candidate and we expect the entire community to back him,” he said.
 
 While SP is banking on Nishad support, locals in Pipraich say that support for BJP is still strong. “We don’t know the candidate and don’t care to know. In fact, who knew Mahendra Pal Singh when he contested? People here vote for Gorakhnath Temple and for Yogi. Since he has come to power, Pipraich is getting electricity for 16-17 hours. Earlier, only the MLA’s area got that much electricity while we got it just for six hours,” said Amit Gupta, owner of a eating joint.
 
 Jamil Ahmed, a tailor, said he would vote for SP. “We voted for BJP in the past but nobody believes us. People here vote in the name of the temple. But it is a fact that power situation has improved significantly since Yogi became CM,” he said.
 
 
