AHMEDABAD: Alert for young men struggling with a receding hairline- the danger may extend beyond the cosmetic. A research by a team of cardiologists associated with Ahmedabad-based UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology on more than 1,900 individuals has revealed that those who have male pattern baldness and early greying of hair have more than five times higher risk of getting heart disease. The research covered nearly 850 men under 40 years of age with heart disease and 1,050 healthy relatives, including brothers, first cousins and in some cases fathers as well.

 The connect was brought forth in the paper titled 'Androgenic alopecia, premature greying and hair thinning as independent predictors of coronary artery disease (CAD) in Asian males' carried out by doctors Kamal Sharma, Dhammdeep Humane, Komal Shah ,Sachin Patil, Riyaz Charaniya and Jayesh Meniaya.
 
 "Internationally, there have been studies which link early male baldness pattern and greying of hair with heart disease. We explored this connect in the local milieu of Western Indian and found that young men under 40 years who had androgenic alopecia and premature greying of hair indeed had more than 500% higher chance of getting CAD. Hair thinning, though, raised the risk by three times only," says principal investigator Dr Kamal Sharma.
 
 Dr Sharma said that the study found that nearly 50% of heart attack patients had androgenic alopecia commonly known as male pattern baldness as compared to around 27% healthy counterparts.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Similarly, nearly 50% of young heart disease victims had premature greying as compared to around 30% healthy individuals. Hair thinning was found in 36.3% heart attack patients as compared to 14.6% healthy men.
 
 The severity of baldness, as measured by Hamilton scale also strongly correlated with severity of blockages in heart measured by SYNTAX score. The patients and the control group of healthy men were also tested for other risk factors like obesity, hypertension, high cholesterol levels of which were found elevated in cardiac patients.
 
 Dr Sharma says multiple hypothesis could explain the co-relation between hair and heart. “First and foremost is that baldness and early greying of hair is a sign of accelerated biological ageing. Second hypothesis is that just like inflammation in blood vessels of the heart which can lead to increased chances of cardiac disease; similarly subdued inflammation of the hair root leads to hair loss,” said Dr Sharma.
 
 The third factor could be high levels of androgens, the three male hormones, that are known to cause baldness. “These may make men vulnerable to heart disease as well as it is amply documented how menopause tilts the balance of hormones in women making them more vulnerable to heart attacks once the lose the protective cover of estrogen hormone,” says Dr Sharma.
 
 The study, experts say, is not to alarm but to forewarn. Mostly men tend to undergo annual cardiac check-ups once a year only in their late 40s. “The take home message is that men who suffer extreme hair loss and graying of hair at early age should put heart symptoms and assessment on priority even if they are younger in age,” said Dr Sharma.
 
 
