LUDHIANA: The Punjab Agri and   was organized by the Government of Punjab with   (CII) and Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) on Wednesday at Pal Auditorium in PAU campus. Industry minister Sundar Sham Arora — who was the chief guest on the occasion — met businessmen and stakeholders related to the food processing industry. He told industrialists that three mega food parks — Ladowal Food Park in Ludhiana, Sukhjit Mega Food Park in Phagwara, and International Mega Food Park in Fazilka — were being established on the Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor. Besides this, a high-tech manufacturing cluster at Ludhiana, and an integrated manufacturing cluster at Rajpura will also be built.

 On the occasion, 25 memorandums of understanding (MoUs) worth Rs 70 crore were signed with various entrepreneurs. Another MoU was also signed between the Punjab government and PAU, under which PAU will transfer techniques for the growth of the food processing sector to the food industry, and offer 50% rate discount on its existing facilities for the food industry.
 
 He added that the Punjab government — through its Industrial and Business Development Policy-2017 — had embarked upon a new journey to provide a favourable environment to the industry and businesses in the state, and invited businessmen to invest in the food processing sector, which had ample opportunities to grow. He also mentioned that the   had also given the best ratings to Punjab for doing business. “For further development of the food processing sector in Punjab, our government has provided several benefits for such industries in its new Industrial and Business Development Policy-2017,” he added.
 
 Replying to a query on the difficulties in availing loans from banks, the minister claimed that any prospective businessman could avail loans from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 25 lakh offered by banks to start their business, and if they faced any issue regarding this, they could lodge a complaint with the department, and action would be taken accordingly. He also revealed to mediapersons that deputy commissioners had been clearly briefed in this regard.
 
 The industry and commerce department’s principal secretary Rakesh Kumar Verma and director DPS   spoke elaborately on the government’s new industrial policy. Punjab Agro MD and agriculture secretary Vikas Garg, and PAU vice-chancellor BS Dhillon too were present in the conclave. Some prominent businessmen and dignitaries who attended the conclave included Bhavdeep Sardana of Sukhjit Starch & Chemicals Limited, Sanjay Singhal from ITC Limited, Akshay Bector from Cremica Food Industries Limited, and   from PepsiCo India. 
 
 
