HYDERABAD: Thousands of Birla Institute of Technology Science ( ) students began a massive protest at all three campuses in Hyderabad, Goa and Pilani on Sunday against a fee hike imposed by the administration.

 
 Students of all three BITS campuses rose in unison demanding reduction of the fee hike for academic year 2018-19. Students claimed that since 2011, the fee structure in all three BITS campuses has doubled.
 
 
 “The year 2011 witnessed a hike of 56 percent and the fees has been increasing thereafter. The fee more than doubled from Rs 62,400 in 2011 to Rs 1,30,600 in 2017. There is now a real concern of affordability of education in BITS, both for the current and incoming batches (sic),” read a media release issued by the students.
 
 
 Nearly 3,000 students of BITS Pilani began a peaceful protest on Sunday at the institute auditorium, seeking rollback of the hiked fee structure. But within hours, the protest was joined by students from Goa and Hyderabad campuses, resembling earlier protests at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) campuses in February this year over student aid for students hailing from marginalised section.
 
 
 Subsequently, a social media movement with the hashtag ‘rollbackBITSPilaniFeeHike’ and ‘BITSagainstfeehike’ went viral on Twitter with thousands of students venting their anger.
 
 
 “Power cuts during exams. Slowest internet speed I have ever encountered. Certain faculties whose knowledge is limited to one online lecture. They expect me to pay nearly Rs 2 lakh a semester just to obtain my degree ?” tweeted Tummala Anudeep, a student of BITS, Hyderabad.
 
 
 Many students were angry over BITS Pilani director Prof Ashoke Kumar Sarkar’s alleged statement on the issue.
 
 
 “One statement that left me flabbergasted was ‘drop out if you can’t afford it’. Absolutely unforgivable words from the director of @bitspilaniindia. Questions my right to education,” tweeted Vidit Bhat, a student of BITS, Pilani.
 
 
 An online petition was also started by students terming the 15 percent fee hike as ‘outrageous’. “The facilities provided by the institution have largely remained the same and haven't improved. Over time, many students begin feeling guilty and experience added pressure because of the money that they morally owe to their parents. If there's such a huge hike, the authorities should be obligated to provide a valid explanation,” read the petition, which received over 3,300 signatures within first three hours.
 
 
 BITS authorities were not unavailable for comments despite repeated attempts by TOI. “Currently I am out of campus, I will get in touhc with the cocnerned and update you as soon as possible,” was the last message from MS Uday Kumar, in-charge of media relations in   campus.
 
 
