PATIALA: In the   of a day-old boy from the  , the police is ready to hire a software company and get enhanced quality of images of the accused woman who had kidnapped the child on January 8.

 She was caught on   cameras installed in the wards of the hospital. However, her face could not be identified clearly, as the cameras installed here have poor resolutions. There are around 10 cameras installed in the hospital but all inside the wards, whereas no CCTV cameras are installed at the entrance and exit of the hospital.
 
 The accused woman had kidnapped the boy after spending around an hour inside the surgical ward, revealed the police. The rough sketches of the accused woman have also been released by the police, and the CCTV footage and sketch had also gone viral, but all in vain as the police are still clueless.
 
 Speaking to TOI, DSP City I,  , said: “Over 20 cops are involved in the probe, and different teams have been formed. The woman came inside the hospital and kidnapped the child at around 2.45pm. The resolution of CCTV cameras are poor, and we have released a rough sketch of the accused woman. We are also conducting raids on a tip-off at some places where the child could have been kept after being kidnapped. Some accused involved in crime against children are also being questioned. We will now hire a software company to enhance the quality of pictures. After this, we will probe the entire call details of around 1,700 people to trace the child.”
 
 Notably, within hours of the kidnapping, the police released a CCTV footage on social media sites, along with an appeal to masses to inform the police about the accused woman, if spotted. The toddler’s father   works as a carpenter, while the victim’s mother Sandeep Kaur — who hails from   village in   sub-division — is a housewife.
 
 The child was born in the hospital at around 6am on Sunday, and was kidnapped on Monday evening by a woman who asked the child’s mother to hand her over the child for a while, and she could take rest in the absence of an attendant.
 
 
