KOLKATA: The   has sanctioned a plan to construct a five-storeyed structure which will now be home to the multi-faith  . Mayor   handed over the approved plan on the 12-cottah plot to Gurdwara general-secretary Satnam Singh Ahluwalia on Wednesday. The Rs 8 crore-Rs 10 crore required to fund the new building will be amassed from voluntary contribution, Ahluwalia said.

 Over the seven-and-a-half decades since it was first formed in a makeshift tent, the gurudwara has become a melting pot of all communities.
 
 The Behala Gurdwara, a pre-Independence makeshift structure set up by the Sikh personnel based out of the Behala Army cantonment in the British era, has been a common sight opposite the Indian Government Mint on Diamond Harbour Road.
 
 Over time, the tent has evolved into a structure with an asbestos shed, but never became a permanent building. The G+4 structure set to come up will have a darbar hall, a langar hall, a marriage hall and rest rooms.
 
 
  
 The mayor said, “This is a good initiative and we welcome it. The   has cleared the building sanction plan.” According to sources, the KMC has also waived off the Rs 39 lakh building sanction approval fee as a goodwill gesture. Local councillor Juhi Biswas also helped to weed out problems before its sanction.
 
 Ahluwalia said, “While the exact date when it was formed is not known, this gurdwara was built by the Sikh personnel who served in the British Army and stayed in the Behala cantonment area. When the capital shifted to Delhi from Kolkata, most of these Sikh families had to move out. But in the early 1950s, when the Indian Government Mint came into being, many families settled here and took over the responsibility of running the gurdwara.”
 
 Industrialist Mahesh Malkani, a New Alipore resident and a regular to the gurdwara for the last 44 years, said, “Several Sindhi families had settled in Alipore when plots were sold to make way for a settlement. They started to throng this gurdwara. For example, my family had come here from Bihar in the early ’70s. Several Bengali families who settled here also attended the place of worship. And this is what a gurdwara is all about. Everyone should be welcome here.”
 
 Industrialist Jaspal Singh Soni, also a New Alipore resident, said, “I’ve been a regular here for the past three decades. Whenever we have done something here, we have received support from all, irrespective of their faith. And as we reach out to people to start rebuilding the gurdwara, their support gives us a lot of hope.”
 
