SHILLONG: With just about a week left for the bypoll to the   constituency, campaigning is at its peak in the South Garo Hills. Former chief minister  's daughter  , who is the   candidate, has been saying in recent meetings her desire to carry forward her father's political legacy if she is voted in as a legislator. 

 The Ampati constituency fell vacant after Mukul, who is now the leader of opposition, resigned from it while choosing to retain the Songsak assembly seat.
 
 The 27-year-old Miani, who did her schooling from the prestigious Pine Mount School, Shillong and graduated from Shri Ram College of Commerce in New Delhi, told reporters, "Ampati constituency has become important for the National People's Party (NPP) simply because my father has done so much for the people and the place. We have the best roads here which I am sure even the NPP and BJP leaders will also have to acknowledge."
 
 "Ampati has changed from underdeveloped to a developing area now only because of my father's vision. Today I ask the people of Ampati to vote for me to continue my father's mission and vision," she added.
 
 Campaigning for the NPP candidate Clement Momin on Tuesday, state revenue minister Kyrmen Shylla said the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) government would complete its full term in office. "We will stand together and ensure the progress and prosperity of Meghalaya," said Shylla while addressing election rallies at Murchapani and Garabokmangre in Ampati.
 
 Shylla added that under the leadership of chief minister Conrad Sangma, the people of Meghalaya have renewed their aspirations and are looking forward to witnessing more development in the state. "MDA will stand united as all the regional parties have full support and faith in the leadership of Conrad Sangma," Shylla said. 
 
 Chief minister Conrad K. Sangma, minister Sniawbhalang Dhar, government chief whip Agatha Sangma and a host of other party functionaries from Khasi and Jaintia Hills have been campaigning for the NPP candidate. "This bypoll is very important for NPP as it will demonstrate if Ampati is ready to embrace change and the people are willing to be on the ruling side," Conrad said at an election rally on Tuesday. The era of   Sangma and the Congress party is now over, not just in the state but throughout the country, he added.
 
 
