KOCHI: Young motorcyclists are prone to risk-taking on roads, violating traffic rules and performing attention seeking stunts.

 Researchers at the   ( ) who did a study on the risky and attention-seeking behaviour of two-wheeler drivers found male riders often violate road rules regarding drunken driving and use of cell phones. Female drivers are comparatively safe drivers and are inclined to follow rules on helmet usage. The use of cell phone while driving significantly differs based on the age of the rider, according to the study, which appeared in the Elsevier’s Journal of Safety Research.
 
  
  
 “Riders who are graduates or post-graduates are more inclined to use helmets. They are also unlikely to engage in drunken driving, use cell phones while on the road but check vehicles before use when compared to those educated up to Class XII,” said professor M N Vinodkumar, safety & fire, school of engineering, Cusat.
 
 The study found that the percentage increase in two-wheeler mishaps when compared to other vehicles is related to driver characteristics.
 
 “It is important to study how driver characteristics contribute to bike crashes. We found that driving a PTW (powered twowheelers) is a high-risk activity and can be generally placed as the riskiest mode of transport in use. The effects of age have been reported globally as one of the major factors of motorcycle crash risk,”   said.
 
 “Our national highways are designed for bikes which are the 100-cc category. Foreign-made bikes are now being produced here but our roads remain the same. Scientifically, the legal speed limit must be less than the design speed promised by the vehicle-maker. Both these factors should be related to the road design. The bikes used to have level-seats but now they have theatre-seats where the back portion is raised than the rider-seat. Also, we now have bikes that range from 125cc to 250cc brake horsepower (BHP),” said  , director, Indian Institute of Road Safety.
 
 These bikes come under the sports category and need to be ridden only on private or specialised tracks, he said.
 
 Narayan says that while the speed limits for vehicles have been increased, there is no monitoring of the kind of vehicles that are running on roads. “The enforcement agencies have not been trained. If you look at the IPS training, then road and traffic is just one period. Even the SI gets just one-day training. Now these are people who can bring about improvements in traffic management. Most of them don’t even know about separate bike lanes,” said  , a road safety trainer at Kerala Police Academy.
 
