NAGPUR: To resolve the conundrum over the newly declared no-parking zone on   Main Road, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday directed all concerned authorities to hold a joint meeting, and inform it by Monday. The authorities include deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   S, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), and the petitioners — Sitabuldi Merchants’ Association.

 The directives from the division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye came while hearing a plea challenging DCP (traffic) move to declare entire Sitabuldi Main Road as ‘no-parking zone’, and designating stretch between   and Morris College T-point as reserved for two-wheeler parking only.
 
 Through counsels Firdos Mirza and Tejas Deshpande, the petitioners questioned the DCP’s powers to declare such no-parking zones, when NMC is the authority. Quoting HC’s earlier orders in case filed by ‘Nagpur Feriwala Footpath Dukandar Sanghatna’, they pointed out that 10 meters of carriage way should be kept open for the public on every busy road.
 
 Earlier, the DCP submitted an affidavit clarifying that the vehicle ban is a temporary exercise to decongest the busy market area on Main Road, and parking arrangements therein would be finalized after inviting complaints and objections from the public.
 
 While praying for dismissing the plea, Chaitanya assured that he has taken action to ensure that hawkers will be restricted between the yellow and red lines as per the HC order in earlier plea of hawkers last year. He informed that the footpaths on either side of the road are used by shopkeepers to place their goods on display, and parking ban would also keep them free of encroachments.
 
 He further contended that the Sitabuldi Main Road is 50 feet wide, which is enough for three to four vehicles to pass side-by-side. This was the reason to issue prohibition on parking, with no intention to harm commercial activity. “The move to impose parking restrictions on the road was taken due to ‘uncontrollable traffic in specific areas of Sitabuldi’ on account of ongoing construction of Metro, cement roads, flyover, and digging to lay pipelines and cables,” the DCP stated.
 
 On petitioner’s contentions that the DCP’s March 3 notification imposing the ban was not as per the provisions, he clarified that no rules were violated as the traffic department has powers to take such decision to ease traffic congestion.
 
 (With inputs from  )
 
 
