Nagpur: In an interesting twist to PIL objecting to Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) decision to splurge Rs1.37 crore on building a compound wall and internal roads of   in Reshimbag, the civic body informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court that the premises was granted status of a ‘place of pilgrimage’ about two decades back and it’s ‘place of reverence’.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Manish Pitale on Wednesday, adjourned the hearing by three weeks after government pleader Sumant Deopujari sought time to verify NMC’s claims and get related files from Mantralaya in Mumbai. He pointed out that the developments as claimed by the corporation were of 1996-97, and old records needed to be traced out for confirming whether Dr Hedgewar Smarak Samiti premises was actually granted a status of ‘place of pilgrimage’ by the government.
 
 “Submission is that about 20-21 years back, the place in dispute has been declared as place of reverence (Shraddhasthan) and file in that respect is being traced out,” the judges noted. 
 
 The court was hearing a PIL by social activist Janardhan Moon through counsel Ashwin Ingole contending that though RSS is an unregistered organization, still the civic body is extending undue favours to them at taxpayers’ expense. In a series of reports, TOI exposed that though the rules make an exception for notified tourist sites or pilgrim places like Deekshabhoomi, the RSS headquarters is neither of these.
 
 Citing media reports, the petitioner pointed out that the proposal to build a compound wall and internal roads was first moved by ruling party leader Sandip Joshi and former mayor Pravin Datke in NMC. The Standing Panel under Jadhav later cleared it on September 12 with a majority of votes, even as Congress corporators opposed the move. Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanwe too demanded an immediate withdrawal of the order while citing NMC’s financial ill-health. Manoj Sangole, Harish Gwalbansi and Ansari Sayeeda Begum of Congress and Jitendra Ghodeshwar of BSP registered their protest during the meeting.
 
 Moon argued that the BJP-ruled corporation always cite reason of financial crunch when it comes to mandatory works like road, potholes and gutter line repairs. The rains have badly exposed its tall claims of good roads with majority of them are riddled with potholes. Even schools run by the civic body are in pathetic conditions, but its officials didn’t have funds to improve their condition. It doesn’t have the funds to build storm water network on roads which often led to rainwater gushing down nearby homes.
 
 
