JHARGRAM/KOLKATA: A camera trap installed in   a few days ago caught a royal presence in the once-Red zone early on Friday: a full-grown  , the first-ever sighting of the big cat in this area. The event, believe experts, marks one of the longest   migrations in India — a distance of more than 250km.

 Researchers from Kolkata had installed the cameras a few days ago after reports of attacks on villagers’ livestock — including seven full-grown cows and a calf — and news of pugmarks started to pour in from the forest and fringe villages like Amlia, Pardiha and Madhupur, sparking rumours of a tiger and causing panic. TOI had reported this in Thursday’s edition.
 
 While foresters are trying to find out the tiger’s origin, their best guess is that it has come from Odisha’s Simlipal National Park, the nearest tiger habitat, more than 250km away. If so, it would be one of the longest tiger migrations in India till date. 
 
 In 2008, a radio-collared tigress from Madhya Pradesh’s Kanha had travelled almost 250km in four months to reach Maharashtra’s Pench Tiger Reserve. 
 
 Experts said territorial animals like the tiger can cover such distances primarily to find mates and prey. Some feel the Lalgarh tiger could also have come from Jharkhand’s Palamu via Daltanganj, Latehar, the Ayodhya hills and Dalma. 
 
 In that case, the distance travelled would be even longer — more than 400km.
 
 “We are sending a trap cage and a team of tranquillization experts from the Sunderbans,” said chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha. “Since the animal has already killed seven cows in more than three weeks, we have planned to shift the big cat to Jharkhali (where there’s a tiger rehabilitation centre) for the time being. The   (NTCA) in New Delhi will be alerted about the next course of action,” he said. 
 
 Sinha said they would also coordinate with officials of the   (WII) to match the tiger’s stripe patterns with those available in their database to find out where the animal has come from.
 
 Divisional forest officer (DFO) Rabindranath Saha said the big cat has been photographed in the Katapahari beat of the forest, spread over more than 200 hectares. “The possible presence of a tiger was first reported from Lalgarh in early February. On February 27, we placed seven camera-trap stations with the help of WWF-India at various locations of the forest. We have asked villagers not to venture into the forest and take their cattle there,” he added. The area in which the tiger was photographed is usually frequented by villagers to collect sal leaves and to take cattle for grazing.
 
 Ratul Saha, WWF-India’s landscape coordinator for the Sunderbans, whose team had laid the camera traps, said if the big cat had indeed come from Simlipal, it had probably used the green patches of Kamardungi forest range, Saranda-Singbhum range, Chandil-Gamharia range, Dalma, Sarenga and finally Goaltore, to reach Lalgarh. “Another corridor it could have taken to reach Dalma is via the Gamharia hill range, Gorumahisani mountain range and the Dumania hill forest. From Dalma, it might have reached Lalgarh via Belpahari and Goaltore,” he added.
 
 According to an expert, since the main forested corridor between north Simlipal and Jhargram is fragmented because of mining activities, the tiger would have had to cross at least two big rivers — Subarnarekha and Kangsabati — and the NH-6 to reach Lalgarh via Nayagram. Sinha said it would have been easier for any wild animal to reach Lalgarh from the Dalma side, since it would then get more forest patches and corridors on that route.
 
 “The finding, once again, underscores the importance of protecting forest corridors and the use of gadgets like camera traps in wildlife conservation,” said state wildlife advisory board member Joydip Kundu.
 
 
