KOHIMA: In Christian-dominated  ,   is trying to steal BJP’s thunder by promising voters a visit to the Holy Land —   — at a subsidised cost if voted to power. The drama to woo Christians was played out in the poll-bound state on Wednesday even as reports in a section of media said that BJP might send Nagas to Jerusalem for free. 

 Christians constitute about 88% of Nagaland’s voters. Though Congress had included this promise in its election manifesto, which it chose to release on the social media on February 9 instead of an official function, it wasn’t noticed as the party has become a minor player in the state politics, contesting only 18 of the 60 seats. 
 
 However, coming close on the heels of Nagaland Baptist Church Council’s statement against Hinduvta forces, whom the church accused of ‘invading’ the state, talks of a similar promise by BJP created quite a political stir even though the reports were not confirmed officially by the party. A BJP source admitted that the offer of free trips to Jerusalem was leaked from the election broadcast script of BJP which was submitted to All India Radio. 
 
 “The party has not officially announced it, but the script must have leaked somehow,” said the source. All political parties, which are allotted time for AIR broadcasts, have to submit scripts of their speeches before recording so that AIR authorities can screen them. BJP spokesperson in Nagaland James   told TOI: “Whatever is circulated on the social media or for that matter what leaders say are their personal opinions and not the views of BJP.” BJP is scheduled to release its manifesto on Friday. 
 
 Nagaland Congress president K Therie was quick to point out that Congress made the promise of taking people to the Holy Land long before anyone else. “We took the decision in October and in January we got it approved by AICC and in February we announced it in our manifesto,” he told TOI. 
 
 “But, parties (BJP) who are yet to bring out their manifesto are doing better than us by promises of trip to the Holy Land. People have turned a blind eye to our offer, which is subsidised travel exependiture. People are talking of our offer today because of BJP’s offer, which is yet to be made formally,” he added. 
 
 Therie said the Church is very happy with the Congress’s offer. “On the other hand, the Church is not happy with BJP and its Hindutva. Congress is certain that the Jerusalem offer would turn the wind in its favour,” he added. The Congress manifesto says, “By an Act of the state government, a board will be established to facilitate minorities to visit the Holy Land at a subsidised cost.”
