As many as a hundred waterbodies in the state will get an additional protective ring as the State Wetland Authority is all set to notify them as ‘priority wetlands’, bringing in a series of measures for better conservation. After the notification, these wetlands will become protected waterbodies and intensive conservation measures will be taken to maintain and improve them. Forty-nine wetlands have already been selected and documentation of data that includes information such as area of the wetland, its boundaries, biodiversity information and ecological values is under way.

 The Coimbatore-based Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural history (SACON), which was entrusted with the selection and study of these wetlands, has been allotted Rs10 lakh for the purpose. In Coimbatore, 4 lakes – Sulur, Singanallur, Sengulam and Sundakkamuthur – have been chosen to be declared as priority wetlands.
 
 Once these lakes are notified, activities such as dumping of sewage, garbage and construction debris will be stopped. "Development activities will not be taken up without the approval of the authority. Once notified, it was not just the wetlands but the entire supply channels from the foothills till the wetlands will be conserved,’’ said a senior forest officer.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, as per a study by SACON in 1991 there are 1,175 wetlands that cover 1.24% of the total area. Of these, 12 have been declared as bird sanctuary and these wetlands come under the Wildlife Protection Act. "Out of the remaining wetlands, based on their ecological services, dependence of community, bio diversity, importance and other benefits, these waterbodies will be selected for notification. Of this, already 49 have been selected and a report is being prepared by SACON," said V S Vijayan, trustee of Salim Ali Foundation.
 
 As per the state government officials in the forest department, SACON submitted its initial report on wetlands on Sunday. "We will study the document and take further steps," said Jayanthi, member secretary of State Wetland Authority. This document details all the data about the selected wetlands such as its area, ecological important, species of flora and fauna recorded, activities carried out, community dependent on the wetland and similar information. In another three months, the authority will also notify these 100 wetlands. This is the first major task entrusted with State Wetland Authority, which was formed in 2016. The authority was formed based on a Supreme Court direction hearing a public interest litigation filed in 2001. 
 
 The authority is headed by the minister of environment and forests as chairperson and chief secretary as vice-chairperson. The member secretary is from the forest department and secretaries of various departments are members. 
 
 Environmentalists said that it was very important to notify the wetlands to protect them. "Ecological components in an urban environment are very important. Such laws help activists to promote conservation activities. These policies are important as it will act as a deterrent for violators," said Joseph Reginald of the Centre for Urban Biodiversity Conservation.
 
 
