The much-awaited 
  (BAN) is releasing today and  , who’s just returned after a week-long holiday in Paris, seems very confident. “I have worked really hard for BAN and the last six months have been crazy. We were shooting non-stop, then the release date got preponed. For the past 45 days, I was working double shifts. After shooting during day time, I was dubbing in the evenings. Then we went to Spain to finish the last stretch of the shoot, after that we had the pre-launch event, and then we finished dubbing for the remaining part. It was hectic. I’m not used to working like this. I needed a break, so i took off to Paris with my family for a week and came back. Now, I’m all set for the release of the film,” said the Superstar, as he settled down for a chat with Hyderabad Times. Excerpts: 

 
 I’m excited. Well, I feel the pressure during the release of every film, but with BAN, it’s an added pressure. Having said that, this is the best pre-release phase of my entire career — I never had a film that created so much buzz; the advance booking trend is unbelievable, on another level altogether. Also, may be because Siva garu ( ) and I are coming together for the second time after  , it’s exciting. It’s a phenomenal feeling!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Yes, obviously it affects me. I go into a shell completely and get very depressed when my films don’t work or when people talk negatively about them. it’s not just about me you see, there’s the director, the entire team who works with you as a family for a year. Having said that, that’s the beauty of my job — you learn and move on. And to get out of that depression, I introspect a lot — what went wrong, what didn’t work, why it didn’t work, how I can improve myself. It’s like how a child falls, gets up and walks again. it’s as simple as that. 
 
 
 Yes, it’s a ‘political thriller’ in fact. it’s been long since people watched a film like this. I think last was S Shankar’s Oke Okkadu. Nobody has taken you into a political world like that in a long time... I think people will love this new genre. And the way we tell the story, in the first 10 minutes itself, you’re transported into a political world. You just have to watch it!
 
 So, Siva garu came up to me, he said, ‘I have an idea, can we do it? You have to believe in it though’. When he told me what it was, I laughed because I was a little nervous! Me as a CM! But I think it all boiled down to the script — the writing of the film is very powerful and I play the powerful role of a CM. Siva garu explained the idea in 30 minutes and explained how the character is going to be fleshed out, and then gave me a 
 five-hour narration. Trust me, I was blown away. I was like, how are you going to put these five hours into a film? I wanted every scene to be there, but that’s not possible. There were so many exciting scenes we couldn’t include because the film has to fit in three hours. But we are very happy with the output!
 
 
 I won’t say I did homework as such, because I believe in spontaneity. to get into the skin of the character though, I watched a couple of videos of my brother-in-law Galla Jayadev, who is a politician. Some of his videos were very good and had also gone viral. So, I observed how they talk, but adapted it in my style. I must say, Siva garu was a big help, especially with the dialogues. This film doesn’t have your regular dialogues; it’s all in the ‘political language’ that we hear on TV, in speeches etc. And it was difficult, as they are not even your regular words. I can’t read or write Telugu, so somebody has to tell me the dialogues. in that aspect, Siva was very patient. I would keep asking him ‘what is this’ and ‘what is that’ ten times, and he would explain patiently. 
 
 
 The strength of Siva garu is that when he makes a films, even if it has social message, the commercial angle is not missing. That’s why he’s such a big director and people just buy it. There’s a certain sense of reliability when it’s a Koratala Siva film. And what amazed me was the dignity in the manner in which he blended the commercial angle in this political drama. So, when you’ll see this CM fighting or dancing, you’ll be excited. the audience will love it. 
 
 
 He lives abroad and is not connected with India. how he comes here, enters politics and transforms slowly is what the story is about. The whole transformation process is beautiful. And the dialogues are so powerful, that I would get carried away sometimes. It just adds to your performance. I’d say BAN is my best performance ever.
 
 
 I would always want to work with him! We have a certain respect for each other since Srimanthudu. whenever I felt a scene or a dialogue needed alteration, he would go out, have a cup of tea and come back with a new set of amazing dialogues. If I’m not getting the emotions right, he’d come up to me and say, ‘it is not working, let’s do it again’. There’s no ego at all. 
 
 
 I’m working with   for my next and we’ll kick start in June. I am very excited for that project as well. But I’ve to thank Vamsi because he waited for me for two years to start this project, no director would do that. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
