The episode of   begins with   and   spending some good moments together. Preeta says that Rishabh and   are very different despite being brothers. She says while Karan is childish and Rishabh is so mature.

 
 
 
 Karan waits outside the trial room calling out to Sherlyn. She gets tensed as   is stuck inside with her. Karan talks to a mannequin and tells it about Preeta. Prithvi peeps outside and finds Karan still there. He tells   that Karan is keeping a watch outside.
 
 
 
 
 Karan gets bored of waiting and decides to call one of his girlfriends. He calls a girl and starts talking about Preeta. The girl tells him that she would wear the same dress and would meet him at the shopping mall right then.
 
 
 Karan tries to avoid her from coming. Prithvi sees that Karan is on phone and sneaks out but Karan turns around. He gets shocked to see Prithvi. He confronts Prithvi and asks asking him what he was doing with Sherlyn inside the dressing room.
 
 
 
 
 Prithvi tries to reason but Karan does not let him go easily. Karan finally understands the entire scene. He realises that all this while the two were having an affair right under their nose.
 
 
 
 
 Karan and Prithvi lash out at each other. The staff from the shopping centre calls Rishabh and Preeta to stop them. Rishabh runs to meet his brother.
 
 
 
 
 Karan says that he would tell Rishabh and Preeta about the affair right there. Prithvi tries telling Karan that they should resolve the issue but Karan refuses to listen. Preeta bumps into Nitin, Prithvi’s friend and recognises him. But before she could speak, he walks away.
 
 
 Rishabh and Preeta reach the place and try calming the two. Karan screams at Preeta and he tells her that she should not marry Prithvi. Rishabh gets angry at Karan and tells him that he is just Preeta’s friend and he should not intervene in her life so much. Karan then explains the situation and how he saw Prithvi walk out of the same trial room where Sherlyn was changing. Karan asks Preeta to check the room herself. Prithvi tries to get Preeta emotional by telling her that she should trust him. Karan tells Preeta not to trust anyone blindly and that she herself should check. Rishabh says that he himself will open the trial room and check for the truth.
 
