THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A fairly large number of Keralites are still uncomfortable when it comes to basic   and they indulge in unscientific practices for the disposal of household waste. Data collected during the survey initiated by   (HKM) – as part of ‘freedom from waste’ campaign– pointed at this conclusion. The survey, which covered 68.66lakh households, found that only 22.4% people segregated their daily waste and 31% houses had functional waste management units.

 While state government is keen on making people process waste on their own, the indifference shown by Keralites will be a big challenge before Haritha Keralam Mission. A separate study on processing of biodegradable waste showed that 30% of people buried it in pits and 29% used it as feed for birds and animals. Another 11% burnt piled up waste.
 
 
  
 HKM officials, while cautioning local bodies about these unhealthy trends, are looking at the bright side. “We think it’s very encouraging to note that 22%people in   believe in segregation of waste. This has happened due to constant awareness campaigns. Soon this percentage will go up. It is good to note that segregation of waste is becoming a culture,” said HKM technical adviser  .
 
 The survey threw up some disturbing revelations and this might have spurred finance minister Thomas   to announce ‘Haritha Keralam Susthira Keralam’ along the lines of the literacy campaign – ‘Sakshara Keralam, Sundara Keralam’ while presenting the state budget. Isaac sought coordinated action with local bodies to attain set objectives.
 
 In case of perishable waste, nearly 20% people either burn it or dump the same in public places. Those who prepare compost manure out of waste is 8.7%. The mission now plans to completely wipe out this percentage of burning and dumping waste, while increasing participation at source-level conversion of food waste into compost.
 
 The survey revealed that the state is yet to make significant strides in scientific management of nonbiodegradable waste. Nearly 38.92% residents dump recyclable waste in public places and 22.4% burn it, increasing emission of harmful pollutants.
 
 Despite an intensified campaign to establish collection centres and ensure collection drives, only 6.5% people handed over non-biodegradable waste to panchayat or urban local bodies. Also, 15.28% continue to keep such waste at home. “We plan to establish close to 400 material collection centres and 100 shredding units in the coming months in Kerala. There is a pressing need for people to actually start handling nonbiodegradable waste in a scientific manner and actively participate in collection drives,” said a sanitation wing official. People who follow composting at home are happy with the present model and half of the total population is willing to pay a user fee to local bodies for waste management.
 
 Another issue was that 10.6% people let waste water flow out of their compound and in case of septic waste, 0.7% diverted it to drains and canals. Officials pointed out that this trend would undo the good work being done in rejuvenating canals.
 
 The freedom from waste campaign involved hectic compilation of data from house survey, presentation, case study depiction by institutions, families who successfully conducted waste management and focus on scientific measures for source-level waste management and community level waste management.
 
 Each local body was directed to prepare a waste management based on data gathered from the survey. The mission aims to fulfil all waste management initiatives by the third week of March.
 
