PUNE: A 10-member medical board of the   on Tuesday confirmed that developer D S   suffered a minor stroke or ‘acute brain infarct’ and needed to be under observation in a hospital for the next 48 hours. 

 The board decided to review his health after two days.
 
  
  
 
 Later in the day, special judge (MPID Act) J T Utpat, on humanitarian grounds, allowed a plea by Kulkarni’s lawyers that hebe kept under observation at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. 
 
 Kulkarni, also known as DSK, fell unconscious in the police lock-up and was admitted to   General Hospital on Sunday. He sought legal permission to be shifted to Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital the same day. The court had directed that he remain present before the medical board on Tuesday for evaluation of his health. 
 
 As per the court’s directive, DSK appeared before the medical board at 8am on Tuesday. The board comprised doctors from medicine, surgery, neurology, neurosurgery, cardiology, radiology, chest medicine, psychiatry, orthopaedics and the Sassoon hospital’s medical superintendent.
 
 “These experts examined him independently. Based upon their individual clinical examination and medical investigation reports carried out at our hospital and at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, we have confirmed that Kulkarni suffered ‘acute tiny infarct in the left posterior parietal lobe of the brain’,” a senior doctor from Sassoon General Hospital said. 
 
 Sassoon authorities admitted him in the hospital’s general ward for treatment around 11.30am. 
 
 “We admitted him as per the directives of the police. He is not being given any special facilities. He is treated as any other patient in the hospital. We will reassess his medical condition after two days,” a senior doctor added.
 
 Meanwhile, DSK’s lawyers moved a plea before the special court that the developer be kept under observation at the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital for 48 hours as advised by the medical board, instead of Sassoon. 
 
 Special public prosecutor Pravin   told TOI, “We strongly opposed the plea, arguing that he (DSK) was required to be under observation primarily for the monitoring of his blood pressure and sugar parameters. The report by Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, while discharging him for attendance before the Sassoon medical board, did not say that his condition was critical. He walked on the treadmill for 40 minutes.”
 
 Chavan said, “The report by the medical board showed his condition as normal but, for supervision and observation of his blood and sugar parameters. We brought this fact to the court’s notice. The court took a humanitarian view and observed that it was a matter of 48 hours and whether he remained under observation at   or Sassoon won’t be an issue.”
 
 
