Looks like it’s not going to be such a Happy   after all for mana  . For, the tableau of India’s youngest state has failed to find a place in the Republic Day Parade once again. The state government had chosen the Medaram Jatra — one of Asia’s largest tribal festivals as the theme for the tableau, but it was rejected, much to the chagrin of the State’s Information and Public Relations Department,which is now crying hoarse that the state is being denied a chance to showcase its cultural heritage at the Republic Day celebrations. 

 
 This is the third time in four years since its formation in 2014 that the state’s tableau didn’t make the cut. And the local art fraternity reckons that Telangana’s tableaux have always been a victim of the North Indian bias against Telugu speaking states. Consider this: Tableaux of undivided Andhra Pradesh also had not made the cut for Republic Day Parades for over 8 years before the bifurcation. “It was only in 2015, that the two states got a chance, and for Telangana that was a much harder battle to win,” says artist   who designed the tableau back then. 
 The theme was Bonalu with   and   as sculptural highlights, recalls Ramana Reddy. “Our tableau was cleared in the initial round, but we did not receive any communication as to whether our idea was selected or not. So I filed a writ petition in High Court on the status of the confirmation. Finally, 15 days before Republic Day we got a response from the Ceremonial Committee. Even then, many thought it was impossible 
 to pull off, but I wanted to ensure that culture of Telangana, the youngest state in  , found representation at the parade and I finished the tableau four days before the final date,” he recounts.
 
 
 
 The preparations for the celebration start as early as September when officials from I and PR department hold meetings with senior government officials to narrow down on a theme for the year. An artist is roped in to conceptualise the theme into a 3D form along with performative elements like dance and music. This then is sent back to the ‘Ceremonial Committee’ in Delhi attached to the Ministry of Defence, who either suggest changes or reject the model. While the State team re-works on the model again, the new redesigned item can get rejected again, as was the case this year.
 Sources who work closely with tableaux committees allege that partiality of the committees in Delhi is the main reason why in the last 10 years, the tableaux of the Telugu states were selected only once. “The committee in Delhi has two-three favourite contractors who make the tableaux. So practically, it is one contractor handling the building of almost all tableaux. Now when a state comes in with its own artists and contractors, it isn’t given preference,” adds a source, who closely worked with central committees.
 
 
 “Over the years, the central committees have also shown preference to have tighter ceremonies with a stress on highlighting central government schemes,” adds the source. That is perhaps why we have a tableau on PM Modi’s flagship radio program ‘Mann Ki Baat’ this year, while tableaux of states like Telangana and Orissa have had to face rejection. 
 
 
 But the Telangana government too might be at fault. The I & PR department of undivided Andhra Pradesh had an exclusive art department, that employed artists to manage such events. However, post bifurcation the department wasn’t added for Telangana. “With no art department, the state resorts to approaching artists, who some allege are not paid until the realisation of the tableaux, thus compromising its quality, and efforts from the artists’ side,” says a senior artist. Artist Laxman Aelay, who designed the state’s logo and the Telangana Police logo, feels that the government must invite artists and make it an open competition. “We can emphasise our culture and see it in broader sense only when everyone’s opinions are taken into account. For a tableaux, design is essential so it’s best to include multiple artists from the outset,” he says.
 
 
 Heritage and culture experts in city believe that there needs to be more thought involved in selecting the theme for the tableaux. “Themes like Medaram Jatra don’t have a lot of visual appeal. It is an important aspect of our culture no doubt, but it can be showcased using only trees, rocks and wood that the tribes carry to the place of worship. Maybe we can have concepts highlighting our handlooms our handicrafts and they could have a wider appeal. It’s just about thinking smart. That apart, whatever be the theme, the government needs to lobby more and ensure our state gets a chance,” opines Ramana Reddy, President of Hyderabad Art Society. Anuradha Reddy, INTACH Telangana co-convenor concurs, saying, “There is no clarity on what basis these tableaux are chosen. Maybe the ‘Medaram Jatra’ theme got rejected because it has no visually identifiable element like a temple or a structure. Next time we must try a theme centred around heritage sites of Telangana, which are an amalgamation of so many cultures right from Kakatiya, to the Nizams. And yes, the authorities must make the modalities of the selection process more transparent and take suggestions from people, students as to what they think represents them best.” 
 
 
 Hari Krishna Mamidi, Director, Telangana Department of Language and Culture says, “Medaram Jatra is very crucial to Telangana as it’s a celebration of the traditions of the first generation of aboriginal tribes in the state. It is attended by people from multiple tribes, so it’s but natural it gets selected from our end. But maybe for coming years we can focus more on cultural aspects of Telangana and not just festivals as done in the previous years. The culture heritage of Golconda was tapped in for Independence Day, which was a very innovative move and was lauded internationally. Maybe we could innovate in a similar way.” 
 Artist Laxman Aelay shares similar sentiments. “We must make a contemporary blend of modernity and age old tradition by bringing elements of the Hitech City and Metro infrastructure in the next year’s tableau,” he says.
 
 
