NAGPUR: Here is another example of the nexus between   ( ) engineers, contractors and influential residents.

 A contractor has constructed a   on private land for   Zone, without any approvals or tendering process, to facilitate a car service and washing centre amid residential buildings and a girls hostel at  . NMC approved the road construction only on February 14, and will now issue a tender for the work!
 
 NMC Laxmi Nagar Zonal Committee headed by Prakash Bhoyar has approved the proposal to construct the cement concrete road. However, the road has already been constructed a couple of months ago. TOI has pictures of the road.
 
 There is a small lane of around 30-50 meter in length in Rahate Colony. Two residential buildings, a kindergarten school and SC Girls Hostel are situated in this lane. There was an open plot, where the roads ends, and residents were demanding a road here for last few years. But NMC could not do so since the land belonged to a private person.
 
 As per information from local residents, engineers from NMC Laxmi Nagar zone engaged a private contractor and converted the lane into a cement road a couple of months ago. NMC documents show engineers recently prepared a proposal and got approval from deputy engineer RV Mule and assistant commissioner Suvarna Dhakane. The proposal seeking Rs1.63 lakh was tabled before the zonal committee, which gave its nod, on February 14.
 
 Now, engineers are to invite quotations from private contractors to construct the road. The work will be ‘allotted’ to the contractor who has already constructed the road, and the payment will be released.
 
 NMC sources told TOI such irregularities are taking place at zone levels due to relaxation in norms for emergency works.
 
 “NMC had allowed works below Rs 2 lakh from ward funds and Rs 3 lakh from zonal funds for emergencies like sewage water chocking, street lights repairs, potholes, retaining walls on nullahs etc. Provisions have been also made for executing these works inviting quotations. Taking undue advantage, engineers have also started taking up non-emergency works, like in Rahate Colony, as per demand from corporators and influential residents,” sources said.
 
 Engineers are preparing proposals for all works just below Rs 2 lakh and Rs 3 lakh to avoid waiting for approval from head office and tendering process. In Laxmi Nagar zonal committee meeting, 20 proposals were approved with project cost between Rs 1.98 lakh and Rs 1.99 lakh. Sources also said works are divided in parts to keep cost below Rs 2 lakh.
 
 
