GAYA: Celebrated activist Medha   came down heavily on   police on Monday for alleged misuse of   (RAF) in muzzling the voice of people’s protests.

 Patkar, who visited Gewalbigha and Maroofganj localities of the town late on Sunday evening, demanded an independent inquiry into the rape and murder of a minor girl and terror related arrests last week.
 
 Patkar told this newspaper she would prefer inquiry in the rape case by a retired judge.
 
 On the alleged misuse of RAF, Patkar said people protesting against the rape and murder of a minor girl were brutally assaulted following the recovery of her body on February 7. “False criminal cases under serious sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have been slapped against protesters,” Patkar said.
 
 Criminal cases have been registered against nearly three dozen residents of Gewalbigha following February 7 protests. Patkar demanded withdrawal of the cases registered against the protesters. “Protest is the democratic right of the people and muzzling the voice of protest does not augur well,” she said.
 
 Patkar said the victim’s family has also been shabbily treated and instead of officials’ sympathy, they were bullied into submission.
 
 Speaking on the arrest of terror suspects, Patkar alleged that proper investigation protocol was not followed. “Even though family members of the suspects were cooperating with the police, yet arrest memo had not been made available to them. The arrests were made by police in civvies and women cops were not included in the party that raided the houses. The investigation and evidence were also not very credible,” she said.
 
 Gaya SSP  , however, refuted all allegations made by Patkar. “Antisocial elements joined the protesting mob and started pelting stones after the recovery of the minor girl’s body. Minimum use of force was made to prevent damage to life and property and maintain public order,” the SSP said.
 
 Replying on the allegation of registration of cases against innocent persons, the SSP said judicial remedy was available to the accused to prove their innocence. “They can also put their point of view before the case IO,” the SSP said.
 
 Speaking on the issue of arrest and raid protocol not being followed in respect of terror suspects arrested from the Maroofganj locality of the town, Malik said all legal requirements had been complied with and still if anybody had specific complaints, these would be addressed.
 
 The SSP said the two terror suspects have been taken on police remand for further questioning.
 
 
