He is best known for his song ' ' with Honey Singh and though it has been years since it released,  , an alumnus of  , still considers that song as his "backbone." Not many know that his friendship with Honey Singh goes back to 2004, when Deep had only finished school. Singh had then told him, "Tu agle 50 saal tak gaana nahi gaa sakta." But Deep had made up his mind and had promised him, "Paaji, mera sabse bada hit gaana aapke saath hi hoga," which turned out to be true!

 
 Deep, a resident of west Delhi, tells us that he met the 'Blue Eyes' singer in 2004, when he had just finished class XII. "I know him since 2004, when he used to own a purple coloured car. That was the year when I had just finished school. He also loves lemon chicken that my mother prepares. Mujhe aaj tak yaad hai main Honey paaji ke saath A-110, Okhla mein recording karta tha and I used to stay in west Delhi. Honey Singh mujhe bulate thay raat ko ek-do baje and my mother used to accompany me to that place. She used to sleep in the car till the time I would finish recording," he says.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Deep got admission in SGTB Khalsa College because he wanted to meet the celebrities who would visit the college. "I have done BCom (Hons) from SGTB Khalsa. Hum bahut shaitani karte thay. I took admission in the college because I wanted to meet all the celebrities who would come to visit. Main college bass inn logon ko dekhne ke liye aur apne aap ko groom karne ke liye jata tha. Wahan ka atmosphere thoda different hai, jaise aap SRCC ki baat karo toh wahan saare 90% waale , par yahan 80% waale bhi aa jaate hain. Humare time toh 60% wala bhi aa jaata tha. We used to have Maggi at Tom Uncle’s a lot. I used to chill with my friends at Kamla Nagar or would hang out with the members of the Bhangra dance society," he tells us.
 
 
  
  
 
 It would not be wrong to say that Punjabi singers are ruling not only the music scene but also the film industry. Deep agrees with us and adds that Punjabi singers have made the language very easy to understand. "We all have struggled a lot. Guru Randhawa, who has become a superstar now, has also struggled a lot. After six years in this business, I have made a song for a movie in Bollywood. Par aajkal ke jo young singers hain, woh sochte hain woh seedha studio enter karein aur unka gaana dusre din picture mein chala jaye. Ya raaton-raat woh superstar bann jaaye, par yeh ho nahi sakta. Har cheez mein time lagta hai," he explains.
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar
 
 
 Talking about the image that the Punjabi singers have, with flashy cars, alcohol and lyrics that objectify women, he says, "Ya toh hum ladkyion ki tareef kar sakte hain, ya hum burayi kar sakte hain. Ya hum gaane mein gaadi la sakte hain ya nahi la sakte. Uske baad jo bacha hai, usko aajkal ki generation pasand hi nahi karti, toh hum kya gaayein? Bollywood is different, they tell us that they want a song on a particular situation, but in our singles, we do not have that. We just want to make people dance, so when we compose our own songs, we don't have any limitations. Bollywood mein limitation hai. We make lyrics from what we hear. I have learnt this from Honey paaji. Like in one of my songs, I am talking about Kylie Jenner's lipstick as she has launched her lip kit. Toh yahan se gaana bann gaya. Ab chaar bottle vodka roz Honey Singh toh peeyega nahi, na main peeyunga. Ye sab likhne wali, kehne wali baat hai. So what we show in videos is completely different from what we are in our real lives," he says.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
