KOCHI: There is always the   in this part of the city sinking in as the soil type is mud or clay, say experts. When piling is being done for constructions, engineers will have to keep checking for the strength of the pile before they start building the structures on the foundation.

 “They were making friction piles which transfer the load of the building to the soil across the full height. Now any pressure on the soil can affect the pillars and cause disturbances to the building,” said Yakub Mohan George, former PWD engineer.
 
 The clay in the soil acts as an adhesive that gets attached to the pillar and hardens it. But if there is any pressure, the clay loosens and this could result in a cave-in, he said.
 
 If one were to look at the site, we can see signs of the road caving in on both sides of the   pillars. The Metro pillars are strong as the building process was rigorous, George said.
 
 Over the years, people have been measuring the vertical load capacity but not checking the horizontal pressures that can lead to sinking of structures. “We will probably have to go beyond 30m deep in many areas,” he added. Structural engineer   said he couldn’t spot anything wrong about the piling which is about 30m deep. “They have just started excavation for the building. There is a drainage and water pipeline and the region was affected due to some damage on those water lines which led to heavy leakage of water.”
 
 Precautions need to be taken when work is happening near to such pipelines or water lines. What happened is almost six metres inside the property. Proximity to these water sources and rains in the last few days have probably caused this. Ideally, water need to be removed in 24 hours.
 
 “This region is a coastal belt and hence the soil does not have hard rock or laterite. The pressure from the water table increases the load on the pile and shakes it. Soil piping is a phenomenon which is seen here. It is a subsurface erosion through which water trickles into the soil,” said K Sajan, professor, department of marine geology and geophysics,   university.
 
 “In this part of the district, multi-storey buildings should be restricted because of the clay soil. During the building of the marine science building,   at Foreshore road, we did piling till 40m though the initial plan was at 30m,” he added.
 
 
