Back in the day, Sukhbir’s name could make anyone worth their salt and pepper, get off their seats and groove. His Punjabi songs, ' ' and 'O Ho Ho Ishq Tera Tadpave', were runaway hits at the dawn of the new millennium. Nearly a year ago, 'O Ho Ho Ishq Tera Tadpave' made a comeback of sorts on the airwaves, thanks to 'Hindi Medium’s' music album. The song worked its magic even in its retouched version — it soared on the charts and now, continues to be a dance-floor favourite.

 BT met   on one of his many discreet visits to Mumbai recently to know how it feels to find his song back on the charts. He says, “It has been a while. I tried hard to get back into Bollywood, but it didn’t materialise. I am doing something to create my own platform now. I plan to do stuff similar to what I was known for in the past. I find that the kind of songs I created then, continue to be popular and are played at places and occasions that presents an opportunity for dance. What’s even better is that an artiste has direct access to fans and he knows what they like.” 
 
 The singer-composer believes that the music scene has dramatically changed in the last few years. “The rap culture became successful, but every other song began to have a rap. That will phase out and something else will seep in. People want something different now,” he said, adding, “The music scene is also full of people, who have come from some remote corners of the world and made it big purely on the basis of their talent. It’s the best thing that has ever happened. A talented boy from a small city and I have the same kind of opportunity and exposure today. It’s a level playing field now.” He points out that creating songs, shooting videos and putting them up on the internet has indeed created overnight sensations, who are now booked for stage shows and recordings through the year.
 
 “You can do your own thing and put it out there. The potential of your neighbour could be huge and you may not know that until it comes out there in the open. Super Woman   is a classic case of that. She makes big bucks today. Luck is not as big a thing as it used to be back in the past,” says Sukhbir. 
 
 In the recent times, singers like Guru Randhawa,   and   have not only become popular as singers and actors in Punjabi films, but have also broken ground in the mainstream Hindi cinema space. “The Punjabi brigade in Bollywood is increasing. I love it because all of these mundas were singers originally. I plan to explore that route, too. Hopefully, you’ll see me sing as well as act in a few Punjabi films,” reveals Sukhbir, who plans to revisit one of his most popular dance songs, 'Sauda Khara Khara'.
 
 He concludes, “People say they want something that transcends the boundaries of time, it should also be classy and sounds fresh whenever you play it. I am focussing on creating new songs like that. I am not focussing on Bollywood at all. I approached everyone and I tried a couple of films too. They don’t give much creative freedom to the singers, while I am an artiste who wants to have the freedom to express myself more freely. So, doing it by yourself is the best way to do it, right?” 
 
