PANAJI: The governmentconstituted committee has asked the government to enact a law or amend existing legislation to prohibit consumption of alcohol in public places and unlicensed premises. It has also called for compounding of offences by penalizing offenders if found drinking alcohol in public places by levying a penalty Rs 500 for the first offence, Rs 1,000 for the second offence, and Rs 2,000 the third time.

 
  
 
 The committee, headed by   (TTAG) vice-president  , was constituted to suggest effective safety measures to control drowning incidents, illegal vendors and public drinking on the beaches following a spate of drowning deaths in October 2017.
 
 To avoid any drownings when lifeguards withdraw from beaches after sunset, the committee has asked the government to extend the working hours till 8.30pm. It has also asked that the present surveillance and beach patrolling be extended from midnight to early morning, to avoid any untoward incidents. The committee suggested that lifeguards be provided at waterfalls of   in Sanguem, Mhovacho Guno in Sattari and   in   taluka. Besides, drownings at beaches, similar incidents were also registered at waterfalls which are not manned by lifeguards.
 
 The committee stated that shack operators and hoteliers should be involved in creating awareness and be asked to give advisory to their guests to swim in demarcated swimming zones. It further submitted that precautionary warnings against entering the sea after consuming alcohol be prominently displayed at all outlets selling liquor.
 
 The consumption of liquor in public places be banned, and enforced through police.
 
 The report also suggested that glass bottles of any kind not be allowed on beaches. It pointed that there is a need to increase the number of signboards displaying clear precautionary instructions to not enter the sea after drinking.
 
 The report has also addressed the issue of begging and illegal hawking with the committee recommending that the local authority not be allowed to issue NOCs or permits for a business on the beach. This should be left in the domain of the tourism department alone. Local authorities should regulate operation of vendors and hawkers beyond the beaches. It should ensure that the entrance and approach roads to the beaches are kept free of obstacles, and open at all times.
 
 Shacks allottees should not patronize any kind of vendors.
 
 Photo identity cards and uniforms should be made mandatory for all staff employed by shack operators, the panel said in its report.
 
