KOLKATA: The   is serving notices and putting up boards in front of unsafe and dilapidated buildings in the city, mostly located in central Kolkata. They have asked the owners to pull down the dangerous portions, failing which the civic authorities plan to demolish the unsafe parts and set up new ones with proper rehabilitation of the tenants.

 
 The civic authorities have identified four such dilapidated structures, two on   and two on  . The civic body has tied up with the Kolkata Police who will be looking into the law-and-order issue once the demolishing of the unsafe portions of the buildings start.
 
 Sources from   said they plan to start pulling down the unsafe portions soon if the owners to whom notices are being sent do not take any action and report to the KMC. The hurry, according to sources, is due to the ensuing monsoon that is scheduled to arrive from the middle of June. There are fears that the dilapidated sections of the buildings could collapse after heavy rains. The recent squalls in the city have already seen partial building collapses that have claimed three lives so far.
 
 The KMC authorities are trying to identify the owners of these dilapidated structures that are being declared ‘dangerous buildings’. The eviction notices are being sent to the tenants in cases where the owners could not be traced.
 
 A notice that has been issued to one such building at Lenin Sarani instructs either the owners or occupants to demolish or remove the dangerous portions immediately and to repair the rest of the building. The notice mentions that the owner or occupants of the building are required to take appropriate steps within 30 days of the notice being served. The owner or occupants can also write to the KMC within seven days if they have objections.
 
 An occupant of a dilapidated building on Rani Rashmani Road said that the board marking the building as ‘unsafe’ was put up recently by the KMC authorities. However, they added that they did not have anything to say on the matter since they were just occupying some parts of the building as tenants.
 
 In 2016, the state government had formed a high-level committee headed by the mayor to look into the issue of dilapidated buildings in the city and what could be done to the structures. This move was taken after an old dilapidated house on   collapsed, killing two residents.
 
 Last August, as many as 12 dilapidated structures had collapsed in a span of 40 days. The reason why monsoon is the most dangerous time for dilapidated buildings is that when water seeps into a weak structure during heavy rain and it is followed by a sunny morning, the lime which is used as the cementing agent in the building weakens.
 
