NEW DELHI: Making good on its long-standing threats, the   has sounded the death knell on its   with the  .

 
 The Shiv Sena on Tuesday passed a resolution to go solo in the upcoming   assembly polls as well as the   elections scheduled in 2019.
 
 Sena leader   moved the resolution at the party's national executive committee meeting in Mumbai and it was passed unanimously. The party has pledged to win at least 25 seats (out of 48) in the Lok Sabha and 150 seats (out of 288) in state assembly.
 
 "The BJP allied with the 
  in the name of Hindutva and the 
  kept patience for Hindutva. However, the BJP in the last three years has been demoralising the 
  and using power to do so," Raut said at the meeting.
 
 Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis expressed his skepticism and adopted a 'wait and watch' outlook.
 
 "Lets wait, they have been saying many things, as of now we are in alliance in the government and this government will complete its term," Fadnavis told news agency ANI at Davos.
 
 From time to time, Sena leaders have talked about ending the coalition. Back in December, Raut had signaled that the Sena and the BJP were on the verge of a split after youth wing head Aaditya Thackeray threatened to walk out of the Maharashtra government within a year. Party president   too had hinted towards parting ways with the ruling party after being disgruntled with its failure to check rising prices of petrol and diesel.
 
 The right-wing party shares an uneasy alliance with the BJP in the state and has been vocal in opposing some of Prime Minister  's policies. 
 
 Cracks in the BJP-Sena alliance became apparent when the latter decided to contest the 2017 Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls on its own strength. What followed was a bitter-fought campaign with allegations of corruption and incompetence flying back and forth. The Sena had emerged as the single largest party, bagging 84 seats in the 227-strong civic body as against the BJP's tally of 82.
 
 Shiv Sena is holding internal polls to elect its party president and other functionaries today, which happens to be the birth anniversary of its founder  .
 
 Sena president Uddhav Thackeray is set to be re-elected as there is no other nomination for the post, party sources said.
 
 Aaditya is viewed as Uddhav's political heir and has led various student agitations at Mumbai University. There is speculation that he will be given more responsibility and will play a bigger role in the organisation.
 
 Uddhav, 57, became the Sena president five years ago on January 23, 2013.
 
 
