Nagpur: The annual theatre   for young artistes with mighty talent kicked off on Sunday afternoon at Scientific Society Hall, Laxmi Nagar. Organized by state cultural affairs department, the 15th Maharashtra State   Spardha opened its primary round for Nagpur region. The competition is being conducted in five regions, and a total of 336 theatre groups have taken part in it.

 Nearly 25 plays have been shortlisted to be performed in the competition in city, and on Monday, four plays were staged — ‘Town v/s Township’, ‘Chinha’, ‘Patla Tar Ghya’ and ‘Dhulivandan’. The first day saw an interesting mix of topics, ranging from hard hitting to absurd comedy.
 
 The opening play ‘Town v/s Township’, written by Virendra Latankar and directed by Nikhil Kukde, is a presentation by city’s Swarangan Sanskrutik Pratishthan. The every growing townships are not only engulfing villages, but also making traditional form of employment redundant, especially in villages. The play put forth the issue through the medium of a series of arguments between children of town and township. 
 
 Children in the play portrayed exceptional performance and conveyed the idea with only a tree as a prop. The play also impressed audience with related poems.
 
 Bringing comedy and creativity to the fore, ‘Chinha’ had a ‘dot’ as a character who explains its role, usage, grievance and importance to the students and teachers of a school. Everybody then gathers to find a solution to his problem. The play was written by Dr Manik Adyalkar and directed by Virendra Latankar.
 
 ‘Dhulivandan’, written by Sunanda Sathe, and directed by Pallavi Deshmukh, brought focus on the fact that as much childhood is an age of learning values, it is also characterized by naughtiness. The play showcased participants of a theatre workshop and their engagement with their mentor through games and staging of acts — Bhakt Pralhad or story ‘Charanraj’.
 
 ‘Patla Tar Ghya'’ has been written by Shobha Deshpande and directed by Smita Moharil. All the performances are being judged by a panel of three theatre   — Mita Wagh, Milind Tikkekar and Gita Kholangade.
 
 Playwright Sanjay Pendse was the chief guest of the event which was presided by artiste Nalini Bansod on Monday. The festival will continue till January 12 and will showcase about five or six plays everyday beginning 10am.
 
 On Tuesday, ‘Kombda Aala Re’, ‘Sanvaadit’, ‘Cham Cham Chamko’, ‘#Goshwara’, ‘Tapal’ and ‘Gandh ... Ek Anamik Chahul’ are scheduled to be presented.
 
 
