One of the most anticipated   of  , ‘Harjeeta’ starring   has reached the theatres. The movie was the talk of the town from the day the project was announced. Then it was Ammy’s physical transformation, the intriguing trailer and amazing music of the movie that turned heads. While portraying a real-life character on screen might seem like a lot of responsibility and many might feel the pressure of getting it right, the singer-actor Ammy Virk has his cool dude attitude on point.

 
 
 
 
 Although Ammy starrer ‘Harjeeta’ is the second biopic in Pollywood this year after ‘Subedar Joginder Singh’, as the plot of the movie is different, there was no clash of interest as such. However, it is also the second sports based movie of the year after ‘Khido Khundi’ which was also based on  .
 
 Speaking about the same, Ammy said that he had no issue with Ranjit Bawa’s hockey based film releasing prior to his film. The actor also added that they had pitched for a May release a year back and their shooting began in November and they are on time and that is what matters. According to him, as long as he has his slot, it doesn’t bother him as to which part of the year other films release.
 
 
 
 
 For his role in ‘Harjeeta’ the 26-year-old actor had to look like a teenager, and thus, he trained hard to fit into the shoes of the character. His recently released gym and hockey training session video gave a glimpse of his hard work. Prior to that, the actor took to social media to share the pictures of his clear abs, which went viral. When asked that if he would love to maintain the same physique, Ammy said, “My body is like a rubber gum, I will transform as the character demands, but at the same time I would like to say that we should indulge in sports and be physically active to stay fit”. The actor also said, “My intention behind putting those pictures of me in the gym is not to flaunt, I just want to inspire people to be fit”.
 
 
 
 
 With Punjabi songs being a part of every Bollywood movie, the respective industry is witnessing a boom. Considering this catching trend, we asked Ammy if any of his songs is soon to feature in a Hindi film and the actor replied, “I have worked on a number of songs. Let’s see if anything clicks. Meanwhile, I enjoy where I am and I am in no hurry to be in Bollywood.”
 
