VILLUPURAM: Kazhuperumpakkam in  's   district may not be the only village in the country that worships fruit bats and protects them but it's been a particularly inauspicious time for veneration in recent weeks. 

 The bat, also known as the Indian flying fox, is the natural host of the deadly   and, with health officials in Kerala confirming 18 human deaths from cases of encephalitis - a fatal complication from Nipah virus infection (NiV) - the 350 families of Kazhuperumpakkam have been overtaken by panic.
 
 There are hundreds of fruit bats in the village and surrounding areas, locals say, and they have worshipped the flying mammals as a divine manifestation since the time of their progenitors.
 
 "We have worshipped these bats since the time of our ancestors," says Mathiazhaghan, 65. "We banned Diwali fireworks because of our respect for them. We do not burst firecrackers even during temple festivals and marriages."
 
 "But we are scared now, ever since we heard that many people have died in Kerala because of a disease spread by the bats," he said. "People have been spreading rumours that our bats are also infected."
 
 He does not know that, according to the World Health Organisation, NiV was first identified in Malaysia in 1998. Or that pigs were then the hosts. And that changed when humans were infected in Bangladesh in 2004, after drinking date palm sap that was infected by fruit bats with the virus.
 
 Mathiazhaghan says he's just scared stiff now. Seetharaman, 62, another old-timer in the village and Mathiazhaghan's friend, agrees. He's terrified, he says.
 
 The locals, they say, would be relieved if the authorities come to their village and conduct tests on the bats to confirm that they are not infected with Nipah. "They could also checks individuals in the village for the disease," Seetharaman says. "That would be reassuring too." 
 
 
 
 
 Mathiazhaghan says, “Despite our efforts, the numbers of bats has dropped several fold in a short time because the poachers are relentless. They hunt them down when they go in search of fruit and water.”
 
 An old belief in the village, a remote overgrown hamlet in Vanur taluk, is that the meat of the fruit bats in the area can heal tuberculosis, locals say. They have on several occasions caught and thrashed poachers who tried to hunt the bats.
 
 But they now find themselves in a dilemma. Could the object of their veneration, they ask, now actually be a threat to them?
 
 Their fear is probably not unfounded. Nipah is highly contagious and has a 70% mortality rate. WHO has named it one of 10 “priority diseases” that could cause the next major disease outbreak worldwide.
 
 Villupuram deputy director of heath Saundammal Shanmugam dismissed as rumours the stories that the bats of Kazhuperumpakkam were infected with Nipah.
 
 “We have already conducted a preliminary inspection in the village,” she says. “The village has been under our radar after the Nipah deaths in Kerala. However, our observations have revealed that no one in the village has any abnormal fever or any symptom of Nipah infection.”
 
 “We plan to conduct a medical camp after assigning blocklevel medical officials to the village,” she says. “Greater awareness on the disease is necessary.”
 
 While bats are being blamed for the spread of the deadly Nipah virus in Kerala that has claimed around a dozen lives so far, one village in Bihar is worshipping them.
 
 People in Sarsai village in Vaishali district of Bihar, have also worshipped fruit bats for generations. As in Kazhuperumpakkam, they too consider the bats their protectors and link them to prosperity. The distance from the Nipah fatalities, however, has so far insulated them from the rumours that have the Tamil Nadu village in cold fear. For now, at least.
 
 
 
