MUMBAI: Additional commissioner of customs   knocked down two morning walkers on the   road at Mankhurd, killing one of them on Tuesday morning. Sakthivel told police he dozed off while driving the car. 

 Pandurang Kokre (40), an auto-rickshaw driver, died on the spot, while his neighbour,   (55), suffered serious injuries and has been admitted to Rajawadi hospital.
 
 Sakthivel, an   officer with air cargo at Andheri, was arrested under IPC sections of 304 (A), 337, 338 and 279 for causing death by negligence, rash driving and causing hurt. Police said he was released on bail but his   has been taken into custody.
 
 Police said Sakthivel was driving from Mumbai towards Vashi when he knocked down the two.
 
 Kokre and Bhandari, residents of Jai Hind Nagar at Sonapur in Mankhurd, were thrown several metres away due to the impact of the  , while the car hit an electric pole.
 
 “Pandurang and Ashok used to go for a walk every morning at 5.30 and return by 7.30. We got scared when a constable came over, asked about Pandurang and then broke the news of the accident,” said his sobbing mother. Pandurang, who was unmarried, used to operate the auto and take care of his mother and sister.
 
 Bhandari, who used to work as a security guard, had retired few years back. “We are told he has suffered major fractures on his left leg and his spine has been broken. The driver has got bail, but we are poor people, and are worried about medical expenses,” said his daughter, Sunita.
 
 Police said Sakthivel tried to flee immediately after the accident, but cops posted a stone’s throw away arrested him. “We booked him under various IPC sections but he was immediately released on bail,” said Sanjay Vernekar, senior inspector, Mankhurd police. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone 6) Shahji Umap said they sent Sakthivel for a blood test which ruled out him being under the influence of alcohol. Sakthivel did not respond to calls from TOI.
 
 In a hit-and-run case, a youth, Pravin Salunke, died after a truck hit him at Savli Naka, Chembur, on Tuesday. Govandi police registered an offence against an unknown driver and are scanning CCTV footage from nearby, to identify the driver who fled without giving the victim any medical assistance. 
 
 
