MARGAO: You can’t expect much from this   defence, can you? FC Goa invited trouble for themselves after being held 2-2 against   at the   in Fatorda on Sunday.

 
  and   twice gave FC Goa the lead at home but with a rickety defence that hasn’t kept a clean sheet for 12 matches in a row, the visitors were always going to have a chance. Marcinho first equalized at the stroke of half time and then Colombian striker John Mosquera rose from the bench to thwart Goa’s progress.
 
 The lone point did not harm Goa but, coming on the back of a home loss against Mumbai City FC, it does their chances no good either. They are now placed fifth with 20 points from 12 matches and face intimidating clashes against Bengaluru FC away and Chennaiyin FC at home in their next two matches. It’s still in their own hands, though such poor form at the back doesn’t help.
 
 Goa were forced to make changes to their back four. Injured Portuguese defender Bruno Pinheiro could only make the bench and coach Sergio Lobera was forced to hand debut to Jonathan Cardozo at right-back to make up for the suspension of Seriton Fernandes. As if that wasn’t enough, Brandon Fernandes picked up an injury early in the match and Manvir Singh stepped into his boots inside the first 10 minutes.
 
 Manvir is industrious but not quite in Brandon’s mould. Newcomer Jonathan — picked from the reserve squad — has talent but was left with too much to do. However hard anyone tried, it wasn’t quite the same. NorthEast United remained compact all through with centre-backs Jose Goncalves and Sambinha doing most of the defending. Sambinha fumbled just once in the opening 45 minutes and recovered quickly enough to stop Manvir in his tracks.
 
 Upfront, Brazilian striker Marcinho posed early threat and twice forced saves from keeper Laxmikant Kattimani.
 
 Mandar, afforded time and space inside the box, broke the deadlock with a rasping drive in the 43rd minute, and just like the previous game, Goa dropped guard, allowing NorthEast a way back just two minutes later.
 
 Reagan Singh’s cross from the right took a deflection of Cezario and went to the far post. Holicharan Narzary simply cut it back for Marcinho, who slotted home, catching the Goa defence napping.
 
 This team can definitely score and the hosts showed why they are the best attacking side in the league. A brilliant long ball from Ahmed Jahouh saw Manuel Lanzarote on the left control it well and pick up Coro with another long ball. Such a fine move needed another fine finish and Coro did not disappoint for his 13th goal in the 53rd minute.
 
 All seemed going well for Goa. They took control of the proceedings, until another calamity struck in the 71st minute. Rowllin Borges scooped a ball over the Goa defence where Seiminlen Doungel squared it for Mosquera. The Goa defence had left him unmarked and the substitute made no mistake from handshaking distance.
 
 
