In the latest episode of  , the wall opens as soon as Parul and   solve the puzzle. There is a tunnel through which they have to go. Parul is worried as the tunnel has molten lava inside.

  is determined to meet  , who has magical powers. She wants to take him to the palace for her benefit. She takes Tantramata to convince Uibaba.
 
 Surendra is suspicious about the pomegranate that he found in the hole of the staircase. He guesses that Mallicka must have a secret related to that fruit.
 
 The moment Parul and Raghav go inside the tunnel, it starts erupting lava.
 
 In Suryanagar the animals come to know about Parul. A little deer calls other animals to a meet at the palace’s garden. The deer informs the gathering that Parul’s life is in danger as Mallicka wants to kill her with the help of Uibaba. The animals decide to stop Mallicka.
 
 The journey of Parul and Raghav in the tunnel gets tougher as they go further. Seeing the devastating lava, Parul and Raghav decide to go back. But they realise that the way is already covered with molten lava. Suddenly they see a narrow lane though which only one person can pass through. Raghav forces Parul to go ahead and save herself but she isn’t ready. They decide to go together.
 
 Raghav is afraid that they won’t survive. Raghav takes Parul on his back and crawls through it. They successfully go out.
 
 Mallicka needs to reach Chandanban before 2 p.m. The animals are determined to stop Mallicka. Two tigers stop their way.
 
 Parul and Raghav reach a place where there is a giant door. They open the door but it appears to be the end of the world. They get upset as there is no other way to escape.
 
 Raghav asks her to go back. Parul gets emotional and jumps off the cliff. Raghav rescues her. She is determined to jump again as she wants to rescue Champa.
 
 Parul suddenly remembers the clue   had told her. She realizes that it is an illusion. She wants to jump again and asks Raghav to go back.
 
 Raghav doesn’t want to leave Parul alone. They jump and fall in to a mysterious place.
 
 Seeing the tigers, the servants run away. The animals take the carriage on their back and start pulling it towards the wrong direction. Mallicka had no idea about the incident. Suddenly she realises that the carriage is moving at high speed. She wants to stop it and casts a spell.
 
 Parul and Raghav reach the beautiful garden where Champa flower (Parul’s brother) has blossomed. But they are not sure about which way to proceed further. 
 
