AHMEDABAD: Annoyed at seeing everyone around  ,   said that the judiciary alone can’t bring the country out of corruption without a change in the mindset of the   and citizens, though many people look at it as the last hope for redress.

 The HC lamented rampant corruption prevailing and questioned whether Indians will continue to tolerate this state of affairs even so many years after Independence and who is to bear the blame? 
 
 “The political wing or the state would turn around and say you are to blame because Indians across the board are corrupt and this is a mindset which no one can change. Corruption starts at the top and finally trickles down to the little man working in the public utility services,” said Justice J B Pardiwala, while asking the government to inquire into graft charges against an officer.
 
 The HC vented its frustration while directing an inquiry on Wednesday into allegations of corruption by a district registrar in Surat, who disqualified a candidate for six years after there was a tie in the election to a cooperative society.
 
 The judge delved further into the issue, “I am of the view that blame attaches fully to the lack of governance by those entrusted by the people, with the duty and responsibility of steering the country through various policies which would not engender corruption, but would negate it.”
 
 The court further said that the judiciary alone cannot be an answer to corruption, “The last couple of decades have seen a radical change in the role of the higher judiciary in India. The higher judiciary has been looked upon by sections of the public as the last hope for redress against public and governmental failure. How much can one single institution do if the mindset of the political wing of the state and bureaucracy, who are at the top of the pyramid, as well as the mindset of the people of the country, does not change?”
 
 Before turning to the present scenario of corruption in India, the judge cited Kautilya’s Arthashastra to describe corruption by government employees.
 
  “Just as fish moving under water cannot possibly be found out either as drinking or not drinking water, so government servants employed in government work cannot be found out while taking money,” said the court. The court also spoke about the Rig Veda and the Bible for their verses which point at corruption as a prevalent evil even in their time.
 
 
