KOLKATA: Dada gate ta khule din na, amar bus ta chole jachchhe (Please open the gate, else I will miss my bus).

  of Patuli was heard pleading with a traffic volunteer at the   crossing. The employee of Sambhunath Pandit Hospital was in a tearing hurry to take a bus back home after work on Monday evening. She was complaining as the   was “delaying” her travel back home.
 
 As the cops conducted the trial run of boom barrier to stop jaywalking, choas ruled Exide crossing on Day I. From inquisitive pedestrians — who flocked to see what it was all about — to impatient ones arguing with traffic volunteers and those getting hit by the barrier when it dropped, pedestrians seemed confused with the new mechanism.
 
 “What the hell is it?” yelled a youth who had just ducked into a plate of momo at a food stall near the boom barrier opposite Haldiram. Unaware of it, he was standing dangerously close to it when its arm came crashing down on his plate. The plate fell and youth went back swearing never to come to the stall again.
 
 “Ektu shore daraben, nahole matha fete jaabe (Stand clear of the barrier else you might get hurt),” the stall owner kept warning his customers for the rest of the evening.
 
 Though a handful patiently waited for the drop gate to open, the majority tried to sneak past it. “I cannot afford to wait for the gate to open as I am in a hurry to catch a bus back home,” said   of Tollygunge who did not mind passing under the barrier when it was closed.
 
 “It is a great initiative. But the traffic police need to close those small gaps in the pedestrian guards from where many are managing to get onto the road,” said Tapas Das, senior manager with a power transmission company. Unable to rein in the disgruntled pedestrians, traffic volunteers were also seen directing them to gaps in pedestrians guards. “Ki korbo, oneke rege jachchhe (What can I do? Many are getting angry,” said a traffic volunteer.
 
 Officers of the traffic department, however, claimed the first day of the trial run was more or less smooth. “Initially, there were some minor glitches in the synchronisation but even that smoothened as the day progressed. We will continue the trial run as part of sensitization for some more time. The teething troubles should also be fixed in due course,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. Police will plug the small gaps through which the pedestrians are sneaking past and will start prosecuting those trying to cross the road while the drop gate is closed.
 
 
