Bhopal: The state cabinet is set to give in-principle approval to transit-oriented development (TOD) policy. The measure, which comes ahead of new master plan for  , would allow increased floor area ratio (FAR) in new and existing buildings along select locations near public transport nodes. 

 Speaking at first apex conference of smart city CEOs held in Bhopal, urban administration and housing development principal secretary   informed that the TOD policy would be placed before the state cabinet for its approval.
 
 The measure is likely to have a bearing on land use and planning. Broadly, TODs would result in coordinated planning policies implemented consistently at varying geographic scales-regional, city, corridor, neighbourhoods. Sources said increase in existing differential floor-space index ( ) would be permitted in locations which are no more than six minutes walking distance away from a public transport node. Once approved, the TOD would have a substantial bearing on cities like Bhopal the master plan of which are in the works.
 
 Agencies like   ( ) would identify nodes or location, where more commercial and residential would be permitted. That is in theory. Experts indicate connecting with public transport is aimed at increasing ridership and lessening dependence on private transport.
 
 FSI in areas near the 26 km BRTS in Bhopal is already fairly populated. In 2016, a policy backed by the   consultation to promote use accessibility, connectively, non-motorised transport in the city or TOD was envisaged. 
 
 The top UAHD officials had indicated Bhopal's new master plan would focus on TOD. Real estate development around 81 proposed metro stations and 573 bus stops would benefit. TOD envisages integration of transit and land use. 
 
 TOD would result in a policy for planned organic development.   development plan would promote vertical development in TOD zones. A benchmark for the same would be walk from a residence to nearby market (or bus stop, metro station etc.) be reduced to 3 to 5 minutes.
 
 
