CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government agreed to meet the deficit of the  , which is of the order of Rs 17.94 crore, besides providing annual increment of 6% on Rs 27 crore. The state government representative conveyed this to the   (BoF) on Tuesday. However, the government wants to give the grant, which is around Rs 46.56 crore, in instalments. 

 Sources said  , principal secretary, finance, Punjab government, who was in the BoF, said Panjab University is a premier institute and the government does not want it to face a crisis. Therefore, he said, the government has decided to provide the deficit the University has been demanding from the Punjab government, besides an annual increment of 6% on Rs 27 crore. However, Tiwari said Punjab government does not have surplus funds and in order to meet the requirements of the University, the government will have to divert funds from some other head. On the seventh pay commission, he said once estimates are made, the Punjab government would also provide financial assistance for the implementation of the seventh pay commission.
 
 The University held an emergency BoF meeting on Tuesday to discuss the issue of financial assistance to the Panjab University by Punjab government. Strongly against the proposal of PU giving affiliation to Haryana colleges to get financial assistance in return, Punjab government said it is open to increasing grant-in-aid for the University through a mutually consultative process. Panjab University, in an affidavit filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court on February 7, 2018, stated that the deficit of Rs 17.94 crore should be met by the Punjab government.
 
 According to the affidavit filed, the University has total uncovered deficit of Rs 46.31 crore and has managed to cover Rs 28 crore by enhancing its internal income. However, the remaining deficit needs to be met by the Punjab government since the MHRD, in its communication sent to the University on June 17, 2017, had directed that the uncovered deficit should be met by the Punjab government and University's internal income.
 
 Sources said finance development officer, PU, Vikram Nayyar, met director, treasury, Punjab government, Abhinav Trikha on January 23, 2018 to provide details of funds required by the University from Punjab government. Sources also said the liability on account of implementation of the seventh pay commission has again been submitted to the   on February 6, 2018.
 
 
