RAJKOT: With installation of the   at Ghogha in   on Wednesday the final stage for rollout of cargo service through sea route between Ghogha and Dahej in Bharuch has been completed. However, due to siltation at the Dahej terminal, the cargo service cannot commence till the access silt is dredged out.

 Linkspan is a crucial component of a Ro-Ro service as it works as a bridge for trucks and cars to reach the vessel. It helps overcome the tidal variation.   where the ferry service is offered has the second-highest tidal variation in the world.
 
 The Ro-Ro ferry service has been suspended since past 20 days for installation of the 96m long and 7.5m wide linkspan weighing 820 tonne at Ghogha. The Ro-Ro vessel currently has capacity to ferry nearly 300 passengers on weekdays and the number can rise to 500 on weekends.
 
 The linkspan installed at Ghogha is considered to be the longest and heaviest in the country and will require four more days of adjustment before cargo can be transported through it. 
 
 Devendra Manral, CMD of Indigo Seaways, the ferry service operator said, “GMB (Gujarat Maritime Board) has to speed up dredging at Dahej to begin cargo service and resume passenger ferry operations. Till this work is completed we can’t give a date to resume the service.” 
 
 A senior   official told TOI that the capital dredging at Ghogha and Dahej will be completed by the end of March. "After capital dredging, the draught at both terminals will increase to five metre which is required for the Ro-Pax vessel. The siltation however does not affect the Ro-Ro passenger vessel service."
 
 With installation of the linkspan, passengers do not need to walk to get into the ferry. Buses can now go to the gangway of ferry. The road for cargo handling has also been cleared. A special Korean vessel with capacity to carry passengers as well as cargo is likely to arrive in India by March 1, said Manral. 
 
 “As soon as GMB gives us clearance, the cargo service can begin,” Manral added. 
 
 The Ro-Pax vessel will be able to carry 70 trucks and 25-30 cars. It will have three decks, two lower decks for trucks, buses and cars and the upper deck for passengers.
 
 
