Search teams on Thursday retrieved the bodies of two students of ECS Matriculation School, Chennai, from the Katarkhadak reservoir near Mulshi, around 40km from Pune, confirming fears that the two boys had also drowned with a classmate in a summer camp calamity.

 Rescuers had on Wednesday failed to find any trace of Santhosh Ganesh and   and declared the pair missing after locals fished out the body of Danish Raja. The three boys, all 13 years old, were part of a group of 20 students on a week-long summer camp that an NGO had organised on behalf of the school.
 
 The Pune rural police on Thursday booked four people — an organiser and a local director of the NGO and two teachers — under IPC Section 304A (causing death due to negligence).
 
 Parents and relatives blamed the organisers and the teachers for the deaths, saying they should not have allowed students to enter the lake. “None of the [boys who drowned] or the teachers knew how to swim,” Danish Raja’s uncle   said, adding that “the situation could have been very different” if the “organisers had guards or swimmers” at hand. “We will take legal action against the organisers and teachers,” he said.
 
 Saravana Kumar’s father M Sundar, who works in a sweet shop in Chennai, said negligence by the teachers led to the death of his son. He described Saravana as a “brilliant” student. “The teachers told us that the camp was free for students who performed well academically,” said Santhosh Kumar’s father Ganesh, an autorickshaw driver. “What I will do now?”
 
 A team of district officials and   fished out the bodies of Santhosh Ganesh and Saravana Kumar after a four-hour search on Thursday afternoon.
 
 “District disaster management committee rescuers found Saravana’s body around 1pm,” Paud police inspector   said. “NDRF men later found the body of Santhosh.”
 
 The organisers informed the police that they had sent the 17 other participants in the camp back to Chennai.
 
 The local police promised to carry out a detailed probe. “We will conduct a thorough investigation before deciding on the next course of action,” said sub-divisional police officer (Dehu Road)  .
 
 “The organisers and teachers were responsible for the safety of the students at the summer camp,” Madgulkar said. “It appears that the teachers and organisers did not take proper safety precautions.”
 
 
