MUMBAI: In a bonanza for residents and   of   buildings in the   city, the state government has increased the base floor space index (FSI) from 1.33 to 1.83. This additional 0.5   will be charged a premium by the government. The premium will be 60% of the ready reckoner rate of that locality.

 All   constructed after 1960 are non-cessed buildings. The additional FSI will be available for all such buildings from Colaba to Sion-Mahim in the island city except cessed properties and cluster redevelopment schemes, which are already entitled to high FSI.
 
 The new proposal is part of the Draft Development Plan-(2034), but the government has chosen to modify the 1991 Development Plan that is currently in force.
 
 “It indicates that the government is trying to revive the real estate market that is in the doldrums and also earn revenue at the same time,” said sources.
 
 The process for modifying the DP has also been cut short. The state urban development department has issued the draft notification under section 37 (1aa) of the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act that allows the government to directly call for objections/suggestions, hold a public hearing without involving the BMC which is the planning authority for the city.
 
 “The entire process can now be completed within a month from the date of the draft notification and the final notification can be issued immediately,” said sources.
 
 The UDD has proposed selling the 0.5 fsi for a premium to be charged at 60% of the Ready Reckoner Rate. The premium that is collected for additional fsi is currently split equally between the government and the BMC.
 
 However, in this case the premium will be split four ways ___25% to the government, 25% to fund the Dharavi Redevelopment Project, 25% to fund the Bandra-Versova sea-link and 25% to the BMC. In effect the government will take 75% of the revenue from the sale of this fsi.
 
 “The BMC will of course file its objection on the loss of revenue. The BMC is funding the coastal road project from the premium obtained for the fungible fsi which is 35% of the Built Up Area for residential buildings and 20% of the BUA for commercial projects,” said a source.
 
 Yomesh Rao, architect and member of Practising Engineers, Architects and Town Planners Association (PEATA) said the draft notification modifying the 1991 DP is ``mystifying’’ as the Draft DP-2034 is expected to be finalised in the next 2-3 months. "The final notification will take at least 4-6 months and by then the DP-2034 will be in place. Unless the new DP is likely to be delayed," he said.
 
 What Is FSI?
 
 FSI (Floor Space Index) refers to the buildable area on a plot of land. An FSI of 1 means that the area of construction should be equal to the area of the plot—for example, a plot of 10,000 sq ft can only have a built-up area of 10,000 sq ft and no more.
 
 What Is TDR?
 
 The TDR (transfer of development rights) policy was launched in 1991 to decongest the island city. Owners whose plots were reserved for playgrounds, markets and gardens, or whose land was needed for road-widening, could surrender their land to the BMC and get an equivalent amount of space in the suburbs. In 1997, slum TDR was introduced. However, TDR holders can build only north of the slum scheme.
 
 
