JAIPUR : Rajasthan High Court stayed the recruitment of second grade teachers 2016 against the vacancies reserved for Special Backward Classes/More Backward Classes.

 The single bench of Justice VS Siradhana issued notices to RPSC and the Board of secondary education on a petition by Balbeer Gocher.
 
 The petitioner said the RPSC on July 7 2016 advertised for the post of second grade teachers for seven subjects including Sanskrit. Reservation for special backward classes was reflected along with the number of vacancies but neither last cut off has been declared nor has reservation for SBC (now More Backward Classes) been accorded.
 
 Grade-III teachers’ hiring stayed
 
 Jaipur: The High Court restrained the RPSC from going ahead with the recruitment of third grade teachers 2016 as it was alleged that the high court order of specialists in respective subjects be given appointment has not been followed.
 
 The single bench of Justice VS Siradhana issued the order on a petition by Satish Kumar and others.
 
 The petitioner said the merit list of teachers for Maths and Science for teacher grade III level II is being combined together against the amended notification issued August 29 last year to the Rajasthan Panchayati Raj Rules 266(3). 
 
 The notification provided that teachers for different subjects would be required certain subjects as optional subjects in their graduation. For instance teacher of Mathematics, a candidate must have passed graduation or equivalent examination with Maths. Similarly for a science teacher, candidate must have passed graduation or equivalent with at least one subject as an optional subject. 
 
 But in the present case both merit lists of Maths and Science teachers are being combined based on REET, said the petitioner.
 
 Police commissioner summoned
 
 Jaipur: High court asked Jaipur City Police Commissioner   be present in the court on Wednesday at 10.30 pm.
 
 The single bench of   issued the order on a petition by Jitendra Agarwal in a fake land document case seeking fair investigation.
 
 The complainant had petitioned DCP West for change of investigation in the case from Jhotwara SHO to some other police station on March 19 2017. The office of the DCP issued the order transferring the case to Harmada police station but the order was signed by only ASI and the investigation was still carried on by the Jhotwara SHO. 
 
 
