PATIALA: Power generation in Punjab, Haryana and   may face problems in near future because coal stocks are citically low at thermal plants and water level unseasonably low in reservoirs of hydropower stations in the region. 

 If a solution is not found in near future, the three states’ dependence on purchasing power from outside may increase in the next few days. According to the latest report by the   (CEA), coal stocks in all three private thermal plants of Punjab, Khedar and   thermal plants of Haryana, and four thermal plants of Rajasthan are in “critical position”.
 
 The coal stock at the 1,980MW Talwandi Sabo thermal plant would last three days, while the stock at the 1,400MW Rajpura thermal plant is expected to not last more than six days. In Haryana, the 1,200MW Khedar thermal plant has nil stock, while the 920MW Panipat thermal plant has coal left for two days. In Rajasthan, the 1,500MW Suratgarh thermal plant and Adani’s 1,320MW Kawai thermal plant have coal stock of three days. The 1,240MW Kota and 1,660MW Chhabra plants have stocks which last for two days and one day, respectively.
 
 Water level at Ranjit Sagar Dam is 15 metres less than the corresponding time last year. While it was 514.59m last year, it was 499.56 when last measured for the CEA report. Water in the Bhakra reservoir is short by about 4 metres when compared to last year. At Bhakra reservoir, the water level is 463.24m. 
 
 However, officials in the   (PSPCL) said there was not much to worry about hydropower stations as water level would increase once ice starts melting in the upper reaches of Himachal Pradesh in peak summer. 
 
 Last year in September, the Rajpura thermal plant had to shut down one of its two units due to coal shortage. PSPCL chairman and managing director A Venu Prasad said they had made arrangements for additional power and there would be no shortage to meet demand. 
 
 As per guidelines of the CEA, thermal plants should have at least 21 days of coal stock before monsoon. As once rainy season approaches, mining of coal reduces due to waterlogging in open-cast mines.
 
 
