NEW DELHI: As part of its exercise to monitor performance of subordinate judiciary, the government has analysed the data uploaded on the national judicial data grid ( ) and found that many subordinate   across the country aren’t updating daily progress of cases on the website. 

 At least 1,000 district and subordinate courts aren’t updating data regularly although this analyses is also crucial to monitoring the performance of judges of the lower courts. 
 
 In order to bring transparency in judicial functions and reduce pendency, the government with the help of the   had started online portal NJDG a few years ago, making it mandatory for all subordinate and district courts to upload daily case status on it. The NJDG gives daily status report of each court on cases filed, disposed of, under objection and status of those pending for more than two years, five years or 10 years. The NJDG also has details of cases filed by women and senior citizens in respect of each of these courts and the progress of proceedings on a daily basis. 
 
 However, a recent analysis by the government found that many of these courts in several states have not been updating data. Leading the list of defaulters is   where 184 district and subordinate courts have not been filing the required data on the NJDG as on January 5, 2018, according to the analyses prepared by a team at the law ministry. 
 
 About 84 of these courts have not updated their records for more than a month when it is mandatory to upload status reports on a daily basis. As part of its ongoing implementation of the second phase of e-courts project, monitored by the SC ecommittee, the government has started giving unique IDs to all judges-—more than 16,000 in the subordinate judiciary and 650 in the higher judiciary. 
 
 Judges with unique IDs will have to specify the nature of proceedings on a daily basis in the online log sheet, whether he delivered judgment, reserved it or no business was transacted. In the new software   2.0, the judge will have to mention reasons if no business was transacted. Such details specific to a judge would help the higher judiciary in considering promotion and elevation of the lower court judges to the higher judiciary. 
 
 At present it is difficult to track past performances of a judge once he or she is transferred to a different court.
 
