KOLKATA: A city-based girl, who spent a year at the state’s biggest mental hospital in 2014, found love and a fresh lease of life through Facebook. Her partner, a two-wheeler mechanic in Punjab, proposed her on the social networking site and by July 2016 the duo tied the knot. Twenty nine-year-old Atasi Karmakar’s unusual love story is now being portrayed in a documentary that will be screened on February 20 at   as part of the ‘Love in the Time of Madness’ package.

 Atasi completed her schooling from Sealdah’s St Paul’s Mission’s school before pursing English honours at Bangabasi Morning College. The relationship with her family turned sour in 2009 after the death of her father, an ex-employee of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation. In 2014, Atasi’s family got her admitted to the hospital because of alleged violent behaviour — a trait that Atasi refutes.
 
  
  
 
 
 She speaks fluent English and describes love as her “elixir of life”. “Though I did nothing special on Valentine’s Day, I know I wouldn’t have existed today had I not found love,” she said from her Bhogpur residence in Punjab.
 
 According to Rishita Mukherjee, advocacy officer of Anjali   Rights Organisation that helped in rehabilitating Atasi, “She spent a year at the Calcutta Pavlov Hospital. Irrespective of her clinical diagnosis, her mental health condition was severely affected by her familial turbulence even after her recovery. Love healed her.”
 
 The story of Atasi finding her love has all the ingredients of a Yashraj romance, down to the last detail. Incidentally, ‘Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge’ is her favourite film. Strangely, she did fall for a Punjabi and now lives in the vicinity of mustard fields near Jalandhar. According to director Putul Mahmood, “It seemed to me that nobody really believed in love stories anymore. When I met Atasi and heard the story of her love with Sandesh Kumar, I was amazed. Here was love in the time of ‘madness’; love with all its magic and the power to transform. It had given her the wings to fly out of the prison of mental illness and family oppression. Atasi’s love was a fairy tale and I realised that this tale needed to be told.”
 
 After being discharged from the hospital, Atasi found a job as a distributor of health product. During that time, she met someone who went by the name Deep Harry on Facebook. One thing led to the other and soon the duo was talking to each other regularly. That’s when Atasi learnt that Deep’s real name was Sandesh Kumar Nanglu. A Punjabi from Jalandhar’s Bhogpur village, Sandesh had migrated to Saudi Arabia to work as a car mechanic there.
 
