JAIPUR:   seems to have caught the fancy of tourists in the city. Since February 2015 when the monuments (beginning with Amber fort) started opening their gates for night viewing, the segment has attracted footfalls of 12.2 lakh and revenues of Rs 12 crore which was non-existent earlier.

 The gains have buoyed the state government as it is now looking to expand the facilities to several places that hold tourists’ interest. Historical gates like Sanganeri gate, New gate, Ajmeri gate, Tripolia gate, Chandpole gate and   have been taken up as part of the new exercise. Chaura Rasta, Tripolia Bazaar and Johri Bazaar, which are a must for tourists, have also been added to the night tourism plan.
 
 Façade lighting and illumination of Chaura Rasta, Tripolia gate, and New gate have already been done.   department is currently working on the Tripolia Bazaar, Johri Bazaar, Sanganeri gate, Ajmeri gate, Chandpole gate and Hawa Mahal for illuminating the facades with theme-based lighting.
 
 “We will complete the work before August this year. The response to night tourism has been very encouraging. Last year, we revamped the Vidyadhar Ka Bagh and now it is attracting lot of visitors. Plans are afoot to illuminate Sisodiya Garden that has a lot potential for night tourism,” said Hridesh Sharma, director, Archaeology and Museums, Rajasthan.
 
 In the evenings, the 350-year-old Vidyadhar Ka Bagh with its lush green garden, plantation near walls and beautiful fountains, sparkles with yellow and blue lights. The garden is one of Jaipur’s best-preserved ones located in the heart of Jaipur.
 
 “It was built in the memory of Jaipur’s chief architect  . Nestled in the lap of a valley, the garden offers a panoramic view of the city and is the pride of Jaipur’s rich heritage and culture. It was opened for night tourism in July last year,” said Sharma.
 
 Monuments and museums like Amber Fort and Albert Hall used to be closed for visitors after 5 pm. People coming to the city for corporate meetings and conference purposes could not visit these places after the day’s engagement.
 
 “Jaipur has become a preferred destination for MICE (meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions) tourism in the country. During the day, they get busy in the events. In the evenings, when they went out to see the histocial places, the monuments would remain closed. Now, that has changed. They can not only see the monuments but also take part in the various cultural programmes held in these places,” added Sharma.
 
 Photo caption: Fascinating Frame: Night view of Roop Niwas, Vidyadhar Ka Bagh
 
 
