Vadodara: The biggest housing scheme for the urban poor under a public-private partnership mode at Sanjaynagar in Warasiya area is mired in a big row. 

 The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has issued notices to the contractor, who has taken up the project, alleging irregularities. The notices were issued in December regarding the construction of a storm water drain and the change in the stakes in the joint venture company formed by the contractor who bagged the project. The joint venture (JV) consortium of Narayan Realty Pvt Ltd, Sai Ruchi and DMC Infra Developers had bagged the project.
 
 As many as 2,637 houses will be constructed at Kishanwadi as a part of the project. The housing scheme will come up under the Pradhan Mantri Aavas Yojana (PMAY) at Sanjaynagar in Warasiya. Houses of 30 square metre size are provided to slum dwellers or those staying in unauthorised settlements will be provided at the site.
 
 The houses that will come up at the site include 1,841 units for residents of Sanjaynagar itself. The remaining houses will be used by the civic body for the resettlement of residents of other such pockets in the city.
 
 The tender brought out by the civic body had made it mandatory for the realtor taking up the project to make 1,841 houses for Sanjaynagar residents and another parcel of 698 houses. Beyond this the developer could either pay premium to the civic body or construct additional houses. The consortium had proposed to make an additional 98 units for the project as premium for its bid.
 
 What made VMC issue notices to the bidders was the fact that the realtor wanted the VMC to make a storm water drain passing through the plot on which the project is to come up. According to the tender conditions, it was the contractor’s responsibility to do so. Sources said that a notice was issued in this regard following which the contractor agreed to construct the storm water drain.
 
 Along with the notice for the storm water drain, another notice regarding the stake holding in the JV was sent to the contractors. According to VMC officials, at the time of bidding Narayan Realty had a majority stake of 51% in the joint venture. The company is a realty group that has been involved with several sites in the city. “It was on the basis of its strength that the technical bid of the JV was approved as it was stated that the lead partner in the JV was Narayan Realty,” said an official.
 
 Subsequently, the stake holding pattern in the JV was changed and Narayan Realty held only 15 per cent stake in it with DMC Infra Developers and Sai Ruchi holding the remaining stake. Sources said that this was even intimated to the civic body. The company was awarded the contract in May 2017 with Narayan Realty as a major partner. But in June itself the new JV agreement was made and even presented to the VMC. 
 
 
