1. Karanj is the third of the six Scorpene-class   being built by MDL under the Project 75 programme of  . It will undergo rigorous tests for the next one year before it is commissioned.

  
  
 2. The first one,  , a diesel-electric attack submarine was commissioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on December 14 last year. The second one, INS Khandari, was launched on January 12 this year is currently undergoing sea trials.
 
  3. The Scorpene submarines are a primary modernization requirement of the Indian Navy, which is currently faced with an ageing submarine fleet, and that too when the Chinese navy has a growing presence in the Indian Ocean.
 
  4. The technology being used for construction of the Scorpene class submarines has ensured superior stealth features such as advanced acoustic silencing techniques, low radiated noise levels and hydrodynamically optimized shape. These stealth features give it an invulnerability, unmatched by most submarine.
 
  5. Karanj, third in the Scropene series is designed to operate in all theatres, including the tropics. It is provided with all means and communications to ensure interoperability with other components of a naval task.
 
  
  
 6. It can launch a crippling attack on the enemy using precision guided weapons. Such attacks can be launched with both torpedoes and tube launched anti-ship missiles, whilst underwater or on surface.
 
  
  
 7. MDL has the contract for the construction and transfer of technology for six Scorpene submarines. The submarines are being built in collaboration with French shipbuilding major Naval Group (formerly DCNS).
 
  8. MDL believes the Scorpene submarines can undertake various missions such as anti-surface warfare, anti-submarine warfare, intelligence gathering, mine laying and area surveillance.
 
 
 
 
  9. A Shore Integration Facility has been developed at MDL for integration and simulation of various equipments of the   combat system for which there was no facility available in the country.
 
  10. The Scorpene deal for India was signed in October 2005 and the first submarine was to be delivered by 2012, but due to inordinate delays and teething problems it could not happen. However MDL denies this charge.
 
 
 
 
