CHANDIGARH: If you ever happened to walk by the Sector 45-A park or the rear boundary wall of the housing board flats facing a scrap market, you are familiar with its dominant   of urine.

 The boundary wall of Ajit Karam Singh International Public School (AKSIPS), which stretches up to the tubewell area towards the market near hotel Surya, was also until recently washed in urine. Another spot along a dumpster outside the park beside Pracheen Jwalamukhi Temple has transformed into urinary platform of the neighborhood, since there are no public washrooms in the locality, even though the request is pending for more than a decade. 
 
 Facing the main road is a half-a-kilometre row of over 200 shops of scrap dealers, whose 1,000-plus workers have no public toilet. An overwhelming number of shopkeepers, mechanics, their clients, and visitors are forced to urinate in the open. Some shopkeepers over time have managed to find obscure defecation spots as well, to keep their privacy and dignity while answering the call of nature.
 
 Chaman Sharma, a   resident, said: “Can you imagine a place so filthy? Every wall that you see around you, every corner you look at carries the horrible smell of urine. Even The paint on these walls has turned yellow with vivid marks of urination. A few hundred people urinate here in the day, but they have no choice? Where else can they go?”
 
 The pavement of a new residential park in Sector 45-A is a worst-hit spot, where even the park railings and gates etc are covered in urinal residue. “It is disgusting to see people urinate in the front of the park. Sometimes, they are in the sight of walkers,” said  , a nearby resident. 
 
 Many shopkeepers have over time built relationships with hotel owners for the privilege of using their toilets in emergency, but others are forced to paint the walls. “I have been working in this market for almost 15 years but in my memory, not even a single toilet has ever been built here. Is this Modi’s Swachh Bharat?,” asked  , a scrap dealer.
 
 The residents from the first and the second floors of the housing board flats complain of foul odour along with breeding of mosquitoes. “You can imagine how we feel when we see dozens of men urinating on the rear wall of our house. The smell is disgusting,” said a woman who refused to give her name. Many shopkeepers said proposal for toilet in the Sector 45-A park met opposition from the   residents who feared it will dirty the park. This was almost five months ago.”
 
 For alternative site, the shopkeepers suggested a vacant spot on the triangular pavement beside the tubewell area in the market, but to no avail. “The approval for three toilets—for Sector 45-A, B, and C—was secured. While, the toilets in 45-C and B came up, the toilet here in   45-A was stalled by the housing board colony residents,” said local councillor Kanwar Rana. Aproposal for seven toilets at the market is with the administration.
 
 
