BEIJING: The escalating confrontation between   and Beijing inched closer to all-out trade war on Wednesday after China threatened retaliation against key US exports. The conflict, companies worry, could set back the global economic recovery.

 
 On Wednesday, China said it would not be bullied by the US imposing punitive taxes on its products. The US has listed 1,300 Chinese goods, worth $50 billion, on which it plans to impose hefty tariff. Beijing issued a $50 billion list of US goods, including soybeans and small aircraft, for possible tariff hikes in an escalating dispute.
 
  
  
  
 China's tax agency gave no date for the 25% increase to take effect and said that will depend on what President   does about US plans to raise duties on a similar amount of Chinese goods.
 
 China said it was keeping atab on US exports and would start taking actions the moment Washington implemented its plan to curb Chinese exports. Beijing issued a list of 106 items of US exports that it would tax heavily if the US pressed the trigger again.
 
 "China strongly condemns and opposes the US tariff proposals and is ready to take reciprocal measures on US products," China's ministry of commerce said shortly after the US announcement.
 
 Chinese ministry of foreign affairs spokesman Lu Kang denounced the US action as "protectionist". "We have the confidence and capability to respond to any US protectionist measures," Lu Kang said. "The US action has recklessly disregarded 40 years of China-US economic cooperation, which mutually beneficial and win-win in nature. It has recklessly disregarded the outcry from the business community and interests of consumers."
 
 "It serves neither China's interest, nor US interest, even less the interest of the global economy," Lu added.
 
 The US suffers from a trade deficit of $375 billion with China, although Trump has quoted a figure of $500 billion.
 
 Companies and experts have expressed concern growing global economic activity might cool if other governments are prompted to raise their own import barriers. The dispute "may compel countries to pick sides," said Weiliang Chang of Mizuho Bank. Economists say if higher costs cause inflation to accelerate, central banks could be forced to raise interest rates more quickly, which would put another drag on economic growth.
 
