CHENNAI: The   is set to draw up a third master plan for the Chennai metropolitan area ( ) whose size is to increase sevenfold. A consultant will be appointed to unveil a blueprint for the plan area comprising 8,878 sqkm spread over Chennai, Kancheepuram and   districts, besides parts of Vellore district, making it the second largest urban cluster in the country after the National Capital Region.

 
 The exercise will involve revising the existing master plan that now covers an area of 1,189 sqkm, having been expanded from the original 457 sqkm. “The revision is essential in the light of expansion of the Chennai metropolitan area. We are preparing the terms of reference for the consultant,” an official told TOI. The second master plan, which came into force in September 2008, was to be in effect till 2026. The consultant would survey land use, spatial planning, infrastructure and transport facilities before finalising his report.
 
 
 
 Preparation of the modified/fresh second master plan began in 2005, but the merger of additional areas on the outskirts of the city has necessitated its overhaul, creating another incorporating revised land use and development regulations. The preparation of the third plan, the official said, would be a departure from the usual practice in that the first two were drawn up by   officials. “This is the first time a consultant would be roped in as they are expected to have the latest technology for the purpose,” the official said. An acute shortage of manpower in the planning authority is also cited as a reason.
 
 The consultant appointed would survey the land use, spatial planning, infrastructure and transport facilities, before coming up with the final document. Sources refused to confirm whether a global consultant would be invited. After the housing and urban development department notified the proposal for expansion of the CMA on January 22, the government, in April, completed three public meetings in Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur on the expansion.
 
 
