CHENNAI: Infuriated over the misleading statements made by self-styled godman Nithyananda, the Madras high court on Monday warned of issuing arrest warrant against him if he fails to rectify the wrong by Wednesday. 

 Justice R Mahadevan made the observation while hearing a plea moved by M Jagathalapradhapan of   seeking a direction to the government to take suitable and appropriate action against Nithyananda and protect the Madurai mutt. He also wanted the court to permanently prevent Nithyananda from interfering in the affairs of the mutt.
 
 After noticing that the   has failed to rectify the misleading statements in his affidavit even after repeated warnings, Justice Mahadevan directed the jurisdictional police present in the court to arrest Nithyananda and produce him before the court on Tuesday. 
 
 "He is not above all, only law prevails over anything in this court. Get the warrant from the court registry and arrest him," the judge said to the police personnel present in the court.
 
 After the judge posted the case to Wednesday for further hearing, and passed on to next cases, the counsel for Nithyananda made repeated requests to spare his arrest for one day and assured that all the mistakes would be rectified by Wednesday. 
 
 Conceding to the request, Justice Mahadevan simply adjourned the matter without issuing directions to arrest. 
 
 Earlier, the court also ordered seizure of a cellphone used by one of the disciples of the godman, who was found passing messages about the proceedings from the court. 
 
 "Who permitted you to record court proceedings? To whom were you sending message about the proceeding? Don't think that this court is a playground. I will see that your ashram is vanished. Hundreds of complaints are pending against the ashram," Justice Mahadevan said. 
 
 The judge then directed police to secure the person and verify whether he had passed any information about the proceedings or recorded. The cellphone used by the disciple was directed to be kept in the custody of the court registry until further orders. 
 
 In December 2017, the court passed interim orders restraining the godman and his disciples from entering the Madurai Aadheenam till further orders. 
 
 During the course if hearing, the court found that Nithyananda had made false and misleading statements through an affidavit. Though the court warned the counsel for the godman for such acts and directed him to file an affidavit admitting the mistake and make proper changes to the statement, the godman failed to comply. 
 
 Noting that he would suo motu initiate criminal contempt against Nithyananda, the court posted the plea to Wednesday for further hearing. 
 
 
 
 
