BHOPAL: Even as the promoters of Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s controversial movie ‘Padmaavat’ have sought intervention of the   against its ban announced by various state governments,   home minister   added fuel to the fire by going a step ahead and announcing that playing songs from the film is also a gross violation of rules in Madhya Pradesh.

 “The film has been banned by the state as was announced by the chief minister and playing songs from the film would be considered as violation of rules”, Singh told reporters, while replying to the incident in Ratlam where   members had allegedly vandalised a school after students performed the ‘Ghoomar’ song from the movie.
 
 On Monday a mob of around 20-25 people barged their way into St Paul’s School around 1.30 pm and began indulging in arson, while shouting slogans in favour of Karni Sena when a schoolgirl was performing a dance recital on the controversial song from the movie. Police said that four persons were arrested in the incident, while a manhunt has been launched to arrest the other suspects.
 
 The home minister said that such incidents could not be justified and those who were opposing the film should have lodged a complaint with the police instead of taking law into their own hands.
 
 “If people opposing the film wanted to raise objections, they should have informed police or filed a complaint at the police station. Those taking law into their own hands will face strict legal action”, said Singh.
 
 The home minister said that police will soon arrest all those who were involved in vandalising the school in Ratlam and stringent action will be taken against them as several students were present during the attack.
 
 Expressing surprise over the home minister’s statement, senior lawyer   said how the government can ban a ‘Padmaavat’ song in Madhya Pradesh.
 
 “The song is being played by various radio stations and even people are watching the same on social media and video channels. Government can do nothing to stop people from playing the song”, Gupta said.
 
 Taking a dig at the home minister, state   leaders said that Singh wants to ban songs from the movie in order to get political mileage and woo the Rajput voters in the state.
 
 “It is surprising that the minister was not aware that the government cannot ban radio broadcast of the song. In case of attack by vandals, will the government take action against the radio station too? This is all to garner political mileage,” said state Congress media in-charge KK Mishra.
 
