CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu has recorded 9% deficit rainfall during the northeast monsoon that officially ended on Sunday. Of the 32 districts, it was deficient in 15 districts that recorded 20% rainfall and only four districts, including Chennai, received excess rainfall of above 20%. 

 While there was a surplus of 39% during the southwest monsoon in Tamil Nadu last year, northeast monsoon failed the state, which receives more than half of its rainfall between October and December. It has received 401mm against the normal 436.2mm. Among the rain deficient districts, Pudukottai has a deficit of 48% followed by Ramanathapuram with 46%. Tirunelveli received the maximum excess of 46% followed by Kanyakumari with 25%. 
 
 "We cannot compare southwest monsoon with northeast monsoon. For Tamil Nadu it is always northeast monsoon which is important as it gives us more rainfall due to cyclone systems in the  . Last year, we had several systems between October and December, but many of them did not move into interior areas," said former IMD Cyclone Warning Centre chief S R Ramanan. 
 
 It is only due to the systems in Bay, all districts along the coast received good rainfall. "During last year's northeast monsoon, all north coastal districts like Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Cuddalore and Villupuram received excess rainfall. For example, Chennai has excess rainfall of 20%, Kancheepuram 6% and Tiruvallur 16%. Even within the north coastal districts, some areas within Chennai did not get good rainfall as the systems did not move into the land," said Ramanan. 
 
 South coastal districts like Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari received good rainfall only after   moved with good strength. "Till Cyclone Ockhi crossed Kanyakumari districts, many interior districts had rainfall deficiency. It is only due to the cyclone, many interior districts received good rainfall that includes delta districts of   and Tiruvarur," said Ramanan. 
 
 For Tamil Nadu to get good rainfall during northeast monsoon, all systems in the Bay must start from  . 
 
 "If a system starts from Gulf of Mannar, there is better chance for the systems to move towards the Tamil Nadu coast with good strength and due to this there will be good rainfall. Overall, the state has more or less normal rainfall as the deficiency is less than 20%," said Ramanan. 
 
 A look at the extremes for Chennai, the city has received good rainfall on and off each year.
 
  While in 2015, it received over 1000mm during the north east monsoon, it also set a record, when it received 24.6cm of rain in 24 hours on a single day (November 16). But, last year within a few days after start of monsoon, the city received 74% of the rainfall. But, later the rainfall was sporadic until December-end.
 
