Widespread violence rocked several districts of western Uttar Pradesh as thousands of Dalits protesting the alleged “dilution” of SCs/STs (Prevention of Atrocities) Act indulged in vandalism, arson, assault, stone-pelting and road blockades. Two protesters were killed and three other sustained serious injuries while more than 500 were detained for violence that dotted most of towns in the region.

 Two companies of   (RAF) personnel have been sent to Meerut and one company each to Agra and Hapur, a home ministry official said in Delhi. A company of RAF comprises around 100 personnel.
 
 In Meerut, the epicentre of the unrest, agitators torched   police outpost other than half a dozen UPSRTC buses, over three dozen motorcycles and several police vans. The two dead were identified as Amreesh from Muzaffarnagar and Ankur from Meerut. Both of them succumbed to bullet injuries as police opened fire to control the protesters.
 
 In Saharanpur, Bhim Army led the protests which saw markets being shut and traffic brought to a still.
 
 In Sambhal’s Chandausi town, PAC had to be called in to control the unruly mob.
 
 In Agra, thousands of agitators blocked city’s arterial roads for five hours, manhandled commuters stuck in traffic jam, pelted stones at vehicles and engaged in clashes with policemen. They climbed atop the SSP’s office and collectorate and shouted anti-Modi slogans.
 
 A total of 22 trains on the crucial Mathura-Agra route, which include trains coming from   to Delhi, were halted. India’s fastest train Gatimaan Express was also stopped by protesters. Over 200 windowpanes of Nizamuddin-Kota Jan Shatabdi Express were vandalised by agitators, but no passenger was injured. In Agra, a hotel owned by BJP’s city chief Vijay Shivhare was vandalized by agitators who also set on fire several vehicles parked outside its premises. Internet services have been suspended in several towns while schools have been closed on Tuesday in several UP districts as violence was still on in some parts.
 
 
 
 Condemning the violence in view of the Supreme Court’s order on SC/ST Act, the RSS on Monday said that it stood against all sorts of caste divisions and wanted equality among all sections of society. RSS Sahkaryawah, Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, in a statement, said that the Sangh supported the Centre's decision to file a review petition against the SC order. He said that Sangh had no role to play in SC issuing an order on SC/ST Act. Joshi also maintained that rumours about RSS involvement in the violence were baseless and highly unfortunate. Joshi also issued an appeal that the educated people should come forward to maintain an atmosphere of peace
 
 
