MADURAI:   could be one of the 115 backward districts as per the state records, but when it comes to academic success, this district always scripted envious success stories. And this time too, the students did not fail to impress, regaining the highest pass percentage the district has had for over a quarter of a century.

 Expressing happiness, R  , chief educational officer, Virudhunagar district, said that Virudhunagar has achieved something really commendable with an overall pass percentage of 97.05. This has once again made it the best performing district in the recently held plus-two examination.
 
 As many as 23,580 students passed the examination out of 24,297. This district has had more students passing out with flying colours in the government schools too with 7,685 clearing the tests from 8153 students.
 
 Ever since the ranking system for SSLC and plus-two examinations was introduced in the state for in 1980s, this district has had the distinction of being the best performing district. In the year 2013-2014, they notched up the third rank, regained the first position in 2014-2015, and went down to third in 2015-2016 before regaining the top position for next two years.
 
 “The teachers are trained to identify the weakness of the children. They pick out the slow learners give them the necessary training. The children thus identified are made to attend special coaching classes conducted in the after school hours in the evening and on Saturdays,” Swaminathan said, adding giving the best to make the slow-learners perform well is the mantra of all the teachers who put in their full efforts for it’ he said.
 
 Late Chief Minister Kamarajar was credited with revolutionizing and revamping the education in Tamil Nadu. Literacy rates improved under his regime and more government schools were opened under his government than any other. He introduced the mid-day noon meal scheme, which resulted in more children coming to school. Now, his district is living up to his dream and producing the best results in the state.
 
 Also, the big industries like Ramco and educational institutions like Kalasalingam University are made to contribute their CSR funds to the school education programme. The funds are used to supply the slow learners’ material prepared by the Tamil Nadu government free to the beneficiary students.
 
 R Mohan, headmaster of Chathirareddiarpatti Higher Secondary School in Virudhunagar, had seen all his students pass out for many years. This year, however, he is unhappy that two students out of the 74 who sat the examination had failed to make it.
 
 All the 162 girls who took the plus two examination this year at the Thangammal Periyasamy Municipal Girls Higher secondary school passed successfully. I Sumitra, a topper with 1123 on 1200 says that she wants to be a chartered accountant. 
 
 
