BENGALURU: The   withdrew on Friday a controversial memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed with a private firm, giving the latter access to a vast database comprising personal details of schoolchildren, their parents, teachers and educational institutions. While primary and secondary education minister Tanveer Sait accused department officials of trying to mislead him, principal secretary   said the   had been signed with the minister's approval. 

 The education department signed the MoU with the private firm,  , on February 3. According to the agreement, the department was the hand over data to create an interactive online platform with personal and contact details of over 1.26 crore students, their parents and 2.5 lakh teachers from government, aided and private schools. 
 
  The project drew flak from people who opposed the giving away of "sensitive data" to a private entity. As opposition grew, the minister decided to scrap the MoU. On Friday, Sait came down heavily on officials for signing such an agreement. "The draft MoU shown to me was different from the final MoU signed. The officials have tried to mislead me as they did not apprise me about the changed clauses," Sait told reporters. "There are many clauses in the MoU that go against the interests of government and public. It is wrong to share the database with a private entity. We will cancel this MoU." 
 
  Countering the minister, Rajaneesh said, "We had taken the minister's approval and a nod from the law department too before signing the MoU. Yet we are now cancelling the agreement." 
 
 Sait said he would complain to CM Siddaramaiah about the "autocratic attitude" of the top bureaucrats in his department.
 
 "The database is sensitive information and it is natural that there would be concern over it being shared with a private entity. The intention may be good, but it does not answer the concern (that data may be leaked). It is good that the MoU was cancelled finally," said educationist A P Niranjanaradhya.
 
 Rajaneesh said the intention was to bring communities together on the online platform. She denied allegations that the education department had sold the data to the private firm. She added that the database was safe with the government.
 
 Hanging clause
 
 According to the agreement, the data to be handed over to Schooglink included U- DISE (unified district information of school education), name, contact details, phone number and email addresses of all officials and employees of the education department, parents, teachers and students. Attendance details of the students too were to be given.
 
 
