Amaravati: Actor-turned-politician and Jana Sena supremo Pawan Kalyan has virtually turned the state political space into an action-packed Hollywood thriller. Kalyan has announced that he is parting ways with both the Telugu Desam Party and the Bharatiya Janata Party, the parties which he backed in the last general election. 

 Addressing the public here on Wednesday, Kalyan has also announced his intention to launch a new political party along with left parties and youth to take on both the main actors on the state’s political stage, Chandrababu Naidu and Jagan Reddy.
 
 While it might be tough for the ruling   to recover from the unexpected shocker, it is not going to help the principal opposition YSR Congress either. The ruling TDP, which is gearing to snap ties with BJP, did not anticipate that Kalyan would go to the extent of snapping ties with it. In fact, TDP leadership is trying to push the BJP into corner only with the hope that Kalyan would continue in its alliance. TDP supremo Naidu has even said that they have not gained anything from the alliance with the BJP in the last elections as they have won the local bodies elections held just before the general elections without the support of BJP. At the party strategic committee meet held recently, Naidu observed they were not going to lose anything even if they snapped ties with the BJP as the saffron party had added nothing to their strength. He, however, did not say anything about Kalyan. In fact, CM had been guardedly reacting to Kalyan’s statements on all issues including the SCS and even asked the party leaders not to go overboard to turndown Pawan’s statements till Wednesday’s meeting.
 
 With Pawan launching a scathing attack on Naidu government’s corruption including by pointing out fingers at Lokesh, it might be very tough for Naidu and his men to be cool in the coming days. TDP should now brace up its rank and file to face the next elections without any alliance. In fact, TDP had never gone to the elections without alliances wither with left parties or the opposite. 
 
 
