CHENNAI: After promising to re-mediate the landfill in Athipattu near  ,   has now admitted to not having any concrete plan in place to shut the facility in the future.

 Athipattu was used as a site to dump garbage by the erstwhile   municipality. After the local body merged with Greater Chennai Corporation in 2011, it was expected that the landfill facility would be shut to facilitate remediation of the site via bio-mining. However, the proposal was dropped, even though it had the blessing of local residents and environmentalists.
 
 While senior corporation officials maintain that the facility will continue to be used as a transit point (where waste from Ambattur and nearby localities are collected before being transported to Kodungaiyur landfill), Athipattu has begun taking in more trash than its designated capacity.
 
 “Athipattu is receiving around 80-100 metric tonnes(MT) more waste from   because of a problem at collection points in that zone,” said an official attached to the solid waste management department.
 
 The situation has resulted in the extension of the contract awarded to a construction company .
 
 In a recent special council resolution, the corporation decided to extend by 120 days the work order issued to S P Builders, wherein the contractor will be paid to transport 415MT waste per day from Athipattu to Kodungaiyur. The extension is worth around Rs 1.34 crore. In comparison, the civic body paid only Rs 2.50 crore in 2013-14, for a period of 365 days, for the same work but to a different contractor.
 
 Corporation sources alleged that the project’s valuation has been marked up because the civic body calculates a 90km round trip for tipper lorries from Athipattu to Kodungaiyur. “The actual distance (one way) is around 23km which means a round trip should not be more than 50km,” a source said. Despite a reduction in diesel price, variables in the contract have been marked up to maintain a Rs 269 per MT waste cost value.
 
 Since 2013, an average of 350MT waste per day have been carted out of Athipattu to Kodungaiyur.
 
