Just two years ago, for Apsara Chandran, an  , meeting friends used to be solely at restaurants.

 While she still eats out, the frequency has come down. “We meet up more at home and order food online through Swiggy or Zomato, because it is convenient, fast and the food is hot. Earlier, while the options were limited to pizzas, now we can get a wide variety of cuisines,” she said.
 
 
 Online food delivery apps are slowly changing the landscape of eating from restaurants. The consumer buckets, which are increasingly turning to ordering online, are millennials.
 
 “House parties are now easier as one can get orders delivered through online aggregators like Swiggy and Zomato. Working population is also contributing to online orders,” said Ashwin Rajagopalan, food writer. Single-eaters migrant population from other cities also find it easy to order online, he adds.
 
 City-based delivery platform Genie sees biriyani emerging the favourite food. “The number of orders per person can go up to 3-4 times a week and the average ticket size hovers around 270 to 350. Ordering food seems to be the favourite option for Sunday afternoons. We have seen as many as 100 orders of biriyani from National Lodge, a popular restaurant,” said  , co-founder, Genie.
 
 Santhosh Muruganantham, founder of the Kolapasi chain of restaurants, said online orders accounted for 65-70% of the total volume. “There is a 20-30% monthon-month growth in the number of online orders and the customers who usually walk in are now ordering primarily through Swiggy and Zomato,” he said. The brand with six city outlets now looks to consolidate – shut down restaurants in areas where ordering online is high.
 
 Online ordering also benefits players who start off as cloud kitchens, operating in the affordable, easy-to-carry food space.
 
 And it is not just small chains or cloud kitchens who have switched to online. Five-star hotel brand Raintree gets close to 5 orders a day from Swiggy.
 
 “Partnering with Swiggy helps as it is incremental business where the delivery is taken care of by the third party. We are also on Zomato,” said Chandrashekhar Subudhi, director-food & beverage, Raintree.
 
