
 
 
 Two years ago, C Sagar Kumar, 20 years old and unemployed, stepped out of his house in Hyderabad’s Malakpet slum, and changed his destiny.
 
 A voice from a loudspeaker attached to a rickshaw had caught his attention: “Tired of looking for a job? Come work as a nurse. Earn good money.” He followed the mobiliser behind the voice. After a two-month intensive boot camp, Sagar is employed in a healthcare company which provides home-based nursing aides. He now supports his unemployed parents and recently became the proud owner of a two-wheeler.
 
 In an effort to counter the looming national disaster of more than three crore unemployed and underemployed youth, a new skilling initiative has identified professions where job prospects are booming — home nurse aides, home beauticians, and waiters, among others.
 
 The skilling module has been crafted by Generation India, an initiative by global consulting company McKinsey, after identifying the most in-demand professions today, and then working backwards to mobilise, recruit and train small armies of instantly employable youngsters across India. Research revealed, for example, that there was a dormant need for male home nursing aides, which was not being met as nursing has been traditionally associated with women.
 
 With shifting family structures, specialised home care has become a crucial space and companies like Portea and   have set up countrywide bureaus offering home nursing aides for the elderly, children or those in need of regular physiotherapy, says  , who heads operations at Generation India. “Many hospitals are also trying to address the needs of patients after they have been discharged.”
 
 Appreciating its research-based methodology, the government’s   ( ) has recently adopted the skilling module. The first batch will start its training in April in six cities, funded by the  .
 
 The idea is to scale up and touch many more youth. “It is very easy to cook good food for four people but it should be the same when you take it to 400,” says Gupta. “Skilling has been around for a long time, but there have been two big missing links — getting a job and retaining the job.”
 
 Generation India does not merely offer skill training, but also brings in qualified counsellors to address the psychological lacunae in a young person who has typically grown up in an unstructured, unmotivated environment, often in a distress situation.
 
 “We asked ourselves, can we train the candidates not just technically, but also behaviourally. Can we change the mindset?” says Gupta, pointing out that dropout rates tended to be high. The mentoring continues through WhatsApp group chats long after the training is over and the youngsters are on the job.
 
 “Through various motivational techniques, we help them overcome performance anxiety, build self-esteem and teach them to be assertive,” says counsellor Padmini Stella, describing the case of a young village girl who was married at 16 and widowed at 18.
 
 “When she arrived at the training centre, she barely spoke. After counselling, she developed confidence as well as skills. She works in a hospital now. Her family treats her with a different level of respect,” says Stella. “The idea is to increase productivity both at work and in their personal lives.”
 
 A society in transition is clearly seeing the need for a very different set of skills from the traditional welding and mechanical jobs that skilling institutes offered a few years ago.
 
 Skilled home-based services are in high demand — like beauticians trained in basic waxing and threading. An online company offering multiple home services recently approached Generation India’s recruiters and said that it would guarantee employment to at least 5,000 trained beauticians every year.
 
 High attrition continues to present a challenge to youth skill-training initiatives. Over the past three years, Generation India has found interesting trends that they hope to work into their training modules — for instance, if the candidate sticks with the job for two months, the likelihood of him or her staying on increases. Women tend to hold their jobs far more than men.
 
 And, those with dependents, like Sagar Kumar, are likely to stick on far longer than others.
 
