He was on a flight to Mumbai when someone told   that   had suffered a stroke and slipped into coma. It was surreal, says the young director, as months before that, the octogenarian actress had played an old lady in a similar situation — who finds herself trapped in the decaying world of nostalgia in an esoteric trance — in his upcoming film,  , also her last. On May 9, the actress passed away in a Kolkata nursing home. In his first interview after her demise,   tells us what her final days were like. Excerpts:

 How did you come across Lolita Chatterjee?
 
 I met her through Toopsi mashi, who is Kaveri Devi’s daughter. Kaveri Devi was Lolita Chatterjee’s sister-inlaw and I am close to Toopsi mashi’s daughter, Meghna. I met Lolita Chatterjee even before the film was conceived. There were two natural choices as far as the cast was concerned — Lolita Chatterjee and French actress Emmanuelle Riva. Curiously, Emmanuelle too died after our shoot got over. Lolita Chatterjee completely fit the bill as she had been there, done that. She had seen what fame was like and then, also the fall. When I met her, she was going through financial stress but that did not deter her from wanting to live life to the fullest. Through our conversations what would emerge was how she never got recognition; never had good roles coming her way… In her heyday, cinema was very black and white. There would be the hero, heroine and the other woman. She mostly played the other woman with negative shades. She was delighted to get this film, it was the first for her where she was playing the lead and the film was going to be about her. She told me that in so many years she felt that this was the first time that she was cast as an actor, not as an object of desire or eye candy. She was an organic, natural choice for the film.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 What was your first interaction with her like?
 
 She had seen my earlier film (Asha Jaoar Majhe) and was absolutely delighted. She read the script and told me, ‘Maybe I can’t get into the depth of the story, but I know that you are out to do something very interesting.’ She said she was happy to be a part of it. She was very childlike the way she would express herself.
 
 What was the shoot like?
 
 She was extremely professional. Despite her age, she had no complaints or hang-ups. She was always having fun on the sets. We were shooting in Kurseong and the weather was nice. I never faced any problem shooting with her.
 
 The shoot got pushed back once because she fell ill…
 
 After the Kurseong leg of the shoot, we were shooting in Kolkata. She contracted urinary tract infection. She was hospitalised and I pushed the schedule back. I told everyone that we’ll shoot only when she said she was completely fine. After that, the doctor said there was nothing wrong with her. I think her sugar levels were two-three counts higher than normal and she was a little hard of hearing. Other than that, she was medically fit. I took her for check-ups and got her a hearing aid. There was nothing wrong with her. Though she took a long time to recover, we managed to complete the third schedule, where she had very little to do. She would shoot half a day at a time and the film was finally wrapped up.
 
 Didn’t you also help her shift from   to Regent Colony?
 
 She was extremely depressed about moving out. It was a huge setback for her. There was something in her that couldn’t bear that. She would constantly talk about her old home…
 
 Was she under tremendous financial distress? Many actors in Tollywood, who are past their prime, often go through a similar situation…
 
 Your financial situation has to do with the choices you make. I would like to reserve my comments in this case, but the film industry cannot be blamed always for one’s miseries.
 
 Was she a loner?
 
 No, she wasn’t. She was fun-loving and liked mingling with people. She was very much a part of the young gang. If the weather was cold, she would ask for brandy. Again, before a difficult scene, she would ask for brandy. After enjoying her drink, she would say, ‘Haan, ebar parbo korte’. For a scene, she smoked up and said, ‘Byom Bhole’, as she did so. She would ask for a drag if she saw someone smoking. I would say, ‘Na, na kheona’. She was healthy, would eat normally and had no restrictions. She would always be enjoying with us.
 
 She must have been overjoyed when Jonaki was selected for the 2018 International Film Festival Rottemdam…
 
 She was super-excited about the prospect of a serious movie audience watching her film. It was very cold out there and she was not in a state to bear such extreme conditions, but she told me that she would like to travel to other festivals. That was pretty much the only thing that she wanted from the film. That was the only thing I wanted for her. I told her that she would come with us for film festivals in summer; she also got her passport renewed.
 
 When she suffered a stroke and slipped into coma, you said it was ‘surreal’ as her character in the film is also in a comatose condition…
 
 Incidents like these are very strange. Of course, there’s no divine connection between my film and her, but it was bizarre.
 
 What was your last meeting with her like?
 
 It was about a month back when she came down for the poster shoot. We had a long adda and I dropped her home. She told me that she would cook mangsho-bhaat one day and I said I will quickly finish my work and come for lunch. Then, within weeks, Toopsi mashi called me when I was on board a flight to Mumbai to say she had suffered a stroke.
 
 She shot for a few very courageous scenes in the film…
 
 Two scenes got edited out; anything non-sexual can also be courageous. She was very upset about it. Of course, I couldn’t exploit her as an actor because there are limitations in energy when you cross a certain age, but she was supremely good despite the odds. She was a very rare breed. Jonaki is currently travelling to festivals and eventually we’ll have a release. I want to organise a tribute screening for her but that is not fixed yet.
 
