Nagpur: The chairman of the State Agriculture Scientists Recruitment Board (SASRB) Ram Kharche has appointed himself to the post even as he held the post of board’s vice-chairman.  He also allegedly appointed an unqualified person, associate professor Uday Apte, to the post of secretary.  The board is a part of the Maharashtra Council of Agriculture Education and Research (MCAER). Kharche is also the vice-chairman of the council.  The appointments were made in September 2016. The issue has been raised now by professor VS Gonge, retired PDKV professor and a former director at MCAER. Gonge told TOI that as per the Maharashtra Krishi Vidyapeeth Act, 1981, amended in 2014, a person cannot hold two posts simultaneously. “Kharche was not appointed on the two posts by the government. He issued a letter dated September 19, 2016, appointing himself as SASRB chairman and removed the then chairman of the board JV Patil,” he said. TOI is in possession of a letter which says that as per directive of the agriculture minister, Patil should immediately vacate the post and Kharche will get additional charge of the post. TOI could not contact Kharche for his remarks despite making several phone calls.  “When a person is appointed by the government through a legitimate means, due processes should be followed for his/her removal. How can someone appoint himself to the vacated post? There is no provision in the Act for additional charge to a post,” said a retired senior professor from Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV). Professor VS Gonge added that the board is supposed to appoint persons only above the post of professor. “The rule has been sidelined in the case of Uday Apte’s appointment,” he said. Gonge told TOI that the board is supposed to make appointments in the state agriculture universities in a way to promote education. “But if the system is itself corrupt and illegal, how can they appoint the right persons. I want the system to improve. A judicial inquiry is needed into removal of JV Patil, self-appointment by Ram Kharche as the chairman of the board and appointment of Apte as secretary,” he said. When TOI asked Gonge why he didn’t raise the issue when he was in the MCAER, he said, “ I was on a very low post then. I am was raising the issue now as I have retired from PDKV as well as from the council.” CD Mayee, former chairman of the national Agriculture Scientists Recruitment Board (ASRB) too supports Gonge. “How can someone appoint himself at a higher post? The appointment of an associate professor as secretary of the board is also wrong and illegal. This means the board itself is illegal and so cannot make appointments in a legitimate manner,” he said. Vandan Mohad, ex-director education and director general MCAER, has called for stay on all appointments made by the board headed by Kharche.