PATNA: The state government on Tuesday suspended Muzaffarpur SSP   following the special vigilance unit (SVU) raids on his official residence and office in Muzaffarpur in a disproportionate assets case on Monday. 

 The SVU sleuths seized a country-made illegal carbine from his official chamber and six locker keys from his in-laws’ residence at Aryapuri Colony in   (UP) as raids continued on Tuesday. 
 
 “He will report to the office of director general of home guards in Patna during the tenure of his suspension,” principal secretary (home) Amir Subhani told TOI.
 
 Muzaffarpur City SP Upendra Nath Verma has been made SSP in charge of the district. Verma is a 2013 batch IPS officer.
 
 The notification said   has been placed under suspension with immediate effect as an investigation is currently underway against him following constitution of a case against with the special vigilance unit police station under various sections of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and IPC. The state government has suspended the SSP using powers enshrined under Rule 3(3) of All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, it said.
 
 The 2007 batch   cadre IPS officer, Vivek, and his wife Nidhi Karnwal are accused of amassing disproportionate assets 300% more than the known sources of their income.
 
 The SVU teams had also conducted raids on Kumar’s parental residence at Varun Vihar in Saharanpur and on his in-laws’ residence at Aryapuri Colony in Muzaffarnagar, both in Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Sources said Vivek, his wife Nidhi, father-in-law Ved Prakash Karnwal, brother-in-law Nikhil Karnwal and Nikhil’s wife Shelly Karnwal have been made accused in the FIR lodged on April 15. “Vivek’s father Prakash Chandra has also been made accused in the case,” sources said. They said Vivek’s in-laws own two plots at Sikarhara in Surendra Nagar of Muzaffarnagar district.
 
 Individually or jointly, Vivek, his wife and in-laws together have 112 fixed deposits (FD) in banks worth Rs1.47 crore. These include 21 FDs worth Rs21 lakh jointly owned by Vivek and his wife.
 
 The SVU sleuths had unearthed movable assets worth Rs1.06 crore against the likely savings of Rs33.3 lakh by Vivek and his wife at the time of lodging of the FIR.
 
 
