In the latest episode of  ,   is upset with the fact that   wants to leave with the baby. He tries to convince her but she is determined to leave. Iman alleges that her baby won’t live at a place where Ranajay is living with another woman ( ).

 Ranajay gets quite upset with her behaviour. In a desperate move to stop her, he tells Iman that she needs to divorce him before leaving. Iman is shocked to hear what Ranajay has just said. She controls her emotions and says that she will sign the divorce papers. 
 
 Ranajay had thought that Iman would reconsider her decision after hearing his word but she did not. Instead she asks him to prepare all necessary papers. Ranajay says that he would lock her up in the room or complaint against her for kidnapping the baby. 
 
 Shruti overhears everything as she is standing in front of Iman’s bedroom. She feels bad for them. Shruti tries to convince them. Iman isn’t ready to listen anything. She insults her.
 
 Later Iman declares that she wants to share something to the family. Ranajay’s father gets anxious. 
 
 Ranajay enters the room and asks Iman why she has called him. Iman asks about Shruti. Ranajay says that she shouldn’t involve Shruti.
 
 Iman discloses that Ranajay has asked her to sign the divorce papers before leaving. She adds that she has decided to sign the papers to initiate the process. The entire family is shocked to know about it.
 
 Ranajay says that he will exert all of his force to make sure that she does not go away with the baby. Iman reminds him that he doesn’t have the right to stop her.
 
  asks her to stay as she hasn’t done anything wrong. Iman says that she doesn’t want to stay anymore with Ranajay because she wants him to get married to Shruti.
 
 Iman declares that she would be leaving the place next morning. Ranajay’s aunt informs that she wants to go with her. Iman agrees. 
 Ranajay’s parents urge her to stay.
 
 Shruti asks her to stay but Iman says that their relationship never had the depth. That’s why they are splitting up. She also suggests her to get married to Ranajay. 
 
