Nagpur: There seems to be no hope now for inclusion of 40 buildings, precincts and natural features omitted from the heritage list of Nagpur city. The Heritage Conservation Committee’s (HCC) subcommittee has not recommended even a single site to get heritage status, bringing to an end a 16-year-long battle by activists. The three-member subcommittee, comprising Ashok Mokha, PS Patankar and Ujjwala Chakradev, completed the process of inviting suggestions and objections, followed by hearing, and inspections, and submitted their report to the HCC. Now, the committee headed by retired Neeri director Tapan Chakrabarti will take a decision on the report, and submit their report to the Supreme Court for final decision. During the process to prepare the first ever list of heritage buildings, precincts and natural features in 2000, 49 sites, including Nag and Pili rivers, were considered for the status in initial stages but were finally left out. Vidarbha Heritage Society (VHS) started a legal battle to include these 49 sites in the list. Following a petition by VH, the Supreme Court had directed HCC to give its opinion on the 49 sites. In the intervening 16 years, nine of the 49 sites were either demolished or collapsed, and were left out of the process. The sites are Assa House, Gond Durbar killa, Bishop Cotton School Hostel, Sakkardara Pavilion, Ornamental Tank Regal at Sitabuldi, Carved Stone Plinth at Sitabuldi, Tulsibagh Tank, Sitabuldi Gateway on Abhyankar Road, Tulsibagh — a garden with temples and tank. The re-evaluation process was conducted for the remaining 40 sites. VHS, led by activist Awantika Chitnavis, submitted a list of 39 sites (including nine non-existent ones) to the subcommittee, with details of the sites to press for their inclusion. Mokha told TOI that the subcommittee completed a detailed process and found that none of the 49 sites merited inclusion in list of heritage buildings. “Now, the HCC will take a final decision.” Chakrabarti said he would be able to comment only after holding a meeting to take a decision on subcommittee’s report. Terming the subcommittee’s report as very unfortunate for the city, activist Pradyumna Sahasrabhojanee alleged the current HCC officers do not deserve to continue in their posts. “We have time and again highlighted, and informed the reasons for inclusion of these sites in heritage list. Still, if the committee thinks none deserve the status, the officers are not worthy of the HCC. It seems committee members are either working for vested interests or to fulfil the state’s vested interest,” he said. This process was a big chance to give heritage tag to Nag River. Even though the city got its name from Nag River, the committee did not recommend its inclusion in the heritage list. NOT OUR HERITAGE? *Nag River: Dammed at Ambazari lake, which is in heritage list, many heritage structures along it *Pili River: Dammed at Gorewada lake, which is in heritage list *Bharat Vyayam Shala: Only akhada in list, unique design and layout *St Ursula Girls High School: Established in 1858 by Free Church of Scotland, and first girl’s school in CP & Berar, main building built in 1924 *Sandipani School: Colonial building; private property *Bachelors Quarters: Unique building of its period, lends character to Civil Lines *Raja Kothi: Now Devgiri, residence of deputy CM in Ravi Bhavan, unlike other cottages *Bhuteshwar Temple: Unique temple architecture and idols *Itkelwar Wada: Beautiful wooden carvings, one of few wadas left in city *Mahal Vegetable Market: Part of Mahal road precinct, only such market left in old city *Deshmukh Wada: Belonged to Chandan bai, keep of Raghuji-III *Bhut Temple: Of Bhonsala period, part of Mahal townscape *Gujar Wada: Raghuji-III was adopted from Gujar family *Jamdar wada: Jamdars were keepers of Bhosala wardrobe *Mohite Gateway: Built by Raghuji-II for daughter Salubai, now belongs to RSS HQ *Denge-Patil Wada: Has carved wooden balconies overhanging street, carvings, mirrored and panelled ceilings *Naik Temple: Unique architectural style *Gond killas and bastions: Oldest structure of city, remains of Gond fort *Shiv Temple Kalikar: Kalikars were keepers of privy purse of Bhonsalas *Vithal Rukhmini temple: Representative of its period and architecture, belongs to Koshti samaj *Rajabaksha Hanuman Temple and stepwell: One of few remaining stepwells *Plinth of Chhaoni: Plinth of Baradari at Pardi, historical importance, part of Bhonsala army camp *Water System Pardi: Intake well at lake, stone channels from lake to settlement, importance for period and technology *Bishop’s Residence: Arch Deacon’s house *Bishop Cotton School: One of the oldest educational institutions associated with Protestant Christians *All Saints House: Built in 1910, part of All Saints cathedral *Paturkar Ram Mandir: Carved wood columns and brackets, built in stone *Sakkardara wall, gateways: Saw battle by Bhonsala army against British, converted to garden *Bharat Vyayam Shala: Old akhada, once part of social activity *Shiv Temple Itwari: Plain sandstone structure, arched entrance, no mandap *Itkelwarnacha Wada: Decorative carved exteriors with panels, brackets, corners in wood, highly decorated with handya, chandeliers and mirrors *Amar Sharnam: Two storeyed structure with column cornices and details in yellow sandstone *Mahadev Mandir Mahal: Stone pineal with decorative brass and coiled brass Nag on phallus with Panchmukhi Mahadev, large Nandi outside *Mahadev Temple Mahal: Stone masonry, garbha griha with shikar, timber roof mandap, foliated arches, carved columns *Hathi Khana: Square courtyard with cells on four sides, arched openings, originally elephant stable *Mahadev mandir Wazalwar: Stone construction typical 19th century temple, greyish marble Nandi *Bhutiya Durwaza: Black stone plinth with carving, Bhutiya Deo in small alcove *Open spaces and gardens: Recreational open spaces maintained in current development process *Chaterton Hall: Sloping roof of sheets on yellow washed rectangular brick masonry structure, pointed arches in veranda around rectangular hall, clerestory lighting *Buty Wada: Built around single chowk, timber framed brick infill structure, fore court with double height pavilion used as Diwankhana