Coimbatore: The city corporation to spend six times more on sanitary and conservancy expenses, this year. As per the estimates in 2017-2018, the corporation had proposed to spend Rs 9.3 crore, whereas this year, it has proposed to spend Rs 54.27 crore. Workers and activists alleged that while the salary of the contracted workers had not been increased, this raise has created a lot of suspicions. 

 As per the corporation, there are 2,030 permanent employees and their salary is not included in this head. Apart from them, another 2,000-odd sanitary workers are contracted employees. Their salaries which is not more than Rs 8,000 is paid under this expense head. Back of the envelope calculation shows that even if all their salaries were doubled, the entire expense under this head cannot be more than Rs 34 crore.
 
 The former accounts officer, Senthil Kumar told TOI, “Usually this head only includes the wages of the contracted employees. It does not include sanitary materials such as gloves, masks, push carts as well as the lorry and other conveyance for garbage as they come under a different head of maintenance. This amount could be increased as there are pending dues,” he said.
 
 But as per the budget book, the pending dues for contractors was Rs 42 crore last year, and it has reduced to Rs 40 crore this year. The wages payable has also only increased by just Rs 1 crore and become Rs 20 crore from Rs 19 crore. 
 
 In the last five years, the corporation has never paid more than Rs 34 crore which often included the lorry hire charges and toilet maintenance as well. For the salary of the contracted labourers alone, the corporation has always paid under Rs 1 crore. But sources told TOI that this year, Rs 4 crore would be paid to the contractors and that is the reason for this hike. 
 
 However, activists cried foul and said the entire money was being siphoned off in the name of wages for sanitary workers. “We have raised the issue of fake records of employees several times, especially, contracted workers. Their salaries are very less and often delayed. So if the corporation is allotting such as huge amount, where the money is going,” asked Kovai Ravikumar, state adviser, Tamil Nadu conservancy workers trade union.
 
 Corporation officials in the sanitation department said this amount was raised mainly to please the contractors and politicians. They alleged that a major part of this money went to the politicians as fake bills.
 
 The city health officer, Santhosh Kumar, said he had to consult with the accounts department regarding this. Senior officials in the municipal administration department also expressed shock on this hike and said, they would check it up.
 
 The city corporation commissioner, K Vijayakarthikeyan, was not available for a comment.
 
 
