MUMBAI: The   are preparing to send a team to New Delhi to interrogate   alias  , who was arrested in the national capital on Monday. Qureshi, linked to the banned   (SIMI), is facing three   in Maharashtra and was convicted in a separate case in Pydhonie in the late 1990s.

 Qureshi, 40, whose family is originally from Uttar Pradesh, lived in Thane’s Mira Road area and left India in 2006 after the Mumbai train blasts at a time suspects were being rounded up in the case. His wife still stays in the same Mira Road house with their three children: a son, who is in Class XII, and two daughters, who are in high school. His parents stay with their younger son and his family in the same locality.
 
 His father told mediapersons on Monday he was unhappy with his son and would not meet him ever, while his mother said he had just got into the company of some SIMI men. “He is innocent, I will go to meet my son,” she said.
 
 The state Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) had in 2006 booked Qureshi and other SIMI members for association with the banned outfit and attending a meeting called by it. Though the meeting was held in Ujjain, a case was registered in Maharashtra as well. In 2008, ATS registered another case related to a conspiracy meet and mentioned Qureshi as wanted accused under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. In addition, Qureshi is facing a 2001 case for association with SIMI, registered at Kurla police station.
 
 In a case registered against him at Pydhonie in 1998, he was booked under Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act and convicted. He was sent to prison for two days and fined Rs500 by the court.
 
 After the 2008 Ahmedabad blasts, Maharashtra ATS had claimed he was part of the Indian Mujahideen. Gujarat cops had said he was part of the plot. A day after ATS raided a spot in Andheri in September 2008 to arrest Qureshi, the then ATS chief had apologized to the minority community for the “brutal raid.” Locals had complained about it. Later, IM referred to the raid in an email.
 
 
