THANE: A massive area of land in various parts of Thane, collectively equal to the size of nearly four Bandra   (BKCs), has been identified for redevelopment under the cluster redevelopment plans by the   (TMC).

 These areas spread across the 10 sectors in the city are presently swarmed by haphazard constructions that could pave way for systematic development. The announcement was made at a closed-door meeting between civic chief   and district guardian minister   on Monday evening. 
 
 Officials present for meeting said nearly 22 per cent of the city area that saw haphazard development is a potential area for implementing the cluster scheme. Of the nearly 5,903 hectares of land available in the city, nearly 1,291 hectares are being taken up for implementing the scheme, said an official present at the meeting. 
 
 The TMC along with a panel of experts appointed to formulate urban renewal plans has identified nearly 50 plans for implementation in the city that could not just provide affordable housing in the city but also provide systematic urban infrastructure in parts that presently are in a state of disarray. Further, the development could also provide commercial hubs in the city. 
 
 The focus is not on just bridging the present shortcomings in the area but also with ensuring these areas are self-sufficient to meet demands in the coming future also. The plans have been formulated considering the rehabilitation of all illegal structures in the particular stretch in the city. 
 
 A housing stock of nearly 22,000 houses under the affordable segment could be made available once the entire clusters are redeveloped. 
 
 We are ready with nearly 50 urban renewal plans measuring anywhere between 50-200 hectares each in various sectors of the city. We have come up with a comprehensive plan for each of these sectors with emphasis on not only filling up the present lacunae, but also inclusion of amenities that could be useful in the future as well. We will release these plans for feedback before the public soon before opening them up for implementation, said a senior civic official.
 
 The plans have been formulated considering rehabilitation of illegal structures in the particular stretch in the city. A housing stock of nearly 22,000 houses under the affordable segment could be made available once the entire clusters are redeveloped 
 
 
