NEW DELHI: With   play-offs set to begin today with table-toppers Sunrisers Hyderabad taking on   in the first Qualifier, West Indian great Sir Viv Richards reckons that the 11th season of the tournament has been special. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Writing in his column for TOI, the 66-year-old picked two-time title-holders   as the favourites to claim the   2018 trophy. 
 
 “CSK like every past year, have proven to be strong and do what they do best, wrote Richards, adding “With a skipper like Dhoni, sharp-minded and a lightning-quick wicketkeeper, Chennai are bound to do well. As important as the skipper is, the men in yellow have worked brilliantly together; whether it be Lungi Ngidi's perfect length bowling or Suresh Raina’s smart batting, they have found the formula to work as one”. 
 
 
 
 
 Richards also praised the efforts of SRH skipper Kane Williamson, who rallied his team brilliantly despite the absence of their star players David Warner and Bhuvneshwar Kumar. 
 
 “Despite the absence of star players, Sunrisers Hyderabad stood stronger than ever,” opined Richards. “Williamson stepped up and proved to be the Orange Army’s saviour. The way he rotated his bowlers in the game against MI whilst defending a mere 118 runs was monumental and that commenced a six-match winning streak”. 
 
 The West Indian great was impressed with the young talent that is on show in the tournament and singled out the efforts of 20-year-old   and 17-year-old Mujeeb Rahman. 
 
 "We have seen the rise of young players like Rishabh Pant, whose batting has been exceptional to watch this season, Rashid Khan’s stupendous spin bowling, Mujeeb’s exceptional spells, all-round performances from K Gowtham and Shreyas Gopal when it mattered", said Richards. 
 
 “There were outstanding batting and bowling shows, but fielding efforts have been phenomenal; whether its ABD’s Superman effort or Boult’s stunner; fielding has churned out the best from the season. It’s great to see the youngsters take chances and even greater to see experienced players giving the younger ones tight competition”. 
 
 Commenting about the first qualifier, Richards said it is hard to predict the winners of the upcoming games. 
 
 “The qualifiers starting tonight, are not going to be like any other game. With teams already knowing their rhythm, it will be very hard to predict a winner in the upcoming games. The league started more than a month ago with eight brilliant squads, and now it is down to the final four. All four franchises have tasted the feeling of being champions in the past and will be readying themselves for yet another triumph,” he added. 
 
 
 
 
