Nagpur: Even as Maharashtra government has constituted a special investigation team (SIT), to probe infiltration of herbicide tolerant (HT) cotton seeds into the market, Andhra Pradesh has taken a different approach to the issue. Andhra has prohibited use of glyphosate, a chemical that goes into making herbicides, during the crop period when its required the most by a farmer. HT cotton is genetically modified to be resistant to glyphosate. The variety has not been approved in India yet. US biotech giant Monsanto, which has come up with the HT technology, is also one of the manufacturers of glyphosate-based herbicides. Monsanto did not immediately offer any comment. The 52 deaths due to pesticide inhalation in Vidarbha are being indirectly linked to use of HT cotton seeds as well.  This is how the relation between herbicides and herbicide tolerant cotton seed works. Herbicides are used to clear the weed that grow around the crops. This saves the cost and effort involved in physically clearing them. The chemical can be harmful to the crop itself but if HT variety of cotton is sowed, the herbicide can be safely sprayed around the crop. It will only kill the weeds and the cotton plant remains unharmed. HT seeds itself are not legal as Monsanto had withdrawn from the trials midway due to which the approval process was not completed. However, seeds are still being illegally produced and widely sold in the hinterland. Rather they are preferred by a large number of farmers in Vidarbha. Activists TOI talked to have welcomed the Andhra move saying this will indirectly curb the use of HT cotton seeds. There have been campaigns against the use of glyphosate that the activists says can be harmful to environment as well. The Andhra Pradesh order says injudicious use of herbicides, especially glyphosate can lead to serious implications on many crops. One reason given is to ensure conservation of water. The order says herbicides cannot be used in cropped areas from June to November. This is the period when weeds are present and herbicides are needed. The use has been allowed from December to May. The order also calls for sale only of recommended quantities during the non-crop growth season. A source in the Andhra Pradesh agriculture department said, “around 30% of farmers were using HT cotton seeds. So a strategy was planned to indirectly stop use of seeds. Farmers go for HT seed because they can freely use glyphosate based herbicides. If this chemical is banned, there will be no takers for HT seeds.” Kavita Kurruganti of Alliance for Holistic and Sustainable Agriculture (ASHA) said the move was welcome as the chemical itself has harmful effects. The prohibition will also curb use of HT cotton seeds. Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM) a state government organization said the ban would help bringing down use of HT cotton seeds. The central government should also come up with such an order, he added. HT seed is also in demand in Vidarbha. The production centres are reportedly in Gujarat, Telangana and Andhra. In December Andhra Government registered FIRs against two companies in Kurnool district. The companies have secured interim relief from court, the source said. 