GAYA: Allaying apprehensions about   language’s decay/extinction, noted scholar   said its beauty was enough to ensure its survival. Qasmi, who heads   in Patna City, was speaking at the ‘Save Urdu Conference’ in   on Sunday. The conference was organized by Anjuman Mahafiz-e-Urdu.

 Besides its popularity, the constitutional safeguards available to Urdu guarantee its continuance as an effective medium of communication. Articles 29, 30 and 350 provide protection to Urdu and guarantee a non-discriminatory treatment for the language, he said.
 
 Patriotic fervour of the language is best displayed in ‘Sare Jahan Se Achcha Hindustan Hamara’ penned by Iqbal. It is compared favourably with all national songs written in different languages, including Hindi, he claimed. It was also the language of freedom and revolution. ‘Inqalab Zindabad’ has become the symbol of change. Linguists across the world acknowledge the phonetic value of Urdu as it is very soothing to the ears.
 
 Accusing the self-proclaimed Urdu warriors of doing a disservice to the language, Qasmi said if there was any threat to the language, it was from inside as most people just pay lip service and drive it out of the social menu. How many so-called Urdu lovers get invitation cards for social celebrations printed in Urdu, asked the scholar.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Prof Ali Javed of   decried the tendency to portray Urdu as the language of Muslims. Being a secular language, Urdu did not belong to any particular religious group and its identification with the followers of Islam has caused great harm to the beautiful language. Its branding as the language of Muslims was part of the design to stifle its growth, he said. Maharani Laxmi Bai’s official orders used to be issued in Urdu. No less than 200 versions of the Ramayan were available in the Urdu language, said the DU professor.
 
 Decrying the tendency of some Urdu protagonists to always play the crying baby, Khwaja Ekram, professor of Urdu at Jawahar Lal Nehru University, Delhi, said so much positive things were happening to Urdu. The language was being taught in 89 universities across the world, including in China and  . Popular support and not official patronage was required for a language’s growth. There are examples in which despite state propping, languages die down and there are also examples in which languages grow despite a non-supporting and even hostile state machinery, said the JNU professor.
 
 In his welcome address, Faiyyaz Hali, president of the organizing committee, regretted the   government’s alleged indifference towards Urdu. Senior advocate and public prosecutor Sartaj Ali Khan presided over the conference.
 
 
