PATNA: Union water resources minister   on Monday approved the second phase of Ganga riverfront development project, which envisages development of 27 ghats between   and Nurpur Ghat in Patna City and a 6.5km promenade connecting them. The project will be executed with an estimated expenditure of Rs 218 crore. 

 Work on the first phase of Ganga riverfront development project in Patna is in the final stages. It entails development of 5.7km-long and 15ft-wide walkway along 20 ghats in the city which will have amenities like decorative street lamps, public lavatories, 500 seating benches and green cover. The project was initially slated to be completed by June 2016, but the deadline was later extended to June this year.
 
 Talking to mediapersons on the sidelines of a review meeting on   and other schemes with Bihar CM   and other senior officials, Gadkari said the   government has targeted to make 80% of Ganga clean by 2019 by executing numerous schemes under Namami Gange programme.
 
 Gadkari said 10 cities have been identified which contribute the most in the pollution of Ganga with Kanpur topping the chart. “We have asked UP government to ensure zero discharge from sugar factories, paper mills and other industrial units, which lead to high discharge of pollutants in the Ganga,” Gadkari said.
 
 He added, “Namami Gange is a challenging task as the river flows through multiple states and the level of pollution also varies. The Centre has sanctioned Rs 22,000 crore for different schemes under Namami Gange. The schemes were conceptualised after studying the river pollution mitigation measures in European countries, US and Japan. The best minds and best technologies have been involved in conceptualising and executing Namami Gange programme.” 
 
 On construction of barrages in Ganga under Inland Waterways schemes, Gadkari said, “We are not constructing any barrage in Ganga between Varansi and Haldia.”
 
 Asked about of possibility of running sea planes in the country, Gadkari said, “The Centre will formulate a new law for operation of sea planes in the country. The sea planes will land not only on water, but also on ground. If Bihar government requests, we will launch this service here as well.”
 
 
