AHMEDABAD/PALANPUR/SURAT/RAJKOT: Amid threats of violence by angry Rajputs, movie theatre owners in   have decided not to release ‘Padmaavt’ until the wrangle between protesting outfits, government and filmmakers is resolved amicably.

 “Majority multiplex and cinema hall owners, in their individual capacities, have decided to not release ‘Padmaavat’ until the dispute between government, protesters and filmmakers is resolved. While city police officials have assured security cover, threat perception of damage to property and danger to public life is a greater concern,” said  , president, Gujarat Multiplex Association (GMA).
 
 The concern expressed by GMA seemed justified as protest continued unabated on Saturday across Gujarat by members of Karni Sena and fringe outfits from Rajput, Kshatriya and other communities.
 
 Karni Sena members blocked National Highway 48 near Kosamba in Surat district late on Friday by burning tyres resulting in heavy traffic jam on the busiest highway connecting Ahmedabad with Mumbai. At least five buses were torched in Mehsana and   districts. 
 
 Before police reached the spot, protesters also deflated tyres of heavy trucks and trailers that were already stuck in the jam forcing cops to struggle for hours to clear the 5km-long jam.
 
 Protests also continued in   and north Gujarat as Rajputs blocked roads and highways in Jamnagar, Rajkot, Surendranagar and Kutch, Patan-Deesa and Banaskantha. 
 
 Earlier this week, an SC order allowed Padmaavat’s nationwide release on January 25.
 
 As per estimates by multiplex owners, stalling of the release of a potential blockbuster film causes them revenue loss of at least 40%. Top GMA sources said that most single-screen theatres will not release ‘Padmaavat’ if the dispute continues. Multiplex owners are concerned that damage to property and danger to public life will cost them heavily.
 
 Such protests are likely to further intensify in the days to come. “We have decided to besiege the   headquarters in Gandhinagar on Tuesday to protest against the movie’s release. We will also block the highways across Gujarat on Wednesday,” said  , president – Gujarat, Mahakal Sena, a Rajput outfit.
 
 Alternatively, members of Shree Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena claim that theatre owners have assured to not release the film.
 
 “It is a wait and watch situation. We appreciate the support from state and city police. However, nobody would invite trouble that will cause severe damage to their property. If we feel there is greater risk, we may not release the film,” said Jignesh Sajja, general manager of a city-based multiplex.
 
 
