PATNA: More than 7,000 bank employees from Bihar participated in the nationwide 48-hour strike on Wednesday conducted under the banner of United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU). In Patna alone, rallies and dharnas were organized at various locations like Exhibition Road, Boring Road, Biscomaun Bhawan area and Buddha Marg.

 All public sector bank branches, zonal offices, regional offices and local head offices remained closed during the strike. However, work at most private banks, except few activities, remained unaffected.
 
 The strike had a mild impact on the lives of the local residents. Sudipta Verma, who was spotted near the Patna Junction, said, “I knew about the all-India   and had withdrawn money beforehand. If the stir continues for more than two days, I may have difficulties.”
 
 Several others, however, found the situation worrisome. “My house is being renovated and I have to make frequent transactions in a single day. Cash was unavailable in most of the ATMs today,” Boring Road resident Adarsh Kumar told this reporter.
 
 According to B Prasad, the president of Bank Employees’ Federation of Bihar, “The strike was called by UFBU to oppose the delay in resolving a charter of demands, the government’s casual approach to wage revisions for bank employees and a meagre offer of a 2% hike in wage revision. Initially, only public sector banks were participating in the strike, but as soon as we took out rallies, a large number of private sector banks joined us and closed their offices.”
 
 Sources claimed that Patnaites might have to face cash crisis as ATMs across the city would not be refilled during the strike on Thursday.
 
 Disappointed with the government policies, U K Singh, president of Officers’ Association of the State Bank of India (SBI), rued, “They are insulting bank employees by offering such a nominal hike in wages. Various government schemes would have flopped without the continuous hard work and efforts of bank staff. During the demonetisation phase, we worked for long hours and this is the reward we are being offered.”
 
 SBI-Patna area general manager Mithilesh Kumar said, “The government is solely responsible for this situation. We have no option other than resorting to peaceful rallies and protests. We will continue to do so till our demands are met.”
 
 
