LUCKNOW: Reacting to BSP chief Mayawati’s sharp attack on BJP on Saturday, deputy chief minister   said that Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav had tricked her into an understanding that will only benefit him and his party. Mayawati has made a mistake by trusting Akhilesh, he added.

 “Main Behen Mayawati se poochhna chaahta hoon ki jo apne baap ka nahi hua, chacha ka nahi hua woh aapka kya hoga? (I want to ask Mayawati how someone who is not loyal to his father and uncle would be loyal to you?),” asked Maurya.
 
 
 He alleged that SP chief Akhilesh had tricked Mayawati into an alliance that suits him and will benefit his party only. “Akhilesh Yadav ne bahut shaandar tarike se unka prayog karke apne teen sansad banwa liye... (Akhilesh has beautifully tricked Mayawati and used her support to get three MPs elected),” said Maurya who threw several questions for Mayawati.
 
 Maurya also asked Mayawati to clarify her stand on the people who  . “Mayawati said that Akhilesh had nothing to do with guest house episode but what about the culprits who accompany him all the time? Then have you forgotten how SP had disrespected Ambedkar by calling him a land grabber? How SP renamed medical colleges named after Kanshiram,” asked Maurya.
 
 When questioned on BSP’s allegation of BJP using muscle and money power to win ninth RS seat, Maurya said, “Mayawati ji is baffled by Rajya Sabha election result and is now looking for reasons to explain the loss.”
 
 Reacting on the possibility of a grand alliance coming up, Maurya said, “SP, BSP, Congress have always maligned politics but they will not be able to sway people now. BJP will win the 2019 elections with a thumping majority.”
 
 Meanwhile, a day after BSP accused it of being anti-Dalit, BJP came up with an online campaign that called the tie-up between BSP and SP as a “thug bandhan”, playing on the word ‘thug’ to indicate that Mayawati had been given a raw deal by SP.
 
 The hashtag #Bhatija-CheatsBua trended across   handles as the party targeted SP for being anti-dalit. It accused SP of sending its own candidate   to Rajya Sabha and leaving BSP candidate in a lurch. It accused SP of having anti-dalit mindset by failing to ensure the victory of BSP’s dalit candidate Bhimrao Ambedkar.
 
 
