BENGALURU: A proposal to convert  , in the heart of Bengaluru, into a tourist site has raised the hackles of activists, who fear the move may rob them of their only site of protest in the state capital.

 Under the banner —   — activists will hold a protest against the proposal at the park on January 26 and eminent personalities, including freedom fighter H S Doreswamy and former Lokayukta N Santosh Hegde, are expected to participate. 
 
 Tourism minister  , who has, in a letter to chief minister Siddaramaiah, asked the state government to ‘hand over the power of maintenance’ of Freedom Park to the tourism department, however, regretted the protest.
 
 Kharge told TOI that there is no intention to either disturb or eat into the space of protests. “Freedom Park is a heritage space and it should be used for better purposes like an art gallery or a theatre where people, including students, can learn more about our history and culture. Protesting against such a proposal is unreasonable,” he said.
 
 “Bengaluru has many heritage spaces, including parks, lakes, temples and religious places. It’s important to make these places tourism spots. Freedom Park, located in the heart of the city, can be turned into a tourist spot and designed in such a way that it helps tourists in a different manner,” the letter, a copy of which is with TOI, read.
 
 But the protesting body, headed by activist  , feels the proposal will prove costly for the space used to air grievances.
 
 Gandasi Sadananda Swamy from the Save Freedom Park Campaign categorically opposed Kharge’s proposal. “Every year, the space allotted for protesters is shrinking. Where is the place in the city for larger protests? It’s a conspiracy by the government to convert Freedom Park into a commercial hub,” he said. 
 
 Justice Santosh Hegde said if the proposal affects the space allotted for protesters, then it should be shelved. “Our democracy has given the right to peaceful protest and demonstrations. The government should not snatch the right of citizens. Freedom Park is a place where people like   have protested,” he said.
 
