Pimpri Chinchwad: Only projects to be implemented in the new fiscal were included and allotted funds in the PCMC’s draft budget for 2018-19, which was presented on Thursday.

 Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said he used “controlled budget system” while preparing the budget. “Every corporator suggests a long list of projects to be included in the draft budget. This increases the number of projects in the budget. The projects having token provision are not implemented, thereby, the money allotted to them either remains idle or the corporators themselves suggest it to be diverted to the other projects. We have stopped this token system in this draft budget. So, the number of projects that can be implemented in a given year have only been included in the budget and have been allotted funds.”
 
 He said, “By employing this system, we have managed to bring down the number of projects in the draft budget. Resultantly, the budget book’s size has been reduced by 250 pages.”
 
 Seema Savale, standing committee chairperson,  , said, “The decision of the civic administration to abolish the token system has been accepted even though many corporators have expressed reservations about it. This budget is people-oriented. Projects have not been included for appeasing people by giving false promises.”
 
 Hardikar said there is a large carry forward balance of Rs 586 crore for the draft budget of 2018-19 as we could not utilize the budgetary provision made in the last budget. “The last draft budget was approved late in June due to the municipal elections. Further, the Union government introduced GST, which changed the tender conditions. The state government also replaced district scheduled rate (DSR) with state scheduled rate (SSR), which led to delay in calling tenders. As a result, work orders were given late so their entire provision was not utilized,” Hardikar said about the reason for huge funds remaining unspent in 2017-18.
 
 “We plan to spend all the funds in new fiscal so the balance amount at the end of the fiscal is not more than Rs 42 crore,” Hardikar said.
 
 
