Farook Badcha, a 65-year-old visually challenged man, tunes into the community radio channel - Rathinavani (90.8) – at 6am every day to listen to his favourite show on laws and rights of a citizen. A resident of Amman Pudur in Podanur, Farooq said the channel gave him a medium to speak about his problems and get those resolved by officials.

 At a time when social media has gained prominence, community radios in the city struggle to stay relevant. With limited funds and infrastructure, three community radio stations continue to function; one of them is more than a decade old.
 
 The first community radio station in the city was set up in a small room on the   campus in 2007. The station which initially had just the students as listeners gradually drew thousands. The radio found its voice in the community and people are now invited to the studio often to share their experiences and stories. "We have formed a club called Radio Hub in which more than 200 students come up with programme ideas and help us produce programmes," said station director at   community radio B Chandrashekaran. 
 
 Another community radio station on the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University campus has the best infrastructure but is struggling to find its space in the community mainly due to its location. Located in a semi-urban area, they are unable to cater to their actual audience of farmers. "But our programmes are heard by many farmers who call us regularly. Due to transmission issues we were not functioning for more than a year. But now we are back and we are continuously doing a lot of programmes," said R Balasubramanian, professor and head of department of market extension who is in-charge for the radio station. "We will focus on terrace farming, organic farming and other urban issues and cater to women by producing special programmes for them," he said.
 
 Trying hard to keep up with the times, almost all the radio stations stream online on the respective college websites and use technology as a medium to connect with their audience. "The problem with community radio is that it reaches people only in a radius of 12km. But sometimes, it penetrates up to 90km. Everything depends on the transmission," said Chandrashekaran.
 
 Most of these stations are run by institutions. So they do not have financial problems unlike community radios run by NGOs. It takes nearly Rs10-12 lakhs to get a license and another minimum Rs40,000 every month to run a station.
 
 One of the main problems faced by the community radios is their link with the community. "We need to create a database of the people around 15km radius and conduct surveys and connect with them," said Balasubramanian. 
 
 Another expert who has done research on community radios said that though the highest number of community radio stations was in Tamil Nadu, it was a failure in the state. "The state has the highest television penetration, which is more than 97%, due to the government scheme," said the expert.https://ssl.gstatic.com/ui/v1/icons/mail/images/cleardot.gif
 
 But some are ahead of the times. Mukesh Mohankumar, station head of Rathinavani, said their station got permission from the Directorate of Advertising and Visual Publicity (DAVP) to play government advertisements for seven minutes every one hour for some revenue. But officials said that if community radios should be sustained, the government should help set up many such radios, especially in the rural parts. "Only if the community is engaged, will such radios benefit the people considerably," said Mukesh.
 
 But these urban community radios continue to have their audiences. A R Vasanthraj from  , a retired employee and regular listener of PSG community radio, said, "I have participated in many of their programmes; listening to stories of tea makers and labourers is very motivating," he said.
 
 
