Nagpur: Residents of the city are suffering a lot due to the construction of two flyovers by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The roads on which they are being built are in a very poor shape and minor accidents have been reported every day. In many areas dust pollution has assumed alarming proportions. Kapsi resident Paramjit Singh Kalsi has been asking the NHAI to take remedial measures since the last few months but it has not responded. Fed up with the inaction of authorities, Kalsi obtained information under Right to Information (RTI) Act. He was told that all the potholes had been filled up with tar and in some places concrete by the contractor GDSL-SMSIL. The contractor was also sprinkling water on roads to reduce dust. Kalsi told TOI that the NHAI reply was a “blatant lie”. “Anyone can see that the potholes have not been filled up and I have never seen the contractor sprinkling water on the roads. In any case sprinkling water is not the solution. The roads need to be tarred,” he added. NHAI regional officer M Chandrashekhar, however, defended the contractor. “It is not the obligation of our contractor to maintain roads. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) must do that,” he said. Chandrashekhar blamed the NMC for the mess. “Work had started one-and-a-half years ago but it is nowhere near completion as NMC has failed to hand over the required land. The half-completed project is causing inconvenience to citizens,” he said, adding that problems during construction period was inevitable and it was a matter of few months. “The contractor is doing his best to remedy the situation,” he further said. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal had earlier refuted these allegations saying that NHAI had never officially complained to NMC about any delay. “We are jointly sorting out problems,” he had said earlier to TOI. The NHAI and NMC may pass the buck but the potholed roads are claiming lives. In December last year, a teenage girl, who was riding a bicycle, slipped on hitting a pothole and was crushed to death under a truck. Kalsi says that accidents are commonplace on the Pardi-Kalamna Road and Bhandara Road.  Like the Pardi flyover, even the Residency Road flyover is causing trouble to Nagpurians. Pallavi Bhuchal, a resident of Byramji Town, said, “Gravel is lying on the road in front of Chhaoni Durga Temple. Many two-wheeler riders have slipped and fallen down at that spot. The condition of Koradi Road is very bad in that patch due to potholes.” Further slamming the NHAI, Bhuchal said, “MahaMetro has employed marshals to manage traffic. Why can’t NHAI do that? The agency has not even installed radium diversion signs at all places. It can cause accidents at night.”