PANAJI: From uneducated brothel keepers and pimps to faceless, tech savvy traffickers, the face of the sex trade in Goa has witness a sea change since 2004, the year the red light area in Baina was demolished. 

 Highlighting the changed profile of the trafficker, commercial sex worker and the clients,  , director of  , the nodal NGO of the state’s anti-human trafficking unit said, “With the business operated online, there is no contact with the trafficker, who has now become a faceless entity, making it all the more challenging for the police to track them down.” Action should be taken against big companies with offices in India and Goa that are hosting these websites, he added. 
 
  
  
 
 He was speaking at a consultation on child protection in tourism organised by Children’s Rights in Goa in collaboration with  , on Tuesday.
 
 Further contrasting the profile of the trafficker from 2004 vis-a-vis their present day description, Pandey said brothel keepers and pimps were uneducated and not so influential then. “They also didn’t have much knowledge of the law as compared to today where we find that the traffickers are quite influential, educated, tech savvy and have contacts,” he said. 
 
 Also, then commercial sex was a slum-based activity as against today when it has moved to massage parlours, hotels, lodges and flats, he added. 
 
 The profile of the commercial sex workers has also undergone a change over the years as has that of their clients. 
 
 At the red light area in Baina the commercial sex workers mostly from Karnataka and   were mostly illiterate, from rural backgrounds and with knowledge of only one language. “It was the brothel keeper and pimp who would communicate on their behalf. Today the demand is for girls from the Hindi speaking belt who cannot be identified by law enforcement agencies. In massage parlours the demand is for girls from the North East and Nepal,” he told TOI.
 
 Where clients at Baina were often from the lower strata of society, including truck drivers and labourers, today it is the educated and the tech savvy, he said, adding that tourism plays and important role in creating the demand for commercial sex, resulting in more vulnerable children and women being trafficked for commercial sexual activities. 
 
 The state must set up a special court for speedy trial of offences provided under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, he suggested. “We can’t blame the police. They are arresting people but if they’re not prosecuted there is no deterrent for traffickers and those involved in the lucrative business,” Pandey said explaining that by the time the case comes up in court the victim has moved on to another state resulting in the case falling flat without the main witness deposing in court. 
 
 Instead of the anti-trafficking unit and women and child protection unit in the state sharing human resources, he suggested that more resources be provided for each to function more effectively and also appealed to authorities to show less hostility towards the trafficked women. He was speaking at a consultation on child protection in tourism organized by Children’s Rights in Goa in collaboration with Goa Union of Journalists on Tuesday. 
 
 
 
