BHOPAL: Even as a political storm rages over SC/ST branding of candidates for police recruitment in Dhar, another police controversy has hit Madhya Pradesh. Medical tests of female and male candidates for constable posts were carried out in the same room in Bhind. 

 There was no lady doctor or nurse present, so male doctors took measurements of women candidates, say sources. A video that is going around shows men lined up in underwear in front of a doctor as a woman candidate is in the same room having her measurements taken by a man.
 
 As soon as the video went viral, the administration promised action. The district collector and health department ordered an inquiry to find out if there were female nurses to assist the examination of women candidates. By evening, two officials were suspended —  , who headed the medical board, and police subedar Neeraj Sharma. 
 
 It was a pre-joining medical examination of 217 constables, said sources. Police had requested doctors at the district hospital to conduct the examination on Monday. After the controversy erupted, district hospital authorities told mediapersons that three of the four lady doctors of the hospital were on leave.
 
 Bhind ASP Guru Karan Singh said legal action would be initiated against those responsible. However, none of the male or female candidates have registered an official protest on the ‘combined’ medical examination. 
 
 This comes close on the heels of the branding of SC/ST candidates on their chest during police recruitment in Dhar.   had on Monday trained guns at  , saying: “BJP’s casteist approach has stabbed the nation in the chest. By writing SC/ST on the chests of youth in MP, (BJP) has attacked the Constitution.” 
 
 The ‘branding’ sparked a debate, with local authorities saying it was only an attempt to prevent any irregularities in checking the height of candidates. SC/ST candidates get relaxation in height, they said. Madhya Pradesh home minister Bhupendra Singh ordered suspension of two police officers for this branding, and called for action against the doctors. 
 
