NEW DELHI: Sending a stern message that any attempt to disrupt the sealing drive by the court-appointed committee would not be tolerated, the   on Friday issued contempt notice to Shahdara MLA O P Sharma and municipal councillor   for preventing the panel from taking action against unauthorised construction in the capital. 

 A bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and   took strong exception against them for preventing the committee from carrying out the court-mandated task and directed the two to personally appear before it.
 
 "Since the monitoring committee is functioning under the directions of this court, any interference in its functions will amount to contempt of court. Consequently, for the interference caused by O P Sharma and Gunjan Gupta, we issue a notice to them to show cause why contempt of court proceedings be not initiated against them. They should be personally present in the court on the next date of hearing," the bench said.
 
  The court also directed the Delhi Police Commissioner to provide protection to members of the committee so that they could carry out their duty.  's (DDA) decision to amend the Master Plan to bring relief to traders who are facing the heat of the ongoing sealing drive seemed to be headed for a roadblock with the the court seeking an explanation from it along with the Delhi government and MCD on whether proper research or study was done by them on the impact of the amendment on environment and existing infrastructure of the capital. 
 
  DDA recently approved to amend Master Plan-2021 to give uniform floor area ratio (FAR) in shop-cum-residential plots on par with residential plots; reduce the penalty on non-payment of conversion charges from 10 times to twice the amount; and allow commercial activities in basements. However, the proposed changes are subject to availability of parking and statutory clearances, including fire, structural safety, building bye-laws etc. 
 
 The bench asked the authorities to respond on the adverse impact of the Master Plan amendment on 10 issues including pollution, traffic congestion, environment, fire safety and population. Following are the issues: Environment impact assessment of the proposed amendment in Master Plan 
 
  Whether any study has been conducted & whether any facts and figures are available with regard to congestion in Delhi 
 
  Whether any steps have been taken to effectively manage traffic in consultation with the Delhi Police in view of proposed changes 
 
  Whether fire safety measures have been considered 
 
  Whether steps for providing parking facilities have been provided for and taken into consideration 
 
  Whether civic amenities are available and have been provided, particularly availability of water, management of sewage disposal, solid waste management and supply of electricity 
 
  Whether safety of buildings has been taken into consideration and whether any assessment made of the buildings to ensure safety 
 
  Whether the issue of population density in Delhi- said to be in the region of 1.67 crore - 2 crore- has been taken into consideration 
 
  Whether any information / statistics is available with   with regard to the pollution in Delhi from 2006 onwards till date, particularly when there was liberalisation in the roads notified for mixed use or commercial use. If so, steps taken to reduce pollution. 
 
 
