BENGALURU: Seven matches, five losses and two wins. At the half-way mark of their IPL-11 journey,   and defending champions   find themselves in a similar situation. The two sides are separated by the net runrate. Mumbai are placed sixth, a place above their Tuesday night rivals.

 
 
 
 
 While   and his men go into the contest high on confidence after their eight-wicket win over the red-hot Chennai Super Kings,   and his men have gone from bad to worse.
 
 
 
 
 Both teams have been inconsistent with both the bat and the ball, but the difference between the two has been that Mumbai has lost more close matches than  .
 
 The hosts, who until Sunday had to deal with their inconsistent batting, especially in the middle-order, and ineffective bowling, now face fielding worries too. Against Kolkata Knight Riders on Sunday, the fielders dropped catches aplenty, allowed the opposition to find easy gaps and some of the players didn’t look motivated enough to give their all to save boundaries.
 
 After the match, Kohli didn’t mince words when he said: “I don’t think we’re trying hard enough, we need to be hard on ourselves. We don’t deserve to win if we field like that. We can’t afford to field like that and let singles go to boundaries.”
 
 Walking the tightrope, RCB will need to win at least six of the next seven games to fancy a playoff chance. Mumbai too have to battle the same equation.
 
 The visitors will go into the contest with their noses in front, having beaten RCB on the last five occasions including the previous three facesoffs at the M Chinnswamy stadium here.
 
 While the opening pair of Evin Lewis and Suryakumar Yadav have given Mumbai good starts, the others, including big hitters like Rohit Sharma, Kieron Pollard and Hardik Pandya, haven’t delivered consistently. That said, Rohit, who promoted himself up the order against CSK and struck a 33-ball unbeaten 56, will draw confidence from the innings and will hope for his power-packed batting line-up to go after the embattled RCB bowlers at the small park.
 
 While leggie Mayank Markande will be a threat to the RCB top-order on a track that offers purchase for spinners, pacer Jasprit Bumrah will have to find form in the crucial game.
 
 For Kohli, one of the biggest worries will be the availability of his mainstay AB de Villiers, who missed the last game due to a bout of viral fever. The return of the South African will bolster the lineup that has shown sparks of brilliance on a few occasions.
 
 Putting together the domestic players in the playing XI will have to be thought over with Manan Vohra failing to capitalise on the opportunities offered and Mohammed Siraj continuing to struggle.
 
 It would do the home team no harm if they try out pacer Navdeep Saini, who came into the tournament on the back of a good showing in domestic cricket.
 
 
