BENGALURU: Motorists breaking traffic rules will no longer be able to get away with meagre fines as the   has decided to record traffic offences in chip-based smart  . 

 The proposal to link traffic   with smart cards will help authorities keep an eye on repeat offenders, transport commissioner B Dayananda said on Tuesday, adding their licences may be suspended for up to four months. “We will soon provide traffic police access to our driving licence database,” he said.
 
 At present, traffic police primarily book cases against the registered owners of vehicles. “There are several cases in which the violator is not the vehicle owner,” said Dayananda, “However, DL data will be of no use in cases where the offence is captured by CCTV cameras, and will help only during spot checks”.
 
 Additional commissioner of police (traffic) R Hithendra said at present they only have access to registration certificate (RC) data. “We welcome the transport department’s move, which will bring in more efficiency and transparency in booking cases,” he said.
 
 In a city home to 71.84 lakh vehicles, traffic police booked a whopping 1.01 cases last year, implying that vehicles had been involved in multiple violations. For instance, a car registered in the city had a staggering 195 cases for flouting traffic regulations. Officials said they could suspend licences for violations like overspeeding, jumping traffic signals, drunk driving, using mobile phones while driving and carrying loads above the prescribed limit in goods carriages. 
 
 Dayananda said the move will help them check the history of traffic violations committed by the licence holder. “We will cancel licences of such offenders for up to four months based on the recommendation of traffic police,” he added.
 
 In Hyderabad, traffic police have introduced a penalty point system for traffic offenders which entails licence suspension for anyone who records 12 points within 24 months. Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari had recently said: “If anyone violates road rules more than thrice, his driving licence will be suspended for six months, and if he continues to do so, the licence will be cancelled.”
 
 
 
 
 At present, owners have to enter their vehicle registration number to check the pending fine amount on the traffic police website. With the transport department providing access of DL data to traffic police, motorists can view the fines/violations by keying in the licence number.
 
 
 
 
 Dayananda said they have set a target to bring down the number of road accidents, fatalities and injuries in the state by 15% this year. “We will provide a road-user guide to all motorists for free while issuing licences and RCs,” he said.
 
 A one-day first-aid training will be provided to police personnel, auto and taxi drivers and home guards. “They are the first responders in case of an accident,” said Dayananda, adding that they have allocated funds to road safety committees in all districts for effective implementation of measures.
 
 The department will also provide specialized capacity-building training on road safety to schoolteachers in collaboration with the Institute of Road Traffic Education, New Delhi, to educate students.
 
 
 
 Motorists will be soon allowed to drive without hard copies of DLs, RCs and pollution under control certificates. Dayananda said the government will soon issue a notification on the same. “Enforcement agencies, including traffic police and transport department, will accept soft copies of the documents on DigiLocker”. The platform was launched two years ago by the Centre under the Digital India initiative, and seeks to allow citizens to carry soft copies.
 
 
