CHENNAI: A handwritten sign, “Light Workers Academy welcomes you,” now adorns the entrance of a school building in Nallambakkam, off OMR, that until last month was under  , The change of ‘brand’ has left parents worried about their children’s future.

 They were surprised when told that from March 31, the school will function under a new name, with   allegedly pulling out of a partnership with   in running the school off Vandalur-Kelambakkam Road.
 
 Several parents said the shift in the management of the school where 670 students studied from nursery to Class X was unsettling. “We are unsure because we admitted our kids as the brand of DPS was associated with the school. About 200 students have already left. We are worried the school may close down if many students exit. Many of us have invested in properties in and around the school area and are in a fix because we cannot move now,” said Venkat, a parent.
 
 No official communication was conveyed by the school prior to the withdrawal. “There were rumours that DPS had withdrawn but we didn’t get any official communication nor did DPS respond to calls or emails. The email id had changed to the new name and a parent who got through to DPS was told to touch base with   in future,” said a parent.
 
 Iyarappan B, another parent, said the principal was transferred to DPS Mangalore branch in October last year without any notice. Three months later, the headmistress left. All this was ahead of the Class X   year when the first batch appeared. Different teachers were made in-charge of classes allotted to them during the time, said parents. “The school was running like a headless chicken for three months till a new in-charge authority was appointed only in February for both roles. This is a violation,” said Iyarappan.
 
 It was only at a PTA meet in the second week of March that parents were told, with a presentation, by Uniworld Trust that DPS would be withdrawing and from March 31 midnight, the school would not be known under the famous brand.
 
 While some parents moved the Madras high court challenging the sudden change of hands, a few others filed a public grievance complaint. In response, CBSE said Uniworld Foundation Trust had entered into an agreement with DPS in 2013 and that the latter decided to discontinue it from the 2018-19 academic year.
 
 A Uniworld Foundation Trust representative told TOI the trust wanted to ensure the educational quality would not be hit. “The school is up and running. DPS arbitrarily pulled out and has not clarified the reason for withdrawing. We have no objection with them continuing in the partnership.” Calls to DPS by TOI went unaswered.
 
 
