NEW DELHI: Leader of opposition in Delhi assembly   on Tuesday lashed out at the ruling   MLAs saying that Delhi government must rise above petty politics and make serious efforts to save shop owners from  .

 The   MLAs also hit out at AAP for failing to notify 351 roads for commercial and mixed land use and demanded why the ruling party was afraid of going to court for stopping sealing.
 
 Gupta started his address by saying that AAP must work towards “necessary constructive steps”. “The government is not owning up to its failure in notifying 351 roads approved by MCD in 2007. Their notification was in the hands of the government, but it instead sent the file back to the corporations,” he said.
 
 “If the government is serious about the matter, it must approach Supreme Court and its monitoring committee to find a lasting solution on notified roads too,” Gupta added.
 
 Waving a booklet with the list of roads awaiting notification since June 2009, Gupta claimed that the standing committee of the corporation had approved them in 2007 in keeping with the conditions laid out in Master Plan 2021 notified on February 8 that year. “Ever since the AAP government has come to power, the corporations have been seeking notification of the roads. But the state is not doing it. What does this show? It only reinforces that AAP is playing politics,” he alleged.
 
 BJP MLA Om Prakash Sharma claimed that   are living in fear and confusion. “The trading community does not understand the rules and norms around commercial and mixed land use roads and conversion charges. There is a need to make them aware about it so that traders are not duped into paying bribes by those instilling in them the fear of sealing,” he said.
 
 Sharma cited the case of a trader duped by a woman who came to his shop claiming to be a municipal inspector and took money from him. She turned out to be a fraud and the matter was reported to police. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel too raised concern over the incident.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said that Union home minister Rajnath Singh has been urged to intervene and find a solution to stop the ongoing sealing drive. “We have requested him to speak to housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri in this regard. He has assured us that a solution will be found soon,” he said.
 
 A meeting of Delhi BJP’s core group was held on Monday at west Delhi MP Parvesh Verma’s residence to discuss the sealing drive. Sources said the meeting was attended by Puri.
 
 
