MUMBAI: It was   that wrote to the   about the unauthorized building on Ismail Curtay Road, Pydhonie, said junior urban development minister   in a written reply in the assembly on Tuesday. 

 
  
  
 “The BMC issued a notice to the building in November 2017, following which the (builder) approached a magistrate’s court, which in March asked the BMC to check documents before declaring the construction as unauthorized,” he said. On Tuesday, TOI visited the building and found it locked. 
 
 C Ward’s chief Jivak Ghegadmal, whose suspension has been ordered by the state, told TOI, “We had received complaints about illegal work in the building and served a notice under Section 354 A of the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1888 (see graphic). 
 
 The magistrate’s court has asked us to give anotice under (the more severe) Section 351 after checking documents. This has been served and we are waiting for a reply.” 
 
 In the assembly,   MLA Ashish Shelar, slamming the BMC, said, “What were local ward officials doing until Mhada pointed out the matter? They should be held responsible and suspended immediately.” BJP MLA Raj Purohit alleged that there were over 200 unauthorized buildings in C ward (Pydhonie, Kalbadevi, Zaveri Bazaar, etc) and all civic employees there were involved. 
 
 Opposition leader Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil ( ), NCP’s Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil, BJP’s Yogesh Sagar, and Shiv Sena’s Sunil Prabhu voiced support for suspending the BMC officials concerned. Finally, presiding officer Deshmukh said the issue was serious. 
 
 Minister Patil said, “As directed by the presiding officer, the government will suspend assistant municipal commissioner (Ghegadmal) and other officers responsible for the unauthorized structure.” Last April, municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta suspended senior civic official S M Dwivedi for alleged malpractice when he was assistant municipal commissioner of N Ward (Ghatkopar). Dwivedi had allegedly given construction permission on a plot reserved as a recreational ground at Sainath Nagar, Ghatkopar (west) and had also favoured a builder with additional FSI. 
 
 Also, there’s an inquiry against two assistant municipal commissioners, Prashant Sapkale and Bhagyashri Kapse, on the   fire case. It was during their tenures that the two illegal resto-bars that were gutted in the blaze had come up. 
 
 On the Pydhonie building, civic activists said it was shocking that the BMC didn’t realize that such a huge structure was
 being constructed and served notices only after its completion. 
 
 “A ward officer and his staff are expected to keep a watch on illegal constructions, which is not done in most areas. When people complain, they are termed as ‘professional complainants’,” said RTI activist Anil Galgali. Civic chief Mehta said the BMC is waiting for the state’s order on the suspension.
 
