KOLKATA: An underground parking area has been reserved at   for the two gigantic machines digging the East-West Metro tunnels between   and Esplanade. The tunnel borers will be parked here till September next year.

 The two German Herrenknecht-made tunnelling machines, TBM S640 (nicknamed Prerna) and TBM S639 ( ) have been engaged by Afcons-Transtonnelstroy, executing agency of UG-1 (tunnelling between Howrah Maidan and Esplanade). Considering the hurdles plaguing the Rs 8,575-crore under-river project shortly after its launch in 2010, Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation ( ), that’s implementing the East-West Metro project, fixed a 2019-deadline for the retrieval shaft.
 
 Accordingly, ITD Cementation was contracted to build the retrieval shaft by September 2019. The company that is building the project’s Esplanade station and the UG-II (tunnelling between Esplanade and  ) was not in a hurry to keep the shaft ready for Prerna and Rachna’s extraction.
 
 But the TBMs are making it to Esplanade one-and-a-half months ahead of the scheduled time, having covered 2.8km of the 3.8km (distance between Howrah Maidan and Esplnade) in record time. “Since the TBMs can’t be extracted without the retrieval shaft, they need to be parked underground,” said a source, adding, “ITD-Cementation has earmarked a 20m by 6m area for the twin TBMs at Curzon Park, where the East-West Metro’s Esplanade station is coming up. Construction of the shaft will start any time now.”
 
 Sources said even as the TBMs, comprising the main body and backup (gantries), are each 90m long, they will be dismantled so that the gantries can be wheeled out of the tunnel to Howrah Maidan station, which is the only tunnel opening. All that will remain underground is the main body part, measuring 9m, of each TBM and it can be easily accommodated in the 20m space allocated by ITD-Cementation.
 
 
 The TBM building the Howrah-bound line will be dismantled after a week. “Only the shield or front part will be left behind. Prerna will be dismantled in another week’s time, and Rachna afterwards, once she punches through the diaphragm at Esplanade,” said a source, adding, “The backup parts will be wheeled out, using the rail tracks inside the tunnel. There will be 12 gantries (6 for each TBM).”
 
