HYDERABAD: After frothing for the first time two months ago,   is now turning green, thanks to algal bloom. 

 Water in a lake turning green implies that it's on the death bed. Large swathes of algal bloom were noticed on Sunday, particularly around the lake bund, on all sides. Analysis of samples collected in the last five years reveal that pollution in Hussainsagar, built 455 years ago, has been rising, taking the lake nearer to what experts term 'limnological death'.
 
 Recent research studies reveal that heavy pollution has resulted in high nutrient content in Hussainsagar, leading to the algal bloom. As summer approaches, algal swathes would only increase. 
 
  
  
  
 
 Visitors to the lake on Sunday were surprised on seeing the green water as they have been accustomed its foul stench but not "coloured" water.
 
 Limnologists or experts in lake studies said that heavy presence of chlorophyceae algae is giving water the greenish tinge. 
 
 Already Saroornagar lake, a heritage water body like Hussainsagar, is changing colour from green to blue with seasons. A similar phenomenon is in store for Hussainsagar.
 
 A study by researchers from the department of zoology and the pharmacognosy and medicinal plants laboratory of   published in the recent issue of the   in Science and Technology revealed that the water quality in the lake has been deteriorating over the years in most of the parameters that govern water quality index. 
 
 Though the study was primarily meant on treating the highly polluted Hussainsagar water using a patented purifying technology, data collected by the researchers present a sorry state of affairs.
 
 The researchers concluded that the polluted Hussainsagar has "shown high values except for nitrite radical concentration. These results indicate that Hussainsagar water is alkaline, less productive in nature, highly polluted and not suitable for drinking and culture of fishes".
 
 INTACH Telangana co-convener P   said there is urgent need to protect the historic lake. "Hussainsagar is a lake of heritage and historical value. All the encroachments in its original catchment should be removed and rain water should be allowed to freely flow into it. If this done, the lake will revive within a couple of years," she added.
 
 
