MUMBAI: Mojo’s Bistro employees, in statements to cops, alleged that a   had forgotten to turn off the fan, due to which   embers came in contact with curtains, leading to a fire spreading and killing 14 persons in the adjacent resto bar, 1Above, on December 29, 2017. Sayyed alias Shezad Ali (22) had allegedly left his spot, where he was manning burning coals, to tend to patrons. Sayyed was arrested on January 25.

 The statements are part of the   submitted by cops in the   tragedy this week. N M Joshi Marg police have also invoked Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections for forgery, breach of trust and cheating after they found a civic official had submitted fake documents of 1Above and a fire brigade officer endorsed them. The charge-sheet said (arrested accused) Rajendra Patil (G south ward) submitted fake documents and an old photo of 1Above, stating that it was ‘‘open to sky” and hid the fact that the 6,762 sq ft space was actually covered with tarpaulin and other material. Patil has been accused of submitting bogus pictures to mislead seniors to get the NOC for owners of Sigrid Ospitalita and Entertainment LLP of 1Above. Patil also stated that 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro were fire compliant. 1Above’s actual usage area was only 1,730 sq ft, while the rest was illegal, said BMC. Patil had inspected the pubs on December 22, 2017, and issued an NOC that there was no rooftop even though the terrace was covered. Fire officer Sandeep Shinde has been accused of certifying and endorsing that NOC.
 
 “As Patil hid the fact on illegal constructions/alterations by 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro, we added IPC sections 420, 471, 465 and 466 for cheating, and using forged documents as genuine, and forgery,” said an officer privy to the investigation.
 
 Police dropped the name of architect, Bharat Gandhi, as an accused. They had been looking for Gandhi but the charge-sheet said prima facie Gandhi, as an architect on behalf of (arrested accused, Kamala Mills director) Ramesh Gowani, had only made a plan and submitted it to BMC for change of user/activity. Civic officials said that it was the property owners’ sole responsibility.
 
 Hookah manager Hifzul Kumbhar told cops the four employees including Sayeed, would take dinner in turns. Kumbhar said that when the order placed at five minutes past midnight was delayed by 5-10 minutes on December 29, he went to the hookah counter, where he saw Sayyed. “I instructed him to turn off the fan and sigri,” Kumbhar said. He stated that when he heard screaming about the fire, he saw the black curtains near the hookah counter on fire, the fan was on and Sayeed was not present Kumbhar said when he got down to safety , Sayeed allegedly told him that since there was another order, he had forgotten to turn off the fan, and flying   led to the fire. Huzefa alleged that Sayeed’s negligence led to the fire. A similar statement was given by another waiter who also spoke to Sayeed after coming down from the burning restaurant.
 
 Also part of the chargesheet are statements of family members of   who died. Among them is the husband of a woman who was trapped in the 1Above washroom and died. The man, injured in the fire, told cops how he made his way through the narrow, crowded exit and the falling fire debris with some members of his group. The man said he got out despite a stampede. He said when he was making his way down, his wife called him on his phone from the washroom. The man told her to stay there as the fire was massive outside. 
 
 
