BENGALURU: A day before it's scheduled opening by the chief minister, the revamped   has landed into a green controversy. The TenderSURE road has been designed to be lined by plants, but the species selected by   doesn't seem to fit the bill. The agency has planted   - known for their gigantic growth - which experts feel are not suitable for the stretch. 

  "Java Fig trees have been chosen for a narrow street. They are too close to one another and will have inadequate root space if they grow larger. Why couldn't they choose a different species? It's sad that species' characteristics get ignored," said ornithologist Krishna M B, who raised the issue on social media. 
 
  The wrong selection by the BBMP team will have an adverse impact on the road construction done so far, experts worry. "A mix of smaller yellow and pink tabebuias, Singapore cherry, milletia, cordia, caesalpinia pulcherrima and small cassias would have been better," says Krishna. 
 
  The Palike has also used ornamental plants like date palm and phoenix plants at the entrance of Church Street near hotel Empire. According to Vijay Nishant, known as a tree doctor, it is nothing but lack of common sense on the part of BBMP officials. Java fig is a ficus plant and its roots can penetrate the utilities beneath the ground, he said. "Why has the agency not placed root barriers while planting Java fig saplings," he asked. 
 
  However, according to sources, BBMP was given just three days to complete all work on the street, including beautification and planting of saplings. "It has blindly chosen the plants in the limited time," said sources. Officials from BBMP's horticulture wing said Java fig was chosen as it holds water. "We have seen plants dying on other streets when they haven't been watered for a couple of days. Hence, we decided on Java fig as it can hold water. We won't let them grow to their fullest and they will be pruned once they reach a height of five feet," said officials. However, they had nothing to say when asked about the possibility of roots penetrating the ground and affecting utilities. 
 
 
