 These are nervous times again for Churchill Brothers SC as they battle to save the drop again in the  .
 
  Goa’s lone representative in the I-League for the past two seasons, Churchill’s place in the top tier of Indian   means a lot to every Goan. There is a lot of pride at stake and the former two-time champions know they cannot afford to falter any more.
  
  The team coached by Alfred Fernandes find themselves in the ninth spot and are tied on 16 points with relegation rivals  , whom they lost 1-3 in the previous match.
  
  Knowing the battle they are up against to save relegation, Churchill have strengthened their attack with two foreign strikers and will hope Siyo Zunapio (Congo) and Francis Oneyamo (Nigeria) break their three-match losing streak against   Kerala FC at Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Saturday.
  
  “The reputation of the club and players is at stake. We are in a hole which we have dug ourselves. But I’m sure we have the ability and mental strength to come out with three points which is vital to stay afloat in the I-League. The next three matches are like finals for us,” said Alfred.
  
  Churchill could have the psychological edge after defeating Gokulam 3-2 in their own den in January but the debutants have hit red-hot form ever since with five wins in their last six games. Gokulam have defeated both Kolkata giants, Mohun Bagan and East Bengal, and come into this fixture after a solitary goal win over title aspirants Minerva Punjab FC.
  
  “Gokulam are playing very good football. No wonder they have beaten all the big three and it is very tough playing against a team who are on a song,” said Alfred.
  
  The new foreign signings at Churchill have arrived to replace Nigerian midfielder Kalu Ogba and Ivorian forward Koffi Mechac, both of whom have been released. Adding to Churchill’s strength will be the return of the injured Richard Costa who will bring compactness in the centre alongside Kyrgyzstan’s Bektur Talgat.
  
  Gokulam head coach Bino George believes his earlier struggles in the season were due to unavailability of good foreign players, but once they recruited Henry Kisseka, Mudde Musa and Mohamed Alajmi, they adapted to the team’s style of play and produced significant results.
  
  “All my boys are new and have no experience of playing in a big competition. So, each match they are getting ideas and it will be good as they are putting in a lot of hard work. Churchill are always a good side and I respect them,” said Bino, who is aiming for a direct spot in the Super Cup.
  
  The Kozhikode-based team are placed seventh with 19 points from 15 games and are immune from relegation.
  
  
  
 
  
  Churchill Brothers are locked in a relegation battle with Chennai City FC, while defending champions   FC strangely can also face the drop. TOI looks at each team’s chances of staying up in the I-League as Gokulam FC (direct entry) and Indian Arrows (developmental side) are immune from relegation
  
  Churchill Bros: They have a battle on their hand to save relegation and the next two matches – both at home – against Gokulam FC and Mohun Bagan might provide telling answers. Churchill face title aspirants Minerva Punjab on the concluding day of the league on March 8. Placed ninth with 16 points, they must finish above Chennai City FC because of their inferior head-to-head record. Churchill lost both games against Chennai City.
  
  Chennai City: Most likely to go down, Chennai are tied on points with Churchill but have two very difficult games. They play East Bengal away and Minerva at home in their last two matches and must win at least one to have a realistic chance of escaping relegation.
  
  Aizawl FC: The defending champions from Mizoram are in sixth spot with 21 points but can still face the drop if they lose their next two games against Minerva, Gokulam, and fellow relegation battlers – Chennai and Churchill – continue their winning ways.
