KOCHI: Sitting on an easy chair,   (90) is busy reading a newspaper. On seeing me, he smiles, keeps the newspaper aside and says: “Every day after breakfast, I read the newspaper.” Then as if reading my mind, he says: “My children are settled abroad. I was with them for few years. Then I decided that we both need to give each other space and moved to a home for the aged,” said Mathew. He prefers to do all his work alone but admits that he has a little difficulty while walking.

 
 In an adjacent room is another patient on ventilator. She is barely conscious and there is a nurse keeping a watch on her vital parameters round the clock. Welcome to Aged Care, that is a twin combination of hospice and old age home. Here both terminally-ill and aged share rooms and their heart with each other far away from their near and dear ones.
 
 While some like Mathew have made a choice, there are others who are forced to make one. But no one is complaining, though some do admit that they are disappointed. The minimum cost of stay is Rs 22,000/month, which rises depending on medication and palliative care.
 
 “As the ageing population is growing, we need many more homes to take care of the aged and those who are ill with chronic illness and depression. This must be handled sensitively,” said  , managing trustee of Aged Care, Vennala.
 
 “Some people fear death and want people always around them. As people age, the question is who are detached from them. If you want to do something for the elderly, do it now when they are alive,” said  , who decided to set up a home in 2015 after a personal experience.
 
 He was in the construction business and renovating the house of an NRI, when he found the aged, criticallyill mother of the   inside the house. Though there was a caretaker, she neglected the woman who could barely speak. She died within few days of being shifted to the hospital. This incident changed him and he decided to make living better for senior citizens.
 
 “The situation in   is changing and aged people are alone. Recently, a 58-year-old woman approached us asking whether we would admit her for some weeks as she had to undergo a cataract operation and there was no one to take care of her,” he added.
 
 (Names changed to protect identity)
 
