BENGALURU: After a tough electoral battle in  , star campaigners from Congress, BJP and JD(S) are unwinding in style, giving their mind and body the much-needed rest before getting ready for the battle of manoeuvres that is likely to unfold when the votes are counted on Tuesday.

 
 While chief minister Siddaramaiah has preferred to unwind at his home town of Mysuru, catching up with family members, BJP chief B S Yeddyurappa is visiting temples, meditating and even going for walks in between receiving visitors at his Dollars Colony residence in Benglauru.
 
 BJP chief Amit Shah was on a day-long trip to Goa to meet his partymen on Sunday amid a prolonged absence of the state’s ailing chief minister Manohar Parrikar, who is in the US for treatment.
 
 On the day of polling in Karnataka, Shah had sought divine intervention by visiting Tirupati in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, where his convoy was attacked by TDP workers.
 
 Janata Dal (Secular) state president H D Kumaraswamy, along with his son and sandalwood actor Nikhil, left for Singapore for a two-day rest on Sunday morning, triggering speculations about his health condition.
 
 Party sources said the JD(S) leader, who is expected to make key decisions in the event of a fractured mandate as indicated by various exit polls, left for Singapore to take some rest after having tirelessly campaigned for over a month. Sources, however, said he will also undergo medical tests as the campaign has left him exhausted.
 
 Kumaraswamy has undergone heart surgery twice, with the last one just a few months ago.
 
 Siddaramaiah spent the entire Saturday at his residence in Mysuru before returning to Bengaluru on Sunday afternoon. “I just want to relax for a day alone and take rest. Don’t allow anyone in,’’ he reportedly told one of his personal staffers.
 
 Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, 86, who was exhausted by the campaign, took a break from political activities and confined himself to his home.
 
 BJP’s ST face B Sreeramulu did ‘gau puja’ at his residence in Ballari on Saturday by feeding seven young girls as suggested by his family astrologer. Sreeramulu is hoping to win both in Badami, where he contested against chief minister Siddaramaiah, and Molkalmuru in Chitradurga. Both constituencies are headed for a photo finish.
 
 Sandalwood actor Jaggesh, who contested on a BJP ticket from Yeshwantpur, was in Mantrayala to offer special pujas for his victory.
 
 Several candidates made a beeline to a naturopathy centre on the outskirts of the city and enlisted themselves for detox packages.
 
