 ( ): Away from the tumultuous political pitch,   cabinet minister   celebrated the arrival of migratory birds in Punjab and announced not only to continue with the feast but also invited top photographers to click the avian visitors in their natural habitats in the state.

 “Punjab is the favourite spot of migratory birds, which is amply proved by the converging of around 30,000 and 70,000 migratory birds at Keshopur Chhamb and  , respectively,” Sidhu told newspersons at   in Gurdaspur district on Monday.
 
 After showing resentment against his own government in public for being ignored while making selection of mayoral candidates in Punjab,   came as a respite to ‘refresh’ Sidhu from mainstream politics. The minister, who holds the portfolios of local bodies, cultural affairs and tourism departments, toured Keshopur Chhamb wetland and watched the migratory birds and visited the exhibition of domestic goods manufactured by a self-help group.
 
 Sidhu skirted political questions, stating that he was there to celebrate the migratory birds festival. When repeatedly asked about his ‘bitterness’ with chief minister  , he denied there were any differences between them and instead blamed the opposition parties for unnecessarily flaring up issues to attract media attention.
 
 Combing back to the issue of avian guests, he said, “Next year we will invite photographers from ‘Discovery’, ‘National Geographic’ and ‘Animal Planet’ channels for World Photography Contest at the wetlands of Punjab that plays hosts to a large number of migratory birds than any other wetlands around the world,” he added.
 
 Keshopur Wetland is spread over 850 acres belonging to several villages, including Miani, Keshopur, Magarmudia Dalla and Matwas.
 
 However, panchayats of these villages often gives the land of the wetland on contract to fish farms and for agriculture cultivation, which results in killing of migratory birds due to use of net and chemicals to catch fish.
 
 Sidhu stated that Punjab would develop a wetland circuit for the bird lovers for which all wetlands would be made attractive from tourism point of view. “The tour operators as well as the tourists will be connected with the circuit and every facility would be provided to the tourists at these wetlands,” he said. The minister also said that from next year onward, tented accommodation would be made available for the tourists
 
 .
 
 
