Nearly seven lakh people living along the arterial Ahmednagar road can finally look forward to days without worrying for water before next summer.

  
  
 
 The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) ambitious plan to build infrastructure and draw water from the Bhama Askhed dam at   in Khed taluka, around 62km from Pune, has picked up pace with the civic officials expecting to complete it by March 30, 2019.
 
 At present, the residents are getting potable water from the Cantonment water works and Wagholi under a   scheme. However, complaints about water scarcity, low pressure and irregular supply have been pouring in for years together.
 
 Constant pressure from the residents, elected representatives and the local political leadership prompted the civic body to chalk out a plan to draw water from the dam, keeping in mind the needs of the projected Nagar road population of 14 lakh by 2041.
 
 PMC city engineer Vijay Kulkarni (water supply) said, “The state had acquired properties of 1,303 farmers residing in the backwaters of Bhama Askhed for constructing the dam. But the issue of rehabilitation and damages left the project pending for over 20 years. After the civic body started construction of the jack well and water treatment plant and laying the underground pipeline up to 19km in 2014, the farmers had stopped the work.”
 
 He added, “The farmers are not opposed to the move of drawing water from the dam. They want the issue of rehabilitation and compensation to be sorted first. After constant negotiations, meetings and mutual understanding, the farmers allowed the pending work — laying of the pipeline along the 5km stretch from the jack well to the treatment plant from — to start from April 23.”
 
 He added, “We have planned to lay pipeline up to a distance of 4km as we are waiting for the outcome of the government’s decision. We will supply 5 ML raw water to the   after the project is completed by March 2019,” he added.
 
 Aarti Sonagra, president of the Nagar Road Citizens Forum, said, “Sufficient water was available to meet requirements of the people when the population was less. But rapid urbanisation, increase in population and mushrooming of housing societies, educational institutes and IT parks triggered the scarcity. The situation worsened during the last three years.”
 
 She added, “We started creating awareness among people to save water. We want the PMC to install water meters to deter residents from wasting water.” Wadgaonsheri Nagrik Manch convener Ashish Mane said, “Water scarcity is common in suburbs such as Wadgaonsheri, Sainathnagar, Kharadi, Vimannagar and Vishrantwadi. These places have become densely populated because of rapid urbanisation. The water supplied by the PMC does not meet the residents’ need. Many people have install electric motors. The result is unequal distribution. With the merger of several fringe villages, for instance Lohegaon, the population and demand for water have further increased.”
 
 Engineer Prashant Thorat said, “A real estate boom will take place in the scarcity-hit areas such as Dhanorie, Kalas, Tingrenagar, Vishrantwadi, Chandannagar, Vadgaonsheri and Lohegaon if the water supply improves. Agricultural land is lying unused due to the dearth of water. Such plots can be used for development purposes. The project will also benefit residents of   and Koregaon Park."
 
 Project-affected farmer Mahadev Limbhore said, “The government kept the issue pending for years together and we (villagers) decided to stall the supply project to build pressure on the state to resolve the disputes.”
 
 He added, “The government had earlier acquired land of farmers at Karanj Vihire, Askhed Khurd, Shelu, Koregaon Khurd and Bordara for a canal to supply water to Daund and Shirur. It later cancelled the project, but no compensation was given. We can’t use the land for agriculture any more. We cannot sale or transfer the land as the 7/12 extracts mention state its is reserved for the canal. We have requested the district collectorate to delete the word ‘canal’ from the extracts. However, nothing has happened till date.”
 
 Khed MLA Suresh Gore said the farmers were united and not opposed to the compensation package of Rs 10 lakh per hectare. “The government is ready to compensate them because Pune needs water. The government has also provided Rs 3 crore to two villages and is ready to offer Rs 3 crore and Rs 1.45 crore to four more villages for development work like constructing roads. We want water for the farmers who have been relocated. We have requested the government to conduct water audit to ensure equal distribution.”
 
 
