Although we are one of the fastest growing nations in the world, it will not be entirely wrong to say that some of us, especially men, need a crash course on menstruation, among other things. Not because we are unaware of its existence, but because we are yet to ‘learn’ about it. 

  Given how culturally diverse the country is when it comes to region and regional influences, surprisingly, it seems to be unified in its fear of ‘periods’ and the many myths around it. The millennials, however, are not keen to continue the tradition and feel it’s time to speak up on the M-word, rather than sweep it away as a dirty word.
 
  
 
 
  “My mother and grandmother told me about the time when bleeding women were kept in solitary confinement and not allowed to interact with men during those days. They were given old rags to double up as pads. This happened across all strata, including affluent households. Interestingly, when my mom discovered that I use tampons, she flipped. That felt like a whole new level of taboo,” shares corporate lawyer Bidisha Sathpathy, adding that despite hailing from a fairly liberal family, she was advised against doing household chores during that time of the month.
 
  While writer Pushpanjali Singh has not been through ‘such harassment’ at home, it has not kept her away from age-old customs of maintaining safe distance from idol worshipping. “I have been lucky that my family isn’t really rigid, but there are times when my mother doesn’t let me touch her clothes that she wears for puja. The obvious ‘don’t enter the temple’ syndrome does exist. I remember one such incident vividly — my cycle began during chhath puja, so I was made to sit on the opposite side of the ghat to prevent contact with other people praying there. As the whole extended family had gathered, I didn’t argue much. Thankfully, my father gave me company to calm me down, but the kids kept asking ‘Why is choti didi sitting there?’ That was insane!” she narrates.
 
  Annesha Chaudhuri, a management student from one of the finest B-Schools in India, had a string of rules to follow. She lists, “In my family, there is a strict ‘no-no’ rule to touching anything holy during periods. I am not even allowed to fast during those 6-7 days. I am also not allowed to touch pickles. As an undergrad, I saw through these stupid restrictions and don’t follow them anymore. However, my mother doesn’t know about it, yet as I’ve been living in a different town since my graduation.”
 
  Another management student, Swastika Patra was never subjected to any kind of taboo at home, but her coaching days in Rajasthan was a different story. “I was living with a conservative family as a paying guest in Kota. Girls were not allowed to enter the kitchen or touch the earthen pot to have water when they had their chums. Since I was new to these rules, I inadvertently touched the earthen pot and the family immediately threw the water out of the pot and washed it,” she recalls. Needless to add, Swastika did not last in that household for too long. 
 
  
 
 
  While periods continues to be one of the most under-discussed natural bodily change, there are some who have embraced its existence with open arms and see no harm in talking about it. “My mom has always been vocal about it in front of my dad and me. When I got my periods, she would openly ask him not to bother me, or let me rest if I am in pain during the first and second day. One such time, I remember her asking my father, ‘How would you feel if you were bleeding for five days?’ So, there’s nothing hush-hush about having periods. In fact, my dad has has even bought sanitary napkins for mom and me,” recalls Chandrima Paul, who has been living away from her parents for quite some time now.
 
 
  Medical student Kshitija Bhutkar hails from a family of doctors, and has never experienced any kind of taboo around menstruation. “Since I am from a well-educated family, I hardly face any restrictions during my menstrual periods. In fact, cooking is also not restricted as we are a nuclear family,” she shares.
 
  It’s the same for Neeti Singha, a make-up and beauty professor, who has never felt any kind of hesitation or shame in buying sanitary pads. “Maybe because I am an extrovert or just indifferent to perplexed stares, I go out and buy sanitary pads like I buy vegetables. It’s 2018, where is the shame? My parents explained to me about the menstruation cycle even before I got them. Since I come from a joint family, everyone in my house gets to know when I am on my chums. It’s pretty normal,” she reveals.
 
  
 
 
  Gone are the days when men behaved like ostrich and dug their heads in the sand about matters like menstruation. “When I saw it (referring to the sanitary pad) for the first time, I thought it was my mom’s make-up pad for blending foundation. When she saw it in my hands, she snatched it away from me. Now, my friends and I always forgive our female friends for having drastic mood swings and blame PMS for it,” quips Dr Tushar Agarwal. On a serious note, he adds that as a younger brother to two sisters and a gynaecologist, he does not frown upon the monthly cycle as it is nothing but ‘a biological process.’ 
 
  Meillind Parsoya, an MBA student, does not freak out at the mere mention of sanitary pads, niether does he feel weird about buying them. “I know the brand that my girlfriend and mom use. In fact, I have purchased it for both of them on several occasions. There is nothing awkward about it,” he asserts.
 
  IT professional Tapojyoti Dutta and his gang of boys were always keen on 
 
  enlightening themselves on this topic and they did. “The awareness on the topic is pretty high in the gang. We have discussed about menstruation, the science behind it and about each other’s experiences related to it. One point that everyone seemed to agree with is that men should be focused on helping women during these times,” he explains.
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
