CHANDIGARH: In an attempt to reach out to the rural residents in  , the Manohar Lal Khattar-led   government has come out with a unique plan under which the deputy commissioner (DC) and superintendent of police (SP) of each district will have to stay at one village for a night at least once a month. 

 As per the plan, disclosed by office of Haryana chief secretary on Tuesday, all DCs and SPs have been directed to do a night halt at least in one village to hear and redress the public grievances once in a month.
 
 The officers had also been directed to send the report regarding their stay, in a soft copy along with photographs through email to the chief secretary's office.
 
 To ensure the directions be strictly complied with by the officials, the divisional commissioners and inspector generals of the police (IGPs) has been told to review the progress on a monthly basis.
 
 The divisional commissioners and the IGPs are supervisory officers for the DCs and SPs respectively in the areas concerned. Haryana has 22 districts and around 6,700 villages.
 
 The officers have been tasked to respond to the problems of the villagers during their night camp and try to resolve them there and then. 
 
 Other officials of different wings of the district administration would also be accompanying the officers during night halt.
 
 According to information, villages in Haryana face problems related to the elderly and other social pension schemes, police, health, animal husbandry, irrigation, power, public distribution system and revenue.
 
 Professor  , former dean (social sciences) of  , said it was a healthy step and would boost villagers' confidence, if followed and implemented religiously.
 
 Retired bureaucrat  , however, said in present times such decision seemed to be more of a political gimmick by the ruling party to give an impression that they are close to people in the villages. 
 
 "Since the aim of such night halts is to solve people's problem, the presence of a DC/SP would require huge infrastructure in the village. I think that the decision may become a burden for the villagers. The government seems to harvest the political crop without realizing it is not practically viable", Chaudhary said.
 
 
