In the latest episode of  , Ranajay expresses his gratitude towards   for helping Shruti. During their conversation, Ranajay offers Iman to drop her home but she refuses. Iman says that she feels bad for him. 

 Ranajay reveals that he is aware of Shruti visiting Iman’s place the day she died. Iman confesses that she feels bad for not behaving well with Shruti. Iman shows concern for Ranajay and Michil.
 
 Iman returns home and asks Bugi to prepare food. She wants to provide food for Ranajay.   is shocked to learn that she wants to send food for him. Iman replies that she is concerned about Michil. 
 
 Sabitri wants the couple to start afresh to which Iman disagrees. Iman informs her that they are divorced. Sabitri inquires her whether Ranajay has submitted the divorce papers. Iman replies her that their relationship ended the day she signed on the divorce paper.
 
 Bugi teases her for showing concern for Ranajay. But Iman gets offended and snaps her. 
 
 Bugi reaches Ranajay’s bungalow to deliver him the food Iman had sent. But he doesn’t want to take it. Ranajay informs her that he has made food for Michil. Iman enters the room and insists Ranajay to take the food. She meets Michil and shares her wish to send food for them for the next few days.
 
 Ranajay refuses to take the food. However, he tells Iman that she can feed Michil if she wants.
 
 Ranajay thinks that Iman has brought food since Shruti isn’t alive. He also criticises her for not bringing food when Shruti was sick due to illness. Iman feels bad.
 
 Iman asks whether he has come to   for her and Pekham to which Ranajay disagrees. Ranajay requests her not to show sympathy towards the child. Iman gets upset and leaves the place. 
 
 Dr.   scolds Iman for committing a mistake at the hospital. He alleges that her personal life is taking a toll on her professional life. Iman tries to explain herself but he doesn’t want to listen to anything. A nurse alleges Iman of instructing her to pull off the oxygen mask from a patient. The nurse also shares that she has a witness for this. Ritaja tries explaining that a few staff don’t like Iman and that’s why they are trying to defame her. The witnesses arrive and speak against Iman. 
 
