The 'Weekend cha daav' episode of   Marathi started with  's smashing entry. Now the 3rd week of the show has come to end.
Mahesh dedicated one song to the current situation inside the Bigg Boss house, 'Rote Huye Aate Hai Hum'. 
 
 Then   switched to the 'Baapcha TV' to watch the happenings inside the house. 
 
 On the previous day, Bigg Boss had announced a task for captaincy for which Jui and Pushkar were competing. Bigg Boss announced that both the competitors were given last 10 seconds to protect their line of blocks. And after the announcement, both the team members rushed to break the line of opposite teams. In this task, Jui won and was declared the captain of the house.
 
  was seen discussing with Smita that people in the house fight like animals as a result she doesn't feel like staying in the house anymore. 
 
 Sai spots Pushkar sleeping in the room, she wakes him up and asks him to do his work. Seeing this   felt that Sai was bossing around.
 
 Smita shouts at Sai as she is unable to find her shoe lace and Sai admits that she had cut Smita's shoe lace because she did the same with Sai's shoe lace during the chorr and police task.
 
 Mahesh interacts with all the contestants through ' ' and he asked Smita about her behaviour towards Usha. Usha said that Smita was trying to irritate her during the chorr and police task and so she abused Smita. 
 
 Mahesh then took up the topic of captaincy task. He asked Jui about what all happened during the task. Jui said, she got hurt during the task as Sai kicked her. On this, Sai said that Jui had thrown the blocks on her during the task. 
 
  then shouts at Resham in front of Mahesh saying that the latter flaunts her inner wear in front of boys. She said that the act is very cheap. 
 
 Resham said that her intention was not to flaunt anything. Infact the other team cheats while playing the task. On that Sai lost her temper and said, the opposite team always thinks that their team play the task fairly and Sai's team play unfair.
 Now the upcoming episode will decide who goes out of the game from the nominated five contestants, Sushant, Jui, Resham, Rajesh and Bhushan.
 
