JAIPUR: More hospitals in private sector than government hospitals are providing benefits of Bhamashah Swasthya Insurance Scheme (BSIS) in the state. The   has empanelled 707  for providing treatment to patients eligible for cashless treatment under BSIS. There are 506 government hospitals across the state, which are providing treatment to patients under the scheme.

 With Mukhya Mantri BPL Jeevan Raksha Yojana (MMJRK) to be discontinued from April 1, the health department has strengthened its network of hospitals giving benefit to patients under BSIS. According to the health department, there are 1,213 hospitals in the state— government and private as well, which are now forming a network of hospitals for providing cashless benefits to patients.
 
 
 For empanelment of private hospitals with BSIS, the state government takes an affidavit for no prosecution for negligence or violation of Acts of central and state government or professional medical ethics. Also, it demands   issued by municipal body to the hospitals.
 
 Also, a declaration of   for male and female patients in the hospital along with doctors and nurses qualification certificates is required for empanelment. Despite strict norms, the health department has succeeded in empanelling private hospitals for BSIS.
 
 BSIS was implemented in the state on December 13, 2015. Health minister   said so far more than 18lakh patients have benefitted from BSIS. Also, Rs 1,153 crore has already been spent on BSIS.
 
 On discontinuing MMJRK scheme, Saraf said that instructions have already been issued to hospitals to ensure that no BPL should be deprived of treatment. He said that free medicine scheme, free diagnostic scheme and BSIS are already in place to ensure that no one will be deprived of treatment.
 
 As per the new guidelines issued for phase II of BSIS, the state government has made 1,401 different kinds of health packages available in different hospitals empanelled with BSIS.
 
 Out of those, the government has made available 663 health packages in tertiary and 738 in secondary category of hospitals. Besides, 46 packages are reserved only for government hospitals, while 14 are reserved for private hospitals.
 
