MADURAI: “Manga pattani sundal” (mango greenpeas and cowpea) is one of the earliest known and most popular of Tamil Nadu’s snacks. So, it is no wonder that many make a living selling it in the streets, on beaches and wherever crowds gather. However,   has been at it for over a decade and his stock is sold in a jiffy, especially on rainy days.

 The 36-year-old from   says that he had been selling various evening roadside snacks for many years before deciding to concentrate only on boiled lentils, which people usually had no reservations on having as an evening snack. He established his shop at Keelavasal in front of  , a popular utensil store, with the result that most of the customers who came to the shop in the evening ended up snacking at his cart too. ``On an average, I earn around Rs 500 a day, which is more than sufficient to run my family and hence stuck to this trade for over 10 years,’’ says he.
 
 In the morning, he soaks the lentils with the help of his wife who later boils them to the right consistency. ``It should not be over-boiled or under-boiled and it is important that the seeds are cooked through so that people do not have problems digesting them,’’ he said.
 
 His cart has an assortment of side dishes which can be added to the boiled lentil based on customer preference while raw mango is finely chopped and topped on the paper cone into which the lentils are added. ``Some people like it spicy, some salty and some bland and I give it to them according to their preference,’’ he said.
 
 A  , 45 who works in a textile shop in the area, says this is not just a snack but a fulfilling meal. ``After a packet or two of the boiled lentils, I can have a light dinner later in the evening. His spices are really good,’’ he said. The shop opens at 7 pm and Shahul winds up around 10 by which time he would have sold over 200 to 300 packets of boiled gram. A packet of gram sells for Rs 10 whatever may be the addition but during summer he also sells water melon slices as a cooler.
 
 
