Nagpur: In a one of its kind initiative to ensure clean and hygienic   for the public, social organization Maitri Parivar, in collaboration with chef Vishnu Manohar, will launch a scheme Hygiene No 1 from Saturday.

 Giving details of the initiative on Friday, Pramod Pendke, president of the organization, told reporters, “Idea is to inculcate hygienic methods and habits among street food vendors, those selling food at railway platforms and Mangal karayalay kitchens where people in large numbers consume food.”
 
 The scheme involves a six-month monitoring of kitchens or places where these vendors and caterers prepare the food. Maitri Parivar will appoint teams of five to six members comprising doctors, lawyers, foodies to do the monitoring. “Though the food that is served to us appears appetizing, if we were to check the space where it has been prepared it would be dirty, messy and unhygienic,” said Pendke.
 
 The teams will visit the eateries on a weekly basis to improve conditions. “We have prepared a table of various heads like cleaning of the area, height of the platform on which food is prepared, use of clean cloth for wiping utensils, storage of raw materials and cooked items, cleanliness of refrigerators and deep freezers,” Manohar explained.
 
 For first three months visits will be made after informing them and the remaining three months there will be surprise visits. “After completion of six months, if there is 100% compliance for maintaining hygiene than a certificate of No 1 Hygiene will be issued to that establishment,” the chef added.
 
 The activity is free of cost and participation of eateries and food vendors is voluntary. “We are only investing our time, expertise, and concern to ensure good hygienic food is served to the public,” Sanjay Bhende of Maitri Parivar said.
 
 The idea is inspired from a similar initiative taken by Vaishali Gandhi in Ahmednagar. “We would like to extend this quality check initiative to other eateries too as mostly illiterate labourers are employed in this sector whose sense of cleanliness is very poor,” Manohar added.
 
 
