Noida: Multiplexes and theatres in Noida will screen a paid preview of Padmaavat on Wednesday evening and police are gearing up to intensify security around the entertainment hubs in the wake of the protests surrounding the movie’s release.

 Though the shows are scheduled from 6pm across several theatres, no official would go on record about the paid preview. The past few days have seen protests by the Karni Sena and similar outfits who have vowed not to allow the movie’s release.
 
 According to the websites, previews of the movie will be shown on Wednesday evening in GIP Mall, DLF Mall of India, Dharma Palace Mall, Logix Mall, and Wave Mall. The DLF Mall of India spokesperson declined comment on the movie show, so did the PVR Cinema spokesperson.
 
 Asked if the movie’s paid preview was being released on Wednesday evening, the PVR media coordinator said the information was available on the website.
 
 Arun Kumar Singh, SP (city) of Noida, said he had received letters requesting security for the movie’s official release from DLF Mall of India, Great India Palace, Logix Mall and the others.
 
 “We have made elaborate arrangements for security at these places. Police chowkis at Film City, DLF Mall and GIP have specially been sensitised. The district administration has already enforced Section 144,” he said.
 
 Singh pointed out that the Central Board of Film Certification and the Supreme Court had cleared the movie’s screening and anyone creating a ruckus over the film would be booked. “Nobody is above the law. We will ensure the movie’s screening is held peacefully.”
 
 Virendra Tyagi, the security in-charge of GIP Mall, said the paid review would be held as scheduled.
 
 “We have beefed up security on the premises. District administration officials and police personnel have also visited the campuses. Policemen in plain clothes have also been deployed. Overall, there is tight security on the premises,” Tyagi said.
 
 Noida police had arrested 16 persons and booked 200 others two days ago for vandalising the DND toll plaza demanding ban on the Sanjay Leela Bhansali movie.
 
 
