MUMBAI: Scores of commuters could be inconvenienced as   and Uber driver partners have threatened an indefinite strike from Monday. The city has more than 30,000 aggregator cabs. Many commuters prefer sharing app-based cabs to their workplace.

 The strike has been called by  , the transport wing of Raj Thackeray-led MNS. Union president Sanjay Naik told TOI thousands of driver partners are supporting the stir. “If we find any cab on the road after Sunday midnight, we will request the driver with folded hands. If he does not listen, we may handle the issue MNS-style,” he stated. Few unions, such as Sangharsh Tourist Chalak Malak Sangh, have opposed the stir but many drivers may stay off the roads due to fear of being attacked or cabs getting damaged, sources said.
  
  
 Police will step up bandobast and may invoke section 149 (unlawful assembly) to detain protestors if they take out a morcha to Ola and Uber offices, sources said. Stringent action could be taken in case of violence, a senior inspector said. Transport officials have appealed to Kaali Peeli and autorickshaw unions, and BEST, to operate more vehicles, especially on office-going routes.
 
 An Ola spokesperson said, “We have been informed by   that they have pro-actively taken all necessary steps to ensure the safety of commuters during cab rides in the city.” Aggregator firms have also sought police protection for drivers who may want to operate.
 
 Sandesh Kulkarni, a regular user of aggregator cabs, said Ola and Uber were a convenient mode of transport besides getting AC rides in summer cheaper than Kaali Peeli taxis. “I am worried that the strike will be indefinite and affect several commuters,” he said The protestors are demanding better earnings and more monthly incentives as some are living a hand-to-mouth existence, said Naik. A driver partner said, “We want guaranteed income of Rs 1.5 lakh per month as monthly earnings have dropped to less than Rs30,000. We want money to pay EMIs on car loans, besides operational costs. Many tourists taxis have switched to outstation trips or rental business.” Driver partners are also demanding security.
 
 Union leaders said that drivers in other cities like New Delhi, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Pune among others would also be participating in the strike.
 
