AHMEDABAD: Twenty-nine years after their illegal conduct, two policemen will have to face trial for framing a whistleblower in a false narcotic drugs case.   high court has refused to drop charges against them.

 According to case details, Arun Purohit was booked for keeping narcotics in his shop at   village near   in 1989. Purohit was an elected panchayat member and was fighting to curb illegal activities going on in the village. He came into conflict with police officials. His shop was raided one day and   found charas in his shop.
 
 While Purohit was facing the trial, he made a complaint against policemen – then   Ramesh Lashkari and his subordinate Jabbarali   – that they had planted drugs in his shop in order to frame him. A judicial magistrate ordered CID (crime) to conduct an inquiry but the policemen were exonerated. The court also upheld the summary report.
 
 On the other hand, Purohit was acquitted by a sessions court which also made serious observations hinting that the contraband drug was planted in his shop. These observations had an impact on the complaint made by Purohit against the cops. Purohit challenged the magisterial court upholding the clean chit given to the cops. A sessions court quashed the lower court’s order and directed that a trial be conducted against Lashkari and Saiyed for allegedly providing false information to the court, for fabricating evidence and for framing a person by levelling false charges against him.
 
 Finding themselves in the soup, both the police officials claimed protection from criminal proceedings under Section 197 of the CrPC, on the ground that they had booked Purohit as part of their duty and that they could not be prosecuted without sanction from the government. But the trial court was not ready to accept their contention. They did not challenge this order for long.
 
 When the trial court refused to discharge them from the case, the two cops approached the high court. The high court kept it open for them to raise the issue of prosecution sanction with the trial court. But the HC said: “In any case, the act of planting narcotic drugs at the place of an innocent citizen can never be termed as an official duty for which prior sanction is warranted to prosecute such persons. If at all, all the conspirators are not identified by the investigating agency, then the persons, i.e., present petitioners, who are available and who have helped in the conspiracy to book Purohit under   Act can never escape their liability of being charge-sheeted and tried by competent court in accordance with the law.”
 
 
