BHUBANESWAR: In a bid to prevent home guards from being penalized harshly and losing their jobs, the state government has asked the district SPs to refrain from straightaway dismissal of home guards in case of petty misconduct or negligence of duty. 

  has seen a recent letter of DGP (fire services and home guards) B K   to SPs, asking them to properly follow the procedures of   home guards Act 1961 before initiating disciplinary action against home guards. “It is often seen that in case of negligence or misconduct, home guards are promptly dismissed from service whereas the commandant (SP) has the authority to also suspend and impose fine up to Rs fifty only,” the letter read. 
 
 The state has over 15,000 home guards, who work as auxiliary force of Odisha police and are paid as per duty per-day. Over 1,000 home guards were dismissed from service across the state in the last two years. 
 
 Sharma said in many cases district commandants often chose the extreme step of disciplinary action (dismissal from service) on erring home guards for their misconducts, which could have been settled through lenient punishments like suspension and imposition of fine. “I came across a large number of complaints where the dismissed home guards alleged they were not given opportunity to put forth our defence in writing. Many of them were not aware that they could appeal against the punishments near different appellate authorities like commandant (SPs), deputy commandant general (DIGs) and commandant general (DGP – home guards),” Sharma told TOI. “Our objective is to treat home guards with dignity. They are an inalienable part of Odisha police,” Sharma said. 
 
 In the letter, Sharma asked commandants not to be harsh on home guards if they remain absent on duty on health grounds or in emergency situations. “I have asked commandants to examine the cause of absence. Home guards must submit medical report if they remain absent for three months on health ground,” Sharma said. The letter further read: “Commandants shall have the discretion to treat a period of absence of home guards in duty beyond three months as a reasonable cause for action.” 
 
 Home guards allege they are treated like deadwood by police in different districts. “We work like police personnel and are deployed in emergency situations to assist the law enforcing agencies. But we are not treated like police personnel. Last year, some of our colleagues were humiliated in full public view in   and forced to kneel down for misconduct,” said  , president of   (Bhubaneswar). To ensure improvement of professional skills, the government has planned a series of training and motivational trainings for home guards. 
 
