NEW DELHI: The   on Monday sought a status report from a committee appointed by it to look into the treatment of people bitten by stray dogs in the state and their claims of compensation. 

 A bench comprising Chief Justice   and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y   directed the three-member committee headed by a former   high court judge to file the report in four weeks after it was alleged that the dog bite victims, despite being awarded the compensation by the panel, had not yet been paid by the state government.
 
 The bench has sought details of the victims of dog bites who have been awarded the compensation, but not yet received it.
 
 The panel, headed by former judge Justice S S Jagan, had earlier told the court that over one lakh people in the state have been bitten by dogs in 2015-16, while warning that frequent stray dog attacks on children in the state had created a dangerous situation.
 
 "India is a nation with substantial fatal rabies cases, mainly due to stray dog bites. Kerala is estimated to have a stray dog population of 2.5 lakhs, which feed lavishly on the waste and garbage. Frequent stray dog attacks on children in Kerala have created a dangerous situation. There have been incidents of stray dogs chasing, attacking and biting school children, aged persons, pedestrians, morning walkers and two-wheeler riders...More than one lakh people in the state have been bitten by dogs in 2015-16," the panel, which also comprised the state law secretary and the director health services, had said in its earlier report.
 
 The apex court had expressed unhappiness over the increasing cases of dog bites in Kerala and asked the state government to take steps to ensure that such cases are checked.
 
 The Kerala government had last year informed the court that Justice S S Jagan committee has been considering and deciding on the claims of the victims of dog bites and so far, 154 such claims, out of total 752, have been decided and 18 compensation claims already settled.
 
 It had said that the state government has asked district panchayats to earmark two to three acre plots in every panchayats to set up of 'dog zoos'.
 
 The court had asked the government to take action on the reports of the Justice Jagan committee on award of compensation to  . The bench had said the key issue to be decided was whether the Dog Rules, 2001, framed by the central government under the mandate of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 would override state laws on curbing the menace of lethal stray canines. agencies 
 
 
