BENGALURU: After sitting over   for nearly a year, the   is rushing through the processes to buy key items — handheld and  ,  , ECG machines, nebulizers, and even stethoscopes — that would go a long way in modernizing jails.

 While the allocations were made in the budget 2017-18 presented in March 2017, the approvals for purchase only came through earlier this month. In a hurry to use up the allocations and not allow them to lapse, the department floated   and selected the lowest financial bids for this purpose.
 
 Rules mandate that allocation should be utilized within the financial year i.e. March 31, 2017, in this case.
 
 The District Supply and Marketing Cooperative Society, Bengaluru, was selected to supply digital blood pressure checking apparatuses, digital thermometers, glucometers, nebulizers and digital weighing machines, among other things. According to the government order, this is being done in an attempt to modernize and upgrade the existing infrastructure in jails. 
 
 The Rs 23.5lakh worth purchases will be distributed among 57 prisons of different types, including central, district and taluk prisons.
 
 Another order has been issued for the purchase of 300 handheld metal detectors and 40 door frame metal detectors for 60 jails. A company called Secomtech Solutions will be providing the equipment at a cost of Rs 61.86lakh, against a sanctioned amount of Rs 55.62lakh.
 
 As many as 12 prisons will get steam cooking equipment at a cost of Rs 1.77crore. These will be supplied by Kalkuri Refrigeration and Kitchen Equipment Pvt Ltd, Udupi, and Bengaluru and Tumakuru central prisons will get two each.
 
 Additional DG (Prisons) NS Megharikh said: “We’d called for tenders in November too, but the response — relating to technical qualifications — was not too good. We cannot just procure anything, there are procedures to be followed, which is why the re-tendering was done and now we’ve finalized it. We’ve already used up nearly 99% of the previous year’s budget, a lot of work has been happening.”
 
  ON SHOPPING LIST
 
 ITEM
 
 QUANTITY
 
 ECG 
 
 13
 
 Digital BP
 
 63
 
 Digital thermometer
 
 60
 
 Stethoscope 
 
 60
 
 Digital Pulse Oximeter
 
 20
 
 Digital weighing machine
 
 58
 
 Glucometer
 
 42
 
 Nebulizer
 
 43
 
 Normal BP machine
 
 52
 
 
