MUMBAI: A   station at the domestic airport terminal has been   to save almost 50 trees, including a 100-year  . The stations with a length of 196m are probably the shortest for an 8-coach metro train.

 Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), which is executing the Metro III underground corridor, had received approval from the tree authority for transplantation of almost 112 trees. But MMRC officials decided to save the trees by changing the design even though preliminary work had begun.
 
 The banyan tree has a girth of 40 feet and is almost 20m tall. An official said, “The tree is a sanctuary for various birds. We have been taking regular care by watering and providing nutrients to the soil. Project director S K Gupta and MD Ashwini Bhide told us to do all to save this tree.”
 
 A lot of thought had to be put in at the planning and execution. He said, “The lowest level at the which the branch falls is 5m. Hence, the contractor,  , made use of a micro-tunnelling technique with the boom having a height of 6m. In conventional technology, the height of the boom is 12m, which can damage the tree branches. Also, the diameter of the secant piles was restricted to 350mm instead of 800mm so that it does not damage the tree’s roots.”
 
 MMRC has also ensured a gap of 8m between the tree and station boundary to avoid any danger. The station, being built at a depth of 29m, is one of the deepest. Apart from the platform and concourse area,   (MIAL) has plans to build a 10-storey building with three levels of basement.
 
 The official said, “Since the foundation could not be changed, we decided to shift the back-off offices like ventilation shaft and air-conditioning system to other parts of the station from the platform end.”
 
 The average length of the station is 240m but this station was planned at 216m. He said, “The platform length is 180m and the balance is used for back-off offices. Since we decided to restrict the length of the station to 196, we shifted the back-off offices to another part of the station.” This was possible because the station areas has a width of 20m, enough to house these components.
 
 MMRC also decided to shift the entry exit point to save more trees at this site.
 
 Average length of stations for 8-coach Metro train | 240m
 
 Average length fixed at domestic airport | 216m
 
 Length at which station is being built | 197m
 
 Why | To save banyan tree, which is 100-years-old and has a girth of 40ft and height of 20m
 
 
