CHENNAI: Eight years after work began under the   scheme for providing piped   and   (USS) to 497 streets of  , the project is far from over. 

 It was sanctioned in 2008 at a cost of Rs 24.24 crore under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission and was aimed at meeting a demand of 15MLD of water to the Ullagaram-Puzhuthivakkam area, comprising 497 streets in divisions 168 and 169 of the corporation, by 2030. While almost 90% of the construction of the USS is complete, roadblocks arose last October which has delayed the work. 
 
 The piped water supply has been commissioned in three areas covering 196 streets namely MG Nagar, Puzhuthivakkam bus stand and Arul Jothi Nagar, while work has not started in the remaining four areas. 
 
 “The contractor for water supply pipeline work was terminated abruptly and tenders were finalised two months back. But work orders have not been given till date. Nearly 300 streets are bereft of a proper USS after all these years and we have to shell out hefty amounts for sewerage disposal. Many people let their   out in open land and on roads,” said P Ramasamy, a resident of the area.
 
 Residents are at the mercy of water tankers and tankers for disposal of sewage.
 
 “We pay Rs 1,700 usually for a tanker’s trip to dispose of sewage. It depends on the price they say. For water also, we shell out Rs 600 for a 9,000 litre supply from   tankers. Private tankers charge depending on the demand,” said G V Srinivasan, president of the Balaji Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association.
 
 “The officials told us last year that the projects will be over by April. When April arrived, the deadline was pushed to June and later, they said it was delayed because of the rain. We are fed up,” he added. 
 
 Metrowater officials, when contacted, said that the USS work was hit by the delay caused in getting permission from the Public Works Department and the highways department.
 
 “For works near Veerangal Odai, we were awaiting permission from the PWD. After we got permission in October, we resumed work till the rains hit the city. A similar problem was faced with a 70m stretch belonging to the highways. Besides, the kind of soil in the region is also causing delays. We are expecting the remaining USS work to be completed in the next three months,” said an official.
 
 The piped supply project tendering is under evaluation, the official added.
 
 
