KOLKATA: If the prediction by Met office hits the target, the city may finally get the year’s first thundershower on Friday.

 An anti-cyclonic circulation brewing over the   is expected to trigger rain and thunderstorm in Kolkata and other Gangetic on Friday. This system has already injected abundant moisture into the air.
 
  
 “Because of the moisture injected by this system over Bay of Bengal, there has been could formation. We expect light rain in isolated areas and there may be a thunderstorm on Friday,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director general (meteorology) at the Regional Institute of Meteorology.
 
 The cloud cover has already dragged the maximum temperature down by almost 3°C on Thursday — from Wednesday’s 37.5°C to Thursday’s 34.8°C.
 
 The current weather system over Bay of Bengal, accompanied by a cyclonic circulation over   and Jharkhand combined with a feeble high pressure belt over the Odisha coast, churned out dense fog that crippled Kolkata airport for two hours on Thursday morning. Between 5.30am and 7.30am, five departing flights were delayed and three arriving were diverted as operations had to be suspended with visibility dropping below 50 metre.
 
 “The weak high-pressure belt over the Odisha coast led to incursion of moisture from the Bay of Bengal, which was then cooled by the cyclonic circulation to lower the temperature and make conditions ripe for fog,” said GC Debnath, the weatherman at Kolkata airport.
 
 A Jet Airways flight from Guwahati to Kolkata was sent back at 6.17am. An Air Asia flight from Delhi to Kolkata was also diverted to Guwahati at 6.38am. Guwahati again played host to a   flight from Bangkok that was diverted from Kolkata at 6.24am. All the flights later returned to Kolkata. IndiGo flights to Jaipur, Bengaluru, Guwahati and Chennai and a Jet Airways flights to Port Blair were also delayed. After 7.30am, visibility improved rapidly to reach 900 metre by 8am. Flight operations resumed by 7.40am but the ripple effect of the delays and diversions were felt till late morning.
 
 “Dum Dum experiences around three-four days of fog every March. Last March was an exception as there was no fog-related delay. But the atmospheric conditions were such on Thursday that sufficient moisture from Bay of Bengal engulfed the city and its cooling led to fog. Visibility will improve on Friday as cloud cover is expected over the next 24 hours,” said Debnath.
 
 Apart from the morning fog, Kolkata also came across worst PM 2.5 concentration in the air on Thursday. The PM2.5 count was unusually high throughout the day. It was three times the permissible limit of 60µg/m3 . Usually in summer, it hovers around 70 to 80 on a worst day.
 
