PUNE: The state government does not see “land acquisition for the proposed” international airport at   as a hurdle because it will be done with the consent of landowners and the target for the facility’s operations will be 2020-21.

 
  
 
 Chief minister   on Monday told TOI that he did not foresee land acquisition as an issue for the proposed airport. Responding to a text message, he said, “Land acquisition is mostly based on consent. So, it shouldn’t be a very big problem.”
 
 The chief minister had earlier pushed for the direct land acquisition model, but said they were still figuring out various options. The notification for the airport’s land acquisition is yet to be issued.
 
 Four proposals have been floated for the land acquisition: the direct purchase system; giving developed land and compensation to land losers; giving partnership to the affected people in the airport company; and giving alternative land.
 
 The state government officials stated that the model to be implemented would be decided and a GR would be issued after discussions with the authorities of the Maharashtra Airport Development Company ( ) and the district administration.
 
 When asked about the “direct purchase” model the chief minister had mentioned earlier for speeding up the project, a revenue official said they were still figuring out how it would be done. He said he would not like to comment on the issue at this state in the “interest of the project”.
 
 Some other officials of the government stated that all possible modes of finance would be tapped and whoever offering the lowest rate of interest would be considered for the project.
 
 The government last week cleared Rs3,513 crore as financial approval for the project. But the land acquisition will commence only after the MADC is appointed as the Special Planning Authority (SPA). A notification on the model of land acquisition would have to be issued also, added the revenue official.
 
 According to officials, the SPA status proposal is pending with the urban development department. The town planning department would have to give its sanction to it. It has received the sanction from the PMRDA ( ).
 
 Collector Naval Kishore Ram, who will be the executing agency of the land acquisition for the airport, said he was waiting for a request from MADC to the district administration to acquire land for the airport. “Once the government decides on the model, we are confident we can execute it in the stipulated time frame. The models proposed will be discussed with the villagers, too,” he added.
 
 
