KOHIMA: A man born to rule,   has led two parties to victory in his four-decade-long career.  's richest legislator is a man with an iron will, who fought his way back after being sidelined by his own party last year. 

 The 67-year-old leader's political journey began in the 1970s, when he became president of the youth wing of United Democratic Front's Kohima district unit. He was educated at the Baptist English School here and then Sainik School in Purulia, West Bengal. He stayed on in West Bengal for higher education, studying at St Joseph's College in Darjeeling before returning to Nagaland, where he studied at Kohima Arts College.
 
 The first time Rio was elected as a legislator was in 1989, when he contested as a Congress candidate from Northern Angami II. The constituency would become his bastion - he has represented it seven times. He spent 13 years with Congress, serving as minister in the SC Jamir government in 1998. His relations with Jamir turned sour and he walked out of the ministry and the party. 
 
 He joined Naga People's Front, which called itself Nagaland People's Council until 2002, and led the party to victory in 2003, not unlike the winning formula he brought to the table for NDPP this time. As he did this time, he stitched together a coalition of NPF, BJP and JD (U) then. In the 15 long years he spent as an NPF leader, he served as chief minister thrice - from 2003 to 2014. 
 
 When he decided to contest the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, he vacated the chief minister's post and made way for TR Zeliang, then his right-hand man. In the four years that followed, Nagaland saw power change hands far too often. Some say it was Rio who engineered the rifts to pave the way for his re-entry into state politics. Last year, as NPF struggled to overcome its factional differences, political instability intensified. When Zeliang and the other NPF stalwart, Shurhozelie Liezietsu set aside their differences to come together before the election, one man was left behind - Rio. And he did not take it kindly.
 
 Rumours about Rio backing a new party, NDPP, remained rumours no longer when he joined it as the party president, severing his ties with NPF. With a succinct motto of 'facta non verba' (actions speak louder than words), NDPP reached out to the Naga people with a promise of progress and peace. Having consolidated his position as BJP's most trusted ally, he secured the winning numbers once again this election and managed to command the trust of the majority, despite not leading the single largest party. 
 
 
