 of the FDCI-presented fashion week in Delhi was high on drama. The fashion gala saw many popular faces from the glamour industry and Delhi's social circle. Union Cabinet Minister of Textiles and Information & Broadcasting Smriti Irani was also spotted at Madhu Jain's show.

  
 The designer duo presented the collection keeping a young bride’s trousseau for a beach wedding in mind. From jumpsuits to zipper saris, lehengas and gowns, the collection had a wide range of designs. The quirky sunglasses that the models sported were also appreciated by the guests.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 The collection, in biodegradable bamboo-silk ikat, included intricately embroidered saris, trousers and salwar-kurtas. The colour palette, reflecting the changing season, ranged from soft buff to the more flamboyant amber, chestnut, burnt umber, and cerise.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Taking inspiration from the Gond art of Madhya Pradesh, Aartivijay Gupta showcased a tribal collection on Day 3 of the fashion week. Gond paintings were modified in wearable easy comfortable silhouettes. The collection had quirky gowns and dresses teamed with crop and longline jackets, saris teamed with balloon sleeve blouses, trousers and shirts and kurtas.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The collection included tailored boxy suit; wine jackets with gathers all around, kimono-styled trench dresses and trousers, checkered wrap dresses, skirts with longline shirts and bell-sleeve kurtas. Singh played with different shades of pink, white and grey.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The group show put up by six designers, who showcased eight designs each, was a presentation of different looks - from casual, chic to cocktail. The show began with a small musical performance, followed by a showcase by Anju Modi. Moving away from subtle shades like white and beiges, the designer presented on ramp colours like wine red, bottle green. Kurtas and tops with asymmetrical hems paired with dhoti drape skirts and pants were the highlight of the collection. Next was a show by designer Eshaa Amiin. Bejewelled sunglasses that models sported were as much liked as her designs by the guests. Belts were an important part of her collection. Designer Gaurav Jai Gupta is known for his interesting fabric texturing and this time the designer showcased designs with interesting print patterns. Designer Nida Mahmood is known for adding some drama to her ramp shows and this was no different. While the designs were casual and simple, masks covering faces of models and Bollywood numbers added some drama to her show. Designer Shruti Sancheti showcased a line with pleated skirts, tops and straight and loose-fit dresses with subtle embroidery. Last part of the show was eight garments by Schulen Fernandes for Wendell Rodricks. It was a cocktail collection in white with a subtle hint of Baroque.
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Tom Tailor showcased three themes at the fashion gala, Historic Romance, Boss Girl, Rock and Frock.
 Playful, easy and romantic, Historic Romance celebrated Indian summer. The collection featured a lot of ruffles and lace details, blouses with flower embroideries and velvet fabrics.
 Boss Girl had various looks perfect for all occasions. The designer explored dark colours such as black and dark blue juxtaposed with deep red with details of light blue and rosé in this collection.
 Rock and Frock was a combination of the first two collections. It had bomber jacket, jogger pants and many easy going outfits.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The designers used khadi for this collection and gave it an urban look . A lot of old wire inspired linear cord embroidery was also used. Dots and stripes were combined to create geometric patterns. A lot of layering done to create winter looks. The colour palette ranged from darker shades of blue to maroon, bright yellow and pastels.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
