LUCKNOW: Every year, around 15,000 patients requiring immediate trauma services due to road traffic accidents (RTA) are brought in at   and Balrampur hospital.

 In fact, exactly 50% of the total patients treated at KGMU’s trauma centre from January 2017 to December 2017 were RTA victims. Moreover, they belonged to the young age group of 15 to 40 years.
 
 
 As many as 1,223 RTA patients came to KGMU’s trauma centre for emergency medical services in March 2018 alone. Balrampur hospital saw about 750. This means that around 40 RTA victims come to KGMU daily and about 25 to Balrampur hospital.
 
 At KGMU’s trauma centre, 45% of those killed or injured in road accidents are either riders or pillion riders on two-wheelers. Most of them were without a helmet.
 
 This data is now being collected as part of a multi-centric national task force project by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for which KGMU has been selected as one of the five centres in the country.
 
 Titled ‘an intervention
 
 study on comprehensive emergency care and trauma registry for road traffic injuries in India’, the study includes four other medical centres: AIIMS Delhi and the top trauma facilities of Bengaluru, Gujarat and Maharashtra.
 
 “Data will be collected in three phases of six months each. These will be pre-training of hospital staff, during training and post training, so that a module for hospital treatment in RTA cases and ambulance guideline can be made,” said the head of KGMU’s trauma surgery department Prof Sandeep Tiwari.
 
 With the majority of cases being those of two-wheeler riders without the helmet or any protective gear, head injuries constitute about 70% of these cases. The mortality rate attached to these head injury patients ranges between 80% and 85%.
 
 A previous study by the orthopaedic department of KGMU had revealed that in a sample size of 256 patients, only 16% of RTA victims were wearing helmets. Moreover, only 4% of these victims had an ISI-mark sturdy helmet.
 
 It was also observed that 35 of these people died during treatment and 36 others were discharged with some sort of a permanent disability.
 
 “Almost 60% of the total RTA patients we get are head injury cases and the remaining are orthopaedic injuries,” said director of Balrampur hospital Dr Rajeev Lochan.
 
 Prof Tiwari of KGMU said, “About 70% of the patients who reach us come on their own while only 30% are brought by an ambulance.”
 
