Last year was chaotic for  . She was pregnant with Inaaya, started writing her first book and began work on her production company. Some of these were conscious efforts she took to forge an identity of her own, which is different from that of the royal family she belongs to. In town for a literary festival, the bookworm-turned-writer spoke about being moderately famous in her famous family, why marriage was never important for her and how motherhood has changed her completely. Excerpts: 

 
 
 
 My grandparents’ residence was on Alipore Road, so we used to spend a lot of time there. I have memories of playing in that flat,  , my mother’s best friends who I am going to see now — Sunita and Naresh Kumar. We used play in their house with their children who are older than us... we used to stay up in the night and play cricket outdoors. Then there are work memories too... of  .
 
 
 
 
 Antarmahal (2005) was one of the early films that I did with Rituda; at that time, I didn’t know the techniques too well. He really taught me so much, even if it was about looking across the room at someone — you could look at that person directly or you could take your time with it, raise your eyes gently, flirt with the camera, be sensuous about it or the movement could be languid... He was one of those directors who taught me how to perform a scene as he was a very good actor himself; he would enact a scene just the way he wanted it to be performed. For someone like me who was still learning, it was very useful.
 
 
 
 It was not about losing connect at all; at that point, I didn’t receive a good offer. I was flirting with the idea of doing a film — Aparna Sen was making one, Goutam Ghose was making one — it never materialised and I forgot why. I have always said some of the finest filmmakers in the country have come out of Bengal. Now too, I have the same interest in Bengali films. I met Srijit (Mukherji) and Tonyda ( ) and always expressed the desire to work in a good film with a good director; now many are coming to Bollywood to make Hindi movies as well. Sometimes they don’t understand that you want to work in Bengali cinema or maybe they feel you are not interested and therefore they don’t approach you. 
 
 
 
 
 I have hardly watched a film in a pretty long time. Last year was hectic — I was pregnant, Inaaya was born, I started writing a book that took most of my time, then I was also opening a production company. I have to confess that I lost out on the opportunity of watching some good films in 2017.
 
 
 
 I am quite comfortable in my own skin and I am also a secure person. So, I was always aware that I come from a famous family, my parents are superstars in their chosen professions and so is my brother, my sister-in-law… my nephew is now a social media celebrity. I understood that and accepted that as a part of my life but then there are facets to my personality that are entirely my own. Even within the film industry people have now accepted the fact that I am trying to forge my own identity and doing my own thing and it’s different from my brother. I also got encouraging feedback for my first book. The family you are born into is by chance and I am fortunate to be born into this family and be connected to some really cool people.
 
 
 
 I got very good feedback from within the family, especially from my mother who read the book from cover to cover, my brother too has read it… my mother has been asking me to write a book for such a long time but it always seemed like a daunting challenge, writing 40,000 words! But I managed and I am quite happy with it.
 
 
 
 
 I absolutely think so. In fact, both of my parents have incredible stories to tell; I have only touched upon them in the book. My father’s in terms of the change of political fortune, India becoming an independent country, dissolution of the princely states to the losing of his eye, battle in cricket and falling in love with Sharmila Tagore. My mother’s in terms of her rise to fame from an arguably more middle-class background, moving to Mumbai, meeting the captain of the Indian team and the whirlwind romance there, having children at a young age and managing a successful career even after that. So there are loads of interesting things in their lives to be chronicled. Things are forgotten if you don’t write them down. So, there should be a book.
 
 
 
 I think I am too close to the subjects in this case. A lot of these biographies are written by children, but I don’t know how seriously they are taken as you need to be respectful and critical and know how much to say and what to leave out… I think I can write particular kinds of stories about them, but I don’t know if I am the right person to write the full stories. In my father’s case, someone with a good knowledge of cricket should write the book; I can do the research. 
 
 
 
 We don’t see every film of each other’s. Bhai has of course seen Rang De Basanti and the other film that he saw and loved was the lesser known Soundtrack. I have seen Kaalakaandi and Chef, but I haven’t seen   among his recent films. He read my book as he is an avid reader. As a family, we believe in constructive criticism, yeh nahin ki ‘sabash beta, bahut badiya’. My mother too is like that. Sometimes it’s hard to digest because the feedback you are getting is not always good. But it’s helpful as it’s coming from a good place. You can choose to incorporate some of those suggestions.
 
 
 
 I think it’s very scary what happened with Padmavat. It’s not a conducive atmosphere for making a film, when all you want to do is tell a story, fiction or non-fiction. I understand that some people can take offense to a subject matter but as someone who believes in freedom of speech and expression and is an artiste, I believe in being able to express that in a non-violent way, without issuing threats to actors and filmmakers, that’s not an atmosphere where you want to work in, it will make people fearful and it will not allow makers to come up with stories they want to tell. That’s really sad.
 
 
 
 Motherhood has changed me completely; you are not in control of yourself. I am someone who is so much in control of my diet, of my schedule and now I have no control of my life; Inaaya is in complete control of everything. What I eat is dependent on her, when I can sleep is dependent on her, when I can go to work is dependent on her and how much work I can do is dependent on her. My life is not my own anymore. About marriage, Kunal and I always maintained that marriage was an irrelevant institution for us, it didn’t matter if we got married or not because we had made a promise of sorts to each other and wondered why we needed to involve the government in that! It’s the stability of a relationship that gets you going and it’s more complicated in terms of paperwork if want to get out. But if it’s paperwork that’s keeping two people together, then that’s not the kind of marriage you want to be in. Irrespective of children, we didn’t want to get married and since it did not matter to us if we got married or not, and because it made so many people happy just to see us marry, we got married. We got married for others, we were happy ourselves.
 
 
 
 He better be. He is at home today with Inaaya. He is very good with her. I am always like why is she crying, has she not eaten enough, is she not sleeping enough, we haven’t played with her enough today… he is very relaxed. Earlier, I would cry every time she cried and he would be like, ‘Do I look after her or do I look after you? She at least doesn’t know why she is crying, but why are you crying?’ So, he would really handle two children… I was new and terrified. Inaaya is now three-and-a-half months, but it still feels very new to me.
 
 
 We liked the way it sounds. It means grace of God and serenity. I was offered very few names. Kunal was coming up with all kinds of names and I was shooting them down. Then this one struck me, it’s soft-sounding and unique. I now know so many Inaayas, so and so’s daughgter is called Inaaya, but still it’s not so common.
 
 
 
