VADODARA: Despite scorching heat, several are flocking to a pizza restaurant on  . But, all aren't going to gorge on pizzas. In fact, many are carrying food and others medicines for  , a labrador. 

 
 Around a fortnight ago, Satyavan, a delivery boy at the restaurant, noticed the labrador being attacked by stray dogs near   building on   Road when he had gone to deliver pizza. Satyavan then called up restaurant owner   and informed her about the scene. "When Satyavan scared away the stray dogs, the labrador quickly climbed on his bike and refused to get down," said Brahmbhatt, who rushed there and took the dog to a veterinary doctor as it was badly injured and bleeding profusely.
 
 The labrador was then kept at her restaurant on Vasna-Bhayli road where again some stray dogs tried to harass it. Two days later, Brahmbhatt started making efforts to trace its owner. She took the dog to the same place where it was found and inquired with security guards of several residential apartments if any pet had gone missing. "Though the guards denied seeing any missing dog, I gave them my mobile number in case anyone came forward," she told TOI.
 
 Around five days ago, somebody posted a picture and message of a missing labrador on Facebook. Several people then thronged Brahmbhatt's restaurant claiming ownership of the dog. "However, nobody could provide any evidence to prove the ownership. In fact, a resident of Ahmedabad too came calling but when he met the dog, he realized that it was not his missing labrador," Brahmbhatt added.
 
 Finally, they named it Marco and this four-year-old has found a new home with several caretakers. "Whenever someone would go near it, Marco would bite them. Even I am not able to go near it as it gets aggressive and has already bitten my husband," she said. 
 
 Marco feels comfortable with his original saviour Satyavan. "It goes to his house and whenever he comes to work, it comes with him. He does not harm Satyavan So at present, only he is able to control him," she said. Marco too has started responding when called by his name.
 
