NAGPUR:   of the city have joined hands to form an organization that will help the needy elderly people and provide free skill training to underprivileged children and unemployed youths. The initiative has been taken as part of discharging duty towards society.

 ‘Veterans’ India, Nagpur’, to be launched at a function at Barrister   building, Tilak Road, Mahal, on Sunday, will address the problems of various segments of the society. 
 
 Madhav Kukday, retired judge of the district court and founder of the organization said, promotion of culture and traditions of the country will be undertaken. Committees will be formed to look after elderly citizens while children and youths who are not financially stable will be trained in various disciplines so that they could earn their livelihood. 
 
 Different events and workshops will be held to create awareness about social responsibilities of citizens. The organization will have elderly persons as members while the younger ones will join the team as volunteers, Kukday said. 
 
 “Primarily, we are focusing on creating awareness about different cultures of the country and its promotion; providing education to the less fortunate, and looking after aged citizens and making them feel to be part of the society and at home,” he said.
 
 Under the third category, some five to six elders from a particular area who stay alone or have been left to their fate by their relatives will be brought together as part of the family. Volunteers of the organization will look after their health or financial stability, he said. 
 
 Members and volunteers will impart skill development programmes in different fields such as carpentry, agriculture, technical knowledge and many others free of cost under the education category. There are plans to bring about a change in the society and fight social evils like ignorance and corruption, Kukday added.
 
 Several other projects have been lined up under which more members will reach the masses to achieve the goals of the organization, he added. 
 
 
