CHANDIGARH: The two-year-old project of installing security cameras at Manimajra’s  , which the police department had recommended, hasn’t got off the ground because the resident welfare association (RWA) is short of money and now hoping that local member of Parliament   remembers her promise of assistance from last year.

 In 2016, when the crime rate increased in the area, the station house officer (SHO) concerned conducted a survey in the area to find out what all could be done to control the incidents. Based on the survey, the police officer wrote to the Modern Housing Complex resident welfare association to install at least 150 CCTV (closed-circuit television) cameras to contain theft and snatching.
 
 Another recommendation was to increase the number of security cameras all over  , for better monitoring of the crime-prone areas. As the RWA does not have the financial muscle to accomplish this huge task, it had approached the MP for financial assistance and she had even promised it during her one of the visits to the area. But as no further action was taken on it, the RWA sent a reminder to her for releasing the money for the CCTV cameras.
 
 Recently, the MHC resident welfare association sent a reminder to the member of Parliament. It is to be seen if Kirron Kher, who had assured them last year that she will release this money from her local-area development fund, honours her commitment. The RWA’s communication to the MP states that the standard of security is deteriorating day by day in the area. The problem is aggravated because the boundary walls are breached at many places and the   authority has failed to plug these openings despite numerous complaints and official meetings.
 
 Residents requested for a provision of 150 recommended CCTV cameras to control this crime. They have referred to the police survey in their request.   president Colonel   said that after this reminder to the MP, an team of officials from the engineering department had visited the area and sought details of the police recommendations about installing CCTV cameras in the area.
 
 He claimed to have gathered from the officials that the department planned to conduct another survey about the proposal in order to draft a report that will be filed to the deputy commissioner’s office and based on which money will be release from the MP’s discretionary fund. Of course, the MP will also have to recommend it. He said the engineering department will work out estimated cost of implementing this project.
 
 Of the 150 recommended CCTV cameras, the station house officer had wanted a maximum around the unauthorised holes made into the boundary wall.
 
 
