NAGPUR: The eighth edition of Buddha Festival was inaugurated at   with a host of activities including performers from abroad. The nine-day festival, which started with art exhibitions and film screenings on February 17, got off to a formal start on Wednesday.

 The evening began with the presentation of the festival’s theme song by members of Aarohi Singing Choir. This was followed by a presentation by Alan Senauke from Berkeley in USA. Speaking about his connect with the festival, Senauke, who has been teaching Buddhism and Ambedkar thoughts at Naglok School in the city, said, “I practise   and consider Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar as my hero.” 
 
 Playing a guitar, he presented the song ‘We shall not be moved’ which was popular during the civil rights movement in the United states in the sixties. “It is a religious song which has got rewritten according to the situations prevailing in those times. Here in India, I too have changed the words a bit to say, ‘With Buddha and Ambedkar, we shall not be moved’’ he told the audience.
 
 A music video Maitri Geet was also released on the occasion which featured a song ‘Raho sukhanay ha manav ithe’ which has been composed and directed by Anil Kawade. The video has been shot on the members of Nagpur Buddhist Centre, a unit of   that organizes the festival.
 
 A   recital by Sheikh Ainoddin Warsi, a disciple of Pt. Ronu Mazumdar, was also a part of the presentations. He began with raag Hansadhwani in madhya lay teen taal and also played old Buddhist songs like ‘Namaskar ghava aho Buddha’, ‘Amrutwani hi Buddha chi’ and ‘Om namo Tathagata’ on the flute. Accompanying him on tabla was   and Anil Kawade was on the keyboard.
 
 The evening ended with a dance performance by Vibhavari Gajbhiye’s dance troupe who presented the Mahamangal Sutta which praises various qualities like piety, forgiveness, self control and non-violence associated with Buddha. Performed in the Indian Buddhist dance form, a genre developed by Gajbhiye based on Tathagat mudras, it was set to music by Bhupesh Sawai. For the benefit of many Americans and Europeans among the audience, Gajhbhiye also read out the meaning of the text on which the presentation was based.
 
 The Buddha Festival was launched in 2011 with the purpose of reviving and nurturing Buddhist and Ambedkar thoughts through performing arts, music and films. It has since been gaining popularity among the followers of Buddhism not just in India but abroad too. Various art and photo exhibitions, talks and workshops for youth are also a part of this festival which will conclude on February 25.
 
 
