NEW DELHI: Indian men’s obsession with their face is driving sales of male facial cleansing products faster than sales of masculine staples like deos, perfumes and hairstyling products.

 The use of face cleansing products among men in India has jumped 60 times in the past seven years, market research firm Nielsen said.
 
 Similarly, sales of men’s face creams have more than doubled during the same period. “Our ‘care’ category for men, which includes products such as face creams, has grown by around 50 per cent annually,” said Sachin Killawala, marketing director of   India.
 
 However, he added that Indian men lag behind their western counterparts, when it comes to grooming. “The need to look good and fit is well-pronounced in developed markets among all age groups,” he said. “Here, we don’t even have a men’s anti-ageing product yet. After they get married, most Indian men lose the urge to look good.”
 
 The surge in sales of male grooming products is being fueled by a desire to gain a competitive edge over other males in career growth rather than to attract females, according to Nielsen. Mumbai-based cosmetologist Rashmi Shetty said she is regularly approached by 40-year-old corporate somethings, who seek solutions for their wrinkles and hair fall. “Five years ago, only 10 per cent of my clientele would be men. Currently, they account for 40 per cent,” she said. “Most come with problems such as acne, pigmentation and hairfall.”
 
 Mainly an urban phenomenon due to high price points of products, the Rs 6,000-crore men’s grooming market is set to grow further. The potential of the category has prompted most consumer goods companies to beef up their male grooming portfolio. While some such as Marico have acquired stakes in male grooming startups, others have asked their R&D departments to develop new products.
 
 “Eyeing a major source of revenue in the men’s range of beauty products, we at   are also hopping on to the bandwagon. We are introducing men’s Ayurvedic skincare range next month,” said  , founder of VLCC.
 
 “From being mere buyers of razors and shaving creams about a decade back, men are currently spending a handsome part of their disposable income on grooming sessions and buying skincare products.”
 
