Paying huge sums of money to bank your child’s cord blood in a private   is of limited use and the government ought to be investing more in public cord  . This was stated by the   ( ), the largest association of the profession, in a consensus statement. The statement also criticised the private cord banking industry for spreading myths and “using propaganda and exploiting people purely for a profitable business”.

 
 “Parents’ sense of obligation towards their own children is exploited in this field. Private cord blood banking has been projected as a panacea for a long list of medical conditions in future,” noted the IAP, pointing out that in reality the use of cord blood for the child would be very limited. It went on to add that promotional advertisements by private cord blood banks were often misleading, projecting private cord blood banking as “a form of biological insurance”. 
 
 “Regulation and quality control of cord blood banks are absent and doesn’t seem to be a priority for the government. There is not enough being done to promote public cord blood banks,” said Dr Anupam Sachdeva, former IAP president and one of the authors of the consensus statement. 
 
 According to the American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation, the chance of a baby benefitting from its own cord blood is 0.04% to 0.0005%. One’s own cord blood cells cannot be used to cure genetic disorders as the cord blood cells would have the same mutation, pointed out the IAP, adding that though one’s own cord blood cells could be useful in treating high risk solid tumours, in such cases, stem cells could be readily harvested from the patient’s peripheral blood or bone marrow and this would give the same results as using stem cells from cord blood.
 
 A public cord blood bank, in contrast, would be able to pool cord blood from various donors with differing genetic make-up and hence be useful in treating several conditions. Also, like a blood bank, the donor would not have to pay.
 
 The consensus statement, followed by review of scientific literature on the subject, was published in the latest issue of the IAP journal, Indian Paediatrics. The IAP expressed concern over the finding of a survey among   in a tertiary care hospital that almost 60% of the doctors were unaware about conditions that could be treated with cord blood cell transplantation. In fact, 90% of the doctors believed that umbilical cord blood from a child could be used to treat thalassemia in the same child, which is incorrect, noted the IAP statement.
 
 The private cord blood banking industry is estimated to be worth Rs 300 crore in India. It costs anything between Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh to get a baby’s cord blood stored for about 20 years. 
 
 
