The Delhi auditions for fbb Colors   2018 co-powered by Sephora and Rajnigandha Pearls took place at the   store at   in Vasant Kunj. The event was a huge success with over 150 contestants from NCR and other neighbouring cities participating in the auditions. Miss World 2017   was definitely the inspiration for most young girls who followed Manushi’s journey from being the fbb Colors Femina Miss India World 2017 to winning the Miss World crown. The state-wise auditions this year were based on the concept – my state and my purpose.
 
  
  Fashion designer Bhawna Rao and   Mr India 2016 first runner-up  
 
 The judges for the Delhi auditions were Peter England Mr India 2016 first runner-up Viren Barman and fashion designer Bhawna Rao. Both judges faced the tough task of selecting three finalists. Viren, who was one of the judges at the Delhi auditions last year as well, said, “All the girls were talented, intelligent and clear about what they want to achieve. Talent in Delhi is stunning and each year, it is becoming tough to be a judge at these auditions.” Bhawna added, “What I liked most about these girls was their confidence. From their walk to their presentation, everything was nearly perfect.” 
 
  
  Audience had a gala time witnessing the auditions
 
 The three selected contestants are Saumya Sharma, Siddhi Gupta and Gayatri Bhardwaj, who is also the fbb Campus Princess finalist 2018. Gayatri is studying at a dental college in Pune and said that she took one year to prepare for the auditions. “I wanted to give it my best shot and I am so happy that I finally got an opportunity to live my dream of becoming Miss India,” she said. Saumya told us that she participated in the Lucknow auditions this year and came to Delhi again to try her luck. “This time, my hard work paid off and I got selected, but I must say that the competition was very tough,” said Saumya. “This is the first time I participated in an audition and I’m happy that I reached this level. This experience has been amazing,” Siddhi added. 
 The top three finalists will be trained and groomed by experts in the industry and will get a chance to meet their mentor Neha Dhupia at the North zonal crowning ceremony to be held in Delhi at The Leela Kempinski Ambience and Convention Centre on April 12. 
 
 
  
  
 
