GURUGRAM: A carpenter has been booked for allegedly raping a 16-year-old girl working as a domestic help in the city for a year. The case came to light following the rescue of the minor from the house she was working in after a human trafficking racket was busted in  .

 The accused has been identified as Arun (25). According to police, the girl, who is from Jharkhand, came to Faridabad after a youth living in a neighbouring village, Surender Malto (25) promised her a job there. “I left my parents and came along with Surender as he promised to help me in getting a job,” the girl said in her complaint.
 
 Surender handed her over to  , who was running a placement agency for domestic help in Faridabad. Mishra used to get girls from tribal and poor areas of the country and force them to work as domestic helps in Delhi-NCR.
 
 After working at different places for a year, the girl was sent to work in   two years ago. “I was working as a domestic help in a house in Gurugram, and the house owner was treating me well. The owner told me she was paying my wages directly to Mishra,” the girl said.
 
 Around a year ago, Arun started coming to the house for fixing furniture and other minor work. “One day, Arun pushed me inside my room when nobody was around and forced himself upon me. He threatened me to not speak about it to anyone. He sexually exploited me for a year, but I kept mum because I was afraid of him,” she said.
 
 In January this year, after their racket was busted, Faridabad police booked Malto and Mishra under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 366A (procuration of minor girl), 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave), 371 (habitual dealing in slaves), 120B (conspiracy), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of  , as well as relevant sections of POCSO Act, SC/ST Act and JJ Act.
 
 After months of chase, Mishra and Malto were finally arrested on April 20 and sent to jail. During interrogation, they revealed that they had sent a girl to work in Gurugram, following which the minor was rescued in the last week of April and sent to an observation home in Faridabad.
 
 On May 11, police recorded her statement in the presence of   member and advocate Sangeeta Rawat, in which she narrated her ordeal. After a medical examination confirmed  , Faridabad police wrote a letter to the Gurugram police commissioner on May 14 seeking an FIR against Arun. A zero FIR was filed against the carpenter Arun under Section 4 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) of the POCSO Act and Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC on Sunday.
 
 “We received a letter from office of the police commissioner a few days ago, and on Sunday a zero FIR was filed,” a senior police officer from New Colony police station said, adding that case would be transferred to Faridabad police as they are investigating it.
 
