HYDERABAD: A fresh controversy has erupted over Rs 525-crore evacuee property land registration in Puppalaguda.   Stamps and Registration department has   Gandipet in charge sub-registrar Anil Kumar over allegations that he registered 35 acres of evacuee property land in names of vendors, claiming to be legal heirs of original claimant, Motilal Chandumal, despite their names not figuring in the Webland database and Record of Rights (ROR) of the revenue department. Suspension of the in charge sub-registrar came after actor and Rajahmundry MP M Muralimohan’s firm, Jayabheri Group, and others filed complaints with the Telangana CMO.

 Telangana stamps and registration department additional inspector general MV Rajesh told TOI: “Senior assistant Anil Kumar, who is in charge sub-registrar of Gandipet, was suspended four days ago as he registered 35 acres of evacuee property in violation of rules. Names of vendors claiming to be legal heirs of Chandumal did not figure in the web database. Without verification, the official registered seven documents pertaining to 20 acres and handed over possession to five vendees, Guru Nanak Engineering College Society, a real estate firm, Ramachandra Rao and two others. We refused to give documents to them pertaining to remaining 15 acres of land. According to Section 6-B to D of ROR (Record of Rights) Act, names of vendors should figure in ROR and they should possess passbook and title deed. Mutation of records should be done if it has to be transferred to others.”
 
 Rajesh said, “Complaints were filed by Jayabheri and four others stating the webland database had their names and questioned how land can be registered to other parties? We are not going into legality of the title. We only looked into the violation of rules. We have verified whether vendors produced pattadar passbooks and title deeds and the sub-registrar verified the database. These two things didn’t happen”
 
 Ranga Reddy DIG of stamps and registration department VV Naidu has been appointed inquiry officer, and his report is awaited. The official government value of land is around Rs 2.5 crore per acre and the market value is expected to be around Rs 15 crore per acre.
 
 “The land abets ORR. Initially, we got a complaint from Y Sujata and later from Jayabheri. The original evacuee Motilal Chandumal gave general power of attorney to one Hansaram who in turn sold it to Saleema Fatima, Ibrahim and Mahmood Ali. They sold it to complainants between 1995 and 1997. In 2002, another power of attorney, a notarised one, was created in the name of one Manikya Rao, who sold the land to Ramchandra Rao and others, ” VV Naidu said.
 
 However, Ramchandra Rao and others, who claim they hold the rightful title, alleged that the alleged GPA in Mumbai, based on which Hansaram sold to Saleema and others is forged and the document with that number is mortgaged. They claimed they rightfully purchased the land from legal heirs of Chandumal and said the department has stopped registration of 15 acres in their names.
 
