 might not be a household name up north, but in Odisha, she is no less than a superstar. The popular   actress has long been a fan favourite, but her performance in her latest film 'Hello Arsi' earned her critical acclaim too, in the form of a   at the 65th National Film Awards. We caught up with the actress during her visit to Delhi to receive the award, where she talked about being surprised by the win, her decision to move to Hindi   shows, and why she turns into a foodie whenever she comes to Delhi.

  
  Prakruti Mishra receives Special Mention Award for the Odia film ' ' from Smriti Irani, Union Minister, I&B, and Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore
 
 Prakruti reveals that she learnt about her National Award win through phone calls from friends and the media. “It was a big surprise for me. Maine kabhi sapne mein bhi nahi socha tha that I would win a National Award. But in the morning, I woke up to phone calls from news channels and my producer congratulating me for the win. I got goosebumps. I’m honoured and blessed. I couldn’t believe it for days and weeks. It did not sink in until I landed in Delhi to receive the award and saw all the other winners,” she recounts. 
 
 And just as Odia cinema is entering mainstream, so is Prakruti – at least what is considered mainstream by Hindi audiences. She has acted in two Hindi TV shows in the last few months and will be soon seen playing the lead for the first time in another, ' '. “It seems like this is the greatest time of my life. The National Award and the show happened at the same time. It’s all a dream come true for me,” says an elated Prakruti. 
 
  
  
 She adds the National Award – coupled with the praise she received from the chairperson of the jury and veteran filmmaker Shekhar Kapur – reassures her that she is on the right path. She tells us, “The moment I heard what he had said about me, the character, and the film, I felt and realized that I am on the right path. Whatever I am doing in my career is right.”
 Her film 'Hello Arsi' won two other awards (Best Odia Feature Film and Best Dialogue), but for Prakruti and the crew, the win is bittersweet because the director   
 
 passed away last year due to a brain stroke when the film was in post-production. “Sambit uncle was very close to my family and this was his dream film. He was a really down-to-earth guy and I really miss him. If he was here, this would have been so much more special. I know that wherever he is, he is blessing us and his hard work really paid off,” says Prakruti.
 
  
  Prakruti Mishra
 
 
 This year, the   have brought regional cinema back into focus and Prakruti says the regional industries need to grab this opportunity. She says, “The problem with regional cinema – and I can speak for Odia cinema – is that even though we make quite a few films, they do not get the kind of exposure Hindi films do. But now that these films are getting recognised at a platform like the National Awards, filmmakers need to use this momentum to make sure that regional cinema stays in the spotlight. I’m really thankful to the National Awards jury that they got these regional films to the mainstream. Good things are in store for regional cinema now.”
 
 Talking about her show, which deals with the issue of financial independence of women and will have Prakruti play an Allahabad girl with that typical UP twang, the Odisha girl says that adopting the local accent and mannerism was quite a challenge. “When we discussed the story, I needed a lot of work on my accent and tone for the character. The way people say ‘hum’ and the typical UP tone is something I learnt only when I shot in Allahabad and interacted with other actors and the crew. But I’m excited because I always wanted to see new places and learn new languages, and now everything is falling in place,” Prakruti tells us.
 
  
  Prakruti Mishra at India Gate
 
 Having done Odia cinema and now Hindi TV, the question she keeps getting asked often these days is when is she turning her sights to Hindi cinema, seen by many as the ‘next logical step’. But Prakruti says she does not see the need to graduate to Hindi films right now. “Television has its own set of audience. These days, TV is not second fiddle to cinema, so an actor does not need to do films to try and reach out to more people, which was the case earlier. Today, there is no way of judging how big an actor is based on the medium he or she is on,” she says, adding, “My focus right now is on 'Bitti Businesswali' and that is what I want to do and enjoy right now.”
 
  
  
 The actress says she keeps frequenting Delhi and has quite a few friends here. “I love Delhi, particularly the food here,” she tells us, adding, “Now that I am here, I will gorge on some good paranthas and biryani here. I become a foodie when I’m here. My favourite spots are the entire Hauz Khas area, some joints in CP, and the Lotus Temple. When it comes to Delhi, I try and explore new places. Each time I am here, my friends know they have to take me to new places.” While food might be on her mind whenever she is in the capital, for Prakruti, the best thing about Delhi is its vibe. She elaborates, “I love Delhi’s vibe and the people here. The wide roads here are a joy to travel on. People often complain about Delhi’s traffic, but mujhe itna problem nahi hota. Log itne hain toh traffic toh hoga hi. Traffic hai toh hai, kahan nahi hota?”
 
 -With inputs from Gunjan.Sharma@timesgroup.com
 
 
