KOCHI: There's growing discontent among the animal welfare activists over a new governmental order extending compensation to kin of people killed by captive elephants. 

 "The owner/custodian is earning a large sum of money from captive elephants and they are not giving any tax or remuneration to the government. Hence it is unfair and illegal on part of government of   to take responsibility of this unnecessary loss. The net effect of this govt order (GO) will be increase of cruelty on captive elephants," said M N  , secretary, Idukki, Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals ( ).
 
  
  
 Jayachandran has written to the state government stating that there is no such provision in Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 for compensation to victims of wildlife attack. "The Kerala Rules for Payment of Compensation to Victims of Attack by Wild Animals,1980 (Non-statutory rules) does not provide compensation for victims by wild animals kept in captivity," he says.
 
 "The food for the mahouts is often met by the people who make use of the elephants, like temple committees," Jayachandran said.
 
 One of the main objections is that most of the people killed by elephants are mahouts, who are often the oppressors of the animals too. "If you look at this year's figures till April 9, 2018, then of the seven killed by elephants, six are mahouts and one is a 73-year-old devotee. According to the captive elephant management rules, the elephant owners has to take insurance for the mahout and his dependents. As for the second and third mahouts, it is the owner's responsibility," said  , general secretary,   (HATF).
 
 In 2017, all four killed by captive elephants were mahouts. In 2016 too all the eight killed were mahouts.
 
 "The irony lies in the ownership of elephants. As of today, we don't have an official owner for any of the captive elephants in Kerala, though there are three different sets of data on elephants. One of them is the elephant data book of the owners' association brought out in 2011, the one on microchip certificates issued by the government of Kerala and the full cover insurance in the name of present owners. But elephants have changed hands and districts," said Venkitachalam.
 
 Jayachandran said that the Kerala Rules for Payment of Compensation to Victims of Attack by Wild Animals is also not applicable to persons either convicted or involved in an offence connected with Wild Life Protection Act, 1972 or Kerala Forest Act. "In this connection, it is to be noted that almost 300 cases are pending related to captive elephants and the order issued is silent in this regard."
 
 There are many more issues relating to the management of captive elephants like providing space (1.2 acre per elephant), taking action for cruelty, taking action for illegal transaction of elephants etc. Action on these aspects need priority.
 
 The rules now prescribing compensation for damage by captive elephants being paid by government is inconsistent with mandate under statutory captive elephant rules demanding insurance to be taken by owners. The persons exhibiting elephants and owning them and those permitting exhibition while the elephant is not fit must be held responsible for damage caused by such animals. They cannot be protected at the cost of tax payers, activists said.
 
 
