Dabolim: The uncertainty on day two of the tourist taxi operators’ strike left many tourists with unpleasant memories to carry back home. Those who planned a short   trip to the state were the most affected and disgusted at having to cancel sightseeing plans on Friday as well as Saturday with no refund offered to them.

 The stay in Goa was a “total waste” for Divya Jain and her husband from Gujarat who had special plans to celebrate their first anniversary. “Our anniversary was completely ruined. We wanted to visit some beaches and even nightclubs on Friday, but we had to miss out on the best ones and access the nearest ones to us instead,” she told STOI.
 
 British tourist Byrce Smith, who has been holidaying in Cavelossim since January 4, had scheduled a visit to North Goa for this weekend. Speaking to STOI he said, “I had paid 250 for a weekend stay in North Goa. My wife and I were supposed to catch up with friends and even go on a shopping trip to the Mapusa market, but none of this seems possible now.” He added that the hotel, too, was not ready to send a vehicle to Cavelossim to pick them up.
 
 A group of 44 company employees from Delhi who stayed at Baga couldn’t enjoy their free weekend trip. “We just stayed back in our hotel on Friday and walked around. Nobody was ready to take us anywhere. The government could have charged little more and made private arrangements,” one of the employees said.
 
 Visiting Goa for the first time with a tour package booked, a family of six from Chennai were upset at having to visit only one beach and miss out on visiting Old Goa. An enterprising bunch, they called up a company operating a scuba diving service expressing their wish to experience Goa’s water sports. Within no time, the employees were sent on bikes to fetch them. 
 
 Expecting the strike to be just a one-day affair, Viraj Patel and his friends from Mumbai cancelled their flight tickets on Friday and postponed their journey back home to Saturday. They were, however, left with no option but to change multiple local buses to get to the airport on Saturday, all the way from Palolem. “We have suffered a loss of Rs 6,000,” Patel said.
 
 
