Trichy: In a major impetus to industrial growth in Trichy, the most-awaited enter upon permission was handed over to Tamil Nadu Small Industries Development Corporation (SIDCO) by the district administration to commence construction work for a trade and convention centre. 

 Now that permission to enter the project site has been availed, SIDCO and trade bodies here have assured that construction work on 9.42 acre land near Panchapur on the city outskirts would commence within three months and may be completed within this year.
 
 During last year’s budget, the state government announced that it is proposing to set up trade facilitation centres in Madurai, Salem, and Trichy cities.
 
 Subsequently, Trichy District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (TIDITSSIA) promoting small scale industries in the district identified government poromboke land available for an extent of 9.42 acres in Panchapur close to the Trichy - Madurai highway, and also sought the district administration to sanction the same.
 
 With senior officials okaying the site proposed in October 2017, SIDCO was waiting for the enter upon permission to commence construction work. “District administration expedited the formalities and provided the permission. Having received the crucial nod, we are sure about commencing construction work for trade centre at Panchapur within three months,” said a senior official with SIDCO. 
 
 District collector K Rajamani confirmed the development with TOI.
 
 It is said the proposed trade centre will be equipped with much-needed facilities and infrastructure on a par with the standards of CODDISIA (Coimbatore District Small Industries Association) trade fair complex.
 
 N Kanagasabapathy, president, TIDITSSIA said, “We are in the process of forming special purpose vehicle (SPV) which would comprise industrialists and members from our association. A long-time dream of industrialists here to establish a trade centre would be fulfilled within this year.” Sources said that building plan, design and layout are ready for the proposed trade centre which would come up at an estimated cost of Rs 11 crore including Rs 5 crore as grant from the state government while the remaining sum would be contributed by SPV.
 
 
