Chandigarh: With the Wednesday’s decision to send four new names for the committee to probe the   complaint against the vice-chancellor (V-C) to the chancellor of the Panjab University (PU) for final approval, the complainant has again raised objection on the constitution of the committee. “Is this an independent committee? From the last three years, the university authorities have not been able to form an independent committee,” said the complainant. 

 The sexual harassment complaint against the PU (V-C) prof Arun Kumar Grover by a faculty member was received on April 15, 2015 and since then, the case awaits a closure. The roadblocks in the matter have delayed the probe and the university governing bodies are still figuring out which committee should probe the matter. 
 
 The case dates back to April 15, 2015 when a complaint from a syndicate member alleging sexual harassment at workplace against the Grover was received. The complaint was marked to a standing committee of PU and, also, referred to PUCASH (Panjab University Committee Against Sexual Harassment).The standing committee submitted a report which was forwarded to the syndicate in its meeting on April 20.
 
 It was in a senate meeting on January 29, 2017 that the House had formed this committee to probe the complaint. However, there was disagreement and five senators, including the complainant, had recorded their dissent on the decision since they wanted that the chancellor should recommend the names of the committee members and he should not be forwarded the names suggested by the syndicate and senate.
 
 Earlier, in response to the names of the committee members sent to the chancellor’s office for approval, the chancellor’s office had written that the PU already had a committee capable of looking into the matter. So the chancellor will not form any new panel over this body formed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (prevention, prohibition and redressal) Act, 2013.
 
 Meanwhile, in its meeting on August 7, the PUCASH had decided to refer the matter back to the registrar for seeking specific authorisation from the ministry as suggested by the chancellor’s office. The letter had further stated that PUCASH felt “constrained” and would go further only after the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) or the chancellor’s office authorises it. Taking cognizance of the letter by the PUCASH chairperson, the university syndicate on August 20 had decided to seek authorisation from the MHRD as to who should probe the matter.
 
 What did V-C say in the meeting? 
 
 V-C Prof Arun Kumar Grover narrated the sequence of the events when the meeting started. 
 
 A complaint from a syndicate member alleging harassment at workplace against the Vice Chancellor, PU was received on April 15, 2015. The complaint was marked to a standing committee of PU and, also, referred to PUCASH
 
 The standing committee submitted a report which was forwarded to the syndicate in its meeting on April 20, 2015 
 
 The complainant expressed lack of faith in PUCASH carrying out any enquiry. The complainant approached the National Commission for Women (NCW) 
 
 A complaint was also submitted by the complainant to UT police on May 28, 2015 alleging sexual harassment by the V-C on March 31, 2015 in a hostel function
 
 The complainant sent the complaint to the Union minister of human resource & development on June 16, 2015, who in turn referred it to the UGC
 
 The V-C was called at the UGC office and asked to respond to a detailed input filed by the complainant before UGC on June 19, 2015 and he filed a detailed reply to the UGC Fact Finding Committee in July, 2015
 
 The registrar received a communication from the chancellor’s office dated January 20, 2016 stating that PU senate under the PU Act, has the statutory authority to constitute any committee
 
 The National Commission for Women, concluded that MHRD should look in to the matter 
 
 The directives of MHRD and letters from the UT police were placed before syndicate meeting of January 21, 2017 and the syndicate constituted a new internal committee to be chaired by Meenaxi Anand Chaudhary.
 
 The recommendations of the senate, along with the entire discussion of the meeting held on January 29, 2017 were sent to the chancellor of PU
 
 Further the office of the Chancellor (with the approval of Chancellor) sent a communication to the Joint Secretary, MHRD on June 14, 2017, stating that the existing PUCASH chaired by Prof. Nishtha Jaswal could be asked to conduct the inquiry 
 
 The input from the chancellor’s office to joint secretary, MHRD was forwarded by registrar to Prof Nishtha Jaswal and she did not proceed with any inquiry
 
 Another communication was sent to NCW on August 17, 2017 seeking opinion whether the then existing PUCASH chaired by Prof Nishtha Jaswal was competent to proceed with the inquiry
 
 Meanwhile, the term of Jaswal’s committee concluded on September 30, 2017 and new PUCASH chaired by Prof Manvinder Kaur came into being from October 1, 2017
 
 The registrar received a communication dated December 13, 2017 from MHRD on December 19, 2017 which states that the given case is peculiar. MHRD had consulted DOPT, who had opined that instead of PUCASH, an independent committee ought to inquire into it. MHRD therefore, directed that the committee recommended by the syndicate on January 21, 2017 should inquire into the matter
 
 
