BENGALURU: Minors driving cars or riding bikes has become a headache for Bengaluru traffic police. Worse, parents seem to be becoming more and more comfortable with their wards at wheels if the number of underage drivers booked is any indication.

 This year, 1,367 cases of underage driving were registered in the first 59 days, which means, on an average at least 23 minors are being caught every day. In 2017, the number of cases booked against minors operating a bike or car had jumped by 150% from 2,102 in 2016 to reach 5,333. 
 
  
  
 
 Police officials and school authorities attribute the increase in cases to not just parental negligence but to minors trying to appear ‘cool’ in front of their peers. A 16-year-old student of a private school in north Bengaluru said a couple of his peers drove despite not having a licence. 
 
 “A few of them drive their parents’ cars but they are usually accompanied by their drivers. In one instance, one of them drove a group of friends to a party while his driver sat in the passenger seat. Another drives with his father’s permission. However, it is not that widespread,” he said. 
 
 According to  , additional commissioner of police (traffic), the special drives they have been holding around schools have led to a large number of cases being booked. “We only present the parents before the court and there it is decided if the punishment should be jail or penalty. The jail option is rarely exercised. For offences such as this, putting them in juvenile detention centres can make them pick up bad habits from hardened criminals,” he added.
 
 Sujatha Narasimharaju, parent and member of a private school’s child protection committee, said the ultimate responsibility lies with the parents.
 
 “Why do parents want them to have a joyride? They can easily cause the death of pedestrians or others who have done nothing to deserve it. A stricter law should be there and parents should not indulge their children,” she said.
 
 Senior IPS officer   said since the aim of the government is not to increase revenue from such cases, there’s a need for more effective measures in place than increasing penalties. “Policing should also be done by schools and parents. Change needs to come from increasing awareness and shaming minors who do this. They need to be told that publicising their unruly behaviour on social media is not cool,” he said.
 
 M Srinivasan, principal of  , called for a helpline or WhatsApp number to be put in place so that bystanders can also report incidents.
 
 
