JALANDHAR: The state   (SIC) has issued notices to several police officials on complaints filed by activist   after they ducked the   queries about the number of the people killed during militancy in the state from 1978 to 1993. Kitna had also sought information about militants killed in police encounters in the same period. Notices have been issued to public information officers (PIOs) of the office of DGP, Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP), Ferozepur   and Jalandhar police commissioner.

 Different pretexts were used to deny the information to the applicant. While office of the DGP, to whom the original RTI application was sent along with SSPs, diverted the query to the intelligence wing, the latter denied the information saying that the wing was out of purview of the RTI Act. SSPs of different districts also denied information on different pretexts.
 
 Most of the SSPs had cited Section 8 of the RTI Act, which exempts disclosure of information that would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the state, relation with foreign state or lead to incitement of an offence; information which has been expressly forbidden to be published by any court of law or tribunal or the disclosure of which may constitute contempt of court; and on a few other grounds.
 
 After Nawanshahr-based RTI activist Kitna filed the complaints with state information commission, it issued a notice to PIO of the office of Punjab DGP seeking reply to the complaint while posting the matter for next hearing on April 30. Similar notices have also been issued to PIOs of offices of Ferozepur and Patiala SSPs.
 
 Kitna had sought the year-wise information about number and list of persons killed by militants; militants killed in encounters with Punjab police and other security agencies; persons killed in fake encounters; those who disappeared during the period and number of unidentified bodies found. He had sent the applications to the state police chief and SSPs of around a dozen and half districts.
 
 While he had mentioned in his application that this information pertained to period from April 1, 1978, to December 31, 1993, he specifically mentioned period of April 1, 1978 to May 31, 1984, while seeking these details.
 
 He also mentioned in his   was being sought to bring out the truth and to use it for building harmony in the society by facing the truth.
 
 
