MUMBAI: Negligent driving by a BEST driver could have cost 17-year-old   either losing her life or losing a year in college. 

 Kajal, a first-year junior student from   of Science and Commerce, fractured her right hand after falling off a   when the driver applied sudden brakes to allow her to get off. She alleged that the conductor and the driver, despite seeing her injured, sped away. Kajal is now looking for a   for her final exams, which start on March 14.
 
 While her family has not yet lodged a police complaint, on Sunday, Kajal’s tuition teacher, Tripurari Jha, tweeted to the Mumbai police and they promptly called back to seek details of the incident. They spoke to Kajal too.
 
 On February 20,   Kajal got into an empty bus no. 703 that was heading towards   depot. “I usually take the bus from the highway. On that day, I spotted it near my college and boarded it. I climbed two steps, when the conductor said the bus was heading to Kandivli depot. I asked him to stop the bus as it had already picked up speed. The driver applied brakes, bringing the bus to a sudden halt. I lost my balance and fell on the road near a construction site. The bus then sped away,” she told TOI. “It was the labourers who took me to a doctor who administered first aid and informed my parents.” 
 
 Kajal’s family later took her to a doctor in Mira Road who detected the fracture on the right hand, which will take a month to recover. “We approached her college and sought a month’s leave, but the principal suggested that she seek a writer and attempt the exam so that she doesn’t lose a year. Most class IX and X students have their own exams during this period, so we are finding it difficult to arrange for a writer,” said Urmila, Kajal’s sister.
 
 A BEST official said, “The BEST can conduct a parallel inquiry once a police complaint or FIR is registered and if the driver is found guilty, he may be suspended.” He added that the BEST will cooperate with police and if they issue summons, the driver will go to the police station for questioning.
 
 
