The bus fare from Mettupalayam new bus stand to Karamadai fixed by the government is Rs11. But K Krishnan, a trader had to shell out Rs40 to reach his home as private bus drivers were on a fleecing spree. He said he had bought a bag of herbs and the conductor sought extra money for it. "But they did not issue me any ticket for it. They just pocketed the money," he said. His ordeal didn’t end there as the driver refused to halt the bus in the designated stop. "I had to walk a long distance to reach home," said a frustrated   who is well above 70-years.

 P Siva, a retired employee who had to wait for his bus for more than two hours, said in all the private buses the cost of the tickets were higher by Rs5 and during peak hours the hike was double. "The new drivers and conductors are very rude. The private bus drivers are using this opportunity and are fleecing us," he said. 75-year-old Lakshmi said, to reach Kovilpalayam, she used to take a direct bus. But now, she needs to take two buses. "The cost of the journey was just Rs11. But now, I pay Rs20 as the private buses seek Rs5 extra on each ticket," she said.
 
 It is not just the private buses. Cab owners and travel agencies have started shuttle services between towns and cities. These private travel companies and taxis, who run vehicles like Tempo Travellers, are also charging higher fares taking advantage of the bus employees strike. Michael A, a tea vendor said the usual rate of the ticket to travel to his hometown located near Devakottai was Rs250-300. "But the private vehicles sought Rs900 per ticket from me," he said. Those travelling to Ooty had a tougher time as ticket rates per person were above Rs500.
 
 The   officials said they were responsible only for the government buses and the regional transport officials should take action against such offenders. When RTOs were contacted regarding this, the officials said they would take action on the violators. "We have not received any official complaint regarding this. But we are conducting checks frequently and will take action," said an official. 
 
 
