Over the festive weekend,   had an announcement to make — something that she is very excited about. Posting on her social-media page, the actress wrote that her new venture pairs her with “the talented and humble actor, Balu Nagendra”.
The as-yet-untitled film, she says, is being directed by newbie  , who floored her with his script. “It may sound cliché, but it is the absolute truth that the script is the hero of this film. And if that wasn’t good enough, the story is heroine-centric, revolving around my character. This was definitely the clincher for me, but what also impressed me was the passion with which Venugopal and his team have been working on this film. It’s always a pleasure to collaborate with a team like this,” she says.
 The team, adds Sangeetha, has only been shooting over weekends, owing to professional commitments of other members onboard. “I play a girl from a lower middle-class family, who works at a garment factory, while Balu is an auto driver. At its core, the film is a love story, but there is also an element of mystery attached to it, so, it can be termed a thriller as well,” says the actress. But will she be able to pull off such a character and not come across as too glam? “Honestly, I believe that I am more relatable in roles that pit me as the girl-next-door. Yes, I have done glamorous characters as well, but I am more in my skin when I play regular roles,” says Sangeetha.
 Between packing yellu-bella for her near-and-dear ones, the actress also tells us that the year ahead looks great for her professionally. “Two of my films are nearly ready, namely   and Alidu Ulidavaru, and I have a project with director KM   lined up, which pairs me with Chiranjeevi Sarja. The lineup is exciting and I am on the lookout for more substantial roles that give me creative satisfaction. I know that I will have to do commercial films as well to earn my bread and butter, but I do hope to find that one role that I would die for,” she says. In that context, Sangeetha adds that she is even OK with doing both TV and   simultaneously, depending on how meaty the roles are. “Unlike leading men who do both TV and films, filmmakers and audiences don’t appreciate actresses doing that, as TV gives you a certain image, which will be vastly different from what you do for the big screen. Then you get trolled. I would like to bridge that gap though,” she signs off. 
 
