Nagpur: Barely three days before Nagpur University’s 105th convocation, the medal and merit lists are not in order. Hundreds of medals and prizes would be awarded at the hands of the Tamil Nadu governor and former city MP Banwarilal Purohit, who would be the chief guest.

 Late on Wednesday evening, TOI found three new files related to merit order and medals were uploaded on the NU website. Two were ‘revised corrigenda’ while the other was yet another final merit list of summer 2017 examination. This has left students, colleges and teachers confused. TOI has been consistently highlighting the issues surrounding the merit order.
 
 Despite revisions since March 3 when the provisional medal list was published, discrepancies can be easily spotted in the corrigenda, which were issued to correct roll numbers and award winners.
 
 The shoddy work in preparing the sensitive documents hints that there may be several errors since both the lists are being frequently revised.
 
 When TOI randomly cross-checked corrections made against the name of three students, it found there is big confusion about the roll numbers of gold medal winners.
 
 Roll numbers of three students from MA (Ambedkar Thoughts) and MA (Public Administration) and BSc (Chemistry) in medal list are different from those published in the final merit list.
 
 The roll number of topper in MA (Ambedkar Thoughts) stated in the medal list corrigendum dated March 15 doesn’t match with the number given against the same name in the merit list.
 
 In MA (Public Administration) topper’s case, the candidate has been selected for gold medals under two different categories but word-for-word details are stated in the corrigendum, raising questions whether the correction was done at all or not.
 
 Similarly, the BSc (Chemistry) winner’s details have remained unchanged in the corrigendum.
 
 On March 20 and 21, TOI had reported how an MA (English) student has objected to the merit list and asked for a clarification from the NU’s exam section while in MA (Arabic), age criteria was used after a tie in CGPA to declare gold medal winner. Teachers felt the next consideration should have been marks in case of a tie.
 
 
