Lush green gardens, well-manicured lawns, marble flooring and shelters greet visitors at the memorials of former   C N Annadurai, M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa at Marina’s promenade. The 19-acre plot also houses museums of Annadurai and MGR, portraying their life’s journey and contribution to society through photographs and archived newspaper clippings. Recently, state finance minister O Pannerselvam in his budget speech announced plans to construct a ‘grand memorial’ of Jayalalithaa at   at an outlay `50.8 crore. An additional `20 crore has also been earmarked for converting her residence ‘Veda Nilayam’ into a memorial.

 In sharp contrast, the memorials of prominent   leaders at   in Guindy appear to be in a state of neglect. Bushes and a dried lawn lend a grim picture to the venue which houses the memorials of late chief ministers — C Rajagopalachari, K Kamaraj and M Bakthavatsalam. The lone side entrance is stagnated with water. When TOI visited the Perunthalaivar Kamarajar Memorial on Saturday, twigs lay scattered on the surface of the black floor. Kamaraj’s nine-year rule (1954-1963) is known as the ‘golden period’ in post-Independence TN. Amid the thick vegetation, a narrow path links the three memorials at Gandhi Mandapam, which also houses small memorials of dalit leader Rettamalai Srinivasan, and freedom fighters.
 
 A Hercules, a resident of Tondiarpet, said the entire premises were a den of snakes. "People must be cautious while taking a stroll there as snakes are common in the thick vegetation," he said. K Maharaja, an IT professional visiting the place said the stinky toilets at the memorial are a big turn-off for tourists. 
 
 Interestingly, all the six memorials at Gandhi Mandapam were constructed during the regimes of the two   parties. While the memorial of Kamaraj was built in 1976, Bakthavatsalam’s was thrown open to the public in 1998.
 
 "It is unfortunate that the premises that house memorials of three late chief ministers look like a burned down forest. We are not against the provision of facilities to other memorials, but we feel memorials of the three tallest leaders of the state deserve equal treatment," said Karate R Thiagarajan, district president, South Chennai Congress. 
 
 He feels the state government should handover the responsibility of the three memorials to the Tamil Nadu Charitable Trust founded by Kamaraj. "The state government had assigned maintenance of Gandhi Mandapam to a private telecom operator a decade ago and I don’t see any reason why it can’t hand it over to a charitable trust now. We will create lawns, provide better lighting, and landscape the area," he said adding that he would invite Congress president Rahul Gandhi to witness the state of affairs of the memorials in person. 
 
 Official sources at Gandhi Mandapam, however, said that the Public Works Department (PWD) was responsible for the maintenance of the lawn. "We were told that there were some issues in payment for the agency responsible for the gardening work," the official said. PWD officials were not available for comment. Despite repeated calls, minister for information and publicity Kadambur Raju could not be reached for his comments.
 
 Political analyst M Kasinathan attributes the disparity in maintenance to the long rule of the Dravidian parties in the state after the Congress was ousted in 1967. "The bias is mostly because only Dravidian parties have ruled Tamil Nadu since 1967. They have built memorials for the late Congress chief ministers out of respect. But, their priority will always be towards cherishing the memories of their own leaders to keep their vote bank intact," he said. 
 
 
