BARNALA: The first death anniversary of former chief minister Surjit Singh Barnala was observed on Sunday where thousands of persons, including ex-CM Parkash Singh Badal and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Badal, paid tributes. Barnala had passed away on January 14, 2017, just days before the state went to assembly polls.

 The family members of Barnala were in the   when he breathed his last but soon after they returned to Akali Dal. Badal while paying tributes assured to give full regard to the family in the party fold. The entire family, including his former   wife Surjit Kaur and former MLA son Gaganjit Singh, announced to work as per the wishes of Barnala.
 
 Barnala had served as Punjab CM from 1985 to 1987. He also remained Union minister and governor of Uttrakhand, Tami Nadu and  .
 
 Both the Badals use the occasion to say that the party cares for its old warriors. They also took pot shots at the Congress government and accused it of forgetting the promises made with the people of the state.
 
 Parkash Singh Badal said that the hollow promises of the Congress of complete farm debt waiver and jobs in every family turned the tables as even the Akalis, especially farmers, believed them. He said the Congress was like that old unnamed maharaja who centuries ago had announced to excavate the graves to pull out   coins from the mouths of the dead. “The Congress government of today was doing precisely same and withdrawing all the sops provided by the previous Akali government,” he said.
 
 Further attacking the Congress, Badal said that then PM   had ditched Barnala and then SAD president Sant Harchand Singh Longowal by not implementing the clauses of transferring Chandigarh and other Punjabi-speaking areas to Punjab which was main clause of Punjab accord reached between them.
 
 Sukhbir asked people to collect old and rare photographs of party activists in various morchas and agitations of Akali Dal. “The pictures of old workers will be put up at a museum being prepared in party office. We want every old worker or his family members to become a proud part of the history of Akali Dal which is full of sacrifices,” he added.
 
 MP   also praised Barnala and former finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa too remembered ties of his family with Barnala.
 
 SGPC to build memorial
 
 The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) announced to build a befitting memorial to Barnala in the area so that coming generations “could know more about the statesman like politician”. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal, who was trust aide of Sant Harchand Singh Longowal, said, “I owe a lot to Barnala, who was like a mentor to me. The SGPC has decided to build a memorial devoted to Barnala. Soon, the SGPC will look into the details in consultation with Barnala family to build the memorial.”
 
 
