JAIPUR: Suspended IAS officer Nirmala Meena got a major setback on Thursday when a division bench of   reject her anticipatory bail application.

 Her anticipatory bail was already rejected by Rajasthan High Court. Meena is an accused in gross irregularities in the distribution of wheat meant for below poverty line (BPL) families which according to Anti-Corruption Bureau is a scam of nearly Rs 8 crore.
 
 After arresting one person in this case Swaroop Singh, a private floor mill owner in Jodhpur, the ACB team has been sending notices to the officer Meena to appear and cooperate in the investigation.
 
 “We sent at least 16 notices to her. Initially she appeared quite a few times. However, anticipating her arrest and as an attempt to evade it she has not been responding to our investigation for quite some time. This was the ground additional advocate general(AAG), government of Rajasthan Shiv Mangal Sharma argued while opposing the anticipatory bail application before the division bench of Supreme Court,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, Superintendent of police, Jodhpur, ACB and also the supervisory officer in the case told TOI over phone from Jodhpur.
 
 A division bench of Supreme Court thus rejected the anticipatory bail application of the suspended officer Meena.
 
 On the scam, Lamba, said, “During March, 2016 private floor mill owners in connivance with the government officers including the then district supplies officer (DSO) , Nirmala Meena got wheat from FCI go downs and sold it to the private floor mill owners during March, 2016. Nearly 33,000 quintals of wheat which procured was meant to be distributed to the BPL families through PDS shops. However, the racket comprising government officers and private floor mill owners claimed since 35,000 members are added in the BPL list they needed this much of wheat.”
 
 Lamba added that the accused including Suresh Upadhayay, a private contractor who was supposed to bring the wheat from FCI and later to distribute it to fair price shops for PDS, Ashok Paliwal, the then lower division clerk at DSO office, Jodhpur and Nirmala Meena, the then DSO. “One accused Swaroop Singh, a flour mill owner was arrested in January by us,” Lamba added.
 
 In April this year, Rajasthan high court too had rejected the anticipatory bail application of the suspended IAS officer. ACB officers in Jodhpur said that with the rejection of anticipatory bail the arrest of the IAS officer becomes inevitable.
 
 
