BATHINDA: The Punjab Police have handed over the investigations into the killing of two Sikhs in police firing on October 14, 2015, at Behbal Kalan village in Faridkot to Ferozepur senior superintendent of police (SSP). The duo were part of the protest held against sacrilege of  .

 Ferozepur police would reinvestigate the incident after forming a special investigation team (SIT). Bathinda zone inspector general (IG) M S Chhina confirmed the shifting of investigations to Ferozepur from Faridkot.
 
 Sources said the Faridkot police had failed to solve the case even after 28 months of the incident. The Ferozepur police have now sought the relevant record from registration of the FIR to investigation report from their Faridkot counterpart.
 
 Sources also said bullets fired from police weapons had been kept for many days at the Bajkakhana police station before these were provided to the central forensic science laboratory (CFSL) at Chandigarh.
 
 Torn pages of Guru Granth Sahib were found scattered outside the gurdwara at Bargari village on October 12, 2015. Nearly 200 persons were holding protest at Behbal Kalan when police had fired on them on October 14, in which Sarawan resident   and Niamia Wala resident Krishan Bhagwan Singh had died and others had sustained injuries.
 
 Punjab CM Amarinder Singh had formed a commission led by Punjab and Haryana high court former judge Justice   (retired) to look into the incidents of sacrilege in the state and the Behbal Kalan incident. The commission has sought time from the CM to hand over its probe report.
 
 The investigations into the case till now were being conducted by Faridkot police through an SIT under superintendent of police (investigations).
 
 IG Chhina told TOI, “The bureau of investigations has handed over the probe into Behbal firing to Ferozepur police, which will investigate the matter by forming an SIT.” He declined to give reasons behind shifting of the investigations to police of another district.
 
 When contacted, Faridkot SSP   said, “An SP-level officer of Faridkot was investigating the case. Now, it has been shifted to Ferozepur police. We have no idea of handing over the probe to another district. It is the prerogative of the DGP.”
 
 Ferozepur SSP   said, “I have not received the formal orders yet to investigate the matter. Anything could be said about the matter after getting the orders.”
 
