While addressing the press conference for the 65th  , jury head   said that after continuously watching films for 10 days, his opinion about the quality of Indian   has changed. Shekhar said that even though regional cinema doesn’t have “a Shah Rukh Khan”, Hindi cinema doesn’t come close to it.
He said, “Maine Hindustan mein last film banayi thi ' ', usske baad maine yahan koi film isiliye nahi banayi because I wanted to make better films. For years, I have been watching Hindi films and I’ve been saying, ‘it’s not good enough’. Main kyun wapas aaya? Kyunki aage badhna chahiye, naye challenges lene chahiye. After 10 days of watching films from 9am to 3am, it has changed everything. I was wondering about the quality of films — not of Hindi cinema, but regional cinema, the cinema that has never come up before. I didn’t even know Lakshadweep mein filmein banti hain. Main nahi janta tha ki Assam mein aisi films banti hain. Mujhe nahi maloom tha ki Bengali films itni aage badh chuki hain.”
 
  
  
 About the selection process for this year’s winners, Shekhar said, “There was no award which was not debated. Bahut aasaan hai award dena — chalo kisi ko bhi de do. Mujhe 12 saal lage thay Masoom banane mein, idhar se bheekh maang kar, udhar se bheekh maang kar. Regional cinema ke paas   toh hai nahi! Ghar se chori karte hain, ghar se bhaag kar film institute chale jate hain aur phir jod-jod kar film banate hain. We took no film lightly.”
 
  
  Late   won Best Actress for the film Mom
 
 He also explained the choice for this year’s Best Actress award, which was posthumously given to Sridevi, saying, “Don’t think we are giving the award to Sridevi because I am part of the jury”. Shekhar added, “Main hi tha jo ladta tha ki Sridevi ko mat do. Because we are all emotionally involved with Sridevi. But I used to say, don’t give her the award because she passed away, because otherwise it is unfair to the others. Unki kya galti hai, they have also worked hard for 9-10 years to reach here. But each time, it came back to Sridevi.”
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  Late actor Vinod Khanna honoured with the Dadasaheb Phalke award
 
  
  Ridhhi Sen won the Best Actor National Award for Nagarkirtan
 
  
  Fahadh Faazil, Best Supporting Actor for Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum
 
  
  Parvathy got a special mention for her Malayalam film Take Off
 
  
  
  
  Baahubali –The Conclusion won Best Popular Film Providing Wholesome Entertainment, Best Action Choreography (Peter Heins) and Best Visual Effects (RC Kamal Kannan)
 
  
  Ganesh Acharya won Best Choreography for the song Gori Tu Latth Maar from Toilet: Ek Prem Katha
 
  
  
 
 – With inputs from Abhimanyu.Mathur@timesgroup.com, Divya.Kaushik@timesgroup.com, Rachana.Dubey@timesgroup.com and Renuka.Vyavahare@timesgroup.com
 
