Surat: An estimated 30 per cent tribal population of Dang ventures out to earn an extra income for around six months in a year in the districts of Surat and Valsad. This has an adverse effect on the migrating people because they cannot enjoy the benefits of government’s welfare and hygiene schemes besides their long absence also ruins the educational prospects of their future generations. The forest of Dang district has enough to sustain them, but yearning to earn a little bit extra is costing the tribals dear in terms of human development index. Dang district has total population of 2.10 lakh and 65,000 of them go to work in sugarcane farms of nearby districts. This is why the district authorities have been setting up seasonal hostels for migrating families’ kids studying in class V to VIII since the past few years. The children are provided accommodation, food and other facilities when their parents are out for several months.  Dang district development officer (DDO) H K Vadhvania told TOI, “We have 174 seasonal hostels where nearly 6,900 tribal children stay and are provided education. We ensure that their education doesn’t suffer due to migration of their parents. We persuade the parents to leave their children with their grandparents so that their basic education doesn’t suffer.” State government spends Rs 1,600 per child every month under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. However, social scientists say setting up of seasonal hostels for children cannot be a solution to migration by tribals for jobs. Tribals have been migrating to work in sugar factories and sugarcane fields since 1962. The trend continues to this date because tribal villages neither do have basic facilities nor employment opportunities.  Centre for Social Studies director Dr Satyakam Joshi said, “The sugar factories and the state government should set up a migrant welfare board for tribal labourers. The board should spend money on the education of children, basic sanitary facility for women, health check-up and houses for tribal workers.” 