GHAZIABAD: The Ghaziabad administration has said it has signed 92 MoUs with private firms in the city and inked projects worth Rs 3,700 crore ahead of the UP investors’ meet on February 21-22.

 “Over 20 real estate firms have pledged   in Ghaziabad and the proposals have been sent for the investors’ meet,” said  , the Ghaziabad Development Authority’s chief architect and town planner. 
 
 “These projects are in various stages of completion and together, their value of exceeds Rs 2,000 crore,” he added.
 
 Officials said the proposals were mostly from real estate and electrical firms and located in the Raj Nagar Extension, Indirapuram, NH24, Koyal Enclave and Indraprastha housing scheme areas.
 
 In the real estate sector, the proposals were mostly in the form of group housing and affordable housing projects, the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna, malls and schools. Apart from the  , proposals from the UPSIDC have also been for the investors’ meet.
 
 The regional manager of UPSIDC, Smita Singh, said: “Apart from the proposals sent by us, UPSIDC has plans to set up industries on 544 plots identified for the purpose. Auto parts, rubber manufacturing units and electronic manufacturing factories are likely to be set up there.”
 
 Singh added: “We expect that over the next year, the companies will invest in Ghaziabad to the tune of Rs 654 crore and we have already signed 43 MoUs worth Rs 142 crore.”
 
 In a bid to woo investment in the city, the administration is likely to slash the charge for converting an agricultural plot to industrial.
 
 “At present, the land use conversion charge for plots is 40% more than the circle rate, which is a major impediment in wooing industries to the city,” said Ishtiaq Ahmed. 
 
 “The state government will shortly revisit the Land Use Conversion Policy, 2014, and is expected to slash the rate considerably,” he added.
 
 The Noida Authority has said it has completed its target of pulling in entrepreneurs who will invest around Rs 10,000 crore in the city and inked provisional MoUs with 132 companies worth Rs 9,977 crore.
 
 
