PATNA: Hundreds of students from city schools participated in the pre-celebration of World Earth Day organized by Tarumitra, an NGO, on its premises at Digha on Saturday. They marched to the Panchavati forest area of   and performed ‘aarti’ and applied ‘chandan and tika’ to the trees. They also took the ‘green pledge’ to take care of environment. Patna mayor Sita Sahu inaugurated the sprinkler system at Tarumitra’s organic farm for water conservation with the help of solar energy. The event was also graced by Femina Miss India finalist and winner of India’s top next model 2016 edition Pranati Prakash.

 Students planted saplings and prepared bird-feeders. They sang earth songs and performed dance and skits, displayed posters on ‘Plastic free Bihar’ and ‘Save Mother Earth’. Speaking on the occasion, Sahu said students and the elders have to take collective responsibility of taking care of resources and planet.
 
 The students of Radiant International School, Mt Carmel High School, Notre Dame Academy, Delhi Public School, Don Bosco Academy, St Dominic Savio’s High School, St Xavier’s High School, Leed’s Asian School, May Flower, Organic Kids, Baldwin Academy, Veena   and S R Vidyapeeth, besides Jawaharlal Nehru University (Delhi), St Xavier’s College Patna and AN College participated in the event.
 
 Tarumitra founder Fr Robert Athickal, organic farmer Margaret Molomoo, Shashi Darshan, D N Prasad and Fakhri were also present on the occasion.
 
 Painting competition held: Painting and slogan writing competition on this year’s World Earth Day theme of ‘End Plastic Pollution’ was organized at Srikrishna Science Centre near Gandhi Maidan on Saturday. In the painting competition for juniors, Dipiangsu and Adya Singh of Army Public School (APS) got first and third prize respectively while Anand of May Flower School (MFS) stood second. In senior group, Rinki and Ayushi of   bagged the first and third prize respectively while Aman Raj of MFS won the second prize. Aditya, Anjali and Shyreya Kumari of MFS got first, second and third prize respectively in slogan writing in junior category whereas Vidushi, Amish and Saurav finished first, second and third respectively in the senior category.
 
 Seminar on autism held: St Karen’s Primary School, in association with Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP), organized an interactive seminar on ‘Autism and Learning Disorders in Children’. Director of Child Developmental Centre (Mumbai) Dr Samir Dalwai conducted the programme. IAP Patna branch president Dr Birendra Kumar Singh, secretary Dr Akhilesh Kumar and its member Dr Nigam Prakash Narain also participated in the event, which was attended by prominent schools such as St Michael’s High School, Don Bosco Primary School, St Dominic Savio’s High School, Mt Carmel High School and Notre Dame Academy.
 
 
