SHIMLA: With the Shimla municipal corporation reportedly failed to ensure adequate and daily water supply,   chief minister   on Thursday presided over a meeting of senior officials of the state government to review status of water supply to Shimla town.

 Jai Ram Thakur during his meeting with the officials said pragmatic and collective steps should be taken to ensure adequate supply of drinking water to people of Shimla town. He directed the officers of the irrigation and public health department, district administration and the municipal corporation of Shimla to take all measures to ensure that there was no inconvenience to residents and tourists of Shimla town due to shortage of water during summer season. 
 
 He said that water tankers would be pressed into service to supply water in water scarcity areas from Chabba and from borewell at Sunni.
 
 The CM has also directed the officers to check water losses due to leakage in the pipes and plug all water connections used for construction purposes. He also asked the officers to explore the possibilities for installation of new bore well at Gumma.
 
 Acute shortage of water in the tourist town has left the residents fuming due to inadequate supply being made after a gap of 4-5 days, which had failed to fulfill their basic needs. Besides residents, hoteliers are also upset claiming that water shortage had resulted into financial losses to them. 
 
 Tourism Industry Stake Holders Association president Mohinder Seth said the   had miserably failed to provide proper an regular water supply. He added that hoteliers of Shimla were left with no other option, but to pay absorbent charges for procuring water through tankers.
 
 “The high cost of water directly hits viability of the hotel industry. Hoteliers are compelled to keep the rooms vacant because all hotels in Shimla are not accessible to take water through tankers,” he said, adding that the state government talked about tourism, but failed to provide adequate water supply to Shimla town due to which the tourism industry was being badly affected. 
 
 “The government should immediately start work of water lifting from Kol Dam on war footing,” he added.
 
 
