Amritsar: A Canada-based NGO, Professor Mohan Singh Memorial Foundation, has begun a move to persaude the UK government to tender an “official apology” for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. 

 To begin with, foundation president Sahib Thind handed a memorandum to Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn on Saturday. The Labour Party is the principal opposition in the UK.
 
 Talking to TOI over the phone from the UK, Thind said they were hoping that the government of United Kingdom would agree to join other western nations by addressing historic injustices. He said the UK could begin with by issuing an official apology in Parliament for the massacre in which nearly 1,000 people were killed on April 13, 1919. “Corbyn has also supported the cause,” he said.
 
 The foundation has been instrumental in pressuring the Canadian government to apologise for the Komagata Maru incident. It had pressured the federal government of the North American country for over 20 years, following which Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau apologised in the House of Commons on May 18, 2016.
 
 He said the foundation had been working for 25 years with governments worldwide, including in North America, Asia and Europe, to seek parliamentary apologies for historical wrongs committed by colonial powers and their proxies.
 
 On December 6 last year, the visiting mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, asked the British government to tender a “full and formal” apology for the Jallianwala Bagh massacre during his visit to the national memorial. “We are working with our associate organisation in the UK to ensure the government there is able to begin the process for an apology for atrocities committed by the colonial regime in India, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka,” he said, adding that their foremost concern and significance was an apology for the massacre in Amritsar. 
 
 More than 1,000 peacefully protesting civilians were killed after the British-Indian Army opened fire on around 2,500 men, women and children.
 
 Jallianwala Bagh Shaheed Parivar Samiti had also demanded the UK government to tender an unconditional apology for the massacre. “We have approached Thind for the purpose and will continue our drive till it reaches a logical end,” said JBSPS president Mahesh Behal.
 
 
