MADURAI: Expressing concern over disposal of cases through mediation and conciliation process, the   Mediation and Conciliation Centre has urged judicial officers of the Madras high court and sub-ordinate courts to refer cases they think have a possibility of amicable settlement between the parties, to the  , which will help in speedy disposal. 

 To spread awareness about the mediation process, the Tamil Nadu Mediation and Conciliation Centre (TNMCC) on Monday conducted an awareness programmes ahead of its 13th anniversary in the Madras high court Madurai bench and the Madurai district court. 
 
 Delivering the inaugural address at the Madurai bench, administrative judge C T   said though the TNMCC has achieved many things, it has miles to go and urged litigants to make use of the service of TNMCC. 
 
 Speaking at the function held at the Madurai district court, Madras high court judge and member of the supervising committee of the TNMCC, D   said, “Tamil Nadu is the first state where the mediation and conciliation centre started functioning on April 9, 2005. However, Delhi and other states show more number of disposals. But, Tamil Nadu stands behind them. The committee analysed reasons for lower turnout and found that the cases that were referred to by the high court and subordinate courts the mediation centres were low.”
 
 Seeking co-operation from the district administration, the judge said even motor vehicle accident claim cases are settled through lok adalats. But due to non-availability of legal heir certificates, there is a delay for the litigants to get benefits. The district administration needs to extend its co-operation in such issues, the judge said.
 
 Another member - judge   said, “Judicial officers who deal with cases involved matrimonial and money in courts and want to postpone those cases, may refer cases to the mediation centres. The district administration and police wing may very well utilise the service of the TNMCC’s trained mediators in settling ‘in house’ disputes.” 
 
 Justice M S   suggested to evolve a mechanism to find solution in cases, before they are brought to the court proceedings and also urged the advocates to explore the possibilities to settle the cases amicable before taking them to the court. 
 
 District mediation centre chairman Deepthi Arivunithi, Madurai collector K  , city police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Agarwal, mediators, litigants and a group of students from Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College participated in the function.
 
 Pamphlets relating to awareness about mediation process were given to the public at both the places. Free buttermilk was provided in the high court bench.
 
 
