Healthy pizzas and   or low-carb high fibre pastas may sound like oxymorons but that’s what a few city-based food entrepreneurs are turning into reality. From millet pastas and almond-flour   bases to flaxseed wraps and chia seed crackers, fast food is getting a healthy twist.

 For some, traditional rice varieties and   are a key ingredient. At Ammirdham Traditional Foods, N Ramesh Kumar and his wife R Rajalakshmi offer ready-to-cook pastas made from semolina (replacing maida) and different types of millets like foxtail, pearl and finger varieties. Some of their pastas are made from traditional rice varieties like maapillai samba and black wild rice.
 
 It was the need to eat healthy at home that got the couple to experiment with these highly nutritional grains. These grains were consumed by our ancestors for specific health benefits, says Kumar. "The maapillai samba rice, used to be given to brides and bridegrooms before marriage. It is good for the heart, strengthens the nerves and has low glycemic index (GI), making it ideal for diabetics. The black wild rice is rich in anti-oxidants and iron," says Kumar, adding that with no preservatives, additives or colourants they are all high in fibre unlike maida, which can cause constipation. 
 
 The   are particularly effective for diabetics and health-conscious individuals. So when Deepa Ramaprasad chanced upon a WhatsApp message about healthy, gluten-free pizzas, she was instantly tempted to try it out. The homemade pizza with almond flour base allowed her the indulgence she had been staving off.
 
 "We found that there was a demand for such healthier alternatives and after a year of research and development, we launched it in the market," says city-based Ramitha PR, who co-founded at5pizza with her husband, Aditya P in February. 
 
 Almond flour is gluten-free, low in carbohydrates and high in protein, fibre and fat. It is more suitable for diabetics as it has a low GI compared to maida whose high GI is known to spike blood glucose levels. "Pizzas from almond flour are filling, less chewy and doughy than maida equivalents," says Ramaprasad, who ordered from at5pizza. 
 
 The growing awareness about healthy eating has led to many people making conscious choices. "I began experimenting with products from almond flour after I received requests from my customers. The demand grew when nutritionists began referring clients to us," says Piece of Cake founder Shalini Padmanabhan, adding that she customised the recipe to suit the local palette.
 
 Padmanabhan offers a variety of items on request including almond flour buns, burgers and muffins, flaxseed wraps and chia seed crackers. The recipes have substitutes such as a paneer patty in a burger instead of potato. The lasagna has   and cream with the pasta sheets (usually made of refined flour) replaced by layers of zucchini or aubergine.
 
 While it is encouraging to find a healthy avatar of sinful foods, nutritionists recommend these items be had in moderation. For instance, the number of almonds used in the flour may exceed the amount advised for daily consumption. "Anything in excess is not good. One must be conscious about how frequently and how much they consume, keeping in mind the calorie count," says consultant dietician Dr Dharini Krishnan, adding that ingredients such as cheese can disturb the balance. 
 
 (The author is a freelancer)
 
 
