INDORE/BHOPAL: A protest on Thursday by   members, who had not watched Padmaavat during the special screening in Indore the previous evening, had a ripple effect across the state, leading to cancellation of planned shows.

 Dozens of people, some of whom had booked tickets online, returned dejected from theatres as cinema owners developed cold feet despite a high court order and security assurance from the administration. With 
  releasing on Friday, hope is fading for 
  in MP.
 
 Till Wednesday, it seemed set for a Thursday release. In the evening, a special screening was held for Karni Sena at Indore, but it only ended up giving second thoughts to exhibitors as those who watched the film were split, and refused to assure a smooth passage.
 
 Karni Sena divided over film’s release
 
 By then, many theatres in Indore and at least one in Bhopal had put up tickets online. On Thursday morning, Karni Sena gathered at Vijay Nagar Square in Indore and had a heated exchange with police. “We have decided not to let the film be screened and will protest every time theatre owners announce to release it,” Rishiraj Singh Sisodia of   told police officers.
 
 “If you have made your decision then why are you talking to us? We will not let any protester disturb peace and order. If you want a dialogue with police, then have a meaningful discussion,” ASP East zone-II Manoj Kumar Rai shot back.
 
 About 200km away in Bhopal, owner of Raj and Muskan cinemas in Bhopal, Azizuddin, was seen sipping tea with local TV crew around noon. “We will screen the film in the evening. Rambha (next-door) might have released it. Check it out,” he told two pairs of youngsters. His hope died quickly, and posters of Padman went up on the walls of his cinema halls.
 
 Rambha put up a notice saying all shows were suspended for the day “due to technical snag”. Owner Deepak Simhal said those who had booked Padmaavat tickets online would be refunded.
 
 This was a sharp plunge from the high of Monday when Indore-based Central Cine Circuit Association had announced a Thursday release. “On Wednesday evening, we organised a special show for Karni Sena leaders. It was also seen by administration and police officials. But Karni Sena leaders were not one in their opinion on the film. Since there was doubt on how they would respond, film producer in Mumbai deferred its release,” said president of Central Cine Circuit Association, JP Chouksey. The release of Akshay Kumar-starrer Padman was an added factor as many cinemas have booked shows.
 
 The only silver lining is that opinion is divided in Karni Sena. While some say they are ready to get beaten up by police or go to jail to stop Padmaavat, the other faction refused to join Thursday’s protest, saying the movie is not being screened, anyway. They are open to a dialogue with police and film distributers to put forth their objections.
 
