GURUGRAM: Three cops were injured when a mob attacked a 15-member team from the Sohna crime branch at   near Tauru in Nuhu district on Tuesday during an early morning search to nab a man who is suspected to be involved in a series of ATM thefts reported in Gurgaon in the recent past.

 Police said around 100 villagers, including women and children, intercepted their vehicles and pelted stones at the cops when they were returning from the village, around 40km from Gurgaon, after arresting the man,   alias Bachhi. While the accused managed to flee, three cops — constable Sunil, head constable Ram Prakash and head constable Haseen — were injured in the attack.
 
 An   has been filed against 100-odd villagers at Tauru police station even as the police have launched a manhunt to nab Rafiq and recommended a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head.
 
 Acting on a tip-off, the police team, led by inspector Om Prakash, went to Rahri village on Tuesday morning to nab Rafiq, who is suspected to be the kingpin of a gang involved in several ATM thefts in Gurgaon since December last year. Rafiq spotted the police vehicles even before they entered the area and ran towards the village. The cops followed him. He then climbed the roof of a house but fell and got injured, and was eventually arrested.
 
 However, as the cops put him in a jeep and headed back to Gurgaon, a group of women and children lay down in front of their vehicles, forcing them to stop. Soon a large mob, with stones and bricks in their hands, surrounded them. The cops fired in the air to disperse the mob but in vain. “We were only 15 and there were over 100 villagers. They threw stones at us and pulled out the suspect from the jeep. We had to run for our lives,” said an injured  .
 
 Later in the night, around 100 cops, led by ACP (crime) Shamsher Singh, conducted a raid in the village and recovered three stolen motorcycles, but could not trace Rafiq. “We had to return from the village due to the attack but we are on the job. An FIR has been filed at Tauru police station and the thief will be arrested soon,” said inspector Om Prakash.
 
 DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar said, “Our teams are on the job and conducting raids in different places. The cops, who were injured in the attack, are out of danger now. The thief as well as those villagers who helped him escape will be behind bars soon,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime). 
 
 Meanwhile, the Bilaspur crime branch has sent a recommendation to announce a reward of Rs 50,000 on the head of Rafiq.
 
 Sources said at least 16 cases of ATM thefts were reported in Gurgaon since December last year, and Rafiq and his gang were suspected to be involved in most of them.
 
 
