CHENNAI: The   will be able to accommodate more flights during peak hours as   (AAI) has decided to make simultaneous use of the main runway and the second runway. The decision comes after a trial last month proved successful.

 Planes will now take off from the second runway during peak hours so that the airport can increase the frequency of flight movements and more slots can be given to airlines. 
 
 A senior official of AAI said they would increase the aircraft handling capacity from 36 flights per hour to 42. “The procedure used for air traffic control could also be perfected to reduce delays on ground and on air,” he said. The trial started with small aircraft using the second runway for take-off and later bigger planes such as A320 and B787s took off from the runway. 
 
 The procedure called cross runway operations has helped the airport handle   during twice-a-week maintenance of the main runway. 
 
 Earlier, flights had to be regulated and whenever an airline overshot the closure time, delays resulted. Now, the second runway is used for departures. 
 
 The regional connectivity scheme has also given a boost to the airport’s operations. “Airlines have announced new flights to small towns to make the most of regional connectivity boom. Vistara will be starting services, while SpiceJet will increase frequency of its flights,” he said. 
 
 Use of second runway has come as an advantage because airlines use small planes like   Q400 on most of the routes to the small towns. These planes do not need a lengthy runway.
 
 Straightening of the taxiway near the cargo terminal and rapid exit taxiways are ideal for smooth functioning of simultaneous use of the runways. 
 
 But there was a feeling that there is no need to wait till repair work is completed. The earlier attempts at cross runway operations were not continued because of this bottleneck. 
 
 An official said after the ongoing work, construction of a rapid exit taxiway will begin next year. When both the taxiways are ready, the airport will be ready for full fledged simultaneous take-off and landing on the two runways. 
 
 AAI is also planning to remove obstacles and have a safety zone on the end of the second runway by then.
 
 
