BENGALURU: A child’s parents staged a protest in front of  ,  ,  , on Tuesday, alleging an injection administered by an intern-nurse at the hospital 16 months ago has rendered their two-year-old boy bed-ridden and speech-impaired.

 The parents, who were accompanied by activists from an NGO, have filed a medical negligence complaint against doctors, nurses and the hospital with the   (KMC), saying their son Niranjay Manoj cannot sit, turn around or move his neck.
 
 In November 2016, Niranjay was seven months old when he suffered from cough, wheezing and respiratory trouble and was admitted multiple times at the People Tree Hospital’s branch in Dasarahalli. The boy was shifted to the ICU of the hospital’s Goraguntepalya branch when his condition deteriorated.
 
 “On November 29 morning when doctors suggested his discharge, a nursing intern gave my son an injection. As my son’s course of antibiotic injections was over, I asked him about this injection, but he just said that madam had told him to administer it. The child was given an adrenaline injection when he didn’t need one. All he had was wheezing. Soon after the injection, Niranjay turned pale and fell unconscious,” said Manoj M V, the boy’s father and a Dasarahalli resident.
 
 The comatose boy was shifted to the ICU again and discharged on February 14. With the insurance package not covering the entire bill of Rs 2.9 lakh, one of the doctors paid Rs 1.79 lakh to the patient’s family to clear the bills, the parents said in their complaint. “The doctors had said the boy would become better in 5-6 months. But his development has only been hampered,” rued Manoj. 
 
 Doctors who treated the boy said he was suffering from lung infection and adrenaline was a life-saving injection that had to be administered to him.
 
 KMC authorities confirmed receiving the complaint and said the case is yet to heard. The family has also filed a private complaint under Section 200 of the Criminal Procedure Code in the court of the additional chief metropolitan magistrate in Bengaluru.
 
 Members from the Native Empowering and Equipping Team for Hope and Interaction (NEETHI) accompanied the parents during the protest.
 
 
