PUDUCHERRY: The centralised admission committee (Centac) has commenced second round of online counselling from Wednesday for admission of students into postgraduate   and dental courses in government and private medical and dental colleges and hospitals in the Union territory of  .

 The candidates, who were allotted seats in the first round but did not join the courses, can appear for the second round of counselling by paying Rs 25,000 (Rs 12,500 for SC/ST/OBC) under government quota seats and Rs two lakh (Rs one lakh for SC/ST/OBC) for management quota seats as registration fees.
 
 The last date to pay registration fee is April 28 while the last date for updating the preferences is April 29. Only those students who pay the fees will be permitted to enter their preferences. The candidates can transfer the registration fees to the committee’s bank account and update their transaction details online to choose their preferences in the second round of counselling. The committee will publish the allotment list of students on April 30.
 
 The committee will refund the registration fees to the candidates, who fail to avail a seat while the fees will be forfeited if the candidates failed to join after being allotted seats. It said candidates from religious minority category and linguistic minority category will be considered for counselling for admission in Pondicherry institute of medical sciences (Pims) and Sri Venkateshwaraa medical college (SVMC) respectively.
 
 Seventeen postgraduate medical seats (12 under government quota and five under management quota) were filled after the first round of the counselling that concluded on April 20. The students had already deposited the fees in committee bank account. The committee had also transferred the fees to the respective colleges.
 
 Meanwhile the students offered seats under management quota under minorities’ categories charged that the private colleges have been inordinately delaying their admission process.
 
 Presently, 72 medical seats under government quota and 78 medical seats under management quota are vacant in a lone government medical college, two self-financing minority institutions and a private medical college and hospital.
 
 Lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi had earlier warned the private medical colleges and deemed universities flouting norms of stringent legal and administrative action. Bedi said any violations on the part of the private colleges and deemed universities in the admission of students cleared by the centralized admission committee will lead to ‘serious consequences’. 
 
 Centac coordinator ( )   while quoting a   order said once the fee was deposited with the counselling authority, the candidates are deemed to have been admitted. He warned that private colleges refusing admission despite payment of fees will face legal action. “Stringent action as per guidelines will be initiated against those colleges which refuse/deny admission,” Goud warned.
 
 
