Edson Arantes do Nascimento was in total disbelief when his father walked home one evening and said that he had heard his son’s name being mentioned on radio when they announced the Brazilian squad for the 1958 World Cup in Sweden. A month later, the teenager, all of 17 years and better known as  , had the world at his feet with his dribbling skills and powerful shooting ability. 
 
 
 
 
 Pele’s performance in the 1958 World Cup was the beginning of a journey of the game’s first true global superstar who mesmerized football lovers and captivated them for the next two decades.
 
 Pele’s six goals in the 1958 World Cup pales in comparison to Frenchman Just Fontaine’s 13 goals in the tournament, but it was the Brazilian who left the Swedish shores with a lasting legacy.
 
 Brazil had an array of stars, Garrincha, Vava and Didi, at their disposal at that time and a troublesome knee meant that Pele was unsure of his spot in the Brazilian squad bound for Sweden. But his teammates rallied around his inclusion and he repaid their faith in abundance.
 
 The injury meant that Pele didn’t play Brazil’s first two group matches but was picked to play against Soviet Union, who made their World Cup debut in Sweden. He didn’t score in that game but displayed glimpses of his talent and provided a defence-splitting pass for Vava to score in Brazil’s 2-0 victory.
 
  
  
 In the quarterfinal against Wales, Pele scored his first World Cup goal, the only goal of the game, and celebrated it by throwing himself into the net.
 
 France was their next opponent in the semifinal and with Fontaine in great goal scoring form it was tipped to be a tough encounter for Brazil. But Pele proved it otherwise as he scored thrice in just 23 minutes as Brazil ran out 5-2 winners to book a place in the final against Sweden.
 
 The hosts Sweden had around 50,000 people rooting for them at the Rasunda stadium for the final and they went ahead in the fourth minute. But Vava struck twice in the first half to give Brazil the lead. In the second half, Pele came on to his own as he scored twice while Mario Zagello scored the other to help Brazil win 5-2 and lay their hands on the World Cup trophy for the first time. 
 
 Pele describes the first of the two goals he scored in the final as one of the “most beautiful goals” of his career as he chested a cross from the right before flicking it over a defender’s head and volleying it home.
 
 Pele thus became the youngest player to play and score in a World Cup final, and a global legend was born.
 
