Lucknow boy  , famous for his roles in movies Heropanti, Pink and Poster Boys, got engaged in Lucknow, recently. The actor exchanged rings with the city-based aspiring journalist   at an elaborate ceremony organised at a popular resort on the outskirts of the city. Raashul and   will be tying the knot in December this year. While sharing his love story with us, Raashul said, "Although it is an arranged marriage, my interview published in   helped me find my soulmate. When LT featured the Raksha Bandhan special feature on my visit to the city in August last year, Manisha, who is a friend of my sister  , who ties rakhi to me, read that interview on social media. From that interview, the whole story started and ended with our engagement. And now we are waiting for the wedding." 
Giving all the credits for this alliance to his sister, Raashul adds, "After that feature, a discussion related to me started happening between Manisha and Nupur and I don’t know how Nupur managed to get Manisha’s parents to meet my parents. So in all of this LT has played a very important role in my professional as well as personal life."
 
  
  Meenakshi and Raashul on their engagement held in Lucknow recently (BCCL)
 
 
 
 Belonging to the film and TV industry now and developing good connections there, the actor who is currently seen in the on-air TV show  , shared that his better half wants to be a journalist. "Manisha wants to come on-screen, but as a news anchor and not as an actor. So after marriage, the scene is going to be like I will be doing films and she’ll be doing my interview," shares Raashul with a laugh.
 Talking about the wedding arrangements Raashul says all is being taken care of by his family since he will be busy shooting in Mumbai. "I thank God that my family is so supportive and cooperative. My elder brother has taken the command of the arrangements and my sister and mother are busy shopping for the wedding. So I am tension free," says he, adding, "I am very excited to start a new life with Manisha. Since nine years I have been living alone in Mumbai and things are going to be different after marriage when she will also come there."
 -- By Adnaan Rizvi
 
