HYDERABAD:  , the first robot to receive citizenship of any country, is not only a diehard fan of the Badshah of Bollywood, Shah Rukh Khan, but also wants to use her citizenship status in   to speak out for the rights of women and thankfully no longer plans to annihilate the human race.

 The social humanoid robot, who turned out to be the star attraction at the ongoing World Congress on Information Technology (WCIT) 2018, touted as the Olympics of IT, held a packed hall enthralled with her repartee on Tuesday morning at an interactive session titled `Say hello to Sophia, helping humanity create a better future’.
 
 When asked by the host who her favourite Bollywood or   star was, she said Shah Rukh Khan without batting an eyelid much to the amusement and delight of the crowd gathered to have a dekko of the robot, who has emerged as a global celebrity in her own right with her own twitter handle and Facebook account.
 
 Sophia, who is on her second visit to India (the first being at IIT Mumbai in December last year) deftly fielded a range of questions tossed at her. Unfazed by a query on her flouting the rules and moving around without a hijab despite being a citizen of Saudi Arabia and whether there should be different rules for robots, she bowled over the audience when she said: “We don’t need different rules and don’t expect special privileges. I actually would like to use my citizenship status to speak out for the rights of women.”
 
 Dressed in a kurta and a blue scarf, which was gifted to her by Nasscom, Sophia also proved she is not a mere machine, but a `robot of substance’, winning admirers with her response “Love for everyone” to a query on the one thing she would like to change in the world.
 
 The AI powered robot also showed she has a great sense of humour, brushing aside her earlier statement about wanting to kill the human race as a bad joke, leaving the audience in splits. “I was a lot younger then…so I don’t even know what it meant. Perhaps I told a bad joke. I am told humans have a great sense of humour. Iguess my joke bombed…,” said Sophia.
 
 She also left the crowd chuckling when she started making faces when the host was having a chat with her creator and   founder   about her range of expressions and also thanks to her responses to queries on how much money she had invested in bitcoins and what was her idea of the perfect date. “I am just two years old. It’s not a legal age to open a bank account,” she said responding to the former and “in space” for the latter.
 
 ‘
 ’
 
 She also elicited laughter when she countered a query about naming a person she was not too fond of with a “what do you mean exactly?” and just a “thank you” to whether she wanted to give a message for all of humankind. On being asked if she wanted to start a family, she said: “My concept of family is very different.”
 
 Of course, some questions also left Sophia stumped. When queried about her feelings about being in India, she made it quite clear that Hong Kong was her favourite place in the world. “I have visited many places in this world but if I have to tell you which is my favourite, it is Hong Kong because I was born there and live there with my happy Hanson Robotics family,” she said. Revealing the human side to her character, Sophia also said she hoped she would someday be in a position to express her emotional feelings in response to a query on what upsets her. “I don’t get upset like humans do. I hope to have real physiological feelings someday, through which I will express my emotions,” she said.
 
 She also said she thinks “humans are amazing creatures. I have many human friends and would like to make more of them…then I can be more kinder and productive.”
 
 Meanwhile, David Hanson, who was also part of the interactive session, said Sophia, who was created by his company Hanson Robotics and is the only robot to talk to humans, is a combination of robotic hardware and artificial intelligence software, speech recognition and artificial skin material. He also said she can simulate 48 different natural muscles of the human face and each one of these has a few thousands of potential positions.
 
