Pennsylvania: Taking a cue from the sweet success of   in India,   has introduced the brand in its home country. The US’ No.1   acquired Sofit, a soy milk beverage in India, from   in 2012. The product has been test-launched as  .

 The Pennsylvania-headquartered company also plans to launch Sofit, positioned in the snacking category in the US, in other countries. The US snacking market is worth $103 billion and   commands a share of nearly 15%. Hershey, the second-largest player, has about 8%. The introduction of Sofit nutritional bars by the $7.4-billion Hershey highlights CEO Michele Buck’s plan to take the company beyond chocolates and make it an innovative snacking powerhouse. 
 
 Hershey is the latest multinational consumer products company to launch an Indian brand in the Western market. In the past,   (Fair & Lovely,  ,  ,  ), PepsiCo (Kurkure) and Nestle (Maggi Masala), among others, have taken India-developed products, either in its original or modified form, to other global regions. Fair & Lovely, a 1975-innovation from India, is sold in over 30 countries.
 
 A senior Hershey executive said that the company has been selling Sofit nutritional bars online to gauge consumer interest. The protein snack was launched under Sofit as it has the characteristics associated with health and energy, the executive added.
 
 Hershey hopes Sofit to work in North America (including Canada) — its biggest revenue generating market. About 85% of the sales come from North America. The remaining 15% comes from international markets. 
 
 Buck is betting on emerging economies like India, Brazil and Mexico to boost Hershey’s international revenues. The company, which entered India through a joint venture with Godrej from 2008-2012, will be investing $50 million to scale up its local operations. The plan is to focus on its premium offerings even as it looks to discontinue low margin products. 
 
 “We are in the process of evolving our portfolio in India,” said Steven Schiller, president-international, Hershey. “We will not invest in commoditised and low-margin products (referring to acquired brands — Jumpin and Nutrine). At the same time, we will evaluate launching some of our US brands in India, products that will help shape Hershey’s future.” 
 
 The company’s iconic brands like Reese’s peanut butter cups and Hershey’s Kisses are yet to make its debut here. 
 
 (The writer was in the US at the invitation of Hershey)
 
 
