DAVOS: A day before bidding for   that is facing bankruptcy action,   chairman   on Wednesday said his group will analyse other opportunities thrown up by the government-and RBI-driven exercise to clean up bank balance sheets.

 Jindal told TOI that his group is interested in Bhushan Steel, Monnet Ispat, Binani Cement and the power business of   as they fit into his group strategy. “We’re in four major businesses… NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) has thrown some interesting opportunities for consolidation and they fit into our scheme.”
 
 In the first round, RBI had identified a dozen companies for action under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code enacted 18 months ago and JSW has emerged as one of the most active players, looking to acquire stressed assets. The fate of several of these companies will be decided over the next few weeks as process has entered the final stage.
 
 While Jindal maintained that his group was focusing on four companies at the moment, he did not rule out the possibility of looking at more opportunities in the future and insisted that funding and structuring will be a mix of options. “We are looking at different structures. We are looking at private equity, strategic partnership and some where 100% will be by JSW,” Jindal said.
 
 Asked if he had put in place a war chest for the planned acquisitions, Jindal said: “There is nothing like a war chest. It is a moving target and will depend on the size. We can take a small equity and merge it with the main company later.”
 
 Jindal has been a vocal supporter of action against errant promoters and went public with his demand to keep them out of the bidding process. During the interaction, however, he said that he had no role to play. “A lot of people feel that it is because of me but that’s not true. I strongly believe that promoters of companies that are not doing well may acquire the company at a lower value, which is not fair to other companies that have performed. It is economically and politically not fair.”
 
 The government’s move to keep promoters of companies that turned non-performing more than a year ago out of the bidding process has faced criticism with some of them, as well as bankers, suggesting that the valuation will come down and will benefit bidders such as JSW.
 
