CHANDIGARH: Police on Wednesday claimed to have cracked five   cases, with the arrest of three members of an inter-state gang of thieves.

 The accused were caught from JJ Colony of Wazirpur, Delhi, in a joint operation by Delhi Police and Chandigarh Police. Five silver crowns, one silver canopy and a silver shield were recovered from them.
 
 While addressing mediapersons, UT SSP Nilambari Vijay Jagdale said the accused have been identified as Resham Singh, 24, a resident of Udham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand, Harjeet Singh, 30, and Manbeer Singh, both residents of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. The SSP said they shared the CCTV footage of the accused with their counterparts in Mohali, Punjab and Delhi. The three were caught on a tip-off.
 
 The SSP said the accused came to the city to commit thefts from Delhi two days in advance. They conducted recce of temples during daytime and struck at night, choosing roadways buses for commuting within the city. After the thefts, they used to return to Delhi.
 
 The accused had targeted city’s temples because they thought that the police did not have any criminal record of them.
 
 A local court sent the accused in police remand for five days.
 
 Police claimed to have solved four temple theft cases in sectors 16, 24, and 27 (two cases) and Saketri temple of Panchkula. However, the accused were not involved in the Sector 19 temple theft. Police officials said they would try to recover stolen jewellery of other temples.
 
 The SSP said Harjeet Singh was the main kingpin of the gang. The SSP said three more persons were involved in the gang, but were yet to be arrested. All the accused have a criminal record. Harjeet Singh had been booked and arrested under Arms Act and for theft cases. Manbeer Singh was a tabla player in gurdwara at Faridabad and had stolen cash from its cash box. Resham Singh had worked in   and in a call centre before he joined the gang, the SSP said.
 
 WHERE THEY STRUCK
 
 April 11 | Accused targeted two temples in Sector 27 and fled with silver jewellery worth Rs 10 lakh.
 
 March 23 | Three masked persons broke into Sanatan Dharam Temple in Sector 16 and fled with seven silver crowns, one silver canopy weighing around 1.25 kg, one small gold canopy, two gold nose rings, two gold tikkas and a silver “kavach”. The accused also took away Rs 50,000 from the cash box 
 
 February 20 | Six masked miscreants stole gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 30 lakh from six temples located inside the main temple complex at Mahadevpur in Saketri
 
 January 9 | Five masked persons stole silver ornaments worth Rs 3 lakh from Shiv temple in Sector 24. The accused took away a silver sheet weighing 6kg, three silver crowns (each weighing 1.5kg), and idols made of brass
 
 Tabla player, Malaysia-returned
 
 Harjeet Singh, the kingpin of the gang, had been arrested under Arms Act and for theft cases
 
 Manbeer Singh was a tabla player in a gurdwara at Faridabad and had stolen cash from its cash box
 
 Resham Singh had worked in Malaysia and in a call centre before he joined the gang
 
 Three more members of the gang were on the run
 
 
