The students of Government College of Fine Arts,  , are elated that five of their students are going to participate in the  , organised by the Lalit Kala Akademi in Delhi. The group, accompanied by their professor Manoj P K, are on their way to Delhi.

 The event that will kick off on February 4, will be on till the 18th and will bring artists from across the country and abroad onto the same platform. Among the umpteen artworks to be showcased will be both established artists as well as those struggling to find a platform. The artists from Kerala will exhibit around 50 paintings, eight sculptures and a few paper works, created by 100 artists from the college.
 
 Manoj is literally on cloud nine when he says that this is the best opportunity that his students could have ever got. “Our presence at the event will effectively provide more visibility to our college, and in turn it may bring art enthusiasts from outside Kerala to our college. It is sad that we don’t have much of an art gallery culture though we have talented artists.”
 
 This will definitely give artists a glimpse into how galleries work elsewhere in the country, he says. “Our students will get a chance to meet prominent artists from across the world. Policymakers too are likely to grace the event, and it will help aspiring artists learn about how to be professional and conduct an exhibition on their own.”
 
 Manoj recollects how his students worked wholeheartedly for around one month at a workshop held at the college, during when they created each artwork. Before they embarked on their journey, they had conducted a preview of the works at the college, which received a warm reception from teachers and students alike.
 
 Druvaraj N V, a final year student of the college is one among the five students who will take charge of their stall in Delhi. To participate in such an event while still in college is very motivating, he says. “This is a proud moment for all of us. Even those who couldn’t make it here are happy that we will be interacting with renowned personalities and representing our college in Delhi. I hope that our hard work will be appreciated by the people at the fair.”
 He adds that it would be a huge learning experience as well. “Around 300 stalls will be put up at the fair and they will be as diverse as they can be. Each artist’s treatment will teach us something new.” His friend Ali Akbar says it is sure to boost their confidence as an artist.
 
 Most of them have another reason to rejoice, as this visit would mark their first ever visit to Delhi and they would finally get to see what the capital city looks like. Vishnu Prasad, another student, says that given that Delhi is considered an art hub, they will get to meet artists from different social and cultural backgrounds. 
 
 “It will help us get a wider perspective about art and future prospects. We have been allotted only a limited space, we are now planning to use the space to the fullest so that our creativity gets the maximum exposure,” Vishnu says.
 
 He concludes, saying their career prospects will definitely brighten after the event. “We will get to know about a lot of popular galleries and they, in turn, will definitely take note of our works. We hope some among us might be called and even asked to be part of art exhibitions in the future. This will definitely strengthen our career prospects.”
 
