In India, menstruation has always been a taboo subject, and has been shrouded in myths. However, things are changing. Whether it’s a Hindi film like Padman or youngsters coming out on streets to highlight the importance of menstrual hygiene, this topic is being widely discussed. Yesterday, on the occasion of Menstrual Hygiene Day, Mumbai witnessed several events that focussed on spreading awareness about the subject. 

 A week-long festival on this, titled ‘Maasika Mahotsav’, which was celebrated across seven states in the country, also came to a close yesterday. It saw multiple awareness drives, yoga sessions, interactive workshops and cultural programmes, in the city. Nishant Bangera, founder of the organisation celebrating the festival, says, “We used games, sporting activities, street plays and other creative ways to break the taboos associated with periods.” 
 
 
 Apart from all-women football matches, the fest also saw cultural programmes, where singers and dancers brought out the different aspects of periods. To highlight a significant moment during one of the programmes, participants used brooms to literally sweep away the cobwebs of myths. Nishant says, “We had an art installation in the form of a spider web and words synonymous with periods were stuck on it. Women were given brooms and they symbolically swept away the taboo words.”
 
 At another event,   from an organisation that fights superstitions, reiterated that multiple myths and superstitions surrounding menstruation need to be done away with. “The fear and ignorance around menstruation is rampant even today — don’t touch the pickle bottle, do not indulge in sports and other activities, etc. The need of the hour is the removal of superstitions, and it needs to begin in schools and reach out to older women and homemakers,” says Vandana.
 
 At an event organised by a holistic health and wellness hub, the aim was to spread awareness about healthy menstrual care practices. Many health experts were roped in to help people gain an insight into menstrual health. Another session highlighted use of menstrual cups instead of pads.
 
 
 
