NEW DELHI: “How could a girl who was hopping around from one room to the other one day die days later?” mumbled the distraught father of the six-year-old girl who died in hospital on Friday. After the hospital informed them that she had succumbed to injuries sustained most likely in a sexual attack, the shocked   are certain she was assaulted by someone known to her. 

 The father, who owns a construction materials supply business, spoke to TOI after the girl’s funeral on Friday and narrated how their lives changed on Monday. His daughter’s class teacher had casually asked him to come to school and take the girl home because she was complaining of pain in her thighs. “I found my daughter behaving in an unusual manner. She did not talk to anyone, just lay in her mother’s lap. She was in obvious pain,” he said. “When her condition worsened, we took her to a doctor in the locality, who prescribed painkillers and massaged her legs.” 
 
 Clutching his daughter’s photograph close to his chest, he said that the girl seemed to be unable to speak after coming back from school on Monday. “She would wake up at odd hours and start crying. In the last two days of her life, she was hallucinating as well. Her condition bothered us a lot and her mother kept weeping about it.” 
 
 The girl’s grandmother desperately said she would do everything possible to find out what had happened to her. “I saw the child crying with pain and suspected someone had hurt her,” she said. 
 
 For some days, the family thought the girl had pulled a muscle. It was only on Thursday, when they took her to Ganga Ram Hospital that they were told of her internal injuries. 
 
 “We should have taken our daughter to Ganga Ram on Monday itself,” the father grieved. “At least, her chances of survival would have improved with proper medical attention.” 
 
 The younger brother of the girl has been constantly asking the parents where his sister is and questioning his father about the crowd at home. The mother is in a state of shock and has been staring at the ceiling ever since she saw her daughter’s small body wrapped in white cloth. 
 
 The father himself is at breaking point. “It breaks my heart to even imagine what my daughter had to go through at her age. She must have been trying to tell us what happened, but none of us understood and we will never forgive ourselves,” the father despaired. He said he just wanted to give up everything, but added poignantly, “It’s just that I know there will be nobody to get my daughter justice if I back out at this juncture.”
 
 
