There are somethings that I make sure to do during the summer months. I try to be in the shade, have room temperature water, wear cotton clothes and have lots of curd or lassi.

 
  I drink lots of water and keep myself hydrated. Obviously, I avoid getting out in the sun.
 
 
  When summers, I rush to Goa to beat the heat. I am a water baby and love visiting water parks in summers. Also, during summers, I like to keep it minimal when it comes to styling. I also beat the heat by drinking lots of water, juices, coconut water, mocktails and ice creams. To beat the heat, I hit the beach.
 
 
 The first thing I do is apply a lot of sunscreens so that my skin doesn't get affected and I don't get a sun-tan. I drink lots of water to keep myself hydrated and try having watermelon juice and coconut water daily. I wear light coloured clothes and wear shades to protect my eyes.
 
 
 I try wearing white or other light colours and drink a lot of water and watermelon juice too. 
 
 
  Yoga in the pool keeps me cool. I stay hydrated with plenty of plain chilled water and green iced tea. I try to workout in and around water bodies.
 
 
  I try drinking as much as water I can. I love summer as I get to wear shorts, summer dresses, and light colour clothes. 
 
 
  I increase my intake of liquids and decrease solid food. I prefer salted chaas, nimbu paani. Also, I don't step out without my glares during the day as the skin under our eyes is most sensitive and delicate and can be easily damaged by UV rays. I also wear light clothes for maximum ventilation.
 
 
 Mumbai summers are not just super hot but also humid. To fight dehydration, I drink ample amount of water and juices. Wearing lighter clothes also helps. I always carry a couple of fruits like watermelon and muskmelon, which helps me stay cool. I make sure to apply loads of sunscreen and try to be in the shade.
 
 
 Coconut water is my favourite when it comes to beating the heat. It helps you stay cool as well as energised. Dehydration is what makes summer so tough.
 
 
 Drink a lot of liquids and wear as minimal clothes possible mostly in shorts and a vest during summers. This is my mantra for these months.
 
 
  I love chaas, coconut water, watermelon, and aamras. I wear white and light blue clothes as these help me stay cool.
 
 
 I have watermelon juice or a fresh fruit smoothie to beat the heat...and yes, I wear very light coloured cotton clothes. I also have a lot of water throughout the day and I have vitamin C rich foods.
 
 
 The best thing is to drink water as much as you can and also coconut water. You should also pamper yourself with juices, but the best is water. 
 
 
