MUMBAI: The killing of BBlunt finance manager   could have come to light earlier had the   treated it as more than a missing person’s complaint. Experts say that the DB Marg police should have lodged an offence of abduction the moment it became clear that circumstances of Kirti’s disappearance is suspicious. Their inability to make any progress in the case for three weeks prompted Kirti’s family to approach the police commissioner and seek a transfer to the crime branch, according to her father.

 “The police manual provides that where circumstances of a person’s disappearance are suspicious, a case could be registered. Registration of an FIR reinforces seriousness. It provides a platform to start investigation,” said former IPS officer YP Singh. The DB Marg police had gone through CCTV footage and knew that Kirti had got into a car with two of her colleagues on the morning of the disappearance. They had checked the mobile records of the duo, Siddhesh Tamhankar and Khushi Sahjwani, and knew they were in Wadala later the same day. But Tamhankar and Sahjwani put the officers off the scent. 
 
 “Time was of essence in this case. It’s not that the DB Marg police weren’t making efforts, but registration of an offence would have made the efforts more specific. They could have searched Sahjwani’s vehicle better (Kirti was allegedly strangled in the SUV),” said Singh.
 
 “The police station is busy in multifarious activities with crime investigation being just one of them. Missing person’s complaints could get neglected as police station personnel are bogged down by law-and-order management in their jurisdiction. This case once again highlights the need to separate the crime investigators from those handling law-and-order management at police station. We had made this recommendation to the government in the past,” said former police commissioner MN Singh. 
 
 “We were using the theory of elimination of possibilities. There was no angle that wasn’t looked into. But this case required a deeper probe which is why it was transferred to the crime branch,” said senior inspector Pandurang Shinde of DB Marg police station. —Nitasha Natu
 
 
