Actor-filmmaker   discusses her film 'Manto', censorship and freespeech.

 
  
 
  Everything in my life has happened by default. I knew about   and had read his stories. During his birth centenary in 2012, I got to read a lot about him and his writing. I got interested and started learning more about him. Manto, in a way, champions the free spirit; he talks about identities beyond religion and nationalism, and freedom of expression. I share many of his concerns and by doing a film on him I got an opportunity to talk about these. He provided me with the opportunity to respond to the problems of today. 
 
 
  
 
  In Manto's life, the line between fact and fiction was blurred. I wanted the tone of the film to be a bit Manto-esque. All his stories are intimate accounts of people. My film is not a cradle to grave depiction. Manto was sentimental in his stories, he wrote and left them. He did not manipulate feelings or tell us how to feel. It is difficult to show this in a film as Indian films tend to be manipulative and to tutor the audience. I tried to give a glimpse into Manto's work while seamlessly interweaving the story of his life with the stories that he wrote. 
 
 
  
 
  Yes that is very interesting. When a book of Manto comes out in Pakistan, people there say he is the greatest storyteller of Pakistan. When a book of his releases in India, people here say the same. I think that's fantastic. With this film, we can have a better understanding of Manto in India and Pakistan. Who can bridge the gap between the two countries better than Manto? Maybe a sense of South Asian identity will emerge for him. Of the many reasons Manto is being made, this is one of them. 
 
 
  
 
  True, very little has been written about Safia and it was only during my research and spending time with his daughters and sister that I collected anecdotal information about her. Because Safia lived longer than Manto, their daughters remembered her more. She has been beautifully portrayed in the script. In the film, we will get to see a new side of her. Rasika (actor Rasika Duggal) was my only choice for the role after I saw her in 'Qissa'. 
 
 
  
 
  Yes, 'Fire' was released without a single cut 20 years ago. I wonder whether we are going forward or backwards. This is a time to reflect. For any society to grow, we have to see the good and the bad. Even in 'Manto', the author's character is grey. No country, no society is all good. We have to show the bad so that we can find a solution to it. It is a time to reflect on what kind of country we are creating. If you don't like a film, tell people not to watch it, but you cannot threaten me or vandalize the hall. 
 
 
  
 
  Anything that is worth saying is going to be provocative. I have not done 'Manto' to sensationalise or create a controversy. I don't think that is the intent. What is controversial about a writer wanting to be himself? That is what the film is about. I don't think there will be any problem. I feel you have to be driven by your conviction. Instead of worrying about what is going to happen, I think having faith in your conviction is the best way to deal with the situation and that's what I am doing now. 
 
 
  
 
  I don't get to see many Odia films in Mumbai. While I am a proud Odia and I love the state, I won't choose to make a film on the basis of language. It must be a good film, a good story. I would love to do films on the amazing stories of Manoj Das. 
 
 
