HYDERABAD: Located amidst swanky multi-storied buildings and multi-national companies, Patrika Nagar in Madhapur paints a grim picture, with the locality ridden with bad roads and an abysmally poor drainage system. Residents of the area complain how these civic problems have been haunting them for years now.

 For instance, the main Patrika Nagar road, connecting to the   road, is riddled with potholes and overflowing sewage water. “It is ironic that while the arterial roads in Hi-Tec City are in a good shape, the internal roads in Patrika Nagar, located in the middle of upscale IT firms, are worse than those found in villages,” said  , a content writer, living in the area since 2015.
 
 The battered roads around Maxcure Hospital in Patrika Nagar has, in fact, has left motorists struggling
 
 
 
  
  
 
 to commute through the stretch. Residents claim that the bitumen roads have been damaged due to frequent overflowing of sewerage. “Due to constant overflow of sewerage water on the roads, we are unable to even walk around the colony for the past six months. The battered road has also added to the dust pollution in the area,” said Vikas Jaani, a resident.
 
 The colony that houses a population of over 50,000 people, mostly IT professionals, has seven roads.
 
 Previously, the   (RWA) submitted several complaints with officials of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) over the civic issues, but to no avail. “It is not just battered roads and overflowing sewerage but also absence of street lights, lung space and regulation over encroachers in the area that have made our lives miserable. While the   sanctioned relaying of roads in the colony, the work is yet to begin,” said M  , general secretary of the Patrika Nagar Residents Welfare Association.
 
 The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation authorities also attributed the condition of roads to a poor drainage system. “The existing sewerage system in the area cannot take up the drainage discharge. The 200 metre pipeline around Maxcure Hospital was laid a decade ago. The pipeline is unable to accommodate the sewerage as the habitat has increased in the area. Therefore, the sewerage frequently overflows on the streets damaging the roads,” said Sudarshan, executive engineer, west zone of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation.
 
 Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation officials said that they have now changed the pipeline by laying a 600 metre line of reinforce concrete cement. “While the drainage work has been completed, the relaying of roads shall be taken up shortly,” said Sudarshan.
 
