- Adnaan Rizvi

 A ctors  ,   and Nushrat Bharucha’s visit to Lucknow to promote their film   on Thursday, was filled with fun and nostalgia. The trio, who was last here to promote their film Pyaar Ka Punchnama 2, remembered their last visit. For Nushrat it was the seminar that she attended at the 1090 Women Helpline during her last visit that was still fresh on her mind. "I remember when all of us were last here, we had gone to meet the then UP CM  . The meeting was really a memorable one as he not only briefed us about a unique women’s helpline that he had launched but also took us for a live seminar there. We got a chance to understand the entire process. It is such an amazing thing to start in any city," said Nushrat, adding, "Also, I love Lucknow ka chikan work. Pichhli baar jab hum log aaye they, since we were busy with the promotions of the movie, we asked someone to arrange for a chikan shop in Janpath market to be opened for us. We promised the shopkeeper to buy a handsome amount ka chikan stuff from him. And the whole experience of aadhi band dukan ke shutter ke neeche se jaana was really amazing. And I still have that collection of chikan kurtis and suits, all in white, with me, which I wear often. This time though I don’t have much time, I will be buying chikan stuff from a shop at the Lucknow airport."
 The actors, wanting to see more of Lucknow, headed to the old city for a quick sighstseeing tour before their press meet. The trio, upon sighting a tonga, took a ride on it near the Bada Imambara. The three actor were amazed seeing the heritage monument from outside. "I am really fond of horses and I ride them quite often too," said Sunny, adding, "In Punjab, I still take a tonga ride whenever I go there. Seeing this beautiful heritage monument   from outside, sitting on a tonga, is a picture perfect moment for me. Abhi tak I was only in awe of the structures and parks in the Gomti Nagar area, but now after seeing old Lucknow, I am amazed. Kitni sundar jagah hai yeh." 
 Even Kartik was wowed by the architectural beauty of the Bada Imambara. "Bada Imambara is humongous! Although I have visited Lucknow several times, I never really got a chance to see this monument earlier. But now I realised why people used to tell me that it is a must-visit place in Lucknow. Bada Imambara sahi mein bahut bada hai!" he said.
 And well, the tonga ride wasn’t the only thing that the three actors did in old Lucknow. The trio also ate candy floss which reminded them of their childhood days. "Yeh toh buddhi amma ke baal hain!”exclaimed Kartik, as he saw the candy floss seller. “The moment I had a bite of it, I was reminded of my school days. We used to have a grand fair at Gwalior where eating cotton candy would be the first thing on our wish list," said he. 
 However, not many people know that Kartik shares a special bond with Lucknow and has been a frequent visitor here. "I have a special connect with Lucknow as my college friend, who is also my best buddy, Utsav Jaitley, lives here. I have been quietly coming to Lucknow several times to meet him. While professionally I announce it on my social media account, on other occasions I keep it private," shared Kartik.
 Interestingly, Kartik has been to more well-known places in Lucknow with his friend. "Hum log yahan raat mein bahut ghoome hain. I used to wander around with my friend for the whole night in Lucknow. Humne raat ko Lucknow mein bahut gedi maari hai, especially in areas like Hazratganj, which still is the heart of Lucknow."
 
  
 
