CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday demanded arrest of former minister  , who had joined the   last year, for attack on villagers holding a protest against a farmer’s suicide. It alleged that Congress Kisan and Khet Mazdor cell president   and his men did so in Ferozepur district when the villagers had kept the body of the farmer during the protest, who committed suicide after his land was snatched allegedly at Zira’s behest.

 
 Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia said Zira led more than 200 men to the Zira police station on Monday, where villagers and kisan unions were peacefully protesting and demanding action against Congress leaders for falsely registration of 9.50 acres of a family, which had been tilling it since Independence. Majithia said this forced 25-year-old Jatinder Singh to commit suicide. Majithia was accompanied by another Akali leader Sikander Singh Maluka.
 
 Majithia alleged that, “Congress men led by Zira first closed down the market on Monday and then cut off power supply before attacking the peaceful protesters with bricks, stones and sharp-edged weapons, injuring villagers, who were later admitted to Faridkot hospital.” The former minister also alleged that Zira’s men even tried to take away the body. He further alleged that all this occurred in connivance with the district police “as SSP   and several other officers, including DSP Jaspal Dhillon, were present at the police station”.
 
 Majithia has demanded registration of an attempt to murder case against Zira and his associates. He said the family of Pritam Singh of the Kacharbhan village had been tilling 9.50 acres for the last around 60 years and the girdawari was done in their name in 1974. The Akali leader alleged Zira connived with the village namberdar and along with his brother got the land registered illegally in the name of the wife of his personal assistant Rashpal.
 
 The Akali leader further claimed that after Jatinder’s suicide on April 29, the local police at Zira police station even did not register a case and tried to give some other causes for the suicide. This forced the villagers to protest with the victim’s body at the police station for demanding justice.
 
