CHANDIGARH: Panjab   (PU) is staring at the biggest-ever administrative reform, with a governance reforms committee recommending restricting the   and   to make policies only.

 Sources said trivial issues like increments of staff also reach the  , the highest governing body of the university. The committee is recommending such issues be stopped at the vice-chancellor level and the governing bodies make only policy decisions.
 
 For example, the last senate meeting discussed issues like assignment of faculties to certain professors and increment to staff. “We are trying to make the recommendations that the governing bodies of the university primarily focus on policy making. The time of the senate and syndicate should be invested in making policies for the academic and administrative purposes and not engage in personal fights in the house,” said a senior member of the committee.
 
 The committee’s recommendations include making some changes in the regulations to simplify the administrative procedures. Sources said there is another concern that the participation of PU-affiliated colleges in the matters concerning the university alone should be restricted. Sources said the governance reforms committee is also of the view that only complex issues should reach the vice-chancellor for decisions and routine issues should be resolved at the lower level. For instance, the issues like professors applying for casual leave also needs VC’s approval. This is something the committee members think that the academic heads of the departments and centres can do.
 
 Another recommendation is that the academic heads, including deans and chairpersons, should be empowered. Decentralization is another suggestion. Sources said the deans should be made more powerful and tasks should be categorised. The committee has been holding meetings from last six months and will finalize this proposal in another two months.
 
 The university syndicate has 15 members and the senate 91 members. The committee is also contemplating to look into the constitution of this house, said sources.
 
 
 
 
 Only complex issues should reach the vice-chancellor for decisions and routine issues be resolved at lower level
 
 Academic heads, including deans and chairpersons, should be empowered
 
 Participation of PU-affiliated colleges in matters concerning the university should be restricted
 
 
