CHENNAI: Nearly 96 % of vehicles in   do not adhere to mandatory provisions of obtaining pollution clearance certificates once in every six months, says state transport department data released in May 2017.

 The data, pertaining to 2015-16, says 3.4 crore vehicles on the roads in the state did not fulfil the said requirement.
 
  
  
 
  mandate every vehicle to obtain a valid Pollution Under Control Certificate (PUCC) one year after registration. The PUCC is valid for six months and owners are expected to renew it by with emission tests at recognised centres.
 
 On average, only 12 lakh vehicles obtain these certificates every year. 
 
 A fine of Rs 400-Rs 2,000 can be collected from the violators depending on the vehicle. Besides the irreparable damage caused to the environment, the government is losing out on revenue, say experts. 
 
 The rules don’t allow regional transport offices (RTOs) under the state transport department to issue fitness certificates (FCs) without production of emission certificates. 
 
 However, government records say, in 2015-16, FCs were issued to nearly 20 % of commercial vehicles without emission certificates. 
 
 This shows Tamil Nadu has miserably failed in implementing pollution control measures, said an expert who advises government on policy decisions. “There is a shortage for pollution testing centres across the state.”
 
 At present, there are only 280 authorised centres in all the 32 districts. “So, each centre should test at least 350 vehicles a day. This is practically impossible,” the expert added. 
 
 A senior transport department official said the business was not profitable and not many were keen on setting up these centres. “Attempts by the state government to resolve the issue by setting up automatic vehicle testing centres is also under limbo as the central government is yet to clear the proposal.” 
 
 Land near the IT corridor at   in Chennai was identified for such a centre in a project which was to be funded jointly by the state and central government. February 2019 was set as the deadline for states to complete automation work. 
 
 Tamil Nadu’s proposal in the recent   meeting, requesting the Centre to extend the deadline at least by two years was accepted by all the participants and a resolution was passed for the same.
 
 
