PATNA: A day after it allowed the schools on Tuesday to resume academic activities for all the classes from Wednesday, the Patna district administration made a U-turn of sorts and ordered suspension of classes up to V till January 19 in view of the weatherman’s forecast about cold wave conditions till January 20.

 In view of the severe cold conditions detrimental to the health of children, the district administration had not allowed the schools to resume academic activities for classes up to VIII in the first week of January after the winter vacation in schools.
 
 Current DM Kumar Ravi, however, allowed the schools to reopen from January 17 even though the India Meteorological Department on Tuesday issued an alert about a western disturbance in Afghanistan adding to the severity of cold conditions in most parts of Bihar till January 20.
 
 Hours after the children, heavily wrapped in woollens, waded through a dense fog cover to reach their schools on Wednesday morning, DM Ravi issued a fresh order, asking schools to shut classes up to V till January 19 and conduct academic activities for the students of other classes between 10.30am and 2.30pm.
 
 The Wednesday’s order brought relief to many worried parents. However, it also had a section of the children studying in classes VI and above as well as their parents sulking.
 
 “My school is situated on the banks of Ganga where it feels colder. Won’t I fall ill just because I am a year older than the students of Class V?” asked a Class VI student of St Michael’s High School.
 
 Homemaker Payal Singh agreed with the Michaelite. “This relief should have been meant for the children studying in classes up to VIII,” said the Alpana Market resident whose son Aryan studies in Class IV in DPS and daughter Rhea in Class IX in Notre Dame Academy.
 
 Payal said it was spine-chilling cold when she went to drop her son at the bus stop on foggy Wednesday morning. 
 
 However, Reshma Khan had a different opinion. “It’s good that the administration has asked the schools to open at 10.30am and wind up at 2.30pm,” said the Ashiana Nagar homemaker whose one son Aahil studies in Class I in International School and the other son Aryaan in Class VII in Scholar’s Abode School. 
 
 Pataliputra Colony’s Moni Nandani, whose daughter is a Class VI student of Notre Dame Academy, also thanked the DM for his order on the timing.
 
 
