
 The UP-born film director and screenwriter,  , was recently in Lucknow to attend a private event. The ' ' and ' ' director talked about the city and the current scenario emerging, as well as changes happening in Bollywood.
 
 
 
 I have been a frequent visitor to the city since I was born in Obra, near Varanasi in the Sonbhadra district. Also, I have lot of relatives who live in Lucknow. The last I came here was to attend one of my relatives’ wedding in December 2017. And if we talk about the food and culture of the city, that’s what Lucknow gives a tough competition in to other cities of India. But now I don’t see the old Lucknow anymore. Like, from the airport to the hotel, I saw a well-developed city with such huge buildings. Lucknow has become a modern city now. I haven’t been to the old city since a long time, but the changes happening in new Lucknow are very surprising.
 
 
 It is very unfortunate that Hindi is the language of UP and the Hindi film industry has developed in Maharashtra. Ideally, it should have been here but yahaan ke log aur sarkaar jab chahengi tab hi we’ll get to see the same things here. In the history of cinema, most of the creative people have come from UP only. All the writers and poets in the industry mostly hail from UP, MP or Bihar. UP is just lacking behind in the infrastructure because films sirf drawing room mein nahi banti. Yahaan Lucknow aur Banaras mein toh shooting hoye jaa rahi hai, but the other cities are still blurred on the map because they don’t have proper transit and exit points for smooth circulation of the filmmaking process. Ummeeden toh bahut hain yahaan se because it’s my own pradesh and though the pradesh is developing, not the people over here.
 Since UP has the highest population in the whole country, toh yahan pe loot mach jaati hai. Since the industry is not so widespread here and logon ke paas kaam bhi kam hai, so whenever we shoot here bheed lag jaati hai logon ki which affects our schedule. The people whom I know, who have shot here in UP, they are very afraid of shooting here now. They say UP mein kuchh gadbad ho gaya toh hume kaun bachayega? When we were shooting for Dabangg, for which we had planned to shoot in Banaras, Salman simply said no to shooting there. So we had to develop a fictitious town in Mumbai itself and we had to shoot there.
 
 
 
 We don’t spot out the differences in each other as both of us have different flavours of direction. I am more into a populist approach as I try to address the lowest common denominator and Anurag is more into the niche area. He makes films on exceptional stories while I make films on common stories. He is more into dark cinema while I am more into relationships and drama.
 Bhai sahab came into the industry much earlier because of which he gained success earlier too. I am not chasing fame and will not chase it either. I have been working quite successfully as a TV director and I think I got fame much earlier in my career from my first film 'Dabangg'. While he is into a lot of things like production, motivational speaking and more, I am a very private and not so social a person. I like my privacy and I work hard to protect it. Fame is just like a shaadi ka laddu, ek baar aa jaata hai toh aapke kharche badha deta hai, that’s why I am not so much after fame. I just wanted to work and usi main thoda naam, shohrat aur izzat mil gayi, toh I am satisfied with it. I don’t like getting into all the issues happening in the industry and commenting on everything. I prefer har cheez pe comment na karun as artists are sought for a lot of political opinions in this country. I am thankful people didn’t asked for my views on the SP and BSP win in the recent elections.
 
  
  Abhinav Kashyap at Ambedkar Park, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
 
 Directing young actors is way much easier as compared to the senior ones. The case with the senior ones is that you can’t expect your father to change himself at this age. They don’t experiment much and are not so much excited about change, while the younger ones work for the change. The younger group is very enthusiastic to learn and they work very hard to achieve something. In the purest form, now, the actors are working on their craft. Earlier what used to happen ki agar aap khoobsoorat hain aur aapki body bani hai toh woh Mumbai aa jaate thay hero banne. Har cheez ka ek daur hota hai. Pehle dialogues par bahut tawajjo diya jaata tha and people used to repeat those dialogues when they would see the actor. But then after that   and   came and they converted all the attention to their nicely build body. There was a trend that if anyone has to become an actor, he had to join a gym first and then after building his body, he used to go to an acting school. And then when they come on screen, they learned how to act. Toh aisa hi kalyug raha hai and hum kuchh nahi kar sakte usmein.
 
 
 
 Directing both the actors was very different. Salman jo real life main karta hai woh on-screen bhi karta hai. He always tries to be himself and aapko acchha laga toh theek, nahi laga toh theek. If he is interested in your film then you’ll get an interesting part of him on-screen. In a lot of films we have seen Salman seems very bored and it looked like he is sleepwalking through it. Those are the films he is not interested in but may be doing for some reason. 'Dabangg' was a super-hit movie because he was seen alive as a character and he was also enjoying it. So we got to see a happier version of Salman in the film, while on the other hand what we saw in 'Tubelight', was him as a bored actor.
 Ranbir comes under the younger category and youth ke saath kaam karne mein energy aati hai as unke seekhne ki bhook bahut zyada hai. Salman will be Salman but Ranbir wants to be Salman, toh usmein bhook bahut zyada hai. He is too enthusiastic to learn something new and master it. He has a super grasping power jahaan woh character ko ghol ke pi jaata hai and he works hard on it.
 
 
 I was into some other business which I don’t want to discuss. Film is just a small part of my life.
 
 
 
 Hype is never been created, instead it happens automatically. In Mumbai we used to say picture garam ho jaana, so that happened with 'Dabangg' jahan logon ko movie, gaane, dialogues sab pasand aaye. And it was like sone pe suhaaga for us but 'Besharam' mein ekdum ulta hua. Usmein picture garam hi nahi hui. Jab release hui toh critics ne aur slam kar diya. 'Besharam' se ummeeden bahut thi jabki Dabangg se bilkul nahi thi. Salman ki bhi 'Wanted' ke baad koi film sahi se nahi chali thi, as 'Main Aur Mrs Khanna', 'London Dreams' and 'Veer' had flopped. 'Besharam' mein hamara hype chhota pad gaya as the trailer and the song which we released didn’t catch the audiences’ attention and dhulayi ulta ho gayi. Isliye maine usse bhi seekha that we shouldn’t think too much about a film. Give your best and leave it to God.
 
 
 
 I think if I’ll speak about it after so many years of the first part, it will look like a complaint. I am not a performing artist. The public wants Salman to do the other two parts that is why he is doing. Main ab saari zindagi 'Dabangg' hi likhta rahunga toh woh TV serial ho jayega. Arbaaz Khan ko jab tak usse maal kamaane ko milega woh us se banaate rahenge. Creatively there is nothing which I can do there. It takes around a year or two to write a whole film and I think meri taqdeer mein 7-8 films hi likhi hain. So I want to try something different every time as I don’t believe in sequels. Not just in India, but in the other countries too, sequels are basically made to gain profit. Like in other countries mostly characters remain the same and the story changes. But 'Dabangg 2' mein mere saamne yeh bhi pressure tha ke same kahaani rahegi. It was just like the template of the first part. So, these were the reasons I didn’t want to be the part of its sequels. 
 — Adnaan Rizvi
 
 
