PUNE: Citizens, hoping to get more water from the  , will have to wait longer as the delayed water pipeline works will miss the deadline for completion. The project, which has restarted after a long break, will now be completed by March 2019. The earlier deadline was set for July 2018.

 According to a government resolution, 2.67 TMC water from the reservoir has been allocated to the civic body, while around 1 TMC has been earmarked for Pimpri Chinchwad. A 26-km pipeline is to be laid in the first phase of the project, while the second phase will see the laying of a 16-km pipeline.
 
 “The deadline has been extended. We hope the farmers’ problems will be resolved by then. However, if the farmers continue with their agitation, the fate of the project will again hang in the balance,” said sources. According to them, a 6-km stretch of the pipeline will be laid first. Right now, there is permission to build only 5 km of the pipeline. If the demands are not met with, work on the remaining 1 km will be stalled. V G Kulkarni, the head of PMC’s water department, confirmed the development. “The civic administration is trying to speed up the works. We hope to complete the project on time,” he said.
 
 The project is important for the   area. For more than 25 years, this area — covering Kharadi, Chandannagar, Kalas, Wadgaonsheri, Vimannagar, Yerwada, Dhanori and   — has had a scarcity of drinking water affecting the lives of nearly five lakhs citizens. These citizens are forced to pay a steep price for water supplied by tankers.
 
 Ashish Mane, an activist of the Wadgaonsheri Citizens Forum, said the delay is frustrating. “The project is very important. However, neither the political leaders nor the civic officials seem to be taking it seriously.”
 
 The project has been stuck due to the demand for water by the project-affected villagers and also the land compensation issue. While the demand for water has got a green signal from the authorities, the issue of compensation is yet to be resolved.
 
 
