BHOPAL: A day after being appointed as state   president,   announced on Thursday that preparations for assembly polls has begun in the right earnest.   president swung into action on the first day after taking charge. He performed puja and took charge at the party office. Several party leaders, including  , who is angry with the party after was asked to step down from the post of minister along with  , met the new state chief. 

 Rakesh Singh denied that his elevation has been done because he comes from Mahakaushal region, where   stalwart   has a strong base and said he is concerned about entire state and not just a single region. "Let all Congress leaders unite, but public is with BJP", Rakesh Singh said.
 
 He also met senior BJP leaders and said there is no factionalism within the party. "BJP will win assembly elections and Lok Sabha polls in 2019 with a bigger margin for which every party worker would work tirelessly", he added. He did not comment on two Brahmin BJP leaders in state saying that Brahmins are on the edge in today's politics and said BJP has a number of senior Brahmin leaders. Regarding party's target of getting more than 200 seats in assembly elections, he said the party has already won 173 seats and the 200 plus target is achievable. Replying to leader of opposition   calling him a compromise candidate, Rakesh said Ajay Singh is son of Arjun Singh, who always gave balanced statements. "Ajay Singh should not resort to cheap politics", he added.
 
 Rakesh spent a lot of time at the party headquarters in the day. The leader said party workers from entire state come here. His presence made the party headquarters lively, which otherwise remain deserted, as former party president did not visit the party headquarters often. "I am the only BJP president who has addressed media nine times in the past two days", he added. Sartaj Singh told TOI that he made a courtesy visit to new party president and discussed important things. "I am firm on my stand not to contest elections", he said.
 
 
