
  
Last seen on 'Ayushman Bhava', actor Sumit Bhardwaj, who has always played positive characters in his career so far, will turn negative for the first time for a fantasy thriller. The show will also feature   as the male lead. Sumit will be introduced as a positive character, but as the story unfolds, he will turn out to be the mastermind behind all the evil happenings.
 
 
 
 
  
 Shocked? Well, Ashita Dhawan Gulabani, who was last seen on 'Dil Dhoondta Hai', will play Praful’s (Rajeev Mehta) wife along with Hansa (Supriya Pathak) in 'Khichdi'. Apparently, Babuji (Anang Desai) is granted a boon and he asks for another wife for Praful. That’s how Ashita’s character (Komal) comes into the picture. However, unlike her character’s name, she is a loud-mouth when she gets angry. The actress says, “It’s a cameo of four days. The character is quite eccentric. While on one hand, she is a docile and doting bahu, on the other hand, she is quite loud and angry.” 
 
 
 
 
  
 Life has come full circle for Neha Kakkar. The singer, who participated in the second season of 'Indian Idol', has now graduated to being one of the judges in the upcoming 10th edition of the music reality show. Neha says, “My singing career began with me being a contestant on this very show and now, I’m going to be judging it. I instantly took up the offer, because the journey from being judged to judging on the same stage is going to be a memorable experience for me. I still remember the excitement of being shortlisted and selected in Top 10.”
 
 
 
 
  
 Akanksha Puri had a rather challenging task on hand when she had to portray the 10 avatars of Mahakali on the show, 'Vighnaharta Ganesha'. The team did extensive research to design the look of the Goddesses —Mahakali, Tara, Shodashi, Bhuvaneshwari, Bhairavi, Dhumavati, Baglamukhi, Matangi, Kamala and Chhinnamasta. Every deity has a distinct look, unique accessories and weapons. Apparently, a team of about 15 make-up artistes was brought in to style her over a period of three days.
 The actress, who essays the role of Parvati on the show, said, “After playing different avatars of Maa Durga, I am now getting to don the 10 avatars of Mahakali. It was an exhausting experience as my look had to be changed constantly and some of them needed me to use body paint. It’s challenging, but enjoyable at the same time.”
 
