GHAZIABAD: The chief judicial magistrate on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of  , an accused in the Rs 3,700 crore online ‘like’  .

 “The court was of the view that given the serious nature of crime, it would not be appropriate to grant bail to Mittal. Hence his plea was rejected,” said SP Singh, the public prosecutor.
 
 The CJM had Monday deferred the bail plea hearing by a day as Mittal’s lawyer did not turn up in the court. The same day the investigating officer of the case submitted all the documents pertaining to the case which had been sent back to him after errors were found.
 
 BTech graduate Anubhav Mittal (26) is currently lodged in Dasna jail since his arrest in February last year on charges of running the Ponzi scheme. It was alleged that Mittal’s company Ablaze Info Solutions Private Limited that operated from Noida had tricked more than 6 lakh people into giving him their money through the scheme that promised big returns for hitting ‘likes’ online.
 
 The company allegedly perpetrated a fraud of Rs 3,700 crore employing this ‘like’ modus operandi. The fraud came to light when some people claimed that they had not got the money even after clicking on the URLs, the links of which were sent on their phone, as promised by the accused after subscribing to the scheme.
 
 The accused told the investors that the company got business from a third party to increase the latter's online hits on digital platforms. The investors were given 25, 50, 75 and 125 URLs on their phones every day according to their subscription plans.
 
 Five other persons, including his wife   and father Sunil Mittal, are also in Dasna jail. All the six have been charged for cheating and forgery and under the provisions of Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978.
 
 The Enforcement Directorate, which is currently probing the case, already froze Rs 520 crore in 12 accounts of the company. 
 
 Ponzi schemes are illegal and punishable under The Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act 1978. Mittal’s bail plea has been rejected many times in the past by the   court.
 
 
