GURUGRAM: Where is Guru  ? No one in Gurugram seems to know.

 
 A statue of the mythological teacher, whose association with Gurgaon was cited by the state government to change the city’s name to Gurugram last year, has gone missing from a park that had been its home for at least the last 30 years.
 
 Officials said this was also the only known statue of Dronacharya in the city.
 
 The six-feet statue of the ‘guru’ stood in the middle of the park near   surrounded by the five Pandava princes, his students in the Mahabharata. The statues of the Pandavas — a few notches shorter at 5.5 feet each in deference to their teacher — are not to be found either. All that remains of the park is a mound of brown earth, excavated to make way for the service road of a new underpass that has been built there.
 
 No one knows what has become of the statues. The National Highways Authority of India ( ), which built the underpass, doesn’t know who removed the statues. Gurgaon’s municipal corporation (MCG) can only guess that they could be at a warehouse but isn’t sure either.
 
 Saurabh Singhal, traffic transportation expert at Bloom Companies, the project consultant for NHAI, said, “We didn’t remove the statues. Perhaps, the MCG might have done that on its own.” Sudhir Chauhan, senior town planner, MCG, said, “I am not aware of the statues at Rajiv Chowk. If they have been removed, they must have been kept at the warehouse of MCG in Sector 39. We shall put them up again at the right time.” Other officials TOI spoke were also unsure about whether the statues were there at the warehouse.
 
 The Haryana government led by   officially changed the city’s name to Gurugram in September 2016. Explaining the provenance of Gurugram, Deepa Antil, a city-based historian, said, “It is believed Gurgaon was given as gurudakshina to Guru Dronacharya by his students, the Pandavas, and hence was named Gurugram. This name, in the course of time, got distorted to Gurgaon. This is the reason people had demanded the name of the city be changed from Gurgaon to Gurugram.”
 
 Residents fear these statues may have been destroyed or damaged. “Why do the authorities have no clue about them? If they took down the statues for the development of the city, they should have reinstalled them somewhere else. They renamed the city Gurugram but can’t keep Guru Dronacharya’s statue intact,” said  , a resident Model Town.
 
 “I have been a resident of Gurgaon for more than 61 years now. Earlier, people used to call Rajiv Chowk Guru Dronacharya Chowk. This intersection was renamed after development work started in the city,” Sharma added.
 
 Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, a resident of old DLF and a regular visitor the park where the statues stood, said, “I would go to the park for a walk every day. Few people in the city knew of the statues and there were hardly any visitors to the park, except for those who came for morning walks.”
 
