Actress   said working on the Bollywood comic caper   was an exciting journey but she doesn't find comedy an easy genre.

  
  
 Actor-singer   will be back in uniform, this time with Kriti and actor  , for a laugh riot.
 
 "'Arjun Patiala' was such an exciting journey. Comedy is not an easy genre, and we have added a twist to it. Diljit and Varun have a great comic timing and it was a constant laugh riot on the set," Kriti said in a statement. 
 
 Dinesh Vijan, who is producing the film with  , said, "Diljit will be seen in the uniform but very different from his avatar in his first Hindi film outing, 'Udta Punjab'. 
 
 "This 'police wallah' is a laugh a minute character with swag."
 
 Diljit said, "'Arjun Patiala' is very quirky. It's a film that has action, romance and comedy but with a spin on it. It was a blast shooting it and I hope audiences love it as much."
 
 Varun will be seen as a police official with a sarcastic tongue and an arrogant stride, who goes by the name of  . 
 
 "I'm very excited to see the audience's reactions as it's a very special. They've given me so much love and appreciation, I want to make sure they have a great time at the theatre," he said.
 
 The trio has a baddie to contend with as   steps out of his 'good friend' avatar to roam the campus, his hair tied up in a patka, piling up the corpses without batting an eyelid. His character is called School, pronounced in the Punjabi way as Sakool.
 
 "The Rohit Jugraj-directed laugh riot offers plenty of action and dollops of bubble-gum romance. We believe in doing something different every time, and since we have never attempted an out-and-out comedy before, we decided to experiment with one which is more situational than slapstick. 
 
 "If this film works, we would be happy to spin a franchise with (characters) Arjun, Onida and Ritu returning as the principal players. We already have an idea for a part 2 and like   and 'Fukrey', Arjun will be back with a Patiala peg every couple of years," Vijan said.
 
 The film is scheduled to hit the theatres on September 14.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
