Breastfeeding is a beautiful and natural experience; it is a unique time when you feel very close to your baby. Breastfeeding is indispensable for the wellbeing of both-mothers and their babies. It helps your baby fight off viruses and bacteria as well as in reducing the baby’s risk of having asthma or allergies. Babies who are exclusively breastfed for the first 6 months are less likely to suffer from ear infections, respiratory illnesses and diarrhoea. 
Breast milk is not only the best nutrition that you can offer to your newborn, but it is also a blessing for you. According to a recent study, women who breastfeed for six months or more are less expected to develop  .
 
 The study titled Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults (CARDIA) started in 1985 and was carried out for a period of 30 years. Researchers found that breastfeeding for 6 months or more was linked to a 47 % reduced risk of type 2 diabetes as compared to those who chose bottle-feeding.
 
 Previous studies have also established that breastfeeding offers significant health benefits for both the mother and her baby. It has also been proven that breastfeeding helps new moms to lose excess weight, control   and blood sugar levels.
 The study involved 1,238 women and none of them had diabetes when they had first enrolled or before they became pregnant. They were screened regularly before and after their pregnancies. Moreover, they were tracked for their lifestyle habits such as diet, exercise and their breastfeeding choices.
 
 Erica Gunderson, the lead author of the study observed that there is a strong association between the duration of breastfeeding and risk of developing diabetes. The risk of diabetes decreases with increasing duration of breastfeeding; even breastfeeding for less than six months was associated with a lower risk by a quarter.
 
 This study gives doctors, nurses and hospitals as well as policy makers yet another reason to support and encourage women and their families to breastfeed for as long as possible. Breastfeeding is a woman’s personal choice but the expectant women or new mothers should consult their doctors or nurses so that they can make an educated concerning their baby’s feeding regime.
 
 
 
 
