PATNA: The   officers of   launched their own forum, Bihar Ex-Servicemen Association (Officers), at their meeting under the chairmanship of Col (retd) V K Singh here on Saturday.

 Singh told this newspaper on Sunday the new forum would be open for all retired defence officers of Bihar, irrespective of the fact whether they have settled down in or outside the state after superannuation. The association would become functional from January 14 only.
 
 Singh said the Armed Forces Day is observed on January 14 to commemorate the superannuation date of the first field marshal Gen K M Cariappa. Thus, it was unanimously decided to make the new forum functional from this historic day, he said.
 
 According to Singh, the aim of the forum is to strengthen the bond among all retired   officers of the state. It would carry out various welfare works for the serving and retired Army personnel and their family members. The association would also work as a medium to implement the state government’s welfare measures for the Army men and their families, he said.
 
 Rehabilitation of the martyrs’ families in Bihar would be the biggest challenge for the association, he said. It has decided to look for the bridegrooms for the young martyrs’ widows and make them settle in life. Besides, the association would also provide all possible assistance to make martyrs’ children pursue their education in better schools, he said, adding the association members would collect used syllabus books of students and distribute them among the needy children.
 
 The association also resolved to provide basic knowledge of computers and other advanced technology skills to the martyrs’ children under the experts’ guidance. The association also decided to take up an issue with the state government to build a war memorial at each district headquarters as a mark of respect for the martyrs and ex-servicemen in the state. A war memorial at Ara was immediate need as the maximum number of Army personnel belonged to Bhojpur district only.
 
 “The very purpose of the association will be to seek immediate solution to the problems facing Army men and their families in the state. It will also motivate retiring officers from Bihar to work for the association and help the state grow economically stronger as well,” he said.
 
 
