KOLKATA:   resident  , who had kept his mother’s corpse in a refrigerator for three years, is convinced that he possesses indepth knowledge about reviving the dead. The 46-year-old told doctors at Calcutta   that he has been researching on this subject for a long time and was about to get a patent for his findings.

 “From our assessment, the patient is suffering from a series of psychotic conditions, including grandiose delusion and delusion of persecution,” Dr  , head of psychiatry at Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital told TOI. The professor of psychiatry is heading the seven-member medical board treating Majumdar.
 
  
  
 According to doctors, delusion of grandiosity is a condition where the patient has a false and fixed belief that he possesses supreme power and knowledge. In this case, Majumdar believes that he is capable of reviv ing his mother   who died three years ago. A person with delusion of persecution, on the other hand, suffers from fear that people are constantly conspiring against him with the intention to harm and hurt.
 
 Majumdar was brought to Pavlov Hospital on April 6 and a seven-member medical board was formed to examine and treat him. The board has interacted with him twice and doctors said he is quiet, calm and cooperating. Apart from asking for a commode in the toilet and refusing to wear the hospital uniform, he has not made any demands.
 
 “While he is cooperative when it comes to aspects like food and medication, he refuses to listen to any rational argument,” Ghosh said.
 
 Majumdar prefers not to interact with other patients and has been asking why he needed to be in the hospital when he had a lot of research work to complete. “A part of the psychometric tests have been conducted on the patient. The CT scan and MRI tests are pending and these should be done in a day or two,” said Ghosh.
 
 Earlier, doctors at   had conducted the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) on Majumdar where he scored 64, indicating that he was suffering from psychotic disorders.
 
