Surat: The development of National Salt Satyagrah Memorial (NSSM) on 15 hectare land at Dandi in Navsari at a cost of Rs 89 crore is underway for the last 15 months and is likely to be ready by the end of 2019. 

 However, the   and Prathna Mandir, where Mahatma Gandhi stayed during the Dandi March, are not part of this project. The local district administration gets grant of Rs 50,000 per month from Gujarat tourism department to maintain the historical structures. 
 
 The Union ministry of culture funds the NSSM through High Power Dandi Memorial Committee (HPDMC), while the Gujarat government is in-charge of upkeep of Saifee Villa and Prathna Mandir since 1964. 
 
 Whereas, the 106 hectare of land marked for the development of Dandi memorial is under the Gujarat tourism department.
 
 Vice-chairman of HPDMC Sudarshan Iyengar told TOI, “Saifee Villa at Dandi seashore is very much an integral part of Dandi memorial project. The whole memorial tour for a tourist starts from Saifee Villa. But its responsibility lies with the state government. It must act pro-actively and own the project, which it has not being doing till now.” 
 
 The Archeological Survey of India (ASI) team from Vadodara did some restoration work in 2016 at Saifee Villa and Prathna Mandir, but the structures still need a lot of renovation and conservation work.
 
 Navsari district collector’s office has been asked by the state government to take care and maintain Saifee Villa and Prathna Mandir since January 2018. Navsari administration put up a demand of Rs 12 lakh per year. But, the state government has allocated Rs 50,000 per month for maintenance of the two historical structures. 
 
 “It is difficult to maintain a historical site that is a part of country’s independence struggle. The amount granted by the government for its upkeep is peanuts reflecting upon the concern that the government has towards the monuments. It is time state government takes up this issue seriously and designate an agency on long-term basis to take care of the site,” a senior official from Navsari district administration said. 
 
 “Presently, HPDMC takes care of the development of Dandi memorial. But once it is ready, the state government agency will have to take over to maintain the site. It is time state government acts,” he added.
 
 
