CHANDIGARH: The   datesheet instead of bringing relief has only added to the stress levels of the students and their parents. On Friday as well, the datesheet remained the main topic of discussion in schools. Several students and parents wrote to   (CBSE) requesting them to make changes in the datesheet. Students and parents from Tricity also signed an online petition in this regard. On the other hand, school teachers tried to motivate and guide the students of Class XII, especially those of humanities stream.

 TOI on Friday had reported that no considerable gap between the exams of some of the major papers in all the streams has raised the anxiety levels of Class XII CBSE board students and their parents.
 
 Principal of KB DAV School, Sector 7   said, “Class XII has one preparatory leave for physics, which is a tough paper and Class X has one leave for social science, which also requires proper revision. Even if a learner has devoted time throughout the year, he/she will still face difficulty in revising everything in one day. This has made many children nervous.”
 
 Teachers spent their day giving tips to students. “Students can make a calendar outlining a daily schedule of topics for review. They should try to stay calm and not panic. Proper sleep and diet are must. Read all the chapters and understand the sub topics and only then prioritize the topics on difficulty levels. Prepare your own notes and a chart with important dates. Make the notes with headings and sub headings so that you can revise whole syllabus even in a single day,” said  , TGT social studies at AKSIPS-41 Smart School.
 
 “I am disappointed by the reckless attitude of a responsible body like the CBSE in scheduling the Class XII examination. Board exams and competitive exams are once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for students, which can make or mar their future. The datesheet currently announced only adds to the despair and stress of the students, instead of relieving them of it. I want it modified and that is why I have signed an online petition,” said  , a student.
 
 Saroj Rajput, a parent whose daughter is a Class XII student of humanities stream, said, “If the children don’t get proper time to revise before taking the  , then it might affect their performance which will prove as a hindrance in getting admission in good colleges.”
 
 “The Board must listen to parents’ grievances as it is not just Tricity parents but parents and students of the entire country who are writing about it. We have written to CBSE and have also signed an online petition. Even after this, if the CBSE doesn’t pay any heed to the pleas, then it will be disheartening for parents as well as students,” said  , a parent.
 
 Meanwhile, for NEET aspirants, experts have advised that students finish revision of physics and chemistry papers by February end and also devote gaps between exams for NEET revision as well.
 
 “The class XII exams for the medical and non-medical stream students should get over as early as possible in March itself. Most of the students take physical education paper as their fifth subject which is on April 9. The students should not panic and should try to make the best use of available time. The students aiming for NEET need to remove the mental barrier of studying for only Class XII syllabus during the exams. The students should thoroughly brush up on their physics paper in the last week of February itself considering there is only one-day gap before physics,” said NEET trainer and academician Arvind Goyal.
 
 He added that NEET aspirants must spend a maximum of four days for preparation of physical education paper and devote the rest of the eight days for preparing for the NEET. They should devote four days each to chemistry and physics paper while preparing for boards.
 
 
