Ranchi:   chief   on Friday pleaded before the Jharkhand high court for provisional bail on medical grounds. His advocate has appealed to the court, saying Lalu needs three more months for treatment of various illness related heart and kidney in advanced medical centres. Lalu, who has been convicted in four   cases till date, is undergoing treatment in AIIMS, Delhi, under judicial custody.

 Lalu had filed petition for the provisional bail in all the three fodder scam cases in which special CBI courts have convicted him during the last four months. The cases are related to fraudulent withdrawal of money from the Dumka, Deoghar and Chaibasa treasuries. In 2013, Lalu had been convicted in another fodder scam case related to the Chaibasa treasury.
 
 The hearing for the provisional bail for the cases related to Deoghar and Dumka treasuries came up for hearing before court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh on Friday.
 
 Lalu’s lawyer Chitttranjan Sinha said, “We have appealed before the court stating that Lalu has ulcers in his rectum and could turn fatal if infected.” He said Lalu’s kidney was also 60% damaged adding that his blood pressure and sugar level were not under control.
 
 “We pointed out that AIIMS reports, too, have stated that Lalu’s blood pressure was fluctuating and the sugar level was also not under control. We argued that Lalu needed sometime for getting his blood pressure treated at the Asian Heart Institute, Mumbai, where he had undergone heart surgery. He also needed treatment for his kidney at Medanta hospital,” Sinha said.
 
 “The court has directed the CBI to file its reply on the AIIMS report and scheduled the next hearing on May 4. It also asked the defence lawyers to give in writing why it wants provisional bail for Lalu,” Sinha said.
 
 Lalu was imprisoned at the Birsa Munda central jail since his conviction in the fodder scam case related to Dumka treasury on December 23, 2017. Lalu, however, developed several medical problems and was admitted to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, on March 17. After a few days, the RIIMS board recommended that Lalu be shifted to AIIMS for better treatment. Lalu’s lawyers, however, have now claimed that his condition has not improved significantly in AIIMS as well.
 
 HC stay on arrest warrant against RJD MLA
 
 The Jharkhand high court on Friday stayed the arrest warrant against RJD MLA   asking him to appear before the special CBI court within seven days and explain his stand. The special court had on Thursday issued a non-bailable warrant against Yadav after he failed to appear in court in a contempt notice. Prabhat Kumar, who filed petition on behalf of Yadav, said the contempt notice was issued after Yadav gave statements in media against the court’s judgment on Lalu in the Dumka fodder scam case.
 
 
