HYDERABAD:  , the festival of colours, was a grand festive occasion during the Qutub Shahi rule with the king personally participating in the celebrations throwing the pleasant musk mixed with colours on the royal and common participants.

 Incidentally, this year’s Holi marks the 500 years of the foundation of Qutub Shahi dynasty and the building of the   Fort that exist today.
 
 And the visit of the US ambassador to India Kenneth I Juster to the Qutub Shahi tombs on the eve of Holi has led the social media to discuss how the festival of colours was celebrated during the Hyderabad of yore.
 
 According to heritage experts, Holi was an official holiday for the Qutub Shahi government, particularly during the reign of Ibrahim   IV, Mohammad Quli Qutub Shah V, Mohammad Qutub Shah VI, Abdullah Qutub Shah VII and last Qutub Shahi ruler Tana Shah.
 
 If Holi was a one-day holiday during the Qutub Shahi regime, it was a two-day shutdown during the Asaf Jahi period, particularly in the reign of the last Nizam,  .
 
 Moreover, Holi was one of the four Hindu festivals during which the Nizam would personally participate and honour eminent personalities from the majority community.
 
 A Golconda miniature painting dating back to the 17th century CE showing the king celebrating Holi with the members of the royal family and court stands testimony to the communal harmony and religious tolerance that existed in the Qutub Shahi Hyderabad. A copy of the painting by unknown artiste, probably depicting Mohammad Quli Qutub Shah, the founder of Hyderabad and builder of Charminar, or Tana Shah, was in circulation on social media, particularly WhatsApp.
 
 According to   convenor P Anuradha Reddy, Qutub Shahi rulers celebrated Holi not only as the festival of colours but also to herald spring. She said the Golconda miniature painting has the floor of the royal palace depicted in yellow, the colour of spring and prosperity. The powder used was fragrant and the painting shows it spread all over the floor. Musicians would entertain the Sultan and the gathering. The rulers and the members of the royal family heartily participated in the ritual of sprinkling hues.
 
 City historian Dr Mohammad Safiullah said a perusal of the gazette notifications issued by Mir Osman Ali Khan reveals the importance attached to Holi. “For instance, the government calendar for 1944 shows two days holiday for Holi. Dasara and   too had two days of holiday for the government,” he added.
 
