JAIPUR:   in   has clocked double-digit growth in a row for the second year in 2017 raising the occupancy in the state’s hotels to pre-recession period and making   the second busiest one in the country.

 Despite a higher base of 17% growth in 2016, the arrivals increased by 10.50% to 45.91 million visits in 2017 riding on the rush of domestic travelers and an improvement in foreign tourists inflows. The buoyancy in domestic tourism was fuelled by destinations like Jaipur, Mount Abu, Pushkar, and Jaisalmer.
  
  
 
 But inbound tourism is still an area of concern even though the trend in the last couple of years shows an initial turnaround. After witnessing degrowth of 3% in 2015, it has bounced back with a 3% growth in 2016 and 6% in 2017.
 
 Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, tourism, environment & forest, art & culture said that the rising curve is a secular trend which has taken root in the sustained marketing and promotional activities the department is pursuing for the past couple of years.
 
 “The department is hosting cultural shows in overseas markets and participating in the leading travel marts in the world by roping in travel agents and tour operators. Marketing and networking in global markets is the key in increasing the inbound segment. These activities will show better results in the coming years. That’s why we are bullish on the foreign   arrivals,” explained Agarwal.
 
 The department organized Rajasthani cultural evenings in Brazil, participated in International French Travel Market in Paris, ITB Asia (Singapore), World Tourism Mart (London), international tourism trade fair FITUR in Spain and recently ITB Berlin.
 
 “What we have done over the past couple of years is to take the ecosystem players into confidence. We ensured that the delegation to these events also included tour operators selling Rajasthan destinations,” said another official.
 
 The growth in tourist arrivals also reflected in the record occupancy in the hospitality industry. According to HVS’ annual report, occupancy in Jaipur hotels rose to the threshold of 65% for the first time in a decade. Similarly, the passenger traffic growth in Jaipur airport was the second highest in the country after Guwahati. It handled 37.8 lakh passengers in 2016-17 compared to 28.9 lakh in the previous year notching a growth of 31%.
 
