CHANDIGARH: One of the personal rooms of the Dera Sacha Sauda (DSS) chief  's palatial residence, 'Terawas' inside the dera headquarters at Sirsa has an open "digitally operated" toilet seat without any walls around it. 

 This has been mentioned in the supplementary report submitted by Anil Kumar Singh Panwar, the court commissioner appointed by the Punjab and   high court to sanitise the dera premises. The sanitisation was done after the violence that erupted in Panchkula following Gurmeet's conviction in rape cases on August 25 last year.
 
 "....There were wardrobes in the said room as well as it also had an English seat, which was electrically and digitally operated, thereby serving as toilet which was not walled," states the report. The room was on the top floor of the building which   used as his personal space.
 
 Giving a peek into Gurmeet's luxurious lifestyle, Panwar says in his three-page report that the gate of the palatial building is the kind used in monumental forts of erstwhile rulers. "Said gate opens into a big hall where a Lexus vehicle was found parked," the reports reads. 
 
 
 
 The report states, "From the said hall was running a ramp to the first floor of the building and there was even a passage through which vehicle from the road on the ground level, could also directly reach the first floor of the building." It also has a gym with the latest equipment. The report further mentions that there were two other floors in the building. Gurmeet used to live on the top floor and on the middle floor, there were two separate rooms where his daughters stayed when they visited him. 
 
 As per the report, most of the doors in the building, opening outside, were like the ones that banks use for their locker rooms. Gurmeet's room had a double bed touching the eastern wall of the room and all along on the other three sides of said room were placed modern steel wardrobes.
 
 On the southern wall along the side of the double was an opening leading to another room which had connectivity to the ground floor through a lift. The digitally operated English seat was in this room.
 
 In its report, submitted to the high court administration, Panwar has also given the total area of the dera and the infrastructure, buildings including replicas of the seven wonders of the world and a cricket stadium. The report would now be discussed in the high court on May 15.
 
 
 
