NAGPUR: An ovarian cyst weighing 30 kg was removed in a surgery performed at   (Gadchiroli) by a team of city doctors. The complex surgery was performed on a 50-year-old tribal woman as part of a surgical camp conducted by Rotary Club of Nagpur.

 Operating surgeon Dr Raju Wilkinson said, “The sonography was performed on Friday, and the patient was operated upon on Saturday. It wasn’t an ordinary cyst, as we had to drain 20 litres of fluid from it. It weighed 9kg when we finally took it out.” The doctor added that the patient will have to be kept in hospital for seven days.
 
 A team of 60 medical personnel from the Rotary Club, which included senior surgeons, gynaecologists, plastic, paediatric and ENT surgeons, anaesthetists, ophthalmologists, radiologists and pathologists conducted surgeries for tribals staying in villages of   district. 
 
 The surgeries were conducted at Lok Biradari Prakalp Hospital, Hemalkasa, which has been set up by Dr Prakash Amte. It was the 32nd such camp.
 
 Total 70 major surgeries were successfully completed by the team between January 11 and 13. It included cases of plastic surgery of burn contracture, cleft lip corrective surgeries, paediatric congenital hernia cases etc.
 
 Of the total surgeries, 20 were paediatric cases. In addition to the 70 surgeries, 93 cataract corrective surgeries too were completed.
 
 Dr  , one of the organizers, said, “From the last three months, Rotary was preparing for the camp. The hospital sent a list of patients needing surgeries. Accordingly, Rotary prepared a list of doctors based on the type of surgeries.”
 
 She was going to Hemalkasa for the 18th consecutive year. “In earlier camps, things were different there, but now the hospital has undergone a massive renovation. Currently, they have three rooms consisting of eight operation tables. The eye surgery unit is entirely different.”
 
 Twelve final year students of   and Hospital (IGMCH) participated in the camp. The team was also supported by Rotarians, Rotaractors, OT technicians, staff sisters and Jeevan Jyoti Blood Bank technicians.
 
 Amitabha Sharma, who directed the non-medical activities, said, “At the school run by  , we conducted sports events and kabaddi matches. We also distributed sweaters and carpets to schoolchildren.   was served by Rotary to all relatives of patients at the hospital on January 12, and ice creams were distributed to resident children at the Prakalp.”
 
 The club got water filters from Solar Explosives and Calderys, Imerys and MP Ajay Sancheti. Mahindra and Mahindra has been supporting the camp since the last 11 years.
 
 
