It hasn’t been an easy ride for John Abraham to bring out the   of ' '. The actor had to move court against one of his co-producers, KriArj Entertainment and Prernaa Arora, in order to set things straight. BT told you last week that the Bombay High Court had passed a judgement in John’s favour clearing the film’s release for later this month. In an exclusive chat with BT, John relived the recent turbulence in his life, equating the situation to testing a nuclear weapon.  He told BT, “We faced a lot of difficulties which are out there in the public domain. In my books, I don’t want any negativity around 'Parmanu'. I would like to thank the Bombay High Court and Justice Kathawalla for meting out justice. My co-producers were with me through the process. The project is very special for my team and me. I am a creative person who has to make films and put them out there to entertain people. That’s what I want to do.” John’s legal team moved court on May 2 when Prernaa Arora defaulted on the last leg of payments despite a legal arrangement in place. When asked what he went through when the case was still in court, John said, “It was hard on me. When someone questions your credibility, your film which is your baby and what you do, it stops being about the film. It gets personal. At one point, this wasn’t about my career, it was about my integrity. The court has validated my character and I feel very relieved and happy. I have a lot of faith in our judiciary and I am proof that justice is meted out. There were times when it was demotivating and it hurt but when there was mud-slinging, my job was to go out there and present facts in the court while keeping mum in the press. The reason we’re here is that we made a product which we’d like everyone to see. For that, I am willing to take all the pain.”  John added, “I haven’t slept. Even on the day the trailer was launched, I had packed up at 8 am and come for the launch. This has been a difficult time. I’ve had many sleepless nights in March, April and May. The victory is that the film is finally releasing, it’s not how much money it will make. After 'Vicky Donor' and 'Madras Café', this is a film from my company that people will talk about. We work really hard to marry commerce and content.”  Taking the legal recourse is never easy and is usually not the first option for most people in a conflict of any sort. John believes that it’s important for someone to take a stand. “Someone is decimating the industry and one had to stand against it. I was advised to settle the matter outside the court but I refused because I hadn’t done anything wrong. I expected the other party to go to court because I released the teaser first, and the rest is history. The order is in public domain and I wish people read it to understand what it says. It’s easy for anyone to project things but it’s the judgement that one should read and act upon,” the actor sums up.  

