CHANDIGARH: The release of the Times   (THE) Asia rankings 2018 might have pushed back the   University in the top 10 of the country but its research score has fallen from last year’s score. With a score of 10.6 in research, the university’s score on research was 14 in 2014 when it was ranked number one among the Indian institutions. The University is now at 112th rank this year in THE Asia rankings. Last year, PU was in the 121-130 slab. 

 “The research that you see today is the efforts of last three to four years and that was the time when the financial crisis of the university had just started. There was faculty shortage, the research infrastructure could not be improved. So, the score that we see today is a consequence of those things,” said director of internal quality assurance cell (IQAC), PU, Prof M Rajivlochan.
 
 While the research score is at its five-time low, the citation score of the university has increased. This year, the citation score of the university has increased from last year’s 46.2 to 55.5. However, when the university had scored the highest among Indian institutions in 2014, the citation score was 84.7. “The improvement in the citation score implies that the university’s research is of high quality and that is the reason, it is getting cited,” added Prof Rajivlochan. 
 
 PU has an overall score of 31.5 with 32.4 in teaching, 31.8 in industry income and 16 in international outlook. PU vice-chancellor Prof   said that it is commendable for PU to have improved its ranking. “The university is consistently trying to improve the performance in all spheres of education and research,” he said. 
 
 Former dean research promotion cell, Prof O P   cited the shortage of human resources as the primary reason for this fall in research. “No new recruitments have taken place in a long time. When there is faculty shortage, why would research scholars come to your university? There should be comprehensive efforts to improve this. Another reason is that we have not upgraded our research infrastructure because of the financial crisis. The research labs need upgradation and we need to give the research infrastructure at the university a boost. So, emphasis should be on these things to improve our research.”
 
 5 faculty members and 10 research scholars of the department of physics at Panjab university were among the team of scientists who helped establish existence of elusive  , or God particle. The discovery which was announced in July 2012 brought laurels to the university and the varsity had got the highest ranking among Indian universities in the   for 2014. However, due to the changed criterion, THE does not include high-energy physics research. That could be one of the reasons that subject-wise, physics department did not feature anywhere in the list. 
 
 At number 32, the university had got the highest ranking among the Indian universities in the Times Higher Education (THE)   for 2014. Following this, the university had had lost the top position in THE Asia University Rankings for 2015 to IISC Bnagalore, when the university slipped from 32 to 38.
 
 
