NEW DELHI: A day after a 17-year-old boy was apprehended for murdering his two-month-old son in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri, investigating officers said the accused had made a similar attempt earlier too. They said the teenager suspected his “wife”, a 16-year-old girl, of having an affair and presumed the baby to be born out of it.

 The details emerged after an investigating team, led by ACP (Sultanpuri) Aalap Mansukh Patel, questioned the boy, who was later sent to a correction home for counselling. Police said the boy and his “wife” were natives of Bihar and got “married” after eloping a year ago. The boy’s family had disowned him, allegedly because he was a drug addict and the girl he was in love with was from a different caste.
 
 After arriving in Delhi, the “couple” took residence in Mangolpuri. However, the youth didn’t look for a job and was booked twice for snatching, police said. While he continued to take drugs, the girl found a job at a nearby shop. “The boy started suspecting her of having an affair with one of her colleagues and asked her to quit her job. Later, when she got pregnant, he accused her of infidelity,” police said.
 
 The police had come to know about the incident when the child’s mother took him to the Sanjay Gandhi Hospital where he was declared dead. Doctors found strangulation marks on the baby’s neck and alerted the cops. The girl was questioned during which she told the cops that she suspected her husband of killing him.
 
 When questioned by cops, the boy admitted to have strangled the baby after thrashing him with a shoe. On Saturday evening, when the girl was out for work, the boy returned home drunk and started hitting the baby with a shoe when he started crying. When the child became unconscious, he strangled him with his hand and left home, leaving the body on the bed.
 
 The woman returned around 4.30pm and took the baby to the hospital. A case of   was registered. The girl was yet to recover from her trauma and was undergoing counselling, a police officer said.
 
 
