PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday said stories related to Veer Kunwar Singh’s contributions to the country’s freedom movement would be made available to children so that the new generation could take inspiration from the great freedom fighter who ensured participation of all sections of society – irrespective of religion and caste – in his fight against British rulers. 

 “Contributions of Babu Kunwar Singh in the first freedom movement were generally kept limited to Bihar. His long march up to Riwa, Kalpi, Kanpur, Lucknow, Faizabad, Azamgarh and many other provinces covering a road distance of more than 2,380km was neither widely publicised nor discussed. We now want that stories about his contributions reach the children and the new generation,” Nitish said while addressing inaugural session of a national symposium on ‘Veer Kunwar Singh and revolution of 1857’ at Bapu Sabhagar here.
 
 He said Veer Kunwar Singh took support and assistance from all sections of society in his fight against the British forces. “His warriors were from different religions. He even built mosques at Ara and Jagdishpur. The new generation should take a lesson from Kunwar Singh’s skill of taking along all sections of society. It is very important aspect of his life, especially at a time when attempts are being made to create an atmosphere of bitterness in the society,” Nitish said in an oblique reference to the recent communal unrest in the state.
 
 The CM asked the historians and writers attending the symposium to prepare factual stories on the great contributions of Kunwar Singh.
 
 Expressing concern over fast increasing pollution, Nitish said though eminent physicist Stephen Hawking warned that the Earth would cease to exist in next 200 years, he didn’t believe it would exist even for 200 years. “The way we are misusing natural resources, the Earth will not exist for 200 years,” he said.
 
 Referring to various welfare schemes initiated by the state government for welfare of girl child and women, Nitish said a unique ‘Kanya Uthan Yojna’ was recently launched to improve female child mortality rate, which is much higher than the male child mortality rate in the state. 
 
 He said under the ‘Kanya Uthan Yojna’, an amount of Rs 2,000 will be transferred in the bank account of parents soon after the birth of a girl child, while Rs 1,000 will be disbursed within a year after generation of Aadhar number of the girl child. Another Rs 2,000 will be provided to the parents after completion of the cycle of total immunisation for the girl child.
 
 The national symposium was part of the concluding day events of the three-day-long   celebrations, organised to mark 160th year of Kunwar Singh’s victory over British forces on April 23, 1858. 
 
 
