SECUNDERABAD: The contentious   closure issue has finally landed in Narendra Modi’s court with the Prime Minister assuring a group of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) members that the ministry of defence (MoD) will look into the matter and resolve it. The local military authority (LMA) has set May 31 deadline to make Gough Road out of bounds for commuters and in this connection, the visit of SCB ward members to Delhi on Wednesday assumed significance.

 “We met the Prime Minister and brought various issues, including Gough Road closure, to his notice. We urged the PM to direct LMA through MoD to reopen all the closed roads under section 258 of the Cantonment Act. The PM responded positively to our plea and gave an assurance to us that MoD will look into the issue,” vice-president, SCB, J Ramakrishna told TOI over phone.
 
 It may be recalled the MoD gave a reply to   MP Mohd Ali Khan in March when he sought clarification on closure of Gough Road. “We have deferred the closure of Gough Road four times since May 31, 2016,” MoS, defence, Subhash Bhamre said. Along with Ramakrishna, Malkajgiri MP Ch Malla Reddy and others were present at the meeting with the PM.
 
 The members also sought the PM’s intervention over LMA issuing NOCs for constructions in the surrounding areas of Cantonment. “We told him how property owners are feeling the heat because of restrictions imposed by LMA,” Ramakrishna said. clearly mentioned in the representation given to the P M that the residents of the surrounding municipal areas, Panchayats other than cantonment area falling within the 500 meters limits from the Defence Establishments for obtaining the NoC from the LMA for all construction activities. In view of this rule, the LMA is restricting the construction activity which property owners are badly affecting, said SCB V P.
 
 The board VP said a special meeting will be convened on April 30 with all-India Cantonment Boards’ vicepresidents to discuss about pending issues. Meanwhile, Federation of Northeastern Colonies of Secunderabad has sent representations to DGDE, Delhi, Telangana chief minister and CEO, SCB, along with signature campaign against closure of civilian roads in the Cantonment area.
 
