PALANPUR/AHMEDABAD: In a   of the seven year-old boy’s murder in   in Gurgaon, the murder of a class III boy in a   has turned out to a   committed by his 14-year old friend and schoolmat.

 Mehsana police arrested the class VIII boy after rigorous interrogation on Friday and he has confessed to killing nine-year-old Hiren Thakor in Sardarpur (Chikna) village near Satlasna. The reason for the murder has turned out be a fight over snatching kites.
 
 It was on December 23 that Hiren’s father lodged a complaint with Satlasna police after he did not return from the school. After nearly 10 days, his body was found dumped in a pit behind the school’s staffroom on December 31.
 
 Mehsana superintendent of police Chaitanya Mandlik told TOI that the accused juvenile and Hiren were friends as their houses were opposite each others.
 
 Hiren often used foul language at the accused, who, in return used to thrash him. “Hiranya’s mother would then go the accused’s house and pick up a fight with his family members for beating her son. The deceased’s father also used to beat up the accused and this happened at least 2-3 times a week,” Mandlik said. Khichdi vital clue: P7
 
 
 
 On December 23, Hiren and the juvenile went to fly kites and they also had ‘jhattu’, a specially made wooden stick to snatch the cut kites in air. While playing, Hiren snatched the jhattu from his hands, but the duo again started playing.
 
 After sometime, both jumped the school’s compound wall and it was here that the fight erupted between them. The accused asked Hiren to return his stick and the snatched kites and both started fighting on the staircase. When he refused, the boy hit him twice behind the ears. Hiren then started abusing him.
 
 In a fit of rage, the 14-year-old dealt him a brutal kick and as a result Hiren came crashing down from the staircase.
 
 When he continued to hurl expletives at the accused, the latter smothered his face. Suddenly, the boy got flustered seeing blood oozing out from Hiren’s mouth. He took a piece of cloth and wiped the blood.
 
 However, he noticed that his own clothes as well as the staircase got stained by blood.
 
 When Hiren died, the boy got even more scared and decided to dump the body somewhere. He left the body on the mezzanine floor and went to the castor fields located just behind the school to find a suitable place to bury him. However, seeing a girl washing clothes there, he rushed back.
 
 “He then noticed a pit behind the staffroom and decided to bury him there. He started dragging down Hiren’s body, but noticed two people waking past the staircase. The boy again dragged the body up and did this at least 5-6 times. After ensuring that no one was there in the campus, he buried the body in the pit, threw mud on his pants and arranged big stones by the side,” said Mehsana superintendent of police Chaitanya Mandlik.
 
