KANYAKUMARI: Unlike cleanliness drives in which ministers and bureaucrats strike a pose to inaugurate a drive and leave the spot in a few minutes, Padmanabhapuram   T Mano Thangaraj of DMK jumped into the Adayamadai tank near Chithirankodu in Kanyakumari district in a towel to remove the weeds along with 35 others.

 The MLA spent close to four hours in the muddy water and collected about 15 tonnes of weeds with the volunteers from youth groups and the public from 11.30 am on Sunday. “I have been motivating youth to take part in activities to conserve nature and clean water bodies. As it was Sunday and I did not have much official work, other than a few party meetings, I decided to take action,” the MLA told TOI after completing the drive at 3.30 in the afternoon. 
 
 The MLA expressed the need for conserving water bodies in the green district which is facing encroachment threats, in the form of weeds and silt. “This small tank in my assembly segment which sprawls on for about half-an-acre and rain is the only source of water,” he said.
 
 Members of youth groups such as   (protectors of nature) from Kothiyodu, Iyarkayodu Oru Payanam (nature is a journey) from   and   from   and a few locals joined hands with the MLA in the cleaning drive. This act of Mano Thangaraj was widely appreciated by the public. 
 
 “It is the duty of people of the locality to protect their water bodies from encroachment, dumping garbage and letting drainage into it. People should step up and clean water bodies in their area. Drainage did not flow into Adayamadai tank, but it was filled with weeds as it was not used and was exposed to the sun,” he said.
 
 Mano Thangaraj said that he plans to actively take part in such cleaning drives when he is in town. Pratheesh, leader of Iyarkayodu Oru Payanam said that people will stop polluting rivers, streams and tanks when they start using it. “Only when we don’t use them we ignore the water body and start dumping garbage in it,” he added. 
 
 D Anshio of Heaven Foundation also said that weeds will not grow in clean tanks that are regularly used by people, as disturbed water makes it non-conducive for weeds to grow. In the coming weeks, the MLA and the volunteers plan to clean a tank in Thenkarai panchayat near Thuckalay and make it a model pond. 
 
 
