It was an eventful April for National Award-winning cinematographer   S, whose films Mercury and Bharat Ane Nenu released back-to-back and fetched him appreciation for his work. In an interview with us, Tirru (as he is called in the industry), talks about the challenges shooting a silent thriller like Mercury, why the Telugu film industry might be the next big thing, and hopping on board   Subbaraj’s next with  . Excerpts:

 
 
 All of Karthik Subbaraj’s films have been in different genres so far, so I did expect that he will be pitching something different from what he has been doing. He told me it was an out-of-thebox script and that’s why he thought of approaching me. He told me that the four protagonists were hearing and speech impaired, while the antagonist is visually challenged! The concept itself was very unique, and once he told me the conflict, I was even more interested. And finally, he told me that only the presentation can hold the film because it will have no dialogues! I liked the fact that he did not set out to do a silent film for the sake of it. He had a premise that naturally lent itself to such a treatment. The setting of the story was also unique to me. We had only a month for pre-production work. And we finished shooting the film in 35 days. The actors were very professional. And Prabhudheva was quite excited to be part of the project. 
 
  
 
 When there are dialogues, you can convey the essence of the scene or the thoughts of the character through the lines, and turn things melodramatic as well. But with a dialogue-less film, you can create a rhythm with music, but have to convey the dialogue between the characters through visuals alone. Take the scene where the youngsters stand on the edge of the cliff on that fateful night. Only the previous night, the audience would have seen them all happy, with the proposal scene, and now, their lives have turned upside down. So, we tried an upside down camera movement to show this. Like this, we tried to communicate everything through the camera. We also chose an unusual, grungy tone. When the characters are inside the factory, you will feel claustrophobic yourself. We wanted the audience to feel like they were trapped themselves and had to somehow get out of the place. Poison is always indicated through the colour green — a peacock greenish colour to be precise — and we used that tone to symbolise the toxic nature of the place. We put all such elements to full use. Even though it was meant to be a quick shoot, the challenges were quite a lot. Even with lensing, you can observe the camera travelling very closely with the actors to give audiences the feel of being right next to them. I actually wanted to make the film in 3D, as it would have enhanced the experience, but unfortunately, we realised that opting for 3D would inflate the budget and also delay the shoot as you need to import the rigs and employ qualified stereographers, and so on.
 
 
 
 During pre-production, you can only be prepared with the peripheral requirements. Even if you do good homework, the detailing can be worked out only when you are on location as the place will give you a lot of ideas. And there might also be instances where you might have planned something, but realise they cannot be done on location. So, I go there a day prior to the shoot, as the art director would have, by then, done his work. I discuss with the director on the movement of the actors and then we decide on the shot divisions.
 
 
 
 This generation of filmmakers are taking on challenges without any fear. Ilankandru bayam ariyadhu. If they think something is not possible, they try to make it possible. Karthik Subbaraj functions this way. Even with Mercury, he knew the material was going to be difficult, and very new for him, but he took it up as a challenge. That said, when you talk about filmmaking in terms of visuals, India and Hollywood are on different paths. We come up with the story and characters and then go straight for pre-production. There, they analyse the story, exploring if the plot is pushed forward by the writer or by the characters and so on. We are quite primitive in this aspect. Filmmaking may be art, writing may be art, but they also look at these two as science. They have a set of people to just imagine what could be the best way to tell a story and they are told not to worry about whether something is possible or not in the execution stage.
 
 It is the job of the people who are executing to ensure that their thoughts become possible. Here, it is often the same person who is both thinking and executing a script. So, even when they are thinking of some idea, they will also think how difficult something might be while executing it and might compromise. Filmmaking is still not science in our country.
 
 
 
 Every set of people has its own lifestyles. There, they expect films to be more emotional. Tamil and Malayalam industries make a few experimental films, which you will not see there. They expect films from the heart. So, that difference will be there in the filmmaking, too. They have always liked their films to be colourful, though Telugu cinema has grown a lot now. Take Bharat   for instance. It’s about an ordinary man who becomes a chief minister and tries to do his job without any fuss. Even though there is scope to be loud, the film has a lot of subtle emotions, a subtle speech, and establishes a subtle emotional relationship with the audience throughout. A lot of youngsters have come into filmmaking there. Writers are turning directors. Nobody interferes in your work. They just want to do a perfect job. They are trying to learn and come up with new ideas. The Telugu industry is going to rule the next era. Telugu films are already doing well in the north. Their Hindi satellite rights are selling for a price that is the budget of most Tamil films. It is also healthier there. They respect technicians. Actors are involving themselves in production, taking less money and helping filmmakers spend more money on the project.
 
 
 
 If a cinematographer wins an Oscar, he gets recognition throughout the world, but here, I don’t think many people even know that I have won the National Award. We are still on a survival mode. Even most of our films are made to enable our survival. Only few films like 24, Kanchivaram, and Hey Ram, tend to set aside the survival aspect and stay true to the filmmaker’s dream. I’m very lucky I got to work on such films. Even Aalavandhan was not started with success and failure in mind. So, you can’t expect recognition after winning an award here. And that’s not wrong because we are living in such circumstances.
 
 
 
 Yes, I’m part of Sangamitra. I did the test shoot some time ago. It is not a small project, on which you can take a call in one month. It will take a year to settle down on many things, like technical and financial issues. At the same time, a lot of preproduction work is going on, so it may happen next year.
 
 
 
 I am doing Rajini sir’s film with Karthik Subbaraj next. We have not discussed the story or treatment, yet. It is a great opportunity for me. I did get a chance to be part of Endhiran, but unfortunately, I couldn’t take it up then. So, I’m really happy I’ll be working with Rajini sir finally, and with Karthik again after Mercury. 
 
