BHOPAL: Around one colony in each of the 85 wards and main roads in the state capital are fitted with energy efficient   (light-emitting diodes) streetlights. However, the luminance of these lights is quite poor when compared to conventional streetlights. Since the distance between streetlights remains the same, it has led to several ‘dark’ patches along many city roads.

 The   budget of 2015-16 had a provision Rs 17.80 crore for the installation of LED streetlights in the city. Streetlights in markets, colonies and lanes of the state capital were to be replaced with the modern LED lights.
 
 
 Now, 4,000 sodium vapour lights that made for safer roads have been replaced with LED lights in the 85 wards across the city. Over the last two years, the replacement of sodium lights with LED, has been no less controversial. “The complaints committee of the   has internally admitted that there are issues with LED lights. It is one of the reasons why LED streetlights have been included in the smart city project. There is a stark difference in LED lights being installed under the smart city project and those tendered by BMC engineering section,” said a senior civic body official. When contacted, BMC city engineer   did not respond.
 
 Some of these LED lights were placed merely for facilitating advertisements. BMC charged about Rs 670 per sq ft or a minimum of Rs 21,440 per year, for selling out ad space on these streetlight poles. Along   and the other arterial roads, there have been numerous instances where streetlights are seldom not turned on. However, the advertisement space is forever glowing. “Advertisement space on traffic signals is yet another example of BMC renting out space and public interest goes to the backburner,” said Satish Shinde, a retired government servant.
 
 60% of the LED lights are 250W and 40% are 150W. The total number of poles for housing these LED lights are 10,000. The LED lights were purchased from reputed original equipment manufacturer (OEMs) as per city lighting master plan.
 
