PUNE: Throwing caution to the wind, the public works department ( ) has started repair works on the pothole-riddled road in the   ghat section without affixing safety nets on the hills in the area.

 The purpose of the safety mesh is to arrest boulders that come loose and roll off the hill. “The proposal for installing iron mesh on the hill section along the ghat has not moved forward. A preliminary survey of the vulnerable spots here has been done, following which it was proposed that safety mesh be installed at some patches. However, it requires sanction of the state government,” PWD officials said.
 
 The work would also need allotment of funds from the government or through the funds of the district planning and development council, they added. 
 
 On the ongoing works, the officials said, “Major works were proposed near both sides of the tunnel and at the portion towards Katraj in about 2km stretch. The works include repairs of rough surface, filling of potholes, tarring and strengthening of the road. There is no plan to take up repairs in the tunnel.”
 
 
 
 
 To facilitate the repair works, one-way traffic has been implemented in the ghat section till the end of this month. “The road can now be utilized only by vehicles travelling from Pune towards  ,” the officials said, adding that the vehicles on the return journey are expected to use the new Katraj tunnel on the bypass to enter the city.
 
 The officials said the proposal to divert traffic was tabled before the district collector a few days back. “The traffic was diverted after the collector’s approval,” they added.
 
 Hundreds of vehicles, including   and   buses, goods and private vehicles, travel through this road every day. However, due to the poor condition of the road, drivers have to grapple with huge potholes and the roughened surface during their commute. The poor condition of the road has also been one of the reasons for slowing down vehicular movement here.
 
 Regular travelers said private vehicles using the road in the ghat section have gone up significantly as new residential areas have developed here. “Many hotels, eateries and storage godowns cropped up on the stretch till Jambhulwadi,” they said.
 
 Vijay Jadhav, a regular traveler to  , said a 1.5km stretch at the beginning of the ghat is the worst. “Huge potholes had come up here during the monsoon. It is a risky ride for bikers who pass through the ghat. The tunnel is narrow with poor lighting. This only adds to the woes,” he said.
 
  
 
