When Hari Shanker, a software engineer, and Archana, a freelance make-up artiste, made public their decision to go childless, their families were flabbergasted. But the bigger shock came three years into their marriage, when the couple, who live in Kakkanad, went ahead and adopted two kittens, who are now their ‘children’. “It was a carefully thought out decision for us not to have children. Since we are not planning to have kids, why not get pets, we thought. The decision to get Persian cats was also made after long deliberation, considering the size of our apartment and the temperament of the different breeds,” says Hari. And that was how Ikru, a white and grey Persian, entered their lives, in October 2017. “In the shop, Ikru was found curled up with another black and white kitten. But since we had decided to take only one, we took just him. But then Ikru was a bit lonely, and on a whim, we went back to the shop to see if the other kitten was still there. All but him had been sold! We immediately brought him too home, that was Boo.”
 
  
 The two are constantly playing, and are very much attached to their parents but have their preferences, apparently. While Boo loves to cuddle upto Archana all the time and purr, Ikroo’s favourite sleeping place is on Hari’s legs, even as he works on his laptop. Their only worry now is that they are not able to take along the kittens during their travels. Hari’s job involves travelling abroad many months of the year, and he takes Archana along as well. “As of now, we put them up in boarding but we are researching on options to take them along.”
 
 They do everything possible to keep their furry kids safe and healthy, including regular visits to the vet. “I wouldn’t say they have completed us as we were already complete. They have filled our lives with happiness,” says Archana. “People call us crazy. For them, they’re just cats, animals. But we actually prefer them to kids. We have friends abroad who don’t find it all that crazy. There are plenty of couples in the West who opt to be childless for 10-15 years or for good, and have pets instead. I’m not saying I’m aping them, but it’s an inspiration and comfort when people alienate us,” says Archana. It's also because people aren't familiar with having pets at home, or haven't known their love, she says. “I always had cats at home but they were new to Hari as his family are not pet lovers. I was a bit apprehensive how he would accept them but today, he loves and takes care of them much more than me,” she says.
  
  
 At the same time, most of us in our State believe that the planet belongs to human beings, and that all else are encroachers, according to her. “There is also a fixed belief that studying certain subjects, getting married to certain kind of people and having kids is the ‘right’ thing to do, and the only way of life. I have no such notions. The kittens don’t expect anything in return for the kind of love they give us, and nothing makes us happier.”
 
 
