MUMBAI: The nocturnal stray dogs of Aarey Colony know them as flashes of a blue light. Rickshaw drivers can never tell if they are firemen or cops. Distressed slum dwellers who phone them grow even more distressed on seeing their flashy white Royal Enfield Thunderbirds. “How will you take the patient on this?” some ask.

 
 “Relax. I'm a doctor and I’m here to provide first aid before the ambulance arrives,” is a disclaimer that the 28 medicos of the state’s free Bike Emergency Medical First Responders service in Mumbai—are now used to dishing out in introductions.
 
  
  
 
 These doctors have attended to a wide range of emergencies, from a toddler having swallowed a two-rupee coin to an elderly having collapsed after a paralytic attack. Recently, when Dr  , a team member, rushed to a shanty in Malad’s Pathanwadi, he dug out a pair of surgical scissors from his kit and cut the umbilical cord of a woman bleeding heavily after a premature delivery and refused an offer for “chai-paani”. When the grateful family asked for his phone number, he said: “Just dial 108.” For, the service is a pilot project of   (MEMS), which runs the 108 ambulance service, to provide first-aid faster in the traffic-worn Mumbai. On getting a call on 108, the control room dispatches the nearest bike and a four-wheeler ambulance.
 
 The bikes beat the ambulance by 20 to 30 minutes. The headstart allows for the patient’s vitals to be checked and initial treatment— like cutting umbilical cords and administering IV drips. The bikes have boxes that contain a trauma kit comprising bandages, antiseptic sprays and air splints to stabilize fractures; a medical kit to take care of strokes, heart attacks and asthma; an airway kit for respiratory emergencies and a delivery kit.
 
 in Bhandup, Mankhurd, Dharavi, Nagpada, Malad, Charkop, Goregoan, Thakur Village, Kalina and Khar Danda— have rushed to over a 1000 medical emergencies, nearly 200 accident spots and close to 30 pregnant women. The bikes now attend to an average of 30 calls a day—enough to recently induce the state think of introducing a similar service in remote rural and tribal areas.
 
 Asimilar service also exists in Bengaluru where 20 bike ambulances are operated by the state government. In Punjab's Panchkula district, a bike ambulance with a side-car stretcher was launched last year to assist anganwadi workers in vaccination in remote areas, while in Dhalabari village of  's Jalpaiguri, 50-year-old   is known as ‘Bike ambulance dada’ for his one-man hospital ferrying service.
 
 In Mumbai, emergencies could run the gamut and most calls come from slums. “The slum-dwellers are willing to wait for the ambulance (unlike others who prefer private service and hospital),” says Dr Ashish Yadav, district manager, MEMS. But locating shanties also means finding landmarks ranging from paan stalls to dairies: Dr Ahmed has not only cleared water drums off narrow streets to make room for stretchers but also ferried patients down the stairs on a chair.
 
 “Our first aid is both medical and psychological,” says Dr Ahmed. For instance, when he was sent to Goregaon’s Peru Baug following a call that a tribal man had immolated himself following a family feud, he had to walk up a hill. “We even crossed a river and a board that warned us of wild animals ahead,” says  , who on reaching the spot, saw half the house burning. The man's wife and children were inside. After convincing the man to let him help, Ahmed enlisted his family's help to take him on a stretcher down the hill.
 
 While over-eager mobs make the job difficult during day, the night brings its own problems. Dr Shivaji Patil, who attends to cases between 11 pm and 7 am daily in Aarey Colony and Film City, says locating houses in desolate areas becomes tough at night. Once, while waiting for the ambulance which had lost its way, Patil had to carry an ill student to the main road at Aarey Colony on a stretcher on a cold December night.
 
 However, for some reason, the free service has still remained relatively low-key, evident from the fact that people still ask them about charges. But a tiny development has convinced Yadav that awareness is rising. “The dogs seem to have stopped chasing the bikes now,” says Yadav. “So maybe even they are aware.”
 
