  : To combat malnutrition on a war footing,   district in the last five months reversed the disorder in 5,500 out of 47,769 malnourished children in the region. 

 Under the campaign 'Sawarta Bachpan', the district administration involved gram panchayat, self-help groups, and teams of 'Suposhan Mitras' to ensure that supplementary nutrition for reaches the children. Suposhan Mitras are volunteers at aanganwadi centres.
 
 A 2018 NITI Aayog report had ranked Rajnandgaon as an 'aspirational districts' out of 101 in the country where the rate of   is the highest.
 
 Concerned with the high number of malnourished children in the district, the collector - Bheem Singh - stepped up the efforts to treat and prevent the disorder.
 
 Sawarta Bachpan was officially launched on Women's Day this year - March 8 - however, the teams had already started the campaign at the ground level.
 
 The chief minister's fellow   told TOI that pregnant women and children in remote areas suffer from undernourishment as they lack awareness. To tackle the problem, the administration approached gram panchayats to take responsibility of their area encouraging community participation.
 
 "  have been asked to provide the identified children with milk and fruits on a regular basis. Children get hot meals in morning and afternoon for supplementary nutrition. The gram panchayat uses its own funds to provide the meals. An Amrut Milk scheme is also underway, that provides milk once a week, but it did not seem to be sufficient for the affected children," she said. As an incentive, it was announced that those village heads that succeed in making their village malnourishment free will be given the chief minister's appreciation certificate and reward of Rs 50,000. In addition to this, regular monitoring is underway at all levels, said officials.
 
 To reach out to NGOs, civil societies, self-help groups, an initiative 'Adopt the Aanganwadi' was launched by the administration. Under this, anyone can help the administration with "cash and kindness" - by either adopting a child for nutrition, offering services, utensils, food or any other item.
 
 The administration is also taking steps to spread awareness on the ills of malnourishment. An army of Suposhan Mitra regularly visit mothers to counsel them about balance diets and nutrition.
 
 With the help of health department, the district administration keeps track of women as soon as they conceive. "The first 1,000 days of a child's development are most crucial. The teams track them from the very first day to prevent any form of undernourishment," said officials. These steps have helped over 5,500 children to come out of malnourishment. 31,858 malnourished children were adopted by 2,297 self-help groups and Suposhan Mitra, said officials. In addition, 2,442 gram panchayats have started providing nutrition al supplements to children while local trusts and NGOs have adopted 26 aanganwadi centres till now, officials added. 
 
 
