NAGPUR: The Nagpur University (NU) has named non-PhD holders and inexperienced teachers to a   (RRC) to inspect Yashwantrao Chavan College of Engineering (YCCE) on January 6.

 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is chairman of RRC and heads college section, didn’t answer TOI’s calls.
 
 The committee led by VNIT’s AM Kutte has been tasked with inspecting YCCE to recommend its ‘place of research’ status. Kutte too didn’t answer TOI’s calls.
 
 On December 12, TOI had highlighted how the Yeole-led section had named a non-PhD holder to another important body, the   (LEC), to inspect an engineering college.
 
 Besides Kutte, UD Gulhane of Sevagram’s Bapurao Deshmukh College of Engineering, Ajay Kolhe of KITS Ramtek, DM Adhane, and Hema Kale (TOI couldn’t confirm their employers) are experienced and holds PhD degrees.
 
 However, other members, including IC Mehta of Manoharbhai Patel Institute of Engineering & Technology, Gondia, Nitin Janwe and PS Kulkarni, both working at Chandrapur’s   College of Engineering, and VV Chakole of KDK College of Engineering, Nandanvan, do not hold a PhD degree and yet have been named in the committee.
 
 Some of them said they had registered to pursue PhD but hadn’t completed the degree. “The college section may not have updated our qualification details,” one of them said.
 
 The unqualified members said they have decided to back out after realizing that they lacked the requisite qualifications. Asked when they took this decision, they said on Tuesday one of the members called up the panel chairman to say that they can’t be part of the team. However, the members had been issued the inspection letter around 15 days back.
 
 An official from the college section defended the appointments, saying PhD is a desirable qualification and not a must for those part of the committee. “It must have skipped our attention. The panel is huge, with 15 members, and subject experts. So there won’t be any problem,” the official said.
 
 He admitted that such mistakes must not happen but the section relies on members ‘to point out mistakes’.
 
 Sources said the unqualified members belong to Shikshan Manch, and their names were included at the behest of a senior NU administrator. “On the one hand, the administrator is making PhD tougher in the name of reforms, and on the other hand appointing unqualified members to important bodies. He continues to take such decisions despite the HC passing strictures against him in a recent case,” they said.
 
 
