GURUGRAM: Nearly 20 days after the wildlife department and animal activists raised an alarm about animal traps being found in the Aravalis, an   was registered on Friday in   police station against unknown people who installed animal traps in the forest area. 

 The wildlife department had on December 10 recovered several animal traps from the forest that were installed to trap jackals, porcupines, hares and leopards. A complaint was filed in this regard by wildlife inspector  , but no action was taken. Following this, a rescue team from the wildlife department managed to click photographs of two poachers and handed them over to police, but the cops allegedly freed the accused after giving them a warning. 
 
 However, an FIR under sections 9, 39 and 51 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 was finally registered on Friday, after a lot of pressure from the wildlife department, animal activists and reports published in TOI on regular seizures of traps. 
 
 “We are glad police finally registered an FIR in the matter. Our team is regularly inspecting the area, especially at night. We will continue to take strict action against those who try to harm the wildlife of the Aravalis,” said Shyam Sunder, district forest officer (wildlife), Gurgaon. 
 
 “We spotted two poachers in the area, but they managed to run away. As an FIR has been registered, we expect cops to take appropriate action in the case. As the area has good population of jackal and hare, it is quite possible that the poachers are after their meat. We will help the police nab the offenders,” said an official of the forest department. 
 
 On December 28 and 29, TOI had reported that the animal activists had upped their patrolling in the forest, after two peacocks were killed and several animal traps were found in the area. “Protection of wildlife is extremely important for the protection of the Aravalis. The FIR is just a first step. We demand strict action against the poachers and deployment of a special task force in the Aravalis to prevent any kind of poaching, trapping and encroachment,” said  , who met Union environment minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and had earlier also written to chief minister   seeking their intervention for wildlife protection. 
 
 
