CHANDIGARH: A circular road in   C which is the primary route between   and S D Sharma Secondary School has become a menace for vehicles to drive on due to the presence of plastic center verge road   between circular ends.

 The plastic road dividers, which are affixed haphazardly on the turn which starts before the housing board flats on one end followed by a second set, installed at about the main gate of the school have been the reason of various accidents.
 
 Moreover, there are six dividers on one side near the residential area and three on the other beside the school which further circumscribes the space on the road which is already narrow.
 
 Moreover, the dividers during turn have become an unanticipated roadblock for an approaching vehicle which often bangs into it or escapes narrowly. “These dividers have been installed in last few years and were not here earlier. They have been placed wrongly and if a person approaching from the main entrance of Sector 24 is driving in moderate speed takes a right turn will not have faintest of chance to apply brakes in time and will surely have a collision with them,” said Dalbir Sekhon, a passerby.
 
 “The dividers are placed at an awkward point. They fall right in the path of a turning car. This is dangerous and inconvenient for a driver. Several accidents have occurred here especially during the night when drivers cannot see the dividers due to darkness,” said Sunil Mehta, a resident.
 
 The dividers installed just outside school's main gate were damaged from various places. The fourth pylon was smashed by a car while taking a turn from the same point a few months ago. “The car drivers need time to react in case they take a turn around this abnormal divider. An accident is inevitable here. However, these are still better than concrete dividers that will be of greater damage to the vehicles,” added Sekhon.
 
 A number of residents admitted that such dividers are meant for wider roads, where high density traffic is expected. “The presence of these have further narrowed down the driving space from the road,” added another resident.
 
 However, a couple of residents offered contrary views citing them ‘necessary’ due to a school nearby. “My house is right before the road and these dividers help to keep a check on the speed of the vehicles. Hence, these are vital,” said Garima Sharma, a resident.
 
 
