PANAJI: Unprecedented showers accompanied by gusty winds resulted in a loss of Rs 80 lakh to the electricity department where strong winds caused damage to a transformer at Mapusa as well as high tension and low tension poles, cables, insulators and conductors. Major damage was caused in  , Pernem and Tiswadi. The department is replacing the transformer at Mapusa.

 “It was a high intensity storm and it was totally unexpected. We are in fact lucky. The damage could have been much worse,” public relations officer and executive engineer C H Rajagopalan told TOI. “The department also had to engage additional contractors and labour to fix poles and pull wires, while our staff was busy restoring power supply,” he added.
 
 In South Goa, the interstate supply from Karnataka was naturalized only after 6pm on Thursday after which power supply was restored. Every substation along the coastal belt immediately swung into action and began re-stringing wires.   superintending engineer of the electricity department Reshma Mathews said that conductors of low tension cables snapped where feeders also tripped due to lightning.
 
 It was mostly the overhead lines that were affected where areas like Panaji that has underground cabling didn’t experience many problems. The department last month had begun its pre-monsoon maintenance work of pruning trees, restringing loose lines and topping of oil at transformers.
 
 Residents of Sanguem and Sakhali endured a 12-14 hour wait for power to be restored with water supply also affected. Similar was the case in Bicholim where strong winds also blew asbestos sheet roofing of a number of houses. Mayem, Mulgao, Kasarpal and   also suffered power outage, while electricity was restored at   and Colvale only by noon on Thursday. Parts of Socorro and Pilerne in Bardez were left in darkness till late Thursday evening.
 
 In Gogol, Margao, power was restored after two hours but fluctuations continued throughout the day, leaving people without broadband connectivity too. In a number of instances, the public, instead of depending on government machinery, moved trees that were blocking roads.
 
 The department’s helpline callcentre was also flooded with calls from across the state with many people failing to get through to register their complaints.
 
 (With inputs from Rajesh Chodankar, Nisser Dias and Denver D’Souza)
 
 
