HYDERABAD: A month after chugging into the city amidst much fanfare and ferrying over 30 lakh passengers, the Hyderabad   rail suffered its first major technical glitch on Sunday. An electrical circuit malfunction in the front coach occurred between 8:45-9am on Sunday on a Metro service on the Ameerpet-Nagole section, halting serviceson the routefor nearly two hours. The affected ‘electrical circuit’ controls the movement of the front coach of the Metro.

 While authorities swung into action almost immediately, the affected train, which was near Ameerpet, was taken to the pocket track between Begumpet and Prakash Nagar stations. “The Metro train was parked on the pocket track to give way to other services from both directions. Metro movement was temporarily halted between Ameerpet and Mettuguda, line was cleared for safety reasons and tracks were thoroughly checked as a precautionary measure. All train movements were restored within two hours from both directions,”   (HMRL) managing director,  , said.
 
  
  
 
 After the malfunction, a high-level meeting was held and itwas decidedthat ‘maintenance gangs’ would be stationed at Metro stations for quick response. Such malfunctions, however, were a part and parcel of the electromechanical system in the Metro rail, the official said. “This happens in all   despite maintenance and checks. We have now decided to place maintenance gangs and orders have already been given to the L&T. By having maintenance gangs at stations, it will be possible to reachthelocation within minutes and rectify the glitch. In case they are not able to rectify the glitch, they will move the train to a nearby station and minimise response time,” Reddy added.
 
 Although problems might occur in future too, he said once the Ameerpet-Nagole route becomes completely automated, the chances of glitches might come down. The route has already been experiencing some delays due to pending automation with the communication-based train control ( ) technology. “Since the full system has not become automated, it took some time for response. Once the track is automated, another train can be dispatched immediately by the system,” the official explained.
 
 Meanwhile, once the glitch was rectified, Metro services resumed in both directions from Ameerpet and would be running late into the night (up to 2.30am on account of New Year Eve) as announced by the authorities.
 
