PATNA: A division bench of the Patna high court on Tuesday upheld the single bench order to the CBI to investigate into the allegations against a fake institution named Medical Council of Patent Medicine of Bhojpur. It is alleged that the institution has been running parallel to the Medical Council of India (MCI) and granting fake degrees to students to become doctors and affiliation to medical colleges across India for the last several years.

 The division bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay dismissed the CBI appeal against the order by the single bench of Justice Ahsanuddin Amanullah. The CBI had expressed it inability to investigate the matter. 
 
 Justice Amanullah had ordered a CBI probe against the Bhojpur body, given the nationwide ramification of granting of fake affiliation to medical colleges and even granting of degrees for becoming a doctor. The court had observed that the Ara-based council was a parallel system running and flourishing with impunity in violation of the provisions of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, Indian Medicine Central Council Act, Homoeopathy Central Council Act, 1973 and Indian Medical Degree Act, 1916.
 
 It was brought to the knowledge of the court that more than 812 degrees in various fields of medicine had already been granted by the Ara-based council to students across the country to practise medicine and grant fitness certificate to common man. All these degrees have no legal sanctity.
 
 Additional solicitor general SD Sanjay and Rajesh Kumar Verma appeared for the Union of India while Sanjay Kumar appeared on behalf of the CBI.
 
 The CBI probe was recommended by a high-level committee headed by secretaries of Union ministry of health and family welfare, ministry of Ayush and three senior state government officials. It had also ordered the council to immediately stop functioning with an advisory to all state governments for action against such councils or institutes. The committee was set up on the high court’s order after a state-level inquiry.
 
 The issue was highlighted after Umesh Chand and Arun Kumar of Faridabad in Haryana moved the Patna high court on April 11, 2014, seeking relief that they must be allowed to practise without any interference from the police which were not allowing them to practise. The two told the court that they were granted degree in Bachelor of Allopathic Patent Medical Specialties (BAMS) by a private college affiliated by the Medical Council of Patent Medicine in Ara.
 
 However, during the course of hearing, foul play was suspected and the single bench on February 6 last year had ordered the probe.
 
 IG (ATS) and director (health services) submitted their inquiry report on June 7 last year clarifying that the council was a parallel system running with impunity and imparting education in medicine, indigenous medicine and even affiliation to institutions for running courses. A single bench is still hearing the case.
 
 
