MUMBAI: Monsoon is four months away and like every year, the   is running out of time. The   has 463 major road   to complete before the rains arrive. An official said they intend to complete 400 repair works before monsoon and the rest later. 

 Year after year, the BMC has been drawing flak for pothole-riddled   during monsoon. This year, besides the 400 major road repairs, the BMC also aims to finish resurfacing of 116 roads.
 
 Major repairs fall under the ‘project’ category wherein the entire road is fixed while resurfacing, which falls under the ‘priority’ category, only the bad patches are taken care of. 
 
  
 A civic official said roads where major repairs are under way include SV Road (Bandra to Andheri), Andheri Ghatkopar Link Road, LBS road, PJ Ramchandani Road in Colaba and the stretch near Kalaghoda junction.
 
 Vinod Chitore, director of engineering services department and chief engineer of roads, said, “Out of the 400, we have already completed work at 134 roads and 20 junctions. From April, preventive road repair works would also be undertaken at ward levels.” 
 
 Bandra corporator Asif Zakeria said road repairs in his ward was moving at a slow pace. “For instance, work near St Andrew’s Road has just started while that at D’Monte Park Road, Kadeshwari Road and Rebello Road has not yet begun. The National library Road was dug up only recently on January 25 and work on a part of SV Road in Bandra is moving very slowly,” said Zakeria. 
 
 Shiv Sena corporator Sujata Sanap from Fort, which has several VIP roads, said, “With only three-to-four months to go, the civic body is likely to do a shoddy job. Citizens will pull up corporators, and blame us.” 
 
 This week, a proposal to upgrade the civic asphalt plant at Worli will be tabled before the municipal commissioner for a sanction. The BMC wants to produce locally pothole-filing mixtures that it had procured from Israel and Austria last June. The 38 tonnes of pothole-filling mixture which was procured at a cost of Rs 70 lakh, was used to fix potholes even when it was pouring. 
 
 
