MUMBAI: Ten years after the technical committee of the  , under the chairmanship of former batting legend  , first took a call to introduce the Jayadevan System (  method) in all domestic tournaments but the Indian Premier League (IPL) continues to use the   (DL) Method season after season.

 
 
 
 It was the BCCI technical committee’s call, under Gavaskar, to use the VJD Method to calculate target scores in all one-day and T20 tournaments played in the Indian domestic circuit, a decision seconded by the rest of the members in the committee. However, as most things usually stand unexplained in the Indian cricket fraternity, the BCCI has steadfastly refused to apply the same in the IPL under its stated logic that T20 league involves a lot of overseas cricketers and DL is a method popular overseas.
 
 What BCCI refuses to take into account though is that like the Deodhar Trophy (50-over tournament) and the   (T20 tournament), the IPL too is registered as an Indian domestic tournament. The cricket fraternity refuses to understand the logic in BCCI opting for an internationally adopted system for just one Indian domestic tournament while using the home-grown system for all other domestic tournaments. No technical reason has been given for the preference till date for such a decision.
 
 Jayadevan has been doing his own calculations during the IPL matches and has been coming to the conclusion time and again that his method is certainly superior to that of DL. “The target in the   vs   match according to the VJD method was 146 and according to the   method was 151,” he says.
 
 Chasing in that match, Royals lost by four runs.
 
 For a cricket board that’s been so consumed with the idea of conflict in Indian cricket, the urge to ignore ex-India cricketers in the IPL because of their multiple interests at the cost of inviting overseas professionals doing the same thing has been a logic bordering on the absurd.
 
 “On the same lines, BCCI’s decision to ignore a home-grown system that is understood by India’s domestic cricketers for an international system, just because a handful of overseas players understand it is an absurd one too,” say those unable to figure BCCI’s ways of functioning.
 
 “The only logic given was that overseas players were accustomed to the DL Method and therefore it was preferred over VJD, which is a joke,” says an individual in the know of things. This was, in fact, the reason conveyed by one of the IPL governing council to V Jayadevan, the founder of this method.
 
 
 VJD Method, devised by a retired civil engineer hailing from Thrissur in Kerala, works on the basic principle that it does not assume that every next over is more productive than the preceding one and works on the same logic also for the number of wickets lost. This basic math is in direct contrast to the DL calculation that works on the concept that a resource consumed and a resource waiting to be consumed is equal to the total resource that is available.
 
