VADODARA: A day after   government announced the list of ten government nominated senate members, hectic parleys have begun for election for the 14 seats of M S University’s new syndicate body. 

 The university has issued notification for election of the 14 elected representatives. Elections for these seats will be held on February 27 between 1pm and 3pm while counting of votes will be held from 3.30pm onwards. 
 
 The last date of receiving nomination is February 19 till 4pm after which the nominations received by the university will be scrutinised at 5pm. The nominations can be withdrawn an hour before the voting for which a letter has to be submitted to the registrar. 
 
 The university will issue notice with the list of nominations that it receives in different categories on February 22 - four working days ahead of the polling day. 
 
 The 14 seats for which the elections will be held include two seats of deans of faculties, one principal of colleges, six persons who are neither teachers nor employees nor students of the university and five teachers (including one professor and four teachers other than deans, heads of department and principals of colleges). 
 
 Earlier on Wednesday, professor  , head of Department of Mathematics, had got elected uncontested on the one seat representing the head of departments (HoDs) constituency as no other HoD had filed nomination papers. 
 
 But as the countdown for the rest of the seats have begun while the ruling saffron group is claiming that a majority of candidates supported by it will win the polls uncontested, the members of the ‘sankalan samiti’ which comprises of members from the BJP, the RSS, the student outfit – the   and the teacher’s outfit - Maharaja Sayajirao Vishvavidyalay Shaikshik Sangh said it has decided to put up its panel of candidates. 
 
 According to members of the samiti, which has claimed an upper-hand in the list of government nominees announced on Thursday, it will field its candidates on all the 14 seats. 
 
 
