
 When you have   and   speaking about women and entrepreneurship, you can expect some witty one-liners and blunt exchange of opinions. So when these two women, who were representing Bollywood on a panel that had women entrepreneurs, authors, scientists and doctors from across the country, started speaking about self-censorship that women impose and defining moments of their lives, they received huge cheers from the audience. Twinkle and Ekta were among nine women who received Icon Awards at FICCI Ladies Organisation’s (FLO) 34th annual session on the theme ‘Women Transforming India’ at Vigyan Bhawan, where President   was the chief guest. The formal opening of the event and award ceremony was followed by a brief discussion among the award winners.
 
  
  President Ram Nath Kovind, who was the chief guest 
 
 
 
 Twinkle is known for saying things with a pinch of salt. The author and producer said that she has never held herself back from voicing her opinions because of trolls. She added, “When I was growing up, I was known as a tomboy. It was much later that I realized that I have an androgynous mind. Now, what it means is that I don’t look at myself particularly as a woman. I don’t have a place in the society as a woman, but as a human being. So, I am not interested in appeasing anyone. It is a short life and I want to thoroughly entertain myself. I like jokes, I make fun of everything, whether it is politics or any other topic.”
 Do trolls hold her back from saying what she really wants to say? “It is not just social media. In the times we live in, there is pressure from everywhere, from every field. Sometimes, I do feel that ‘Oh my god, am I on the right path?’ but my mother has always told me that the reason why I am always spraining my leg is not because I have weak ligaments, but because I am always twisting my foot and putting it into my mouth,” she said. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Ekta, who is often called a gamechanger in the world of Indian television, surprised many when she said that despite her career achievements, one thing that she is always asked is when will she settle down. “I want to answer, how much more do I need to settle down? I really don’t think I need to settle down any more. I pretty much settled couple of my generations. I don’t know why marriage is referred to as ‘settling down’,” said Ekta. 
 Talking about the difference between her TV shows and films, Ekta said, “My journey has been quite a paradox. I make movies that deal with sex and TV shows that deal with very conservative families. I think that they are two sides of the same coin. I deal with everything with a pinch of salt, but if you look at them myopically, on the surface you see them as extremely conservative stories. I think, a lot of women expect me to control (what I show in films) because I do a lot of conservative TV shows. I remember, one woman said to me ‘Aaj kal ki ladkiyan toh bas sex ke baare mein sochti hain’, and I replied, ‘Aur karti bhi hain, it’s a part of life.’ I started doing family shows when I was 24, and I made Lipstick Under My Burkha at 42. So, I actually have done more conservative stuff at a younger age. I don’t want to be put in a box. I think the first thing we all should realise is that we need to get out of our boxes,” said Ekta.
 
  
  
  
  All things elegant!
 
  
  The confident gait!
 
  
   , Scientist and project director for Agni-IV missile at DRDO
  
  
 
 
