GURUGRAM: The traffic   trial on the expressway at Sirhaul is set to continue, after NHAI reversed its decision to go back to the old system on Sunday morning. 

 The agency had earlier communicated to traffic officials that despite repeated instructions, “SDMC instructor is still collecting toll beyond the six lanes earmarked for SDMC, thereby causing inconvenience to traffic”.
 
 The message, citing a Delhi high court order, said NHAI will withdraw its permission, as toll is being collected from more than the prescribed number of lanes. It instructed police to restore the previous arrangement. A discussion between traffic police and NHAI officials on Sunday morning followed, in which it was decided to continue with the trial. Traffic officials are reported to have told NHAI the trial had been fairly successful, having managed to bring down jams on the stretch, which, apart from being a high volume traffic site, is also an accident-prone zone because of the zig-zag flow of traffic across many lanes.
 
 Two weeks ago, Gurugram police, with conditional permission from NHAI, had started a trial to streamline traffic at the Delhi-Gurugram border in Sirhaul, right after the Shankar Chowk flyover. As a result of NHAI’s interference, on Sunday, March 11, one lane from either side were reduced from the total number of toll bays for  , bringing the number of toll-collection lanes down from 8 to 6. This will open up more space for private vehicles, who are not required to pay toll, to cross the lanes.
 
 TOI had recently reported that despite strict instructions, toll staff had been found standing in the middle of the lanes, trying to redirect commercial vehicles from lanes for non-commercial vehicles, increasing snarls during peak hours.
 
 “People have finally started to get aware of our ongoing trial, and have started appreciating it. On Friday, peak-hour traffic cleared by 8.15pm, as opposed to 10pm — the norm on Fridays,” said ACP (traffic) Hira Singh.
 
 Traffic police are currently making do with temporary flex signboards mounted on old boards to alert commuters of the changes. A temporary LED screen has also been installed to show directions at the point of diversion, till permanent signboards are installed. Sources said cops are waiting for NHAI officials to change instructions on the overhead gantry signs, which could prepare commuters better for the diversions from a distance. However, it is not clear when these changes will be implemented.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, NHAI officials co-uld not be contacted for comment.
 
 
