JAIPUR: The farmers in   region are heading for a major crisis. No takers for bumper garlic crop in the second consecutive year have forced the farmers to dump the crop rather to sell it in the mandi at Rs 2-4 per kilo. Three farmers, under debt have allegedly committed suicide over poor price of garlic in the market in less than a fortnight. State has come to the rescue by buying garlic at Rs 3,257 per quintal. The cap of 40 quintal per family has further irked the farmers.

 Over 35,000 farmers have grown garlic in Kota, Baran, Bundi and Jhalawar districts. State is buying garlic at six mandis-Raipur, Bakani, Khanpur, Keshoraipatan, Kolan and Sultanpur. Farmers have to ferry the produce for transporting garlic to the designated mandis which requires extra money.
 
  MLA from Chhabra, Pratap Singh Singhvi, has shot a letter to the chief minister   alarming her of severe political consequences if the issue is not resolved within weeks. “The resentment among farmers is neutralizing the impact of developmental works done by the government. Immediate steps should be taken to resolve the issue by taking the elected public representatives together,” said Singhvi, in a letter to the CM on Sunday.
 
 He also informed   that buying mechanism adopted by the state is faulty. “The cap of 40 quintal is meagre and will not benefit farmers at all. Most of the farmers have a garlic produce in the range of 100 quintals to 1,000 quintals,” said Singhvi.
 
 On the ground the situation is so worrisome that farmers are ready to dump the produce rather to sell in designated mandis. Virendra Vijay, a landless farmer said he had grown garlic in seven bighas of land with a rent of Rs 12,000 Rabi season. “I invested Rs 35,000 per bigha including RS 10,000 on seeds. My average produce is 10 quintal which is fetching me between Rs 2000-6000. I am incurring a loss of Rs 30,000 per bigha. How will I pay the   loan and pay to my landlord,” said Vijay. Similar is the story of farmers across the region.
 
 
