NEW DELHI: There are just 58 unmanned level crossings on “A, B and C” category railway routes that carry 80% of traffic and these will be eliminated in the “next few days”,   Piyush   has said.

 
 Shaken by the tragic accident at   in UP on April 26 in which 13 school children died, the ministry has moved to set a six-month deadline for shutting down some 2,000 unmanned crossings on “D, E and F” routes where the frequency of trains is much less. The Kushinagar accident was on one such route.
 
 “The accident that happened at an unmanned crossing in UP was very unfortunate and we lost children. We have been putting ‘gate mitras’ on the remaining 2,000-odd crossings in remote areas where there are very few trains during the day. But even that will be eliminated in the next six months or so,” Goyal said.
 
 This will leave only narrow gauge and meter gauge routes with unmanned crossings. “In these remote areas, we are devising a mechanism where there will be no night trains. These trains can easily navigate the crossings given that they run at very low speed,” the minister said.
 
 “Before the   government came in, there was a huge backlog of track renewal and there were thousands of unmanned crossings. There is a huge focus on track renewal. In the last one year, over Rs 4,400 km of track renewal has been done,” the minister said.
 
 The ministry is working for the March 2019 deadline to eliminate backlog in track renewal. The wear and tear of tracks contributed to accidents and also slowed down trains due to speed curbs. The process of renewal is also complicated as it requires blocks where train traffic is restricted while work is in progress.
 
 Asked why the railway is not showing the visible progress as evident in highways, Goyal said, “Highways are a great success story of this government. But challenges are significantly different. The railway works 24 hours a day and over 20,000 trains are moving on the network daily. So that leaves us with very little time for track renewal, modernisation and electrification. When I take a sixhour block, it has a huge impact that stretches to other zones. Despite that we are chasing aggressive targets.”
 
