Tuticorin: Twenty school and college going children shared a cup of coffee and ideas for the betterment of Tuticorin district with district collector N Venkatesh as part of the ‘Coffee with the Collector’ initiative on Thursday. “Officials like us get transferred while children have been in the district for 15 to 20 years and know the issues they are facing every day. They also have the solution for them,” the collector told TOI.

 Venkatesh added that cost effective initiatives will be implemented. “This programme also serves as a platform for us to explain functioning of the district administration and to motivate them to take up civil service examinations. These students take the message and share their experiences at the prayer in school and reach a larger audience. It also gives them confidence to raise questions and speak,” he added.
 
 The first ‘Coffee with the Collector’ meeting was conducted in August last year. Due to various reasons including examination of students, it could not be continued. Some suggestions given by students in the first meeting have been implemented. “It includes beautifying the city with wall paintings. We have identified 170 places and will start painting them,” the collector said.
 
 On Thursday the students suggested giving a boost to tourism in the district, providing more facilities at tourist spots, improving the green cover in the traditional way by planting more Palmyra seedlings and to motivate and train farmers to take up organic farming. They also suggested strengthening eco clubs in schools and colleges and involving them for various activities.
 
 Participating students include five from a government school and five from a private school, five each from arts, science and an engineering college. “Participants are identified by the school education and the higher education department authorities. The programme will be conducted every month,” said special tahsildar K Rajkumar who is the nodal officer for this initiative.
 
 About 15 days ahead of the programme, the identified students are briefed about the programme and are given 12 topics such as saving water and electricity, healthcare, tourism development, education, traffic optimisation, plastic eradication, women development and agriculture development. Students can identify problems and come out with solutions.
 
 
