Here are the films to look forward to in 2018...

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  Anik Chattopadhyay 
 
  Poila Boishakh, 2018 
 
  Dev and Rukmini Maitra 
 
  The film is based on a series of blasts in Mumbai.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Arindam Sil 
 
  January 19, 2018
 
  Saswata Chatterjee, Indraneil Sengupta, Subhrajit Dutta and Gaurav Chakrabarty, Diti Saha and Darshana Banik 
 
  Two girls, one from Kolkata and the other from Chandernagar, are raped and murdered. Shabor Dasgupta realises that the two cases are similar. He now starts his investigation to find the serial killer.
 
 
 
 
 
  Shiboprosad Mukherjee and Nandita Roy 
 
  May 2018 
 
  Shiboprosad Mukherjee, Gargee RoyChowdhury, Tanusree Shankar, Churni Ganguly, Aparajita Audhy, Devlina Kumar, Debleena Dutt, Sujan Mukherjee, Broto, Tiasha, Masood Akhtar and Koneenica Banerjee 
 
  The film is a hilarious drama about two school kids and their parents.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  Poila Boishakh, 2018 
 
  Prosenjit Chatterjee and   
 
  This family drama revolves around a lawyer and his client with whom he develops a relationship later.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
 
  May 2018 
 
  Jisshu U Sengupta, Sara Sengupta, Anjan Dutt, Srabanti, Rudranil Ghosh and Sayantika 
 
  The story focuses on a fatherdaughter relationship, an out-of-work filmmaker and the indomitable spirit of Kolkata during Durga Pujas.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  Aditya Vikram Sengupta 
 
  November 2018 
 
  Lolita, Burjor Patel, Jim Sarbh, Ratnaboli Bhattacharya, Sumanto Chattopadhyay, Indrajeet Sinha and Arunima Sinha 
 
  While Jonaki, an 80-yearold woman, searches for love in a strange world of decaying memories, her lover, now old and grey, returns to a world she is leaving behind.
 
 
 
 
 
  Anjan Dutt 
 
  Swastika Mukherjee, Anindya Chatterjee and others 
 
  April 2018 
 
  This is a story of four different families that are connected through a single incident of rape.
 
 
 
 
 
  Anindya Chattopadhyay 
 
  Durga Puja, 2018 
 
  Not yet decided 
 
  The film is based on a story by Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay. Manoj finds a photograph of an unknown boy at his home. The film depicts his journey to find out this boy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  Suman Ghosh 
 
  June 2018 
 
  Aparna Sen, Soumitra Chatterjee, Rituparna Sengupta, Sreenanda Sen, Saswata Chatterjee, Jisshu U Sengupta and Kaushik Sen 
 
  The characters played by Soumitra and Aparna are celebrating their 50th wedding anniversary. All the family members come together for the occasion and the drama unfolds from there.
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  January 19, 2018
 
  Jeet and   
 
  It is a romcom that revolves around two inspectors.
 
 
 
 
 
  Sandip Ray 
 
  Dhritiman Chatterjee and Subhasish Mukhopadhyay 
 
  December 2018 
 
  The film is based on one of the enthralling stories of Ray’s Professor Shonku series, called Nakur Babu O El Dorado.
 
 
 
 
 
  Anik Dutta 
 
  Second half of 2018 
 
  Swastika Mukherjee, Chandreyee Ghosh, Kaushik Sen and Moon Moon Sen 
 
  There is a new set of ghosts who were cast-off before their death and remained unwanted even after their lifetime. They live in an old theatre called ‘Batil Ghar’. Now, all these ghosts are trying to find a virtual space to live. It is their comeback story.
 
 
