MOHALI: After failing to get his statement recorded four times in a court during a trial, the prime witness, Tul Bahadur, of  's murder case has now become a distant catch for the Mohali police. Despite summons, Bahadur has failed to appear in the court. He, as of now, is in his native town in Nepal. 

 In January, a local court also issued non-bailable arrest warrants against Bahadur. An auto rickshaw driver, he was the first one to see blood oozing out of a suitcase in which Aikom's body was packed. The suitcase was being allegedly transported by   in her BMW car.
 
 Tul Bahadur, a native of Nepal has fled to his country and the sources in Mohali police said they tried to reach him through his relative who lives in Mohali. He, however, refused to come back to India.
 
 Police sources said that Bahadur had replied that his life was under threat as he again had started receiving threats. Earlier Bahadur had filed a complaint to   alleging that he has been receiving threats for being a witness in the case.
 
 Senior Superintended of Police (SSP)   said, "We have already written to the ministry of external affairs to get Bahadur back from Nepal. Now it is up to the ministry to get him back to India. "Court summons have also been sent to the ministry," the cop said.
 
 The earlier efforts of Mohali police to get him back for recording his statement had also gone down the drain. Sources in the police department said a team of Mohali police, without taking permission, tried to get him back to India but had to face resistance in Nepal and returned empty handed.
 
 Sources also said that they faced tough time during their visit to Nepal when they faced threats for approaching a person in foreign nation without coming through proper channel.
 
 Sources in the police department also said that police have been touch in with Bahadur through his uncle residing here in Mohali. 
 
 "When his uncle had called him up, he replied that he was in his home in Nepal and would only come back at will," sources said. 
 
 
