CHANDIGARH: Brigadier N S Sandhu (retired) who saved   town, which lies on the India-Pakistan border in  , during the 1971 Indo-Pak War, passed away on Friday. An officer of 3rd Cavalry,   was the recipient of country’s second highest gallantry award—Maha Vir Chakra (MVC)—for his heroic act to save the strategic position on the Western Fronts.

 His son   said the 87-year-old veteran was suffering from colon cancer and was not well for a long time. He is survived by his daughter Mandeep Sandhu, who is married to Lieutenant General Alok Singh Kler, present commander of Army’s 2 Corps ( ) based in Ambala, and son Sandeep, who is a businessman.
 
 Mortal remains of the decorated soldier would be consigned to flames on Saturday with full military honours. One of his close friends, Brigadier K S Chandpuri (retd) said Brig Sandhu’s demise is a great loss to the entire military veterans. He was also associated with The War Decorated India, an NGO working for the welfare of the war veterans. Brig Sandhu was commanding an infantry battalion of 10 Dogra Regiment when the war broke out in 1971. He was given the task to save Dera Baba Nanak, which is connected to several important towns in Punjab by road.
 
 Across the border was located the important rail-cum-road double-decker bridge connecting a number of Indian towns with Sialkot and Narowal in Pakistan. For Pakistan, it was of paramount importance to hold that bridge at all costs.
 
 For that reason, Pakistan had turned the eastern end of this strategic bridge into an impregnable fortress with concrete bunkers and pillboxes covering all conceivable approaches that were heavily mined. For India, it was equally important to defend Dera Baba Nanak, which has massive religious as well strategic importance.
 
 Brig Sandhu was assigned to capture the double-decker bridge over Ravi river. His battalion launched the attack on December 3, 1971, to capture but they faced huge hostilities like zero visibility due to foggy weather, inability of tanks to cross Ravi. At that time, 10 Dogra was supported by 71 Armoured Regiment.
 
 They were running behind the schedule and were heavily defended by Pakistan with the placements of MMGs and LMGs all across.
 
 “In that fierce battle, my boys fought courageously, even one of our officers, Captain D S Ahlawat caught a red hot barrel of the Pakistani army in a close fight and received six bullets before attaining martyrdom,” Brig Sandhu had told TOI in his last interaction.
 
 In the determined attack, 10 Dogra captured the eastern end of the  . In this battle, the unit lost seven including Captain Ahlawat. Sandhu, then a Lt Col, was wounded along with 25 other soldiers.
 
 The enemy had 30 soldiers killed and a large number of them were wounded. Besides, 14 Pakistani soldiers became prisoners of war (POWs).
 
 
