GUWAHATI: Once a hotbed of Bodo insurgency ravaged by militancy and ethnic violence since the 1990s,  , in Chirang district near the Indo-Bhutan border, has now produced a school brass band team which is the first ever from the state to be selected for participation in the   in New Delhi. 

 The young band members, all students of Bengtol Don Bosco Higher Secondary School, have set an example of transformation from being victims of insurgency to flag-bearers of patriotism. The band has been sweating it out in the national capital in the last few days to leave a mark of perfection at the celebrations where 10 ASEAN countries have confirmed their participation as guests of honour to commemorate 25 years of close ties with the southeast Asian bloc. "Tears welled up in my eyes when I saw the young team performing and that too in such a distant corner of the country," said noted educationist and provincial of the Guwahati Salesian Province, Fr VM Thomas, the man behind the idea of constituting the brass band team comprising boys and girls.
 
 The 45-cadet band saw a phenomenal rise in just two years after its formation in 2016. The rehearsals are on in full swing now as expectations would be high as they marching past with drums, trumpets and band instruments in front of VIPs and VVIPs. The band came into the limelight when it caught everyone's imagination at the state-level Republic Day celebrations. Impressed with their performance, chief minister   was keen to give them a bigger platform.
 
 As most of the members are from the victim families of insurgency or ethnic clash, Fr Thomas expressed hope that the youth brigade-mostly comprising Bodo youths-can rightly be called the messengers of peace and harmony. "Not a single family from Bengtol was untouched by insurgency that was at its peak in the 1990s. Many of the participants have seen how violence ravaged the Bodo-insurgency hit areas in western Assam. It's heartening that from such an erstwhile bastion of militancy, the youngsters have come forward to contribute towards nation-building," said Thomas. 
 
 
