HYDERABAD: Even after four years, the   didn’t make any headway despite court orders and no action has been initiated against erring officials and politicians involved in the scam.   (CID) is not able to determine the age of houses due to which the investigation got stuck.

 So far, neither recoveries were made nor any action taken against politicians allegedly involved in the scam. About 33.4 lakh houses were sanctioned between 2006-07 and 2013-2014. Of them, 20.49 lakh houses were completed by spending ₹7,168 crore. During initial investigation, it was found that in 593 villages, irregularities pertaining to 26,100 houses were noticed. Forum for Good Governance claims it received an RTI reply stating CID was seeking help of engineers for further action.
 
  
 CID additional directorgeneral (DG) Govind Singh told TOI, “We are still investigating the   housing fraud case. We have written to the vigilance seeking assistance on how to go about determining the age of the houses built. This is an engineering subject.”
 
 Forum for Good Governance secretary and retired IFS officer M   said, “After the formation of Telangana, the government wanted in-depth analysis of   and wanted to plug loopholes. In view of several allegations of misuse of Indiramma housing programme by certain unscrupulous persons and misuse of funds it was decided to entrust the case to CID for detailed inquiry, prosecution of culprits and recommend departmental action against erring officials. While the agency was conducting its investigation, suddenly something happened, they put brakes on their inquiry and reported to the government that they need the assistance of engineers to assess the age of the building as many old structures were shown as Indiramma houses.”
 
 “Neither CID has completed the inquiry nor V&E wing took up investigation. In spite of clear orders of the High Court, the CID has not completed its inquiry yet nor any action taken against the officials and others. Also, some amount was released to complete the incomplete houses. After four years, no recoveries were made nor any action taken against politicians involved. An inquiry into Indiramma housing scam, running into thousands of crores and started with big publicity, has now been swept under the carpet to protect politicians. Even the High Court orders have been ignored.”
 
 
