NEW DELHI: In his 44th radio address to the nation on Sunday, Prime Minister   paid homage to India’s first PM Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and saffron icon Vinayak Damodar Savarkar. In his monthly radio broadcast ‘Mann ki Baat’,   offered his ‘pranam’ to Nehru on his death anniversary, and said the month of May also reminded him of its link with Savarkar, who the PM said was a sensitive poet and a courageous revolutionary who worshipped both ‘shastra’ (weapons) and ‘shaastra’ (religious text). 

 
 “Besides these sterling qualities, he was also a striking poet and a social reformer who emphasised goodwill and unity,” Modi said. “It was Veer Savarkar who boldly expostulated by writing that whatever happened in 1857 was not a revolt but the first war of independence,” he added. 
 
 Remembering May 1857 as the month in which Indians displayed their strength against the British, and the youth and farmers stood up against injustices, as also for being the month and year in which Savarkar was born, Modi said, “A wonderful account about Savarkarji has been given by our dear honourable Atal Bihari Vajpayeeji. Atalji had said ‘Savarkar means brilliance, Savarkar means sacrifice, Savarkar means penance, Savarkar means substance, Savarkar means logic, Savarkar means youth, Savarkar means an arrow, and Savarkar means a sword. Behold’!” 
 
 The PM’s reference to unity was also reflected in his reference to June 21 as the International Day of Yoga, now a part of the “entire world’s collective consciousness”. Drawing from Sanskrit poet Bharthari’s ‘Shatak Trayam’, he said practising yoga helped build courage and imbibe forgiveness and mental peace.
 
 “Bharthari said with regular yogic exercise, truth becomes our child, mercy our sister, self-restraint our brother, Earth our bed, and knowledge satiates our hunger. When so many attributes partner, a yogi conquers all forms of fear. I appeal to citizens to adopt the legacy of yoga and create a healthy, happy and harmonious nation,” the PM said.
 
