GAYA: The ongoing inquiry into alleged financial bungling and violation of appointment rules in the directorate of distance education and department of education in Magadh University has hit a roadblock owing to non-availability of required documents.

  VC Prof Qamar Ahsan had constituted an inquiry committee headed by financial adviser RB Das in the second week of February to look into the allegations of bungling and other malpractices including an opaque recruitment system based more on personal choices than objective criteria.
 
 According to sources, the inquiry officer Das, sought the relevant files from Ramayan Prasad, director of distance education and B. Ed courses a couple of weeks ago. Prasad, however, informed the inquiry officer that though he assumed charge on January 23 this year, his predecessor has not handed over important files concerning the department.
 
 As per available documents, in one of the communication, Prasad wrote to his predecessor on March 3 reminding him of the promise to make available all relevant files within 15 days. According to sources, the inquiry officer has sought 11 categories of documents including bank statements, cheque book information and other account details, since the inception of the department. The department was established a decade ago. The inquiry officer has also demanded purchase file, stock register and expenditure incurred on building construction.
 
 The required documents also include list of vehicles owned by the department, price of the vehicles, make of the vehicles and use to which the vehicles have been put.
 
 Besides the list of teaching and non-teaching staff, the inquiry officer has also demanded all appointment-related documents including individual details of the appointees like their qualification, personal file, post advertisement clipping, proceedings of the selection committee, comparative chart of the job seekers, pay fixation order, recruitment process, appointment letter, name and designation of the appointing authority and joining report.
 
 When contacted, Magadh University VC Prof Qamar Ahsan said the financial adviser has informed him that papers have not been made available to him. He has taken a serious note of the non-cooperation in the inquiry process and stern action will be taken against officials found guilty of sabotaging the inquiry. Right now, the focus was on the union elections scheduled for March 17, and once the election is over, he will take up the distance education inquiry into all seriousness.
 
 
