Madurai: The commissioner of municipal administration G Prakash has told the Madurai bench of the Madras high court that manual   in the state had been completely eliminated and adequate modern equipment and machineries have been provided for sewage cleaning work. The commissioner said this in his status report submitted to the court in connection with a petition filed by one C Thirugnanam blaming the Karaikudi municipality authorities for failing to implement the provisions of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013.

 Commissioner of Karaikudi municipality V Sundarambal too reiterated that there was no manual scavenging activity in her jurisdiction.
 
 However, disputing it, the petitioner’s counsel told the court that manual scavenging still continues in Karaikudi municipality and he is ready to file affidavits of the manual scavengers. 
 
 Following it, the bench of justices C T Selvam and A M Basheer Ahamed adjourned the case to April 25 for further hearing along with a batch of petitions relating to civic issues in Karaikudi municipality. 
 
 The petitioner said that the Karaikudi municipality is looking after maintenance of drainages through private people who did not provide safety equipment to the sanitary workers. Besides, manual scavenging is taking place in many places in the municipality.
 
 This led the court to direct the commissioner of municipal administration to file a report regarding the safety measures taken for the welfare of scavengers.
 
 Accordingly, Prakash filed the status report. The commissioner said that a survey was taken place from July 1 to October 6 in 2014 to identify insanitary latrines and manual scavengers in all 664 civic bodies and out of 1,732 applications, 462 manual scavengers (393 men and 69 women) were identified. 
 
 The department implemented and follow all the instructions of the court to eradicate the practice of manual scavenging in the state. Manual scavenging had been completely eliminated.
 
 
