MYSURU: Lack of   as a destination   hub is one of the major issues hurting the tourism prospects of Mysuru City, said a report prepared by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII).

 Even after repeated attempts and new projects, the city is considered as a transit tourist hub. The CII report on the tourism sector of the city pointed out tourism as one of the largest employers and contributors to the GDP in Mysuru. However, its potential in terms of attracting more tourists and increasing the average tourist spend is left untapped.
 
 In its report, CII has pointed out that due to various reasons over 60% of the tourists who visit Mysuru spend only two nights in the city. The city has not been able to attract people to extend their stay for more than 2-3 nights.
 
 Winds of change
 
 Efforts are being made by various stakeholders, including the state tourism department and private tour operators, to promote Mysuru as three to six night destination tourism spot.
 
 Meanwhile, some local tour operators feel that changing the itinerary of tourists, which has remained unchanged from the last 30 years, will hurt tourism.
 
 H P Janardhan, deputy director, state tourism department, said, “Traditionally Mysuru means Palace, Chamundi Hills, Zoo and KRS…But now the situation is changing. 3D mapping of the palace is expected to attract tourists in large numbers. Film city, various national and international convention facilities and adventure sports will add to the makeover of the city.” 
 
 Taking cue from the recent developments, private players have started promoting Mysuru as a destination tourism spot.
 
 According to Anand Sandil, MD, Fun Holidays Instant Reservations, Ahmedabad, he has already brought a team of 80 couples along with their kids to Mysuru from Gujarat, who stayed in the city for three nights. “Mysuru city has great tourism potential. But the real challenge is in engaging the tourists for three nights. I have taken this as a challenge and ensured that tourists will have a three-night stay in the city. If tourists stay for three to six nights, it will help the local economy in a great way,” he said.
 
 Promoting Mysuru as destination tourism spot is the only way to promote tourism activities, he added.
 
 “In the coming days, I have plans to bring an all-women tourist group, for the Mysuru-Kodagu circuit. Aim is to make them stay in the city,” he said.
 
 B S Prashanth, president, Mysuru Travels Association, said: “One of the challenges we are facing now is engaging tourists during night. There are no cultural activities to keep them engaged. We are eagerly awaiting the 3D mapping of  , which is expected to keep tourists busy in the evenings,” he said.
 
 "Our success depends upon how we change the city’s tour itinerary,” he added.
 
 
