It was a cold December morning when I found her and her   in front of our gate. They were huddled against each other in their desperate attempt to fight the cold. As I tried to pick one from the litter, another grown up dog came running. It didn’t take me long to understand that she was the mother. 

 
 I went inside and brought a bowl of warm milk and an old blanket. Seeing food in my hands the mother understood that I wasn’t a threat and her menacing growl was replaced by a happy yelp and a wagging tail. The three little pups surrounded me as I placed the bowl of milk and the blanket in a corner. 
  
 
 It became a regular routine. Every morning, I will wait eagerly for the three little ‘devils’ and their mother. They were quite punctual and the sight of those happy faces made my days. It continued for a few weeks and I saw the furry little balls grow into young dogs. 
 
 
 One day I waited in vain for them to arrive. It was the first time in three months that the small family didn’t pay me a visit. The same continued for three days and I was slowly giving up hope of seeing them ever. On the fourth morning as I went out for my morning walk, I sensed someone following me. It was not a good feeling. I started walking faster but the soft footsteps behind me picked up pace too. It was a lonely bylane, which was a few kilometers away from my home. Suddenly, I could hear a familiar growl that came from a nearby bush. As I rushed towards the sound, I cried out in relief. It was one of the   and she started barking at the stranger who was behind me. Fortunately, the man walked away and never looked back. Till today I don’t know if he was following me or was it just my imagination, but after the incident, that small little puppy became an inseparable part of my life.
 
 
 Seeing that she was alone, I carried her to my home. My mother named her Puali (meaning the ‘little one’ in Assamese). We waited for her family to return but they never came. We only guessed that they might have found a better home. It didn’t take Puali long to get used to us and our ways.
 
 
 She became my mother’s favourite pet and the pack leader of our dogs. There is not a single moment that Puali does not bring a smile to our face. Mischievous as she is, she can also be quite bold when required. 
 
 
 Adopting her was the best decision of my life. Ten years since she came to our lives, she is growing big and strong everyday but for me she is still the brave little puppy who saved me from a stranger!
 
