JAIPUR: The Union government decision to extend the scheduled   areas in the state will benefit an additional 7,39,431 tribal population. With the inclusion of these new areas the total tribal population in the tribal areas have rose to 64,63,353. These tribal areas were included in the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution for special benefits and protection of their culture and heritage.

 Tribal Ara Development Commissioner, Udaipur, Bhawani Singh Detha said the state government had made a proposal to the Centre to this effect based on the 2011 Census. Accordingly, 663 more villages and three Nagar Palikas were added to the Tribal Sub Scheme Area where there is provsion for special schemes for the uplift of the community. 
 
 The newly included tribal areas are, 342 villages in Udaipur, 31 villages in Rajsamand district, 51 villages under Badi Sadri tehsil in   district, all the 155 villages under Choti Sadri tehsil in   district and one Nagar Palika, 33 villages in Pali district, 51 villages in Sirohi district and Abu Road and Mount Abu Nagar Palikas were included in the tribal areas. These villages would get the same benefits and schemes intended for the development of the tribal population.
 
 Now three complete districts- Banswara, Dungarpur, Pratapgarh- nine complete tehsils, one complete block and 46 complete gram panchayats covering 227 villages in district Udaipur, Rajsamand, Chittorgarh, Pali and Sirohi would be included in the Scheduled Areas in the state.
 
 No additional funds are required to be spent on account of declaration of Scheduled Areas, as this will be part of Tribal Sub-Plan (now renamed Tribal Sub-Scheme) within existing schemes of Central and the State Governments for more focused attention in Scheduled Areas for effecting speedy development.
 
 “The Scheduled Areas were first notified in 1950. Subsequently, Constitution Orders (COs) specifying the Scheduled Areas were issued for Rajasthan in 1981. The Cabinet approval by rescinding the Constitution Order (CO) 114 dated February 12, 1981 and promulgation of a new Constitution Order, will ensure that the Scheduled Tribes of Rajasthan will get benefits of protective measures available under the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution of India,” said Detha.
 
 
