PUNE: The classrooms of the   came alive on Friday after two months as teaching resumed following fruitful negotiations between the society and its employees.

 All the teachers started taking regular classes from Friday with just about a month to cover the syllabus for the term-end exams. The classes would be conducted on Saturdays and Sundays, said the teachers’ union.
 
 In a core committee meeting of staff members held late on Thursday night, the teachers decided to abide by the high court order and resume teaching so that the students did not suffer with the exams around the corner.
 
 Neha Godbole, a member of the core committee, said, “The decision to resume classes is temporary and only to respect the order of the high court. There is a hearing scheduled on March 14 and its outcome would decide our future course of action. In fact, I would say that our legal battle has just begun with the management.”
 
 As many as 562 staff members of the society have filed a petition in Bombay high court. About Rs117 crore is pending from the state social welfare department, prompting salary dues of hundreds of employees of  .
 
 The teachers and staff members said the decision to resume classes was taken during the core committee meeting only to ensure that the students did not suffer.
 
 Hundreds of teachers from the eight campuses of   Technical Education Society were on strike for the past two months because of non-payment of salaries and arrears. As many as 2,000 teachers and non-teaching employees of the society participated in the agitation. Apart from teaching, the practical sessions were stopped, causing a major loss to thousands of students.
 
 The teaching staff of Sinhgad Technical Education Society colleges earlier conducted makeshift classes on the campus to help students with their doubts. The teachers created a temporary help desk at the   campus to assist students and held doubt-clearing sessions outside the cultural centre, on staircases and other open spaces within the premises. Faculties from almost all the branches put up a table and chair within the campus and ran informal classrooms.
 
 
