Jaipur: All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has dropped the state’s oldest technical education institute, MBM Engineering College, Jodhpur from the list of ‘No Admission’ category after Rajasthan technical education department assured the body of fulfilling deficiencies as soon as possible. The formal announcement will be made on April 30. The college was forced to declare zero academic session (2018-19) last month.

 The college was established in 1951 and it is one of the oldest technical institutes in the country. The college was barred from the taking admissions in upcoming academic session due to widespread deficiencies found by AICTE inspection team. The foremost deficiency, which forms the basis for AICTE to take the strictest punishment, was the poor strength of faculty members. The college has 53 teachers against the required number of 236. 
 
 The debarring sent shock waves among its alumni, students and caused embarrassment for the state government. State swung into action by reaching out to AICTE and the college administration. Along with its noted alumni made sincere efforts to get the debarring status axed. 
 
 “State has assured the AICTE that the process of recruitment will be completed in phases. Besides, the state has told us that they have allocated funds to the college for maintenance, purchasing equipments for laboratories and and books libraries,” said an AICTE source
 
 Puneet Sharma, technical education expert says that this relief should be considered temporary. “The AICTE has shown to have zero tolerance for those institutes violating any rules and conduct. It should be a lesson for other state engineering colleges to fill vacancies and take a serious note of poor buildings and structures,” said Sharma. Students have also taken a sign of relief who also requested the AICTE that any such decision would affect their placements. 
 
 TOI learnt that maintenance work has started in college. The technical education department has asked other government engineering colleges to make a list of repair work and submit a proposal to them. 
 
 
