Mumbai: The country’s most valuable lender,  , is set to raise another Rs 24,000 crore — the highest-ever equity mop-up in India. In an interview with TOI,  , the bank’s MD & CEO, speaks of what he plans to do with the money. Puri also points out that there is a moral hazard in letting defaulters buy back their companies. Banks, as custodians of public money, need to ensure that defaulters do not flee the country, he says. Excerpts:

 A year ago, you were very upbeat about the economy…
 
 I am unable to understand the skepticism. A 7-7.5% growth in GDP indicates that the turmoil of   and   is behind us. I am also unable to understand the debate over the import tariff. These are not comparable to pre-1991. During that period, China was not China of today. In a lot of cases, there is predatory pricing. Also, we are seeing a bit of overvaluation because of all the inflows.
 
 What about the bad loan problem with banks?
 
 This is a problem that has accumulated over the years, which has now finally been recognised. Now the new bad loan regime does not give banks any room to move. My understanding is that defaults in loans outside stressed loans (problem loans to large projects that have been restructured) have peaked.
 
 The sector also appears to be in trouble because of the Nirav Modi fraud...
 
 Without defending anyone, frauds have been happening globally for a long time and nothing will be fraud-proof. Human frailty is a universal concept but it has to be detected fast. In a collaborative environment, 99% of the straightforward people act as a natural buffer.
 
 How do you manage operational risk in HDFC Bank?
 
 We regularly have internal and external audits and examination of our systems. There is an unbelievable number of software for fraud detection. A major part of our IT budget is not hardware and software, but for security and fraud protection. Anyone who tells an employee to deviate from systems has to be liable himself. We have a reasonably strict rule on password sharing — you share your password, you are sacked. 
 
 Do you feel keeping promoters out of the bidding in insolvency process is justified?
 
 This is a moral hazard issue. If you are saying a promoter is a defaulter and not fit for management, why are you giving the company back? With an open press and a democracy, this is not a viable discussion.
 
 What about the government directive requiring banks to keep a check on defaulters leaving the country?
 
 Banks are custodians of public money. It is logical that someone accused of an offence is not allowed to leave the country because extradition requires proof of criminal offence and it is difficult to establish this beyond doubt.
 
 Do you think investments will take a back-seat because of political uncertainty as elections near?
 
 There is no such thing. The day demand exceeds supply, everyone will go and invest. With growth moving to 7-7.5%, all the excess capacity is being used. The government is also adding to demand through spending on infrastructure. We are already seeing pick-up in cement, steel, commercial vehicles, automobiles and parts of FMCG.
 
 How do you plan to utilise the capital that you are raising? What opportunities are you seeing?
 
 India is the best opportunity for financial services in the world. Normally, the banking system grows at 1.5-2.0% of GDP. This means that at the higher end, bank credit will grow 14%. There is also a formalisation of the economy happening through GST and there is a major thrust on  , which will help banks. On a combined basis, we feel that growth for the next five to 10 years is not an issue. We do not want to go to the markets repeatedly, but want to do it once to fund growth for three years.
 
 How are you gearing up to grow?
 
 We are a completely different bank from what we were 1.5 to two years ago. We plan to be among the top five digital banks globally within the next few months. We have used digitisation to bring about efficiency and use data available with us to structure better products for our customers. Today, even someone who is not a customer can get a loan in 10 minutes. We can offer all products that we have in Mumbai in Jhumri Telaiya or Leh. We will soon be offering customers an omni-channel experience — you can be dealing with the bank over the phone in your car and continue the engagement over the computer once you reach office.
 
 Despite your size, why have you not expanded globally?Being an international bank does not mean going global. International means being able to offer international products and experience. We are the only Indian brand in the top 65 overall brands in the world. The best opportunity is in India.
 
 Will you look at inorganic opportunities?The current valuations are very high. There will be a shakeup in which we should get the right pricing. Today, even finance companies are having high valuations. With our investments, we can grow at an unbelievable pace.
 
 The unified payments platform is being dominated by third-party apps. What is your view on fintechs?Today the issue is: What are the cashbacks being offered? We are here to live in coexistence with other fintech providers rather than going for fusion. We have put in an API (application programming interface) platform, which enables us to partner fintechs using a white-label model. Payzapp and Chillr are not our products, but we are offering them to our customers to complete our range. If I can offer all services in one place frictionless, there is bound to be some advantage coming out of this.
 
 What is your view on foreign ownership of banks?You are welcoming foreign investments and they are here subject to Indian law. They are also here at your whims and fancies. I feel that foreign investment should come to the country subject to the country’s laws and, if in that law he cannot have management control, then you enforce that law.
 
 HDFC Bank is already the country’s 4th largest spender in corporate social responsibility (CSR). Is a foundation on the anvil?
 
 We don’t feel the need for one at this time. We already have — through our existing social initiatives — transformed lives of 1 crore Indian households, which is about 4 crore individuals. Through our Sustainable Livelihood Initiative (SLI) itself, we have made 80 lakh of women at the bottom of the pyramid financially independent. We have about 8,000 employees (around 10% of total workforce) directly involved in this initiative, which makes it one of its kind globally.
 
 
