MUMBAI: In a rare order labelling a   as charges weren't framed against the accused, a   has slammed the judge for conducting the trial in a "slipshod manner and without application of mind". The sessions court, hearing a   against a driver, found that even the recording of the final statement of the accused, to be taken under section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code before trial's close, was not done properly. 

  On February 13, 2014 Faizan Khan (33) was sentenced to two and a half years in jail for breaching his employer's trust. 
 
  The case against him is that he was entrusted by his employer to transfer goods (disks of tinfoil) from a port trust warehouse to a factory at MIDC Taloja, but he deposited them in the go-down of another person, who was later made a witness in the case. 
 
  The sessions court has set aside his conviction and ordered a retrial. Among those convicted, Khan was the only accused to have filed an appeal. 
 
 The court said the magistrate's order was not only unjustifiable, but also illegal.
 
 , and directed the framing of specific charges against Khan, the recording of his statement in a legal manner and a look at the case afresh on merit.
 
 The court said that putting the accused on trial and even convicting him without framing charges "not only caused serious prejudice to the accused, but also vitiated the trial". "On this very count the judgment recording conviction and sentence against the accused needs to be struck down at once," the sessions court said.
 
 Before charges are framed against an accused, prosecution and defence present arguments. A court then decides on the charges to be framed, explains them to the accused and gives him an opportunity to plead guilty or not guilty.
 
 In Khan's appeal, his defence told the sessions court that the five persons accused in the case were only asked how they pleaded, and on pleading not guilty, trial was commenced against them.
 
 Explaining the relevance and importance of the process of framing of charges against an accused before trial commences, the court said, "It is the settled position of law that the framing of a proper charge is vital to a criminal trial and this is a matter on which the judge should bestow the most careful attention. The accused person is entitled to know with certainty and accuracy the exact nature of the charge brought against him."
 
 The court also expressed shock at the fact that the final statements of all five accused were identical. It said this showed that the magistrate had conducted the trial in a casual manner.
 
 At the end of a trial, a court poses a series of questions to the accused, allowing him to personally give an explanation about the circumstances on evidence against him. Though not treated as evidence under law, the answers of the accused are taken into consideration by the court to appreciate the truthfulness of the prosecution's case. "Surprisingly, only one answer for all accused has been recorded for each of the twenty questions in the (breach-of-trust case). It is difficult to understand that for which one of those five accused were the answers recorded," the sessions court said.
 
 
