MUMBAI: The 21-year-old son of a police officer was found murdered in a desolate spot by a lake at Aarey Colony on Wednesday. Atharva Shinde had left home on Monday to attend a birthday party of a friend's friend. But he did not return and his phone was switched off since Tuesday afternoon, which led his father, Narendra, to set out on a search. The father found the son's battered body half a kilometre away from the party venue on Wednesday morning. The Aarey Colony police have questioned 25 people and suspect that seven to eight men could be involved in the murder. 

  Atharva had studied sound engineering in Pune and was a fan of Dutch DJ Armin van Buuren. An only child, he lived in Thakur Village, Kandivli (east), with his parents. His father is an inspector with the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the police. Shinde told TOI that investigators would get to the bottom of the case. 
 
 On May 7, Atharva told his parents he was headed for a birthday party at Royal Palms, Aarey. He went to the party venue, a bungalow, with a woman friend. Later that night, Atharva texted his family saying he would be staying back for the night. 
 
 The next morning, Narendra called up Atharva to check on him, but his calls went unanswered. Narendra then left for work. Late in the afternoon, he called again. This time, Atharva's phone was switched off. Narendra asked Atharva's friends about the party venue and reached Royal Palms. He went to the bungalow and searched the area around it. Narendra was joined in the search by friends and relatives as they scoured the jungle. Around 10.30am the next day, they found Atharva's body by the lake, half a kilometre away from the party venue. Narendra called the police and the body was sent for an autopsy.
 
 Forensic experts said the murder occurred between midnight and 10am on Tuesday. A post-mortem examination revealed severe injuries to Atharva's torso from beatings. He had suffered blows on his eyes and had contusions on his ribs and lungs. There were lacerations on his private parts. "A preliminary probe has shown that around 20 to 25 people attended the party. They were aged 18-22 years. A fight broke out after which people started to run helter-skelter. We suspect the accused were high on liquor and drugs. They are likely to have chased Atharva as he ran," said a senior police officer. "We are examining CCTV footage from outside the venue. A case of murder has been registered."
 
 Police said one of the girls at the party has been hospitalised. Atharva owned an iPhone, which the police have been unable to unlock. They will go through his call data record and check his social media accounts for clues.
 
 Several police officers rallied around Narendra at Goregaon's Siddharth Hospital, where his son's body was brought on Wednesday. DCP Parag Manere of the EOW met Narendra at the hospital to offer his condolences.
 
 
