BHUBANESWAR: It was a super show by   in every sense of the term. No wonder Albert Roca’s side emerged deserving winners of the inaugural  , blowing away 10-man   4-1 in the final at Kalinga Stadium here on Friday.

 East Bengal players trooped off the ground dejected but were left wondering how the game could have unfolded had Gurpreet Singh not benefited from referee R Srikrishna’s leniency, with the game just seven minutes old. The BFC goalkeeper escaped with just a booking when he came out of his box to floor Ansumana Kroma with a high kung fu-like kick aimed at the Liberian’s ribcage.
 
 Kromah did give his team the lead 21 minutes later, but East Bengal paid a big price as two of their players committed hara-kiri. First, right-back Samad Ali Mallick had a brainfade moment, hitting Subhashis Bose on the face and drawing a straight red card on the cusp of half-time. Gurwinder Singh then played the villain, handling the ball while clearing danger and allowing BFC to get their nose in front with Sunil Chhetri converting the resultant penalty in the 67th minute.
 
 From thereon, East Bengal lost the plot as BFC raced away to complete the demolition job in style. “I think we have been the best team in Indian football this season,” Roca said after the match. For the third time in four matches here, BFC fell behind when Kromah provided East Bengal with a 28th-minute lead. The moment Gurpreet managed to parry Katsumi Yusa’s corner, the alert Liberian swooped on the opportunity in the melee and met the rebound with a splendid overhead kick, giving the India custodian no chance to react.
 
 But the ISL runners-up summoned their typical resilience to turn the tables on the opponents. Right-back Rahul Bheke levelled scores six minutes from half-time, dealing a blow to his former team’s aspirations.
 
 BFC returned to the field with a spring in their steps and shredded East Bengal to pieces with a clinical football. Chhetri then rose to the occasion again, outjumping Lalramchullova in stoppage time to head home his second goal, putting the icing on the cake of a memorable triumph. East Bengal threw the injured Dudu Omagbemi into the contest five minutes from full time. But by then, BFC had already sealed the Super Cup.
 
