Ludhiana: Amid the clamour for justice to the Kathua gang-rape and murder victim, which has been growing across the country, city residents are taking to social networking sites to voice their support for severe punishment to the culprits. 

 Advocate Sahil Sharma from Dugri shared a message on Whatsapp which read: “I thought being a lawyer made me emotionally strong, but the brutality committed on an eight-year-old child in Kathua has changed my perception. Her image did not let me sleep for the past two days. By keeping mum, I feel like a culprit too, and my blood is boiling when the accused used the shield of Hinduism. I am angry because of these beasts.”
 
 City-based doctor Priti Vohra wrote on Facebook: “Why is everything related to religion? Can’t it just be based on humanity? On compassion for a child who had to go through so much at such a tender age? Why does the ruling party play the religion card every time? Is this just to divide people? Why can’t the people understand this? We should all unite together against all this for a better tomorrow for future generations.”
 
 A young poetess from the city, Srishti Jaitwani, wrote a poem in Urdu on the rape and murder, that loosely translates as: ‘The humanity of humans stands brutally naked at the crossroads; Our darling daughters drown pathetically in swamps of fear, greed, lust, and deceit; Their blush pink palms, oh so gentle, turn red from their own spilled blood; Humanity has failed them, humans have failed them. Please don’t let this barbarian wave take over the essence of humanity; Rise above politics and religion; Join hands in unification; Let the good rise against the evil.”
 
 Meanwhile, Punjab’s Shahi Imaam Maulana Habib-ur-Rehman Saani Ludhianvi has demanded strict punishment for the culprits of Kathua rape-murder, and Unnao rape case. He condemned the political game of implicating some and saving others in the name of religion. He said the governments were running away from their responsibility, and that is why such heinous crimes were frequently taking place in the country. He added that politicians should make solid laws to ensure the safety of daughters in the country. Meanwhile, a city-based Facebook page has kept a picture of the girl as the cover photo. 
 
 
