Ludhiana: History was made again when city-based weightlifter  , 24, clinched a bronze medal in the ongoing Gold Coast Commonwealth Games on Sunday. 

 The moment of Indian flag going up during the medal ceremony left Vikas and his family in tears. Overjoyed, they broke into a celebration at their residence in Railway Colony, Old City. 
 
 In Glasgow Commonwealth Games, 2014, too, Thakur had won a silver medal in 85kg weight category by lifting a total of 333kg weight. This time, he participated in 94kg category and lifted a total of 351kg weight, 159kg snatch and 192kg clean and jerk. This was the third international event for Thakur in 94kg weight category. 
 
 Before the event around 5am on Sunday, Vikas called up his mother for blessings. “Vikas calls me up before participating in all international competitions. I see him on TV screen when he comes to lift the weight, and then close my eyes and pray for him till the event finishes,” said his mother Asha Thakur.
 
 His father Brij Lal Thakur said, “Vikas performed the best in snatch by lifting 159kg weight, while he could not perform well in clean and jerk. He attempted to lift 200kg in clean and jerk, but failed. We lost hope of his medal, but his competitor could also not lift. Earlier it was a silver medal and now a bronze. We are not disappointed that he won a bronze, but we are proud that he made the Indian flag fly high.” 
 
 As soon as Thakur was declared a winner, his father, who has got a fracture in left foot, started dancing with one leg. Wishes started pouring in and the family has been in a celebratory mode since his achievement. 
 
 For this big day, Vikas’s sister Abhilasha and her husband Sangeet came home to watch his performance with family.
 
 Abhilasha said, “We were confident that he would get a medal for the country. This is such a proud moment for us.”
 
 Sangeet said, “He called me after winning the medal. Vikas’s voice is still echoing in my ears. He said, ‘Jiju saab jeet liya medal’. He was emotional and proud.” 
 
 Father had predicted it
 
 On Saturday, Vikas’s father Brij Lal Thakur had predicted his win, either silver or bronze. And, he had also written it on the wall of his room. 
 
 Olympic dream
 
 Olympics is the only dream of Vikas and his family. Sister Abhilasha said they only wish Vikas wins a medal in 2020 Olympics.
 
 Rousing reception 
 
 The family said Vikas will reach India on March 12 and would be given a grand welcome
 
 From boxer to weightlifter
 
 Vikas’s family is from Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh. He was three and a half years old when they moved to Ludhiana. His father said, “Vikas was all of four when he would take three rounds of Guru Nanak Stadium. Sports always attracted him. Then I pushed him for boxing. Initially, he would practise with a bag of sand. Later, I gifted him boxing gloves on his birthday. The city did not have a good boxing coaching centre, so I sent him to the nearest Ludhiana club of weightlifting and body building at the age of eight. Since then, he has been participating in weightlifting championships, at school level, national level and now making country proud at international level.”
 
 His achievements
 
 2017: Bronze medal in Commonwealth Championship, Gold Coast-2017, under 94kg weight category
 
 2016: Gold medal in 12th SAF Games, India, under 85kg weight category
 
 2014: Silver medal in Glasgow Commonwealth Games under 85kg weight category
 
 2015: Gold medal in Senior Commonwealth Championship, India, under 85 kg weight category
 
 2013: Silver medal in Senior Commonwealth Championship, Malaysia, under 85kg weight category
 
 2013: Gold medal in Junior Commonwealth Championship, Samoa, under 77kg weight category
 
 2013: Gold medal in Junior Commonwealth Championship, Malaysia, under 85 kg weight category 
 
 
