NEW DELHI: Saturday recorded the hottest day in Delhi this season. It was the highest at   after three years as the mercury touched 45 degrees Celsius — five notches above normal.   also recorded its highest maximum temperature of the season at  . 

 Met officials said similar conditions are expected over the next two to three days before a brief respite in the form of light rain on Wednesday.
 
 The Saturday’s temperature at Safdarjung was the highest since May 26, 2015 when a maximum of 45.5 degrees Celsius was recorded. The maximum last year was 44.6 degrees on June 5 and 6. The highest maximum recorded ever at Safdarjung was on May 29, 1944 when it touched 47.2 degrees Celsius.
 
 Officials from the regional Met office said the heatwave is expected to continue on Sunday, following which a gradual drop would be seen. “Rain is expected around Wednesday, but before that, there will mainly be clear sky. Sunday could have similar highs after which the maximum will drop to around 42-43 degrees,” a Met official said.
 
 The forecast shows a possibility of   on Tuesday, while light rain and drizzle could take place on Wednesday.
 
 Met officials also pointed out that the last time when Palam hit 46 degrees Celsius, Safdarjung had a maximum of 44 degrees. However this time, the difference between them is just 1.2 degrees Celsius, which points towards the fact that the inner city is also heating up a lot. “This could be because on the first day of the heatwave on May 22, it was not uniformly spread, but as it has settled over the period, the temperature difference between the outer and inner parts of the city has been reducing,” said an official.
 
 Forecast for Sunday shows a maximum of 45 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung and 46 degrees at Palam, the official added.
 
 Meanwhile, a wildlife body claimed that two kites were rescued from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s office after the birds collapsed due to severe heat exhaustion and dehydration. Wildlife SOS said its veterinarians were providing care to the birds.
 
 
