When there is so much that won't get done without us actually doing it,   becomes the last of our concern - simply because it happens naturally. But the fact remains. Most of us have managed to bungle it and in ways that are detrimental to our well being. Agree or not, we have mastered the art of shallow breathing and in the process have put our health at risk.

  Now take a break and monitor how many times you naturally breathe in a minute. Do this at rest. I did it and even when I was trying to be conscious of my breathing, I clocked 15 in a minute. It is said that to increase your life span, you must reduce your regular respiratory rate from 16 breaths/ minute to 10.
 
  We enter this world fully capable of taking long deep   but as we age we forget how to breathe properly. Not realizing that our breathing rate defines our well being as well as how long we will live.
 
  Doctors from the Boston University School of Medicine, studied 5000 patients over a period of 30 years and figured that breathing capacity of people could ‘predict both long-term and short-term mortality’. According to Dr. William Kannel, “One’s vital breathing capacity can tell if they are going to die 10, 20 or 30 years from now.”
 
  It was found that sick people have faster respiratory pattern. These include people suffering from  , diabetes, heart issues and even cancer. So what exactly happens when you breathe rapidly? It makes your body deficient of carbon dioxide, which in turn reduces the delivery of oxygen to cells. It also cuts down the time you hold your breath, making the automatic halt between breaths almost absent.
 
  Controlled breathing helps in better functioning of cardiovascular, nervous, immune and gut systems of your body. It is said that once you start taking less than 10 breaths per minute, the body starts engaging your parasympathetic nervous system. This magically helps your body soothe when it faces any injury. Not only that, slow breaths also bring alive a nerve, which is often linked to a recuperative state.
 
  The benefits of slow breathing are plenty. It helps increase heart-rate variability, which monitors the fluctuation of your heartbeat while performing an activity.
 
  Contrary to what most of us believe, pranayama is the core of yoga and not asanas (especially not suryanamaskar). Pranayama helps in energizing our core and helps us breathe slower and more effectively. So the next time you go to your yoga class and the instructor skips pranayama, raise a question!
 
  So, dear readers, slow down. Slow down your breathing and inhale more oxygen with every breath you take. Our bodies can store nutrients from food but oxygen doesn't stay inside our body for longer durations and needs to be replenished at regular intervals to produce energy.
 
 
