Guntur: Taking advanced technology to the door-step of the common, the state government has decided to switch over to chip-based   collection mode. Solid waste management will be monitored real-time once all households in the urban   are brought under technology-driven governance.

 According to the blue-print prepared by the municipal administration department, all households will be tagged with RIFD (radio frequency identification)   to the central server in the command control room to be set up in the municipal corporation.
 
 The chip inserted in the tag will read the garbage data while being collected by the sanitation staff from the households. The chip will simply read the quantum of dry garbage and wet garbage being pooled from each household and send information to the command control room.
 
 Health wings of the respective municipal bodies would allocate separate unique ID numbers to each house before starting the process. Small areas in the colonies would be tagged to micro-pockets to assess the total quantum of garbage being collected from each point.
 
 The assessment of quantum of garbage would help senior officials in deputing sufficient number of workers to a particular area and complete the job early. “We can analyse the things easily and take quick decisions in the   of garbage from households and also commercial establishments,” said Sambamurthy, project officer, solid waste management, in the directorate of municipal administration.
 
 He said the latest technology will also help resolve complaints from the citizens as the chip would provide evidence whether the workers are collecting the garbage on daily basis or not. “It will not be easy to skip the duties once the chip- based technology is introduced,” he explained.
 
 Prior to tagging of all households to RIFD technology, the residents in all the colonies would be trained and made to tune in to separate the garbage into two bins - dry and wet. Garbage collection workers would also undergo training in collection practices so that they would not deviate from the standard protocols being followed to segregate the garbage.
 
 The new system is being introduced in the Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) on pilot basis. “We shall implement the new system in two municipal divisions in the city on pilot basis and introduce it in the other wards based on the feedback,” GMC commissioner C Anuradha said.
 
 
