GURUGRAM: If Gurugram made a mark by registering the best sex ratio in almost a decade,   is its star.

 The village of 5,000 has swum against the tide and reported the best sex ratio in the district — 1,866 girls for every 1,000 boys. In 2017, 28 girls were born in Naurangpur as against 15 boys. Sex ratio is a comparison of the number of girls and boys born in a particular area in a year. The figures are then translated per thousand. 
 
 The transformation — in a state where low sex ratio was a cause for concern for years — hasn’t been overnight. The villagers admit they preferred boys to girls and resorted to female foeticide. But gradually, things changed. 
 
  
 The villagers now pool in money if parents find it tough to raise a girl child and get her married.
  
 “In the past, we faced so many problems because of the low sex ratio. It was so difficult finding a bride for the boys. Even at the current rate, it will take at least 20 years for things to improve,” said Babu Lal, a village elder.
 
 As female foeticide was prevalent across  , this village was no exception.
 
 “Gradually, the villagers realised the helplessness of a mother whose unborn child is killed. The father, too, wouldn’t feel any better. It took time. But we have now decided that such things won’t be allowed in the village anymore,” said Premvati, another villager.
 
 The villagers have now taken it upon themselves to ensure that a girl gets proper education and gets married when she grows up. If need be, they pool in money to fund the girl’s studies and her marriage. This, the villagers said, is to ensure nobody kills a girlchild for fear of her upkeep.
 
 “It was the villagers who came together to contribute for my daughters’ wedding. At that time, I realised that it was a mistake on my part to fear giving birth to a girl. It’s been one and a half years now, and my daughters are happily married,” said Chandrapati Devi, a villager.
 
 The young girls, too, are encouraged in Naurangpur to pursue higher studies. When parents fail to arrange for fees, the villagers and neighbours pitch in.
 
 Each year, the village with the best sex ratio is given an award by the district health department. It’s turn for Naurangpur this time.
 
 “Naurangpur will be given Rs 1 lakh by the administration. The panchayat will receive the money and it will be distributed among the three girls from the village who will take the Class X exams this year. 
 
 The topper will be given Rs 50,000, the runner-up Rs 30,000 and Rs 20,000 will be given to the girl who ranks third. We want our daughters to be well-educated and set an example for everyone who consider them any lesser than the boys,” said Praveen Yadav, the village sarpanch.
 
 
