Jaipur: Aircraft movement and hotel industry occupancy are the two key indicators for assessing the health of the   industry and both the segments appears to be on a roll in Rajasthan in the past couple of years.

 Speaking on the sidelines of the inbound travel mart Great Indian Travel Bazaar, said Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, tourism, culture, forest and environment on Tuesday said that aircraft movement has grown 35% in Jaipur and 25% in Jodhpur and 20% in Udaipur and similarly, the volume of air passenger traffic has expanded by 31% in Jaipur and 54% in Udaipur airports.
 
 “Today, Jaipur airport operates 70 flights daily compared to 38 in 2015. This shows there is a strong demand for air travel, which is a key proxy to tourism,” added Agarwal.
 
 Flights from tier-II and tier-II cities like Varanasi, Lucknow, Guwahati, Chandigarh, Surat, and Indore are now operational, thanks to the Centre’s Udan scheme that promotes air travel beyond the metros and leading cities in the country.
 
 International carriers like AirAsia, AirAsia X have recently started direct flights between Jaipur and South East Asian countriee.
 
 “Sharjah, Dubai Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, and Singapore are now connected to Jaipur by air. This will pay off hugely in providing a tailwind to the tourism in Rajasthan,” added Agarwal.
 
 The hospitality industry also seems to be traveling lock in step with the growth in the aviation sector.
 
 Agarwal said that despite the room inventory increasing by 50% since 2007-08, the hotel industry has clocked an occupancy of 65%, which was last seen before the subprime crisis ushered in economic recession in 2009.
 
 The buoyancy in both the key sectors is well reflected in the number of tourist arrivals in the state which has increased by 17.5% in 2016 and 10.5% in 2017, added Agarwal.
 
 Box
 
 MP tourism to promote adventure tourism
 
 Jaipur: Union tourism ministry has announced 2018 as the year for adventure tourism and Madhya Pradesh has chalked out a strategy to promote the segment in a big way. It has identified activities like cycle safari and trekking in Kanha National Park, Pachmarhi, and Amarkantak, said Yuvraj Padole, general manager, events and marketing, MP tourism board. He said water tourism is also a thrust area under the initiative. MP government has allocated Rs 200 crore for development of tourism infrastructure, marketing and promotional activities. Padole said funds would not be a constraint for developing adventure tourism infrastructure. tnn
 
 
