To get a sense of just how far behind   have fallen, a look at the Indian Super League ( ) table after the fifth round should help.
 
  Widely circulated on social media by FC Goa’s disheartened fans, the table shows the Goan franchise perched right on top, above Bengaluru FC, with 12 points. It came on the back of a hat-trick of victories where they scored a jaw-dropping 14 goals from just three matches. Star striker Ferran Corominas also helped himself to a record of successive hat-tricks.
  
  Since then, the tables have turned; Goa picked up just eight points from the next nine matches, losing three at home, and a consistent Bengaluru FC have picked up 22, leaving the early-season ‘favourites’ hanging by a thread.
  
  Fortunately for   and his team, it’s not over as yet. Like the Spanish coach said after the last home loss, it’s still in their own hands, although four victories – or a minimum of three, depending on which way the league is shaping – from the remaining four matches still seems like a gigantic ask.
  
  FC Goa no longer instil fear in the minds of their opponents. They lack confidence after failing to score in successive matches, and even against bottom-placed   FC, who they demolished 5-1 in the away match and now meet again at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Wednesday, three points cannot be taken for granted.
  
  “We have to focus on recovering the confidence of the players. We have a good team which we have already demonstrated throughout the course of the season, and we have to do the same now in the final phase,” Lobera told TOI on Tuesday.
  
  Lobera admitted the team is under pressure to win for the first time at home in four matches but still remains excited at the challenge.
  
  “I think we can achieve something special this year and we are four wins away from that,” he said.
  
  Delhi Dynamos are at the bottom of the table but the visitors have shown they are no pushovers. They have already defeated Bengaluru FC, drawn against Chennaiyin FC and have four points from their last two matches. Interestingly, they have scored in each of their last seven matches, and with Goa’s porous defence providing open invitations to attack, there will be nervous moments.
  
  “We always play well, and lose. That is the problem for my team; play well and lose. For the last two matches, we have done well to draw and win. That gives us confidence to win in the next four games. For us, I have told the players that every game is a final for us now because we want to finish by winning all the remaining games,” said Delhi coach Miguel Portugal.
  
  There will be added motivation for players like Romeo Fernandes and Manuel Arana who will be eager to prove a point. Romeo was released by the Goan franchise who opted to retain goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani instead, and Arana was eased out during the international transfer window to make way for Moroccan midfielder Hugo Boumous.
  
  Boumous himself is expected to be in the starting line-up for Goa as a replacement for the suspended Manuel Lanzarote. Just too much at stake here.
