GURUGRAM: A 40-year-old man was crushed under the wheels of a   while crossing the tracks at Huda City Centre   on Saturday afternoon in an accident that disrupted the services for about half an hour.

 Eyewitnesses claimed the man, who was later identified as Bura Singh, got off a metro coming from the Delhi-side at the last station on DMRC’s Yellow Line and jumped on the tracks trying to go to the other side when a Delhi-bound metro hit him. 
 
 “He fell under the wheels and was dragged a few hundred metres before the driver could slam the brakes and stop the metro. He sustained fatal injuries,” said a commuter who was waiting for a metro to Delhi around 2pm when the accident took place.
 
 The man was later identified with the help of documents found in his bag. But it is not clear why he was trying to cross the tracks. Preliminary probe revealed Singh (40), originally from Kanpur (Utter Pradesh), worked as a labourer in Manesar. He had moved to   around a year ago and had been living with his son Ranjeet Singh (20) in a rented house there.
 
 Singh was returning to Manesar after spending a week at his native place in Kanpur. According to police, Singh had boarded a train at Kanpur on Friday and reached New Delhi railway station on Saturday. “From New Delhi station, he took a metro and got off at   station. He was trying to cross the tracks when he was hit by a metro. He died on the spot,” said spokesperson for Gurugram police  .
 
 “Prima facie it appears to be an accident but we are analyzing CCTV footage of the station to create a sequence of events. We are investigating the matter,” he said. Police later informed Singh’s son Ranjeet (20), who runs a roadside shop in Manesar.
 
 A DMRC official said trespassing or crossing the metro tracks was a punishable offence that might attract a fine of Rs 250 under Section 64 of the Delhi Metro Operation & Maintenance Act. “We always advise general public not to cross the tracks in this manner as it may prove fatal and affect the metro services too. Crossing or walking on the tracks is a punishable offence,” he added.
 
 Sources said CISF personnel apprehended and fined at least 110 passengers for crossing the metro tracks since January 2018. To avoid such incidents, DMRC has decided to install platform screen doors at all its upcoming corridors. Some stations on the Magenta Line’s section, which is functional currently, already have such doors.
 
 
