When the director and the actors of a   have a great camaraderie, it shows on screen and off it as well. And that’s the kind of rapport we saw when the team of   recently visited the Bangalore Times office. In a fun chat,  ,   and   talk about their experiences while shooting for Dalapathi and more. Excerpts…

 
 
 
  Dalapathi and Zoom began at the same time. There were date issues with the actors and I had started shooting for Zoom. Prem was shooting for Chowka, in which he sported different looks, and Kriti had Bollywood commitments at the same time. So, the three of us began working on different films. We came back and now Dalapathi is ready for release. 
 
 
 
 
  What is this term? I hate it. Okay, if it agrees with everyone, it’s a great comeback.
 
 
 
 
  Yes I have. It’s not just missing Kannada cinema, it’s about missing the people that I started off with. I miss the people because I connected with them. Like Prashant is my biggest enemy in the world but I’ve genuinely missed him (laughs).
 
 
 
 
 Dalapathi is a pucca commercial and entertainment film and everyone will like it. Chowka had a social message in it, but this we’ve done it differently. The whole family can watch Dalapathi and they won’t be disappointed
 
 
 
 
 Everyone used to ask me the same thing. Dalapathi is the right title and completely apt for this film and goes with the story line. In the film, you will see Prem fighting for love.
 
 
 
 
 Well, the sound mixing engineer who worked with us had worked for Thalapathy. In one of the songs, you will see some old ladies dancing; they were a part of Thalapathy as well. The same group of people came from Chennai and joined Prem for the title song.
 
 
 
 
  Yes absolutely. I had launched Charan in my third film, Whistle. I had liked his work and then I signed him for Dalapathi. Technically, Dalapathi should’ve have been his first film. But he has delivered a brilliant album.
 
 
 
 
  Kriti is every guy’s dream girl (laughs). I always wanted to work with her and was waiting for the right script. So, Dalapathi gave us the opportunity to work with each other. When it comes to Prem, I need to thank my team and production because Prem has a lovely image in the film — that of a commercial comeback hero. People will love him throughout the film.
 
 
 
 
 The script itself. When we heard the script, we thought ‘that’s it. We are making this film’. It was challenging for me and for Prem and Kriti too, because you will see Kriti go through so many things in the film. You will see her in a North Karnataka setting, which has been a really great experience.
 
 
 
 You will see Prem in a completely different avatar and I don’t know what will happen to the boys when they see Kriti on screen (laughs). To be honest, while watching the final print, when I saw both of them on screen, I was just stunned. The looks and the pairing worked. Kriti helped me with the looks and the costumes. Prem also helped me with a lot of accessories, since he has two looks in the film.
 
  Overall, it’s a very stylish film. There’s a lot of style involved and that I think is a ‘Prashant Raj’ thing. The team has made sure that the youth connects and that it sets a trend, whether it’s Prem’s look or mine.
 
 
 
 
  Prashant is someone who has always pushed me to perform, to be better and a lot of things. He’s probably one of the best directors I’ve worked with. He’s extremely talented and understands his craft but what I love the most about him is that he loves what he does. 
 Prem, on the other hand, is like mama (laughs). I call him mama for fun and he calls me bhaanji. I had a lot of fun shooting this film. There used to be chaos on the set every day. Prem and I both rode a tractor and it was so much fun. Prashant made sure that we had fun throughout the shoot.
 
 
 
  I saw Kriti’s film Googly and I appreciated her performance. And when we began shooting for Dalapathi, I saw how she is in real life. She’s a fantastic actor. She has fantastic energy and is a really good performer. I didn’t know she had so much energy. When it comes to Prashant, I have to say that though it took Dalapathi about three years to finish, in the entire process we have never had any negativity between us. Our bond is such that there are only positive vibes.
 
 
 
 This is the second time I’m working with Ganesh, after Zoom. Priya Anand is the actress in the film. Other than that, the technical team and the crew are more or less the same. It will be like a Kannada Rohit Shetty film with lot of fight sequences and entertainment.
 
 
 
 
 I’m currently shooting for Yamla Pagala Deewana Phir Se. Apart from that there is another film with Dulquer Salman. It’s a fairly exciting 2018 for me.
 
 
 
 
  No, as of now I haven’t signed anything. I have heard two scripts and we’re trying to work around the dates.
 
  The dubbing for Life Jothe Ondh Selfie is over and post production work is on. The movie will release after the elections.
 
 
 
 
  I have a great team back in Mumbai. Right from my manager to my PR agency, everyone is great. Apart from that, I think I adapt very easily. So, I didn’t find it very difficult at all. Clothes and fashion is something that I’ve always been inclined to. Even for my films, I always ensure that I wear clothes that I enjoy and be able to set a trend with. But it is a little taxing for all the time and effort that is put in. But I’m glad it happened.
 
 
 
 
  I lookout for the story and the character. We’re all friends with each other in the industry and for me, it’s not like if I’m doing a commercial film, I should be the only actor in it. We tend to have pre-conceived notions about other actors but it’s only when we work together, that we find out how they are. When a movie does well, we all do well and this benefits the industry. Most of Kriti’s Bollywood films have been multi-starrer as well.
 
 
 
 
  A commercial flick like Salman Khan’s.
 
 
