Guntur: In what could be a big relief from   woes, the state government has given its green signal for taking up comprehensive drinking water schemes in 10 towns in Krishna and   districts.

 The state government has directed the municipal administration department to get the Detailed Project Reports (DPRs) ready by the end of February. The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) has already granted its in-principle clearance to fund the drinking water   and it is expected to approve the final project cost after receiving the DPRs. Nandigama, Jaggaiahpet, Tiruvuru, Pedana and Vuyyur municipalities in Krishna district and Tadepalle, Mangalagiri, Vinukonda, Macherla and Piduguralla towns in Guntur district were selected for the scheme.
 
 According to initial estimates, every town would get at least Rs 20 crore for taking up the drinking water schemes. The state has decided to revamp the existing water schemes in these towns after finding that they are unable to serve the needs of the locals. Each of these towns has a population of between 40,000-1,00,000. Sources said that all the schemes would be projected under the External Aided Projects (EAP) of the Special Package granted to the state.
 
 Sources said the state government is seriously planning to cover the comprehensive drinking water scheme in about 45 municipal towns to get maximum assistance from the Centre. As the Centre is bound to take 90 per cent cost of the projects projected under EAP under special package, the state government wanted to push as many schemes as possible through the special package.
 
 Taking the mood of the external aided agencies, which are instantly granting funds for drinking water schemes into account, the state government is planning to draw maximum number of funds to benefit more towns.
 
 Sources said that 10 towns, which were picked up for implementation of water schemes, would get at least Rs 200 crore. “We can provide drinking water connections to all households and ensure protected drinking water supply after completion of the comprehensive drinking water schemes,” municipal administration director   said.
 
 At present, not even 50 per cent of households have drinking water connections. In fact, water is being supplied just for 15-30 minutes a day due to the shortage of resources.
 
 
