PANAJI: Karnataka’s resumption of the Kalsa nullah diversion project and the subsequent blockage of the tributary’s flow is a shameful act and will have serious ecological implications for Goa, state water resources department (WRD) minister Vinod Palyekar, said.

 Speaking to reporters after a site inspection with WRD officials at  , near Goa’s border, on Saturday, Palyekar said he condemned the gross violation of the   government’s submission before the Supreme Court assuring that it would not carry out any work at the site.
 
 “Goa will not tolerate this. The Karnataka government should not stoop to such a level and should at least wait till the (final) order of the tribunal (Mhadei Water Disputes Tribunal) and do the work accordingly,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Taking cognisance of TOI's front page report, the WRD minister had on Friday dispatched a team of department officials to verify the resumption of work on the Kalsa nullah diversion project. TOI had reported on January 12 that work at the site in Kankumbi had blocked the tributary's flow towards Goa, resulting in drastically reduced water levels in the Barazan and Ladkem waterfalls that lie along its course. 
 
 Work was in progress when the minister visited the site on Saturday. "We told reporters from Karnataka that this violation of court orders was shameful," he said, adding that his party was committed to 'Goem, Goenkar and  ' (Goa, Goans and Goan identity) and would not allow this attempt at diversion till justice was delivered. 
 
 Regarding Goa's level of alertness in the matter, the minister said the state has constituted a team to monitor the scene across the border through weekly visits. 
 
 He also recalled a statement he had made earlier about the Karnataka government being 'known for saying one thing and doing something to the contrary', and said the latest attempt to resume work was proof of it. He also said the case was poised in Goa's favour.
 
 Replying to claims that chief minister  's letter to Karnataka could have prompted the latter to resume work on the Kalsa nullah diversion project, the WRD minister said the letter was not a court order and shouldn't be misconstrued. Parrikar had expressed readiness to hold talks with the Karnataka government regarding sharing of water for drinking purposes on humanitarian grounds.
 
 
