MEERUT: In a sensational case, police recovered a city boy Rupam Mittal, student of class XII, after he escaped from the boot of his kidnappers' car and alerted the police. Three youths, including mastermind Vipul Pawar, were arrested following an encounter on Sunday night.
 
  According to the police, Vipul hatched the plan after he saw 17-year-old Rupam Mittal buying two high-end   X for Rs 1 lakh each at a mobile store in Kankerkhera area in the first week of December. After he saw Rupam paying in cash, Vipul got a fair idea that the boy was from a well-off family. He hatched a plan to extort money from Rupam’s family after kidnapping him,” Man Singh Chauhan, superintendent of police (city), said.
  
  Asked how the boy got Rs 2 lakh cash to buy two high-end phones, Rupam’s family claimed that he bought just one phone while the other was bought by his friend. “I had no idea the handset is this expensive. He had borrowed some money from us to buy the phone while the rest he had saved,” Rajan Mittal, who run a cattle fodder shop and is into real estate business also, said. 
  
  The mobile store salesman and two of his aides – Vinay and Rahul – stole the car of a city-based income tax official on December 18 and gave it a makeover and also changed its registration number plate to avoid suspicion.
  
  The assailants then reached out to Rupal, with one of them posing as a girl interested in him as the latter walked into the trap.
  
  “Vipul had already procured Rupam’s contact after he registered his mobile number at the time of purchase. One of the assailants impersonated as a girl in a chat conversation with Rupam and convinced him to meet on the pretext of a date,” investigator and station house officer at Kankerkhera police station, Deepak Sharma, said.
  
  The assailants abducted Rupal on December 29 after he landed at a discreet location provided the culprits posing as a girl. They drugged the boy and locked him in the car parked in the basement of Kendriya Colony parking.
  
  They made ransom calls to the family and in the fear of getting caught tried changing their location. They also got a different sedan as Rupam could barely fit in the boot of the stolen hatchback.
  
  The boy, however, managed to unlock the boot, despite being sedated, and jumped out of the moving car. He alerted cops and the three of the culprits were caught after an encounter on the New Year eve.
  
  “The boy displayed extraordinary courage in slipped out of the moving car eventually leading to arrest of the kidnappers. We are recommending his name for bravery award,” the SP (city) said.
