BENGALURU: Furore over elusive   medals and absence of the chancellor and pro-chancellor marked the 53rd convocation of   here on Thursday.

 Varsity officials said the absence of the chancellor, governor  , and pro-chancellor, higher education minister Basavaraj Rayareddi, was unprecedented. According to the invite, Vala and Rayareddi were to distribute medals and certificates to students.
 
 
  
  
 
 The BU public relations officer later said they were told that the minister was busy with the legislature session, while the governor was occupied with the President’s visit and, hence, unable to attend the event. “This is the first time that both the chancellor and the pro-chancellor have been absent for the convocation,” he confirmed. Official sources, however, said Vala left for Ahmedabad on Wednesday evening. The governor has been having run-ins with the state government over the appointment of VCs for various universities. BU too is among the state varsities which are being helmed by an in-charge VC for some time now.
 
 Even as the event was under way, a few students turned restive over not getting gold medals. 
 
 A student who had won four gold medals and four cash prizes said: “On the website, it said that I was going to get four gold medals. But I received only one medal and seven cash prizes at the convocation. However, I was expecting this, as the same thing happened to one of my seniors last year.”
 
 “I heard that there was some issue, with some students saying they got cash prizes instead of medals,” said Rashmi B, who won several cash prizes.
 
 On Wednesday, the university had said that 112 gold medals would be distributed, but, eventually, only 79 were given away.
 
 “We have clarified this several times over the past two years, but the students were still unaware. In a few cases, the interest generated on the endowments made by the donors was not enough to cover the cost of the medal. In such cases, we have tapped into the university funds to ensure each medallist gets a cash prize of minimum Rs 500. In cases where students have won medals distributed by the university, they have received them,” said V Sudesh, vice-chancellor (in-charge) BU.
 
 Speaking earlier at the convocation, chief guest AS  , former chairman,   said: “It’s you, the youth, who will have to put in blood and sweat to ensure the country achieves its rightful place in the world, and regains the unique position it held in the past.”
 
 Kumar also spoke about the need to use technology to improve standard of living, and the need to work as a team for sustained performances. 
 
 
