LUDHIANA: The team of the National Investigating Agency ( ), Crime Bureau of Investigation (CBI), visited the city on Thursday and re-created the scene of the attack on Hindu outfit leader Amit Arora at Basti Jodhewal. 

 NIA and CBI teams, accompanied by Amit Arora and local police officials reached the spot on Wednesday morning. After inspecting the area, officials asked the hindu leader to re-create the scene. While recreating the crime-scene officials also posed as assailants. They used a motorcycle and weapon. The car of HIndu leader Amit Arora was parked exactly on the same location and same direction and crime scene was re-created
 
 After this, the official asked Arora to reach Delhi on Friday to get his statements recorded in court. Arora was produced before Patiala house of NIA court in Delhi on February 9. 
 
 Arora, who was then   Youth Wing leader, was attacked on February 3, 2016. Accompanied by his gunman and workers, he was having soup at a stall in Basti Jodhewal chowk at the time. The bullet grazed his neck and he sustained a minor injury. Initially, Jodhewal police registered a case of attempt to murder against the unidentified accused. Later, when the police failed to solve the case, they framed Arora, his gunman, worker and others for stage-managing the attack to get more security cover. The police also claimed Arora got the injury on his neck using a hot iron rod (sariyia). 
 
 Shiva Sena expelled Arora after the controversy and he later joined Shiv Sena, Hind. Recently, when Punjab police arrested Ramandeep Singh and Hardeep Singh Shera in cases of  , the accused confessed to have opened fire at Arora, but he survived. The confession raised questions on the Punjab police investigation. 
 
 Now that all cases of targeted killings have been handed over to the NIA, police have started thorough investigation in all cases, including that of the attack on Amit Arora. 
 
 Arora said, “The NIA and CBI called me to the crime spot at Basti Jodhewal Chowk. There they inspected the crime spot and got the crime scene re-created. Now I have been asked to come Delhi for statement.”
 
 Exact scene 
 
 Amit Arora left his factory in Upkar Nagar to reach Basti Jodhewal to have soup. Arora was driving his   Captiva came while his gunman Om Prakash was seated on front seat and his worker Mani was in rear seat. While Arora and Om Prakash were inside the car, Mani went out to get soup. Soon after the soup was delivered, bike borne assailants stopped near the car and fired at Arora from his window pane which was down. The assailants fled towards Samrala Chowk and injured Arora was rushed to hospital. The bullet just grazed through his neck and he escaped.
 
 Arora demands more security after heated argument with accused shooters in court. Speaking to TOI Amit Arora shared that On Wednesday during the case hearing in NIA court Mohali the accused shooters Ramandeep Singh and Shera argued with him in court premises. He alleged, "Shera and Ramandeep were staring at me in court moreover Shera said that I was lucky enough to escape in attack. I replied them and we got indulge in argument." 
 
 Arora added, "I have met DGP Punjab Suresh Arora for more security but to no avail." 
 
 
