CHANDIGARH: Prime Minister   unveiled the 135km Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal (KGP) Expressway, which is is expected to cut down travelling time between the two Haryana towns from four hours to 72 minutes, at Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday. 

 Also known as the Eastern Peripheral Expressway, the highway — built at a cost of Rs 11,000 crore in a record 500 days— is the first in India to have controlled access. A controlled-access highway is one which is especially designed for high-speed traffic. 
 
 The PM first inaugurated the highway in Uttar Pradesh and then arrived in Sonipat on a helicopter at 11.30am. As he landed at the KGP helipad in Sonipat,   was welcomed by chief minister Manohar Lal, urban local bodies minister Kavita Jain, and member of Parliament Ramesh Kaushik. Union minister for road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari accompanied the PM. In Sonipat, Modi inaugurated a digital gallery at the KGP Expressway’s toll plaza.
 
 Union ministry of road transport and highways secretary Yudhvir Singh Malik informed the PM that rainwater-harvesting systems had been installed after every 500 metres on the highway and that all lights on the high-speed road were powered by solar energy. “
 
 He added that there were eight solar plants on the expressway, each having a capacity of 4MW. The state-of-the-art road has an auto-challan system for speeding, as cameras will capture the speed of vehicles. Also, a motorist will only be charged for the distance travelled. 
 
 The expressway also has an iconic toll plaza at the entry point on the Kundli side. It is equipped with smart and intelligent highway traffic management system (HTMS) and video-incident detection system (VIDS) and is environment-friendly with world-class safety features and smart/ interactive infrastructure. 
 
 The foundation stone of the greenfield project was laid by Modi on November 5, 2015. About 2.5 lakh trees have been planted alongside the expressways, including transplant of 8-10-year-old trees with drip irrigation system for plantation. It has consumed 11 lakh tonnes of cement and one lakh tonnes of steel. 
 
 Gadkari said the project had generated employment opportunities of about 50 lakh man-days and 9,375 workers were deployed here. 
 
 The six-lane expressway has 406 structures. Of these, four are major bridges, 46 minor bridges, three flyovers, seven inter-changes, 221 underpasses, and eight railway overbridges (ROBs). The project earlier faced resistance from farmers over land and other issues which have since been solved by giving higher compensation. 
 
 The Supreme Court had on May 10 directed the NHAI to throw open the Eastern Peripheral Expressway for the public by May 31, asking why were they “waiting” for its inauguration by the Prime Minister. The apex court had said if the 135km expressway was not inaugurated on or before May 31, it should be thrown open for public who were facing traffic congestion in Delhi. 
 
 The Eastern and the Western Peripheral Expressways were planned in 2006, following the apex court’s order to build a ring road outside the national capital for channelling the traffic not bound for Delhi.
 
 The highway passes through six parliamentary constituencies — Sonipat, Baghpat, Gaziabad, Noida, Faridabad and Palwal.
 
 
