THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Recipients will have to pay a user fee of Rs 2 lakh to   ( ) in live, unrelated organ donations from Wednesday, besides Rs 1.5 lakh as compensation to the donor.

 
 The compensation to the donor, to be used for his/her future health needs, will be paid in three instalments of Rs 50,000 each while Rs 2 lakh will be kept as a corpus fund under KNOS for future treatment of both recipients and donors.
 
 “Thousands of live, unrelated organ donations are happening in the state and there is no package for the donor. The new decision will help the donor,” said Dr Noble Gracious, nodal officer, KNOS.
 
 Govt fixes package to ensure welfare of organ donors
 
 From today, the recipient of live, unrelated organ donation will have to pay a user fee of Rs 2 lakh to Kerala Network of Organ Sharing (KNOS) while also providing Rs 1.5 lakh as compensation to the donor.
 
 
 The compensation given to the donor will be used to take care of his/ her future health needs and the treatment the donor must carry out after organ donation. This sum will be paid in three instalments of Rs 50,000 each. The sum of Rs 2 lakh will be kept as a corpus fund under KNOS. The government is planning to utilize this fund for future treatment of both recipients and donors.
 
 “Thousands of live, unrelated organ donations are happening in the state and there is no package to take care of the donor. The government decision will help the donor,” KNOS, nodal officer, Dr Noble Gracious.
 
 Minister for health   said the new order was issued by following all the guidelines of organ donation. “The decision has been taken to help the donor who is often neglected after organ donation,” said the minister.
 
 At the same time, the government is willing to reconsider the decision of bringing down the user fee. “Often, donors are neglected and there is no system to create a registry with their names. There is no attempt to provide free treatment to the donor who will be having health concerns after organ donation. Hence, the new decision will ensure the safety and protection of donors,” said Dr Gracious.
 
