AHMEDABAD: In a state which is largely arid and experiences hot weather for long periods, it is only natural for the inhabitants to innovate and find solutions to an overall lack of water. With a monsoon-window that stays open for barely three months of the year, the only way to ensure adequate water supply through the year — since historical times — has been via a series of tanks, ponds, artificial lakes and significantly, stepwells.

 
  As observed previously in Dholavira and Lothal, it was channelling water into tanks that helped create and manage medium to large cities in the Harappan age. That enabled the community to have a reservoir of water for bathing, drinking and irrigation. In later, smaller settlements, stepwells — or vavs, as they are popularly called in our state — played pretty much the same role, especially for domestic usage. Today, Rani ki   in   has been recognized as a Unesco World Heritage site. While celebrating this as a great achievement for the state, it would be a good idea to acknowledge that the stepwell at Patan is the high point of a stepwell-development process than began centuries earlier and in a humbler manner.
 
  
  In Junagadh,  , in the fort called Uparkot there are two wells, each distinct in its style and design. They represent an early phase of vav-development. The basic form of a stepwell was when an underground aquifer was identified — possibly by a water diviner — and a vertical shaft dug till water was found, forming a well. As a next step, to make it easier for women to reach the water, a horizontal path was created towards the main well-shaft. In the wet season, water used to come up almost to the brim of the shaft and the beginning of the path. In the dry season, women would have to often walk the entire length of the path to draw water from the well itself. Over time, the paths made way for steps and the vavs became increasingly elaborate.
 
 The vavs inside Uparkot fort, though, are more basic in nature. The Adi Kadi Vav, visually the more striking of the two, conforms to the pattern described above, except that it has no embellishment whatsoever. The narrow, sloping path to the main shaft has been carved straight out of rock, with rock strata visible on both sides. The deeper ones goes, the more humid the air. Unfortunately, the well-water is not as clean as it should have been, with visitors throwing their refuse in. The same visitors who now live in a water-starved state seem to have no respect for this ancient innovation.
 
 The other vav is a shade more elaborate in design. Called the Navghan Kuo, the well is part natural. Going in through a narrow entrance, visitors find themselves unexpectedly in a large, airy forecourt of sorts. After the oppressive heat of the surface level, it feels cool within. A side wall has several niches, home now to a flock of pigeons. One can imagine the former royals retreating to this cool place on days when the heat outside became unbearable. Beyond the forecourt is a massive well-shaft. In its heyday, the well is said to have had enough water to ensure the fort withstood a siege.
 
 There is a lack of clarity on the exact dating of the two wells. According to some historians, the Navghan Kuo could be the earliest example of a stepwell in this region. Some scholars date it to the period between the 2nd and 4th centuries, others to the 6th-7th century period. A third set believes the well to have been built under the patronage of Ra Navghan and completed by his son Ra Khengar in the 11th century. Given that the Uparkot site has been inhabited from the Mauryan era, it is entirely possible that a basic well may have existed from the earliest period mentioned. After all, just a few hundred metres away is a Buddhist cave complex that is mentioned as being 2,000 years old. Did the monks draw water from this well for their use?
 
 The Adi Kadi Vav too has its own stories and legends. While historians hold that it was built in the second half of the 10th century by   rulers, a popular local story dates it to the 15th century. The story also says that when the well-shaft was dug, no water emerged and the patron-ruler was told to sacrifice two unmarried girls to please the water gods. Locals believe that Adi and Kadi were the two unfortunate girls duly sacrificed. The waters flowed forth and continue till today. 
 
 
