S Annathurai has been cultivating cotton for the past 10 years on his four-acre patch in Sithali, a nondescript village in   district. But this year he is sceptical. "No one could even imagine the trouble we underwent because of cotton. I don’t know if I would ever grow cotton again,’’ the farmer says.

 The sprawling cotton fields of Perambalur, with specks of white sprouts, look enticing, but for 18-year-old Loganathan, they were a death trap. Hospitalised after inhaling toxic pesiticides he sprayed on the cotton plants last year, he shudders at the near death experience he underwent.
 
 Annathurai and Perambalur are survivors of the   that claimed at least nine Bt cotton farmers, leaving many hospitalised in Perambalur and   districts between October and December last year. Government sources, however, peg the number of deceased at two. Even though it’s been more than a month since the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) sought an ‘action taken’ report from the state government in this regard, the latter is yet to respond on the same. 
 
 In October last year, Annathurai was rushed to the hospital after developing nausea, diarrhoea and dizziness one morning. He was treated for days. Only after getting discharged, he learned that R Raja, his neighbour, who was also a Bt cotton farmer had died. The reason: Over exposure to pesticides. A scared Annathurai once again rushed to the government hospital at Kunnam and got himself thoroughly checked. "The day before I fell sick I was spraying pesticide in my cotton field. I was told that the pesticide was the culprit. This has not happened in the past," he said.
 
 Annathurai considers himself fortunate to live for another harvest. But his fellow farmers R Raja and S Selvam were not. The two died in October. Human rights activists who visited the villages on a fact finding mission say seven more people died and several dozen have been hospitalised since then in Perambalur and adjoining Ariyalur districts due to constant exposure to pesticides.
 
 V M Parthasarathy of Safe Food Alliance says the government response was too little and too late to stem the problem in the beginning, pointing to the state government's silence on the NHRC report. Senior officials in Perambalur and those in state agriculture department, however, say that they were not aware of any such notice.
 
 "But we have held a series of awareness meetings for farmers. We have also recommended relief for the two deceased cotton farmers," said Perambalur collector V Shantha.
 
 Joint director of Agriculture R Sudarshan said the department reached out to nearly 1,000 cotton farmers across the district, through 15 awareness programmes between December 2017 and January 2018. 
 
 Agriculture department officials said farmers should have nipped off the cotton crops at the early stage (when they were up to the hip level) instead of letting them to grow beyond five feet. Farmers were more exposed to pesticides while spraying them on tall plants as they had to raise their hands to do it and in turn inhaled more fumes. 
 
 Activists, decry the government’s attitude of blaming farmers instead of helping them out. "When we went on a fact finding mission, we found the government machinery was apathetic and insensitive. Rather than addressing the problem, the government apparatus is blaming the farmers," said Parthasarathy. 
 
 Others demand a ban on select pesticides. "Punjab has banned monocrotophos, the key pesticide used by Perambalur farmers. There is no reason why Tamil Nadu government cannot issue similar orders," said Saravanan from People’s Union for Civil Liberties, a member of the fact finding team.
 
 "It is clear that pests and crop diseases are the result of the so-called modern agriculture, new age seeds and cropping," says Swaminathan of Kuranganni Cotton Growers Group, which promotes traditional cotton variety as against Bt cotton.
 
 (With inputs from S Deepak Karthik)
 
 Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com
 
 
