Share prices of Reliance Communications Limited surged by 6.24 per cent, trading at Rs 28.95 a piece reducing its loss in December end quarter by nearly 95 per cent.

 The huge telecommunications company narrowed its loss to Rs 130 crore in the December quarter, which was about Rs 2,712 crore three months earlier and as much as Rs 531 crore a year earlier, when the company exited its loss-making wireless business. 
 
 The overall revenue of the company came down by 30 per cent from a year earlier to Rs 1,176 crore. As noted in the previous quarter, RCom had posted revenue of Rs 1,152 crore. 
 
 In 2017, the company shut its 2G and 3G wireless business and later Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Jio Infocomm agreed to almost all of its wireless assets, including the tower, spectrum, fiber and media convergence for under Rs 24,000 crore. 
 
 RCom stated revenue from its new business portfolio grew 2.1 per cent sequentially to Rs 1,176 crore. 
 
 This portfolio comprises mainly its enterprise business, internet data centers, global submarine cable network and international long distance voice with 40,000 global and Indian customers. Profit after tax for this portfolio was Rs 27 crore, an increase of 28.6 per cent when compared to the earlier quarter.
 
 However, Fitch Ratings - an international rating agency - downgraded Global Cloud Xchange Limited's (GCX), a subsidiary of Rcom, long-term foreign and local-currency issuer default ratings (IDR) to 'CCC' from 'B-'. 
 
 The rating firm has also gone down on GCX's 350 million dollar 7 per cent senior secured notes due in 2019 to 'B' owing to excessive refinancing risk around due to uncertain trading conditions and fall-out from the default and break-up of its 100 per cent parent Reliance Communications (RCom), Fitch said in a statement . The secured notes were given a recovery rating of 'RR2', from 'B+'. 
 
 Fitch further said that the notes are rated two notches higher than GCX's issuer default ratings because of superior recoveries, between 71 per cent-90 per cent on senior secured notes. 
 
 It had incurred a debt of more than Rs 45,000 crore and the promoters managed to avoid the possibility of giving up the control to banks under a strategic debt restructuring programme late last month with the sale of assets to Jio. After the sale to Jio, RCom exited the debt recast process.
 
