JAIPUR: In a major embarrassment for the   government, it has come to light that the case charged by Rajasthan police against Vishwa Hindu Parishad ( ) leader   had been withdrawn three years ago by the state government.

 The state police had gone to Ahmedabad on Monday to arrest Togadia in a case charged against him and 16 others in 2002 for violating Section 144 of the CrPC. The bureaucratic blunder saw the order withdrawing charges against the VHP leader never reaching the court which went on hearing the case and issued multiple summons.
 
 The bungling was revealed on Tuesday after Togadia held a press conference in Ahmedabad accusing the Rajasthan police of planning to kill him in an encounter.
 
 The state government has reportedly pulled up the district police and administration for failing to act on its order issued three years ago. After the issue became a national controversy, the police and district officials went through mounts of paper and found that they had been pursuing a case that has already been withdrawn by the government.
 
 Inspector general of Bhartpur range   said the state government had withdrawn the case and a letter was issued to district officials on June 9, 2015.
 
 “The letter was communicated to district officials. But somehow it did not reach the court concerned. It’s the responsibility of the prosecution to inform the court that the case has been withdrawn by the government,” Vashishtha told TOI, adding that there must have been some ‘communication gap’ between the collector, prosecution officer and the SP.
 
 Togadia and 16 others were booked by the Sawai Madhopur police for violating Section 144 of the CrPC which was imposed in   area.
 
 Though the police had filed a final report (FR) in the 2003 case citing mistakes in facts, the then   City sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) had moved a complaint in the court against the VHP leader and 16 others.
 
 The court took cognizance of the complaint and issued numerous summons to Togadia. However, in 2015, after the   government came to power, the case was withdrawn after one of the accused pleaded that he was a social activist.
 
 According to sources, after receiving the letter, the district collector should have directed the public prosecutor to inform the court that the state government has decided to withdraw the case. “A major blunder has happened in this case. The letter crossed their tables, but they did not act,” said a senior police official.
 
 Sawai Madhopur collector Kailash Chand Verma said the letter was addressed to the superintendent of police (SP) and the person should have acted on it. SP Maman Singh Yadav claimed they were probing as to how the directions were not implemented.
 
 Meanwhile, additional SP Gangapur city Yogendra Faujdar said the court would be informed about the incident during the next hearing. “We will move the application for requisition, but it’s up to the court to agree to it or not,” he said.
 
 
