Vijayawada: Auto drivers harassing passengers and collecting exorbitant fare at railway and bus stations has become a routine affair in Vijayawada.

 Passengers at the railway station and the Pandit Nehru Bus Station face a tough time on their last mile travel, as unruly auto drivers literally snatch luggage from their hands.
 
 What makes the problem acute is prepaid auto stands set up by the city traffic police are as good as useless. 
 
 The Vijayawada railway junction is one of the busiest in South India, with around 160 trains passing through every day. For the auto drivers, the lakhs of passengers arriving at the station, are just opportunities to make money illegally.
 
 Majority drivers collect more than Rs 40 per kilometre, which is in violation of rules. N Sambasiva Rao, a passenger, said: “We are afraid of coming out of the Vijayawada railway station. We are annoyed by the behaviour of auto drivers, grab luggage from our hands. Auto drivers, who work in groups, demand Rs 100 for dropping you at Gandhi Nagar, which is just 2 kilometres away.” 
 
 The situation worse at night, when auto drivers demand more than double the tariff prescribed by the city traffic police. P Manjusha, a techie, said: “We have had a lot of bitter experiences at PN Bus Station. Auto drivers demanded Rs 250 for a ride to at Madhura Nagar. Once, our bus reached the station at 2 am, and the auto driver did not even allow us to bargain with other drivers.”
 
 The number of passengers using prepaid auto stands has decreased drastically from the time they were opened. B Satish Babu, a techie from Hyderabad, said, “Prepaid auto stands have failed to serve their purpose. Auto drivers obstruct passengers from going to these auto stands by threatening them and saying it will cost them more. We cannot find police officers at the prepaid auto stand at PNBS on Monday afternoon.”
 
 The Vijayawada city police say they have received a number of complaints against auto drivers. Joint commissioner of police Kanti Rana Tata told TOI that they are focussing on streamlining prepaid auto stands.
 
  He said additional deputy commissioner Ram Prasad is working on revision of auto fares
 
 .
 
 
