Hyderabad: The Telangana government is gunning for doubling the size of the lifesciences ecosystem in Telangana to US$100 billion in the next 10 years to generate employment for 4 lakh people thanks to initiatives like the upcoming Hyderabad Pharma City and the country's largest Medical Devices Park, Telangana IT & industries minister K Taraka Rama Rao said here on Thursday.

 Currently the entire lifesciences ecosystem, comprising the pharmaceutial and biotech sectors is pegged at $50 billion with over 800 companies present in the state, KTR said at the inaugural of the 15th edition of the BioAsia2018 summit that kicked off in the city on Thursday on the theme `Right Time, Right Now'. Over 1,500 delegates from 55 countries are participating in the three-day event.
 
 He also told the gathering that even as the government is working on the Hyderabad Pharma City and the Medical Devices Park, the state government is also expanding the Genome Valley cluster, which is spread across 600 square kilometers (sqkm) and houses over 200 lifesciences players like Novartis, USP, DuPont, Ashland and Lonza with around 10,000 scientific and technical workforce, and will be immediately initiating formulation of an integrated masterplan for the cluster to mark the beginning of Genome Valley 2.0.
 
 KTR said towards this end the state government has already accorded Genome Valley with the Industrial Area Local Authority (IALA) status, which will enable single point administration of the cluster by providing Genome Valley companies a single point contact for all government related approvals and further facilitating infrastructure development in the cluster. "IALA will be a game changer for the Genome Valley lifesciences cluster and herald a new era of development," he said.
 
 According to him, the state government is also working very closely with government of India to accelerate the establishment of the country’s largest animal resources facility, which will amplify benefits to lifesciences companies, accelerate development and significantly reduce the time-to-market for new drugs.
 
 As part of the state government's committment to ensure that at least one new vaccine is launched by companies based in the state every year, the government is mulling setting up first of its kind incubator focused on vaccine development in Genome Valley. 
 
 "We are also keen to establish an institute focused on emerging areas like immunotherapy, personalized medicine and nanomedicine. For this, we will work with our local institutes and industries, the government of India and other global organizations," he said. Pharma and Biotech are priority areas at the Telangana Academy for Skills and Knowledge (TASK) and will now focus on designing more courses tailormade for the lifesciences industry, he added.
 
 Talking about the Lifesciences Infrastructure Fund that was announced last year, he said the fund will start making investments in 2018 and aims to create lifesciences assets worth at least Rs 3000 crore in the next two-three years.
 
 BOX:
 
 The Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) on Thursday inked an MoU with Central Spectrum Sdn Bhd, the master developer of Selangor Bio Bay, a mixed development project located in Pulau Indah in the Malaysian state of Selangor. As part of the MoU, TSIIC and CSSB will cooperate and collaborate with each other to support the promotion and facilitation of research in the field of life sciences, biotechnology, healthcare and medical devices.
 
 
