Madurai: Of late, city residents have been getting virtually hoodwinked by the delayed break of dawn — many wait and wait for the sun to come out but that doesn’t happen until 7. Experts say this is because atmospheric aerosols have been preventing sunlight from reaching the ground early.

 T Saradha, 46, of   says she has had to forego her morning walks throughout January as it was dark even at 6.30 a.m and going for a walk beyond that would upset her work schedule. ``I found this winter very different and the day dawned only at 7 a.m, which disrupted my daily routine,’’ she said. This has been the concern of many morning walkers in the city. 
 
 Chairman, School of Energy, Madurai Kamaraj University, Dr  , said that atmospheric aerosols emitted from natural and anthropogenic sources were responsible for the uncertainty in the climate system, resulting in poor air quality, degradation of visibility and consequent impact on human health. 
 
 Atmospheric aerosols are particles suspended in the atmosphere that vary in size distribution, shape, total column content and composition. Aerosols play an important role in determining the earth’s radiation and its impact on climate variability by the scattering and absorption of incoming solar energy. Carbonaceous particulate differ from most common atmospheric aerosols as they predominantly absorb, rather than scatter, visible light. 
 
 He said that black carbon concentration in Madurai was measured for a period of two years between May 2015 and May 2017 and its characteristics studied using aethalometer. 
 
 The effect of wind in dispersion of BC aerosols inside the atmospheric boundary was taken into account and the visibility nature inside the city studied. Thirtyone important locations in Madurai city, including Goripalayam, Palanganatham, Kaalavasal, Nagamalai Pudukottai, Simmakkal, Keelavasal were taken up for the study. 
 
 It was found that visibility increased with the decrease in BC concentration during the months of June, July and August with high wind speed and decreased in the months of November, December and January. 
 
 This also resulted in dawn being delayed as the BC particles reflected the light before  .
 
 
