NEW DELHI: The assembly on Tuesday directed the Delhi government to formulate strict guidelines for execution of work under   local area development funds and also fix timelines for civic bodies to complete the projects. Any violation will be treated as contempt and breach of privilege of the assembly. 

 The move followed two-day discussions where the BJP-led corporations came under fire from the AAP MLAs who alleged that the civic bodies were intentionally delaying projects. For several development work, such as construction of roads in colonies, development of parks and streetlighting, MLAs are dependent on civic bodies for preparation of estimates and award of tenders and the final execution of projects. The MLAs alleged that, due to political reasons, the civic bodies often delayed work. 
 
 A resolution moved by AAP MLA   sought to fix strict timelines for the civic bodies. The corporations will have to submit estimates for work within 21 working days. If some other elected representative, such as a councillor or an MP, has already planned similar work at the same place, the civic body concerned will have to inform the MLA within seven days.
 
 According to the resolution, the Delhi government's urban development department will release the necessary money from MLA LAD funds to the executing agency within 14 working days. The civic bodies will invite tenders within 30 days from the receipt of funds and award the work within 14 days after the bids are finalised. The work must be executed within 90 days.
 
 In case of any delay, the executive engineer concerned will inform the MLA and also explain reasons for the same. 
 
 Meanwhile, the four opposition members were evicted from the House when they trooped to the well after their demand for a discussion on the water situation was not considered. Though the matter was listed for discussion, it couldn't be taken up for a long time, which sparked protests from the BJP members. The House was initially adjourned for 20 minutes. The BJP MLAs kept up the pressure after proceedings resumed, following which they were marshalled out. Leader of opposition   later sought the resignation of chief minister   for failing to resolve the water "crisis". 
 
 In another development, deputy CM   announced that the Delhi government will give Rs 14 lakh to   who won Gold in table tennis at the Commonwealth Games as well as Rs 10 lakh to the silver medallists and Rs 6 lakh for the bronze medallists. 
 
  The budget session of the assembly, the longest in 23 years, came to an end on Tuesday even as some MLAs demanded a further extension. Discussions on the National Medical Council Bill and the   report on the Airport Express Line could not be taken up. 
 
 
