The online registration process for admission into LKG in private schools for the academic year 2018 has begun, with over 5,900 seats available in Karumbalai, Melavasal, Subramaniapuram and Sellur.

 This year 460 private schools come under the purview of the   act, offering is 5,910 seats while many parents have already started approaching the office of the Inspector of   in Tallakulam to register. 
 
 The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, makes it mandatory to reserve 25 per cent seats in entry-level classes to children belonging to the disadvantaged group/weaker sections. Children from such groups who reside within 1km and 3km from the school are eligible for admission in primary and upper classes respectively under this quota.
 
 "I live in   and want to enrol my child in one the city’s most elite schools which is just less than a kilometre away from my home. I hope my daughter gets a seat because it has been my dream to see my children study in a really big school and speak good English,’’ said Rani, who had come to the IMS office.
 
 Children’s education is a big burden for families in the lower economic sections of the society, like sanitary workers who have only menial jobs to meet ends. "I will work as much as I can to ensure that my child gets a good education to become a teacher or lawyer in the future," said Thenmozhi of Melavasaal.
 
 Many private schools, like the one in Villapuram has put up a sign board to announce that seats under RTE are available and that applications are invited. "Last year we had nine seats and there were not many takers. I also had parents who shifted their home so that they could try for a seat in a bigger school,’’ said the correspondent of the school. 
 
 P Tamil Pandian, an activist who has been crusading for the cause, said that the school in   is one institute which has been following the rule for admissions in letter and spirit. They collect all the applications and transfer it from one box to another reading out all the applications. A child from the crowd is selected to pick out the names of the lucky candidates. People are happy just to know that their child’s application is considered," he said.
 
 Sources at the office of Inspector of Matriculation Schools said that they did the best to ensure that all the schools complied and admitted under privileged students but it is not always possible. In many cases, the managements of the schools reach a compromise with the parents and made them pay a partial fee or otherwise admitted children of their choice.
 
 
