Satish Chandra Arora gets nervous every time he steps out of his flat inside a housing society. The 79-year-old can’t avoid taking the elevator, but every time he does so, memories of the January 9 experience make him shaky.

 Arora and his wife Achla were returning from the basement parking to their ground-floor flat along with their daughter Neha that day.
 
 Just as Neha had just pushed her mother’s wheelchair out of the lift, the door closed, and the elevator began moving upwards with Arora still inside. In panic, the septuagenarian pressed all the buttons, even shouted. The lift moved in fits between floors. “Those few minutes were pure horror. I just did not know what to do,” he recalls.
 
 As multiple buttons had been pressed at the same time, it took a while for Neha to bring the lift back to the ground floor from the 12th and escort her father, who is blind, safely out and back to their flat. The Aroras are residents of   in Sector 77, Noida.
 
 Arora’s experience is just one of many challenges people with disabilities have to face every day. “Those few moments of horror” that Arora speaks of raise a pertinent question: how equipped are buildings we use every day, particularly our homes, to cater to the needs of those like Arora?
 
 It doesn’t take much to make an apartment, a bank or a mall disabled-friendly. Braille buttons in lifts, Braille guides, railings, short staircases and a smooth walkway, to name a few.
 
 “Not just apartments, access for the disabled is a major issue anywhere in the urban space, be it markets, malls or public offices,” said Neha, who runs Planet Abled, an agency that organises tours for the disabled.
 
 The   today has hundreds of large housing societies but there are very few that can be called “universally accessible”. Visits to a number of societies and malls in Gurugram and Noida revealed most of them were not equipped to allow a person with   move from one floor to another all by himself.
 
 So, what do they do? As TV professional Himanshu Bhai Mehta, who uses a wheelchair, puts it: “If you ask me what I do about accessing space that has no accessible architecture, the answer is simple: I don’t.”
 
 Activists said real estate developers should take a cue from Metro stations while building apartments, malls and offices. In addition to the Braille switches and guides, they suggest builders should ensure benches or chairs are set up at regular intervals for people who are infirm to rest.
 
 “As a disability activist, I have been stressing this subject for long,” says Nidhi Goyal, founder of Rising Flames, an NGO. “It is easier for the disabled to travel around the world than accessing some areas of their own apartment or the local market or the nearby bank. Starting with roads, walkways or access points to buildings, we simply do not pay attention any of these while planning our architecture. We have to move towards a ‘universal access’ to our buildings and roads so that not only people with disability but even senior citizens and children can move around freely.”
 
 Goyal’s emphasis on “universal access” and the lack of it in our apartments and malls indicates though the modern designs have gone ahead to include swimming pools, clubs, gyms and other facilities to ensure a healthy lifestyle for residents, layout plans have made little headway — from at least a decade ago — in catering to basic needs of the disabled.
 
 “As a person using a wheelchair, I face major problems finding disabled-friendly washrooms anywhere I go. None of the banks has facilities to offer access to disabled customers. Metro stations have lifts, but not all. The apartments have nothing. A few public spaces are moving towards  , but that’s not enough,” said Rahul Rawal (34), a Delhi resident.
 
 Developers insisted making their projects disabled-friendly had become an inherent part of their designs. 
 
 “We have recently engaged a consultant to make   Mall of India entirely disabled-friendly. We have introduced Braille on lift switch panels, wheelchairs and ramps. More will be done with time. We are also trying to provide employment opportunities to the differently-abled,” said Shibli Khan, head of mall operations, DLF.
 
 Asked how far were developers from making buildings that were universally accessible, Amit Modi, the vice-president of   and the MD of ABA Corp, said: “Most buildings should be constructed keeping universal access in mind. At  , our apartments, we have based our design on accessibility. All the lifts have Braille and talkback facility. The floors are announced on the speaker. Railings in the lifts are provided for additional support.”
 
 
