PATNA: Hundreds of school and college students,   (NCC) members, police personnel and district administration officials participated in a rally to create awareness among people on road safety as part of the Road Safety Week on Monday. The rally, flagged off by Patna DM  , started from Kargil Chowk near   and culminated at Golghar. 

 The volunteers put up traffic signs near Gandhi Maidan and pulled down the illegal hoardings. The DM said during the Road Safety Week, the administration will put up new signage near schools, colleges and hospitals. “The administration will also conduct a training programme for truck drivers in collaboration with the traffic police. During Monday’s rally, the volunteers urged the motorists as well as pedestrians to follow traffic rules,” Ravi said, adding schools were asked to install speed governors in their buses and vans.
 
 The district administration and the state education department jointly conducted painting and slogan writing competitions in government and government-aided schools on the theme ‘Sadak suraksha-jeevan raksha’. Private schools in city also organised debate and extempore competitions to promote road safety.
 
 The transport department launched a vehicle checking drive across the state as part of the road safety programme. More than 1,000 two-wheeler riders were caught without helmets. Similarly, 200 people were found not using seat belts in car. “The violators were offered roses by children. They were also counselled by traffic police and district transport officers,” said transport secretary  .
 
 In a bid to create awareness on road safety,   conducted a special training programme in government and government-aided schools.
 
 Students of Magadh Mahila College, St Xavier’s High School and Bankipore Girl’s High School promoted the road safety measures through street plays outside their campuses. Cycle rallies were also organised as part of the drive.
 
  officials conducted training sessions on road safety in 20 government schools situated near highways. 
 
 
