Do not cure your pet with pills and injection; understand their body condition and check their diet, says 35-year-old Belgian  ,  . Juliet, mother of three girls, married to Jean Francois, trade commissioner,  , Chennai, moved with her family to Chennai last year along with their two Border Collies, 13-year-old Illy and three-year-old Bandit. Today, Juliet is known for her   treatment like acupuncture, and combination of Indian folk medicine to treat animals in and around the city.

 
 
 “My grandparents were farmers and my parents taught us to respect and preserve the ecosystem. As a 14-year-old, I often used to volunteer in the clinics of veterinary doctors and surgeons. I was given small jobs like holding animals and cleaning their cages. Later, I decided to take up Veterinary Studies at the University of Liege, Belgium. Today, I have a diploma in Allopathic Veterinary,” shares Juliet.
 
 
 
 “I once saw a dog being brought into a clinic; it was stiff and in acute pain. When it walked out of the acupuncture clinic, it had the energy of a young puppy. This amazed me, and I started researching on all the systems of medicine, be it homeopathy, Chinese medicine, acupuncture, naturopathy or food sciences,” says Juliet. She called acupuncturist Dr Emiel VandenBosch, one of the founding fathers of Veterinary Acupuncture in Europe, who also started the International Veterinary Acupuncture Society (IVAS) for certified courses in Belgium; and the Belgian Veterinary Acupuncture Society (BEVAS) in 1990. Juliet went on to study Chinese medicine under him.
 
 
 
 A world tour for nearly four years with her husband was enlightening – the more she travelled, the more she gathered knowledge about native and indigenous healing systems throughout the world. “The world tour was primarily to help protect endangered species in their natural habitats and to work with local communities to protect their ecosystems. I had the chance to work in remote areas and with locals who understood their terrain rather well. It became very clear to me that everywhere in the world, ancient traditional medical practices are being followed.”
 
 
 
 
 “I don’t have to convince people about Chinese medicine because it is some 5,000 years old, but so are Ayurveda, Unani or Siddha treatments. India is so interesting and rich, with such deep roots in folk medicine… it saddens me to see the majority of population blindly looking up to western culture and medicines. And what surprises me more is that when an Indian talks about folk medicine, no one believes him or her, but when a white-skinned vet comes from a foreign country and talks about locally available herbal treatments that have been in existence for centuries, they not only listen to them, but also believe them.”
 
 
 
 
 What a pet eats depends on the kind of species it belongs to and it’s based on that that the ratio of protein, calcium, carbohydrates and other vitamins are worked out. “After a personal examination and understanding their deficiency, studying the history of how they were born, we can plan their diet. The food should be as simple as possible — the best is organic. We can also feed raw meat, but it won’t suit every animal. Never feed your dog going by what’s written on the net. Food is medicine, but people don’t see it that way,” says Juliet. Pet owners should also understand the emotional stress animals go through, and they also should keep the surroundings clean for them to live in, she adds.
 
 
 
 
 Whenever Juliet goes to treat an animal, she spends 45 minutes during the first session with the animal and the owner to observe, examine and understand the illness. “I ask a lot of questions: is the dog drinking enough water, does it get a good night’s sleep, is it aggressive, does it like warm or cold temperature, etc. These questions are basic for me, but not for an ordinary vet, who just finishes his work in fifteen minutes of examination followed by prescribing some pills and injection. The first step is palpating the animal; since they don’t talk our language, palpating helps us to get an idea of their body,” says Juliet, who brings Chinese herbs from Belgium. “In our country, we source the herbs from a few recognised reliable sources in China we have been working with for years. It’s not that the herbs are not available in India, I haven’t found a reliable source yet, and I don’t want to experiment with my medicines and compromise on the quality. But when I run out of stock, I go with local herbs like neem leaves, garlic, jaggery, turmeric, alovera, etc, that are easily available here.”
 
 
 
 
 Most of us love foreign dog breeds because they look cuter. “Most rich clients, who bring their dogs to me, own foreign breeds like Labradors. The problem is, these dogs are not accustomed to this climate and face health issues. Without understanding their health conditions, the owner starts to feed what’s not right for their body and then, they make them reproduce. These dogs can’t cope with all this change, and that’s the reason they frequently fall sick. This leads to behavioural changes in them, they turn aggressive and disobedient, and then the owner starts beating them. This is not how one takes care of a dog,” says Juliet, and adds, “When it comes to strays, we don’t need to have a house for them, but we can do small things like feeding them, giving them water and if possible, medical care. Even cows, considered sacred in India, are seen roaming on the streets in search of water and food near garbage bins. This is unfair!”
 
 Juliet is more than happy to help vets who are interested to learn more about this course and she can be reached at decaestecker.juliet@
  
 
 -Purnima.Sah@timesgroup.com 
