KOLKATA: The Centre’s move to initiate appointment proceedings of three judges in   is unlikely to end the lawyers’ ceasework, which has disrupted the HC’s functioning since February 19.

 On Monday, a day before the Calcutta High Court Bar Association’s general body meeting, the Bar Library Club decided to continue with the cease-work till March 13. 
 
 Senior Bar Association members, who met informally on Monday morning, also pressed for the cease-work.
 
 Former state advocate general and barrister Jayanta Mitra, also the Bar Library Club president, said: “The minimum bench strength of the   should be 50% of its sanctioned strength of 72 judges. For more than two years, the court is functioning without a permanent chief justice and there is no representation from Calcutta HC in the Supreme Court. The Centre must immediately address these issues.”
 
 Senior Bar Association members and office-bearers too met during the day to decide on the cease-work move. According to sources, senior lawyers like Sekhar Basu, Milon Mukherjee, Amjad Ali and state advocate-general Kishore Dutta said they should also accept the Bar Library resolution. Bar Association president Uttam Majumdar said, “The exercise today was aimed at asking for suggestions from senior members from the Bar. The final decision will be taken only during the Bar’s general body meeting on Tuesday. The resolution already taken by the Bar Library Club has been received and will be presented at the general body meeting.”
 
 Senior lawyers, requesting anonymity ahead of the general body meeting, said, successive apex court collegium recommendation — such as the recommendation to elevate acting Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya as the chief justice — are going unheeded. “On December 4, the collegium recommended the names five members of the Bar to be elevated as HC judges. The Centre has acted on only three of those names. After the retirement of Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose from the Supreme Court, Calcutta HC has been left with no representation in the apex court,” said a senior lawyer. Another senior lawyer said, “The issue that a continued cease-work may affect the litigants was also discussed. Because this is also public service. But someone must flag these pressing issues.”
 
 “We wanted to meet Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on this. However, his department has failed to show the basic courtesy to even acknowledge our request. We have been told that similar lawyers stirs are on in Odhisa, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka high courts,” a senior lawyer said.
 
 
