KOCHI: A report of the chief surveyor, endorsed by district collector, pointed out that Ro-Ro and boat services can’t operate simultaneously in   sector as there were chances of accidents. Unscientific design of the jetties is said to be the reason that led to the stoppage of services.

 
 Chief surveyor of the ports department inspected the Ro-Ro vessels on May 2 and issued a letter to the corporation and district collector detailing the measures that need to be taken before Ro-Ro services begin. “There are two jetties (one for passenger ferry and another for Ro-Ro vessel) which are situated close to each other at Vypeen. There is high chance of accident if both arrive at their terminals at the same time. So, the owner/operator should prepare a risk assessment to avoid both services reaching Vypeen at the same time,” said the report by the chief surveyor.
 
 “Master (first class master or driver) should take extra care when Ro-Ro ferry berths at Vypeen and   jetties. The effect of tides and traffic should be considered,” the report reads.
 
 It also stressed on the need to give proper training to the crew of the Ro-Ro boat before starting regular services. The report also pinpointed 15 items that must be ensured by the corporation or Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation ( ) before starting regular services.
 
 According to the opposition councillors, the construction of jetties at Fort Kochi and Vypeen was conducted in an unscientific manner without proper studies. “We had already raised the issue several times at council meetings. The jetties were not constructed in a scientific manner. The chief surveyors report now augments our arguments,” said  , opposition leader, corporation.
 
 “It is a fact that two Ro-Ro vessels also can’t be operated at the same time,” he said.
 
 Deputy mayor TJ Vinod said that the issues would be solved once the Ro-Ro services resumes. “The priority is to resume Ro-Ro service. Later, we will find ways to conduct both Ro-Ro and boat services simultaneously,” Vinod said.
 
 “KSINC is conducting trial run and we expect that Ro-Ro services can be restored after May 8 or 9. Training has been given to three drivers so far,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, opposition is planning to start a mass agitation if authorities fail to start Ro-Ro services after May 8. The mayor is learnt to have lodged complaint against LDF councillors following Saturday’s ruckus.
 
 LDF councillors submitted a complaint to city police commissioner MP   demanding action against police and UDF councillors who allegedly attacked them. The UDF staged a march to corporation office on Monday to protest LDF attack on mayor. On Tuesday, LDF will stage a march to protest assault on LDF councillors by police and UDF.
 
