Chennai: Close to two years after the   increased the   amount for freed bonded labourers, at least 1,500 workers in   continue to wait for this benefit to start life afresh.

 In May 2016, the ministry of labour and employment revamped a Centre-sponsored scheme for rehabilitation of bonded labourers and increased financial assistance for them from Rs 20,000 to Rs 1 lakh per adult male, and Rs 2 lakh for children. However, disbursal of this amount has been delayed due to poor awareness among officials and protracted court proceeding.
 
 Under the scheme, the Centre will bear the burden of finiancial rehabilitation assistance fully. However, data accessed by TOI shows that of the 1,500 labourers rescued since the new scheme was introduced, no labourer has been given the full compensation. At least 170 cases are pending in various district courts. 
 
 K Krishnan, executive director of Adivasi Solidarity Council, said even the initial relief amount is disbursed only in some cases. “Under the scheme, they get an initial amount of Rs 20,000, and the balance is given after a district magistrate is convinced they were bonded labourers,” he said. While in some districts like Salem, Namakkal and Erode, awareness among officials on the new scheme is high, in districts close to Chennai – Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram and Tiruvannamali – freed labourers continue to be given a measly Rs 1,000, Krishnan added.
 
 According to a report by the ministry of labour and employment, 66,573 bonded labourers have been released in the state — the highest in the country.
 
 Kural Amuthan, director (community partnership), International Justice Mission, who works on the rescue and rehabilitation of bonded labourers, said it isn’t just poor awareness that is impeding implementation of the scheme. “There are a lot of technical issues too. Under the new scheme, the money is sent directly to their bank accounts. Most of them don’t have identity cards to start an account,” Amuthan said. “The entire process takes anywhere between one month and eight months. They have to shuttle between departments for paperwork and then to the court,” he added. For a person who has not stepped beyond the walls of bondage, the process can be overwhelming. 
 
 For some, like S Velu, who was rescued from a brick kiln in Vellore in 2016, the prospect of returning to bondage seems brighter. “That is the only life I knew,” said the 43-year-old. He had started working at the age of 12 with his father who had taken a loan of Rs 7,000. “We weren’t allowed to go out. When the rice mill we were working in closed down, we were sold,” said Velu, who has three children. The family received Rs 5,000 as relief amount. “They promised us a better life, a free life. But we are caged again, this time by court walls, waiting for our compensation,” he said.
 
 A senior official in the state labour department said an action plan has already been rolled out to tackle  , which includes appointment of a state-level officer and a committee to oversee implementation of various laws. “We know there is a delay in payment. We can’t forgo the process as we have to be certain the money goes to eligible beneficiaries. What we can do is to expedite the process,” he said. Officials are also in the process of undertaking a survey on the extent of this “neo-slavery” in the state and maintaining a database. This is the first time since 1995 that the government is backing such an enumeration.
 
 
