BENGALURU: Hundreds of athletes, many of them doing little to shore up India’s fortunes at major quadrennial multi-sport events seem to have pushed the   ( ) into making it tougher for them to don the Indian colours.

 
 
 In a first, the IOA has now issued a circular to all national sports federations to ensure that they pick the best squad, without leaving any room for criticism, for the   scheduled from August 18 to September 2 at Jakarta, Indonesia.
 
 In a communication sent by secretary general   last week, IOA said in the case of individual events, the athletes selected by the Federation should have met the standard of the sixth place finisher at the 2014 Incheon Asian Games.
 
 “While the sixth place standard will be mandatory for competing in the individual events, the teams should have been in the top 8 of the last Games to make the grade and keep the same quality at present,” sources told TOI. “Even if the teams or athletes meet the guidelines or rankings currently that would be enough.”
 
 
 
 If the IOA sticks to its guns, then the participation of the Indian handball and football teams is in doubt. “The football and handball teams are nowhere near this mark. The focus will also be on the basketball teams,” they said.
 
 At Incheon, the Indian men’s basketball team finished last in the preliminary round. Competing in Group E, India lost to Iran and Philippines. In the end, they finished joint ninth along with Chinese Taipei, Jordan and Kuwait. The women’s team fared better and ended sixth among 10 teams.
 
 The Indian men’s football team, currently 15th in Asia, had a disappointing outing as it finished 26th among 29 teams which took part. The men’s handball team ended 14th and last while the women’s team was second last among nine teams.
 
 The IOA officials are expected to reiterate their stand during their meeting with federation officials in the next meeting of the preparation committee on May 31. “The meeting has been called to discuss the team size, medal prospects, details of preparation and selection trials amongst others,” sources said.
 
 In a recent meeting, the   had asked IOA to inform all federations that they may intimate IOA, the date and criteria decided for selecting athletes. “The federations have also been asked to upload these details on their website at least two weeks before the date of the selection,” sources added.
 
 The IOA’s latest initiative is in line with the sports ministry order issued in 2015. The ministry had then asked the IOA to formulate the guidelines and ensure that only eligible candidates were included in the contingent even if they are participating at no cost to the government.
 
 The last date for submitting entry by name for the Jakarta Games is June 30.
 
 
