GURGAON: Brisk winds are likely to limit   and improve air quality in the city over the next few days and the current chilly spell will continue.

 On Tuesday, Gurgaon recorded the season’s coldest   at 4°C for the second time after January 6. Officials said the minimum temperature will rise slightly later in the week on account of an approaching  , although no rainfall is expected in NCR.
 
 Officials of the meteorological department said there has been a change in the   direction as well, which will contribute to the rise in mercury. “Whenever a western disturbance approaches, temperatures start to rise,” an official explained. “But the rise will be very slight. We recorded a low of 4°C last week and again on Tuesday, but hope to see 7-8°C later this week.”
 
 Officials said that for the next 4-5 days, weather is expected to remain stable, with the brisk winds and shallow fog expected to stay. Visibility is also going to improve. The minimum temperature is expected to hover between 7-8°C, though after the western disturbance system passes over, temperatures should again start to plunge.
 
 However, on Tuesday, the chill ensured that AQI remained in the very poor category at 355, while the average PM2.5 was 199.86 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3). 
 
 “Currently, we’re experiencing a strong wind, which shouldn’t let particulate matter stay in the air. As a result, the fog is expected to get lighter. Last week, Gurgaon and parts of NCR reeled under dense fog, with visibility falling to as low as 100-150m during the morning hours. For the next couple of days, there will only be moderate fog, and we will see an improvement in visibility.”
 
 Wind speed in Gurgaon hovered between 7km/hr and 12km/hr on Tuesday, while visibility stayed at around 1,000-1,200m.
 
 Officials said the western disturbance is not expected to affect weather activity in the NCR for the next 4-5 days, while it’s effect is felt only over Jammu and Kashmir.
 
  “We’re not going to see any rains in the city because of this western disturbance. It won’t affect us at all. It will only trigger a slight rise in temperatures, before they plunge again. Even if temperature drops to 4°C again, it won’t be anything unusual. We witness that during every winter. Although, if there is rainfall, we could see a significant dip,” an official said.
 
 
