PUNE: More Puneites will be heading for a long vacation this summer. Tour companies in the city have reported about 40-50% increase in the bookings to international and domestic destinations in the April-May this year when compared to the same period last year. Popular among the vacationers are off-beat destinations in Africa, Israel, Europe and Southeast Asia along with hidden gems in the country.

 Nikhil Thakurdas, the owner of Odyssey Tours and Travels, said there is likely to be nearly 50% increase in summer vacation travel from Pune this year. “Offbeat destinations like Israel, Jordon and Vietnam are doing particularly well, while destinations in Europe are chosen for ‘active holidays’ that involve cycling trips, walking and trekking tours etc. Kenya, South Africa and Bali also are very popular among families,” said Thakurdas, adding that his firm has already booked holidays for almost 200 travellers, and the number is going to rise. “Parents whose children have summer holidays in April and May have started planning. Those who have vacations in June, will be planning their trips by March-end,” said Thakurdas.
 
 Another city-based travel firm claims it has made bookings for close to 50,000 people to various destinations, including exotic ones. Bookings for the summer vacation season began almost five to six months ago as the airfares are expected to surge for this period.
 
 Harshada Dholepatil, the owner of Kingston Travels, said, “Most of our clients are heading to Langkawi in Malaysia. We are promoting various off-beat destinations this year, such as Greece, Turkey and Eastern Europe. Within the country, travellers are going to Kasol in Himachal Pradesh.”
 
 Zelam Chaubal, director of  , said the firm has seen a 30% increase in bookings this summer. “Earlier, Europe meant Italy, Switzerland, Paris and London. Now, tourists are increasingly asking for Central Europe and Baltic states,” said Chaubal.
 
 Santosh Gupta of   said many are heading to Nathu La in Sikkim. “Families with children are heading to Hong Kong and Macau for Disneyland,” he added.
 
 Mehboob Shaikh, treasurer of the Travel Agents Association of India, Pune, and director of Travel Elect Private Limited, said Europe is a favourite because “the summers there are conducive to Indian sensibilities.”
 
 
