BENGALURU: In the true spirit of  , candidates are taking the online route to dole out cash to voters, and setting Jan-Dhan accounts jingling. Half now, half after you vote." That's the promise of the candidates who have been neatly hoodwinking hawk-eyed poll officials by transferring money to voters through the online route, reports Manu Aiyappa.

 Trusted lieutenants of candidates collect voters' bank account details and mobile numbers. Later, they call and take a pledge from them to vote for a particular candidate in lieu of Rs 2,000. The first instalment of Rs 1,000 is transferred to the account immediately, and the second is promised after May 12. 
 
 Provided, of course, the candidate wins. Sources in the know said that the candidate does not transfer the money from his personal account but from the accounts of their trusted workers or businessman, giving no room for any suspicion. "Since the fund transfer is in thousands, the income-tax department doesn't spot it,'' said a businessman from Basavanagudi. 
 
 The direct benefit transfer or DBT scheme introduced by the Centre for various subsidized welfare schemes, seems to have found a new purpose. “The direct cash transfer scheme will not only buy votes but also ensure voter loyalty,” said a trusted aide of a   candidate in Bengaluru.
 
 A waiter at a popular bar and restaurant in   was surprised when his bank account was suddenly credited with Rs 1,000, but soon he realized that his parents had shared his account and phone details with supporters of a   candidate.
 
 There is a ‘family DBT scheme’ too. Chand Pasha (name changed), a resident of Yelahanka, received Rs 5,000, reportedly from a candidate, for his family of five voters.
 
 The candidate does not transfer the money from his personal account but from the accounts of their trusted workers or businessman, giving no room for any suspicion. “Since the transfer is in thousands, the IT department doesn’t spot it,’’ said a businessman from Basavangudi.
 
 Though the Election Commission is keeping a tab on bank accounts, such transfers are taking place blatantly, thanks to digital gateway payment mobile apps. “It’s hard to prove that the money was deposited to buy votes,” a poll observer appointed by the   to monitor such cases said.
 
 What has added currency to this ‘direct cash transfer scheme’ is that almost everyone, rural areas included, holds a bank account, thanks to the Jan-Dhan scheme of the Centre.
 
 EC officials claim that they are keeping a strict watch on every transaction taking place with the help of banks, but they still cannot be foolproof. “We too have been receiving such complaints and have increased vigil, though are yet to figure out how to keep track of mobile app payments,” said chief electoral officer Sanjiv Kumar.
 
