JAIPUR: State universities are gaining notoriety for not utilizing funds received from various funding agencies.

 Nine state universities, including Rajasthan University, MLS University and Jai Narain Vyas University, have spent less than 40% of funds received by them in the 2017-18 financial year, according to documents.
 
 Funding agencies like  , DOT, AICTE and the state government provide grants for projects, research and infrastructure development.
 
  
 While funds allocated to   were Rs 26.11 crore in 2017-18, it managed to utilize only Rs 10.44 crore. “Of the total amount, funds that were granted stood at Rs 18.27 crore,” say documents.
 
 It means that close to Rs 8 crore has been lying unspent in the university coffers. The most shocking figure comes from   which has failed to spend a single penny of the Rs 17.20 crore allocated to it in the present academic session. A UGC source says that universities utilizing funds between 75% and 90% are considered good performers while those below it are listed as poor performing units. The funds of most of the universities are likely to lapse on March 31. The failure to utilize funds is a setback for research work carried out by students, scholars and teachers.
 
 Taking note of the poor performance in utilizing funds, Governor Kalyan Singh had directed all universities to submit its report to the office. It is learnt that the governor has been monitoring the funding part of universities for the past one year. Sources said that Singh has expressed his displeasure to many universities over the poor utilization of funds.
 
 Experts point out that the foremost reason is poor coordination between the finance and academic departments. Drawing funds and getting approvals from the finance department of the university is always an uphill task. Many a time it takes the receiver months to draw the first installment for his/her project. As per rules, unless the fund utilization certificate is received from the finance department and submitted to the funding agency, the next installment will not be released.
 
 “Here comes the role of financial autonomy which the academicians have been long pursuing. I have faced problems in getting approval for airfare of internationally reputed academicians. Imagine the upper limit of Rs 500 per lecture irrespective of your experience. These have forced us not to hold the programme, letting the funds to lapse,” said Rajiv Gupta, former head of the sociology department. A highly qualified teacher at RU had requested the state government to reduce funds allocated for the a project citing lack of other resources to utilize the amount. The vision, willingness and competency of departments or individuals also matter in utilizing funds effectively.
 
 
