NAGPUR:   has decided to undertake   only on Wednesday from now on. It has asked agencies like MahaMetro to do excavation work only during these shutdowns. 

 TOI in its edition dated May 22 had highlighted the problems caused to citizens due to power shutdowns on almost every day of the week.
 
 MSEDCL earlier used to undertake planned shutdowns only on Wednesday. They lasted from 7am to 4pm even though the actual shutdown hours were usually less. Some days ago, the state run power company decided to restrict the shutdowns till 11am in view of high temperatures during the day. Simultaneously it decided to go for shutdown on almost every day of the week.
 
 TOI in its report had pointed out that its franchisee SNDL was also restricting shutdowns till 11am and undertaking its maintenance work only on Wednesday.
 
 A MSEDCL official said that shutdowns on multiple days of the week were required as many times maintenance work could not be completed by 11am. “In view of the public opinion, we will complete our work between 7am and 11am on Wednesday,” he said.
 
 Navin Uttam, a resident of Dhantoli, welcomed the development. “You are mentally prepared for shutdowns on Wednesday as this has been taking place since years. However, shutdowns on other days throw life out of gear. I am happy over MSEDCL’s decision to not go for shutdowns on other days of the week,” he said.
 
 Amit Parlewar, a resident of Bajaj Nagar, said that MSEDCL should take some steps to stop trippings. “It is good that shutdowns would be restricted to Wednesdays but the maintenance work should be done properly. Even though the duration is not much but breakdowns during the afternoon cause great inconvenience. I have young kids and they suffer a lot when there is no electricity. Inverters and generators are too costly and I can’t afford them,” he said.
 
 Shachi Mukherjee, a resident of Madhav Nagar, demanded that there should be no shutdowns. “We had stayed in Mumbai for five years. There are no shutdowns there. Why should consumers of Nagpur suffer? After all we are paying our bills honestly,” she said.
 
 
