MADURAI: The city corporation is drawing severe criticism from traders and hoteliers after it asked them to pay a solid waste management fee to get their dangerous and offensive (D and O) licences renewed.

 Many termed the move unfair and asked the authorities to grant them more time to pay the amount. S P Jeyaprakasam, president of  , said that the user fee for solid waste management was totally unexpected. 
 
 “We told the commissioner that it was unfair that a shop covering an area of 10 square feet or less has to pay the same amount as the bigger shops. We are asked to pay Rs 200 per month for garbage collection,’’ he said.
 
 “We are ready to pay a fee for garbage collection because keeping our city clean is also a priority, but it should not be such an amount as this,’’ he said. The corporation has asked the traders to pay the fee as an annual fee, hence even petty shops would have to cough up Rs 2,400, he said. “Petty shops are small establishments run by husbands and wives. For them, Rs 2400 is a big amount,’’ he said.
 
 “This is apart from the property tax, water tax and sewage tax we are supposed to pay,” he said. “Corporation sources told us that the only way in which we could reduce the charges was to give the self-declaration that ours was a tea stall and pay just Rs 1,200 at the rate of Rs 100 per month, but this is not acceptable.’’
 
 Meanwhile,  , president of  , said that property tax on houses was set more reasonably than that on trading establishments.   said that traders rarely threw garbage on the road, and that they were making all efforts to keep their premises and surroundings clean. “We do not litter, but it is the plastic bags that are causing a menace in most parts of the city. The authorities should take steps to stop the production of the banned plastic bags used by various roadside vendors,’’ he said.
 
 Small food producing units, like pappads, sarbath and other condiments were asked to pay the garbage clearance fee of Rs 5000 per month and Rs 60,000 yearly.
 
 Madurai district hotel owners’ association president   said that the user fee of Rs 72,000 per year on hotels is too high. “We pay Rs 4500 per year for garbage collection. But they now say that hotels generating up to three tonnes of waste a day and will have to pay Rs 6,000 a month. None of the hotels in Madurai generate more than 100 kilograms,'' he said.
 
 
