Amritsar: To appease local body minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, newly-elected mayor of Amritsar Karamjit Singh Rintu went to the minister’s house on Tuesday and drove him to the Amritsar Municipal Corporation office.

 Last week, expressing his resentment with state Congress high command for not taking him into confidence while picking the mayoral candidates, Sidhu had boycotted Amritsar Municipal Corporation’s general house meeting on January 23, to elect its 8th Mayor. As many as 15 of Sidhu’s loyalist councillors had also boycotted the meeting. They had even refused to take oath that day.
 
 On Tuesday, Rintu arrived at Sidhu’s home at around 10.30am, exchanged pleasantries with him. After seeking the minister’s “blessings”, the mayor took Sidhu to his office.
 
 Responding to Rintu’s gesture, Sidhu not only assured his support to the mayor in development of Amritsar but also sanctioned Rs 9 crore for a cleanliness drive in the city.
 
 “Every member of municipal corporation, mayor and commissioner are like my family members and we all will work together for the development of the city,” Sidhu said while talking to TOI. He said that he would himself kick-start the cleanliness drive in the city on Wednesday from the houses of safaisewak’s. The cleanliness drive would be regularly monitored and he would ensure that there was no dearth of funds for the purpose, the minister added.
 
 Meanwhile, the 15 Congress councilors, who had boycotted the mayoral election but later went to Jalandhar to take oath in the office of divisional commissioner on January 25, submitted their replies to district Congress president Jugal Kishore Sharma. They were issued a show cause notice and warned of disciplinary action.
 
 Sharma said that he had received the councillors written replies and forwarded the same to Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, who would take the final call.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said that the councillors had regretted boycotting the mayoral election due to some ‘misunderstanding’ and have pledged to follow the Congress policies in future.
 
 
