There’s something ironic about Meghna Malik’s exit from the TV show, 'Laado —  '. It was the first season of the show — 'Na Aana Is  ' (2009) — that catapulted the actress to national fame and made her synonymous with the character of  . Yet, in the ongoing season, she is no longer a part of the show after completing two months on it. Ever since this news surfaced, several reports — from her insecurity about co-actors to her unprofessional behaviour of refusing to shoot her death sequence — have been cropping up. In an exclusive chat with BT, Meghna rubbishes the rumours. Read on...

 
 The actress, whose character is dead on the show, says, “I have never tried to clear my position before. However, I have been forced to do so now, as it concerns Laado 2 and Ammaji. I have made more news off screen than on it. As far as the rumour of me quitting the show is concerned, I would say that  , Ammaji and Laado... are inseparable and synonymous with one another. I was accused of being insecure. Well, insecurity is a toilet paper I shove up my a*** every day since I came to Mumbai from a small town. People also said that I was not ready to shoot my death sequence and creating problems for the producer by not reporting on the set. The truth is, I was hospitalised following a severe viral infection and bedridden for six days. The producers knew of my condition. I don’t know what pleasure people get by maligning my image, which has been built on the basis of my work. I have survived in the industry for 19 long years because of my professionalism. How can I quit a show, in which my character is going to die? I can’t continue to shoot after the character’s death, right? My association with the show has ended.” 
 Ask her if she knew about her character’s short track when she signed on the dotted line and she replies, “I wasn’t told. Saara sansaar zaroorat ke niyam par chalta hai. Hamein samajh jaana chahiye ki jab tak aapki zaroorat hai, aapki value tabhi tak hai. Our industry is not an exception to this rule. You will be at peace if you accept this fact. So, nothing shocks me on television. However, when your journey is cut short, your logistics are affected, as you have given up on other work to focus on a particular project. So, an artiste needs to be clever enough to work out her logistics and be intelligent in her dealings. Aap har tarah se andhe nahi ho sakte.”
 
 
 Meghna says that she holds nothing against the makers of the show. “The writers are paramount and I don’t contest their vision. In my journey so far, I have had many experiences of stories getting twisted. My character has been different in the second season of the show. The first season had Ammaji as a powerful woman of action. In season two, she was supposed to be a torchbearer and inspiration for women. However, as her journey ends, she has become a submissive, docile and silent spectator. But then, that’s how she has been perceived by the writer. My job is to give my best in the given scenario,” she explains.
 Point out how the current season has failed to recreate the magic of the previous one and the actress replies, “Mujhe toh pehle wale ka bhi (ratings) nahi pata tha. Jis din main TRP ko dekhkar kaam karne lagi, uss din meri maut hai. Art is business in today’s time, but it’s not my money that’s riding on a show. I am just grateful to have been offered Ammaji’s role. I wasn’t arrogant about being called back to reprise the role. In fact, I had apprehensions of being able to recreate the magic, as one can’t take the audience for granted.”
 
 
 Of late, several seasoned actors have complained about makers compromising with quality in a bid to generate more ratings, thus giving them substandard roles. 
 Meghna reasons, “It will be wrong on our part to expect our due from television. Back in the day, content was supreme as ratings weren’t the governing factor. However, in today’s scenario, the ratings are both our God and monster. As an actor, I don’t work for the ratings. I’ll give my best till the last scene, even if my role has to end. An actor has to find conviction in what she is doing, no matter how illogical it is. A show is made for the audience, woh sukhi toh sab sukhi. I don’t disappoint my audience as they are my Bhagwan. I know that even if my character is axed, I will live on in their hearts forever.”
 In an industry where out of sight often means out of mind, Meghna is secure about her space. She took up only two fiction shows — Gustakh Dil and   — in between the two seasons of Laado... “It takes a lot of courage and I won’t advise it to everyone. They should be smart enough to talk about their remuneration and constantly work on themselves when not shooting,” she says, adding, “I was busy doing theatre during that time. I am open to films, too. I respect TV as the medium that has made me whatever I am today. Television is currently in a confused space. They are trying to experiment, but they don’t know what the audience likes and whom they have to cater to. I feel it is a dying media unless the content is changed for the younger generation, because they are spoilt for choice.” 
 While Meghna is candid about her professional life, her personal life has been an enigma to many, since she has never spoken about matters concerning the heart. Ask her if she is in a relationship and pat comes the reply, “All I can say is, shaayad koi kahin mere liye hain. As of now, I am very much single. Probably, men don’t find me vulnerable enough (laughs).”
 
