NASHIK: Secretary of water conservation and employment guarantee scheme   hailed the efforts of the villagers in   taluka who were looking for water conservation measures to make the villages tanker-free. 

 Dawle was at Sinnar to inaugurate the de-silting works in Konambe, Thangaon and Bhojapur minor irrigation tanks, where he lauded the works taken up by the local administration with the help of people's participation and a non-governmental organisation (NGO). "It is heartening to see that villagers, who once demanded tankers, are now joining hands for water conservation to ensure their villages are tanker free," he said. 
 
 The excavation of soil from the water reservoirs under the 'desilting' programme has got a big boost in the drought-prone Sinnar, Yeola, Nandgaon and   talukas in the district with   supporting the same. 
 
 Under the 'Gaal Mukta Dharan' and ' ', the government has planned to remove the silt from the water reservoirs and give it to the farmers for free who can use the mineral rich content in their farms. It will reduce their dependency on fertilizers and increase storage of water resources. The Trust has decided to support the programme by providing machinery for earth excavation. 
 
 Desilting in reservoirs has begun at Sinnar where Yuva Mitra, a local ngo, has joined hands with Tata Trust to provide manpower to pull out the silt from the dams and take it to farms. The government will bear the charges of earth movers deployed in the tanks. The trust has provided earth movers in Sinnar.
 
 "The drought-prone Sinnar taluka will benefit immensely from the programme. In all, 720 million cubic feet (mcft) of water will be effectively stored in the reservoirs after 20.4 lakh cubic metres of silt is removed from five storages," said Sagar Shinde, superintendent engineer, minor irrigation department (MID) of the water conservation department. He added the work will be carried out in the next two months. 
 
 The government will only provide the fuel costs for the earth movers functioning at the water reservoirs at the rate of Rs 11 per cubic meter of soil unearthed. The measurement will be recorded and the payments will be made accordingly to the trust. The trust and the Yuva Mitra will provide vehicles for moving the silt. 
 
 Similar exercise will also be carried out in Malegaon, Nandgaon and Yeola soon. In all, 44.3 lakh cubic meters of silt is expected to be removed creating a storage capacity of 2,033 million cubic feet of water in the four talukas.
 
 
