GURUGRAM: The   on Monday issued notices to several illegal meat stores in the city, asking them to shut shops within two days. Notices were served on traders involved in alleged “illegal sale” of meat in Narsinghpur, Mohammadpur Jharsa, Khandsa, Sector-46, Sector-39 among several other places in the city, an MCG spokesperson said.

 To comply with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s directions, all illegal meat traders were asked to shut down their shops or vends within two days, otherwise the corporation will take action against them, the spokesperson said.
 
 The issue of illegal   was brought up in the grievance committee meeting chaired by the chief minister last Saturday, when he had assured that no illegal meat shops would function in Gurugram, and would be shut down. “We have given them time. If they don’t comply with the order, an appropriate action will be taken against them,” said  , medical officer, MCG.
 
 The CM had also told officials on Saturday that municipal corporations were free to decide on once-a-week closure of meat shops and could unanimously pass a resolution. The matter was raised by a nominated member of the grievance committee. The MCG has given licences to 129 meat shops, which are valid till March 31. The licences will be renewed from April 1.
 
 The CM had said the number of licences should not be increased. An official said this instruction pertains to shops selling mutton and chicken where slaughter is done. “We don’t want more roadside meat stores, most of which operate in unhygienic condition and may also pose health hazards to citizens,” a senior MCG official said, adding that the corporation would take action to check unauthorised slaughter and sale of meat. The state government made it mandatory for meat shops to get licence to operate in May 2017. MCG has been giving licences to meat stores since then. In last six months, 60 shops operating without licences were sealed.
 
 On January 7, meat stores were shut in a similar drive in Rajiv Chowk, Kadarpur and Basai areas also.
 
 A meat seller in Sector 45, who didn’t want to reveal his identity, said, “We have been doing this business for around 20 years, and now the government’s decision to regulate issuance of licences will force us to take up alternative professions. Whenever we approach MCG seeking licences, they deny and say that the government has issued orders against it. What are we supposed to do now?” he said.
 
 Pritam Singh, president of meat sellers’ association in Jacobpura where a number of meat shops were shut down last year following a ceiling drive, said the sellers were forced to work as daily wage labourers. “We had agreed to maintain prescribed standards of cleanliness and were willing to abide by rules, but the government still didn’t budge,” he said.
 
 
