CHANDIGARH: Outgoing mayor Asha   said on Wednesday that she rebelled against her party and filed as an independent candidate for the mayoral election here because the  , in Davesh  , chose a candidate who had always been against the saffron party.

 Jaswal termed the party’s selection of mayor candidate as “wrong” and said she would not withdraw her candidature. “A majority of councillors of the party were not liking   for the mayor’s post. But the party decided on him,” she said.
 
 When Jaswal and party councillor Ravi Kant Sharma, who too is contesting as an independent for the post, went to file their nomination papers on Wednesday, they were accompanied by six councillors, including former mayor Arun Sood and deputy mayor candidate Vinod Aggarwal — all said to be close to the party’s city unit president, Sanjay  . “The party selected a person who always spoke against it; I have all proofs which I have submitted to senior leaders. He did not support us during crucial times and supported   in the Selvel scam. He even spoke in the middle of the budgetary session during my tenure; he doesn’t respect the party,” Jaswal said, while speaking to TOI.
 
 A member in BJP’s national women body, Jaswal said they would have accepted any name except that of Moudgil. “But former city MP   had only one name on his mind. Therefore, I was left with no option, but to file nomination paper as an independent candidate. I am firm not to withdraw my papers at any cost, because my decision is purely in party’s favour. My step is only for the BJP; it gave me everything and now I cannot see it selecting such a candidate,” Jaswal added. 
 
 When asked, Moudgil remained mum on the allegation. “I am a committed soldier of the party and I have a huge amount of respect for all my seniors and collegues in the party. I don’t want to make any comment on the issue, as I always respect the decision of the high command,” he said.
 
 Sources in the BJP revealed that one group of the BJP would visit New Delhi in a day or two to talk to senior party leaders on the issue of selection of the mayoral candidate.
 
 
 
 
