CHANDIGARH: The ambitious project of conversion of existing overhead lines to the underground system and replacement of infrastructure in Sector 8 is yet to see the light of the day.

 The UT electricity department has failed to hire a firm for implementation of the project despite floating tenders. As per official records, the department has already floated tenders three times but did not emerge successful. The department has, so far, received applications from eight firms. However, all failed to clear the technical evaluation stage. The department is now all set to float another tender.
 
  ( ) accorded approval for capital expenditure of Rs 17.89 crore for the project on pilot basis. The department picked Sector 8, as the existing infrastructure is about five decades old and frequently breaks down, especially during peak summer season.
 
 The department is of the view that the scheme would help in bringing down the distribution losses and outages. With the augmentation of power distribution system, the load growth of next five years will be regulated.
 
 The department caters to 2.15 lakh consumers. In last few years, the city residents have been facing frequent power breakdowns during the peak summer season due to ageing infrastructure, overloading of transformers, and consumers not declaring actual load. This has also led to high transmission and distribution (T&D) losses.
 
 At present, the department just has one 220KV sub-station. In addition, there are five 33 KV sub-stations and thirteen 66 KV sub-stations in different parts of the city. As per norms, each sub-station has a life span of 25 years and around six 66 KV sub-stations are over that time span.
 
 Chandigarh administration is also in the process of implementing the smart grid project under the National Smart Grid Mission (NSGM) at a cost of Rs 28.58 crore. Administration will contribute 70%, while 30% of the total cost of the project will be borne by  .
 
 The smart grid project would facilitate efficient, accurate and effective online recording and monitoring of the energy exchange in the distribution system. The system will also help in bringing down the transmission and distribution losses, timely rising of bills, better load management, online energy audit to overcome power theft, reduction in operational errors and tamper and alarm monitoring.
 
 The power department has picked sub-division number 5 (Industrial Area) comprising urban, rural and commercial consumers for implementing the project in the first phase.
 
 
