AHMEDABAD: The RSS-affiliated farmers’ union,   (BKS), on Wednesday filed a   in the   against the   for farmers who want to obtain crop loans. BKS has sought the high court’s directions for quashing clause 2 of the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) and Restructured Weather Based Crop Insurance Scheme (RWBCIS), which makes it mandatory for farmers to obtain crop insurance policies when they seek credit from any financial institution.

 A bench of Chief Justice R S Reddy and Justice V M Pancholi asked the government lawyer to inquire with the authorities concerned and inform the court about the government’s stand on the provision that makes crop insurance policy compulsory for taking loan from banks. Further hearing is posted on April 25. The petitioner says that the compulsion on farmers to pay a premium for insurance policy is “financial exploitation”.
 
 The PIL contended that farmers mortgage their farms when they obtain loan from banks or private finance companies. Thus, the crop loans that farmers get are already secured and hence there is no need to insert a clause for   and that too at undecided premium rates. This shows that the scheme is not in the interests of farmers, the petitioner said.
 
 The petitioner cited news reports stating that till date more than Rs 1,000 crore has been paid to three insurance companies towards premium for crop loans. However, the insurance companies do not respond when farmers claim insurance money for crop failure. A couple of such instances that allegedly took place during floods last year were cited, when even surveyors also did not reach the areas for damage assessment after farmers claimed insurance money.
 
 The PIL contends that insurance policy is a contract between the insured and insurer, but under PMFBY, no contract was signed and no policy was issued to farmers. Farmers do not even know about specifications with regard to crops and coverage. No field surveys were conducted at the time of issuing the insurance policy. The PIL sought the government’s intervention when farmers lay claim to insurance amount. It also sought clarity on the contribution by the state government and the Centre to the premium amount.
 
 
