VADODARA: Residents of   in Tandalja seem to be running out of patience over their resettlement. A bitter clash took place in the area during a meeting to discuss the future course of action as work is yet to begin on the site where their dwellings once stood.

 The civic body had razed 1,428 houses and 75 shops in July, 2017, at Sahakarnagar. The site was to be developed on a public-private partnership (PPP) with residences for those who lost their homes coming up on a part of it and the developer retaining the remaining part to develop it.
 
 But the project got stuck when it came to light that a pond exists on the plot where the dwellings once stood. The supposed waterbody is around 4,000 square meters in surface area and is more like a large pit filled with sludge. But located in the centre of the site, it made progress difficult. Also, an order of the   high court has given strict directives to conserve water bodies.
 
 The end result is that no development took place on the site apart from that of clearing the debris that were left behind after the razing drive. The residents of the slums here are being paid a rent of Rs 2,000 per family so far.
 
 A meeting was called by local residents to discuss the issue on Wednesday night. A major reason was the fact that many families were finding the Rs 2,000 rent insufficient. When a group was discussing the issue, another group came there and created a commotion stating there was no sign of getting their houses yet. Sources said that they even blamed some local leaders regarding the situation.
 
 The situation snowballed into a melee with people exchanging blows. Some even threw stones during the confrontation. The police was called and reached the spot to bring the situation under control. An offence was registered against 17 persons regarding the incident. The accused were arrested on Thursday and were subsequently granted bail.
 
 Times View: Residents of Sahakarnagar had cooperated with the   and ensured that no untoward incident took place during the demolition drive there. Since 10 months they have been patiently waiting for the work on the housing scheme where they will be rehabilitated. The issue of the waterbody is in the court of the state government and needs to be settled soon. If the uncertainty continues, it may keep taking ugly turns.
 
 
