KOZHIKODE: The   government is committed to take strict action against all offending official inconsiderate of their rank, said Chief Minister   while addressing the public convention of the   at Nalanda auditorium, here, on Sunday.

 
 Corruption has started creeping into the force with the change in the responsibility of the force, the chief minister pointed out seeking the vigil of the members of the force against corruption. “Fire Force was a corruption free force till recently as they were involved only in rescue activities. The situation has changed and proper interventions are required to end the negative trends in the department,” the chief minister said. With the change in time, the type of mishaps and accidents have also changed and people largely depend on the fire force, said the Chief Minister. Apart from the commitment and excellence of the members of the force, intensive training they are imparted also help them ensure timely and effective intervention in times of accidents, he added. The chief minister also stressed the need for preparing civil volunteers for to speed up rescue activities. The civil volunteers on getting proper training will be able to assist the Force and also carry out rescue operation in the absence of fire force personnel, he said adding that the government was giving thrust to civil volunteer scheme.
 
 Many of the new employees are having high educational qualification and this will certainly improve the efficiency of the force, said Pinarayi Vijayan. The government is committed to improve the force by modernising the force and introduce reforms to transform fire and rescue force to the most effective disaster management force.
 
 The chief minister also criticised the Kerala Fire Service Association for organizing the representatives meet and public convention separately. There is no need to set new trends by organizing things differently, he said.
 
 The Kerala Fire Service Association state president A   presided over the programme. MLA MK Muneer, KFSA general secretary   and other officials also attended the meeting.
 
