CHENNAI: They put up a joint show in Chennai on Sunday to convey their view points.   of India Mohan Parasaran and   spokesperson Khushbu, however,ended up contradicting each other by sticking to their respective position on the impeachment motion moved by political parties including the Congress against the Chief Justice of India, Dipak Mishra. Khushbu also said the  , which did not sign the motion, was free to have its own view.

 “This is the first time a motion to remove a CJI is being moved. It’s unfortunate. Today it is Dipak Misra, tomorrow it may be someone else,” Parasaran said.
 
 
 
 
 Parasaran said, “It looks like any political party having a strength of 50 MPs can hold the judiciary to ransom. This will lead to many serious issues. I can’t speak for the Congress because I am not a member of the party. I was told by my friend Kapil Sibal that he was deeply concerned about the institutional integrity. I am worried about what we are going to achieve in this case as the CJI will retire in October. Is it possible to achieve anything before that?” The issue, he said, has been politicised by political parties. “The BJP has politicised it. The impeachment move has also got politicised. It’s a tragedy,” said Parasaran.
 
 Congress spokesperson Khushbu, who was listening to Parasaran, didn’t question his views. “The Congress never accused the CJI. The Congress moved with the impeachment motion mainly because the four SC judges came forward and questioned the CJI. He (Parasaran) has a completely different perspective on the issue and is more concerned about legal issues,” she said.
 
 Parasaran said he was concerned about the judiciary. “What Iwant from the Congress is simple —retrospection,” he said. “I know that many judges are quite shaken by the incident. They are very upset.” In the framework of our Constitutional fabric, the judiciary holds a special place, said Khushbu. “Its independence is a Constitutional imperative without which democracy will flounder. It must be guarded and protected from external interference and be above suspicion. This is why judges must uphold the highest standards of integrity,” said Khushbu.
 
 Asked why, despite being an ally, DMK didn’t sign the impeachment motion, Khushbu said, “Each party has its own views. Shiv Sena criticises Modi, but they are alliance partners. Congress has a clear view on this and that’s why it moved the impeachment motion.” She added, “We are not here to debate on who is right and who is wrong. We hope that a thorough inquiry will be held so that truth alone triumphs. Democracy can thrive only when our judiciary stands firm, independent of the executive, and discharges its constitutional function honestly, fearlessly and with an even hand.”
 
 
