Bhopal: A construction work by Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) may harm civic body’s own efforts at projecting Bhopal’s heritage look. The work is likely to obstruct the stunning view of the palace of Rani Kamlapati — named after the legendary Gond queen.

 More than 300-year-old palace or whatever is left of it abuts the bridge between Upper and Lower lake and is Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) protected.
 
 The construction of the proposed arch-shaped wall has begun without the consent from the ASI. “Since the matter has been brought to my notice, the ASI will approach the responsible agency to seek remedy,” said ASI Bhopal circle superintendent archaeologist Zulfiqar Ali.
 
 Last week, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had stated a massive statue of Rani Kamlapati would be installed in Bhopal. Recalling the struggle and sacrifice of forest dwellers in the freedom movement, he said the Vanvasi samaj made great sacrifices in the freedom struggle. He said the state government has got memorials of vanvasi martyrs constructed.
 
 A similar wall was constructed by the BMC along VIP Road, the other side of the palace. The construction drew criticism from conservationists and green activists. “First the BMC constructed a wall along VIP road and then hundreds of trees were felled in the name of beautification. This is yet another misdirected attempt and is out of sync with realisation about heritage and its true value for the city and its culture,” said BMC corporator and local Congress leader Abdul Shafiq.
 
 It is not the first attempt on the part of the civic body to utilise funds for construction activity. Last year, along the same stretch of Kamla Park Road, the BMC had pulled down a real heritage wall. Perfectly functional, decades old wall was demolished and iron fence was erected in its place in 2016. The premise for the intervention was to provide better visibility for the palace.
 
  BMC mayor Alok Sharma could not be reached despite repeated efforts. BMC engineering wing official PK Jain said, “I do not have details regarding the issue.”
 
 ***
 
 Illegal construction along ASI-protected monument
 
 From a police check-post to a restaurant, illegal extensions have come to dominate landscape of the heritage palace. As per norms, any construction along ASI-protected monument needs a nod from the Union government agency. Any violation has to be penalised by a jail term for not endangering a monument. The Rani Kamlapati palace is one of the 290 monuments under the Bhopal Circle of ASI. In the recent past, the ASI has objected to illegal extensions and constructions in the area. The district administration has yet to take corrective action.
 
 ****
 
 Park and no-recreation
 
 The playground has no trace of grass, but the freshly painted swings are surrounded by construction and other rubble dumped along the Kamlapati Park. “The park has been overlooked by the BMC to include in Swachh Bharat Mission. Children cannot run freely out here. If one falls from a swing, the injury could be significant,” said Premchand Yadav, a resident of the nearby area.
 
 
