VASCO
  Abhijit Sarkar rose from the bench to score two late goals during the final minutes of play as   earned a dramatic 2-1 win over Churchill Brothers SC in a   clash at Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Saturday.
 
  Churchill were living on the edge despite a 11th minute lead provided by Dawda Ceesay. They were also denied by the goalpost twice and were on course for a hat-trick of wins, until Portuguese coach Luis Norton de Matos made a double change in the final quarter and turned the match upside down to avenge their first leg defeat. Sarkar was the hero as he first scored in the 90th minute and then scored the match winner in the third minute of added time.
  
  Indian Arrows climbed to the eighth spot in the standings with 14 points from 15 matches. A win for the Goans could have taken them to the fifth spot for the first time and possibly given them safety against relegation but the Goans are now placed seventh with 16 points from 13 matches.
  
  Ogba Kalu was back in the starting line-up for Churchill and partnered the hard-tackling Suraj in midfield. They allowed Indian Arrows to have the upper hand in the early moments as Amarjit Singh and Deepak Tangri took control.
  
  However, Churchill took an unlikely lead after 11 minutes. Nicholas Fernandes, who provided Koffi Mechac with a sublime cross in the solitary goal win against Aizawl, assisted Ceesay this time. The left winger outpaced Ashish Rai and found Ceesay at the far post and the Gambian striker headed past goalkeeper Prabhsukhan Gill.
  
  Koffi almost doubled the lead but his chip hit the horizontal and his rebound was dealt with by defender Jitendra Singh.
  
  The young Arrows had pace on their side but were guilty of doing too much with the ball and lost possession. Rahul Balan gave Churchill full-back Yendrembam Meitei a hard time on the left while Nongdamba Naorem showed promise on the other flank. He, however ran into Churchill’s defensive wall consisting of Osagie Monday and Hussein Eldor.
  
  Churchill were unlucky when the game resumed in the second session with Eldor’s freekick kissing the post.
  
  Soon, Arrows had an opportunity when Deepak fired from distance. Goalkeeper James Kithan fumbled with his collection but Rahul shot wide from close.
  
  Things were simply not working out for de Matos and he introduced Abhijit and Edmund Lalrindika. Boris Singh took the field with five minutes left on the clock.
  
  With the match drawing to a close, centre-back Anwar Ali was announced as Man-of-the-Match. He seemed dejected little knowing what course the match was going to take.
  
  In the 90th minute, Boris managed to find space and set up Abhijit and the striker calmly converted for the equaliser. The young guns believed in themselves and three minutes later a weak clearance by Eldor inside the box saw Abhijit take advantage and finish neatly for a stunning victory.
