JAIPUR: Over 20 city youths have scored the magical figure of 99 + percentile in the   exam that was announced on Monday. Till the last reports came in six students from the state have received a call from the prestigious IIM-Ahmedabad. The common thread among them is to become job creators rather thank work as employees. Kapil Dixit, CAT expert said, “The result is on expected lines. We are yet to hear or discover any student from   who has scored 99.99 percentile but it is estimated that over 35 students from the state have scored in the league of 99.99 percentile.”

 
 
 
 Score: 99.98
 
 As per the information received from various sources the best score in the Jaipur goes to a   resident Vishnu Sharma who has scored 99.98 percentile in the exam. An engineer, Sharma, has just got closer to his goal of becoming a successful entrepreneur. “I am expecting calls from some old and all the new IIMs. The reason I would like to go for MBA programme is to understand theories of business and economics which are required to gain enterprising skills,” said an elated Sharma. The only disappointment is that he has missed the centum by 0.2 points and exactly knew where he lost these precious points. “I missed out a small portion in Data Interpretation and Logical Reasoning that prevented me from scripting history,” said Sharma.
 
 
 
 
 Score: 99.86 percentile
 
 For Sahil   of  , Monday turned out to a double bonanza. While he was busy celebrating the success, a call from IIM-Ahmedabad inviting him for interview has put him on the cloud nine. “The invite is a dream come true for every CAT aspirant. I am hoping to clear the interview with flying colours,” said Katta, who is in final year BCom at St Xavier’s College in Jaipur. He got a call due to IIMs diversity policy which prioritises non-engineers and female candidates in the seat matrix. A student of Seedling Modern School, Katta has been a bright student throughout his academics. “My aim is to get into corporate world for some years before I have my own start-up,” said Katta.
 
 
 
 
 Score: 99.22 percentile
 
 CA Garima Gupta has attained another feat in her life within three years. Driven by the passion of creating a start-up to accelerate the growth engine of the country, Gupta resigned from her lucrative job to prepare for CAT exam. “I am expecting a call from IIM-Calcutta, IIM-Bangalore or FMS in Delhi,” said Gupta. While explaining the reason behind pursuing MBA after CA, Gupta said, “I believe in perfection. I could have opened my start-up but I first wanted to pursue MBA followed by working in a corporate world for some years. After learning business tricks in the classroom and practical training I will start my own venture.” 
 
