NAGPUR: The state forest department is considering to deploy drones, also called as unmanned aircraft vehicles (UAVs), for pre and post-monitoring of the 13-crore tree plantation drive to be undertaken from July 1 to 31.

 Recently, drones have found applicability in a variety of study fields, one of these being forestry, where an increasing interest is given to collect high resolution data that can be collected with flexibly in a short time and at a relatively low price.
 
 The issue was discussed at the senior officers’ conference at Thane on April 20-21.  , state’s principal chief conservator of forests (head of forest force), said, “We feel drones will help in mapping of plantation sites, surveying and mapping of pits dug, planting operation, survival monitoring and green cover change. It will bring transparency.”
 
 Agrawal said the forest department is in touch with the central government as it needs allotment of frequency from the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA). Under the ambitious ‘Green Maharashtra Mission’, the idea is to examine operational preparedness of its pre and and post-plantation operations.
 
 Agrawal said, “We plan to carry out aerial surveys and video graphing of select plantation sites located across the state. It would certainly provide more credible and accountable outlook to the overall planting operations. The analysed data acquired from drones imagery would be integrated against the plantation sites particulars in plantation management information system (PMIS).”
 
 Earlier, drones were used by the state’s wildlife wing for monitoring and photography in Pench and Melghat tiger reserves. Anurag Choudhary, PCCF (social forestry), Pune, said, “The issue is at a discussions stage and the forest department’s IT wing is looking into its economic viability and feasibility.”
 
 A section of forest officials said as per the central government’s guidelines, all drone operators operating unmanned aircraft at or above 200 feet above ground level require an unmanned aircraft operator permit (UAOP) from the DGCA.
 
 However, Agrawal said, “As of now, grants are not available for the project. Whether to hire or go for outright purchase of drones will depend on availability of funds.”
 
 According to the central government’s guidelines, users with drones operating below 200 feet out of restricted and danger areas as well as temporary segregated areas (TSAs) and temporary reserved areas (TRAs) require permission from the local administration.
 
 The guidelines state that model aircraft operating below 200 feet in uncontrolled airspace and indoor fors recreational purposes will be permitted, including activities within the premises of educational institutions.
 
 
