BENGALURU: For the second time in less than two weeks, the Karnataka government has done a U-turn by withdrawing anotification seeking people’s opinion whether the government should take complete or partial control of religious mutts, temples and other institutions in Karnataka.

 Chief minister   told the legislative council on Thursday: “We had issued the notification in good faith, based on the (Karnataka high court’s) division bench order of 2000 which directed the government to either set up a religious commission or any other body it deems fit to oversee affairs of religious mutts, temples, trusts and other institutions. However, taking into account opposition from the public, we have decided to withdraw it. The government does not, and will never, intend to take control of religious institutions in the state.’’ Siddaramaiah said since it is a court directive, the government will consult the law department and then take a call as to what best can be done to either evade or implement the directives of the court, without offending community leaders.
 
 The withdrawal of the public notice comes on the heels of a similar decision where the government, on January 28, admitted an “error” in a circular issued to all district superintendents of police (SPs) seeking their opinion on revoking cases against accused minority community members. This, too, was withdrawn after the   raised a ruckus and termed the Siddaramaiah regime an “anti-Hindu government”.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The public notice, issued earlier this week in Kannada-language newspapers, added fuel to the fire against the Siddaramaiah government, which faced the wrath of religious pontiffs outside and BJP and JD(S) inside the legislature.
 
 Seeking to move an adjournment motion, opposition leader in the House,  , termed the decision of the Siddaramaiah government an “offence” to religious institutional heads in the state and that the “anti-Hindu government” wanted to take complete control of majority religion institutions.
 
 “The government wants to take control of majority community institutions. At the same time, it wants to appease the minorities by withdrawing cases against them. This is nothing less than a Hindu virodhi government,” he said.
 
 No sooner was this statement made than Siddaramaiah took on the mantle of defending the government, despite the presence of muzrai minister   in the House.
 
 The CM said the previous BJP-JD(S) coalition government had issued the same public notice, word to word, seeking the people’s opinion on taking control of religious institutions. The CM showed the public notice issued by the  , formed by the coalition government to study the HC order and give its report on the same issue.
 
 “Now, are you telling me the BJP is also anti-Hindu? There is nothing anti-Hindu about this public notice and neither is the government inclined to take control of mutts or temples in the state. Mutt seers have nothing to fear,” he said.
 
 Siddaramaiah went on to reiterate that he, too, was a Hindu and had the utmost respect for Hindu religious mutts, temples as well as institutions.
 
