JALANDHAR: With Mehatpur SHO   caught in the eye of a storm for registering FIR against   candidate Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia, a fact-finding report on him has been prepared by the Jalandhar Rural police which has been sent to the chief electoral officer by the district electoral officer.

 
 It is learnt that the Jalandhar Rural police has reported that Bajwa was absent from duty after expiry of his leave for two days and did not report at the police station. This observation of the district police is very significant as on Monday Bajwa had claimed that he was asked to proceed on leave for another five days by his seniors.
 
 When asked, Shahkot   Dilbag Singh confirmed that Bajwa was absent from duty. Responding to query about Bajwa’s claim that he was asked to proceed on leave for five days, the DSP said he had not received any sanction of leave of the SHO and that he was absent after his leave for two days expired.
 
 In fact, Bajwa’s utterances had on Monday put senior police officers and the state government in a piquant situation. He had even claimed that he had called up Jalandhar (Rural)   Gurpreet Singh Bhullar a few hours before registering the FIR in the wee hours on Friday.
 
 Bajwa’s utterances before the media on Monday have also been found to be in violation of the official conduct as he commented about the Congres candidate and even about his senior officers, including the SSP and the Jalandhar Zone IG.
 
 It is learnt that the district police has also recorded its observations on his professional conduct.
 
 According to information, officials are finding it bizarre that he registered the FIR without doing the basic crosscheck with the revenue and the mining department officials to find out if a prima facie case existed or not.
 
 When contacted, Jalandhar deputy commissioner-cum-district electoral officer Varinder Kumar Sharma confirmed that he had endorsed and forwarded the report received from the Jalandhar (Rural) SSP on the issue to the CEO. Refusing to comment more, he said further call would be taken by the CEO.
 
 Notably, the SHO was posted by the CEO at Mehatpur after picking up his name from a panel sent by the SSP (Jalandhar). Bajwa did not take calls on Tuesday.
 
 
