NEW DELHI: After slogging for 18 hours till 2am on Monday, 22-year-old Mohd Ali woke up approximately four hour later to screams and cries for help amidst thick smoke. As he reached the first floor, he found the floor heating up like a pan and quickly jumped from the window to escape to safety.

 He was one among those who were lucky to survive the fire that later engulfed the entire building in the narrow lane of Raj Park Colony in  .
 
 The native of Asmada in Hardoi district of Uttar Pradesh said that around 35 people are from his village, while the remaining 15 workers are from Agra. The two groups used to sleep on different floors. While the workers from Agra escaped without any losses, four people from Asmada lost their lives.
 
 Hearing the workers’ cries for help,   swiftly started   operations before emergency services could arrive.
 
 Ravinder Kumar, who lives next to the multi-storey building, smelled smoke inside his room. After seeing the fire, he went out and started the water pump to douse the flames.
 
 “We continued to throw water, but as the electrical wiring didn’t have proper earth connection, we started getting mild shocks,” Kumar said. Later, the neighbours put up two ladders on the sides of the walls allowing 20 people to climb down to safety.
 
 The neighbours also lined up mattresses in an empty plot next to the building allowing the rest of the factory workers to jump and escape from the blaze. Residents also broke open a side door to help them.
 
 The workers lived, worked and ate in the same building. The factory owner had locked the main gate to stop theft. “Each worker is paid Rs 30-50 for every piece of shoe. The low salary doesn’t allow us to rent a room,” said  , whose cousin Mohd Razi died in the accident. He and his brother were planning to go back to their village for the latter’s wedding scheduled on May 9.
 
 The family members of the deceased brothers, Mehbub Waris and Ayub, are on their way to collect their mortal remains. Their cousin, Shan Waris, managed to jump from the building but injured his legs. The trio had come to Delhi three years ago after Ayub’s father suffered a paralysis attack.
 
 
