BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister Naveen Patnaik here on Friday announced Rs 10 lakh reward each for SPs of   and   districts for successfully leading separate anti-Maoist operations in their areas on May 13. Five Maoists were killed during a combing operation at Sudukumpa forest in Kandhamal while two were killed in Dudkamal area of Balangir district during the anti-Maoist operations within 24 hours.

 Naveen, who greeted Kandhamal SP   and Balangir SP K Siva Subramani at his office here, praised the efforts of Odisha police in containing left-wing extremism (LWE) in the state. DGP R P Sharma, director (intelligence) Sunil Roy, additional director general (operations) R P Koche and inspector general (operations)   were present when Naveen patted the SPs.
 
 “He (CM) emphasised all issues can be resolved by peaceful engagement & called upon Maoists to give up arms & join the mainstream,” tweeted the chief minister’s office (CMO). On Wednesday, Naveen too had appealed to Maoists to shun violence.
 
 DGP Sharma said the Rs 10 lakh reward money, announced by the CM, will be given in addition to the financial assistance paid to police personnel for conducting anti-Maoist operations. Sharma said this is the first time, the state government announced additional reward. “Our personnel usually get financial assistance from government for anti-Maoist operations. Reward money, announced on head of Maoists, too go to the police after encounter deaths. The additional reward money will certainly boost the morale of the police personnel,” Sharma said. Sources said the reward money will be distributed among those, who were part of the two anti-Maoist operations.
 
 Sharma, who took stock of the anti-Maoist strategy in Kandhamal on Thursday, said the LWE situation in the state is under control. He said combing operation will be intensified in  , Koraput, Balangir, Nuapada and Rayagada districts. While total seven Maoists were killed in separate encounters in Balangir and Kandhamal districts on a single day on May 13, altogether seven Maoists were shot dead in 2017. Police sources said total 26 Maoists had surrendered and 35 Maoists were arrested last year. 
 
 Meanwhile, riding high on the recent success of anti-Maoist operations in Balangir and Kandhamal, the police on Friday gunned down a Maoist in the cut-off area of Malkangiri district. Identity of the deceased was not ascertained. Police seized two firearms from his possession.
 
