VADODARA: Scores of students in the city appeared for the JEE-Advanced for admissions to IITs on Sunday. 

 
 It was for the first time that the exams which were conducted by   Kanpur were held in computer based mode. 
 
 Nearly  ,500 students who appeared for the exam in two sessions – for paper I between 9 am and 12 noon and for paper II from 2 pm to 5 pm, found the papers to be tough. 
 
 While the paper II was tough, paper I was moderate but not easy, students who appeared for the exams said. 
 
 Many a students were left disheartened as there were more negative marks which they suggest will make scoring difficult. For the integer-type questions the range has increased and it becomes difficult for the students to answer those questions, an expert said. 
 
 In paper I, which had three parts including physics, chemistry and mathematics, a majority of students found maths easy, chemistry moderate while physics was relatively difficult. The paper had 54 questions in total. Most of the students found paper II relatively tougher than paper I. They suggested that the maths section was difficult compared to physics and chemistry. 
 
 Although the total number of questions – 54 – in all remained the same as last year, the total marks of paper II has changed from 183 to 180 marks this year. Students felt that this year’s paper was tougher compared to the 2017 paper. 
 
 As papers were conducted on computer based mode, neither print of question papers nor copy of the response sheets were given to the students. 
 
 The JEE Advanced results are likely to be declared on June 10. 
 
 The exam comprising two papers of the three subjects physics, chemistry and mathematics were held in two parts. The first paper was conducted between 9am to 12 afternoon and the second paper was conducted between 2pm to 5pm. Total 108 questions including 54 in each papers were asked in the exam.
 
 Shreyansh  , state topper who stood at 24th position in All India Ranking (AIR) in  , said that format of the question paper was changed completely which brought great difficulty to the students.
 
 “The chemistry was the toughest in both the papers as one needs too much calculation to get the right answers. Mathematics part was harder in the second paper while Physics was not challenging,” said Nagori. The result may be declared on June 10.
 
