TRICHY: Nearly a week after imposing a   having less than 50 micron thickness, the city corporation carried out surprise raids on shops suspected of dealing in the product across the city, on Wednesday.

 The authorities, however, failed to find any godowns storing or selling carry bags with less than 50 micron thickness. It was the first ever since the civic body and district administration jointly declared that traders selling or the banned product would be punished.
 
 As the Central government notified ‘Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016’ encompassing revised anti-plastic drive, and subsequently,   implemented the same in August 2016. With the act coming into effect, the sanitary officials presently carrying out the anti-plastic drive would get more right to seize plastic carry bags having less than 50 micron thickness, and subsequently penalise the guilty.
 
 The implementation of new act did not make any impact with roads and water bodies still being used for fly-tipping every day. The corporation and district administration re-imposed the ban and declared that traders would be penalised and license be cancelled if found circulating substandard plastic bags from January 26. The corporation officials carried out inspections around   vicinity near   street, Big bazaar street, and   street all falling under Srirangam zone.
 
 Around 200 shops were inspected by sanitary and health department officials in which about 100 kg of banned plastic products mostly carry bags and tea cups were seized. “A similar raid was conducted across the same streets about two months ago and seized more than 600kg of banned plastic carry bags. On Wednesday, we found only 100kg of banned plastic carry bags. The dwindling number shows that awareness to avoid circulation of banned plastic products is catching up well with the traders,” A Nallusamy, sanitary officer with Trichy Corporation said.
 
 The officials said the traders found guilty of selling bags were given severe warning. District administration and corporation in the first week of January 2018 had conducted 5-6 awareness meetings for all section of traders to record suggestions for eliminating the banned plastic carry bags. Corporation officials said that traders were cooperative in the ecofriendly move to weed out extensive usage of plastic, and had insisted the public not to seek plastic carry bags from the shops.
 
 
