By-  

 GOA: TOI speaks to   of the Goan Welfare Society on how funds are raised for Goenkars in need
 
 When was the Goan Welfare Society formed and what is its purpose?
 
 The Goan Welfare Society was founded in March 1983 by three Goans to provide limited assistance to Goans living in the UK. Responsibility for the charity was handed over to the   (UK) when the original trustees had passed away, and in October 2004, it was re-constituted with trustees appointed by the board of directors of the Goan Association (UK). However, as required by the charity commission, the charity operates as an autonomous body with its own membership and raising its own funds. The purpose of the charity remained unchanged, to assist Goans in need in the UK and the trustees have endeavoured to maintain this objective over the years.
 
 Who comprises the Goan Welfare Society? 
 
 The present trustees are Paul de Mendonça, Norma Menezes-Rahim, Alfred Rebello, Rosy de Souza and Flavio Gracias (chair). All provide their services in a voluntary capacity.
 
 What kind of cases do you take up? Some examples.
 
 A major part of our work involves the repatriations of the bodies of deceased Goans to their families in India. We are in the process of repatriating the body of   to his family in Margao. Recently, we paid the rent for a mother (& child) whose husband became mentally unstable following the loss of his job and is currently detained in a mental health facility. We are supporting the wife who is also 22-weeks pregnant. We are also paying for the monthly shopping for a family where the main wage earner contracted leukaemia and is unable to work at present.
 
 How many cases have you taken up till date? What is the average number of cases you receive per year?
 
 In terms of the number of bodies, we have repatriated about 15 bodies back to India in the past five years, which averages about three per year. With respect to other help, it is about two to three cases per year. We work closely with the Goan chaplains and other Goan organisations to carry out our welfare work.
 
 How do you raise funds for the causes you take up?
 
 For repatriations, we initiate a fund-raising drive by means of a letter and emails. Usually, we try to break even but with many repatriation cases, we end up with a surplus which we hold to offset other areas of expenditure. We rely on the generosity of individuals for income but for the first time in 2017, we held a fund-raising function on December 31 (New Year’s Eve).
 
 Any advice for Goans planning to emigrate to the UK? 
 
 We would like to find a way to make it known to Goans in Goa planning to emigrate to the UK, that individuals should refrain from coming to the UK unless they have strong family support available here or are able to sustain themselves before they can get employment. Many families live a hand-to-mouth existence or in very cramped conditions, and hardship is not uncommon as the cost of living is high and rental accommodation is expensive.
 
 
