Trichy: Nearly six months after receiving the green signal from the ministry of housing and urban affairs, the city corporation has invited request for proposal (RFP) from consultants to take up work under the proposed smart city project in Trichy. Corporation commissioner N Ravichandran made the announcement during a media workshop on NHAI (National Highways Authority of India), Nabard, Smart City and Swachh Bharat Mission, organised by Press Information Bureau (PIB) on Wednesday. Though the corporation has been selected to receive fund for the scheme, it has not gone ahead with any further work on the dream project, inviting criticism from authorities. Calling for expression of interest (EOI), the commissioner said that the corporation would begin work on six major projects in the first stage. Ravichandran said the city corporation would give priority to developmental works in Chatram bus stand and Gandhi market. However, plans are also afoot to include constructing smart roads, smart parks and multi-level car parking in the inaugural stage, he added. Smart City Private Limited Company, which is the special purpose vehicle for the project, has been formed to execute the project in Trichy, he said. The corporation has set February 9 as deadline for consultancies to express their interest in taking up four projects. Consultants have time until February 15 to express their willingness to take up works for the rest of the two projects. The shortlisted consultants would be allowed to submit a proposal after making field visits and the lowest bidder would be given the project for execution. The major areas pertaining to smart cities include sanitation, waste management, quality of life and affordable housing for the city residents. Releasing the final list of 30 cities in June last year, the ministry for housing and urban affairs declared Trichy eligible to get Rs 1,000 crore under the smart city project. The Union ministry will bear 50% of the share the cost of the project. The respective state government and civic body will take the remaining cost. The corporation has planned to implement the project with an estimated cost of Rs 1271.04 crore. The majority of the fund, an estimated Rs 1,137 crore, will be spent on area-based development covering core city area of Rockfort, Thillai Nagar, Gandhi Market and Woraiyur. Pan city area, which will provide a comfortable transport system for the citizens, is planned to be executed at a cost of Rs 133.49 crore.