PATNA: Tourist footfall in state grew 13.45% in 2017, the highest in five years, even though the percentage increase in inflow of foreign tourists plunged from 11% in 2015 and 9% in 2016 to 7.14% in 2017.

 According to the annual tourist footfall report released by the state tourism department recently, altogether 3.35 crore tourists, including 10.82 lakh foreigners, visited the state last year.
 
 Tourism minister   said Bihar was ranked eighth in the country in terms of inflow of foreign tourists in 2017.
 
 Experts said religious tours and pilgrimage boost tourist count in the state as it is an important destination for Buddhist and Sikh devotees.
 
 Altogether 10.96 lakh foreign tourists came to Bihar in 2012 and the single biggest factor leading to rise in footfall of foreign tourists was the 11-day Kalachakra Puja at Bodh Gaya from December 2011 to January 2012.
 
 Over two lakh Buddhist devotees, mostly foreigners, attended the Kalachakra festival in 2017 as well. Buddhist spiritual leader Dalai Lama led the prayer ceremonies at the global Buddhist congregation.
 
 Kalachakra apart, lakhs of Sikh devotees thronged Patna in December 2016 and January 2017 to participate in Prakashotsava, the 350th birth anniversary celebrations of tenth Sikh Guru Gobind Singh. The Sikhs once again assembled in the state capital in December last year to participate in Sukrana Samaroh, the closing ceremony of Guru Gobind Singh’s 350th birth anniversary.
 
 Tourism experts attributed the plunge in arrival of foreign tourists to prohibition in the state. Bihar was made a dry state by Nitish Kumar government on April 5, 2016. 
 
 “Prohibition by and large has negative impact on tourist inflow. The case of Kerala proves this point. Tourist arrival in Kerala grew 10.93% in 2017 from the previous year, the highest in nine years. Officials of Kerala government have admitted that it was due to the reversal of prohibition policy,” said Arun Ojha, a travel consultant based at Bodh Gaya. 
 
 He added, “The previous Congress-led Kerala government had initiated a phase-wise liquor ban in the state from 2014, shutting bars and refusing to issue fresh licences for liquor shops. The Left Front government, which came to power in 2016, revamped this policy in June 2017, providing licences to three-star and five-star hotels to serve alcohol and allowing bars to reopen. The negative image of Kerala tourism was reversed with relaxation in prohibition norms. Governments should have holistic approach towards curbing sale and consumption of liquor.”
 
 Bihar tourism minister Pramod Kumar also admitted that some tourists visiting the state do not stay overnight. “I have been told by hoteliers in Bodh Gaya that many tourists do not spend nights in the state. They prefer to go to Varanasi, Nepal and other places, where liquor is available. The only silver lining is that tourist inflow in the state has increased. The government is making all possible efforts to ensure their comfortable stay,” the minister told TOI.
 
 
