Mysuru: Lashing out at government departments for failing to seek permission from the Heritage Committee to take up development works,   D Randeep said on Wednesday, “government departments are failing to conform with the rules of the Heritage Committee as they feel they need not seek permission to take up development works in and around heritage structures. Whether it is a private individual or government departments, everyone needs to keep their proposal before the committee before taking up development works.”

 “The committee is receiving proposals from private parties, while it has received only two proposals from government departments,” rued the DC.
 
 Stating that the district administration is committed to saving heritage structures, and ensuring the aesthetic design of the buildings in the city conform with the design of the heritage structures in the vicinity, he said, “Mysuru is not like any other city. The city is known for its rich architectural heritage and history. In the next 20 years, the city needs to look the same. We need to maintain the way it looks.”
 
 “With all seriousness, we need to ensure we comply with the rules of the Heritage Committee to save the heritage of the city,” added the DC.
 
 “The proposal for the statue of Maharani Kempananjammanni (Vani Vilas), which is slated to come up at Millennium Circle in Bannimantap, and a war memorial which is set to come up at the park abutting the DC’s office, will be sent to the government for approval,” said Muda town planning member B N Girish.
 
 Assuring that no proposals will be rejected if they comply with the norms of the committee, he said, “We are only trying to maintain the cityscape by ensuring it complies with the architectural heritage of the city. We have imposed restrictions on height, facade, and colour scheme of buildings, which will be constructed around heritage structures.”
 
 “We are willing to address all concerns of the government departments, when it comes to taking up development works near heritage structures,” stated the DC.
 
 Urging the Muda and MCC officials to report any violations that are taking place, the DC said, “Without the approval of the heritage committee, if work has been taken up in the city, I want the officials to report it to me to initiate action against those found to be violating the norms.”
 
 Areas classified based on heritage structures
 
 The committee has classified areas in the city based on the presence of heritage structures as – Group A, B, C,D, and E.
 
 Group A- Area around the Ambavilas Palace (Mysuru Palace), 300 meters inside the palace premises.
 
 Group B- Area around Jaganmohan Palace -30 metres from the boundary-maximum height permitted -7 metres, Lalith Mahal palace-100 metres from the boundary, and maximum height of 7 metres permitted, Chamundi hills- No new development within 100 meters of the temple complex, no hoardings or advertisement boards on the route.
 
 Group C- DC’s office, Maharani’s College, Maharaja Teachers College and high school, Maharaja College, Yuvaraja College.
 
 Group D – Boulevards such as Krishnaraja boulevard and Narasimharaja boulevard and Dasara procession route have been classified under group D. They will be maintained and preserved and any development will be done with the approval of the heritage committee. Hoardings and advertisements will be regulated in these areas.
 
 Group E- Identified heritage structures whether privately owned or by the government which have heritage value need to be maintained by the owners and the state. Hoardings and advertisements are permitted within the premises of those buildings that fall under category E.
 
 
