NAGPUR: District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCBs) have been asked to book losses for the banned notes of Rs1000 and 500 denomination held by them when demonetization came into force. The notes, despite DCCBs’ insistence, were not accepted by the RBI in time citing various reasons, said sources in the cooperative sector. 

 The move has miffed the cooperatives with the managements planning to move the courts now. The government had demonetized Rs 1000 and Rs 500 notes on November 8, 2016. Banks were allowed to accept the old notes till December 30 2016. However, DCCBs, which are mainly into agriculture lending, were stopped from taking the banned notes from November 14. 
 
 This gave cooperatives only four days as banks reopened on November 10 after the note ban order was issued. The prohibition was imposed on the grounds that cooperatives were being used as conduit to launder unaccounted money.
 
 DCCBs are controlled by politicians throughout the country. In Maharashtra, they are largely dominated by   and   with leaders from the parties elected to the board of directors. Notes collected during the four-day period were accepted and replaced with valid currency by the RBI. However, funds in banned notes already held by DCCBs as on November 8 are not being taken back by the RBI. 
 
 The total amount of such deposits is estimated at over Rs100 crore in the state. The figures will be higher in the country, said sources.
 
 TOI has a copy of one of the letters. It reads that the matter of specified bank notes (SBNS) held by DCCBs as on November 8, 2016, has been referred to the government and a reply is awaited. In view of the development, the banks have been advised to treat the amount held in such notes as loss assets. The letter asks the banks to make provisions against the amount in their books.
 
 “It was not easy to exchange even the notes collected during the four-day period. When we went to deposit the notes collected till November 14, the RBI asked us to come on January 16, 2017. It was said there is not enough space in RBI premises. Finally the notes were accepted by the RBI after a thorough audit. The banks were asked to wait for further instructions on depositing the notes lying before November 8,” said a source in one of the state’s DCCBs.
 
 Nagpur DCCB is learnt to have been left with Rs5 crore as balance in banned notes as on November 8. The amount will have to be booked as losses. The bank is already reeling under cumulative losses over Rs300 crore. With a profit of Rs38 crore, the bank was expecting to reduce its losses, but the profits will come down by Rs5 crore due to the provisioning.
 
 “The amount is not much in Vidarbha but it is not right to force the cooperatives to book losses. The government could have easily carried out a scrutiny of the banks’ accounts and accepted the amount accordingly,” said   of Akola District Central Cooperative Bank.
 
 
