NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court today dismissed the intervention application of 32 eminent persons in the   and fixed the next date of hearing for March 23.
 
 
 During the hearing, the apex court today dismissed all the intervention applications filed in the case. The court also barred BJP leader Subramanian Swamy from intervening in the case.
 
 The court rejected the application by 32 eminent persons, including Shyam Benegal, Aparna Sen, Anil Dharkar and Teesta Setalvad, who had sought to argue to put the 2.77 acre disputed land to 'secular' use rather than religious use by adjudicating the dispute between Hindu and Muslim groups.
 
 With its order of dismissal of the intervention applications, the SC trimmed the dispute to strictly between those who were parties to the suits before Allahabad High Court.
 
 The Allahabad HC had divided the 2.77 acre disputed land equally between three parties - deity Ram Lalla,   and   - in its 2010 judgment. 
 
 The court also expressed its inability to facilitate an outside settlement of the dispute, saying that it was up to the parties involved in the matter.
 
 "We can't ask anyone to settle and we can't say no to settlement. If lawyers of both sides stand up and tell us they've settled the issue, we'll record it. We can't appoint or suggest anyone for settlement. How can we do this in a case like this," the court said.
 
 Following the SC's decision barring Swamy from intervening in the case, the latter argued his case by saying that he had not intervened on his own, instead, he was asked to intervene by the SC itself when he had filed a writ petition seeking protection of his fundamental right to worship Lord Rama at 'His birthplace' in Ayodhya.
 
  "The fundamental right to worship Lord Rama at his birthplace was superior to the property rights being adjudicated in the Ayodhya land dispute case," Swamy said in the court.
 
 Swamy said if the SC does not want him to intervene in  , then his writ petition for protection of fundamental right to worship should be revived and heard.
 
 To which, the SC agreed and ordered a revival of his writ petition and posted the same for hearing before an 'appropriate bench'.
 
 
 On February 9, the top Court had fixed the next hearing in the  , to determine ownership of the 2.77-acre Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi disputed land, for March 14 as some of the documents and translations are yet to be filed before the court.
 
 The case was being heard by a three-judge bench comprising Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra and Justices Ashok Bhushan and SA Najeeb.
 
 The apex court said it will deal with the case as a pure land dispute, an indication that the centuries-old history attached to the case was of no significance to it.
 
 The court had in December last year decided to hear the civil appeals against the 2010 Allahabad high court verdict in the matter in February.
 
 It had rejected an attempt by the Sunni Waqf Board and members of the minority community to postpone hearing in the case till July 2019.
 
 In November last year, the Uttar Pradesh Shia Central Waqf Board had submitted before the Supreme Court a proposal for the settlement of the decades-old dispute, saying a temple can be built in Ayodhya and the mosque could be raised in Lucknow.
 
 A three-judge bench of the Allahabad High Court, in a 2:1 majority ruling, had ordered that the land be partitioned equally among three parties - the Sunni Waqf Board, the Nirmohi Akhara and the deity, Ram Lalla.
 
 Thousands of Hindu karsevaks had demolished the Babri mosque in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992.
 
 Around 2,000 people were killed in the ensuing riots.
 
