THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: If it was the decision to start evening outpatient (OP) clinics at government-run health institutions that led to the indefinite strike by health service doctors, later the issue was over the number of doctors to be put on duty for evening OP.

 Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA), which called the strike, was forced to compromise on its demand following public ire as the stir paralysed the state health service sector. The attempt by   (IMA) leaders to settle the issue was not fruitful as the adamant stand taken by the KGMOA was not acceptable for the government.
 
 The government, though did not yield to the demand to withdraw the decision to start evening OPs, was, however, willing to reduce the extra burden on medical officers.
 
 The health minister assured that no doctors who do morning duty would be asked to report to work in the evening. Minister   said a minimum of three doctors would be deployed at the hospitals for evening OP.
 
 But, KGMOA wanted at least five doctors for the evening OP. It felt that otherwise the burden would fall on those who do morning OP duty. However, the demand impractical as there are not enough doctors in government hospitals.
 
 “We do not oppose the starting of evening OP. But out objection is regarding the way it is planned to be implemented. The system will be affected if we are to follow rotation process for morning and evening shifts. We continued the strike to get only a clarity on this,” said KGMOA secretary  
 
 The IMA has mulled specific work arrangement for putting the doctors on both the shifts. “This was acceptable for both the government and KGMOA. But could not bring both together for talks,” said IMA state secretary Dr N Sulphi.
 
 The issue worsened after reports came in that the government might take disciplinary action against  
 
 While the doctors feared of severe backlash if they continued with the strike, the government was much eager to end the stalemate.
 
 Finally, with the doctors realizing that the government would not convene a discussion, the KGMOA leaders approached the chief minister’s office first and then the health minister’s office expressing their willingness (in writing) to hold talks to settle the issue.
 
 While the health minister was initially adamant that she would not hold talks unless the strike was withdrawn, the chief minister’s office  
 
