Chandigarh: A day ahead of a seminar to commemorate Dr B R Ambedkar’s 127th birth anniversary at Panjab University, a poster of   installed at the campus was torn and coal tar was thrown on it by miscreants here on Monday. The poster was put up at gate number 2 of the university.

 This comes weeks after two Ambedkar statues were vandalized in Uttar Pradesh.
 
  After the incident came to light on Monday morning, Panjab University Ambedkar Students Association (ASA) wrote to vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover and SSP Chandigarh police demanding filing of an FIR against the people involved in the notorious act.
 
 “We had put up flax near at gate number 2 of Panjab University after seeking permission from the authorities since we are organising a seminar to commemorate the birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar. Some miscreants threw coal tar on the poster. It is a shameful act and we not only condemn the incident but also want a strong action against those who are responsible for it,” said Gurdeep, a member of ASA.
 
 After visiting the spot, Prof Emanual Nahar, dean, student welfare, formed a committee to enquire the matter. “I have formed a committee under the chairmanship of Prof Rattan Singh, associate dean, student welfare. The committee will submit a report and I have also forwarded the matter to the chief of university security for further investigation,” said Nahar.
 
 Panjab University chief of university security Prof Ashwani Koul said that he has forwarded the communication by ASA to the SHO, Sector 11. Prof Nahar along with Prof Singh and wardens of the hostels and Panjab University Campus Student Council (PUCSC) secretary Vani Sood visited the spot. “This is really unfortunate, especially because it has happened in an educational institution meant for shaping the future of students. We condemn such acts,” said Sood.
 
 S R Ladhar, principal secretary, government of Punjab, is the chief guest at the 127th birth anniversary celebrations of Ambedkar at Law auditorium. The theme of the seminar is Ambedkarism: Past, present and future.
 
 
