Coimbatore: Around 190 people, who had been residing in houses around a housing unit complex on Vincent Road at Kottaimedu, on Monday petitioned district collector TN Hariharan seeking free homes. On October 29, 2007, the housing unit complex collapsed, killing 13 people and injuring 14 others.  In their petition, the residents said following the building collapse, the government had asked those residing in the housing unit and adjacent to the complex to vacate. They said the government had promised them new homes. Now, they live in rented houses in different parts of the city, they said. “In November 2011, the government allotted homes to only 392 people who were living in the housing unit complex. The rest 192 families, who were living in homes adjacent to the housing unit, are yet to get homes,” said district president of Social Democratic Party of India (Sdpi) Abdul Kadar, who represented the residents. He added that the government had been allotting homes for the people under the free housing scheme. “There are several vacant houses in the housing unit building near the waste water treatment plant at Ukkadam. So, we request the government to fulfill its earlier promise and allot houses for the 192 families who have been left out,” Kadar added. Mohammed Rafik, one of the residents, said, “For several generations, we had been living in our own house in Kottaimedu. But now we live in a rented house at Selvapuram and we find it difficult to afford the rent.” He added that they had been asking for houses from the government for the past 10 years. “We have also submitted several petitions. But we have not got any answer,” he said. An official of the slum clearance board said the department had received several petitions from the residents for the allotment of houses. “But we find the numbers to be in conflict. We don’t have the authenticated list of residents who were living in houses around the housing unit building when it collapsed. We will seek the authenticated list from corresponding authorities and will initiate further action,” the official said. 