GURUGRAM: A wife being advised by her husband to leave her job and seek permission every time she uses his credit card to shop, to a girl being told to forego her passion for acting — episodes of women’s wishes getting trampled at home leaped out of social media on to the stage in Gurugram on Saturday.

 Ten mothers from the city enacted tales from the daily lives of women to depict how the fairer sex have to seek permission every time they want their wishes fulfilled.
 
  Directed by Anshu Daga, “#Andme?.... I am changing” was organised on Saturday by a group called Gurugram   at the Mom’s Achiever’s Summit to mark International Mother’s Day, which falls on May 13.
 
 “Here, women are the ones who are oppressed, they are invariably conditioned to think about others every time. But what about the woman herself? Her needs and wants?” asks Dagga, who has trained in the Theatre of the Oppressed in Berlin and London after having worked in the corporate world for 15 years.
 
 One of the episodes in “Andme” shows a multinational executive returning home from office to find his wife in disdain over the amount of work she has to put in to manage both office and family. Asked for help in the kitchen, the husband advises her to leave her job and focus on household matters.
 
 Things, however, don’t quite materialise how the husband had expected it to be. As his inbox starts filling with messages of his credit card updates, he tells his wife to let him know before the credit card is used to shop.
 
 The organisers said it was through tales such as these that they tried to portray how a woman can seldom make choices of her own. This point repeats itself a number of times in the play.
 
 The day-long summit celebrated achievements of mothers from across the country and discussed issues such as parenting, health and career choices. “The idea of the summit was to celebrate the achievements of all mothers in their own spheres, be it their households, offices or anywhere else,” said Neela Kaushik, founder of  .
 
 
