SURAT: The   (GRP) and   (RPF) were put in an embarrassing situation when a group of passengers brought to a halt   train at Surat railway station on Thursday night demanding action against two women carrying at least 10 bottles of liquor with them. A number of criminals bring liquor and ganja to Gujarat from other states in trains. 

 The passengers were agitated since the security agencies had failed to take action against the two women despite having been told about them at Vapi and Valsad railway stations. They pulled chain of the train and did not allow it to move from Surat railway station until GRP personnel registered a case of bootlegging. Some passengers even threw the seized liquor bottles towards some cops and railway officials at the railway station.
 
 “Since only male members were part of RPF team, they could not check the women who had hidden the bottles under their clothes. We have registered a case against RPF staff and ticket checker of the train for not taking action in the matter,” senior division security commissioner, RPF, Mumbai division, A K Shukla said. 
 
 Passengers said the GRP team had a woman cop yet it did not take any action against the bootleggers, compelling them to stop the train in Surat. The passengers, too, were booked by RPF for detaining the train.
 
 Meanwhile, GRP arrested the two women bootleggers after registering a case against them. GRP booked the passengers for attacking the police team and misbehaving with government officials. “We have registered a case against GRP and RPF cops for inaction,” superintendent of police, Western Railway, Sharad Singhal said.
 
 “Investigation has revealed that a few members of the group of around 170 people going to Bhuj from Bandra did not have tickets. When the ticket checker demanded tickets from them, they started raising the issue of bootleggers to pressurize the railway officials,” Singhal added.
 
 Many passengers missed the train because of the commotion. At least 20 passengers had to be sent to   in another train where the Kutch Express was stopped for them to board it. 
 
 
