CHANDIGARH: Welcome to   in Nada, a village nestled in the Lower Shivaliks right behind Nayagaon — there are houses here, but no roads; there are electricity connections, but no sewerage; there are hills too, but they are being levelled.

 In spite of a near absence of civic amenities, land is on sale in this ecologically-sensitive zone abutting the Lower Shivaliks, without registry and in violation of land and forest laws. While a 10-marla plot is being offered for Rs 30 lakh, a 125-square-foot commercial plot is available for Rs 12 lakh. As the village is 2km from Chandigarh, land sharks bought vast tracts of forest and agriculture land here some 10 years ago and are now selling these for a profit. Such has been the extent to which the illegal construction has taken place that an entire colony has come into existence and more land continues to be on sale.
 
 For fresh constructions, an entire hillock has been levelled and trees on forest land axed. This correspondent visited the village and, while posing as a customer, spoke to a man who called himself Moudgill, an owner of multiple properties in the area. The man pegged the rate of a residential plot at Rs 3 lakh a marla. “You will require Rs 20,000 per marla for getting the registry of a plot, so that will be additional,” he said.
 
 When asked about the absence of roads, the man said development would happen once all houses were constructed. “Officially, though, registry has been stopped on directions of the high court,” he said. “But that is not a problem.”
 
 The violations which have taken place in the village fall under the Forest Conservation Act, Punjab Land Preservation Act, and Punjab New Capital (Periphery) Control Act.
 
 While there is a status quo in place on structures already built in the area as the Punjab and Haryana high court is hearing a case on it, no further construction or sale of land is allowed in the area, said Greater   Area Development Authority ( ) estate officer (regulatory) Mahesh Bansal. “As far as such constructions under our jurisdiction are concerned, we carried out a check some time ago and did not find anything amiss. You may ask the municipal corporation. There’s a possibility that the land falls under their jurisdiction,” he said. “If you have proof of fresh construction, you may submit it to us, so that we can take action.”
 
 Bansal confirmed there had been a block on registry of property in the area. These unplanned, maze-like, cramped constructions mushroomed in Nada after the state government in August 2010
 
 delisted 656 acres in the village from the Punjab Land Preservation Act, 1900. The move had come after the owner of Forest Hill Resort, B S Sandhu, had approached the Supreme Court over the government locking his resort, as it fell under PLPA. The Act had locked the use of land in Kandi areas along the   in Punjab. Even as the land was delisted, the state government’s notification, and the Centre’s approval, made it clear that no commercial activity will be allowed on delisted land, and the state government will have to de-mark forest and non-forest areas.
 
 Eight years on, however, the exercise has not been carried out, according to IFS officer Harsh Kumar, who has made this claim in a March 1 submission to the  . When TOI approached Kumar and showed him videos and photos of trees being axed and a hillock being levelled in the area, he said it was a violation of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980. “On land that continues to be under PLPA, there are 120 violations in the Shivaliks in Punjab,” he said.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Jitendra Sharma said it would be wrong to say forest and non-forest lands had not been demarcated. “The exercise has already been carried out in Mohali, and such claims about forest lands not being demarcated are false,” he said. Sharma said they had been continuously acting against violators. “We will continue to do so,” he said.
 
 Another major reason is the inclusion of parts of Nada, Karoran, and Kansal villages in Nayagaon notified area committee. While the state government had included these areas for bringing in development, only haphazard construction has taken place. Nayagaon MC sub-divisional officer Jawahar Sagar confirmed illegal constructions had taken place in Nada. “Gmada took action against violators, by issuing notices. The constructions that have taken place along the hills fall under Gmada,” he said. “However, not all constructions are illegal, some have been approved by the MC.”
 
 
