CUTTACK: A three-storey garment store in the busy Palamandap locality of the city was completely gutted in a blazing fire which also reduced three nearby shops to ashes on Sunday. No loss of life was reported in the mishap, nor was any one injured. The store had no fire safety equipment in place, said fire fighters. 

 At around 11.25 am, some of the customers in the store noticed a fire - caused reportedly due to a short circuit - and alerted its staff. Salespersons and customers were immediately guided out of the showroom. People also vacated the nearby buildings as soon as word spread of the fire. 
 
 The fire was so severe that 21 fire tenders and 160 personnel had to be pressed into action to douse the flames in an operation that lasted for more than five hours. Locals have claimed that property worth crores was gutted in the fire. 
 
 "I was standing near the store when heavy smoke began billowing out. Within minutes, the entire three-storey store was engulfed in flames. The fire spread to the two other shops located in the neighbouring building," said Srikant Das, an eye-witness. Das said there were very few customers in the store as it had just opened. 
 
 On January 4, a fire had broken out at a similar early hour in a shopping mall at Damana in Bhubaneswar.
 
 With the stretch leading up to the store encroached upon by shops, fire tenders had a tough time reaching the site. 
 
 Firemen also struggled to control the flames on Sunday as the garment store was filled with inflammable materials and had no fire safety equipment in place. "The store had no fire safety licence, which is mandatory. The store is over 100 feet high but the breadth of the staircase was only 1.5 feet. Our men had to demolish walls and use hydraulic stairs to enter the structure and put out the flames," said chief fire officer Sukant Sethi.
 
 An electricity transformer is located outside the showroom - a fact that had triggered panic among many who were watching the scene from the roads. "Luckily, firemen controlled the flames before they reached the transformer, otherwise the results would have been disastrous," said Laxman Agarwal, another eye-witness.
 
 Vehicular movement on the stretch from Badambadi to Link Road was affected for hours after the mishap.
 
 Director general of fire services, B K Sharma has ordered an inquiry into the incident to find out the exact cause behind the problem. 
 
 
