PANAJI: The director general of police (DGP) has, for the first time, laid down a procedure and protocol for Goa police for providing its personnel to outside state and central government agencies like   (NCB) etc for legal work like raids and investigation. The guidelines state that there is a need to ‘delineate’ and say that it is the duty of the Goa police personnel deployed to also ensure that the agency involved itself does not take law in its hands.

 “It has been general practice to provide staff to outside agencies to assist them in conducting raids/investigation within the jurisdiction of Goa. However, there is need to delineate and streamline the prodecures of providing force to outside agencies for assistance. As of now, there are no extant guidelines for providing police assistance to outside agencies. The purpose of the standard operating procedure is to establish a protocol,” states the circular with the standard operating procedure, issued by director general of police,  .
 
 The new procedure requires that any application for such requisition of police assistance should be received only in the office of the district superintendent of police, ‘who may consider the necessity for providing requisite force depending upon the sensitivity of the area where the outside agencies want to conduct its legal business.’ It is also the SP, state the guidelines, who will decide the number of personnel required to be deputed.
 
 The standard operating procedure has come after on October 8, 2017, at   beach, a Narcotics Control Bureau officer shot in the air to disburse the crowd which had scuffled with them. Following the incident, where Goa police personnel were also accompanying the NCB officials, the state home department had sought a detailed report from the police on the incident. Three police personnel involved in the mission were from   police station. The Pernem police station wasn’t informed of the raid. During the interrogation, the NCB sleuths assaulted a native of   at the shack. When the owner of the establishment came forward to question the sleuths, he was assaulted too.
 
 The protocol now laid requires that the Goa police personnel ‘accompanying the outside agency should be in proper uniform with noticeable name tags.’ The personnel should keep the concerned PI informed about any developments and should report to their seniors before leaving for the duty and on their return from it.
 
 “In case, the requisition is received directly at the police station, the same should be forwarded to the office of the district SP by the concerned PI. At no time, the police assistance should be provided without proper assessment of the situation by the SP,” states the circular.
 
 “Utmost secrecy should be maintained while dealing with such matter, so that the information in respect of conducting raid/making arrests is not leaked,” the guidelines state.
 
