Kolkata: Things are getting hot for India pacer Mohammad  , with cops charging him under several sections, including the non-bailable ones of attempt to murder, rape, assault and criminal intimidation.

 Officers of Jadavpur police station started a case on the basis of a complaint by the cricketer’s wife, Hasin Jahan, late on Thursday after she brought in allegations of domestic violence and infidelity and lodged a formal complaint with city police commissioner Rajeev Kumar at Lalbazar.
 
 Cops also slapped similar charges on Shami’s mother, Anjuman Ara Begum, sister Sabina Anjum, brother Mohammad Hasib Ahmed and Ahmed’s wife, Shama Parveen, based on the complaint drafted by Jahan’s lawyer. A police picket was posted outside Jahan’s apartment at Katjunagar in Jadavpur by Friday afternoon and Kolkata Police’s detective department took up the case in the evening.
 
 “Kolkata Police’s detective department has started an investigation. We will look into all the allegations and carry out a thorough investigation,” joint commissioner (crime) Praveen Tripathi said. A senior detective department officer added they would soon send a notice under Section 41A of the CrPC, asking Shami to present himself before investigators.
 
 “The sections merit Shami’s arrest but the cops do not actually need him in their custody as it is, basically, a marital dispute. Moreover, he is so famous that he cannot flee without being noticed. But he may be arrested if he refuses to cooperate with cops,” a senior criminal lawyer said.
 
 Jahan on Friday disclosed that several of Shami’s relatives had been trying to call her ever since she made the police complaint but she did not take their calls. “I had informed each one of them about the torture Shami was inflicting on me. But none of them did anything and all of them urged me to adjust as I was a woman. Why should I listen to them now?” she said.
 
 Jahan alleged that Shami last December forced her into a room at the family’s Uttar Pradesh residence with his elder brother and locked the door. “He said since I was a model, these things should not bother me much and forced me into a room with his brother, who started touching me inappropriately. He opened the door and let me go only when I started screaming,” she alleged.
 
 Shami, reacting to these allegations, told reporters in Amroha, UP, that his wife may have lost her mental balance. “I don't know what she is up to. She needs to explain what has changed so much in these few days. We even had a great Holi celebration earlier this month and now she is suddenly levelling all these accusations on me. I think she has lost her mental balance or it might be her game plan to sabotage my career,” he told reporters outside his UP home.
 
 Responding to the BCCI’s decision to withhold his annual contract, Shami said he had full faith in the cricket body. “Whatever the BCCI has done, they must have done it after giving it a lot of thought. But I have full faith in the BCCI. It will take the right decision regarding my career,” he added.
 
 
