BENGALURU : In a major crackdown against   operating without licence, the   has issued closure notices to 57 establishments. The fire and emergency services department has issued notices to 70 establishments to comply with safety rules in 15 days.

 Late Wednesday, the BBMP closed one rooftop eatery, Onesta, in   and fined the owner Rs 5 lakh. Rasta, a pub in the area, has been fined Rs 5 lakh and served a closure notice.
 
 Senior health inspector of the zone, Sanjay, has been suspended for dereliction of duty, sources said.
  
  
 The BBMP has given the illegal establishments seven days to shut down. If these places don’t follow the National Building Code in 15 days, then the fire department will initiate action, including serving closure notices, against them.
 
 Mayor Sampath Raj said: “Many rooftop places are operating without authorization. An inspection showed violation of safety norms; some places had flammable material on the terrace. We don’t want a repeat of the Mumbai tragedy.”
 
 Following a surprise inspection on Tuesday night, the BBMP issued notices to two establishments on Lavelle Road for violating norms and building by-laws: One was slapped a Rs 5-lakh penalty and shut down; the other was directed to wind up its rooftop activities.
 
 “These establishments didn’t have a trade licence or weren’t taking fire safety measures. They have been told to shut down in seven days,” Dr Siddappaji, the BBMP zonal health officer, said.
 
 
 
 
 Dr Manoranjan Hegde, deputy health officer for south and Rajarajeshwari Nagar zones, said notices were issued to three establishments in JP Nagar. “A survey has begun in Rajarajeshwari Nagar. Once this is completed, we will start issuing notices,” he said.
 
 Muzahid Pasha, chairman of the  , said 40 of the 57 notices were issued on December 26, asking them to suspend illegal rooftop operations. “When we inspected these places on Tuesday, they said they received notices only a while ago. Hence, we have given them seven days for compliance,” he said. “In some cases, owners of eateries with trade licences have violated some conditions. We’ve issued notices to them as well,” said Pasha.
 
 Soumendu Mukherjee, IGP and additional director (fire and emergency services), said they have issued 70 notices within hours of the Mumbai tragedy. Pubs and restaurants have 15 days to take corrective steps, he added.
 
 
