BENGALURU: Fresh voting will be held at a polling booth of   constituency on Monday following EVM malfunctioning on Saturday. 

 Fresh polling will be held between 7am and 6pm at the Kannada and Tamil Primary School in Lottegollahalli, off New BEL Road in Hebbal constituency. The decision was taken after an EVM failed on Saturday and despite a technical team's intervention, the issue was not resolved. Many voters had to return without voting. 
 
 According to election officials, the button number 9 of the ballot unit was accepting the vote by itself, the VVPAT was printing ballot slip for Serial No. 9 and the control unit was recording the vote. “We never observed any cross voting (i.e. you vote for one candidate and its registered for someone else),” they said, adding that it was a technical problem with the ballot unit, while there were no problems with the control unit and VVPAT. The candidate with the serial No. 9 was an independent, T Jaykumar.
 
 Malfunctioning EVMs hampered voting in multiple polling stations elsewhere in Karnataka in the first six hours of polling, delaying the process by at least an hour in many booths. People had to wait longer at many other places.
 
 Serpentine queues were seen at polling stations in   district’s Uppinangady, Banahatti in Bagalkot, MM Doddi in Yadgir, Bhavaninagar in Hubballi, Indi in Vijayapura, Kampli in Ballari, and some booths in Hoskote (Bengaluru Rural) due to faulty EVMs.
 
 In Bengaluru, various booths in 10 constituencies —   in CV Raman Nagar constituency, Lottegollahalli in Hebbal segment, Hosakerehalli in  , and multiple booths in Chamarajpet, Sarvagnanagar, Mahadevpura, Shanthinagar, Vijayanagar, Shivajinagar, Bengaluru South, Yelahanka in Bengaluru — also reported the same problem.
 
 A booth in Mudigere (Chikkamagaluru) and the station from where former prime minister H D Deve Gowda was to cast his vote in Haradanahalli (Hassan) also had faulty EVMs. 
 
 There were 58,000 polling stations in the state, of which a few hundreds were not active on Saturday — RR Nagar polls have been deferred, while those in Jayanagar were countermanded after a candidate’s death. On average, the Election Commission estimates that about 2% EVMs deployed for any elections could fail, and as a precaution, it’s mandated that 25% additional numbers are procured as buffer. 
 
 While these EVMs are ready for deployment, there has been unavoidable delay given the logistics, an official told TOI. 
 
 The new M3 units, the most advanced EVMs being used in India, also reported technical glitches at several booths. At a booth at Mudalapalya ward in Govindaraja assembly, polling staff noticed that VVPAT was not working during the mock poll process itself around 6.20am. While it was rectified, the control unit showed technical glitches once voting began at 7am. Voting was delayed for more than an hour till it was replaced.
 
 At PES College near Hanumanthanagar in Basavanagudi constituency, voters had to wait for more than an hour as the M2 EVM machine wasn’t working. “Seven votes were processed between 7am and 8am, after which the machine remained non-functional for over an hour,” said a polling staff.
 
 “When I came here at 8am, I was told there was something wrong with the machine and they had called the engineers. When I returned at 11am, everything was going smoothly, and I was able vote,” said R Radhakrishnan, 72, of CV Raman Nagar constituency.
 
 
