It is time to rephrase the saying ‘It is like cancer and there is no cure’ by putting an end to the fear of being diagnosed by the dreadful disease. Five women   from different parts of the country are going to do exactly that by walking the ramp on January 31 in Kochi to show the world that cancer is not the end of life.

 The aim of the show is to create cancer awareness and spread the message that one can fight cancer with early detection.
 
 Kottayam-based Megha Kuriakose, who survived Hodgkin’s lymphoma is one among the five, tells us that the impact on people when cancer survivors speak is actually greater than any other kind of awareness. “There is a notion that death is the only outcome of cancer. But it isn’t true. I was diagnosed with the disease at the age of 25 and I took the right treatment at the right time. Now, six years have passed, I am married and have a baby as well. I have observed that people are more convinced when I speak as I am a survivor. So I decided to spread the word,” she says. 
 
 The others who are walking the ramp are Preetha Menon and Sherly from Kochi, Yogi from Mumbai and Leena Joseph from Gujarat.
 On the initiative, Dubai-based Premi Mathew, the coordinator of the show, tells us that the idea was suggested by Sherly’s daughter Priya Rose, who is a stylist.
 “I was in search of an idea other than hair donation to spread cancer awareness and Priya asked me why not a ramp walk with cancer survivors? It needs a lot of courage to face the world post cancer treatment and we decided to go ahead. A single post on my social media page got us here to Kochi,” says Premi, who also runs a campaign Protect Your Mom that encourages children to support their mothers to have proper cancer check-ups.
 
 “I never thought I would find so many women to support the cause especially because we live in a society that has a lot of stigma about cancer and majority hesitate to reveal that they are cancer survivors,” she adds. 
 
 Single parent Preetha Menon, who is also part of the group of 'models’, agrees that it is high time for people came out of the fear and stigma. “I see a lot of cancer survivors around me who confine themselves to their houses as they think there is no hope. Even I had similar thoughts once. But being depressed was not an option for me as when I was diagnosed with cancer in 2013, my daughter and I were grieving the sudden demise of my husband,” she says.
 A strong support system if often half the relief, she says. “My daughter was my ray of hope and I had to live for her. So, I built up my confidence and with the support of my family and doctor, I recovered. However, I faced a lot of questions from people around on how I could be like this when I am ailing from a dreadful disease. If I had listened to those ‘beware messages’, I wouldn’t be here right now,” says Preethi, who along with the other survivors will gather in the city today to share their stories and for rehearsals ahead of the ramp walk.
 
 
