SHIMLA: As experts shared a stage to discuss impacts of climate change on mountain ecosystems, it emerged that it’s high time to come up with mitigation strategies to sustain livelihood of farmers in  .

 Experts said it would take visionary efforts to first understand issues regarding climate change and then craft strategies to address concerns of food and nutritional security, water security, biodiversity loss and conservation. They said the changes occurring in biodiversity must be closely monitored in proximity to climate variability of the region.
 
 They suggested a slew of measures during a brainstorming meeting themed ‘Climate change impacts on mountain ecosystem vis-a-vis crafting adaptation and mitigation strategies for sustainable livelihood in Himachal Pradesh’, organised by the department of environmental science of Dr Y S Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry (UHF), Nauni (Solan), in collaboration with the Union ministry of earth sciences.
 
 UHF vice-chancellor Dr H C Sharma said climate variability and change has been acknowledged as the one of biggest challenges that humans and earth are facing today. He cautioned that the problems would further aggravate in the years to come if corrective measures were not taken. He called for a total rethinking in research and development activities to manage and minimize the effects of climate change.
 
 Horticulture, director, M S Rana pointed out the impact of climate change on shifting of vegetation in the state and cited the glaring example of apple.
 
 Earlier, event coordinator and head of department of environmental sciences, professor   pointed out that like other parts of the world, Himachal Pradesh too was also witnessing impacts of climate change.
 
 He said over-exploitation of natural resources and various anthropogenic activities like industrialization, urbanization and transportation have led to this situation. There is an urgent need to create climate change related literacy among the people so that they can participate in mitigating this problem by changing their lifestyle, he added.
 
 Dr S S Randhawa, principal scientific officer, Himachal Pradesh Council for Science, Technology and Environment, gave a word of caution on retreating glaciers, decreasing snowfall, perennial rivers becoming seasonal and formation of moraine-dammed lakes.
 
 Dr M S Jhangra, senior scientist, UHF’s department of environmental science, cautioned that we have to be wise with the environment otherwise the problem of climate change would further aggravate and may have devastating effects.
 
 
