SURAT: A blistering heat wave sweeping Gujarat saw maximum temperatures rocket above 44°C mark on Thursday even as increasing number of people are falling ill due to the scorching summer.

 In Surat alone, at least 100 people complained of heat related ailments on Thursday and had to get treatment in private and government hospitals in various areas of the city. The 108 emergency service recorded 23 calls of heat related cases till 5pm on Thursday. Out of that four complained of abdominal pain, four fainted, five fell down, three fell unconscious victims and four vomiting.
 
 Though Surat recorded comparitively lesser temperature at 36.4 degree Celsius on Thursday, the high level of humidity at 59% made moving outdoors uncomfortable through out the day. 
 
 Meanwhile, severe heatwave prevailed across   and Kutch, an official statement by the   (IMD) said.
 
 Dr Vikas Desai, director of   and Climate Resilience Centre (UHCRC ) said, “Generally in coastal cities, wind provides comfort to citizens on roads. However, with 59% humidity people would sweat more which adds to the discomfort.”
 
 People avoided venturing out in afternoon without head protection. Many also avoided going out of offices or homes between 12pm and 4 pm.
 
 Ahmedabad city also baked with the maximum temperature here crossing 44°C for the second time this week. The city had recorded a 44°C maximum temperature on May 11. On Thursday, it recorded the seasons’ highest temperature so far, with the mercury touching 44.3°C, 4.2 degrees above normal. The minimum temperature in the city was 27.9°C, 0.8 degrees above normal. 
 
  airport, one of the 23 stations monitored by the met department, was the hottest in the state for the second day straight, recording 45.2°C. On Wednesday, the mercury had touched 45.3°C at Kandla airport.
 
 Amreli town in Saurashtra was the next hottest place, with a maximum temperature of 44.7°C on Thursday. Met officials said heatwave conditions prevailed in Saurashtra and Kutch on Thursday. The IMD issued a heatwave warning for Saurashtra and Kutch for Friday. According to the IMD, maximum temperatures will hover between 40°C and 44°C in North Gujarat, parts of Saurashtra-Kutch and   for the next two or three days.
 
 At present, westerly to northwesterly winds are prevailing at lower levels over the region. As these winds may bring moisture, humidity levels are set to increase.
 
 
