 Jennifer Kendal, Nafisa Ali and   in a still from 'Junoon' (BCCL) 

 A few Lucknowites may remember glimpses of actors Shashi Kapoor, his wife Jennifer Kendal, Nafisa Ali, Shabana Azmi and   moving around in the city in the late 70s while filming the National Award winning film 'Junoon'. One person who remembers it all clearly is the film’s director  . The Padma Bhushan, Dada Saheb Phalke Award winning director, who was in town recently, recalled the days he shot for the film in and around Lucknow.
 The film, set in 1857, which tells a poignant tale of a married Pathan’s obsession for an English girl and her mother opposing their relationship, also depicted the solidarity between people in a tiny hamlet in rural Uttar Pradesh, captured perfectly on celluloid by Benegal.
 The director, who’s known for films like 'Ankur', 'Nishant' and 'Bhumika' recalled how his good friend Shashi Kapoor had given the suggestion to Benegal to make a film with him and his wife Jennifer and how 'Junoon' then got made. "Shashi suggested to me that ‘why don’t you think of making a film that has me and Jennifer’. But he said that it should not be the kind of a film that he does morning evening and night. So when he mentioned this, I thought what kind of film I could make in which I could get him to play a part in and I could also get Jennifer into," recalled Benegal, adding, "So as luck could have it, just before this conversation between Shashi and I, I had read a short story written by   titled 'A Flight of Pigeons'. This was on a story revolving around 1857 based in a place called Shahjahanpur in UP. I read that story and felt that this would be the right kind of story to tell for Shashi because this had a Pathan who takes a shine for this Anglo-Indian girl and her mother abhors this man. It was a marvelous story. So I thought I’ll make a film on this and it seemed perfect for Shashi and Jennifer to be cast in together."
 
  
  Shashi Kapoor in a scene from 'Junoon' shot in  , near Lucknow (BCCLl) 
 
 With the story locked, Benegal then went about getting the rights of it from Ruskin Bond. "I met Ruskin Bond and asked him if this was a true? And when be told me that it was a true story, I promptly went to Shahjahanpur to find the place and see it for myself. We reached there and saw the church and the graves, among which was of these two ladies shown in the film, too. And while I was there, more facts started emerging about this Pathan and the lady. It became more and more interesting and I developed it further. By the time I developed the story fully, it went well beyond what Ruskin had written. And then I pitched it to Shashi and he said 'it seems absolutely perfect for Jennifer and me'. And that's how he went on to produce his first film," recalled Benegal.
 And though, films then were seldom shot in places like Uttar Pradesh, Benegal chose to bring the stellar cast to UP and shoot in and around Lucknow. "We did think of shooting the film in Shahjahanpur at that time but it wasn’t possible. The main problem being of crowd control there. But we did shoot in Malihabad and Kakori and also Lucknow. It made sense to shoot in locations as near to the original ones as possible to bring in the authenticity," he said, adding, "What made me choose Malihabad was this magnificent haveli I saw there which was perfect as the haveli of the main protagonist that is Shashi Kapoor. And I also found a close connection of the town with the revolt of 1857, the period in which our film was set. As we were looking for locations, we found this old lady living in a single room house. When we went to her, she said, 'You want to know about the gadar? I will show you something’' And then she took me into her kitchen and there were bullet holes, or at least they liked those, and she told me that those were bullet holes made when the Briitish had attacked Kakori. She also told me that a number of her family members had been killed in that attack. For me it was all very fascinating and it transported me back into that era. So I said, Malihabad and Kakori, here we come!" 
 Remembering the good times he has spent at veteran litterateur Amrit Lal Nagar’s place while shooting in Lucknow, Benegal said, "It was a wonderful time when we shot 'Junoon' here. We had such a marvelous time. To have someone like   and his family as our guides, it was just wonderful. I remember we shot in the Chowk area and everybody had said it was impossible to shoot there. But we didn’t find it difficult at all. When you go to places like that, there’s a sense of living history there. It hasn’t been obliterated still. There is so much accumulated human experience there and that was what I loved most while shooting the film here."
 Talking about filmmaking, we wondered when Benegal would be back on the big screen with a new film. His last film 'Well Done Abba' released in 2009. Not one to mince words Benegal said it was hard for a filmmaker like him to get his film financed now. “I have tried my best to make a film but I don't have the finances for it. It’s not easy to make a film for someone like me these days. I have realized, as you become older, it’s more difficult to get financiers. With young people coming in, they bring in a lot more energy and more ideas But the fact is, when you still have something to say, and I know I have a lot to say. So, earlier finance would come to me, now I have to go look for finance," said the filmmaker as he signed off.
 
 — Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
