JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court issued notices to the   and the chief secretary to allow online applications for RAS/RTS exams without insisting upon the candidate's Aadhaar number.

 A bench of Justice V S Siradhana issued notices to chairman of the Rajasthan Public Service Commission ( ) and state chief secretary, directing them to allow people to submit online application forms without insisting on Aadhaar number and accepting other identity proofs.
 
 A petition in this regard was moved in the high court by Nar Singh Ram and Mangilal of Bikaner district on which the court issued the notices today.
 
 RPSC had invited applications for RAS/RTS examination, 2018, for which Aadhar card details were sought. The matter was heard by the court which issued notices to the respondents to accept other proof of identity, said the petitioner.
 
 ‘Comply court order on pay revision’
 
 Rajasthan High Court has directed the government to comply with its directions on the pay revision, infrastructure facilities to the Public prosecutors and Assistant Public Prosecutors by May 21.
 
 The division bench of Justice K S Jhaveri and V K Vyas issued the order on a petition by Rajasthan Public Prosecutors Association.
 
 The high court on April 16 had issued directions that the 294 newly appointed Assistant public prosecutors be issued lap top and minimum library facilities and revision of the pay scales. The court also directed that the office space constraints of these officers also need to be resolved, said counsel for the petitioner Anoopdhand.
 
 Vacancies at RU
 
 The Rajasthan High Court summoned chief secretary, additional chief secretary of higher education, director of higher education on a contempt petition over noncompliance of its order to fulling up the vacancies in the  .
 
 The high court had ordered the university to full up the vacancies of teaching as well as non-teaching staff on a petition by R B Singh by April 2017, but more than a year had passed he university could not comply with the orders. The court had summoned the university officials and the senior officials in the higher education department but except the university officials none of the officials in the government present in the court, said counsel for the petitioner Naina Saraf.
 
 Court seeks govt reply on Lokayukta extension
 
 Rajasthan High Court seeks reply from the government over extension given to Lokayukta Justice S S Kothari. The reply is to be filed by July 16. The governor in March issued an ordinance extending the term of Lokayukta by three years which was challenged in the high court.
 
 The petitioner Vibhuti Bushan Sharma said the state government cannot issue ordinance for an individual. Further, the petition reads that as per the provisions of Rajasthan Lokayukta and Up- Lokayukta Act, 1973, the chief justice should have been consulted before extending the Lokayukta’s tenure, as he is appointed with the chief justice’s consent. Former justice Kothari was appointed Lokayukta on March 25, 2013.
 
 
