NEW DELHI: Central   of Secondary Education ( ) has filed a written complaint with   against a website for allegedly circulating fake news that the JEE (Main) 2018 exam had questions identical to those during a mock test conducted by a private coaching academy two years ago. 

 According to a statement released by CBSE, it found that news circulating on social media of an alleged JEE (Mains) paper leak was fake and baseless. "CBSE has taken serious cognizance of the situation and filed a written complaint for lodging FIR against the website owner of cisthetaglobal.com with the DCP (Crime) Delhi Police headquarters," the statement said. 
 
 The board, said the statement, had conducted a thorough inquiry into claims that "7-8 questions in the Physics paper appeared to be similar to those asked by   in the 2016 mock test". 
 
 The information was flashed on the website and the owner of the portal told CBSE that the information was received through WhatsApp and uploaded as it is. 
 
 "He refused to take any responsibility of the material hosted on this link and informed CBSE that the facts of the content/images were not verified and, as per their policy, they are not responsible for the information uploaded on the website and that it was displayed as received. This argument is completely unacceptable to CBSE as this callous and irresponsible attitude of the owners has caused undue anxiety and doubt in the public mind with regard to the credibility of CBSE and the JEE (Main) Exam, which is also a gateway for admission to IIT Advanced examination (sic)," the statement read. 
 
 Board officials also said that the spokesperson of Narayana Academy confirmed to the board that images on the website were not of their academy, calling the information "fake, baseless and fabricated". CBSE claims that the information was circulated to tarnish its image. It said that it had successfully conducted JEE (Main) exam on April 8 at 1,621 centres for 10.43 lakh registered candidates across the world.
 
 
