Coimbatore: A day after city-based social activists blocked a truck carrying smuggled sand from the Noyyal riverbed, Perur police seized another such truck on Saturday.  Police have arrested the driver, cleaner and a labourer. “We stopped the truck and arrested the men after receiving a tip-off. The seized truck was handed over to the Perur tahsildhar and the men were produced before the executive magistrate,” Perur deputy superintendent of police Velmurugan Arumugham said. In a Facebook post, the DSP has requested residents to inform him about sand smuggling. Easy access to the riverbed, support of politicians as well as police and revenue officials have made the Alandurai-Karunya-Madhuvarayapuram-Perur-Thondamuthur belt a hotspot for sand smuggling, activists say. The smugglers have dug up huge pits on the riverbed at Alandurai and neighbouring villages, TOI found on Saturday. Sakthivel of NGO Noyyal Nadhi Paadhugaapu Kuzhu said that this has been happening for over two decades. “Unless there is political will and the district administration takes a strong stand, this cannot be stopped,” he said. Another activist pointed out that the local police station was just 500m away from the river and it was quite impossible that the officers were ignorant about sand smuggling. “Donkeys and bullock carts are used to transport sand throughout the night when police are on patrol. Even if they miss, whenever we notice, we inform police. However, the officers often do not turn up and even let the drivers escape with the lorry in front of us,” an activist said. TOI is in possession of a video showing lorry owners boasting how they do the trade by bribing police officers. Meanwhile, police officers at Alandurai, Karunya and Perur police limits said they were extremely short-staffed. “We need evidence to prove the theft. Whenever we go there, their spies inform them after which they hide in the wilderness. We get to see only donkeys, bullock carts. So, we cannot register any case against them. Also, when we seize lorries, it becomes difficult to prove that they were used for selling sand,” said a police officer.  State deputy secretary of Pattali Makkal Katchi Ashok Srinithi, against whom the city police had filed cases after he stopped a sand-laden lorry on Friday, said that they had already sent samples of the sand for testing. 