CHANDIGARH: A 20-year-old youth is battling for his life at PGI after a car of the Haryana government rammed his bike in Sector 1 on Tuesday night.

 The white Hyundai Sonata car belongs to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s IT consultant Dhruv Majumdar. It was alleged that he was behind the wheels at the time of the accident at 11.20pm and had fled leaving the vehicle behind, allegations he denied.
 
 Maninder Singh, acting station house officer, Sector 3, said the injured has been identified as Satnam Singh, a resident of Ram Darbar. He works as a pizza delivery boy in Sector 34.
 
 According to the FIR, Gurmeet Singh, 50, a resident of Ram Darbar, reported that he was returning home from Nayagaon in his car. In his complaint, he said as he reached near the old barrier gate, a car with registration number HR10 G-0009 coming from the   and Haryana high court side hit the biker coming from Sector 9 direction. The collision was so powerful that front part of the car got badly damaged.
 
 The FIR stated that the driver stopped his car and alighted. After seeing the condition of the biker, he fled, leaving him in a pool of blood and his car behind, the FIR said. Later, some people called up police helpline 100 and informed the cops. The injured was taken to Government Multi-specialty Hospital, Sector 16, in a private car, from where he was referred to PGI. Doctors operated upon him. They said his condition is still critical.
 
 When TOI contacted Majumdar, he denied he was driving the car. He, however, admitted that the accident took place with his car and the injured person was helped onto a nearby car and taken to a hospital. “The injured is being taken care of, including financial assistance for his treatment. Regular updates are being taken of him,” Majumdar said. The car was non-functional and had to be towed in presence of his driver, Majumdar said.
 
 Police impounded the vehicle and registered an FIR under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC against an unknown car driver. Police are verifying who was driving the car.
 
 
