CHANDIGARH: Only a handful of   have served as members of the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh ( ) in 10 years. Even its present core committee has no woman, even though six women from various resident welfare associations (RWAs) of the city have asked for a stake in it.

 In the annual meeting here on Monday, the women of the RWAs raised this issue again and demanded an answer to why they are never taken on any of the committees constituted by Foswac? Women work on many of the 74 RWAs registered with Foswac but their representation in the federation is very less. In June 1988, Chandigarh resident Dr Satnam Singh constituted Foswac as a pressure group of residents to force the civic authorities to act upon long-pending issues. He started Foswac with 12 resident welfare associations. Later, Air Marshal Randir Singh (retd) remained its chairman for 12 years and P C Sanghi for another almost 12 years. Baljinder Singh Bittu is present chairman of Foswac.
 
 In 2015, Parkash Dhillion, who is now vice-president of the Sector-21  . raised the issue why she was not allowed to hold any core-committee post in Foswac. She demanded at least one post for a woman representative but, so far, the federation has not taken a call on it. Dr Harbans Kaur, member of the Sector 43 resident welfare association, said: “These days, due to an increase in snatching incidents, women have stopped wearing jewellery to the market or weddings. This issue is never discussed seriously in the Foswac meetings, since there is no woman on the core committee. We the women have our own issues but we do not have a platform to raise those in any of the meetings. This fails the purpose of having a federation.”
 
 Foswac president Baljinder Singh Bittu said: “I will propose to elect a woman as chairman after every two years. Another proposal I have received from the RWA members is to reserve a seat for a woman candidate every year, so than the federation has women’s representation.
 
 
