JAIPUR: Erstwhile royal of Mewar M K Vishvaraj Singh, son of   of Udaipur, on Thursday took on  , the chief of   (CBFC), and questioned him in the light of Supreme Court (SC) order staying the ban on the film by various state governments, including Rajasthan.

 In an open letter, a copy of which was also sent to TOI on Thursday, he asked Joshi how he found time to certify the film when proceedings, related to the film, were going on at various courts, including a contempt notice.
 
 “The filmmakers have stated that the movie is fiction and based on the poem ‘Padmaavat’. Does freedom of expression include the permission to make a fictitious story that uses and commercially exploits the name of real persons who have led heroic lives, places and events? Any person or community can then be similarly misrepresented in the future,” Singh stated in the letter.
 
 “The movie has consistently been promoted as a historical film and the names of Maharani Padmini, Maharawal Ratan Singh ji, Alauddin Khilji used in promotions. These are all persons who existed in our history. It is only in the last few weeks when claims of historically accuracy were seriously questioned that the filmmakers stated that the film was a work of fiction was drawn from the work of Sufi poet Malik Mohammad Jayasi’s poem ‘Padmaavat’. Misleading the public with the intention to commercially exploit the names and reputation of historical personages is apparent,” he adds.
 
 On the film’s certification in United Kingdom, Singh asked, “It has been reported that the film has been certified as a historical in United Kingdom. If this is a fact, why the inconsistency: Historical in UK, but fictional in India.”
 
 Singh has specifically asked a few questions to CBFC. The questions include: How many days did it take to certify the film from the state of completion to application for certification? How does this time period compare to the average time taken to certify a film? Does the application for certification categorically state the film to be a work of fiction? Was any action taken against the filmmakers for acting against regulations - (i) By selectively screening and publically reviewing the film before certification? (ii) Announcing a release date of December 1, which was only a few days after their application for certification was reportedly submitted. (iii) Were there any other irregularities in the process of certification that were overlooked? Did the CBFC ask anyone familiar with the poem ‘Padmaavat’ to view the film in order to verify the claims of filmmakers?
 
 “A panel was invited to view the film – why was an alternate and smaller panel shown the film? The smaller panel disapproved of the film but the movie has now been publicised as having been ‘vetted’ by the panel and certified after some modifications suggested by the panel. It is clear that the decisions were made by the CBFC and the appointment of the panel was only to be used to certify the film. Why was there a need for historians in the panel appointed by the CBFC if the film is fictional? Court proceedings regarding the film were in progress in Lucknow for which the chairman of the CBFC, Prasoon Joshi has reportedly received notices of contempt. He has ignored court proceedings but has found the time to certify the film,” Singh states in his letter.
 
 He has also questioned the attitude of the Union government. “The attitude of the Union government can be gauged from the fact that news reports of January 18, 2018, have Hon’ble Prime Minister of Israel Mr Benjamin Netanyahu and Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi attending a function in Ahmedabad where they were welcomed with the song ‘Ghoomar’ from the film that has been objected to,” he states.
 
 
