MADURAI: A mega heritage and cultural museum showcasing Tamil culture and its journey through the times is to be established at the   building at   in Madurai at a cost of Rs 50 crore. About 40 % of the museum’s work is expected to be over by the end of the financial year.

 It was late chief minister   who envisaged a building for   in Madurai — regarded as the seat of the ancient Sangam period — in 1985 and also allocated 14.5 acres of land for constructing a huge building there. Late chief minister J Jayalalithaa allocated funds and the building was completed at a cost of Rs 25 crore in 2016 since when it has been functional. Literary events and international research with the participation of experts from across the globe are being held here. The museum is expected to help in reaching out to more people. 
 
 Director of Tamil Sangam K M Sekhar said that the aim of setting up the museum was to spread awareness about the rich heritage and culture of Tamil. Sculptures and statues which showcase the tradition of Tamils would be installed. These include a huge statue of “Tamil Annai” on the lines of the one that former CM Jayalalithaa planned to install in the   tank. It would be one of the top attractions along with those related to games of Tamil people like the bulls of jallikattu.
 
 Tamil literature speaks of the culture and tradition of the people who lived in areas of different geographical landscape such as Kurunji (mountains), Mullai (forest), Marutham (valley and plains), Neydhal (seashore) and Palai (desert). Each area is marked by its specific trees, animals, food and way of living. All these can now be experienced through the 12-dimension virtual reality room. “It will appear and feel like a real experience and is to be established at a cost of Rs 2.72 crore. It will go a long way in learning as well as understanding the culture instead of just reading about it,” says the director.
 
 As many as 120 oil paintings on canvas of international standards are being commissioned at a cost of Rs 5.15 crore in the first phase of the museum to be completed by the end of this financial year. As many as 232 exhibits are to be installed in the first phase of the works which would be carried out at a cost of Rs 15 crore. The initial works of ‘Thaimozhi Tamil fountain’ — on the lines of the Trevi fountain in Rome — will be started at a cost of Rs 2.50 crore in the second phase. This will be taken up during 2019-20 and completed in the third phase at a total cost of Rs 16 crore during 2020-21.
 
 “Tamil cannot be described or showcased in a nutshell — it is a never-ending saga of a great language, culture and heritage through the centuries. There have been poets from Tholkapiar 2000 years ago to   of today. Giving a different dimension to Tamil, we will try our best to bring it all through this museum,” said Sekhar. 
 
 
