PATNA: President Ram Nath Kovind will inaugurate the three-day fourth International Dharma-Dhamma Conference at Rajgir International Convention Centre on January 11. Over 100 dignitaries and experts from 11 countries will hold deliberations and present research papers on various topics related to Buddhism and other religions and global peace during the conference, being jointly organized by India Foundation, Nalanda University (NU), Ministry of External Affairs, Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and Vietnamese Buddhist Sangha. 

 The inaugural session will be chaired by President Kovind and participated by Sri Lanka’s foreign affairs minister Tilak Marapana, governor Satya Pal Malik, CM Nitish Kumar and ministry of external affairs secretary Preeti Saran, among others.
 
 Dignitaries to participate in other plenary sessions include Thailand’s culture minister Vira Rojpojchanarat, S R Bhatt, chairman of Indian Council for Philosophical Research and Say Amnann, deputy director general of religious affairs in ministry of cults and religion, Kingdom of Cambodia, among others.
 
 NU vice-chancellor Suniana Singh said on Monday it would be a unique conference witnessing policy makers, people in the governments, sages and monks sharing views on dhamma (teachings of Buddha), dharma (religion) and global peace.
 
 “The conference will bring together a wide array of dignitaries, who are responsible for governance, policy making and giving directions to countries. Besides, sages, monks and swamis will also share their spiritual views in different sessions,” Singh said.
 
 Speaking on the role of NU in organizing the conference, Singh said: “NU is an international institution with global mandate to bring international peace and resolve global conflicts. Conferences like this act as a knowledge, intellectual and cultural bridge between different countries. The Dharma-Dhamma conference will work at different levels to project India in ASEAN and on the global platform.”
 
 Speaking on the ongoing construction of the main campus of NU at Rajgir, Singh said work was in progress at required pace and its first phase would be completed by 2020. She added that an in-house convocation will be held this year for the outgoing batch. As of now, around 130 students study in three courses at NU.
 
 
