NEW DELHI/GANDHINAGAR: In a decision that can complicate Congress’s Rajya Sabha nominee from Gujarat Naranbhai Rathwa’s election bid, Lok Sabha Speaker   has ordered an inquiry into the ‘no dues certificate’ issued to him by Parliament following complaints of forgery.

 The action follows a complaint by   MP from Belgaum Suresh Angadi who alleged that blank ‘no dues certificates’ were handed over to Rathwa’s staff and these were filled in record time, raising suspicions of forgery.   is a former Lok Sabha MP who served several terms.
 
 Late on Tuesday evening, a BJP delegation led by MoS parliamentary affairs M A Naqvi and MP Bhupender Yadav lodged a complaint with the Election Commission for clearing Rathwa’s nomination despite objections.
 
 Rathwa alleged that BJP leaders were trying to derail his nomination process. “I thought my form will easily get passed. My documents according to requirements were submitted. But senior BJP leaders created a disturbance and brought lawyers and tried to put pressure on the returning officer. After six hours, my form was sanctioned,” he said.
 
 Angadi said the “criminal conspiracy” behind no dues certificate must be unearthed and action taken against the officials concerned. He also referred to another BJP MP Sanjay Jaiswal asking for details from the secretary general about the issuance of the certificate to Rathwa.
 
 “We are shocked to find that the application for the said certificate was made at around 2.25 pm on March 12 and blank no dues certificate was handed over to the office staff of Nathwa to get it filled in by the respective branches and agencies,” Angadi said in his complaint.
 
 The BJP MP maintained it was hard to believe that such sensitive documents could be handed over to the person seeking the certificate himself. “Further, we were informed by the secretariat that around 3.15 pm, the office staff handed over the duly filled forms to the officers concerned. It implies that the entire process of getting no objection from seven different departments in the Lok Sabha secretariat was completed in less than 40-50 minutes,” Angadi alleged.
 
 BJP’s Gujarat unit president Jitu Vaghani said the certificate issued to Rathwa by Parliament was released at 3:30 pm on Monday. “He (Rathwa) submitted a fake certificate. Speaker has constituted an inquiry. He has also not mentioned serious allegations in his affidavit,” Vaghani said.
 
 Congress leader Shakti Singh Gohil refuted the allegations and said, “We were honest and truth always wins. Our candidate's nomination form has been cleared. It's only BJP who can make an issue out of a non-issue.”
 
 Rathwa was a member of the 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th and 14th Lok Sabha. He represented the Chhota Udaipur constituency of Gujarat.
 
 
