CHHAPRA: Union home minister   on Sunday praised the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) jawans for working in extreme weather conditions and also lauded the   Kumar government in the state for tackling Naxalism effectively as the number of Maoist incidents in the state had come down to less than half since 2013. “I would like to thank CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CM Sushil Modi and police and paramilitary forces for this (achievement),” he added.

 Inaugurating the 6th battalion headquarters of ITBP near Kotheya village under Jalalpur block of Saran district, Singh said the ITBP jawans are always on their toes to serve the country’s border under adverse conditions like extreme cold and hot weather and they are skilled in handling any disaster-like situation because they are disciplined solders of the country.
 
 The CM, on his part, thanked the home minister for setting up an ITBP battalion in Saran and demanded at least two more battalions in the state. He assured Singh of all state government help in setting up more ITBP camps in  . Nitish also thanked Singh for considering his demand to set up a camp of Rapid Action Force (RAF) in Vaishali as the state has to requisition RAF from Jamshedpur whenever needed. 
 
 The home minister appealed to the poor of the country to be on guard against the Naxalites’ design to win their sympathies. “I would like to appeal to the poor of the country and as well as those of Bihar that the Maoist leaders want them to remain poor whereas their (Naxalites) own children study in prominent colleges and universities and some of them even study abroad. The Naxalite leaders have become crorepatis,” Singh said.
 
 “There are elements who want to break the social harmony and try to create hatred in the country. I would like to especially appeal to the youths to fight and oppose such elements firmly,” he said.
 
 Both the Centre and the state governments are working for the development of backward regions, he said and appreciated the Nitish government for posting a resounding 10% plus growth rate.
 
 Singh said “Bihar’s growth rate has increased tremendously during the NDA government. The state has clocked a growth rate of 10.3%, which has happened for the first time whereas the national growth stands at 7.3%. The effect of the growth will be visible after some time. Both Nitish and Sushil Modi deserve praise for this”.
 
 Singh also termed as “historic” the Nitish government’s decision to enforce complete prohibition in the state and said it was for a better future of the state and its people.
 
 “As a home minister of the country, I can say the crime rate has gone down in Bihar after the enforcement of prohibition as compared to earlier period,” Singh said, adding even Prime Minister   had appreciated the prohibition in the state during his recent visit to Champaran.
 
 The minister said the central government has a policy to establish headquarters of such paramilitary forces in remote areas of the country to instill a sense of security among the citizens and also to develop respect for the jawans. 
 
 Replying to the demand by Maharajganj MP Janardan Singh Sigriwal that pre-training be organized by this battalion before the recruitment of jawans, the minister said, “I have already asked the Director General of ITBP to arrange pre-training for the local youths and also to consider them during recruitment drive.” However, he made an appeal to the people of Bihar to rise above religion, caste and creed as these are hurdles in the development of the country. 
 
 The minister said he has requested the DG of ITBP to consider serious cases of illness in the 10-bedded hospital inaugurated by him today. He dedicated besides the hospital administrative block, an officer mess and officers’ quarters, etc
 
 Earlier, the jawans displayed important drills, including anti-hijacking of a bus, rotating spare tyres within 2 and half seconds, dismantling of weapon and re-assembling them and concealment of jawans. 
 
 The function began with a march past. CM Nitish, deputy CM Sushil Modi, Sigriwal, Saran MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy also addressed the meeting.
 
 
