NEW DELHI: Even as a   is knocking on the court’s doors to get his fourth-month old daughter   — as she suffers from erb’s palsy (a type of paralysis) and required medication through her mother’s milk — the infant’s mother has   to   her  , saying she won’t accept her “for any length of time”.

 The unusual case made its way to a Delhi court as the father sought directions to the mother under a rather rarely invoked Section 75 (cruelty to child) of Juvenile Justice Act for summoning her.
 
 Dubbing the case’s facts as “peculiar”, metropolitan magistrate Abhilash Malhotra on Tuesday stressed on the possibility of a settlement so that the child does not suffer due to her condition and asked the mother to appear before it on May 5. Giving “paramount consideration” to the infant’s health, Malhotra said, “It will be prudent to explore the possibility of settlement with the respondent at this stage, so that the child do not suffer further and the medicines can be administered to her”.
 
 Section 75 of the JJ Act deals with cruelty and even biological parents are covered under this provision. Suppose a biological parent assaults, abandons, abuses, exposes or wilfully neglects the child, he or she could be awarded a three-year jail term or slapped with a Rs 1 lakh fine or both.
 
 In February, this year, the man filed a complaint with the police saying his estranged wife had deserted their daughter on January 12, 2018. “She willingly left her two-month-old daughter at her matrimonial home without even acknowledging the fact that such a small child needs her mother the most..,” his complaint said.
 
 Countering the husband’s allegation, the woman filed a complaint in March, saying she was thrown out of the house. She had sought appropriate action against her husband and his family members alleging cruelty, harassment and even physical abuse. Subsequently, the man moved a plea in the high court urging his wife to accept the child’s custody for three months so that she could be administered medicines through breastfeeding.
 
 The HC order observed that the mother was not willing to accept the child for any length of time. “She submitted that she is allergic to the said medicines and cannot consume the same,” said the March 19 order.
 
 Caught between the warring parents is the innocent infant, struggling with a condition where the nerves in her upper arm are damaged. She ideally requires to be fed by her mother so that there is an intake of two medicines essential for her condition. Going by the court records, the child was born on December 9, 2017 and is currently fourth-month-old and still needs the medication. 
 
 
