By: 
 

 For a first-time MP, Preet Kaur Gill’s has been a dream ride at a dizzying speed. Preet, 44, became the first Sikh woman MP in UK Parliament when she won her Birmingham Edgbaston seat for the Labour party in the snap polls June 2016. A month later, she was elected to sit on the prestigious home affairs select committee. And last week, she was promoted to the post of shadow minister for international development in Jeremy Corbyn’s shadow cabinet reshuffle of the Labour front-benchers.
 
 British-born Preet, who has strong connections with her roots in Jamsher, a village in   district, is keen to work with the   government and to see more investment in Punjab.
 
 However, one thing that troubles her most about Punjab is the dismal drug abuse situation and the almost nonexistent rehabilitation support provided by the government. “This is a conversation I would like to have with the Punjab government, about the need to be serious about the drug addiction issue in Punjab. So many youngsters are getting caught up in it, so many have lost their lives, so many families you hear about who’ve lost a loved one to drugs. It’s a growing phenomenon and it’s sad, very sad,” she says.
 
 Mother of two daughters, Preet is married to  , a social worker in Birmingham. She was born and brought up in Birmingham as her father Daljit Singh had migrated to the UK in 1962.
 
 In her short tenure as an MP, Preet has already made her presence felt in Punjab. She has been vocal about her concern regarding the detention of British citizen Jagtar Singh Johal in Punjab without charges. She was among the Sikhs who protested at the foreign office last year against his arrest, and sought meetings with foreign secretary   to seek his release.
 
 But, she says, asking difficult questions is part of an honest relationship and raising concerns about a British citizen encountering such problems in anywhere in the world is part of international relations.
 
 Preet says she is passionate about the 17 Global Goals for Sustainable Development that guide the work of the UK’s department for international development (DFID) that funnels aid to other countries. She acknowledges she has a lot to learn, and has had to step down from the home affairs select committee to free up time for her new role.
 
 On the issue of UK aid to India, Preet says she’d start off by examining the impact of the programmes that already exist in Orissa and   and then work with Indian government agencies.
 
 Of her 17 goals, Preet seems to be most enthusiastic and driven about education. She was a social worker before she became an MP and worked on a research project with the Unicef in New Delhi many years ago, an experience that formed her passion for education.
 
 After her election as an MP, her team have worked on various campaigns to promote education, including #sendmyfriendtoschool, an initiative by the Global Partnership for Education, a multi-partner organization that supports basic education in 65 developing countries.
 
