PATNA: Consultations and lobbying in state political circles started on Saturday with the Election Commission announcing on Friday election to the 59 Rajya Sabha seats, including six from Bihar, on March 23. The notification for the election will be issued on March 5 while March 12 is the last date for filing nomination papers, which are scheduled to be scrutinized on March 13. March 15 is the last date for withdrawal of candidatures.

 Two of the six seats from Bihar are represented by Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Ravi Shankar Prasad while the one represented by Ali Anwar from JD(U) is already vacant following his disqualification for anti-party activities a few months back. The disqualification of Sharad Yadav as JD(U) Rajya Sabha member is pending before the court. Hence, election for that   has not been announced. Besides Pradhan and Prasad (both of BJP), Mahendra Prasad alias King Mahendra, Bashishtha Narain Singh and Anil Kumar Sahni of JD(U) are completing their terms on April 2. As per rules, a candidate in Bihar requires 35 MLAs to win a Rajya Sabha seat. As RJD has 79 MLAs, it can easily win two seats and transfer the nine surplus votes to its ally Congress, which has 27 MLAs in the state.
 
 The JD(U) has 71 MLAs and can easily win two seats. A party insider said JD(U) national secretary general K C Tyagi might get preference over retiring member Mahendra Prasad.
 
 With its 52 MLAs, the BJP can easily win one seat. Since Pradhan and Prasad both are retiring, the party may shift one of the two to neighbouring Uttar Pradesh where election to 10 Rajya Sabha seats will also be held on March 23, BJP sources said.
 
 State Congress president in charge Kaukab Quadri on Saturday said his party would like to contest one seat in Bihar as the opposition combine of RJD, Congress and CPI(ML) has more than 105 votes required for winning three Rajya Sabha seats. Quadri, however, said a final decision on contesting the election would be taken by the party’s central leadership.
 
 For RJD and JD(U), the final decision on candidates would be taken by their chiefs, Lalu Prasad and Nitish Kumar, respectively.
 
 
