AHMEDABAD: Many parents of student studying in   met the city and   and made representation that they were being threatened that their wards will not be allowed to sit in exams if they did not pay up   with immediate effect.

 The state government was quick to react and warned action against school management, including criminal cases, if schools denied examination hall tickets to students of class X and XII on grounds of non-payment of fees.
 
 Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said, “We warn the schools not to withhold any examination hall ticket for non-payment of fees. If any such case is brought to our notice we will take action against such schools. We cannot tolerate such act by school management and the government will take the act seriously.”
 
 Gaurav Barot of the   said that the DPS Bopal is sending SMSes to parents to pay the remaining fee for the academic year 2017-18 by February 24. Barot said that these SMSes were sent to parents who have not paid their fees as demanded by the schools. “We are willing to pay the fees according to the government upper limit of Rs 15,000, Rs 25,000 and Rs 27,000,” Barot said.
 
 Barot said that the school management has asked students to pay their dues along with a penalty of Rs600 per month for delay in payment of fees. He said, “Since the exams are scheduled to begin from February 23, parents of such students are extremely worried, and we see this as an aggressive and extortionist gesture of the school. We also fear that the school may withhold the admit card for the exams, if the parents do not pay according to the school’s demands.”
 
 Tushar Patel, another parent, said, “DPS Bopal, instead of heeding the new SC ruling is on the path of collision with protesting parents. DPS Bopal parents have decided not to bow to this type of pressure from the school. In one voice, all DPS Bopal parents are united in their decision to pay only according to the previous cap until FRC approves or puts forth a new cap.”
 
 The parents met the district education officer and urged him to take strict, decisive action against the school. The parents in their memorandum said that they have also decided not to pay a single rupee as late fee penalty.
 
 
