MOHALI: On directions of a local court, the   police on Tuesday booked four people, including two brothers, for duping a man of Rs 1.6 crore on the pretext of getting him permanent residency of Canada. 

 The case was registered against Akash Bhalla, Sahil Bhalla,   and Nikhil under Sections 420 and 120-4 of IPC at Kharar City police station.
 
 "We have booked four persons in an immigration fraud case. An FIR has been lodged under Sections 420 and 120-4 of IPC and we have started further investigations," Kharar City SHO Satnam Singh said.
 
 The Bhalla brothers and Anil Kumar are residents of  's Sector 2 and Nikhil is a resident of Kharar.
 
 The complainant,   Kumar, a resident of Sector 4 in Panchkula, claimed one of the accused,   had in 2013 convinced him to invest in his businesses in Canada's Toronto and Brampton cities in return for higher return on his money and a permanent residency in that country.
 
 Anil Bhalla told the complainant that he had to pay Rs 1.6 crore which he would invest in his businesses and, in return, he would ensure a permanent residency in Canada for Anand within two years.
 
 The complainant agreed to give Bhalla Rs 1.6 crore in installments and paid the last one on November 20, 2013.
 
 In 2015, instead of getting his money back and a permanent residency of Canada, the complainant found that he had been falsely involved in a case of dispute over purchase of a flat by Anil Bhalla.
 
 Angry Anand Kumar moved the Mohali district court seeking its intervention to get a case registered against Anil Bhalla and three others for defrauding him.
 
 According to the FIR, the Bhalla brothers have allegedly duped many people on pretext of sending them abroad. One person had committed suicide after being duped, the FIR said, without giving details. This case comes less than a week after the police booked two employees of an immigration firm in Mohali's Phase 3B2 for cheating and forgery. They have been booked under Sections 420, 465, 468, 471 and 120 B of the IPC at Mataur police station.
 
 
