NEW DELHI: At a time when compensation to farmers for land acquisition gets political overtones, the   has asked the   and   high court to reconsider its decision to enhance market value of acquired land at Hansi in   district from Rs 12 lakh to Rs 2 crore per acre, an increase of nearly 17 times.

 
 In 2005, the Haryana government notified acquisition of 229 acres of land in Hansi for residential projects and the compensation per acre was fixed at Rs 12 lakh. The   enhanced it to Rs 48.4 lakh per acre. The state accepted the award but landowners moved the HC for further enhancement. The HC in 2016 enhanced the rate to Rs 2 crore per acre saying the land was situated at prime location and possessed immense potentiality. The Haryana government challenged it in the  .
 
 Additional advocate general Alok Sangwan argued before a bench of Justices Kurian Joseph and Mohan M Shantanagoudar that the HC erred by classifying the land as commercial when in reality it was agricultural land. He also produced sale deeds pertaining to land situated in the midst of the acquired land, which had fetched between Rs 4 lakh and Rs 8 lakh per acre.
 
 Appearing for land owners, counsel   and Manoj Swarup termed the HC order as ‘equitable’ and challenged production of sale deeds by the state government saying these did not reflect the true market value of the land in question. They cited the sale of land by Haryana Urbad Development Authority in favour of government departments at a far higher rate than those depicted in the sale deeds.
 
 Justice Shantanagoudar said: “Having gone through the material on record and after considering the arguments of the advocates, we are of the opinion that the Reference Court, as well as the HC, have not considered the sale deeds produced on behalf of the state for determination of compensation.”
 
 “A chart of the sale deeds on record filed before us by the advocates appearing on behalf of the state reveals prima facie the value of certain land involved in those sale deeds. The site plan of village Hansi depicts such sold patches as being in the middle of the acquired land. The lands in all the sale deeds shown alongside the plan are in close proximity and adjoining to the land acquired under the Section 4 of notification of the present case,” the bench said.
 
 “There is no reason as to why the HC, while coming to its conclusion, has not referred to the sale statistics. If the sale statistics are to be ignored, the HC should have furnished reasons for doing so... In our considered opinion, the method of granting compensation on the basis of cumulative increase as done was not permissible in the facts of the case, in view of the sale deeds produced. The method of working out compensation without considering the evidence on record cannot be said to be justifiable,” the SC said.
 
 
