BENGALURU: A survey conducted among Indian freelancers has found that web and mobile development, web designing, internet research and data entry are their key focus areas, and 23% of those surveyed said they earn between Rs 40 lakh and Rs 45 lakh a year.

 Another 23% earn between Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 5 lakh, while 55 respondents earn below Rs 2.5 lakh, showing that all freelancing jobs do not promise big bucks, and the right set of skills and their application are important.
 
 The mean income, according to the survey by digitalpayments company  , was Rs 19 lakh.
 
  
 Demand for freelancers has been on the rise, and the severe shortage of new-age skills has been encouraging many full-time employees to become independent workers offering their expertise to multiple companies and earning much more than in their erstwhile positions.
 
 “India is today the largest freelancer market in the world and poised for growth. Receiving payments in a timely, safe and secure manner is one of the key concerns for this community. At PayPal, we work closely with freelancers enabling them to leverage the opportunity in India and across the globe,”  , director (growth),  , said.
 
 The survey was done among 500 freelancers. A majority of freelancers are men aged below 40, and who have been working as freelancers for 3 to 5 years. They get their projects mainly from India, but also from  , the US and the UK. Most of those surveyed said the biggest appeal of freelancing lies in its autonomy, while the downsides were irregular income, difficult clients, and an intensely competitive industry.
 
 Most took to freelancing after having heard about it from friends, family, social media and freelancing platforms. Of the reasons that drove them to adopt freelancing, earning more income, flexibility in schedules, and ability to choose who to work for, topped the list.
 
 
 
 
 Freelancers feel they need external support in aspects such as setting up their own website, finding and retaining clients, fee and negotiation advice, protection and insurance.
 
 On Freelancer.com, one of the largest global online platforms where freelancers can offer their services, the number of registered people from India is the highest, at more than 20% of the total. The portal has 5.3 million people from India, and 3.3 million from the US. The startup boom and the changing ethos with respect to job safety and security are also encouraging employees to take up more independent projects.
 
