CHANDIGARH: Miscreants threw   at the New Delhi-Kalka   on Sunday evening, causing panic among passengers.

 Sources said stones were thrown on two coaches between Babarpur and Panipat, damaging a glass pane. In coach number 9, passengers had a narrow escape after glass shards fell all around, while stones hit the area below the windows in coach number 10. A family from Chandigarh sitting near the window in coach number 9 escaped without scratches, all thanks to their two-year-old son. Umang, the city resident, said his wife Surbhi was sitting right next to the window when their son Aarav who was playing with his mobile phone dropped it. “As Surbhi bent to pick up the phone, a stone hit the window pane. There was glass all around. Luckily, none of us was injured,” said Umang. He said this was not the first time the train had been stoned. “I have witnessed similar incidents in the past too. My seats were then far away from where the stones landed. This time, however, it was just touch-and-go. Had my wife not picked up the phone, she would have been injured,” he said.
 
 Passengers said the incident took place around 7.15 pm and those sitting nearby were also in a state of shock. Passengers said the railway protection force officials rushed to the spot and shifted both the mother and child to another seat. Officials said that there is no provision in RPF to register a case but the Panipat government railway police was informed about the incident. Chandigarh GRP officials they could not register a case since the incident did not take place in their jurisdiction.
 
 The train, which had left Delhi around 5.15pm, was delayed by 30 minutes as it reached the Chandigarh railway station at 9.15pm.
 
 Six   Express which ply up and down from New Delhi to Chandigarh have been targeted in the past too. According to officials, children in the age group 9 to 14 years are generally involved in these incidents. At times, the stones have been able to break through the double-glass of the train windows.
 
 On April 2, stones were thrown on the Delhi-Jaipur Shatabdi Express during the Bharat Bandh.
 
 Chandigarh GRP officials said trains have been targeted in city and nearby areas too. They said they have registered six cases of stone pelting from 2014 till 2017. GRP officials said three incidents had taken place near the washing line near   colony and one each near Manimjara, Ghaggar and Chandimandir.
 
 
