CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister   on Saturday dismissed all allegations that under the pilot project for direct benefit transfer for electricity (DBTE) to agriculture consumers, farmers would be forced to make payments. He also announced farm debt waiver for another three lakh farmers before the budget session, which is likely to be held in the second week of March.

 Rather, he said, the the aim of the project is to handle the grave problem of depleting groundwater table in Punjab. He said the opposition was spreading wrong information and no farmers would be charged for power consumption.
 
 The CM said direct benefit had been mooted as a solution to the worsening groundwater problem. He explained under the DBTE scheme, farmers will be paid money in advance directly into their bank account, from which they can pay their electricity bills. He added whatever farmers save from this amount will go into their pockets.
 
 Amarinder explained the idea behind DBTE was not to save electricity, which is surplus, but to save the precious groundwater resource, which is on the brink of disaster. With the scheme, farmers would be motivated to use electricity judiciously, the CM said. The benefits of the scheme were being explained to the farmers, who were voluntarily coming forward to participate in the pilot in their own interest, he added.
 
 Explaining benefits of the DBTE, the chief minister told reporters, the scheme would help the state in promoting crop diversification, saving of precious groundwater, accurate energy accounting resulting in rationalization of subsidy, checking transmission and distribution losses, besides curbing of wasteful energy consumption. 
 
 The Punjab State   Limited (PSPCL) has tied up with J-PAL South Asia and the   to evaluate DBTE for agriculture consumers on six feeders with 990 agriculture pumpset (AP) connections, according to a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office.
 
 
 
 The Punjab chief minister also assured cabinet expansion would be made before the budget which is scheduled in next month. “I want to distribute all the departments to ministers, leaving a few with me, before the budget,” said Amarinder.
 
 
