KOLKATA: Faced with a poor response to the new property tax assessment system, mayor   on Wednesday extended the deadline for a switch from the old regime by six months.

 The new deadline for property tax payers to shift to Unit Area Assessment ( ) is September 30, 2018.
 
 The announcement marked a Uturn from Chatterjee’s initial decision to send fresh tax bills assessed under UAA to taxpayers who did not take the initiative themselves by March 31, 2018. Later, however, the stance softened. With only 60,000 of 7.8 lakh property tax payers applying for UAA, Chatterjee didn’t have a choice, but to announce the extension.
 
 Assessment department officials said most of the applications had come from south Kolkata with hardly any response from the older north and central Kolkata where taxes are low and expected to rise when computed under UAA.
 
 Unlike the last 12 months when   had waited for taxpayers to respond to its appeal, the   will be proactive in the next six months to drive the switch to UAA. Inspectors will be sent to citizens’ doorsteps to hand out UAA forms and briefly explain the complicated sections.
 
 “The plan is to instil confidence in the new system among taxpayers. Camps will be held in boroughs. Facilitators will be deployed in borough offices and e-service centres to help property owners fill the forms against payment of fee. The list of facilitators will be notified to the public in April,” an assessment department official said. Though a fee hasn’t been fixed yet, the facilitation fee may be Rs300-400 per form.
 
 A few facilitators who have undergone training have begun functioning in some localities where the MMiCs are more proactive. One such area is   where at least three facilitators are helping people fill up the complicated UAA form.
 
 While assessment department officials were earlier not inclined to include those who had paid the tax for all four quarters, they too will now be brought under the UAA fold. “If the new tax computed under UAA is found to be less than what the assessee has already paid, the excess amount will be transferred to a suspense account (an account in which items are logged temporarily) from where taxes will be adjusted in future. If, on the other hand, the newly computed tax is more than what has been paid, a fresh bill will be raised and the amount must be paid,” an official explained.
 
 The KMC top brass will review the form to see if it can be simplified. Though the current form is slightly simpler than the one that was first floated, it remains complicated for the average assessee to fill on his or her own.
 
 Officials will also look at how to assess the forms that have been submitted quicker to expedite the process. Till now, only 15,000-odd forms have been processed and recorded with 45,000 still waiting their turn. Though KMC have outsourced the recording work, the pace hasn’t been adequate.
 
 “There have been complications in the software. Multiple parameters also mean that it is taking longer to verify and compute the applications,” an official said.
 
