Nagpur: Even though   is the landmark of Nagpur, neither the state government nor Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) and Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) have done anything to beautify it. Now, Mahametro has decided to make it the hotspot of the city. 

 Along with this landmark, the Gowari Memorial and Martyrs’ Memorial will also be covered under the Heritage Walk project. The walk, surrounded by trees and having seating spaces, will link all the monuments old and new.
 
 The old British Residency building will be renovated and its ground floor would be converted into an exhibition hall or art gallery. A peace plaza would be constructed near the Gowari Memorial.
 
 Shival Manchanda and Atri Joshi, architects of French firm Enia, have proposed to build a survey museum — Sarvekshan Sangrahalaya — near the Zero Mile pillar. The museum will house instruments used for survey in 19th century and old photographs. It will be tribute to the surveyors who mapped India.
 
 Artist Rubel Nagi has designed an artwork #NagpurMetro, which is yet to be inaugurated. Mahametro hopes that the artwork will become a backdrop for taking pictures and posting them on social media. This is an international way of promoting a city and monument. This artwork will be located near the present Mahametro information centre.
 
 A part of this Heritage Walk passes through a dense green area in which the designer has proposed to preserve existing trees. On display will be the list of trees with their botanical and common names, height, girth, and canopy. The existing trees will be retained and native trees will be added to enrich the urban environment.
 
 A major task for the Mahametro officials will be to evict beggars who have shifted to Zero Mile area from Kasturchand Park.
 
 URBAN SPINE OR WALL OF HISTORY
 
 The urban spine will connect the station to Zero Mile passing through Shaheed Smarak and Gowari Memorial. It will also create a new backdrop ‘Wall of History’. This wall is conceptualized as a symbol for the Sitabuldi Fort located right across on the Sitabuldi Hill. The wall will be inscribed with important events in the history of Nagpur. City historians will be contacted for choosing these events
 
 BRITISH RESIDENCY BUILDING
 
 The building, a heritage structure, located right next to the proposed site for Heritage Walk will be preserved and the ground floor will be converted into an exhibition space for visitors or an art gallery. The landscape plaza will extend around the building passing through various levels and features. As large number of visitors are expected to visit this complex, the exhibition hall/art gallery will get decent footfalls. This in turn would ensure maintenance of the residency building.
 
 MUSEUM OF SURVEY
 
 A survey museum, Sarvekshan Sanghralya, has been proposed at the culmination point of the Heritage Walk acting as a backdrop to the Zero Mile stone. Various important moments in history of Survey of India, various old and new instruments used for survey will be displayed for interest of students, visitors and common people. Mahametro will contact Survey of India for getting old photographs and instruments. It will be a tribute to surveyors who worked hard for mapping India.
 
 #NAGPURMETRO ARTWORK
 
 #NagpurMetro, an artwork by a Mumbai-based designer Rubel Nagi, will also become important part of the project. Visitors can take photographs and share it on social media. #NagpurMetro will be a platform on Twitter for sharing experiences about Nagpur Metro and the Heritage Walk project. This is an international way of promoting a city. Such artworks exist in cities like Kuala Lumpur and many European metropolises.
 
 ZERO MILE STATION
 
 The station is the most important link of this project. The proposed landmark building on top of the Zero Mile station will act as an urban marker. It will be a 20-storey building. There will be four parking levels — two in the basement, one each on ground and mezzanine floors. The first floor will have the station, the second to have platforms and the third will have space for technical operations of the Metro. Above this would be commercial space comprising hotels, offices, shops, banquet halls, restaurants, etc
 
 
