NAGPUR: Fancied teams registered victories in the   competition of   which got underway at the New English High School ground, Congress Nagar, here on Monday.

 
 
  thrashed   17-6 in the sub-junior girls category.   (6 pts) and Yashasvi Choudhary (1) played for four minutes for the winners. Yashasvi was later declared player-of-the-match.
 
 However in the junior category, Chhatrapati Yuvak Krida Mandal girls outclassed Vidarbha Krida Mandal by an innings and 15 points. Player-of-the-match Ashwini Game, Ayushi Davre, Rani Rewatkar and Deepali Sabane fashioned Chhatrapati Yuvak KM win.
 
 In the the boys category, Yuvak Krida Mandal defeated Nav Mahrashtra Krida Mandal by an innings and three points. For the winners, Pranay Shende, Rahul Satame and Diskhit Neware performed well. For his splendid display, Neware was declared man-of-the-match.
 
 International shuttler Arundhati Pantawane, convener Sandeep Joshi, Nagesh Sahare, Padmakar Charmode and other district kho-kho association officials were present during the inaugural ceremony.
 
 Qidwai pip Big Ben at the post
 
 Qidwai Club edged out Big Ben Club 5-4 via tie-breaker to launch their campaign on a winning note in the Inter-Club Football tournament, organized under Khasdar Krida Mahotsav, at the SECR Motibagh ground here on Monday.
 
 The score was nil at the end of regulation period. Both the teams had chances but they failed to convert those opportunities into goals.
 
 In the resulting penalty shoot-out, Rahul Mundri, Kashif Ansari, Mohd Nayeem, Mohd Salim and Shaquib Jamal converted their spot kicks for Qidwai Club.
 
 For Big Ben Club, Atul Neware, Arjun Roka, Abdul Gaffar and Anshuman Nagose succeeded in scoring their penalties but one of their teammates missed the target which cost them dearly. Big Ben’s Anshul Yadav was adjudged as the man-of-the-match.
 
 Earlier, chief guest Atal Bahadur Singh inaugurated the tourney. South Nagpur MLA Dr Milind Mane, convener of Khasdar Krida Mahotsav Sandeep Joshi, Navneet Singh Tuli, Nagesh Sahara, Bhojraj Dumbe, Harish Vora, Iqbal Kashmiri, Salim Baig and other NDFA officials were present on the occasion.
 
 On Tuesday, Nagpur Junior will take on Rabbani Club at 6 pm, while City Police will clash with Ansar Club at 8 pm.
 
 CAPTION: Chhatrapati Krida Mandal (left) player tries to catch Vidarbha Youth Krida Mandal Katol player during the opening day match of the Khasdar Krida Mahotsav kho-kho tournament at the New English High School ground on Monday
 
 
