Chandigarh: Almost seven years after President of India had revoked the chargesheet against whistleblower   (IFS) officer   on recommendations of the central government, the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked if the Union of India had such powers.

 In a specific query to the secretaries, Union ministry of environment and forests (MOEF) and the department of personnel and training (DOPT), HC has asked them to file independent affidavit explaining “whether Union of India can interfere in a disciplinary matter of a member service of a state in between initiation of disciplinary action till final order is passed in the disciplinary proceedings under the All India Service (Disciplinary and Appeal) Rules, 1969 — for short Rules, 1969 —or not.
 
 In its detailed orders, Justice P B Bajanthri of the HC has also asked “whether Union of India vested with suo motu power to interfere with the chargesheet filed against member service or non-statutory representation or memorial can be entertained and chargesheet can be set aside? If it is so, under which provisions of Rules, 1969, empowers Union of India to interfere in the matter…”
 
 Queries from Justice Bajanthri has come in the wake of a petition filed by Haryana government for quashing the President's orders and the Central government panel’s recommendations for a CBI probe into the scams exposed by Magsaysay awardee Chaturvedi.
 
 The matter would now come up for further hearing on February 20.
 
 In its petition, Haryana has been contending that the MOEF had illegally constituted a committee that had given clean chit to Chaturvedi and indicted state government officials. It has also been contended by Haryana that the committee had submitted a report casting aspersions against its officials without giving them any opportunity of hearing. The state has been contending that the orders of central government were unconstitutional and violated the principles of natural justice.
 
 Counsel for Chaturvedi has been arguing that the case filed by Haryana challenging orders passed by Central government was not maintainable in the HC because such cases can only be filed directly in the   under Article 131 of the Constitution of India. It has also been argued that the order under challenge was implemented three years prior to the filing of this petition and therefore, the writ petition was not maintainable.
 
 Story so far
 
 The MOEF’s report of the two-member panel comprising inspector general of forest A K Srivastava and Shally Ranjan had indicted the offices of then chief minister Bhupinder Hooda and senior bureaucrats for fabricating false charges against Chaturvedi and had recommended a CBI inquiry. Subsequently, the President had revoked the chargesheet against Chaturvedi on January 19, 2011. In 2014, the then Hooda-led government had approached the HC for quashing panel’s report. However, the Manohar Lal Khattar-led   government in Haryana initially decided to withdraw it in May 2016 but later endorsed the petition filed by the Hooda government.
 
 
