CHANDIGARH: The growing tribe of birders in Tricity have bagged the first record of the Pacific golden plover, reckoned as an “aristocrat” among migratory shorebirds. The transiting avians were taking a short break in a maize field at Rehmapur village in  , 8 km from Chandigarh, and were “passage migrants” on a long haul from the coasts, across Eurasia to the Siberian tundra, for summer breeding. 

 
  
 
 Keen birder and organic   Manbir Singh photographed the pair of plovers on Friday. His photograph spurred experienced birders to rush to the spot on Saturday and Sunday to photograph the rare pair, but the plovers had flown further north by then. Singh's efforts are all the more creditable because none less than Dr Salim Ali had considered this species as “excessively wary and difficult to approach”.
 
 In a parallel sighting, four Lesser sand plovers were briefly observed at Sukhna lake on May 13, 2018, constituting another new record for the Inter-State Capital Region (ISCR), which encompasses the region falling within a 50km radius of Chandigarh. The Pacific plover’s record takes the checklist of the ISCR’s avian diversity to 431. In earlier years, the Kentish plover and Little ringed plover have been recorded in the ISCR. 
 
 Plovers are shorebirds, sticking to the waterline for feeding and foraging in the wake of receding tides when they migrate to coastal regions of India and other nations as far down south as New Zealand in winter.
 
 The species has been aptly described by I N Gabrielson and F C Lincoln in the book, The birds of Alaska: “The Golden Plover is an aristocrat among birds. Everything about it is distinctive. The jet black breast and belly, the golden yellow back and striking head markings of the breeding plumage would in themselves be enough to set it apart in any assemblage of its relatives. In addition, it has rather stately and dignified movements in contrast to the darting hasty nervousness of so many shorebirds whether feeding, migrating or on the breeding grounds. The downy chicks are also among the loveliest of all young birds, their yellow backs being startlingly different from the usual blacks, browns and grays affected by most newly hatched youngsters of the shorebird clan.”
 
 The Pacific plover is one of the world's longest non-stop, transoceanic flight migrants and a one-way migration journey ranges between 5,000km-13,000km. Despite such long flights to and fro from breeding grounds in the tundra, the species shows a high degree of nest-site fidelity and returns to the same nest cup or to within 100m of the previous year’s site. It breeds on inland Arctic habitats, including shrub tundra, montane tundra and stony well-drained.
 
 
