Bhopal: In a chilling incident, as many as seven students aged between 6-10 years were thrashed and made to kneel by a government school teacher for failing to answer a question.

 The students study in Class 2 in   middle school in   block of district Satna. The teacher, identified as Rajnesh Diwedi, allegedly got angry at them when they could not answer a question. “He took out his stick and started beating the children on their back. One of them has received bruises on his back and marks of stick were visible on the skin of students,” reads the complaint filed at   police station.
 
 The pictures of the children were circulated on social network. The red marks where the stick hit the skin are easily visible in the photographs. According to the head master of the school,  , parents of four out of the seven kids reached the Amarpatan police station, to lodge a complaint against the teacher. The matter was later resolved on ‘mutual understanding’, said a source.
 
 “It is a small issue. Th teacher gave the students mild punishment for not doing their work. Then their mothers came to school and withdrew their complaint on mutual understanding.
 
 Interestingly, Satna’s district education officer (DEO), B S Deshlehra, had no idea of the incident. “It has not been reported to me yet. I will check with my officers and order a probe in the matter. Even if no FIR has been launched, no teacher has a right to beat children,” he said.
 
 According to city  , the school education department was informed — time and again — about the increasing incidences of corporal punishment, coming from Satna and other districts. But, no heed was paid to the issue.
 
 “We have written many times to principal secretary school education to intervene in the matter. We provided them proof and urged the officials to take action but our plea fell to deaf ears,” said PRO Child Rights Observatory Nilesh Dubey. He said that the   also provided the department with a report on the corporal punishment data, but to no avail.
 
 The Right to Education (RTE) Act defines corporal punishment as physical and mental harassment. It is illegal and liable to punishment under sections 17(1) and 17(2). According to a 2007 report by Ministry of Women and Child Development, two out of three children are physically abused in India. Boys at 73 percent are only slightly more than girls at 65 percent to face physical abuse.
 
 Last year, some 40 incidents, wherein teachers were involved in corporal punishment were reported at Madhya Pradesh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (MPCPCR) in just two months.
 
 
