AMRITSAR: Following the conviction of   accused, who threw acid on five girls in   district, family of one the victims is preparing for another long-drawn battle to seek compensation for treatment expenses. “Family of   has spent around Rs 2.5 lakh on her treatment so far, which is going to continue, so now our focus will be on seeking adequate compensation for her from the government,” Vinod Basa, counsel for the victims, told TOI on Thursday.

 Vinod and his brother   are providing pro bono services to the acid attack victims. He said if the victim didn’t get relief from the local court then they would move the Punjab and Haryana high court, seeking compensation for Prabhjot. He further said that Prabhjhot had 5% and 1% total body surface area (TBSA) burns on face and neck, 8% patchy burns on right forearm and 3% TBSA on chest and trunk.
 
 On March 16, 2016, Sajan Masih and Lovepreet Singh had flung acid on Prabhjot, who along with five girls, all residents of Dharambad village, were on their way to home from school after appearing in an exam. “Prabhjot had sustained major burns while rest of the girls had small burns,” said Vinod.
 
 On Wednesday, Gurdaspur additional sessions judge   had awarded Sajan and Lovepreet 18 and 15 years jail term, respectively, while the court had acquitted third accused Santokh Singh. Satnam Singh, brother of Prabhjot, said, “We are not rich people but earn our livelihood from a small piece of agriculture land and we have spent over Rs 2.5 lakh on treatment.”
 
 He said that his sister remained admitted at Dera Baba Nanak and Amritsar hospitals and was currently taking treatment from a private hospital in Ludhiana. “The doctors are nice, they have exempted their fee but still we have to spend on medical tests, medicines and other sundry expenses, which is very difficult for us to arrange,” he said. He added that he had heard of government compensating acid attack victims but expressed dismay that no one from the state government had extended a helping hand towards her sister.
 
 Vinod stated that they would be challenging acquittal of third accused Santokh in court. 
 
 
