MUMBAI: A south Mumbai college student was accosted and flashed at by a man in the   cinema   last Friday. The girl complained to the college principal, who has now written to the   and police authorities about it. It is the third such molestation incident in the subway that students have reported, the principal said.

  
  
 “It is our sincere request that action be initiated to put an end to this menace immediately. Please do not compel our students to once again make a petition to the state government authorities and to the press,” states the letter.
 
 “We have registered an FIR under sections 354 (outraging the modesty of a woman) and 509 (gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the IPC against unknown persons. We are now looking for the accused,” said Manoj Shama, the zonal DCP.
 
 When TOI contacted the principal, he said with such security concerns, the students are taking the risk of crossing the busy junction on the ground level. “This is a real nightmare for the students. Currently, since examinations are on, we do not want to get involved, but in case of no action being taken, we may need to petition the chief minister,” said the principal.
 
 The BMC said   cameras have been placed in the subway at a cost of Rs 11.7 lakh after such incidents in the past. “There are 32 cameras in the nine passages. However, when we checked the footage, the incident could not be traced. We have encouraged the college authorities to file a complaint with the police. We too have sought help from the local police,” said Kiran Dighavkar, the assistant municipal commissioner of A ward.
 
 It is being said that none of the cameras cover the staircase where the incident occurred. The principal too mentioned that the CCTVs do not seem to have deterred the antisocial elements.
 
 On Tuesday when TOI visited the spot, there was only one guard on duty monitoring the CCTV feed. He said five guards patrol the subway till 9.30pm, but several were not around since duty hours had changed and they had not arrived yet.
 
 “We are collecting information about the suspect and trying to find out who loiter in the area. We will soon zero in on the suspect,” said a police official. He rued that the BMC had not given them access to the subway cameras.
 
 (With inputs from Mateen Hafeez)
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
