MUMBAI: There will be a megablock on Central Railway main line from Thane to Kalyan on down fast line from 10.30am to 3.30pm on Sunday.

 The down fast and semi-fast services leaving   Mumbai from 09.25am to 2.54pm will halt at Ghatkopar, Vikhroli, Bhandup and Mulund stations in addition to their respective scheduled halts. 
 
 Down fast trains beyond Thane will be diverted on down slow line between Thane and Kalyan halting at all stations and will arrive to their destination 20 minutes behind schedule.
 
 The up fast/semi fast line services leaving Kalyan station from 10.37am to 3.06pm will halt at Diva, Mulund, Bhandup, Vikhroli, Ghatkopar and Kurla stations in addition to their respective scheduled halts and will arrive to their destination 15 minutes behind schedule.
 
 All down and up slow locals leaving/arriving Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus from 11am to 5pm will arrive destination 10 minutes behind schedule.
 
 
 
 
 Brace for a rail block on the Harbour Line between Kurla and Vashi from 11.10am to 4.10pm. This could cause inconvenience to the commuters travelling from Navi Mumbai to Mumbai.
 
 Special local trains will run on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus - Kurla and Vashi - Panvel sections during the block period. Harbour Line passengers are also permitted to travel via Trans-Harbour/Main Line from 10am to 4.30pm.
 
 Due to these blocks, suburban trains are likely to be more crowded than usual. 
 
 “Passengers are requested not to take any risks while travelling. They are also requested to avoid travelling on footboard, rooftop of locals and not to board extremely over crowded trains,” said an official. “These maintainence blocks are essential for infrastructure upkeep and safety,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 There will be no day block on the Western Railway suburban section on Sunday.
 
 To carry out maintenance work of tracks, signal and overhead equipment, a block of 3 hours each was undertaken from 11.45pm to 2.45am on up fast line and from 1.30am till 4.30am on Sunday on the down fast line between Vasai Road and Vaitarna, an official said.
 
 During the block, all up and down mail and express trains were delayed by 15 to 30 minutes.
 
  “Since we carried out an overnight rail block, we are not having a jumbo block during daytime,” an official stated.
 
