CHENNAI:   became the first Indian paddler to grab the world No.2 spot in the boys' under-18 category of the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) rankings.   of Chinese Taipei holds the No. 1 spot while China's   is in third spot.

 The 17-year-old Surat boy has been in brilliant form for the last one year and has bagged two Pro-tour gold medals in Slovenia and Indian Open and finished runners-up in Thailand Open last year. A few more wins at the international level will brighten Manav's chances to climb to the top spot. Manav has also broken into the top-15 in the boys' U-21 rankings.
 
 "It feels great to become first Indian to grab the second spot. I've been playing well and was confident of breaking into top-10 but never thought of becoming No.2 in the world in such a short time. But now I've bigger a challenge and I'll have to better my performance to grab the top spot, which is my current goal,'' Manav, who is taking part in the ongoing Junior and Youth National Table Tennis Championships in Durgapur (West Bengal), told 
 .
 
 Manav, who started playing table tennis at the age of 6 under the guidance of   at   in Surat, began to show his talent at an early stage and impressed everyone by bagging a triple crown in the state meet (cadet, sub-junior and junior) in Surat way back in 2010.
 
 Manav feels his areas of strength are his aggressive game and never-say-die attitude. "I am an attacking player and am not afraid of taking risks when it matters. I go for my shots and try to put my opponents under pressure by playing the ball at their bodies. I've strong a mental makeup and I don't give up a match so easily. I always fight till the end,'' the paddler added.
 
 Apart from Manav, there are as many as 17 India players broke into the top-50 of the world rankings in different categories. Among other successes, recently crowned junior national champion Payas Jain has climbed to the 11th spot, and right behind him is Jeho H at No. 12. Another entrant into the top 50 -   - is at the 46th spot.
 
 Snehit S (24),   (33),   (36) and   (43) also promise big things, making it into the upper echelons of the U-18 ITTF rankings. Another Gujarati lad in fray is  , who is placed No. 47 in the U-21rankings. In the girls' U-18 category, Bengaluru lass Archana Girish Kamath has has also moved up smartly from 34 to 18. Chennai girl Selena Selvakumar has also been quietly inching up and is now at No. 37.
 
