A thing of beauty is a joy forever, and a source of constant appreciation for its artist. 

 But not for  . Waves sweep away his creations in no time, but one thing they have not been able to wipe out is the name he has earned as a notable sand artist of the State.
 
 Deepak, who hails from Kannur and is now settled in Mukkola in Thiruvananthapuram, has been persistently using Shanghumugham beach as his canvas ever since 2006 and has created more than 150 sculptures so far, from Mahatma Gandhi to dancers Shanta and Dhananjayan, recently.
 “I use the spoons and stem of ice-creams, and my own nails, shaped to suit the need, as the tools to carve figures out of the sand,” says the 39-year-old artist, who is a BFA holder from Fine Arts College, Thiruvananthapuram. He has also exhibited his skills at various exhibitions across South India, including in Madurai, Chennai, Coimbatore and more.
 
 Unlike other artistic pursuits, sand sculpting is a lot more tough and most of all, sans any return. That is not something that bothers Deepak. “Even while playing in the sand at a younger age for fun, I remember having this idea of creating bigger figures on the sand. It’s always been a matter of passion. Initially, I used to visit the beach every week and carve something random out of the sand. Later, it became an excuse at various special occasions to sculpt on the sand,” he recalls.
 
 It’s the sculpture of Gandhiji that he has attempted most number of times, including the one that was 100 ft wide created in 2007. “It took a whole day and the team work of 45 people,” he recalls. His latest work, of dancers Shantha and Dhanajayan, was unveiled a few days ago. “The veteran artistes also hail from my native place and I was happy to see them moved by the sculpture, when they came to unveil it a few days ago. That’s the whole point and the only satisfaction out of this art that I am looking for.”
 
 It takes around three and a half hours to normally finish a sculpture, he says. “At times, it can collapse midway. I used to initially feel bad about such unforeseen impediments and also about the sculpture getting washed away within no time. Later, I learnt to look at it philosophically and I understand that not everything is in my control,” he says.
 
 Deepak has a team that helps him to put together his sculptures. Most of them don’t have any experience as artists, and have joined him out of sheer curiosity about sand art. “There is a lot of work to be done before making a sand sculpture. First, we have to amass the sand required. My team does it on my instructions and also keeps heaping the soil at various places as we make the sculpture. Just like me, it’s the pure passion to create something artistic that drives them. All I give them is, at times, tea or coffee and if I offer them money when I can, they don’t take it,” says Deepak, who is also working at the Farm Information Bureau as a designer for the past seven years.
 
 What makes the sand sculpture different is that it is usually born right in front of spectators. “When people come to know that I am carving something, they come to watch, especially if it is a holiday. In such cases, it is not very easy to create the sculpture in front of them. However, it is an interesting experience as after all, it’s made for them and the interest they display in my work is my reward.”
 Deepak says his family, consisting of wife and two children, are very supportive of his pursuit and that is what keeps him going. 
 
 
