INDORE: A   has forced civic body to   a   removed by it in ward number73 of the city on Wednesday. The civic body removal wing had on Tuesday morning removed the hoarding which was installed by corporator Sadiq Khan near Manik Bagh bridge area. 

 When Khan learnt that the hoarding put by him was removed by civic body, he approached Indore municipal corporation ( ) authorities and raised objection over it. Following this, officials instructed the staff to reinstall the hoarding at its place. 
 
 Khan claimed that the hoarding was installed as part of the IMC’s ward-wise survey campaign and it did not contain any misleading or political information. “It was not installed for any political gain instead it was meant to generate awareness about cleanliness. When Mayor can install hoarding across the city, why a corporator cannot do the same,” said Khan while speaking to TOI. 
 
 When he approached the officials of removal wing they were unable to give a valid reason behind the action. Annoyed over the civic body’s unjustified action, Khan approached IMC additional commissioner Devendra Singh and explained the matter. He even questioned about giant size hoarding installed by civic body authorities across the city. 
 
 Singh in turn enquired about the issue and after listening to Khan’s explanation, instructed the officials concerned to reinstall the hoarding. “We did not find any problem with that hoarding and it has been reinstalled at its place,” said Singh. 
 
 Official sources said that the action was taken on instruction of IMC removal officer Rajnesh Pancholia. “The hoarding was installed on gantry and had covered the road directions mentioned on it. Therefore it was removed. Now, it has been reinstalled in a proper manner,” said Pancholia. 
 
 This is not the first time when IMC officials and opposition members have entered into a tiff. Earlier, IMC opposition members led by leader of opposition Fozia Sheikh Alim had raised objection over mayor’s hoarding and removed it from Regal square area forcefully. “Before removing hoardings of corporators, they should first remove hoardings of mayor which have been installed at hundreds of places. It seems nothing but a silly act to harass Congress corporators,” said Alim. 
 
 
