LUDHIANA: After 23 years since directions were issued by the local bodies department, the civic officials have been reminded of declaring three areas  , Bajwa Nagar and Kalyan Nagar as commercial areas. 

 The officials are now planning to serve notices to these industrial units for paying   change of land use (CLU) charges applicable from 1995 onwards. However, the matter will first go for approval from the general house of MC and senior officials. The industrialists should nevertheless be ready for shelling out money to the department. 
 
 As per the officials, these three areas were earlier part of town planning scheme but in 1995 the local bodies department, while issuing a letter, had declared these areas commercial. The orders were issued for other areas as well like Millar Ganj, Part A and C, Ghumar Mandi, Ram Park and adjoining localities. Interestingly, the officials declared these areas commercial and also recovered the CLU charge but neglected the orders for the former three areas, and the officials are tight lipped over the reasons as to why they failed to implement the orders in 1995 itself. 
 
 The assistant town planner (headquarter) S S Bindra said, “The matter has come to my knowledge now and we will take up the matter with MC commissioner and other house members.” Regarding negligence on the part of officials, he said it was difficult to say anything about the same. 
 
 Meanwhile, the officials are expecting huge revenue generation through   recovery from these units. As per the rough estimates of MC, there are over 1000 industrial units in these areas and CLU charges are around Rs 4000 per square yards. The department is eyeing somewhere around Rs 20 to 30 crore from the same. The officials are preparing a report in this matter. 
 
 Notably, in these areas most of the industrial and semi-industrial units are functional but the MC has not been benefiting by getting the CLU charges. After the reminder, the MC plans to take up the matter freshlu and start recovery of pending CLU charges as well. 
 
 Story behind the reminder: 
 
 A complaint filed by Sunder Nagar resident RK Jain against a factory owner brought the attention of the MC officials to the letter. Jain had filed a complaint for closing down an industrial unit in area after which officials were forced to check previous records of the area. 
 
 
