GURUGRAM: A mini-truck loaded with Amazon   was allegedly robbed in the early hours of Thursday in Bilaspur on NH-8. The truck, carrying cell phones, shoes and clothing worth lakhs, was headed towards Noida from Tawdu warehouse when four armed men on a   waylaid it near the defunct  .

 The crime took place around 2.30am on Thursday, minutes after driver Karpal Singh left the   warehouse for Noida, police said.
 
 As soon as Singh stopped the truck, the robbers whipped out guns and signalled him to get off the vehicle and sit in their car. While two of them drove the car holding Singh hostage at gunpoint, the other two hijacked the truck and drove it away. The robbers later left the truck near Kherki Daula after unloading nearly 75% of the goods.
 
 “The other two robbers drove me around for an hour and then took the Indigo to an isolated spot near  , where they dumped me,” Singh told cops.
 
 Singh immediately contacted Amazon and the truck owner, and also informed police. It was only a couple of hours later when the driver and vehicle owner started searching for the truck, did they find it abandoned on the highway near Kherki Daula.
 
 Later, both of them went to   and lodged a complaint. The vehicle belongs to a private transporter engaged by Amazon for ferrying goods, said police.
 
 Based on the driver’s complaint, an FIR has been registered against unidentified robbers under sections 365 (kidnap), 392 (robbery), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of IPC and sections 25-54-59 of Arms Act at Bilaspur police station.
 
 “We have taken the vehicle into custody. We have also informed Amazon and their officials will be submitting us a list of stolen items,” said Arun Kumar, SHO of Bilaspur police station.
 
 Police said they were scanning the CCTV footages of nearby areas to identify the accused. “We have formed a special team to probe the robbery. We hope the accused will be arrested soon,” said Beer Singh, ACP, Pataudi.
 
 Amazon could not be contacted, despite several attempts.
 
 
