KOCHI: Local fund audit department has found that the corporation wasted at least Rs 36 lakh by purchasing two buses and ordering a chassis for another one.

 Of the two buses purchased by urban poverty alleviation department (UAPD) of the corporation as part of empowering women, one remains idle at  .
 
 Though the local body paid for the chassis it was not procured.
 
 During 2013-14, corporation decided to provide buses to six  . As only three units expressed willingness to operate these buses, the civic body paid Rs 8 lakh each for three chassis.
 
 Three community development societies (CDS) of   (south CDS, east CDS and west CDS) were to operate the buses. Of these, west CDS backed out. Then, corporation asked the vehicle dealer to deliver only two chassis.
 
 The auditors found that the third one was not delivered and corporation had spent Rs 6 lakh each for body building of two buses.
 
 Both buses started services in 2015; the one operated by east CDS stopped its service after a few months and the bus was left to rust at   for the past two-and-a-half years. The bus operated by south CDS is all set to end operation due to multiple reasons.
 
 “We are running on loss due to various reasons. We were given temporary permit which ended after two years. Then, motor vehicles department (MVD) seized the bus citing that we conducted service without a permit,” said Rahna Mohammed, one member of south CDS bus service.
 
 “Though we applied for permit for resuming operations, MVD couldn’t issue permit due to objections from other buses plying on the same route. Now, we operate service when private buses on the route are taken for repairs. Though we are unable to conduct services on a regular basis, we are bound to pay periodic taxes and insurance,” she said.
 
 UAPD officials said there were multiple reasons for not conducting the services. “East CDS which stopped the service when one of its members died and two others developed serious health problems,” said the official.
 
 “In the case west CDS, a vigilance case proved to be the hindrance. It was when we were all set to hand over a bus to the unit that the vigilance wing registered a case against them. According to a complaint, the members had received multiple benefits from the corporation. There are many conditions for selecting members of a unit which is to operate bus service. At least one member each should possess driving licence and conductor licence. It is very difficult to identify such women,” the official said.
 
 Interestingly, all the workers of the only bus which conducts service (south) are men. Members of CDS and officials claimed that it was a difficult job for the women to operate the bus on their own.
 
 Though Kudumbashree in some other local bodies also made similar experiments in bus operation, all except Maradu municipality ceased services soon.
 
 At first Kudumbashree at Maradu operated the services deploying all women crew. Later, all the women crew abandoned the job.
 
 
