INDORE: Khargone PG College 50 students approached DAVV vice chancellor on Tuesday demanding   of BSc computer science fifth semester answer sheets. The results came out as a shock for 127 students since they failed in their main subject and allowed to keep term ( ).

 In the meeting that went on for more than an hour, it was concluded that revaluation of five students will be done in next ten days and in case of more than 10 per cent increase in the marks, the revaluation of the rest of the students will be done free of cost.
 
  “The students don’t study. We’ve agreed upon re-checking five copies. We’ve asked the students to give us five names and their roll numbers. If we find difference of more than 10 per cent in all the copies, only then we will get the revaluation of all the students done free of cost,” vice chancellor NK Dhakad said.
 
 Speaking about the issue, student union president Dakshika Garhwal said, there are students who have been scoring well all through and they have got failed in the main subject only in this semester.
 
 “How can this be possible? The students who had been expecting good marks have also failed. There is something wrong with the checking,” said student union secretary Shivani Patel.
 
 Of 150 BSc computer science students, 127 including, some rank holders, failed. Megha Sharma, who had been scoring above 70 per cent in all her semester, became an ATKT student for the first time. “I was expecting 60 plus in the subject and I have got 24 out of 85. There are flaws in the checking,” she said.
 
 Some of the topper, who cleared the exam, scored too less and were not happy with the checking. Ayushi Patidar, who has been the class topper for two years, scored less only in computer science. “I was expecting 60 plus. But, I have got 40 marks. We want all the copies to be rechecked so that the students don’t face any loss.”
 
 The revaluation charges vary from Rs 300 to Rs500 depending upon different subjects, however, the university will re-evaluate the first five copies free of cost. 
 
 
