CHANDIGARH: As Aam Aadmi Party ( ) desperately looks for ways to revive itself in Punjab, the newly-appointed in-charge of   affairs,  , on Monday asked party’s three prominent faces in the state — MLAs Sukhpal Singh Khaira,   and MP Bhagwant Mann — to put up a united front.

 While assuring that there will be no interference from the high command, Sisodia, who is also the Delhi deputy CM, discussed ways to strengthen the party ahead of Shahkot byelection and the Lok Sabha elections next year.
 
 The meeting in Delhi was attended by a group of party legislators and zonal in-charges from Punjab.
 
 Before Sisodia’s appointment in last December, the state unit did not have an observer for eight months and there had been reports that the party had lost cohesion in the meantime, with senior leaders trying to outdo each other with competing ambitions.
 
 Meanwhile, a proposal by a group of state leaders to constitute a working committee that could take up local issues on a regular basis was also discussed and Sisodia reportedly asked the state leaders to come up with a detailed plan in the next meeting.
 
 Sources said during Sisodia’s first meeting with local leaders last month, it was pointed out that there was discontent among certain party volunteers for not being accommodated in the recently-constituted organizational structure of the state unit. “Various wings of the state unit, including legal wing and social media wing, are to be reconstituted in coming weeks. That is why all party volunteers have not been absorbed in the primary structure and they will be playing a constructive role in a different capacity,” he said.
 
 Sisodia said he would be there as a guide and a link between the state unit, the political affairs committee and national convener  . “He has asked the local leaders to look into various ways to strengthen the party,” said Aman Arora, party’s co-president. 
 
 Sisodia was made the Punjab affairs in-charge on December 19 and had not held any meeting in the state so far. During his visit to   recently, he had held a one-on-one meeting with MLAs to get feedback.
 
 In the last Lok Sabha election, AAP had won four Lok Sabha seats—Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur and Patiala—getting 25% of the votes. 
 
 
