For a long time, some professions were considered suitable only for men or were at least dominated only by them. But recently, several women around us have been breaking the stereotypes by entering the so-called male-bastions and coming uo trumps.

 Over the course of the past few years, we’ve seen women become auto rickshaw drivers, salon shop owners, entrepreneurs and more. But they had to endure a lot of challenges that included threats, ridicule and discouragement from the society in their journey.
 
 On the occasion of International Women’s Day, TOI spoke to few such women, who fought against the odds to pursue their passion.
 
 In more than 60 years since its formation, Trichy railway division, for the first time, appointed two women as guards on trains, a few months ago. One of the guards, A  , who’s a native of Lalgudi, stated that she was proud to pursue the profession. "People get surprised whenever they notice me in the break van since they aren’t used to seeing women guards usually – I feel a sense of pride looking at their reaction," she said.
 
 Devi, who has been in the railways for more than four years, said, "I was appointed as a guard for goods trains six months ago. The main challenge is that we don’t have toilet or drinking water facility in the break van," she said. Devi said that it took a while in the beginning to convince her parents. "We get duty at any time and are notified only two hours before. Because of this, my parents had worried a lot about my safety initially."
 
 On the other hand, for P K Sheethal, another guard who hails from Kerala, living afar from her husband and children is her only worry. "Since our job needs me to be ready 24X7, I don’t get enough time to talk to my family members. That apart, I really love my job," she said.
 
 For women to enter into the field of business, only the initial days would be very hard to survive, claimed S  , who runs  , which manufactures disposal products used in hospitals. "I initially started the company to manufacture sanitary napkins, but it was difficult to compete with the multinational companies," she said. Her company comprises eight employees – all women – who take care of all the processes from manufacturing to marketing and sales.
 
 "Being a small company, the challenge is bargaining. Since I am a woman, many hospitals actually encourage us by giving orders," Thilagavathy said. She added that the business had been going successful.
 
 Entering a male-dominated profession can sometimes also be very intimidating for some. When Gracy   decided to help her family by becoming an auto rickshaw driver, she was threatened by a few drivers that ‘she would be a victim of acid attack if it affected their business.’ "I have seven sisters and I decided to become an auto driver because my family was in financial crisis. Since I got threats from a few auto drivers, I couldn’t continue being a part of an auto stand in my area," she said. Rebecca, who has been in the field for more than four years, is now a part of the auto stand in Ponmalai. "After I shifted from the previous auto stand, the situation became better because there’s a lot of support now," she said.
 
  took over the salon business from husband after his death in an accident. The business grew because of her strong administrative skills. New Vempuli Salon, where Mary is a head hairdresser, offers services like haircutting, shaving and facials for men and boys. "It’s been four years since I’ve been running our salon and I’ve overcome several struggles. Initially men used to be sceptic about my skill in haircut," she stated.
 
 
