MUMBAI: Three years after the birth of her daughter, an   mother has urged the court for an urgent hearing of her petition to drop the name of the child’s biological father from the birth certificate. Advocate Uday Warunjikar, counsel for the woman, mentioned the petition last week before a division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice  .

 “Despite   judgments on the issue of unwed mothers applying for their child’s birth certificate, the   has refused to correct the birth certificate,” said advocate Warunjikar. The urgency for deciding the issue is the fact that the mother wants to start school admission process for the child and the birth certificate issued by the corporation in 2014 mentions the biological father’s name. The bench has scheduled the matter for hearing on February 2.
 
 In its affidavit, the BMC claimed that the biological father’s name was mentioned in the application for the certificate and birth and death registers cannot be changed at this stage without an order of the court. The woman’s legal team has contested the argument. “I have never disclosed the name of the child of the father nor I have disclosed that I was married with the father of the child. I am not aware as to who forwarded the report to the office of the medical officer from the hospital,” said the 22-year-old, who was studying in HSC when she gave birth to her daughter. In a rejoinder to the BMC’s affidavit, the woman has cited the 2015 Supreme Court judgment to claim that a correction can be made in the birth register. 
 
 The apex court in a landmark judgment had ruled that when a single woman or unwed mother makes an application for her child’s birth certificate along with an affidavit, then civic officials should issue it without insisting that she should disclose the name of the father of the child. 
 
 She filed a petition in the HC in July 2017. According to the Borivli resident, she had delivered the child in November 14. In the application for registering the birth, her marital status had been mentioned as “married” along with the name of father of the child. She filed an application in September 2015, seeking the correction of the child’s birth records—including deleting the biological father’s name and changing her marital status. The BMC, however, failed to act. “The corporation kept mum and avoided to act upon the affidavit. A public authority like the BMC cannot sit tight and avoid acting upon the judgment of the Supreme Court,” she said. 
 
 
