THANE: The vast Gaondevi playground in central Thane could soon be out of bounds for thousands of revelers as the   is mulling to dig up the around 7,000sqm open space for constructing an underground  .

 While the project may ease up the parking chaos in the area, it may end up as a huge loss of open space for thousands of residents and youngsters. Further, the administration claimed that it will restore the ground to its original state after two years, the time it requires to build the facility but has apparently left residents seething at the prospect of losing an open space. 
 
 The single tier facility will be constructed 7 metres underground and will accommodate nearly 130 four-wheelers and an equal number of bikes. The project was proposed considering the massive traffic snarls witnessed in the periphery of the station area. The tendering process for the around Rs 36 cr worth project is likely to start anytime this week. 
 
 The project is part of the bigger corporation plan of keeping the 500m around the station vehicle-free. 
 
 The time required for constructing the facility is around 18 months and the ground is likely to remain out of bounds for the public using it daily.
 
 The project was approved by the general body in 2016 but was delayed after the corporation realized it didn’t have ownership of the land. The stretch was initially leased by the revenue department to the Thane council for a period of 30 years, but the agreement wasn’t forged after the corporation came into force in the late seventies. The administration has now sought relevant approvals from the state revenue department for implementing the project that will be developed using smart city funds. 
 
 “We will be digging up the entire playground area which will remain out of bounds for the public during the period. The time required for developing the facility is around 18 months after which we may resurface the ground to its present state,” justified a civic official requesting anonymity. 
 
 Meanwhile, local residents expressed concern and suggested the administration to work out some other plans and ensure the open ground isn’t lost in the name of parking. 
 
 “Shutting the playground is unfortunate as it is the only open space here,” said Dr  , a local resident and citizen activist. 
 
 Meanwhile, the administration claimed they will try to restore the ground after the work is over claiming that introducing any advanced technology for the project will prove to be a costly affair. Using the tunnelling system used by the   at Azad maidan for the underground Metro-3 corridor is not economically feasible here. We will restore the ground after our work is over,” assured a senior official. 
 
 
