Chandigarh: Top Haryana bureaucrats turned up wearing black badges at a meeting with chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Chandigarh on Wednesday as a gesture to protest against the alleged assault on Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash at CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residence.

 The meeting had been called to review the progress of development works in 46 blocks of the state listed during the Chintan Shivir (introspection session) in December 2017 at Parwanoo in Himachal Pradesh.
 
 CM Khattar said under the scheme, each of the 46 top IAS, IPS and IFS officers had been allocated a block to undertake works in 10 selected common fields and one field of their choice. The 10 fields include, facilitation of finance, making agriculture profitable and sustainable, improved delivery of health services, Swachh Bharat, congestion free bazars, youth engagement, reduction in air pollution, availability of identity related services, effective policing, road order and road conduct.
 
 He said there were 3-7 parameters to measure performance of the officers in each of the 10 fields. Some of these parameters include making a 10km long accident-free stretch, one town or mahagram (big village) stray cattle free, ensuring delivery of caste certificates to all school students and ensuring chargesheets were filed in all FIRs about heinous crimes.
 
 “A maximum of 39 marks would be available for 38 parameters covering these 10 fields and scoring would be done by individual officers themselves. A maximum of four marks have been kept for ‘Any Field of Officers Choice’. Another seven marks would be given on the basis of social audit by Haryana Governance Reforms Authority (HGRA),” said Khattar.
 
 The Chief Minister said the state has a strong work force of about three lakh employees, the administrative secretaries were directed to utilize their services to ensure the benefit of various government schemes and programmes to the people in these 46 blocks that comprised more than one-third of the total area of the state.
 
 It would not only help in achieving the objective of the government but also provide practical training to the employees thus lead to raising a trained workforce, he added.
 
 
