DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand forest department is all set to minimalize its policy on plantation of saplings and new head of forest force (HOFF), Jai Raj, has announced to put more focus on reviving the existing degrading forests in the state.
 
  Jai Raj told TOI, “Every year, over one crore saplings are planted in the state. The success rate of such plantation is 100% in the fertile Terai region but survival chances of plantation in the hilly regions are bleak. So instead of planting new saplings, we are now going to pay more attention to our degrading forests and comply with the Assisted Natural Regeneration (ANR) measure under which the degrading forests would be regenerated.”
  
  He added that to revive the green cover, forest fires should be tackled and over grazing by cattle should be stopped. “Degraded forests are present in almost all the districts of the state. And through ANR we will strengthen the biodiversity, revive and replenish the water resources and increase carbon sequestration to mitigate the adverse impact of climate change,” he said.
  
  ANR method accelerates growth of secondary forests by protecting and nurturing the trees. New plant species are grown wherever it is required in the forest in accordance with the natural pattern of vegetation.
  
  Former forest chief S K Chandola said, “The entire Budher forest in Chakrata, which is replete with lush Deodar and Oak species, was grown from seeds in 1872. However, the practice of seed sowing, where seed regenerates on its own and survives in the given condition naturally, was replaced with enforced sapling plantation in 1980 by the forest department to exhibit the plantation work done in field. But plants are likely to wither in such cases.”
  
  He added that the natural expansion pattern of forest is disturbed by aggressive invasive species. Over grazing and forest fires also destroy forests and these barriers will be removed through ANR.
  
  Experts said that under ANR, apart from the main tree species such as sal, oak, rododendron, deodar etc, herbs of medicinal value, grasses and shrubs would also be grown alongside.
  
  Another expert, SP Singh, emphasized on the need of striking a balance between plantation and ANR. “The forest department should not do away with the plantation method. Officials must ensure that saplings are planted keeping the soil quality and climatic requirements in mind. Alongside, ANR should be practiced in degraded forests.”
