CHENNAI: Whether  , son of former Union finance minister  , would be allowed to go abroad, particularly the UK and other European countries, to carry out his business affairs, would be decided by the Madras high court on February 16. 

 Karti has been restrained from leaving India by CBI, which has issued a lookout circular against him in connection with an FIR registered by the agency, in the alleged irregular approval of 305 crore foreign investment in   in 2007, allegedly at the behest of Karti when his father was the Union finance minister. The notices were issued on August 16 and August 18. 
 
 On Monday, after recording the four hour of arguments put forth by senior counsel Gopal   representing Karti and additional solicitor general G Rajagopalan representing CBI, the first bench of Chief Justice   and Justice Abdul Quoddhose said they would pass orders on the miscellaneous application seeking permission to travel abroad on Friday.
 
 As to the main plea assailing the validity of the lookout notice, the bench directed the CBI to file a counter affidavit by February 25 and posted the petition to March 3. 
 
 Earlier, during the course of hearing, Subramanium contended that Karti, had already appeared before the agency for inquiry and assured cooperation in future. This apart, the petitioner and his family were before the court and he was not a fugitive against whom lookout notices could be issued, he said. 
 
 "There is no justification for the apprehension that he would not come back. He has his roots here. Why won't he come back?" he added. 
 
 Opposing the arguments, Rajagopalan said, "He is seeking permission for a business trip. If it is for any emergency or medical reasons, the agency would not have objected to it. But when it comes to his private interest and interest of the probe, the latter prevails. Moreover, his business affairs are the subject matter of the probe."
 
 "Furthermore, during the course of investigation, the agency got leads of money trail of the alleged offence reaching the shores of UK and other European countries. There is a real and present danger that his presence in the countries would result in tampering of incriminating evidence present against him," Rajagopalan added.
 
 The lookout notice is valid only for three more months. And probably the agency would also complete the investigation by that time. The petitioner could plan his travel after such time, the additional solicitor general said. Justifying that Karti has no intention to flee from India, Subramanium said, "The entire family has only one property abroad. They have clearly submitted before the   through an affidavit that if the agency could point out one undisclosed property belonging to them, they are ready to transfer the same to the government."
 
 The solicitor submitted that the petitioner returning to India is not the primary issue, there are something more to it. "We could not understand the urgency in the trip, he can wait till the probe is completed," he said.
 
 
