MUMBAI: Acquitting a man posthumously in a 20-year-old criminal case, the   said that in light of animosity between the complainant and the accused, and the contradiction in the evidence, a doubt was created about the allegations. The court also directed that if any fine was collected from him, it should be refunded to his family. 

 "The trial court ought not have convicted the accused for the offence (of causing hurt)," said Justice Prakash Naik while delivering the acquittal.
 
 The incident dates back to November 21, 1998. According to the case against him,  , an employee of the  , confronted the conductor at the state transport bus stand at Satara about a complaint he had lodged against him. Jagtap allegedly hit him with his fist, which led to bleeding from the head. A trial court convicted Jagtap in 2000; the verdict was upheld by the sessions court in 2004.
 
 Jagtap died while the case was pending in the sessions court. His son, Ganesh, as his legal heir, was allowed to carry forward the petition.
 
 In the high court, the prosecution pointed out that both subordinate courts had upheld the conviction. Advocates   and Umesh Yadav, counsels for Jagtap, pointed to contradictions in the case. They said there was no independent eyewitness despite the fact that the incident occurred at a public place. Further, as per the medical report, the injury was caused by a hard and blunt object and there was the possibility the complainant could have injured himself due to a fall from the bus. A fist blow could have resulted in tenderness, which was not visible in the case. The defence also pointed out that the conductor had been dismissed from service after he was caught misappropriating money charged for tickets from passengers. The court said there was no proof of assault or that it was done to deter the complainant from discharging his official duties.
 
 Under section 394 of the Criminal Procedure Code, every appeal filed in a criminal case abates on the death of an accused. An exception occurs if an appeal is filed against a conviction; then, within 30 days of the death of the accused, a close relative can seek permission to continue the appeal.
 
 
