PATNA: The sadar hospitals in Gaya, Muzaffarpur, Saharsa and Bhagalpur will have district early intervention centres (DEICs) soon, a senior state health society official said on Wednesday.

 The central government had approved nine DEICs for   under the Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karkyakram in fiscal 2014-2015. The official said construction work on the four out of nine DEICs in the state are almost complete. “Bidding process has been initiated by the Bihar Medical Services and Infrastructure Corporation Ltd (BMSICL) for the other five DEICs. Land to set up DEIC has already been acquired and the   (NHM) has already transferred the funds to BMSICL for the purpose,” he said.
 
 The official said the health department was finding it difficult to fill the 108 posts of 12 therapists each at the nine DEICs. “We will advertise the posts again and conduct subsequent placements,” he said. 
 
 A DEIC will provide initial screening of children from birth to 18 years of age for selected health conditions for four ‘Ds’ — defects at birth, deficiencies, diseases and developmental delays and disabilities — through trained 12-member team of doctors.
 
 “The four Ds include over 30 diseases for which the children will be screened. Children who require further tertiary care will be sent to medical hospitals under the state government,” the official said.
 
 The 12-member team would include physician, dentist, psychologist, physiotherapist, audiologist and speech therapist, optometrist, ENT specialist and lab technician.
 
 Children would be screened and treated for various diseases and deficiencies, including dental problems, sensory, motor and postural development, psychological and cognitive problems, including autism, speech and visual impairments, and hearing defects, nutritional needs and deficiencies.
 
 As per Census 2011, the total child population of Bihar in the age group of 0-17 years was 4,75,03,065, which is nearly half (45.6%) of the total population (10,40,99,452) of the state. The majority of children resides in the rural areas.
 
 
