Lying buried deep in the midfield of this authenticity-seeking culture of ours is one ox-shinned paradox: an obsession to find out what is ‘authentic’, and then sidling next to it, which stems from a paranoia of being found out to be fake. Like the man who scrambles to be the first one to pinch his nose and make accusatory stares after ‘someone’ has let it rip inside a lift, the Indian football fan is as keen to be not considered a mere club jersey and keychain-toting supporter as he is desperate to show that he is a real fan.

 
 
 
 This need to proclaim (both to oneself and to others) that he is a genuine Chelsea or Manchester City or Real Madrid fan — or as ‘genuine’ a fan not actually from/in Chelsea or Manchester or Madrid can possibly be — takes on manifestations that can be quite fanatical (from the Latin, fanaticus: of a temple, inspired by a god). He will reel off statistics, make interesting connections that would be a day trader’s envy, collect and collate pregame expert discussions on social media and television to be unfurled on an anytime-anywhere basis – all to make the substantial case that he is not a run-of-the-mill, weekend football club loyalist from a country that can’t really play real (read: quality) football.
 
 
 
 While the quality of football is indeed strained on this side of the Hindu Kush, the stakes are high when it comes to the quality of ritual support for ‘faraway’ sides and understanding — and reacting with understanding to — the Beautiful Spectator Sport. Here, above everything else, the aforementioned Indian fan of football bases his support for a particular club or side (national teams are usually left for ‘amateurs’) according to his team’s success. Which in football is measured specifically in wins, and more generally in positions on a league table, and even more tangibly in brands. Even if he doesn’t keep changing his support to winning teams, he has invested a large part of his life in cheering for top dogs, for top footballers, for top football.
 
 For this kind of fan, it would be puzzling to find, for instance, that, Premier League CEO Richard Scudamore happens to be a Bristol City supporter. (Bristol City finished 17th among the 24 teams playing in the English second division league last season.) Or, for that matter, why in this day and age of live international football into living rooms and ‘pubs’ (read: restaurants with drinking facilities) and Més que un club (More than a club), any right-thinking person would even follow – never mind support – Indian clubs.
 
 Which is where the ‘other’ kind of older – not necessarily in terms of age, but in terms of how long his kind has been around – Indian football fan finds his way into the pitch. The die-hard supporter of Shillong Lajong will demand his club wins every game, even though he doesn’t expect it. The primal attachment to, say, Mohun Bagan or Bengaluru FC – the former 129 years old, the latter five – is incomprehensible to ‘real’ football fans.
 
 Part of the confusion is, of course, what football and ‘belonging’ means to both varieties of fans. Being on a losing streak, or playing a fugly version of the Beautiful Game, is quite secondary to this club loyalist – whether he happens to support Churchill Brothers or Arsenal or, indeed, both. It is not some masochistic zeal that makes such a fan seek out not readily seekoutable merchandise to egg on his side from the stands, or go numb each time the once ‘Invincibles’ return to their ‘achhe din’ ways. This fan sticks to ones chosen club(s) for richer or poorer, in sickness and in health, till death or dissolution of club tear them part.
 
 Does this make this variety of football ‘fan’ less of an aesthete and lover of football. Perhaps. Does the strategic Indian football lover without a ‘real’ dog in the race have the wherewithal to enjoy and appreciate the sport more? Not necessarily, if ‘belonging’ of a different kind – ‘I am part of something international, world-class’ – is in play.
 
 Sports writer and county cricketer Ed Smith, in his essay, ‘What do people see when they watch sports?’, describes a version of fans who fall in between, as it were, the two, admittedly, caricatures of football fanatics: “These fans are the types who simply trace the action and are moved by what they see. They follow the plot in their hearts. They may very much want one team to win, but they aren’t blind to the sadness of wishing defeat on the opposition. They seek rather than demand victory, admire brilliance, sympathise with humiliation and crave sportsmanship.” In other words, alien onlookers following the trajectories of a game.
 
 Perhaps, there are some   like this, angelic spectators looking on beyond the other spectators and delighting in the physics and the psychology of the game. Except, I would bet that both kinds of   mentioned earlier would believe this to be an apt description of them. And that such a spectator – a fan of the sport alone – exists in this country for our football: cricket.
 
