PUNE: It is still winter in the country, but village Bhira in Maharashtra is already experiencing summer-like conditions, making it the hottest station in India on Sunday.

 The village, located around 100km from Pune, recorded a maximum temperature of 38°C on Sunday and Monday.
 
 Not just Bhira, Maharashtra’s stations are among the hottest in the country currently. On Sunday, the maximum temperature in Akola was recorded at 35.6°C and in Nanded, it stayed at 35°C. When it comes to Ratnagiri, the temperature soared from 32.5°C on Sunday to 35.2° C on Monday.
 
 Last summer, Bhira hit the news for a similar reason. Its maximum temperature soared to 46.5°C then. The unusual temperature on Sunday and Monday in Bhira was also double-checked by the Met department to ensure that there was no mistake in recording it. After the reverification, it was found that Bhira did record the maximum temperature of 38°C on Sunday and Monday.
 
 An   (IMD) official said during summers too, Bhira’s temperature goes up high. “The Sahyadri mountains around Bhira, with their predominant rock being Basalt, aids in heating up the village. Solar radiation during the noon heats up the rocks, which causes Bhira to warm up considerably in comparison to other surrounding stations,” the official said, adding that the maximum temperature in Bhira touches 40°C in late February.
 
 The village may see similar temperatures during the next few days. As per Skymet Weather Services, the strengthening of an easterly wave, moist and humid winds from Bay of Bengal and   are affecting the temperatures in Maharashtra. A   in maximum temperatures and a significant increase in minimum temperatures is expected in parts of the state during the next 48 hours and beyond.
 
 Sources from the private forecaster said the light winds blowing in the state will push up the humidity levels over the next two to three days. However, light rain and thundershowers over southern parts of south   around Tuesday and Wednesday may ease the discomfort. “After Thursday, we expect the temperatures to recede marginally over many parts of the state,” a source from the Skymet Weather Services said.
 
 
