PANAJI: The tourism department has told the high court of Bombay at Goa that it would need six months to float and appoint an agency for cleaning the state’s beaches. 

 The department made the submission in view of allegations made in a petition claiming Drishti Lifeguarding Service Pvt Ltd was appointed for cleaning beaches without following proper rules. No competitive bids were invited while appointing the agency, the petition, filed by Joaquim Silveira of  , said.
 
 Drishti is also the agency engaged by the department for lifeguarding services at the beaches.
 
 He said the losses caused to the government by the action of the department needed to be assessed, adding that he too was deprived of a chance to participate in the tender process. The petitioner has prayed that repeated extensions granted to Drishti be declared illegal.
 
 In his affidavit, the tourism director has sought six months’ time, explaining in detail that the department would need more time to float a tender and appoint a fresh agency for comprehensive beach cleaning.
 
 The tourism department has also said that it lacked technical expertise and hence, responsibility of making technical estimates and supervision was handed over to the   (GTDC).
 
 Notices terminating contract with a consortium of bidders — M/s Bhumika Cleantech Services Pvt Ltd, North Goa and M/s Ram Cleaners and Developers Pvt, South Goa —appointed in September 2014 for beach cleaning, were issued in September 2016.
 
 Soon after, the Drishti Lifeguarding Service Pvt Ltd was brought on board as a temporary arrangement, which still continues.
 
 The beach cleaning contracts with the two agencies were mired in controversy with allegations of a multi-crore scam. Cases were also filed before the Goa Lokayukta alleging fraud in the contract.
 
 In its September 2017 order, the Lokayukta found the then tourism minister Dilip Parulekar, guilty of “favouritism”, besides other irregularities, in the scam, and recommended that the ACB reopens the case.
 
 
