Mumbai: Banks will continue to make heavy provisions towards doubtful loans for the fourth quarter with lenders initiating insolvency proceedings against two dozen of the 28 large defaulters referred to them by the Reserve Bank of India ( ). 

 The central bank’s norms require that if insolvency proceedings are started against a borrower, banks will have to set aside as provisions half the loan amount from their quarterly profits. The provisions are necessary as banks are likely to recover only a small fraction of their money from these loans.
 
 The list of 28 companies referred to banks by the RBI include big names like  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,  ,   and SEL Manufacturing. The total borrowing by the 28 companies is estimated to be close to Rs 2 lakh crore. 
 
 In terms of the RBI directive, insolvency proceedings could be avoided through a loan-restructuring exercise only if two rating agencies certify that the balance debt (after restructuring) was investment grade. 
 
 According to banking sources, lenders are hopeful of restructuring in at least four large accounts. These include BILT, Jaiprakash Associates, Anrak Aluminum Metals and Soma Enterprises.
 
 Insolvency proceedings have become imminent after banks failed to restructure the loans before the RBI deadline of December 13. Banks have already initiated proceedings against 10 companies. Since the National Company Law Tribunal ( ) — the court which admits insolvency petitions — was closed for the year-end, the applications are set to line up in coming days.
 
 The RBI had turned down a plea by banks that they be given more time to attempt a recovery outside the NCLT. Banks have been reluctant to drag the large borrowers to court as once the insolvency proceedings begin, lenders will have to immediately set aside 50% of the loan amount towards expected losses. 
 
 Also, if there is no resolution in 180 days, the company goes into liquidation and banks have to make full provision on the amount they have failed to recover. The RBI had first sent a list of 12 large defaulters in June.
 
 
