HYDERABAD: Clad in spotless khaki and armed with a baton, six-year-old Dudekala Ishan, a terminally ill patient, on Wednesday strode into the   police commissioner's office at   with elan to be the top cop for a day. 

 
 After police officers gave him a ceremonial welcome, Ishan reciprocated by raising his baton and saluting them. He got down to business immediately. "I want to ensure the city is safe for women and, in order to do so, we will increase the number of SHE Teams in the force," Ishan, a cancer patient, whose wish was to become the police commissioner, said. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 A resident of   in Medak district, Ishan stole the limelight on Wednesday after  , approached Rachakonda police commissioner   about 10 days ago with the boy's wish . 
 
  
  
  
  
 "I have no words to describe his situation. He is suffering from a life-threatening disease and I hope he gets well soon so that he becomes a cop,"   said. 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 "I have no words to describe his situation. He is suffering from a life-threatening disease and I hope he gets well soon so that he becomes a cop. We cannot help cure him physically, but at least we could fulfil his dream,” Bhagwat said. Even as the commissioner was speaking to media personnel at the event, an unnerved Ishan even walked around the office, examining officers around him, shaking hands, as the huge media contingent followed him in tow.
 
  
  
 
 “So what would you do as police commissioner first ?” was the question, and pat came the answer, “I will install CCTV cameras and create a friendly policing atmosphere,” adding: “Cameras will help detect thieves,” much to the amusement of the media personnel.
 
 Just when everyone thought the child was probably getting embarrassed at the attention, Ishan took everyone by surprise, “I also want to put all the thieves behind bars,” as Bhagwat burst out laughing.
 
 Bhagwat also handed over a cheque for Rs 10,000 towards the treatment of the boy. D Chand Pasha, the boy’s father, who is a painter, said Ishan goes to a government school whenever his health permits.
 
 “When we found out in December last that he is suffering from a life-threatening disease, our life came crashing down. For the past three months, he has been undergoing treatment at MNJ Cancer Institute,” Pasha added.
 
 
 
