 VILLAGE (KHANNA): A resident of Jalajan village near  's Khanna town on Friday shot and killed his neighbour apparently after a dispute over buying pigeons.

 Local residents said the accused, Daljeet Singh  , 32, should have been arrested five days earlier on Sunday when he had gone on a shooting spree in the village with a .32 bore revolver in a drunken state. He had injured five people then, four of them from the sarpanch's family, but had managed to escape.
 
 Jeeta returned to the village on Friday afternoon and shot  , 55, in the face, killing him on the spot. He then allegedly entered Gurcharan's house, which is opposite to his, in a bid to kill the rest of the family members. Fortunately, Gurcharan's wife and son were not at home at the time. An angry Jeeta came out and fired in the air.
 
 Scared neighbours then called up the police and had him arrested.   was an employee of the revenue department. Jeeta had apparently sold some pigeons to Gurcharan for around Rs 30,000 and the two had a disagreement over the price. Police recovered the illegal revolver from him. Officials added that Jeeta was a local hockey player with a wayward nature. 
 
 
 
 
 Jeeta would often be drunk and pick up fights with other people in the village.
 
 During the shooting spree on Sunday, Jeeta had injured four of sarpanch Manpreet Kaur’s family members, allegedly because he was upset over his sister-in-law losing to Manpreet in panchayat election. A man passing by at the time too was shot and injured.
 
 Villagers said if the police had arrested the accused immediately after Sunday’s shooting, he wouldn’t have killed Gurcharan. “It is police negligence as they didn’t arrest Jeeta after he fired at my uncle and his family,” said Jasprathamjeet Singh, son of the sarpanch.
 
 Cops had booked Jeeta for attempt to murder at the time but could not nab him. Senior police officials insisted there was no lapse on their part. "We had deployed cops at his possible hideouts since Sunday but could not trace him as he was not carrying a mobile phone," said Khanna SSP Navjot Singh Mahal. He added that the accused has now been booked for murder. “He is in the habit of drinking and does not seem to have a stable mental state,” the senior cop said.
 
 
 
 
