INDORE: Industries operating from Special Economic Zone ( ) have objected to proposed 15 per cent hike in power tariff for the new financial year citing a sharp rise in cost of operations and losing competitive edge. 

 Audhyogik Kendra Vikas Nigam (AKVN) has submitted a proposal to   (MPERC) to hike power tariff for SEZ by 15 per cent in the financial year 2018-19. 
 
 Experts said, year on year rise in electricity tariff will kill the advantage, industries were promised at the time of setting their hold in the region. Last year power tariff was hiked by 10 per cent to Rs 3.65 per unit. 
 
 Flexituff vice president (HR) Manoj Dwivedi said, “The biggest advantage to industries is cheap electricity. Industry department should supply power to companies as a facility it should not be made their earning mechanism.”
 
 AKVN proposed hike citing revenue losses due to low rates of power. 
 
 There are 49 registered companies at Pithampur SEZ of which 42 are operational. Besides Pharmaceuticals, SEZ also houses some top firms such as Cummins Technologies, SRF Limited and Pratibha Syntex among others. 
 
 At present AKVN supplies about 55 MW electricity to industries in SEZ per day. A public hearing by MP Electricity Regulatory Commission (MPERC) inviting objections will be held on March 13. 
 
 Industry players said even a few paisa rise makes a big difference in their cost of operations as electricity is the prime requirement for running operations. 
 
 Dinesh Mishra, an executive at a packaging industry operating from SEZ said, “Our monthly electricity bill comes around Rs 2 crore, even a slight upward revision will escalate our cost of operations.” 
 
 Industrialists said that economic power rates are the major attraction for industries to set up operations in the region and this should be continued for developing a proper ecosystem for industries.
 
 AKVN managing director Kumar Purushottam said, “There were no tripping in the past two months. The proposed hike is in accordance to our expenditure to maintain quality supply.” 
 
 
