MUMBAI: A day after the landmark ruling legalizing living wills and passive euthanasia, city doctors and lawyers hailed the Supreme Court but expressed fear that the mandatory procedure laid down is “unclear’’ and may make things “unworkable".

 The   has mandated setting up of committees to “lend assurance to the decision taken by doctors in good faith”. But practising doctors feel that the procedure, at first blush, has “certain gaps”.
 
 At a discussion at KEM Hospital on Saturday, a panel including doctors Roop  , Sunil Pandya, Nandini Vallath and lawyers Veena Johari with Dhvani   underscored how the legal sanctity bestowed by the apex court on autonomy of advance directives made by individuals far outweighs any procedural tardiness that could ensue.
 
 Mehta said the “positive impact of the SC ruling is that it removes any legal uncertainty about right to refuse lifesustaining treatment...”.
 
 End-of-life-care specialist and a neurologist, Dr Gursahani, said, “But given the number of authorities the decision has to go through will make it unworkable.” Mehta added: “The guidelines state that medical practitioners must give ‘due weight’ to the advance directive but it is unclear what it means.”
 
 Advocate Johari said, “gender concerns” have not been touched. “Women’s health is anyway a neglected issue still,” she said. “But a huge loophole is that there is no timeline on executing an advance directive in case of an incompetent patient,” she said, as the SC mentions a ‘cooling off period’ for legal nod in such cases. “The problem will be in implementation. It will defeat the purpose if there is much delay,” she said.
 
 Gastroenterologist Dr Sanjay Nagral said that besides complexities of procedural difficulties, there is also the “challenge of defining what a terminal illness is and what precisely would constitute withdrawal of care?”
 
 Dr   and   and Vallath said the judgement opens doors to a need for open and mature “conversations of meaningful life and death” in drawing rooms, at meetings and elsewhere.
 
