Soon after it became apparent that the rumble in the villages brought under the jurisdiction of the PDAs wasn’t going to blow over,   made the dramatic Easter eve gesture of pulling out Santa Cruz and Santo Andre from the newly constituted Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority (GPPDA). Sadly for the town and country planning minister, his grand gesture has been rebuffed, and from the mood at the April 6 protest, the wheels of public disaffection against the PDAs—notorious for corruption—seem set to pick pace. The demands of the village groups are unequivocal: bin the newly created GPPDA; withdraw the PDAs’ jurisdiction over villages; and junk the regional plan 2021. Untangling himself from this confrontation might prove tricky even for someone as politically astute—as he believes he is—as Sardesai. 

 The church’s open support to the campaign—Goa’s unique villages were being systematically destroyed by planning models imposed by the government, it said—must be a worrying concern for a politician who banked on the ‘minority’ vote, and whose pre-2017 poll rhetoric was shaped around a ‘secular’ image.
 
 One senses there’s also an element of payback—for political opportunism—at play in what   is up against currently. No other politician in Goa has used bravado and spin to get what he wanted as he has. 
 
 It’s almost impossible to co-relate the Vijai Sardesai of pre-election anti-BJP spiel to the current avatar that spins an oratory extolling the very reverse. But it was in July of last year that the Fatorda MLA was truly at the top of his game, when in an air of giddy triumph he announced that Babush Monserrate was joining Goa Forward, “to give chief minister Manohar Parrikar a walkover in the Panjim byelection”. The quid pro quo for this was to be the GPPDA, designed to Monserrate’s specifications. The lame-duck   which had failed to get its act together to form a government was made to look even lamer: “Our narrative of Goanness is unique enough to expand the party, and leaders who have substantial influence in the state are joining us. Babush has great influence in two constituencies, where we are now set to have a strong presence;” Sardesai had said.
 
 Act II of the GF ‘narrative’ hasn’t come to pass, and probably never will, the way things are going in the rest of the country. Neither the Santa Cruz nor the St Andre MLAs have been willing to ditch the rickety Congress wagon for Babush or GF and were quick to step off the GPPDA when they sensed which way the wind was blowing. On the statue front, the BJP and MGP joined hands to deliver their bragging partner a reality check. Parrikar was willing to go thus far—entrusting Vijai with the money- spinner   etc—but no further. Unnoticed by most, Monserrate himself who should by now have been sitting in the cool confines of a new PDA office overlooking a restructured skyline of ascending high-rises, quietly cold-shouldered all BJP nominees for the Panjim mayor’s post, giving the job to a total newcomer, his own man. 
 
 The shifting political mood may have something to do with that. “There is an apprehension Babush Monserrate will become chairman and everything will get converted. There is no need for everyone to fear,” Sardesai said when he sensed his GPPDA train might be headed for a crash. Apprehension is the operative word here and it is sustained by past experience of massive land conversions and land sharks on the loose when Monserrate was town and country planning minister. It is reinforced by the public’s mistrust of Sardesai’s assurances and GF’s lack of credibility after its complete reversal on what it claimed to stand for—against casinos, against Mopa, against the BJP’s ideology. 
 
 There’s a price to be paid for hogging the political limelight and arm-twisting one’s coalition brotherhood: none of the GF’s partners have jumped to Sardesai’s defence now that he faces the outcome of his own soaring ambitions. The GF’s political ‘narrative’ is indeed unfolding, as is Michael Lobo’s whose dreams of a greater Calangute will be thwarted as well by the build-up of public resentment against unfettered corruption in Goa’s planning bodies.
 
 The writer is a senior journalist. Views expressed are personal
 
 
