NAGPUR: The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) unit of city police crime branch is abuzz with some high value and high profile cases involving a number of senior officials of various banks, including nationalized one, and other financial institutions. The officials are facing serious charges of misappropriating funds, in collusion with some private racketeers, to the tune of Rs50 crore.

 The crackdown on white-collar crimes by the EOW came after repeated statements by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, expressing the government’s aim to curtail activities flourishing at the cost of citizens. More than half-a-dozen banks, including  , and their senior officials, have been brought under the purview of the investigations pertaining to home loans and other frauds, like fake vehicle loans, leading to siphoning of sizeable amounts.
 
 DCP EOW Shweta   said the unit has been persistently probing irregular loan sanctions and disbursements, taking place on the basis of fake documents, processed in violation of norms in collusion with bank officials and private agents. “We are taking help of experienced chartered accountants and other experts to deal with the intricacies of the banking frauds. Even former cops having experience in cases of financial frauds have been summoned to advise in critical probes,” she said.
 
 Khedkar, referring to two cases of home loan frauds in Indian Overseas Bank, and another bank that had offered several vehicle loans, said her unit had gone to the extent of digging up and cancelling long pending pre-arrest bail matters of senior officials of financial institutions to allow custodial interrogation. “We have already arrested senior bank officials during the course of our investigation so far, and are targeting more officials,” she said.
 
 Khedkar, an officer of state service, also said that she is persistently following up with the government to issue notifications for auction under the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1999. “Several properties under MPID Act are set to go under the hammer now,” she said. 
 
 
