CHENNAI: The move to reinstate expelled   spokesman K C Palanisamy has gained momentum with party coordinator O Panneerselvam holding a meeting with  .

 “Following an invitation from OPS, I met him at his house on Friday night and discussed the issues involved,” said Palanisamy.
 
 Sources in the AIADMK said OPS took the initiative for the patch-up at the behest of chief minister  . “I reiterated a few demands that I have been making for many months. First and foremost, the steering committee should be fully constituted as per the resolution adopted in the party general council held on September 17, last year,” said Palanisamy.
 
 Responding to a query as to whether he had sought a membership for himself in the steering committee, Palanisamy said, “Immediately after the last general council, both EPS and OPS promised me that I would be included as a member in the steering committee. But instead of giving me the post, they expelled me from the party. Unless these basic demands are met, there cannot be any patch-up,” said KCP.
 
 Palanisamy is also waging a legal battle in the Election Commission as well as in Delhi high court against the dual leadership of EPS and OPS in the AIADMK. The Election Commission has not yet accepted the amended party bylaw, meaning, the posts of steering committee coordinator and joint coordinator are yet to get the EC’s stamp of approval. The commission, meanwhile, had permitted OPS and EPS to sign form A and form B for filing of nomination papers by AIADMK candidates in assembly and parliamentary elections.
 
 Palanisamy has been demanding election for the party general secretary post since former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s demise. Though her confidante   was appointed general secretary by the general council in December 2016, Palanisamy challenged it on the grounds that as per the party bylaw the general secretary has to be elected by the cadres and not merely by functionaries.
 
 Sasikala is yet to be removed from the AIADMK’s primary membership, but the jailed leader is already heading two other political outfits - T T V Dhinakaran’s Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and V Divaharan’s   - as their general secretary, going by the claims of the founders of the two parties. Interestingly, Sasikala is yet to accept or reject the posts.
 
