CHENNAI: He cleaned the camera’s lens, blinked repeatedly, then rubbed his eyes — but whatever he did, it would not go; the green screen through which his mind seemed to be filtering his vision persisted. An all-pervasive tinge now coloured his world.

 It was worrying for Sujit*, 45, because he was a professional photographer. It became a serious concern when it started to affect his work as a Chennai-based wildlife shutterbug. Sujit decided to look for help and met doctors at  .
 
 The first clue was in his medical records. “He had  ,” senior consultant Dr Rajiv Raman said. We initially screened him for diabetic  , which leaves blood vessels of light-sensitive tissue in the retina damaged.
 
 “Because diabetic retinopathy is quite common among people with diabetes, it was an obvious suspect,” Dr Raman said.
 
 But the doctors were surprised: The result was negative. When they examined Sujit’s eyes further, they found he had low arterial oxygen saturation. The human body requires and regulates a precise balance of oxygen in the blood. Physicians consider anything between 95% and 100% to be a normal blood oxygen level and Sujit’s blood oxygen, tests showed, was at 86%.
 
 Doctors helped him inhale 100% oxygen for 15 minutes.
 
 “The green tint vanished. Things around him seemed sharper,” said Dr Raman, who recently presented Sujit as a case study in a journal published by German Association of Surgical Ophthalmologists.
 
 The doctors referred Sujit to a specialty healthcare facility for further evaluation of the cause of his reduced blood oxygen saturation. They also advised him to undergo a sleep study after he mentioned that he had a snoring problem. 
 
 Doctors later diagnosed his problem as obstructive sleep apnea with an apnea-hypopnea, characterised by repetitive episodes of airflow reduction or cessation due to upper airway collapse during sleep.
 
 Sleep apnea and type 2 diabetes often coexist because of shared risk factors like obesity, studies by experts have found. The more severe a case of untreated sleep apnea in a person with type 2 diabetes, the poorer that person’s levels of glucose control are likely to be, doctors said.
 
 Sujit’s problem finally had a name:  , a colour defect that doctors have recorded in diabetic patients with or without diabetic retinopathy.
 
 “It is more common than we think but people don’t pick up on symptoms early because it is progressive,” Dr Raman said. “This patient was probably more conscious of one symptom — the green tinge in his vision — because he was a photographer.”
 
 Colour vision deficits can also occur in non-diabetic individuals at high altitudes where oxygen levels are lower, he said. “When these individuals return to the plains, their vision becomes normal.”
 
 Doctors advised Sujit to lose weight and suggested oral application of continuous pressure on his airway. After regular follow-ups spanning three months, the photographer finally stopped seeing the world in shades of green.
 
 (*name changed)
 
 
