GURUGRAM: The Manipur government’s efforts to revive a project to set up a   institute in Gurugram has hit a roadblock. Huda has asked the Manipur government to pay for extension of allotment of the land on which the project is to be executed at its current reserve price which is more than Rs 50 crore.

 Huda had allotted 4.25 acres in Sector 18 (plot no. 88) in October 1990 to the Manipur government for Rs 34 lakh for construction of   under the condition that the construction would be completed in two years from date of allotment. “It has been observed that the Manipur government failed to complete the construction in stipulated time from date of possession,” said a senior Huda official, adding that it was decided that if the Manipur government wanted to continue with the plan to construct the institute, it would have to pay the reserve price of the land minus the amount already paid - Rs 34 lakh.
 
 After 27 years of the Manipur government expressing its desire to revive the project, the chief minister of the north-eastern state has finally approached Manohar Lal Khattar, seeking cooperation and extension of allotment of the land for the project. After receiving a letter in this regard from N   in November, chief minister   forwarded it to Huda, seeking a detailed report.
 
 Huda sealed the plot and took over its possession in 1995 as the Manipur government had failed to reply to notices issued by the urban development authority on the matter. The estate officer of Huda in his report to the chief administrator sent on December 28, 2017 said that as per terms and condition of allotment, the construction was required to be completed within two years from date of allotment by 1992 but no work had been started within stipulated time.
 
 The Manipur CM in his letter to Khattar said that in the past, the state government of Manipur could not start construction on allotted land due to certain reasons but now it wanted to revive the project. The letter also said that the department of   of Manipur was now determined to realise the dream of setting up the institute. “Therefore, we request for extension of period for construction and request you to kindly extend all possible help, so that the construction of Manipur Institute of Performing Arts may start at the earliest,” said Singh’s letter.
 
