Vijayawada: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation, which has approved a Rs 1,481 crore budget for the current fiscal, is pulling out all the stops to improve its   collection.

 Hence, it has decided to lease out its unusued municipal land or build more complexes. The civic body is hoping to replicate the success it has met by building addition floors in the NTR Complex. 
 
 The   expects to collect Rs 605 crores in revenue, out of which Rs 86 crore will come from rents of commercial complexes and estates.
 
 The VMC-owned Kaleswara Rao Market, located in the One Town, is an important shopping centre for the denizens. The civic body collects a revenue of Rs 1.3 crore from the shops in the complex. In the recent time, it has initiated measures to rein in unauthorised stalls. This year, VMC intends to collect nearly Rs 64 lakhs in dues from various stall holders.
 
 Similarly, NTR Complex, in Governorpet, is also owned by the civic body and caters to the need of a large number of people. VMC recently constructed additional floors in this complex at an estimated cost of Rs 9 crore. It has built 150 shops there. On the directions of chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, the VMC has decided to lease those shops to hardware and electronic shop owners. It expects to collect a revenue of Rs 10 crore from this enterprise.
 
 VMC, which will hold auction for the shops online, is expecting to get at least Rs 22,000 rent per shop per month at NTR Complex.
 
 The estates officer at VMC, Ch. Krishnamurthy, said their call for tenders for the 150 shops has received a huge response. “We intend to give other municipal properties a facelift,” he said.
 
 The chief engineer of VMC, P Adiseshu, said work on commercial complexes at Gandhinagar water tank and other areas are going on in a brisk pace.“We are ready to construct complexes across the city. We have already given orders for reconstruction of Rajagopalachari Vegetable Market at an estimated cost of Rs 10 crore and VMC council has also approved a resolution to relocate the existing vendors there,” says Adiseshu. He said that works will start as soon as the civic body is ready with the funds.
 
 Parking facilities maintained by the VMC will also play an important role in revenue  . The civic body which maointains parking lots at NTR Complex, Kaleswara Rao Market and other busy junctions in the city were shocked by irregularities that came to light after the recent vigilance raids. VMC officials are now focussing on improving transparency in collecting parking fee.
 
 VMC, which is in the process to build smart parking centres across the city, is gearing up to inaugurate its pilot project at the busy Mahatma Gandhi Road. Issuing online tokens and collecting charge based on time is done in smart parking which helps to control discrepancies.
 
 
