The improvement since Adenor Leonardo Bacchi aka   took over as   coach in June 2016 has been remarkable and the Selecao are now joint favourites to win a sixth World Cup. 

 
 Credit goes to the wily coach, who has instilled a sense of purpose in a team that looked lost under his predecessor  . His work has been exemplary, as 15 wins in 19 games prove.
 
 
 
 
 
 Coaching Selecao is all about handling pressure. We have won the World Cup five times and our supporters will never be happy with anything less than the Cup. We have grown up to believe this. So, the pressure of expectation will always be there.
 
 You have to perform at your best without thinking of the pressure. That is precisely what you are asked for if you happen to be associated with Brazil in a World Cup.
 
 
 
 
 
 The boys responded well since I took over. They had to prove to the world their worth and they did it. It’s a happy atmosphere in the dressing room. Footballers could express themselves freely, both on and off the field.
 
 
 
 I am a firm believer of performances rather than results. You cannot control the result. What you can (control) is the performance. I have always stressed on that. You need to find the exact way the team should play and that should be based on the players’ abilities. We had tried to form a style that suits them.
 
 
 
 See, Switzerland like to play from the deep. They try to hit you on the counter and with set pieces. But Serbia is old-school Yugoslavian product. Normally, they allow the opponents to play and they try to play their own short-passing game. Costa Rica were in the last eight in Brazil and they did not lose a single match in the World Cup, eliminated in tiebreaker against the Netherlands. It will be difficult for any team to break both the Swiss and the Costa Rican defence while against Serbia, you have to be worried about their attack, too. It will be interesting but there are different battles for us in group stage.
 
 
 
 Injuries are part and parcel of the game. Yes, we had Dani in our plans; he was a confirmed starter. But as things stand now, we have to find his replacement. It will be tough to replace a player of Dani’s stature, but that’s what we coaches have to ensure and find the right person.
 
 
 
 There can be so many options available for us, but we need to be ready to switch over from one transformation to another when the situation demands. However, one thing is for sure, we won’t do something that we have not done before. It is dangerous to experiment during the World Cup.
 
 
 
 It does not go well with the squad. It can create a sense of insecurity as well as doubts. That is what some of the ex-footballers had told me and I know what they mean. You should be doing what you had already done and got results. All of a sudden, you cannot change totally. But there will be minor variations.
 
 
 
 You mean, before our match, right? We were confident because of the results we had prior to that match. 1-7 is a disaster and disasters don’t happen regularly. We spoke about it, but we knew where we went wrong. So, our job was not to repeat the same mistakes. And we met Germany in a friendly match. We all know, the match will be discussed forever. But we need to leave it and go forward.
 
 
 
 Nobody can say so now. The World Cup is a tournament of seven matches and you need to win at least six of the matches to win it, which is huge. Only a defeat in the group stages can be managed afterwards, but the last four matches have to be won.
 
 So, first thing first, we need to ensure at least seven points from the first three group league matches to proceed further. Knockout matches can never be predicted.
 
 To be the champions, we need to maintain the same consistency level against tougher opponents at the highest stage.
 
