TRICHY: In a move which could evoke severe resistance from residents as well as consumer welfare associations, Trichy City Corporation has proposed to levy parking fee for vehicles parked on arterial roads. The civic body has clarified that the fee will be minimal and is not intended to generate revenue but to curb traffic congestion. However, consumer welfare groups have ridiculed the move pointing to the corporation’s failure to ensure proper parking facilities.

 Spread over 167.23 sq kms, several arterial streets in Trichy are prone to traffic congestion due to the haphazard parking of vehicles, be they cars or two-wheelers. To overcome the constraints in ensuring seamless flow of vehicles, Trichy corporation has passed a resolution paving the way for collection of fee from those who park their vehicles along arterial roads and commercial streets. Civic body sources said that the proposal could be implemented in the next two months. Though the corporation had tried to implement the same proposal during 2010-2011, the move was dropped citing administrative reasons. 
 
 The proposal was said to emulate Chennai corporation’s system of employing ex-servicemen to collect parking fee which could indirectly prevent vehicle thefts provided proper monitoring was carried out. While the tariff to be collected is yet to be fixed by the local body, corporation officials have approached the city traffic police department to obtain consent from the district traffic committee in implementing the proposal.
 
 Though the move is expected to decongest the city by preventing haphazard parking, it has all chances of backfiring given the inadequate infrastructure to park even two-wheelers in the commercial streets here. “This is a ridiculous move by Trichy Corporation. Instead of acting tough against the commercial establishments that have converted space meant for parking into underground shops, the civic body is trying to punish the innocent public,” S Pushpavanam, secretary, Consumer Protection Council, said. 
 
 As the civic body maintained that oral confirmation had been obtained from traffic police, the traffic wing officials in turn have supported the move claiming that it is necessary to bring down frequent traffic bottlenecks. “Without providing any facility, asking road users to pay and park their vehicles is unreasonable,” said M Sekaran, member, road safety council. “Revenue generation is not the purpose but to regulate traffic on arterial roads. We have identified a few hotspots where traffic congestion is very common and the tariff will be fixed before implementation,” a senior official with Trichy corporation said.
 
 
