Last night, within the crowded confines of the   pitch, we may have got a glimpse of the future, and sadly, it was telling us that it ain’t what it used to be.

 
 Were Barcelona being pretty or were they being pragmatic? Couldn’t they be both? We don’t know. But as they huffed and puffed to little avail, it was emerging that their effectiveness is greatly negated if you take flair out of the equation.
 
 Eventually, it took the oldest partnership in the mix – and by extension, invoking their basic grain – in the telepathic duo of Iniesta and Messi to snatch an ‘away lead’ as it were. Few seemed outraged, but a single goal ‘away lead’ is something other teams came to take off Barcelona. Like Chelsea, teams playing them at home banked on the break. It was never supposed to be the other way around. Now, it has happened.
 
 
  
 
 Perhaps what lay at the root of this counter-evolution, in FC Barcelona’s shunning of their identity, was the need to adapt and that need was being made paramount. Whether or not this was necessary, is a matter of debate but it seemed amply clear that Barcelona were shedding an old skin to adopt an even older one.
 
 As a fierce old foe, Chelsea have always forced Barcelona to question, perhaps even doubt, their philosophy but never succeeded in forcing them to discard it for immediate gains. On Tuesday, Ernesto Valverde was penciling in a 4-4-2. One doesn’t remember the last time the avid proponents of the 4-3-3 (even the 3-4-3) or the outrageously revolutionary four-midfielder, zero-striker concept, lined up in football’s most predictable system.
 
 For the last 13 seasons or so, ever since Frank Rijkaard first began fashioning this philosophy and it reached its high noon under Guardiola, Barcelona swiftly developed as the lone idea that would never change its style. Playing ‘your game’, whether playing at home or away, is often considered the gold standard of an era-defining side – like in Liverpool’s heyday.
 
 That was the essential Barcelona ethos: Possession was paramount, attack was the ideal. It’s not that they won all of them, but they did it every other week in the Spanish League, a feature that got amplified when the shrill   knockouts came around, lending that Barcelona myth even greater resonance.
 
 Whatever transpires in the second leg – a customary three-prong attack, the inter-passing game flowing freely across the expansive width – in the first, Barcelona became just another side in top flight football. They were not even workmanlike. Few would even call them overrated.
 
