CHENNAI: Chennai Metro Rail Limited on Monday began regular trial runs on the 4-km stretch of   between Little Mount and Saidapet which is expected to be thrown open to the public in April after a delay of nearly two years. Officials said a metro train began its maiden run from the elevated section near Little Mount station and snaked into the tunnels 18metres underground through a ramp built across the  . 

 The train then reached Saidapet metro station upon which it was operated in the tunnels for about 3.3km till AG-DMS metro station. The AG-DMS to Saidapet stretch is part of the corridor that connects   with the airport. The stretch has four underground stations - Saidapet, Nandanam, Teynampet and AG-DMS.
 
 “It is a step towards commissioning of the corridor for the public facing regular congestion on  ,” a release from CMRL said. 
 
 Officials said they expect to inaugurate the Little Mount to Saidapet stretch along with the Central Metro-Nehru Park line on April 14. Trial runs between Central metro station and   began in January 2018.
 
 In July 2017, CMRL had operated a locomotive on the Little Mount to AG-DMS stretch but it did not conduct trials continuously, as station work and installation of certain systems were still underway. “From now on, the trials will be conducted regularly,” an official said. Once the line is operational, commuters will be able to reach the airport in less than 30 minutes, a journey which may otherwise take nearly an hour on the road. 
 
 However, commuters will have to wait a bit longer for the same stretch to connect with Central metro station, through the rest of the Anna Salai line, via Thousand Lights, LIC, Government Estate and May Day Park stations. The 4.5km stretch between AG-DMS and May Day Park is expected to be ready by the end of 2018 or early 2019.
 
 Officials said installation of various critical systems like tunnel ventilation, HVAC, signalling, platform screen doors and automatic fare collection gates have been completed. 
 
 At present, final touches are being given to the entry-exit points built on either side of the four underground stations. Simultaneously, work is also underway to restore the road surface on Anna Salai that was excavated for the construction of the tunnels and the stations. Officials said two-way traffic will soon be restored on the stretch between AG-DMS and Saidapet.
 
 The 4-km line was part of the stretch on Anna Salai where work was stalled for more than a year after a Russian contractor abandoned construction midway citing a financial crisis.
 
 
