JAIPUR: The   (MCI), which exposed the state government’s lack of preparedness while submitting seven   for approval in the state, has made some shocking revelations in its report of the executive committee meeting held on December 14 last year.

 For the proposed medical college in Sikar, the MCI has termed dean Dr   as ineligible to hold the post, while in Churu, the MCI team found clean and septic cases kept in the same labour room. In Barmer too, septic labour rooms were not found available.
 
 The seven medical colleges have been proposed in Barmer, Bharatpur, Bhilwara,  , Pali, Churu and Sikar.
 
 According to the MCI report, Dr Goverdhan Meena has a combined experience as professor and associate professor of eight years and eight months as against the requirement of 10 years. “Hence, he is not eligible to hold the post,” says MCI report, which was sent to the Centre. In Dungarpur, the team did not find any medical superintendent.
 
 On the medical college in Pali, the MCI inspection team report says, “Dr  , dean, is also working as professor of anaesthesiology at SN Medical College, Jodhpur.”
 
 After inspection in Barmer, conducted in November, the MCI team found that the “administrative experience of Dr B L Masuria, medical superintendent is not provided; hence it is not possible to verify whether his appointment is as per regulations or not”.
 
 In Pali, Sikar and Barmer, the dean’s office had not been filled. In Churu, the central library was under construction and not furnished. There were no books and journals available, and the MCI inspection team also did not find any internet nodes.
 
 The team also mentioned specifically that they found four tables in the ophthalmology operation theatre (OT) in some colleges, which was not as per norms.
 
 Also, the surgical intensive care unit and ethylene oxide (ETO) sterilizers were not available in most of the proposed medical colleges.
 
 Similarly, central oxygen and central suction units, disaster trolleys, crash carts were not found during the inspection. In Bhilwara and Dungarpur, dissection tables and cadavers, which are major requirements for medical colleges, were not found available.
 
 Besides, the proposed medical colleges were found lacking in equipment.
 
 
 
