MANGALURU: The   (SEC) has declared Bantwal and Mangaluru City North, Assembly constituencies as ‘expense sensitive constituencies’ (ESC). The constituencies are represented by minister   and Congress MLA B A  , respectively .

 The decision came in the backdrop of information obtained through state intelligence agencies, with regards to possible use of money for votes in the constituencies. It may be recalled that Mohiuddin Bava was seen in a picture distributing saris to residents in his constituency, recently. Similarly, he had distributed books and other freebies in his constituency, to commemorate his birthday last year.
 
 To ensure free and fair elections in these ESCs, the commission will maintain an extra vigil in the two constituencies.
 
 Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner (DC) Sasikanth Senthil said a decision to declare Bantwal and Mangaluru North constituencies ESCs, was taken by the SEC. He said the commission will form 24 model code of conduct teams in the district, to monitor violations on part of political parties. In addition, 26 static surveillance teams, 26 flying squads and 26 checkposts will be introduced to check violations of the model code of conduct, the DC said, adding that additional observers will be deployed for Bantwal and Mangaluru North constituencies, which are declared as ESCs.
 
 As a preventive action, 550 cases have been registered under Section 107 of the CrPC (security for keeping the peace in other cases). The police department and the district administration have shortlisted 11,955 licenced arms which will have to be surrendered during the election. The Election Commission will use GPS-based vehicle tracking and GIS enabled comprehensive database of polling stations with digital maps, for the election. The commission will integrate all election monitoring facilities under one platform. Tracking and swift intervention on critical complaints will be made possible through GIS. As many as 18 cases registered during previous elections are pending in various courts. Similarly, the Election Commission has disposed of 84 complaints received in the previous election, he added.
 
 
