MADURAI: The fire in   on Friday night was a disaster waiting to happen for a long time. Fire officers said the accident should be taken as a wake-up call and periodical fire safety audit should be done in all major temples. At present, such audits are not being conducted regularly.

 A senior officer from the   said that they warned authorities concerned on multiple occasions earlier. However, the officials from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department did not take precautionary steps. He said that a slew of fire accidents during temple car festivals resulted in the state government issuing a circular in 2012 to ensure fire safety audit being done before such processions.
 
 “It is not that we have not warned them about the danger before, but the warnings went unheeded. We have given oral suggestions for streamlining of electrical wires during meetings. We have also warned the authorities against storing plastic items in the shops,” he said.
 
 Shopkeepers inside the temple premises do not want to spend money and end up using low quality wires. Inappropriate connections without knowing the load capacity of a junction is also an issue, he said.
 
 Another officer said that fire safety inspections were carried out only during big festivals like ‘kumbabishekam’, where temporary thatched roofs would be set up to cater to the huge gathering. “Not many temples in the state has so many shops inside the premises,” he said. According to officers, electrical short circuit is the major cause of fire in the last 10 years. It is suspected to be the cause in Friday’s incident too.
 
 Joint commissioner of   said that they have not received any fire safety suggestion, at least since the time he took over in the last three years. He said they would have taken steps if they were alerted.
 
 He also said that had it taken place during the day, it could have been spotted earlier and quelled immediately. But by the time it was spotted, it had already engulfed many shops and the blaze could not be controlled immediately.
 
 
