Pune: The alleged derogatory remarks he made about a Maratha warrior king not just got   a sacked from his party and post, but also earned him the ire of prison inmates, who roughed him up on Saturday.

 The beleaguered former deputy mayor of the Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation was arrested by the Ahmednagar police and produced before the Ahmednagar court at about 8 am on Saturday. The court remanded him to 14 days of magisterial custody. However, when he was taken to the sub-jail, he was beaten up by the inmates. The prison officers then shifted him to Yerawada central prison in the evening.
 
 Chhindam was dismissed by the BJP on Friday and was told to resign from the deputy mayor’ post. Stones were pelted on his house in Ahmednagar and the BJP office in Aurangabad was also ransacked.
 
 Talking to TOI, the prison authorities said Chhindam was shifted to Yerawada because he is a politician and the central prison has better security. A senior officer from Ahmednagar police said Chhindam was manhandled and slapped by inmates in the sub-jail. It is a small prison and inmates move about freely inside its compound. His remarks had infuriated the inmates, and they beat Chhindam as soon as he was taken to the yard. “He has not sustained any injury,” the officer said.
 
 The prison authorities in Pune said Chhindam was brought to Pune and was lodged in the Yerawada central prison at 6.30 pm.
 
 Meanwhile, tension gripped Ahmednagar city, about 120km from here, over the derogatory remarks passed by Chhindam on Friday. Chhindam had allegedly made the derogatory remarks while speaking to a municipal worker. Many political parties and other organisations on Saturday protested against the former deputy mayor.
 
 Ahmednagar corporator Dilip Satpute has lodged a complaint against Chhindam, who was arrested under IPC Sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 298 (uttering words with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person).
 
 
