KOCHI: The Synod of Syro-Malabar Church getting underway in Kochi has constituted a commission of bishops to look into the controversial land deal which had put three priests, including the Church head Cardinal Mar George  , in the bad light.

 The five-member commission headed by   archbishop   should hold discussions with all the stakeholders and sort out the issues at the earliest.
 
 The Synod held detailed discussions on the land deal as a section of priests from the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese had sent a letter to the Synod members seeking urgent intervention in the issue.
 
 “On the basis of our letter, the Synod held a detailed discussion on the issue. Recognizing the gravity of the issue, the Synod decided to deploy a Synodal commission to look into the issue,” a senior priest with Syro-Malabar Church said. “Earlier, the archdiocese authorities had deployed a committee to probe the issue. The committee had found irregularities in the land deal. The committee had also found involvement of three priests including Cardinal Mar George Alencherry in the deal. On Wednesday morning, the Synodal Commission will hold talks with the members of the committee which conducted the initial probe,” he said.
 
 The Synodal Commission will discuss the issue with  , a committee of select priests of the Church, in Kochi at 3 pm. A section of the Church sees it as a move to put an end to the entire controversy before the Synod ends. But, another section of priests strongly believes that the issue would be brought to the notice of Pope. “So far as Syro-Malabar Church is concerned ‘Code of Canonical Laws for the Oriental Churches’ is binding. As per the canonical laws Synod which is a forum of Bishops can’t judge Cardinal who hold the topmost post in the Church. A judgment on the likes of Cardinal can be passed by none other than the Pope. So, even if the   wants to settle the issue, they will have to bring the issue to the notice of Pope for taking a final decision,” a senior priest said.
 
 “Even if the Synodal Commission fails to send the report to the Pope, priests in the Church may bring it to the notice of Pope,” sources said. Besides  , bishops Mar Jacob Manathodath, Mar Thomas Chakyath, Mar George Madathikkandathil and Mar Antony Kariyil are there in the Commission.
 
 
