A unique love story is all set to hit the tube today. ' ', which premieres tonight and will air every Monday to Friday at 9 pm on  , is about two strangers, one mysterious accident and the story that unfolds thereafter. Featuring the vivacious   and dynamic Harshad Chopda in the lead, the show tells the tale of Zoya and Aditya in what promises to be a perfect amalgamation of romance, drama and mystery. 

 Manisha Sharma, Programming Head, Colors, says, “'Bepannaah' is unlike any other love story; it is about what happened one night when the worlds of two strangers collided and the circumstances that forced them to accept the reality of a big betrayal. The story goes on to follow what happened that fateful night when two people died, leaving behind a widower and a widow. Will they find love together again, knowing that they are connected through a bigger betrayal? That's the question.”
 
 In a candid chat, Jennifer and Harshad share their thoughts on love, lust and infidelity. Excerpts from the interview:
 
 
 
 
 
  We grow up believing that love is like a fairytale that comes with all things good. What no one points out is, how hard it is to live up to love or the tests along the way, small or big. Compassion, loyalty and respect sum up love for me — it’s a mix that’s very rare to find and even harder to imbibe. Through my character Zoya, I portray love in its truest form, she knows no other way. I am sure that all those truly in love, will instantly resonate with her.
 
 
  Love is a commitment to accept your partner just the way he/she is; it’s never about finding a perfect partner. It's about two imperfect people who come together to make a perfect relationship.
 
 
 
 
 
 There’s a difference between lust and passionate love. Lust can’t just creep in. You’ll not find it where true love exists, but it has power enough to shatter the world you’ve worked so hard to create with love and sometimes, it suddenly changes how you perceived love to begin with. Love then doesn’t live there anymore.
 
 
  It’s easy to be confused between love and lust, because lust feels a lot like love. However, love trumps lust, always! My character Aditya is a perfectionist with a passion for life; his wife, however, is more like his best friend as opposed to a lover and therein lies the problem in this equation.
 
 
 
 
 
 Very! It’s all or nothing for me. I think faith is the very foundation of a relationship. If you are commitment-phobic and can’t be faithful, it's okay for you to live by your own rules. But not when you’ve pledged true love to someone. They then become bound to you in faith, too. I back the concept of being faithful a 100%, a lack of it is not just cheating on your significant other, but yourself, too.
 
 
  Looking for a way out of a tough situation is easy. Cheating sometimes feels more feasible, but I think we should challenge ourselves and stick by the ones we love. We got there because we cared to begin with, so, I would like to see it right through till the end.
 
 
