Coimbatore: After a calm 2017, a combination of global developments and local policy decisions has brought volatility back to the Indian stock markets. 

 India VIX, a key measure of market expectations of near-term volatility conveyed by the Nifty index option prices, has gone up 27% since January 31. 
 
 The volatility index has surged above 20 for the first time in 14 months. If India VIX is above 23%-24%, it is not seen as an encouraging sign for the bulls.
 
 While the Nifty has corrected by about 5%, the CNX mid-cap index is down 11% from its highs. Nifty and India VIX are strongly correlated with a negative correlation of 0.74. 
 
 As the VIX index increases, market corrects. In the past, a sharp surge in VIX was accompanied by an underlying correction. The market slump after the union budget, which imposed a long-term capital gains tax on shares and equity mutual funds after 14 years, has eroded more than Rs 10 lakh crore in investor wealth from the peak levels in a week. The sharp surge in mid-caps over the last three years meant that they had started trading at a premium. This premium kept expanding led by consistent inflows from in domestic institutional investors, especially mutual funds.
 
 In fact, mid-caps are still trading at a premium of 39% to large-caps after hitting an all-time high in January this year. Though the recent market correction has moderated this premium, it still remains high. 
 
 The ‘Nifty Mid-Cap 100 Index’ has commanded an 11% premium to the Nifty on an average. The Nifty Mid-Cap 100 outperformed the Nifty by 66% between January 2013 and January 2018. While the mid-cap index surged 249% during the timeframe, the Nifty gained 183%.
 
 The journey of the Indian equity markets in 2017 was one of consistent uptrend without volatility. The Nifty returned 29% in during the year without a single fall of even 5%. “What makes this more noteworthy is that this happened in a year characterised by significant and disruptive reforms like GST (Goods and Services Tax), Insolvency and Bankruptcy Court resolution for NPAs (non-performing assets), and RERA (Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act),” analysts at Motilal Oswal Securities said.
 
 “While the mid-cap index is still trading at a rich premium to large-cap, the Nifty valuations are far more reasonable,” they said. 
 
 “After the recent correction, the Nifty is now trading at 17.7x (times) one-year forward earnings, at a 5% premium to its long-term average of 16.9x (times),” the analysts said.
 
 
