DIMAPUR: When voters in Nagaland's commercial capital Dimapur pressed the EVM button on Tuesday, development was the first thing on their mind. A wide spectrum of voters TOI interacted with said solution to the Naga political problem was very important, but better roads and employment growth was the demand of the day. 

 "See the condition of the roads here," said Somi R Naorem, a 34-year-old housewife, pointing at a stretch where stones were embedded in mud. "Yes, we people in Dimapur want a solution to the Naga issue, but the priority is development." Naorem had come to know that the candidate of Dimapur-I she had just voted for would be visiting the booth and she sat waiting for him. "I want to tell him to keep his word if he wins. Give us better infrastructure," she said.
 
 Akum from neighbouring Dimapur-II had cast his vote and sat outside a school building with his brother as police personnel took over the polling station over allegations of voter fraud. "It's development and jobs for me first, then solution," he said. The 30-year-old Sema Naga youth said he was unemployed.
 
 Dozens of voters said development came first among all their concerns. 
 
 Electoral spirit was in display as people at quite a few booths queued up to vote as early as 6am when the process was to start at 7am. They stayed put despite having to wait for two hours due to EVM glitches. Helping ease their situation were party workers who distributed little brown packets with samosas and jalebis. When an elderly person complained that they needed to serve water too, a jovial volunteer said: "Dadu (grandfather) one shouldn't drink water after having fried stuff."
 
 Bad roads seem to be the focal point of voter angst. "We want better infrastructure, better roads," said  , who works with a pharma company in Guwahati and has come all the way to exercise his franchise. "I'll be returning tomorrow," he said at  .
 
 At another polling booth at  , a farmer, queued up to vote. He said good candidates mattered more to him than parties and their promises. 
 
 Not everyone went home happy that they had done their bit to try and bring in a candidate who would focus attention on development. "I came to vote but was told by officials that someone had already cast my vote," said a dejected  . A software engineer, who runs an IT solutions and training centre, had come to the polling station with his wife and 3-year-old daughter. His wife, luckily, got to vote.
 
 
