CHENNAI: The Madras   on Thursday directed the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and the city corporation to initiate a joint inspection into the alleged encroachment on a   body by Annai Velankanni Shrine in  .

 A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and T Rajamanickam said, “In the light of facts and circumstances, the CMDA official concerned as well as the corporation, after putting the church on notice, cause a joint inspection and file a status report with supporting documents including photographs by June 5.”
 
 The court passed the interim order on a   moved by K Gopi, a fisherman and resident of Odaima Nagar, Besant Nagar.
 
 According to Gopi, fishermen communities have been living in Odaikuppam hamlet for generations. It is now popularly known as Besant Nagar beach. 
 
 “There used to be a   in the hamlet which was our only source of drinking water as we live close to the shore. This also reflects in the revenue records prior to 1987,” he said.
 
 “Due to influx of outsiders, the surrounding areas of the hamlet were made into a concrete jungle, destroying all the natural waterways. It also resulted in drying up of the pond,” advocate A P Suryaprakasam representing the petitioner said.
 
 This apart, Annai Velankanni Shrine has encroached the pond by manipulating revenue records, levelled the surface and started using it as a parking area, he added.
 
 “Every time the villagers make complaints to the authorities, assurance is given that the encroachment would be removed and steps would be taken to restore the pond. But to the shock of the petitioner, a huge board has been put by the church management informing the public that a new church is going to be constructed on the land. The church is trying to build a new structure not only on the encroached water body, but also violating  , within 100 meters from the high tideline of the shore,” Suryaprakasam said. 
 
 As the authorities failed to respond to a representation, the petitioner has approached the high court.
 
 
