SHAHKOT: Before accompanying   nominee Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia for filing his nomination papers for the   assembly byelection, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, while addressing a rally on Thursday, emphasized that the seat would give ruling Congress a two-third majority, crucial at times for making laws.

 As Shahkot is largely a rural and Panthic seat, apart from highlighting launching of debt waiver for farmers, the CM and   president   made scathing attacks on Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sikh issues, especially its failure to get the GST waiver on langar at the Golden Temple.
 
 Several senior leaders of Punjab Congress were present on the occasion. The bypoll is a major challenge for the Congress as the in the last 40 years, barring 1992 when Akalis boycotted the assembly polls, the seat has remained with the SAD. Late Akali leader Ajit Singh Kohar had won from Shahkot fifth time in a row in 2017 and the now party has fielded his son Naib Singh Kohar.
 
 “When some laws have to be changed, two-third majority is required and now this is an opportunity to strengthen the government for better future of Punjab,” Amarinder said. Showering praises on Laddi, Amarinder said the constituency would be looked after well.
 
 “We waived off the GST on langar at  . In fact it is not the first time. When I became the CM in 2002, then SGPC leaders wrote to me that sale tax was being levied on langar purchases. I asked the SGPC leaders that the SAD had remained in power for five years and why did they not get it done from them. They said Badal did not agree even as they had asked for it. This shows their real face. How can they run Punjab after forgetting Gurus. I don’t know if Badal senior would come here but ask Sukhbir Badal about these issues when he comes here,” Amarinder said.
 
 He also blamed the SAD for trifurcation of Punjab stating that it damaged the state. “They got the state trifurcated as in the undivided Punjab they could not have their government. They wanted to give away “Hindu area” of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh so that Parkash Singh Badal and his coterie could rule Punjab and see how they have ruined the state since then,” he said.
 
 He also mentioned 550th anniversary of the founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev, stating that it would be celebrated on a grand scale. Historic town Sultanpur Lodhi, which would be at the centre of these celebrations, is Shahkot’s neighbouring constituency.
 
 Amarinder said his government was on the track of fulfilling all the promises of the manifesto, most important of which was the debt waiver. They ruined health and education sectors in Punjab during their rule. Even in jails they could not provide the required strength of staff,” he said.
 
 Amarinder also mocked SAD president Sukhbir Badal for his statement that Laddi should be arrested for registration of an FIR against him. “Are you the Election Commission? Badal senior can’t speak, and now younger Badal is saying all sorts of things,” he said. The CM repeatedly praised Laddi and put his weight behind him.
 
 Former CM Rajinder Kaur Bhattal also addressed the rally. It was clear that Kapurthala MLA Rana Gurjit Singh, who is Laddi’s mentor, was handling most of the things at the rally.
 
 The Chief Minister also took a dig at the SAD for spreading ‘canards’ on the issue of History syllabus of twelfth standard and politicizing the issue. He said it was SAD’s education minister   who had set up the committee in 2014, for review and finalization of the History syllabus.
 
 ‘Badals can’t look into the eyes of the PM’
 
 Taking potshots at Badals, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said people considered they were partners in the government but actually they could not even look into the eyes of the Prime Minister due to their own weaknesses. “When they go to PM Modi for anything, he takes out the Enforcement Directorate file (apparently referring to synthetic drug racket case being probed by ED) and tells them that the EC officers came to him to ask what should be done about that. After this they forget Panth, Punjab and all issues, including those of the farmers and return empty handed,” Jakhar alleged.
 
 
