Mumbai: Technology — machine learning, artificial intelligence (AI), internet of things (IoT) and predictive analytics — is remaking the business landscape. In its India salary benchmark report for 2018, professional recruitment consultancy firm Michael Page said companies across consumer, logistics and healthcare will be searching for technology professionals with relevant skills, such as digital transformation, data security and cyber security.

 The report, which focuses on multiple sectors such as sales and marketing, legal, digital, engineering, marketing as well as supply chain and procurement, said companies are offering an average salary rise of 26-30% for candidates to move jobs.
 
 In procurement and supply chain, the report said India is on the cusp of becoming the manufacturing and shared services hub for Southeast Asia, with demand for professionals skilled in logistics, planning, strategic procurement, warehousing and inventory expected to see a significant rise.
 
 However, in banking and financial services 2018 will see steady demand for candidates across functions such as risk,  ,   and  . Roles in credit   and data sciences will continue to grow within fintech companies and NBFCs, according to the report.
 
 Michael Page India MD Nicolas Dumoulin said, “Bolstered by the economic growth observed in 2017, talent acquisition also witnessed an uptick across several sectors. With the government constantly pushing reforms to receive economic growth through proactive measures, Michael Page India is anticipating these optimistic trends to continue across the key sectors.”
 
 The economy has created demand for highly specialised job roles which require skilled professionals, which include digital marketing heads, head of taxation with GST implementation experience, compliance specialists as well as engineering experts in cloud, full stack, AI and UI/UX (user interface/user experience).
 
 As an increasing number of companies continue to digitalise and automate their processes, Michael Page said those who can acquire experience in such projects will have the competitive edge in securing jobs.
 
 
