With the summer vacations on the head,   are left sifting for ideas to engage their kids and make their break interesting and fun.
There are reasons children have 'summer break' in schools - first, to provide ample of bonding time with family and second, to help kids nurture their personalities.
 
 While most of the parents move out for a week or two with kids, preferably to a much cooler location such as hill stations or beaches like Goa, there is a big chunk of summer holidays that remains and could be utilised to polish the child's personality, if planned properly.
 So, here is a list of engaging and productive activities for your kids.
 
 
 
 There was a time when summer did not mean watching endless hours of television, being busy on cell phones or indulging in mindless conversations. In those times, it was about getting lost in a book, playing interactive outdoor games, writing letters to pen pals, and so much more.
 
 Would not it be wonderful if parents can bring back such activities for their kids and let them have a feel of old-school summers? According to to Vikas Sharma, AVP, Eupheus Learning, Activities like these are not only incredibly fun but also educational for them
 
 
 
 The weather is hot, and all are used to being in a controlled environment, with ACs switched on 24x7. However, the now-parents had the immunities sorted better then what today's kids have.
 
 "Nobody would want to send out their kids in the park, mid-afternoon, but if the child is only concentrating on indoor activities, chances are that he or she might turn out unsociable," said Indra Kohli, Principal of Delhi Public School, Gautam Budh Nagar, Noida.
 
 Whether team-based or individual, sports can build confidence, self-esteem, and teamwork amongst children. Apart from ensuring an active lifestyle, it develops a steady passion for discipline, motivation, and commitment. Parents with no background in sports can enroll their children in a sports club where the child will be exposed to several wonderful sports till he picks up a keen interest in something. So, this summer doesn't slow down, let the kid freak out and enjoy their favourite game.
 
 
 
 In the current times, it is very important to make kids responsible towards the environment and help them bond with nature. Free from the distractions of technology, a nature camp for a week can be a big booster in fostering the love for Mother Nature and make them realise its importance for a sustainable living. Other benefits of nature camps include - ample time to relax, share, explore and learn a whole lot of fascinating things about nature, indulge in nature photography, bird watching and enjoying eco-friendly. Parents, it's time to bring your kid a step closer to nature.
 
 
 
 "There is no friend as loyal as a book" - Today's kids are not very well versed with this mantra with their laptops and tablets handy.
 Declining reading habit in kids is a cause of grave concern across the world. Reading has a central part in a child's education and in preparing them for life after school. It helps children develop emotionally, socially, intellectually and culturally.
 
 Reading books can help kids develop better SPAG skills (Spelling, Punctuation, and Grammar) leading to better fluency, appreciative vocabulary and a more refined exposure to ideas and concepts; book clubs initiate a better understanding of perspectives that instills participation and discussion.
 
 
 
 In today's digital era, it is not possible to get kids off the screens, but parents can definitely try and ensure that the time is used productively. If the kids are older than 5 years, there are umpteen coding clubs today that ensure coding can be fun and interactive.
 With the help of blocks and visualizing tool, kids can be taught literally any subject and utilise the screen time in the best way possible. 
 
 
