PUNE: A gang of five school dropouts ran out of luck on Tuesday and landed in police net after stealing seven automated teller machines (ATMs) from Pune and other districts.

 The Kondhwa police arrested the five for stealing two ATMs totally containing cash of Rs21 lakh from a kiosk at the busy   between October and December last year.
 
 The suspects used a stolen sports utility vehicle (SUV) to conduct the robberies. They had modified the vehicle — an idea they got from the popular   action flick ‘Fast and Furious’, fourth in the sequence. 
 
 
  
 
 The result of their experiment left the police baffled — they made away with an entire cash vending machine within two-and-half minutes sharp. The suspects used a special equipment, custom-made to remove cash trays from the ATM, without causing any harm to the currency notes.
 
 Probe revealed that the gang had stolen seven ATMs — two from Pune and the rest from Solapur, Satara,  , Sangli and Karad. “The gang made a total cash of Rs40 lakh after the thefts,” said Deepak Sakore, deputy commissioner of police (zone-IV).
 
 On October 8, the gang stole an ATM from Khadi Machine Chowk in Kondhwa, loaded with cash of Rs 16.48 lakh. They struck once again on December 30 and fled with a machine containing Rs 4.52 lakh cash from the same kiosk.
 
 A police team led by senior inspector   has recovered one ATM from the suspects —   (52) of Kolhapur and   (41),   (53), Dadapir Tehsildar (38) and Malikjan Hanikeri (52), all from Belgavi in Karnataka.
 
 During probe, the police could not obtain CCTV footage of the crime as the suspects had cut all the wires connected to the cameras. The scrutiny of mobile phone data didn’t help either. “Tyre marks outside the kiosk were the only clue we had,” said Milind Patil, assistant commissioner of police.
 
 He said without any technical assistance, the Kondhwa police ascertained the identity of Dilip More, who was picked up from Kolhapur. “During interrogation, More admitted to his involvement in the thefts and revealed names of his four accomplices. They were immediately taken into custody from Kolhapur,” Patil said.
 
 
 
 
 Inspector Milind Gaikwad said More, who has cases of sandalwood and vehicle thefts against him, was arrested by the Belgavi police in 1993. He got in touch with Siraj Jamadar during his court visits there. The other three suspects are Siraj’s acquaintances.
 
 More had purchased a 12-room hotel near Mahalaxmi temple in Kolhapur and taken a loan of Rs 9 lakh for its maintenance. “To repay the loan, More decided to steal cash from ATMs with the help of Siraj and others,” Gaikwad said.
 
 In 2012, More stole an SUV from Kolhapur. “With Siraj’s help, he modified the vehicle and started stealing ATMs,” Gaikwad said. “After the robberies, More used to keep the lion’s sum of the stolen amount with himself and distribute the rest among his accomplices,” Gaikwad said, adding, “Besides repaying the loan, the suspects would spend the money on merrymaking.”
 
 
