NEW DELHI: A chargesheet has been filed by the crime branch against the capital’s alleged flesh trade queen,   alias Geeta Arora, for   a 16-year-old girl. Sonu had been back in business, this time in a more organised manner. More arrests are likely in the case, police said.

 Police have also charged her confidante, Sandeep, who trafficked the girl on her instructions. Joint commissioner (crime) Alok Kumar confirmed the developments. The accused have been charged under IPC sections of rape, criminal conspiracy and confinement of a minor for prostitution.
 
  
  
 
 The call detail records of Sandeep, who lived in Panchsheel Vihar, and Sonu, a resident of East of Kailash, proved that they still worked together.
 
 An FIR was registered in 2014 after the girl escaped from her captors and approached police. However, she went missing soon after and the case went cold. Last year, DCP (crime) Bhisham Singh’s team was tasked with the case. “No one knew where the girl had been in the past two years, so the only lead available to us was that she was a resident of northeast Delhi,” Singh said.
 
 A special team led by woman sub-inspector Pankaj Negi and two constables, Gagan and Irfan, was formed and they began scouting temples and beauty parlours, apart from conducting a survey in different localities. After getting no leads, the team began contemplating filing an untraced report after a few weeks. But ACP Sanjeev Tyagi from the cyber cell came up with crucial leads using technical surveillance.
 
 The cops located a friend of the victim, who gave them a number through which the girl was tracked. However, the girl, now aged around 20, was scared to pursue the case. Negi counselled her into recording her statement before a magistrate and the victim also identified Sonu’s house. In December 2017, Sonu was arrested from south Delhi. Her aide, Sandeep, was nabbed subsequently.
 
 The chargesheet mentions how Sonu bought the girl from another trafficker for Rs 1 lakh in 2009. After allegedly turning her into a drug addict, she began to send her to clients. After some time, the girl was sold to another trafficker in Lucknow, who passed her on to a pimp in Tilak Nagar in Delhi.
 
 In 2013, she was sold to a man in Rohtak, Haryana. The girl managed to escape and boarded a bus to Najafgarh. She went to the police station and narrated her ordeal to the cops.
 
 During questioning, Sonu and Sandeep revealed their new modus operandi. Sonu no longer sent girls to her clients nor housed them anywhere. She had turned into an aggregator wherein she sent “freelance call girls” to her clients, an officer said. She reportedly kept in touch with them only on phone and WhatsApp. She used WhatsApp’s call feature more to interact with clients and girls.
 
 She fixed meetings between the girls and clients in pubs and restaurants around Nehru Place. Her commission was either collected through runners or mobile wallet and account transfers. Her cut was a flat 30% of the deal, usually around Rs 25,000, police said.
 
 
