
 
  Significant changes are likely within the leadership of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh in March at the crucial annual meeting of Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha, its highest collective decision-making body. The alterations would herald reworking of priorities, recalibration of short and mid-term goals and formation of new equations among the top brass. Held triennially in Nagpur, its headquarters — ABPS meets annually in the interim in other cities — an ‘election’ would be held for the post of sarkaryavah or general secretary, the highest executive post in the  .
  
  The sarsanghchalak, nominated by the outgoing chief, remains unconnected with day-to-day functioning and acts as political and ethical philosopher and guide. The current sarkaryavah, Suresh alias Bhaiyyaji Joshi, is in saddle since March 2009 when KS Sudarshan nominated  , then the second most powerful man in the RSS. Bhagwat too was sarkaryavah for nine years.
  
  While sarsanghchalaks traditionally remain under spotlight, the sarkaryavah is pivotal and appoints his team of office-bearers. He also deputes leaders to oversee functioning of various affiliates. New appointees post-March will provide indication of emphasis and preference of the new sarkaryavah, most likely Dattatreya Hosabale. Only rarely have there been disagreements over appointments. The sarkaryavah is usually provided freehand in selections but is expected to remain within ‘norms’.
  
  In the event of Hosabale being elected, he would be the first sarkaryavah from outside the ‘shakha’ system. Hosabale moved laterally after spending initial years in the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parisad. Joshi in contrast, before becoming sarkaryavah, was All India Sewa Pramukh after numerous years in Sewa Bharati, the division specialising in post-disaster relief work.
  
  Many leaders and ministers in the Centre and in states were part of ABVP when Hosabale oversaw its activities. In his early 60s, he is younger than Joshi whose dodgy knees became his proverbial Achilles’ heel. This would enable Hosabale to impart greater dynamism to activities of RSS not just in the build-up to 2019 but also to prepare for the RSS centenary in 2025.
  
  During the 2014 polls, the RSS put its might behind BJP only from 2013 after endorsing Modi as its PM candidate. In contrast, it is a stakeholder now in BJP retaining political hegemony and considers the BJP victory in 2019 as triumph for entire sangh parivar.
  
  In recent years, Hosabale acted as the bridge between RSS and BJP in UP and Bihar. Closeness with PM and BJP chief will ensure greater cohesion between the party and RSS. That Hosabale’s elevation is now near certainty indicates RSS being more election-oriented. Because of his ABVP past, Hosable is considered a political pragmatist over traditional pracaharks.
  
  Of late , the ABVP lost several university elections and RSS brass is aware that its influence among students must not slip and therefore it has realised the need to bolster ABVP. This will be easier with an old hand at the helm.
  
  It is also expected that the new general secretary will reposition pracahraks in different affiliates at the centre and in states, including in BJP. Of late, there has also been a viewpoint that Nagpur ‘secretariat’ must have a ‘direct’ representative in BJP’s central leadership to ensure hands-on engagement with day-to-day functioning.
  
  Pravin Togadia’s recent behaviour provides indication of developments beneath the surface. After allowing him to function as a loose canon for long, there is growing demand to either sideline him or chip away at VHP’s influence.
  
  Last week, elections for the post of VHP’s international president was postponed indefinitely after the Togadia group refused to make way for former HP governor VS Kokje.
  
  There will be a concerted effort to ease out Togadia once the new sarkaryavah is elected. Since formation of the Modi government, RSS has not deputed new pracharaks to VHP.
  
  Likewise, ‘cleansing’ is expected in other affiliates repeatedly adding to headaches of the Modi government. These include Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, Swadeshi Jagran Manch and  .
  
  The RSS emphasises ‘constitutional nationalism’ - raising Hindutva-centric issues within the constitutional framework - as against ‘anarchic populism’ which it feels has been hallmark of VHP and economic hardliners. The effort is not allow any affiliate in the parivar to put a spoke in the BJP wheel.
  
