Kanyakumari: “Kanyakumari is the only district in Tamil Nadu that was affected by Cyclone Ockhi.” It is one among the shocking replies that Union minister of state for ministry of science and technology and ministry of Earth sciences, YS Chowdary gave in writing to a question in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday. The minister’s reply stated that the cyclone claimed 24 human lives in Tamil Nadu, including 22 in Kanyakumari and one each in Tuticorin and Nagapattinam. It added that 237 people were missing and 28 people were injured. He added that 25,526 trees were uprooted or broken while 7,654 animal lives were claimed in Kanyakumari district. On infrastructural damage, the reply stated that 15,858 electric poles including 5,235 HT poles were damaged in this district. The minister said that 38 tanks and 31 channels suffered breaches while 98.93 km of National Highways, 75.046 km of state Highways and 417.18 km of other roads were damaged in Kanyakumari district. Kanyakumari district is the most affected by the cyclone in Tamil Nadu. But the neighbouring district Tirunelveli also suffered losses due to the cyclone (on November 30). It may be recalled that last week principal secretary for agriculture, government of Tamil Nadu, Gagandeep Singh Bedi told reporters that 1,600 hectares banana and other plantations and crops in Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts were damaged by the cyclone. It may also be recalled that only because the cyclone caused notable damage to the district the five member central team visited Tirunelveli district on December 29 and assessed damages caused to a bridge that was broken among other places that were affected in that district. The area of crop damage in Kanyakumari district as mentioned in the minister’s reply is 5,135 hectares against the 6,000 hectares as claimed by a senior official here. The minister’s reply also stated that 7,098 huts were damaged by the cyclone in Kanyakumari district, including 1,108 fully damaged and 5,990 partly damaged huts. There is no mention on the hundreds of concrete houses that were partly and fully damaged when giant trees fell on them. On infrastructural damage, Chowdary has stated that 384 boats were fully damaged or lost in Kerala and 37 boats partially or fully damaged in Lakshadweep. Interestingly, there was no mention of the boats damaged in Tamil Nadu. The minister in his three page reply on Friday claimed that data in his replies were as on December 27. It is worth mentioning that a Centre team visited the cyclone affected areas here on December 28 and 29.