Bengaluru: Swallowing is no smooth task, at least for some. A one-year-old girl born with hearing impairment recently had to be rushed to hospital as the food she swallowed entered her airway an even led to pneumonia.

 The child was diagnosed with  , a disorder related to swallowing, and was treated at S R Chandrasekhar Institute of Speech and Hearing, which on Thursday launched a a clinic dedicated to treating patients like her. The institute gets over 20 children and 10-15 adults with swallowing problems every month.
 
 A 62-year-old man who survived a stroke three months ago had trouble in swallowing food. Deprived of nutrition, he lost 10 kgs in three months. “While his speech and language were not affected by the stroke, he suffered from dysphagia. He was hungry but couldn’t eat, and was fed liquid food through tubes. There are techniques to make a person learn how to swallow, chew and masticate. We recently gave him chicken soup and he was delighted,” said Dr B S Premalatha, HOD of speech and language studies at the institute.
 
 ‘6% schoolchildren suffer from disorder’
 
 Over 6% of schoolgoing children suffer from dysphagia, says research by Charlette L D’Souza, a former student of the institute and speech and hearing specialist at Sakra World Hospital.
 
 Simply put, a 30-minute lunch break is not sufficient for such children to finish their meals, which results in low nutritional intake. During her dissertation, she studied food patterns of 30 students from mainstream schools and 30 from special schools to identify difficulties in swallowing food.
 
 “I examined whether they were they able to finish the meal in the given time and manipulate food. Problems were seen in both groups. Early identification of the problem can help the patient start required exercises and get him/her to overcome it,” says D’Souza.
 
 Prof R Rangasayee, chairperson, audiology committee, international association of logopaedics and phoniatrics (IALP), who guided the research, says such children must be given appropriate time to finish food so that their diet is not compromised.
 
 
