CHENNAI : With the   passing strictures against 12 state governments, including Tamil Nadu, for their failure to set up  , the opposition parties in Tamil Nadu upped their ante against the state government on Thursday. They wanted the Edappadi K Palaniswami government to set up Lokayukta, without much delay, and adhere to the July 10 deadline set by the SC.

 The bench comprising Justice Ranjan Gogoi and Justice Navin Sinha, acting on PILs over the failure by 12 states to set up Lokayukta, directed the states to comply and submit a report to the court by July 30.
 
 “Fearing that their corruption deeds would get exposed, the AIADMK was avoiding it so far,”   working president   told reporters. “They did not respond, even after I raised the issue in the state assembly several times. With the Supreme Court now passing strictures, I hope at least now Lokayukta will be established in the state,” he said.
 
 “The EPS government was avoiding setting up Lokayukta so far, while corruption has become part and parcel of governance across all departments in the state. With the Supreme Court rejecting state’s reasons for delays, the government should quickly move and establish it within the deadline fixed by the court,” TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar said.
 
 The   too joined the fray in demanding an early implementation of Lokayukta in the state. “With the Supreme Court rejecting the contentions of the Tamil Nadu government so far, that the delay is due to the changes to certain provisions of Lokayukta by the Centre, the state government should at least now rectify itself and move ahead to set up Lokayukta,” PMK founder   said in a statement.
 
  (MNM), the party floated by actor  , who had earlier said his “first signature” if voted to power, will be to set up Lokayukta, said it is shameful that Lokayukta has not been set up in the last four years and it is one of the medicines that will cure the rampant disease called corruption. It is poetic justice that the same set of people, who are steeped in corruption have been ordered to set up the ombudsman to eradicate corruption, a statement from MNM said.
 
 
