HISAR: After hitting headlines for his spree of apologies in defamation cases, Delhi chief minister and   convener   formally announced on Sunday that his party would contest the 2019 assembly polls in  .

 The  , he said, was ready to work for a Delhi-like miracle in Haryana. Sounding the poll bugle in a well-attended rally in Hisar on Sunday, Kejriwal said he wants a “new Haryana” in which old parties and leaders have no place.
 
 “Kasam apni janmabhumi ki, Haryana mein agli sarkar AAP ki banegi aur jo kaam koi bhi party nahin kar payee, vo Kejriwal karega Haryana mein (I am taking a pledge at my birthplace that the AAP would form next government in Haryana and Kejriwal would do what other parties have failed to deliver in their regimes),” the Delhi chief minister said in his 30-minute address.
 
 He offered to provide an alternate to the people of Haryana who have given enough chances to other political parties in the past 50-odd years.
 
 Showcasing his achievements in Delhi to improve conditions of government schools and state-run hospitals, Kejriwal said he has thought of same transformation in Haryana.
 
 Playing an emotional card about his roots in Hisar, Kejriwal recalled names of the school and college where he had studied and the institution where his father used to work during their stay in Hisar.
 
 ‘Will break Delhi record in Hry polls’
 
 Kejriwal accused the Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government of disturbing social fabric of Haryana by creating castebased divisions and blamed the former   governments for corruption.
 
 In an aggressive speech at the “Haryana Bachao Rally”, Kejriwal said he is hopeful his party would even break Delhi’s record by winning highest number of assembly seats in Haryana in 2019 assembly polls.
 
 Taking a dig at the Central government, the Delhi CM said except helping big business tycoons in fleeing from country with public money, the   government had no other achievements in the past four years. He said public is now scared of depositing money with the banks, fearing loss of life savings.
 
 Ecstatic over large presence of AAP workers at the rally, Kejriwal said the farmers in Haryana were not even getting cost of their products. He also produced an affidavit filed by the Central government before the  , stating that the government cannot implement the Swaminanthan report.
 
 
