NAGPUR:   will be the   party’s prime ministerial candidate, and will be projected so, when the next general elections are held in 2019 or at earlier date as is being speculated.

 This categorical statement was made by  , chairman of All India Congress Committee’s (AICC) research wing. He is also Rajya Sabha member from Karnataka. In a media interaction, he said the party was fast gaining lost political ground across the country, as people have started seeing through the maze of fake promises made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).
 
 Gowda, who is the first Congress leader to assert that Rahul was ‘PM-ready’, said that after the Gujarat elections, where the party performed far better than was being projected, the Congress would show surprising results and win in Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh as well as Madhya Pradesh in the elections in near future.
 
 Gowda’s assertions come even as there is talk that even if the Congress is to form the government at the Centre after next general elections, it would not chose Rahul to lead the country. Gowda was in the city on invitation of Amol Deshmukh, also a member of the AICC research unit, who had done groundwork assisting Sam Pitroda in the build-up to recent Gujarat elections.
 
 Gowda was instrumental in bringing out a document ‘Real State of Economy’ before last year’s economic survey report was presented on budget-eve. This year, a similar paper is being put together, which is expected to nail the Modi government on all economic parameters. 
 
 “It will show how demonetization and hasty implementation of GST have set the country’s GDP back by 2%, causing loss of creation of Rs3 lakh crore of wealth, decline in job generation, and disruption in manufacturing sector. The health insurance plan for 10 crore people announced in the latest Union budget was nothing but a ‘jumla’, as there was no supporting budgetary allocation,” he added.
 
 Gowda also had an interaction in the city with members of civil society and professionals, where he sought views on a variety of sectors. Avantika Chitnavis spoke on need for tourism promotion based on technically sound schemes, and effective stakeholder consultations. Vijay Jawandhiya and Sharad Nimbalkar suggested agriculture be put on concurrent list as states were not able to do enough for it.
 
 Nitin Lonkar of Butibori Industries Association pointed out that MSME sector, which generated maximum jobs and contributed 40% to country’s manufacturing capacity, was neglected and subjected to dual taxation.
 
 
