BENGALURU/MANDYA: In a move that has sent shock waves rippling through political circles in the state, the   (Secular) has decided to enter into an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) to contest the forthcoming assembly elections.

 “We will contest the assembly polls together and continue the pact in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections too,” announced BSP leader Satish Chandra Misra and JD(S) secretary-general Danish Ali in New Delhi on Thursday.
 
 The BSP will contest from eight reserved and 12 general assembly constituencies across 14 districts. The JD(S) will fight the remaining 204 seats. The national presidents of both parties, H D   and Mayawati, will launch a joint campaign on February 17 in Bengaluru.
 
 In Mandya, JD(S) supremeo Gowda said talks are underway with leaders of   and CPM(I) to strike similar alliances. “The poll alliances with other political parties, barring   and  , will only be confined to this assembly election. The alliance strategy will be reviewed for the forthcoming Lok Sabha election,” Gowda said.
 
 According to a BSP leader from Karnataka, his party will contest from Hyderabad-Karnatak, Chamarajanagar and Belgavi districts.
 
 A BSP candidate, Syed Zulfikar Hashmi, was elected to the assembly for the first time in 1994, but the party’s presence in the fray may have little impact on the overall outcome, considering that its support base has eroded considerably. Different factions of the Dalit Sangharsha Samiti, the Republican Party of India, and the Dalit Panthers, which provided the cadre and worked to ensure the victory of the party's candidate in 1994, have also disintegrated.
 
 “Still, we fear that this alliance may make or mar prospects of several candidates, especially in constituencies which have a high number of Dalit votes,” a Congress leader said. “The threat is largely to Congress candidates as Dalit, Muslims and backward classes form the majority of our support base.” The sentimental attachment among Dalits to the BSP's elephant symbol is still significant in several parts of the state, he added.
 
 Hashmi was the first in South India to be elected to a state assembly on a BSP ticket. He won the 1994 elections from Bidar (Karnataka). But the party's strength weakened after he lost the elections in 1999.
 
 Hashmi, who was the president of the BSP state unit in 1999, campaigned for former Congress president,  , in the Ballari parliamentary election before joining the Congress in 2004. He then attempted to secure a party ticket for the Bidar assembly seat, but when it was refused, he contested as an independent. He lost, but he did retain his vote share.
 
 
