JAIPUR: After Jodhpur bench of Rajasthan High Court quashed the FIR against Padmaavat producer Sanjay Leela Bhansali and actors 
  and   on Tuesday, it has raised high hopes among the movie buffs who are eagerly waiting for the release of film in Rajasthan.The controversy has raised the curiosity level among the locals who want the release of period drama on the big screen, despite the fact that the film distributors are reluctant to do so.

 
  
 
 “If the movie had anything against the sentiments any people it would not have been tolerated by the 80% of the country from the past two weeks. I think the film should have been released and people should be allowed to decide for themselves,” said Rahul Garg, a CA based in Jaipur. The denizens have opined that reviews they have heard or read have ruled out the apprehensions of the protesters.
 
 "The issue has become very complex. Sometimes, they say they have no problem while they next day they have a problem. The point remains that unless you watch the movie, how will you decide that it is objectionable. They are setting a wrong precedence, which is set to be misused,” said Moksha Satya, a student based in Jaipur.
 
 Despite the quashing of the FIR by the Rajasthan High Court and   refusing the ban, the film distributors are in a fix over the security. “Two weeks have passed, still in Rajasthan no film distributor is finalized. I believe the situation is still the same. People are still reluctant and unsure about the release,” said Raj Bansal, a leading film distributor and managing director of   Paradise said.
 
 Prakash Hassani of Maya Mandir Cinema Halls in Ajmer and Kisgangarh says that they are monitoring the situation and believed that film is a magnum opus even if it released after six months. "I personally feel that public sentiments should be respected. So far the reviews we have learnt says that movie is a greatest tribute to the Rajput valor and bravery. Still i think that unless the protesters approves the film cannot be released surround gun totting policemen," said Hassani.
 
 
