CHANDIGARH: The district consumer disputes redressal forum directed   Ltd. in Sector 17, Chandigarh to pay Rs 30,000 for failing to repay the treatment claim to the complainant after her husband’s death, as she was the nominee. They were also told to pay Rs 80,000 along with 9% interest from February 28, 2014 till realization.

 The complainant,   Bhalla (68) of Panchkula stated in her complaint that her husband   had purchased an insurance policy from Oriental Insurance Company in 2013. She was the nominee in the programme.
 
 Promilla is a regular client of the company and had obtained successive policies from the insurance firm. She added that her husband suffered some ailment and was admitted in   hospital,   and died due to cardiac arrest on November 29, 2013.
 
 After some time, Promilla filed for insurance claim on December 11, 2013. During investigation, the complainant was asked to deposit some documents regarding the first diagnosis of chronic kidney disease and treatment of the complainant’s husband at Sector 32 hospital, Chandigarh, for the finalization of claim. The claim was however repudiated.
 
 The insurance company contested that the claim of the complainant was closed as the requisite documents were not submitted. Specific details of the hospitals were not given and only sketchy papers, OPD card of November 24, 2013 was submitted which reflected  , RFT, LFT and chest X-ray were advised, and her husband was diagnosed with chronic kidney disease. More documents about the kidney disease were sought but the same were not supplied.
 
 The forum after hearing both sides held that the insurance company did not produce any record, that is the form which was filled up by the complainant and her husband.
 
 Since the complainant had been buying mediclaim policies for herself and her husband in the past too, there is no concrete material on record to suggest that this present policy was taken just to make a claim when her husband was near the termination of his life.
 
 The forum held that the insurer had happily accepted the premium of Rs 6,830 on September 6, 2013 and the date of death of Baldev Kumar Bhalla was November 29, 2013. Thus, there has been deficiency in service on the part of the insurance company, the firm held.
 
 
