Tirunelveli: Apart from the massive cleaning drive that was carried out by more than 20,000 volunteers on river Thamirabarani on Saturday, more than 3,000 student volunteers are busy conducting a survey among the people residing on the banks of the river’s 72 km stretch through this district. The river is the main source of irrigation for 86,000 acres under cultivation in Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts and drinking water source of lakhs of people in Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar districts. “The survey is to understand and put an end to pollution of the river from those localities as people of those localities have an important role in maintaining the river clean in the long-run,” said district collector Sandeep Nanduri, about the survey that will analyse close to 60 residential areas and colonies on the banks of the river. There are two survey forms for each locality, of which the first form has 26 questions, that have to be collected from the residents. It includes the availability of a toilet in the house and public toilets, the condition of public toilets, if they are aware that Thamirabarani river is the source of drinking water for the region, awareness on pollution and the ways in which the people knowingly or unknowingly polluted the river. In terms of pollution, the people are asked if they dump paper, plastic or other items in the river or used it for open defecation, prevalence of industrial waste dumping, if they have taken the pollution issue to the notice of authorities, awareness on water scarcity in Cape Town (South Africa), diseases caused by water pollution and common diseases in their locality. They were also questioned if they have taken any steps to protect the river from pollution, interest in protecting the river and their suggestions to ensure cleanliness of the river. The second questioner has a set of 14 questions that have to be filled up by the surveying volunteers based on their observations such as availability of bathing ghats and their status, public toilets, condition of approach road to the river, need for dustbins, number of points through sewage dump points into the river and suggested remedial measures for the area. Details collected in these area-specific studies would be consolidated and analysed in the coming week to workout solutions such as placing garbage collection bins and proper waste disposal mechanism, construction of toilets and providing other facilities that would prevent wastes being disposed of in the river. Bathing in the beautiful river is irresistible. However, devotees, youth, and tourists abandoning old clothes, wrappers of soap cakes and shampoos sachets were identified as one of the serious issues of concern. The district administration is contemplating on the idea of installing dustbins at vulnerable areas in a bid to streamline disposal of such non-degradable wastes.