COIMBATORE: Display of patriotic fervour ruled the Republic Day celebrations across the district on Friday. Public congregated at   grounds witnessed a parade by the police, fire service, home guards and NCC cadets. Collector T N   accepted the guard of honour and hoisted the tricolour flag.

 What followed the parade was a grand spectacle of cultural events by 900 students from various schools and colleges. While classical dance performance by a group of students enthralled the audience, there was also display of martial arts skills by another set of students.
 
 The occasion saw the collector honouring freedom fighters from the district and distribution of welfare assistance to the tune of Rs 1.78 crore to 453 beneficiaries. As many as 49 police personnel were also awarded for their meritorious service at the function.
 
 At the city corporation, commissioner K   hoisted the national flag and launched a new scheme ‘fight against dengue’ to create awareness about the need for cleanliness on the premises of private establishments, schools colleges, theatres, hospitals, hotels and apartments. Those ensuring eradication of dengue breeding spots on their premises would be given awards.
 
 Vijayakarthikeyan also honoured sanitary workers, corporation school headmasters, tax collectors and other civic body employees for their exemplary work. As many as 34 corporation works, who have served for 25 years, were given certificates of excellence. Headmasters of five corporation schools, which recorded 100% pass last year, were also honoured.
 
 Elsewhere in the city too, Republic Day was celebrated with pomp. At Isha Yoga Centre, its founder   hoisted the tricolour in front of the 112ft Adiyogi statue. “It is time that we reap the benefits of this profound tradition in its full glory. We are a nation of great possibilities. But there is a distance between possibilities and realities,” he said.
 
 A new website was launched at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University to mark the occasion. Launched by vice-chancellor K Ramasamy, the website would benefit the farming community.
 
 
