CHANDIGARH: Punjab local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday confirmed he was “deeply hurt” as he had been sidelined and excluded from the decision-making process for mayoral elections to Amritsar, Patiala and Jalandhar municipal corporations.

 Sidhu and 17 municipal councillors had stayed away from the official event held for the election of the Amritsar mayor on Tuesday. The mercurial minister, however, attended the Cabinet meeting led by chief minister   later on Tuesday.
 
 The Amritsar East MLA issued a four-line statement in Punjabi, claiming that as the local bodies minister he was neither involved in the discussions held to elect the new mayors for the three Punjab cities and nor did the party seek any suggestion from him on the issue. “This treatment meted out to me has hurt me. So much so, even for electing the Amritsar mayor, I was not properly invited for the meeting. That is why I did not participate in it,” his statement said.
 
 Asked about his earlier statement in which he had authorised the chief minister to take a call on the choice of mayors, Sidhu said, “I have never said no to the CM, he is our ultimate boss. But had I been involved, I would have only given some suggestions. I do things at the state level, for instance, I do not interfere in what the local legislators are doing.”
 
 Replying to the question about Amarinder, Sidhu said, “If CM saab sends a letter to me saying ‘do this,’ will I ever say no to him. But does that mean the local bodies minister is not made a party to any process, be it discussions or taking feedback (by the party), for over the past one month.”
 
 Sidhu was cautious and refrained from taking any names in his meticulously-drafted statement. “I am committed to (the vision of)   and   for a lifetime. In this case, I had a reason to be upset and I have shared it with you. It was about the system adopted for the mayoral selection and things could definitely have been done differently,” Sidhu told TOI.
 
 He, however, refused to reveal whether the   high command had tried to reach out to him on the issue. Sidhu also refused to comment on why he stayed away from the Congress campaign in   and   assembly elections.
 
 Commenting on his cabinet colleague Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s claim that he had gone to meet the local bodies minister at his residence on the day of the meeting, Sidhu said, “Bajwa is not the issue. He did not contact me when nearly 18 meetings were held for over a month on the mayoral process. He’s my elder brother, but he came over after I said I will not go uninvited to the meeting.”
 
 Sidhu started his brief interaction with the media a quip, “I’m on the path of truth. When in doubt, I walk straight.”
 
 “I did not want any distortions, so I have come with a written note. It is not about individuals, but about the system adopted,” he said.
 
 The Congress leaders, meanwhile, said the issue seems to be over for now and it was unlikely that it would be taken any further. “The party has gone ahead and made Amritsar mayor of its choice and Sidhu vented his anger. That should be the end of the matter,” said a party leader.
 
 The Shiromani Akali Dal claimed that Sidhu had directly challenged the authority of Congress president Rahul Gandhi by opposing the appointments of mayors.
 
 SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said it was strange that the state minister was not even ready to adhere to the authority of the Congress president. “This is amply proved from the manner in which Navjot boycotted the meeting held to elect the mayor in Amritsar and even forced councillors loyal to him to boycott the meeting,” he said.
 
 Back to business?
 
 Sidhu could be seen sitting next to Amarinder at the meeting of the council of ministers and behaved as if nothing had happened a few hours after he released his statement, according to sources. Earlier on Tuesday, Sidhu chaired a meeting of commissioners and regional deputy directors on implementation of the Swachh Bharat mission.
 
 Now Tript Bajwa is hurt
 
 Sidhu’s decision not to meet his cabinet colleague Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa when the latter turned up at his Amritsar residence to get him to attend the meeting had hurt Bajwa, sources said. “I was only acting as a messenger, reading out the name of the mayor in Amritsar,” said Bajwa.
 
 
