CHENNAI/ MADURI: Actor-turned-politician   on Wednesday employed his mastery over Tamil in right measure to play to the gallery when he launched his new party   (MNM) to officially mark his foray into politics. The 63-year-old’s defiant ‘centre’ position is a new brand of politics that analysts are grappling with. But, his speech was a refreshing change from the usual political rhetoric, sprinkled as it was with one-liners.

 Kamal, who has vowed to lend dignity to political discourse, broke conventions by telling fishermen in Ramanathapuram that he will not accept shawls. “I will not drape you with a shawl. Instead I will be your shawl,” said Kamal, who went on to hug fishermen one by one. His aim was to captivate them with words and physical proximity.
 
 A Sundari from Anna Nagar in Madurai, who was among the thousands present at the venue of Kamal’s party launch, was impressed with Kamal’s oratorical skills. She said, “The actor’s speech did not seem to be a political speech. Rather, he spoke from his heart.” But aware of political realities, she said, “I do not know if it is enough to keep voters form taking money from other parties during election.“
 
 Abdul Kadir had come all the way from Tuticorin to listen to   speak. He said, “His Tamil is very good. He is the only politician in   to speak good Tamil after Kalaignar (M Karunanithi).” Auto rickshaw driver   from Madurai said, “I watched his speech on TV. It was good. I was impressed when he said he will not give money for votes,’’. Thangapandi of   said he had no trouble understanding Kamal’s speech.
 
 The actor, who has been accused of speaking in a language ‘that the common man did not easily understand’, adopted a colloquial style to strike a chord with his audience and draw response and cheers.
 
 In Rameswaram, the actor appeared to be appropriating the legacy of late   founder M G Ramachandran in subtle ways. Crowds cheered and called Kamal ‘enga veetu pillai’ (child of our home) when he said, “I am the light of your homes. It is your responsibility to protect me.” 
 
 The actor and intellectual, known to speak in riddles, earlier told the press, “I will speak in a way you will understand. I am not ‘ulaga nayagan’ (universal hero) anymore. I am ‘nammavar’ (our man).”
 
 
