KOLKATA: About 1,000 files have piled up at the mayor’s desk at the   headquarters as   stayed away from office for the last three days since he last came during the   budget session on March

 14. Some relate to finance, some are work orders relating to essential services, while some are about policy decisions to be taken up in the coming mayor-in-council meeting.
 
  
 Senior KMC officers, however, look at a much deeper crisis. “The mayor has come to office for less than a week since February 28,” a KMC official said, dropping hints that   has already conveyed the message to employees at the mayor’s office that he won’t be coming for the week beginning Monday.
 
 The mayor’s absence has affected the smooth running of the KMC headquarters. Bureaucrats are reaching out to the mayor-in-council members with designated files for the department, precipitating an uncertainty in the civic body ahead of the rural polls.   Congress councillors are also keeping their fingers crossed since they won’t be allowed to use borough integrated funds allocated in the KMC budget if files are not passed immediately. The KMC’s finance department has already pressed the panic button taking note of the sharp decline, suggesting the civic body to hold all daily payments on hold.
 
 Worse, a section of KMC enlisted contractors has chosen this time to go on a “cease work” for the next 15 days because the KMC has not been clearing their dues for the last six months. “It is true that we can’t run our essential services without them. We need to pay their dues. But we are passing through a financial crisis. Mayor’s absence and retirement of controller of municipal finance and accounts have further added to our problem. We can’t sanction funds as files relating to payments have been piling up,” a KMC finance department official said.
 
 Chatterjee’s nonchalance has put the Trinamool in a piquant situation in which Didi is trying to discipline mayor without showing him the door. The mayor, on the other hand, seems to be taking advantage of his fund raising capacity in the party and is making his relation with   non-negotiable if he continues in Trinamool. Other Trinamool seniors are keeping a watch on this battle of nerves to see how Didi tackles his once blue-eyed Kanan (name by which Mamata calls mayor) going defiant.
 
 
