Ahmedabad: In a shocking case of playing with the future of students, 37   of   will not be able to take their board exams as it has emerged that their school was not affiliated to the Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board ( ). The board filed a complaint with local police against the school for cheating the students. 

 This vital piece of information was not communicated to the students, who were waiting for their hall tickets till the last minute. 
 
 Parents and students told their story on Saturday, saying they were alarmed when the school didn’t distribute hall tickets despite them filling the   forms and paying the fees well in time.
 
 “We were told the hall tickets would be issued on Monday. After that we went to the school every day but were told to return the next day. Finally, we complained to the DEO but nothing happened. We then complained to the board and were shocked to learn that they could do nothing, as the school was not affiliated to the board,” said a parent of Nikita Jadav, whose brother is also a class X student. The children of a vegetable vendor, they will be forced to waste a year for no fault of theirs.
 
 GSHSEB chairman A J Shah said that despite having sympathy for students forced to lose a year, there is little the board can do as they were told about the situation at the last minute. “As the school had sanction to run classes only till class VIII, and has no affiliation for classes IX and X, there is no way the students can be allowed to take the exam,” said Shah.
 
 While the board filed a complaint with local police for fraud and cheating, school trustee Harish Desai said that the school was run by Pritesh Patel, who had promised them he would get the affiliation. “We were kept completely in the dark about students being made to fill the forms despite the school not having got affiliation,” Desai said.
 
 In the past, some 40 students of class X from a school in Juhapura were unable to take their board exams for similar reasons and angry parents then set the school building on fire.
 
 Times View 
 
 Students not being able to take the board exams and forced to forgo a year due to fraud by school authorities is a serious offence. While a police complaint has been filed, the education department should not overlook the dereliction of duty by DEO officials, whose job is inspect every school annually. Education officials not being able to detect such a gross anomaly is a serious failure or an indication of corruption. The education department should crack the whip to ensure no student wastes a year next time. 
 
 
