
Making a mockery of the   order -- which ruled in September 2009 that no place of worship can come up on public land -- a temple is being constructed in a civic amenities site in Yelahanka New Town’s Judicial Layout. That’s not all; in 2011, the Karnataka High Court had dismissed the application of the ‘Judicial Layout Residents and Site Holders Association’ (JLRSHA) seeking that the BBMP ( ) be directed to hand over the civic amenity site to them for construction of the temple.
  
  
 Before the high court dismissed the application in 2011, at least two of its orders – first in June 2003 and then in July 2004 – dealt with restraining the transfer of civic amenities sites in Judicial Layout.
 
 The Judicial Layout (rather, the Karnataka State Judicial Department Employment Housing Building Co-Operative Society) is home to several serving and former judges. In fact, the site allotted to former Chief Justice of India HL Dattu is said to be near the upcoming temple.
  
  
 But that’s not the only irony in this tale. The temple is coming up in a site earmarked for a community centre; once complete, the temple will be right in front of it. Yelahanka MLA SR Vishwanath (of the BJP), who laid the foundation stone for the temple, told BM that he was ‘confident’ that construction will be completed soon. “The work has progressed till the Garbhagudi (sanctum sanctorum). This particular site was meant for a temple. 
 
 This is not an approved layout and residents do not have any other temple,” he said.
 
 When asked how a temple could be constructed in a public park, despite SC and HC’s orders to the contrary, the MLA said: “There is a provision for a temple in CA site. Also, they have kept half the portion for park and half for the temple. The people in Judicial Layout are very smart. I feel there has been no violation.”
 The temple is coming up on 14th Main Road; BBMP has fenced off the 29,423 sq ft of the area.
 
 Retired Deputy Registrar of the Karnataka High Court, BV Byra Reddy, who is now the president of JLRSHA told Bangalore Mirror that they have got “clearance from the court” to build the Ganesha temple. When asked about the 2011 HC order rejecting their application, Reddy said that there are over 350 pages of various orders and just “two pages” cannot give the complete picture.
 
 “First of all, the area’s plan itself is not approved. BDA also said that the area has to be approved by the government. When the area itself is not legal, then how come there are CA sites? Also, BBMP engineers have said that they have no objection to construction of the temple,” Reddy said.
 Sathis M, corporator of   ward, also claimed that the court had given its approval to the construction.
 
 Judicial Layout has been mired in controversy right from its inception in 2002. Allegations range from conversion of CA into residential ones, to illegal allotment of over 500 sites. One of the issues that has regularly seen traction is that of allotment of sites to judges who cannot be cannot be considered ‘judicial’ or ‘government employees’ (since they are appointed by the President of India and are constitutional officers).
 
 The layout, spread over 193 acres, had in its original plan provided for 11 parks and five CA sites. In June 2016, Karnataka HC had directed the BBMP, the BDA and the government to scrutinize the applications, survey the layout, finalise the CA sites and give formal approval to the layout.
 
