Aren’t we all under the impression that losing weight is no less than a herculean task? Indeed, it requires a lot of determination and dedication but the fact is that by just adopting a healthy lifestyle, we can make ourselves fit and healthy.

  You need to work out every day and above all, require to eat healthy. Indulging in unhealthy diets not only makes you obese but also makes you prone to diseases. You need to live healthy each day and that’s what contributes to your overall wellness. Losing weight is just not about one hour fitness regime or following some diet tips but also finding out ways that can help you in shedding extra kilos. So, for all you fitness enthusiasts, we have mentioned a few easy ways that will help you in burning 500 calories every day!
 
  
 
 
  Well, your hectic schedule might make it challenging, but realizing its health benefits could definitely make you mop your house. This practice also depends on your weight and also on how much time you take to clean your house and what all activities you indulge in while cleaning your home. For example, if a person weighing 45 kilos and spends 15 minutes mopping, he/she will be able to burn 77 calories. Washing dishes for 15 minutes would help him burn 38 calories.
 
  
  If you don’t find this job interesting enough, then just turn on your favourite music track and make it exciting.
 
  
 
 
  Just don’t sit and talk when on phone. This is the best practice that would help you  . While talking on the phone, walk. You may not know but you will burn more calories while standing than just sitting. If you are not able to walk, then just stand and talk on the phone.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  This is a known fact that love-making helps you burn calories. Indulging in foreplay makes you lose calories. For example, a person who weighs 70 kilos would burn 25 calories in a session of 15 minutes and 45 minutes of foreplay would help you lose 216 calories.
 
  For instance, when a woman is on top of his partner and the session lasts for 10 minutes, she will lose 300 calories and for men the same session will make him lose 130 calories. However, in standing positions, Both the partners will be able to lose up to 600 calories!
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  Dancing is the perfect work out for your overall body. You can dance on your favourite tracks or can also indulge in different dance forms. For example, Rumba is one dance form that is good for stretching. It helps in increasing your flexibility and builds muscle strength.
 
  Mostly, all types of dance forms focus on your core muscles, especially the back. When you do a fast form of dance, like jive, it will work well for your arms as well as legs.
 
  If a a person who weighs 70 kilos indulges in fast ballroom for approximately 1.5 hours, he/ she will be able to burn 500 calories!
 
  
 
 
  The most effective workout is skipping rope. Skipping rope for 51 minutes will help you burn approximately 500 calories. Continuous skipping rope for 51 minutes can be tiring. So, break it into two segments and you can skip rope early morning and during evening time.
 
  
 
 
  According to health experts, if you bowl for 30 minutes, you can lose 105-285 calories. This also depends on your weight:
 
  - For 72 kilos, you can burn 219 calories in one hour
 
  - For people who weigh 91 kilos, you can burn 273 calories 60 minutes
 
  - For people who weigh 109 kilos, can burn 327 calories 
 
 
  
 
 
  Recommended by many health experts, instead of taking escalators, climb stairs. You may not know that climbing stairs for 30 minutes would help you burn 500 calories. Not only losing calories, you will also get toned glutes.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  This may surprise you but standing and playing guitar for precisely 2 hours and 10 minutes will help you lose 500 calories! So, if you love playing guitar, here’s another reason to grab it.
 
  
 
 
  Punching bag for 70 minutes would also help you burn 500 calories. This de-stress practice can effectively help you lose extra calories.
 
  
 
 
  Walking at speed of 4 MPH for 90 minutes will help you burn 500 calories. At work too, you should walk after lunch but it should not be a brisk walk. This will help you digest food and you will not gain extra weight. Brisk walking for 10 minutes will help you lose 81 calories.
 
  
 
 
  Considered as one of the most effective work out regimes, running will also help you burn calories. Run early in the morning or during evening and do not keep yourself dehydrated while running.
 
  
 
 
  Another way to burn calories is by playing with kids. If you play for 90 minutes with tiny tots, you will sweat and could burn as many as 500 calories!
 
  
 
 
  This workout regime works best during summer. If you swim for 65 minutes, you will burn 500 calories! This also depends on how fast you swim and on the strokes too. Another factor that plays a great role in swimming is how much you weigh. Depending on your weight, you can lose from 450 to even 950 calories per hour.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  This is another way to shed calories. No matter what your age is or what your fitness level is, cycling can be suitable for everyone. It not only burns calories, but also improves health.
 
  
 
 
  Aerobics can also help you lose extra calories. This workout works on your overall body and get it toned. You may do it at home or can do it outside in an open space.
 
