GURGAON: Health minister Anil Vij has ordered a probe into the death of a seven-year-old boy from dengue while being treated at   in Gurgaon as well as allegations of overcharging against the hospital. The health ministry had set up a similar panel to investigate   hospital, where another seven-year-old child Adya Singh was treated for dengue and died last September. 

 The committee on Medanta has five members — Gurgaon’s chief medical officer  , principal medical officer Dr Pradeep Sharma, two paediatricians from   and a representative of the   ( ).
 
 Saurya Pratap, 7, was admitted to Medanta on October 30. He was suffering from severe dengue with multi-organ dysfunction syndrome. After undergoing treatment at the hospital for 22 days, he was shifted to   in Delhi on November 20, since there was no improvement in his condition and the bill was running high. Saurya was critical at the time of admission to RML, and died on November 22, two days later.
 
 Medanta authorities said they will cooperate in the probe. “Saurya was given the best treatment for dengue shock syndrome and other complications. His condition improved while he was with us. At each stage, the attendants were made aware of the patient’s condition and the hospital charges. There was no complaint while he was with us. We’ll fully cooperate with any investigation as there was no medical negligence from our side,” said Dr A K Dubey, medical superintendent, Medanta.
 
 The child’s father Gopendra Singh Parmar, an LIC agent based in Rajasthan’s Dhaulpur district, alleged he had to cough up Rs 15.88 lakh as his son’s treatment cost at Medanta. On December 22, Parmar registered a complaint with police, which he also submitted to the health department on Friday(January 12), accusing the private Gurgaon hospital of overcharging for the treatment. 
 
 The complaints were filed against the hospital management, chairman of the department of paediatrics and other supporting members of their team.
 
 However, after receiving no response in the matter from police, they filed a fresh complaint on December 30 with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union health minister J P Nadda, Union minister for women and child development  , chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Vij, state law minister Captain Abhimanyu, registrars of Delhi and Haryana medical councils and the Medical Council of India (MCI). “A probe has been ordered by the health minister after we approached him seeking justice in the matter,” said Parmar.
 
 
