PATNA/ARA: The family members of martyred Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) constable Mohammad Mojahid Khan on Wednesday refused a cheque for Rs 5 lakh offered by the state government as ex gratia payment saying he didn’t die after consuming liquor but laid down his life for the country. The state government pays ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the families of those who die in any accident or disaster. 

 Bhojpur DM   said the aggrieved family in Piro village demanded Rs11 lakh which the state government pays as ex gratia to the family of a jawan on martyrdom. Kumar said the message of Mojahid’s elder brother has been conveyed to the state government. “His family members said they will wait for the government’s decision,” the DM said.
 
 Youngest among the five brothers and two sisters, Mojahid succumbed to the bullet injuries he had received in a gunbattle with   (LeT) terrorists at the 49th CRPF battalion camp at Karan Nagar near Srinagar on Monday. Born on August 10, 1990, he had joined CRPF on August 24, 2011.
 
 CRPF sources said Mojahid was part of the quick action team. He was scheduled to visit his village in March to attend the marriage of a relative. His family was also looking for a suitable bride for him.
 
 Mojahid’s body was brought to Patna airport from Delhi on Tuesday evening and taken to Piro where his burial was performed with full police honours on Wednesday. Thousands of people from the nearby villages also joined his last journey. Mojahid’s family also demanded stern action against Pakistan.
 
 Chief minister   on Tuesday had condoled the martyrdom of Mojahid and announced his funeral with full police honours. But Nitish invited criticism from RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari for neither himself attending nor sending any of his ministers to the martyr’s funeral. 
 
 The last rites of Army jawan   Munna was performed at his native Brahma village in Khagaria district on Tuesday. He had succumbed to his injuries received in a cross-border shelling by Pakistan in Poonch sector on February 4.
 
 
