AGARTALA: Once a gym instructor and now frontrunner to be chief minister of a state   has won for the first time, Biplab Kumar Deb is the story of the   election.

 If the party’s parliamentary board approves, Deb (48) will be the fourth BJP chief minister in the northeast after   ( ),   (Arunachal Pradesh) and Biren Singh ( ). He is currently president of BJP’s Tripura unit.
 
 “I would describe it as people’s verdict for change,” the soft-spoken Deb told TOI on Saturday, thanking people for their overwhelming response to BJP’s ‘chalo paltai’ (let’s bring change) slogan. “What clicked for us is our focus on issues such as implementation of the 7th Central Pay Commission recommendations (which the Left failed to do) and creation of job opportunities.”
 
 Born and raised at Udaipur in south Tripura, Deb graduated from Tripura University in 1999 after which he took up full-time training with RSS in New Delhi. He also worked as a gym instructor in Delhi for some time. When BJP observer for Tripura,  , was looking for a new face for his party in the small north-eastern state, he happened to meet Deb in Delhi and told him to work for his people in Tripura.
 
 “I am ready to take the CM’s responsibility if the party leadership wants,” said Deb, who returned to Tripura in 2016 and took charge of the party. “It will be easy to work with the Centre that has the same party in power. We will fulfil all the promises we have made in our manifesto. We will order a CBI probe into the killing of two journalists, Santanu Bhowmik and Sudip Dutta Bhowmik, last year,” he added.
 
 While campaigning, Deb harped on unemployment as well as the Pay Commission disparity, and promised to create jobs. He brought in key BJP ministers from across India to campaign for the party in Tripura. Known as a compassionate leader, he won many when he got down off the dais during a rally and walked up to an old woman, who he addressed as ‘ma’ (mother).
 
 Deb attributed the historic win to team work. “Our leaders Amit Shah, Ram Madhav, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Sunil Deodhar are instrumental in demolishing the Left Front.” His wife Niti, deputy manager with State Bank of India’s Parliament House branch in Delhi, was his support system. “It is because of my wife that I have been able to work for the state. She manages everything for me and takes care of our two children when I am away with party work,” Deb said.
 
 “I am so happy for the people of Tripura. I am not a political person but I was very impressed with the chalo paltai slogan,” Niti told TOI.
 
