GHAZIABAD: The district   has paid Rs 1 lakh to a resident of Baleni in Baghpat as compensation for the local cops’ failure to provide security to the victim from local goons, who had been trying to usurp her property in Loni’s  . The money was paid on the directions of National Human Rights Commission.

 Accusing the   of going soft on the accused and not filing an   after she was molested and fired at, the complainant, Akbari, a 46-year-old daily wage labourer, had sought intervention of the human rights body. According to the complaint, four members of a land mafia had grabbed 80-square-metre of land in Loni’s Sarita Vihar belonging to her in November 2013. Akbari had lodged an FIR against four persons – Arshad, Zarif, Yamin and Nazar – under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 447 (criminal trespass) and 448 (house trespass) of IPC for trying to occupy her land on November 30, 2013. The accused were arrested in this case but were soon granted bail. After their release on bail, they attacked Akbari and her husband Liyaqat twice. On December 2, the accused beat up Liyaqat when he started construction on the plot. Arshad had allegedly told Liyaqat that they had paid bribe to cops to not add Section 420 (cheating) in the FIR and also prepared forged property documents to usurp their property. On the same day, Liyaqat made a complaint to the then district magistrate in this regard.
 
 On January 25, 2014, all the four accused along with three more accomplices barged into the complainant’s house when she was alone and allegedly molested her. Akbari raised an alarm and locals started gathering at the spot causing the accused to flee the spot, but not before firing at her. The woman, fortunately, escaped unhurt. This time around when she tried to complain, according to her, the police refused to take any action against the accused.
 
 “We were quite helpless and so we approached the NHRC for relief. Through the rights body, my complained reached senior police officials and they instructed the   police to take action. The accused were once again arrested and sent to jail,” Liyaqat said.
 
 The NHRC had found dereliction of duty by   cops and recommended compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the victim. 
 
 The state government on May 4 directed the UP police to pay the compensation. Apart from the compensation, the state government has also asked the police to take departmental action against the erring cops. Liyaqat confirmed that he received the cheque on May 11. 
 
 SSP Vaibhav Krishna said the compensation has been given and further inquiry is being done.
 
 
