JOHANNESBURG: On the morning of January 5, the first day of the Test match in Cape Town,   woke up with a severe headache, bordering on the feverish. In a couple of hours, he was expected to buckle-up for the game scheduled 10.30 am local time. Things just did not fall in place.

 
 Left to choose between   and Umesh Yadav, the team management settled for the former. And the start that the 27-year-old Bhuvi gave Team India – 4-87 in the first innings and overall a six-wicket haul – cemented his place in the eleven going forward. Ishant’s loss turned out to be his gain.
 
 
 
 There, however, was no doubts whatsoever in the mind of the team management over playing Jasprit Bumrah, who received his Test cap on the morning of the game. India’s bowling coach Bharat Arun, who has tracked Bumrah’s career for close to seven years now, was convinced.
 
 Those who’ve seen Bumrah go about from close quarters say “his clarity of mind is everything about him”. The only thing that Bumrah does off the field, they say, is “focus on how he bowled and how he should have bowled” on a particular day or occasion. “The best thing about him is his ability to distance himself from any kind of distraction,” they add.
 
 
 
 
 
 On the morning of the fourth day of the first Test, when   resumed batting with overnight batsmen Kagiso Rabada (nightwatchman) and Hashim Amla at the crease, the mood was upbeat inside the hosts’ dressing room. With a lead of 142 and with eight wickets in hand, South Africa were beginning to look extremely dangerous. The entire extent of Bumrah’s effort cannot be ascertained through his second innings figures that read 3-39 from 11.2 overs. It’s the sheer audacity of the spell – one that shook the South African batting line-up, sent Faf du Plessis and Quinton de Kock packing, and made the hosts sit back and take note – that tells the real story.
 
 On that morning, as the Indian team prepared to leave the hotel to make their way to the ground, the coach, captain and a very select support staff called for a meeting of the bowlers. Arun, who comes with a coaching experience surpassing 21 years and one whose methods had even left the late Frank Tyson impressed years ago, spoke to the bowlers about the need to stick to a line and a plan.
 
 There were strengths to be put at use, weaknesses to be explored, and the bowlers – with an average age of 26 if off-spinner R Ashwin has to be set aside – needed to gain a good understanding of the wicket that had just witnessed unrelenting showers a day before.
 
 Making use of the moisture settling in the tracks and bowling the right lengths would be of acute importance.
 
 
