Though   refused to comment on  's meeting with Choudhary, RJD MLA   confirmed the meet. Choudhary's sister Sudha   has been an MLA from Chhaterpur constituency in Palamu and he enjoys popular support in   part of the bordering areas of  . Choudhary is learnt to be disgruntled with the BJP-JD (U) relations and speculations are going on that he may forge fresh ties with the RJD. Bhola Yadav said that things are open but the picture would be clearer once the elections approach. 

 Lalu's eldest son Tej Pratap also arrived at Ranchi for the first since conviction of his father. Former minister in Bihar government, he spoke to his father at length while attending the court. Though he too refused to speak to media, RJD leaders said that the duo discussed on family as well and political issues. "Tej Pratap took his father's message for the RJD workers in Bihar and he assured the national president of his party to rest assured about the political happenings back home," Yadav said.
 
 Meanwhile Lalu appeared before the CBI court in two Fodder scam cases concerning fraudulent withdrawal of money from the Doranda and the Dumka treasuries.
 
 CBI produced one witness from its side in the case (RC 47A/96) related to Doranda treasury before the special CBI judge Pradeep Kumar. Dr Ramashankar Prasad who was posted as Block husbandry officer deposed as the prosecution witness.
 
 Lalu also appeared before special CBI judge Shiv Pal Singh in the case RC38 A /96. The argument in the case is going in alphabetical order of the accused persons. 
 
 Tej Pratap sat through the entire hearing in the Doranda case. Both the father and the son were seen conversing with each other during the lunch break in the court. 
 
 One of the convicts in the Chaibsa case Dr BN Sharma who was district animal husbandry officer during the scam surrendered before the court on Monday. Sharma could not come to the court as he was sick. The court had issued a convict warrant against him. Sharma was forwarded to jail after his surrender. 
 
 It may be stated that former chief minister Jagannath Mishra who has also been convicted in the case, was absent on day of sentencing. The court has issued a convict warrant against him as well. 
 
 
