BENGALURU: India’s first interactive museum based in the city will soon boast of a prized artefact — noted singer MS Subbulakshmi’s tambura. Along with the instrument, Indian Musical Experience will receive a silk sari and copy of a letter Mahatma Gandhi wrote to the musician. 

 Presentation of the memorabilia will be preceded by a classical music concert by S Aishwarya and S Saundarya, great-grand daughters of Subbulakshmi.
 
 The artefacts will be displayed in a specially designed case at the Gallery of Stars, one of the eight thematic exhibit galleries at the museum. The gallery will feature photographs of 100 legends of Indian music from various genres, along with their recordings. It will also house artefacts belonging to the five musicians who received the Bharat Ratna. 
 
 Located in JP Nagar, the museum has already received memorabilia from the families of shehnai maestro   (shehnai and white cap) and   vocalist Bhimsen Joshi (silver paan box and red shawl). Artefacts from the families of Pandit Ravi Shankar and   are expected shortly.
 
 IME comprises three parts – walkthrough multimedia exhibit galleries, a sound garden with 10 musical sculptures and a learning centre with classrooms and a seminar hall. While the museum opened last July, work on the exhibits is expected to take two months, after which it will open to the public. 
 
 Manasi Prasad, project director, IME, said, “We are honoured to receive these precious artefacts from the family of MS Subbulakshmi, who is perhaps the best-known Carnatic musician. Her singing was always pitch perfect, and in tune with the tambura, which is why we were keen to display it to inspire young musicians. MS was always immaculately attired in the most elegant silk saris — in fact she was a fashion trendsetter of her time, and the red and yellow sari with a checked design is a beautiful example of her dressing style. The letter from Gandhiji to MS lauds her for her contribution to charitable causes, and is unique because it is signed by the Mahatma in Tamil.”
 
 
