In a few months,   and  ,  , will turn 75 years old. But there isn’t an iota of sluggishness of a septuagenarian in him. Still he is as active as he was when he started off as a conservationist in 70s. When the   news came out last Thursday night, he was readying for a trip to Maharashtra the next day to attend a conference of snake rescuers. Back now in the city, an elated Whitaker says, “It’s really a great honour to be recognised by the government of India. But all I hope is that this will open many doors to help us get conservation work done effectively.”
Though born in the US, he came to India when he was a seven-year-old boy and later, became a naturalised Indian. Ask him about a few moments in India that he still holds close to his heart, he replies, “The first time I saw a wild king cobra in Agumbe, Karnataka. That sight is still etched in my mind. Then there are two more incidents — seeing a mother mugger crocodile carrying her young ones to the water and slowly releasing them, and another one where I saw a dozen gharial hatchlings crawl up on the head and back of their daddy crocodile.”
 Over the last few years, Whitaker has been busy travelling across the country as part of anti-venom research. Talking about it, he says, “I am not a researcher. But I initiate the research by collecting venom samples needed for it. The research has been going at a slow pace, but I am optimistic that we can improve the efficacy of Indian anti-venom in the near future.” According to the team that works with him, what they aim at is to enable researchers to find out venom variations in snakes that belong to the same species, but from different parts of the country.
 Meanwhile, Whitaker, who has also been active in rainforest conservation warns that our wild habitats are under extreme threat. “Right now, the key is to get more young biologists into the field of herpetology and practise applied ecology. It’s okay to do esoteric research on genetics and other high-tech areas of wildlife biology. But ultimately, it should lead to conservation of species and their habitats which are under such great pressure in India. The forests of the Western Ghats and all our major rivers are under extreme threat. So, let’s do something about it instead of just talking about it,” states Whitaker.
 
