KOLKATA: A junior women’s state cricket player battling pneumonia could be rushed from   District Hospital to  , Kolkata a in a mere nine minutes and 50 seconds, courtesy a green corridor faciliated by jointly by Howrah City Police and Kolkata Police, from 3pm on Wednesday afternoon.

 
  
  
 
 The green corridor comprised a 9.7km route, covering 11 traffic crossings. The cricketer — Poushali Pal — is now in CMRI’s ICCU.
 
 When Poushali’s condition deteriorated on Wednesday necessitating her shift to   Hospital, doctors said she could not be taken the conventional way, fearing she may collapse if the ambulance carrying her is stuck in traffic. They insisted that a Green corridor be created for her. Poushali was then taken in a trauma care ambulance of the Howrah City Police, with a ventilator, two doctors, a pulmonologist, a critical care specialist and a nurse on board. Four police seargeants on motorcycles and a pilot van led the convoy.
 
 The convoy started from Rishi Bankim Road. From there, it took Kartik Dutta Road, Foreshore Road, Jagat Bannerjee Ghat Road, GT Road (south), the toll plaza-bound flank of the second Hooghly bridge and then climbed the bridge. Descending from the bridge at Race Course, it passed National Library in Alipore before reaching CMRI Hospital.
 
 Pal, an all-rounder in the Bengal junior women’s cricket team, was admitted to the Howrah hospital on Monday with pneumonia that had reached a critical stage. Doctors said she had to be immediately put on life support.
 
 Poushali’s family in Howrah’s Shibpur said she was suffering from respiratory distress. Doctors noticed her body was turning bluish due to to the lack of oxygen. The disease was affecting her lungs and brain.
 
 Her father Sushanta Pal said, “We informed state minister and Poushali’s coach Laxmi Ratan Shukla, who arranged for Poushali’s admission to Howrah district hospital.” The hospital superintendent, Narayan Chatterjee, said, “As her condition deteriorated, the family decided to shift her to CMRI Hospital.” Sukhla said, “Poushali is a promising player from LRS Bangla Cricket Academy.”
 
 Howrah City Police DC (traffic) JA   said, “We contacted Kolkata Police and it took half-an-hour to convert the route into a green corridor.”
 
