BENGALURU: The muchawaited electric bus service of   ( ) is finally set to become a reality. The corporation has started identifying routes for the battery-operated buses and it is likely that airport and ring roads will be picked first.

 BMTC officials said by next month, they will give the work order to a service provider, which will operate nearly 40 battery-run buses in the first phase by August. The remaining 110 electric buses will be inducted in a phased manner.
 
 Nearly 25 companies participated in a pre-bid meeting held recently by BMTC and many of them have expressed interest in operating electric buses, said BMTC managing director  . “We hope that firms from the pre-bid meeting also participate in the tender. They have also sought six months to operate electric buses after the work order is issued,” he added.
 
 Ponnuraj said they are looking at airport and ring road routes to operate electric buses since a bus requires to cover at least 200km a day. “We are identifying other potential long-distance routes where these buses can be operated.”
 
 BMTC is planning to induct AC electric buses with a seating of capacity of 31 (9metre) and 42 (11-12 metre). BMTC has decided to lease electric buses instead of purchasing them as the capital cost involved is Rs 2-3 crore per bus. Last day to submit bids to operate 150 electric buses is February 19.
 
 The selected operator will have to provide buses with qualified drivers and operate on the routes provided by BMTC for 10 years. However, the corporation will deploy a conductor in each bus for fare collection. The selected operators will also have to register the buses in Bengaluru and  , charging infrastructure and operational cost such as tyres, spares, lubricants and wages of drivers and maintenance staff.
 
 At present, 6,400 diesel buses of the BMTC ferry passengers around the city. Once the electric bus plan materializes, BMTC will be the first state-run bus corporation in the country to operate a large fleet of electric buses. In 2016, BMTC board had given in-principle approval to induct 150 electric buses as part of an initiative to reduce vehicular emission, noise pollution and fuel consumption. The buses will be inducted with financial assistance from the Centre under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles (FAME) Scheme of   (NEMMP) 2020.
 
 
