The New Year began on a joyous note for   who became an aunt again recently when her brother   was blessed with a baby boy on January 1. And now she is looking forward to the release of her   film,  , in which she’ll be sharing the screen with Oscar winner  .
Speaking about her role in the film, Lakshmi says, “I play a village girl Sita, the sister of the hero’s character, Rajit, played by Utkarsh Ambudkar. It’s a full-length character. The strange thing is that I’m playing an Indian girl in an Indian village but for Western audiences. So, I had to get the subtleties absolutely right. From the way I walk, tie my hair or the way I wear my clothes... everything had to have the stamp of a village belle. In fact for one fleeting scene in which 
 So, how exactly did she land the role? “It was a last-minute thing as the actress originally selected for the role could not come on board. The makers are friends of mine and they asked me to audition in Mumbai. It is not an easy task to audition for a Hollywood scheme of things because you get the role only after six to seven producers approve of you,” says Lakshmi.
 Brie Larson plays Linda, a scientist employed with a corporate, who is sent to India to sell a variety of genetically modified rice. Scott Bakula, Donald Sutherland and Tyne Daly are the other prominent names in the film which was shot in Kerala. “It was a blast! Donald, Brie and the rest of cast and crew were out of their element as it was a new experience for them to shoot in a remote Indian village. We were all put up at a resort where we stayed for 25 days and bonded really well,” she says recalling the experience of shooting for the film. 
 When the film’s international trailer was released recently, it was met with a huge backlash. “Unfortunately, the trailer gave the wrong impression. The movie is not about an American coming here to solve India’s problems. 
 It is the story of two individuals from different cultures who unite to fight against corporate greed, and find love,” says Lakshmi, adding, “I think it’s unfair that people have made up their minds entirely based on the trailer. I know the producers and director and they have been coming to India for the past twelve years and love the country more than some of our own people. Basmati Blues is definitely not an anti-Indian film. On the contrary, it’s a pro-Indian film that teaches farmers to fight exploitation by Western corporates and vested interests.”
 I break a coconut, I actually had to practise numerous times to get the nuance right. We had a special team to take care of all these aspects.”
 
