CHENNAI: It was not just dengue cases that went up in   during the 2017 epidemic. There was an increase in the incidence of at least three other mosquito-borne diseases, shows data provided by the state health department to the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme.

 There was an 18% increase in cases of malaria, incidence of which had been on the decline since 2010, although the number of people tested for the disease came down by nearly 6 lakh.   cases rose to 113 from 86 cases the previous year and cases of   and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome ( ) also increased until December 24, the report said.
 
  
  
 
 The increase in cases of these diseases, public health experts said, was due to the harsh weather and severe drought in several parts of the state which offered a fertile breeding ground for several of these species, including the malaria-causing anopheles. Entomologists say there was a steep increase in the mosquito population throughout 2017.
 
 
 
 
 State chief entomologist   said, “The monsoon rain and waterlogging increased the likelihood of eggs surviving, especially for dengue-causing Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. “While studies show many of them are able to survive even the strongest of repellents, we now see a huge change in their behaviour too.”
 
 “The state was once a hotbed for malaria, but the incidence came down because of both vector control measures and natural decline in the population of the anopheles species. We did not expect the numbers to go up, but during this stage it is vital to intensify measures to keep cases under control and increase awareness among people,” said director of public health Dr K Kolandaswamy.
 
 For instance, after the 2015 floods, sanitary inspectors reported a huge increase in the population of aedes albopictus mosquito, a forest breed, in urban areas. In several rural areas, health workers found anopheles and aedes breeding together in wells. “We don’t normally see them breed together. These are probably acts of survival,” he said.
 
 Doctors’ bodies and health activists, however, claim the state has been drastically under-reporting cases and deaths. In the last five years, there were no reports of deaths due to malaria and no deaths due to JE or AES in 2017, due to “better surveillance and treatment.” The state recorded 63 dengue deaths. But   state wing president and former director of public health Dr S Elango, said a study by his association, showed 12,500 cases of dengue in 10 districts since March against the government figures of 11,500 across the state since January. “We recorded more than 80 dengue deaths, but the state has till now reported just 63. The remaining, they say is haemorrhagic shock. The only disease known to cause such shock in our state is dengue,” he said.
 
 Senior doctors and office bearers of the   also said under-reporting was worsening the situation. “Vector control is the job of municipal authorities. The state has to network with local bodies to bring down the mosquito population,” said   former state president Dr T N Ravishankar.
 
