PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar   on Friday blamed “musclemen” associated with RJD for the recent attacks on huts of Mahadalit families at Malikpur village under   block in   district. Raghopur, incidentally, is the constituency of leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad  .

 “Several houses of dalits were set on fire by the musclemen associated with RJD. I was informed that the attackers were the ones who had worked for Tejashwi in the 2015 assembly elections in the state. An FIR has been lodged in connection with the attacks and the   has launched an investigation,” Modi told TOI.
 
 Police said the incident took place on May 28 over a land dispute. “The Yadav and Paswan communities are at loggerheads over a piece of land at Malikpur village. A title suit has also been filed in this regard. We had received a complaint last week from the Yadavs that the Paswans were constructing a boundary wall on the disputed land. Accordingly, we visited the spot on Monday to take stock of the situation. On our way back to the police station, we were informed that around 15 huts and some shops belonging to the Paswans had caught fire in the village. Paswans alleged that the huts and shops were actually set ablaze by the Yadavs. However, the matter is under investigation,” SHO of Raghopur police station Rupesh Kumar Sinha said.
 
 The affected families have alleged that they are being continuously harassed by people from Yadav community owing allegiance to Tejashwi.
 
 “We are minorities here and surrounded by Yadavs. They always discriminate us on caste lines. Even the block development officer and circle officer here are Yadavs. Women members in our families are scared of going outside,” one of the aggrieved villagers said. He added even Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan has not come to their rescue.
 
 Anita Devi, another villager, said the incident took place in presence of the police. “They dragged us out of our homes holding our saris and other clothes even as the policemen played the role of mute spectators,” she alleged.
 
 Meanwhile, the incident has taken a political turn with the ruling JD(U) taking a potshot at Tejashwi over it. Former education minister  , who recently deserted   along with three other MLCs and joined JD (U), visited Malikpur on Thursday and met the aggrieved Mahadalit families. Choudhary, incidentally, is a Mahadalit leader.
 
 “People from a particular party and a dominant community are doing atrocities on a minority community. This is quite disturbing as it is happening in the constituency of leader of opposition, whose party takes pride in calling itself pro-dalit,” Choudhary said.
 
 The RJD has, on the other hand, termed the incident as a failure of the administration. “It is the responsibility of the government to probe the matter and arrest the culprits. Murders are happening every day in the state. Isn’t it administrative failure? Nonetheless, if the ruling NDA is such well-wisher of dalits, they should come up with an ordinance to prevent dilution of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act,” chief state spokesperson of RJD Shakti Singh Yadav said.
 
 
