INDORE: Just before the start of their practice session at the Holkar Stadium, one could spot a white board near the   dressing room. Coach   had written out some goals for his boys ahead of their crucial tie against   on Saturday.

 
 
 
 In those goals, there must have been something about consistent middle-order failure. Hodge knows his team is currently relying too much on   and  . Rahul has in fact bettered his best IPL score twice in the previous two matches and carried his bat through. However, he has taken his team home only once.
 
 
 
 
 The duo of Rahul and Gayle has scored almost 900 runs between them. They need more support, especially from the middle order. Except for  , who has been assigned the role of finisher, others have struggled. The likes of Mayank Agrawal, Yuvraj Singh, Aaron Finch and Manoj Tiwary need to raise the bar.
 
 Even though these are not desperate situations for the Punjab outfit — they are placed No.3 in the points table — things could change very quickly if they lose another game. They have already lost three of their last four matches and another loss could put them in trouble.
 
 Skipper Ravichandran Ashwin has led the side well. He has rotated his bowlers well. Purple cap holder Andrew Tye has been exceptional with his intelligent variations. Ankit Rajpoot has been sharp. Stoinis is also contributing well, while the spinners Mujeeb Ur Rahman, Axar Patel and Ashwin are doing a fantastic job. All they need is bit more cushion from their batsmen.
 
 Their opponents, Kolkata Knight Riders, too have blown hot and cold. They desperately need to win on Saturday to stay in the knockout hunt. The twin loss to Mumbai Indians must be hurting them badly. The last one has dented their net run rate as they continued to look clueless against Mumbai Indians.
 
 KKR traditionally bank on spin but Ishan Kishan tore their spinners apart in the last match. The likes of Rahul and Gayle will also pose a serious challenge to the spin trio of Sunil Narine, Kuldeep Yadav and Piyush Chawla. The short boundaries here will also test their skills.
 
 A positive for KKR is that Shubman Gill and   are fit. The duo missed out against Mumbai due to injury. After two poor outings, KKR also need their batsmen to fire. The opening combination of Chris Lynn and Narine isn’t working for them but their assistant coach Simon Katich feels otherwise. 
 
 KKR also need more from their middle order. They are leaving too much for the likes of Dinesh Karthik and Andre Russell. The toss might also be crucial as no team has been able to defend at Holkar.
 
