DHARAMSALA: The player auction of the forthcoming   has been hit by a controversy. A day after the closed-door event, seamer  , who had represented Mumbai in one Ranji game back in 2010 but is a regular in Mumbai’s local cricket, took to social media to hit out at the organisers for not mentioning his full name in the auction, which, he feels, affected his chances of being sold since the franchisees were confused about his identity. 

 
 “The first edition of Mumbai T20 is touted to be the biggest platform for the players from the state. I made my place into the final list of the players undergoing the hammer. But sadly our auctioneer does not know how to pronounce full names of the players. I speak for myself over here and here during the auctions I was addressed as “A SHAIKH” and not Aquib Shaikh (God knows why).. but everyone in the room wondered about my identity,” the 27-year-old wrote on his Facebook page, before going on further.
 
 “This obviously confused the team owners and my name was withheld.. is this how auctions are conducted..we all must have watched the IPL auctions as well where a player is addressed by his full name which didn’t happen in my case and wouldn’t refrain from saying this could b one of the prime reasons for not making it into any team.. As a player it’s quite disappointing to have gone through this. I definitely demand an explanation from the governing council of the MPL.”
 
 Shaikh then concluded his post by lamenting that he didn’t expect anything else but censure from the   ( ) after his social media outburst.
 
 “However I know this post too will go to deaf ears and at the end I will once again be singled out for the same. But, it’s a fine cause I feel if the MCA asks us to perform to make it big, we too need someone who can at least take full names during the auctions because nobody on earth can take away our identities from us,” before putting out a picture, which shows his name as A Shaikh in the auction list.
 
 A member of the organizing team, however, rubbished his claims. “Aquib Shaikh, with his name spelt in full, was in the long list of 1600 players that was submitted to the organisers by the MCA. This long list had approximately ten other players who had their names starting with A and having the surname as Shaikh, but in all the cases, the names were spelt in full. This long list also had one player by the name A Shaikh (not spelt in full). This list was circulated to the franchises to pick out their wishlist of players for the auction pool,” he said, before clarifying the issue.
 
 “The wish-list of about 300 players received from the franchises had A Shaikh, but did not have Aquib Shaikh, which indicates that Aquib was not shortlisted by the franchises and hence was not in the auction pool to begin with,” he revealed.
 
 “When ‘A Shaikh’ came up for bid during the auction process as part of the ‘Developmental Players’ category, a counter check was done on the exact ‘first name’ beginning with ‘A’- which then was verified to be ‘Atif’ by the franchise that had earlier expressed interest for the player. The player’s name was then introduced for bidding as ‘Atif Shaikh.’ The player was sold through the bidding process as ‘Atif Shaikh’ to the franchise that won the bid, and the same has also been re-verified by the team that bought him as the player that they wanted,” he informed.
 
