JAIPUR:   summoned the details of cases pending against MLAs and MPs in the state with CB-CID and asked it to present the report on January 29.

 The single bench of Justice   gave the directions on a petition by Suresh Chand Sharma alleging that complaints of corruption against politicians are being referred to the CB-CID and the agency is being used as a dumping ground for such cases.
 
  A K Jain, counsel for the petitioner said the   in Jaipur in October 2014 had filed an FIR against former chief minister  , former industries minister Dr  , then JDC and present chief secretary   and   owner Dr Vimal Soni on allegation that Dr Soni, in connivance with the other accused, grabbed land worth Rs 31 crore for just Rs 6.11 crore. The   police had filed an FIR against all the four on court direction. 
 
 
 
 
 But the police had referred the case to CB-CID citing a circular of 1986 that cases against MLAs and MPs be only investigated by the CB-CID. He said there was no progress in the investigation so far.
 
 Jain argued that there is no such provision in the CrPC or IPC that that stipulate that investigation of certain people could be carried out by only by CB-CID. He said generally the CB-CID only assists in investigation or cases of crime which have state or inter state ramifications. The petitioner demanded that the case be given back to the Gandhi Nagar police and scrap the DGP order of 1986.
 
 According to the complaint, JDA had reserved 2.3 acres of land for a trauma hospital at Sikar Road. The JDA had also constructed a building area of 20,996 sq ft at a cost of nearly Rs 1.47 crore in 1997. After this construction, it was decided the hospital would be handed over to the Sawai Man Singh Hospital. On March 31, 1997 it was handed over to the health department. The PWD had also incurred an expenditure of Rs 5.91 crore on the building’s completion.
 
 The petitioner alleged that Dr Soni, in connivance with then minister Chandrabhan, who was holding the industry and power portfolio, hatched a conspiracy to take over the land and the building. Accordingly, on March 8, 2001, it was decided at a board of directors’ meeting presided over by the then CM Ashok Gehlot that since the state government was lacking money to run the hospital; it should be handed over to the private sector.
 
 
