KOLKATA: The parents of the child who died at AMRI Mukundapur knocked the doors of the chief minister on Thursday morning. Jayanta and wife Shampa Dey met Mamata Banerjee at her Harish Chaterjee Road house and were given a patient hearing. The CM assured them of all help, the couple said.

 
 “The chief minister told us that she knew about the incident. She told us not to worry as she will look into the matter,” said Oyetri’s father. The two-and-a-half-year-old had died on Wednesday morning and her parents had alleged medical negligence on part of the hospital.
 
 On Thursday, accompanied by Shampa’s two brothers, the couple reached the CM’s address around 10am. In addition to medical negligence, they also spoke about the behaviour of the hospital unit head Jayanti Chaterjee. “The CM heard us out for almost 20 minutes and assured us of all possible help, After the meeting she even sent a staff member to accompany us to the office of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission ( ),” said Oyetri’s uncle  .
 
  
  
 
 The family met WBCERC chairperson Justice (retired) Asim Kumar Roy and then went to West Bengal Medical Council’s office in   to register their complaint.
 
 A histopathological test will be conducted at   to confirm if Oyetri had any underlying heart condition that may have led to her death. Since her parents had alleged that the child died after being administered an antibiotic injection, another set of tests will be conducted to find out if there was an anaphylactic shock. Police have sent samples to SSKM.
 
 Shampa had alleged the nurse on duty administered Augmetin and   injections, after which the child suffered convulsions and died soon after. Doctors said Augmentin is one of the safest first-line antibiotics for chest and throat infections while Neomol is a paracetamol.
 
 Police have asked the hospital to submit all documents. It has been told to draw up a list of doctors, nurses and attendants who were on duty on Tuesday night. “We are conducting a probe. We will submit all documents,” said   group CEO, AMRI group of hospitals.
 
