NAGPUR: While vaccination in animals holds the key to prevention of zoonotic diseases (transfer of infection from animal to human), there are hardly any vaccinators posts in the entire animal husbandry in the veterinary clinics in both urban or rural systems.

 This has resulted in the livestock not being vaccinated for all major diseases causing danger to not just animals which form the basis of supplementary income for farmers but also pose great threat to human health.
 
 Dr Ajay  , member   speaking to TOI on the eve of World Veterinary Day said that there are many diseases like bovine tuberculosis, foot to mouth disease etc which can be transferred from animals to man. But they can also be prevented by way of vaccination in animals.
 
 “However, there is no dedicated staff for conducting vaccinations in animals. There are veterinary doctors but there is no staff down the line to actually vaccinate the animals at such large scale,” he said.
 
 Prof  , the vice chancellor of the   (Mafsu) also contests that there is a big need for enough vaccinators at all levels. But this was not the responsibility of the state animal husbandry department and not the university. However the state officials did not comment on the issue. Unofficial sources however claimed that there were no posts of vaccinators, especially in cities.
 
 Dr Poharkar stressed that since animals form 18% of the total global population, it is important to work for animal welfare which naturally will result in good animal health. “If the animals are healthy they will add to the agriculture economy. They also bring substantial income to the farmer and hence meet the requirement of sustainable development to improve livelihood through food security,” he said.
 
 Dr Poharkar says eradication of animal diseases is the mandate of state as well as central government. But the system at both levels lacked the required infrastructure and manpower. “There is a strong need to restructure the entire animal husbandry department at state as well as national level. I will try to bring as much changes as possible in the state by being a veterinary council member,” he said.
 
 He demanded that all veterinary systems should have qualified veterinarians, infrastructure for animal health, disease control programme, vaccination system in place and special teams for various zoonotic diseases. But unfortunately even the veterinarians are not aware of all this. “There is need for restructuring the policy at national level as in the interest of the farmers livestock should be healthy. In fact all animal food products too should be monitored for better human health,” he said.
 
 
