CHANDIGARH: Six years on and the   is yet to reimburse private schools for teaching students of economically weaker section (EWS) under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. All that the department has done so far is fix the reimbursement rates.

 The last time the department reimbursed schools for teaching EWS children was for the session 2011-12. The payment made was partial with only Rs 750 per child. The remaining payment is still due.
 
 UT education secretary   said, “I will ask officers to expedite the process. There are some procedural issues causing the delay,” adding that he would ask the concerned officials about why the   were not made in so many years.
 
 In December last year, the education department had informed that it had fixed the reimbursement rates for the year 2013-14 and 2014-15 for the schools teaching children under the RTE Act. They had decided to pay up Rs 1,196 per month per student for 2013-14 and Rs 1,370 per child per month for 2014-15.
 
 The department had said that it would ask schools to apply for reimbursement for these years and will repay on case to case basis as every school had different number of seats reserved under the RTE Act. Also, the money will be reimbursed only for the reserved seats and not for the seats under land allotment scheme that puts an obligation on schools to reserve certain percentage of seats for receiving land under concessional rates from the UT.
 
 Under Clause 2 of Section 12 of the RTE Act it is state that where such a school is already under the obligation to provide free education to a specified number of children on the account of it having received land, building, equipment or other facilities, either free of cost or at concessional rates, the school shall not be entitled to reimbursement to the extent of such obligation.
 
 However, the percentage differs in original land allotment letters. The department had earlier stated that all schools will have to reserve 15% seats under the land allotment scheme. But, there is no clarity on the same so far. The schools had written to the education department about it as well.
 
 The   (ISA) has been continuously raising the issue of reimbursement. ISA president HS Mamik, “Instead of spending money here and there the department should pay the schools as it is also under obligation to do so.
 
 
