VADODARA: A   is under the scanner of the district administration after a   and a torn Gujarati subject   was found in the school. Officials of the district administration had to break open the lock of the room where the material was found.

 A team of officials of the Dahod district collectorate had rushed to the M & P High School after district collector   J received a call regarding irregularities and suspicious activities at the school. When the officials reached the room at the school regarding which information had been received, it was found to be locked.
 
 “I received a call around 10.15am alleging that malpractices were taking place at the school. A mamlatdar was rushed to the school to verify things,” said Ranjeethkumar.
 
 The executive magistrate who was sent to the school asked the school officials to open the lock. But the officials said that the keys were with the management. When a senior member of the management was called, he said that he was out of station. “We ordered that the keys should be sent to the school immediately,” said Ranjeethkumar.
 
 Despite the warning, there was a long delay and eventually when some keys were sent through someone it transpired that they did not include the one for the lock on the room. Eventually, the district administration officials at the school called witnesses and the lock was broken.
 
 The officials found a photocopying machine, a class X Gujarati subject text book, a table, chair, a rose and a torn paper inside the room. When the pieces of the torn paper were put together, it came to light that it was the class X Gujarati subject question paper.
 
 Officials said that photocopying machines were prohibited in and around examination centres, but in this case one was found in the school itself. Also, the fact that a copied question paper was found inside a locked room raised suspicions. The administration will be registering an offence regarding the incident.
 
 Exams in Dahod, Mahisagar and Panchmahal districts have been under a scanner since last year when a question paper was leaked. It was widely circulated over Whatsapp and after registering an offence a series of arrests including those of persons involved in the exam process were made.
 
 
