NOIDA: Altogether 129  , who are responsible for ferrying policemen in 43   vans, have gone on an indefinite strike since Monday alleging they have not been paid their salaries for the past eight months because of a dispute over shift hours between the Noida Authority and the police department.

 Police patrolling was partially affected across Noida on Monday as the drivers refused to ferry the cops. The Dial 100 vans, however, patrolled the city.
 
 The drivers said the dispute over their pay started after July last year when the police department issued fresh tenders to source drivers from private agencies and changed the working hours from 12 hours to eight hours a day.
 
 Sources said the working hours were brought down after drivers cited labour laws and alleged that they were being overburdened. According to the earlier schedule, each of the 43 PCR vans was assigned three drivers, but after the working hours were snipped, the number of drivers was brought down to two for each vehicle.
 
 The dispute over the salaries started as the Authority was willing to pay only two drivers per vehicle, against the earlier three. The private contractor who supplied the drivers for the PCR vans also backed the protesters, saying the new policy had rendered 43 drivers jobless. Each driver is paid around Rs 9,200 a month. 
 
 Manmohan Singh, one of the protesters who had gathered outside Sector 29 police chowki, said the erstwhile 12-hour shifts were not in accordance with the labour laws. “The shift hours were not in accordance with the Labour Act and had to be done away with. The dispute over the salaries started since the new tender was issued and the shift timings were changed,” he said.
 
 Jaideep Singh, the contractor who bagged the tender last year, questioned the Authority’s decision to pay only 86 drivers — two for each vehicle — as against 129 earlier.
 
 “We were told by senior police officers that the Noida Authority would pay only for 86 men. How could we accept that? We have been providing the services of 129 drivers. Many of them have been working for years,” he said.
 
 The contractor claimed he had written several letters to the Noida SSP, but to no avail. “Every time the issue is raised, the only assurance we get is that our demand to pay all the drivers is being looked into. Our men are left in lurch,” Singh said.
 
 Most of those who drive the PCR vans hail from other districts such as Etah, Aligarh, Mainpuri and so on and have taken rooms on rent in Noida. “We are not being able to feed our kids. We couldn’t even celebrate Diwali last year,” said a driver from Aligarh.
 
 The drivers marched to the SP (city)’s office in Sector 6 and protested until the officer gave them a patient hearing on Monday.
 
 Officers in Noida police said they had raised the matter with the Authority CEO. SSP Ajay Pal Sharma said his force was in constant talks with the Authority and he hoped the matter would be resolved “in a few days”.
 
 Rajesh Singh, officer-on-special duty, said the Authority was not directly involved as the drivers were not its “employees”.
 
 The agitating drivers said on Monday they would wait for the outcome of a meeting scheduled between the contractor and senior police officers on Tuesday and would not withdraw their strike until their demands were met.
 
 In 2012, the then BSP government had given white Innovas to Noida police to be used for patrolling the streets and had asked the Authority to fund the salaries of drivers.
 
 Since then, no tender had been issued to source drivers for the PCR vans. The tender was issued for the first time last year.
 
 
