MYSURU: The Mysuru City Corporation’s finance and taxation standing committee chairperson KP Ashiwini presented a surplus budget on Tuesday and announced several projects, including two swimming pools in Chamaraja-Narashimaraja constituency at Rs 1 crore and a   near Maharani’s College to help students avoid the busy road. Also, around 100   are to be developed at a cost of Rs 20 crore. 

 Ashwini, who presented the budget of Rs 712.5 crore for the financial year 2018-19 at Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar Hall, said MCC was targeting revenue of Rs 127 crore through property tax. “As property tax is the major revenue source for MCC, tax defaulters and property owners who have filed wrong declaration under Self-Assessment Scheme (SAS) will be issued notice. The property tax collection drive will be continued,” she said.
 
 Ashwini announced that MCC was also expecting a revenue of Rs 50 crore from fee collected for drinking water supply, UGD maintenance, town planning, trade licence and MCC building rent. A large chunk of the amount – Rs 42 crore – is expected from 14th Finance Commission grants and others.
 
 “Illegal water connections will be legalised by installing meters and tax will be collected. Similarly, MCC officials will collect various taxes from revenue layouts coming under corporation,” Ashwini said.
 
 The budget shows a surplus of just over Rs 7 crore. The opening balance is nearly Rs 147.5 crore and the budget outlines expected revenue of Rs 565 crore against an expenditure of Rs 705.5 crore.
 
 Among the projects that should gladden civic staff is the construction of a sports club for MCC officials and members at a cost of Rs 2 crore. A Mahila Sadana under JNNURM, at a cost of Rs 1 crore, is also being planned at Ittigegudu. Skill development programmes for women will be held at this centre.
 
 Bathrooms and e-toilets exclusively for pourakarmikas, Rs 10 crore from CM’s special fund to police department for effective traffic management system and Rs 3 crore for the development of play grounds is also stipulated. Around Rs 15 lakh has been earmarked to celebrate 155 years of MCC. 
 
 Ashwini said in 2017-18, the revenue target was set at Rs 687 crore but till December-end, only Rs 348 crore was collected. 
 
 Mayor B Bhagyavathi, deputy mayor M Indira and MCC commissioner G Jagadeesh were present.
 
 
