LUDHIANA: The municipal corporation ( ) here is going to send “warning text messages”, or SMSes, to 1 lakh city residents who have not paid  , said an official of the civic body on Tuesday.

 MC superintendent   said they wanted to create pressure on property tax defaulters by sending them the messages. He added that they were concentrating more on recovering dues of the past four years this time around and that was they were sending the texts. “At the start of the financial year, people are slow in paying their past dues. We hope this would change that,”   said.
 
 Verma said they would be seeking the help of a private bank to send the messages. According to him, 1.26 lakh people had paid the tax since the 2013-2014 financial year. Of these, the civic body has the mobile phone numbers of 1 lakh residents, he added.
 
 In the messages, the MC is going warn the residents of their properties being sealed if they did not pay the tax. Verma did not give the date from when the civic body would start issuing the warning messages.
 
 He added that they had already started serving notices and a survey was underway to verify property tax payments made by residents in the past few years.
 
 These text messages will also have a link to the MC website for those residents who want to pay their tax online. On clicking the link, people will get a chance to open the website and make payment through electronic methods. Earlier, the officials used to send request messages to tax payers, and these too in the months of August and September. This was around the last days of the 10% rebate.
 
 The MC said the residents could avail the 10 percent rebate till September 30 in case they pay their property tax for this financial year. An official said the survey to check property tax dues could take some time as they limited staff.
 
 
 
 
 The text messages will also have a warning and a link to the MC website for those residents who want to pay their tax online
 
 On clicking the link, people will be to reach a webpage from where they will able to make the payment through electronic methods
 
 Earlier, the officials used to send such messages to taxpayers in the months of August and September. This was right at the end of the period when the 10% rebate was in place
 
 
