There was a lot of buzz when real-life couple Sameera and Anwar was roped in to play one of the lead pairs in Vijay TV’s  . The television soap also had actors Soundarya and Karthik as the other pair. The latest development is that Sameera and Anwar have walked out the serial owing to differences with the team. When we contacted Sameera regarding this, she said that they opted out of the show in December end itself.
 
 “We informed the makers about our decision in December. The last episode, featuring us, was telecast in January. So, the news has reached audiences only now,” she begins. Ask her what made them take this decision, and she says, “There were several complaints of groupism. Some of our co-artistes were talking behind our backs that we were influencing the writer, channel and producer to give us more screen space. Though we didn’t have any issues with the team otherwise, this small talk has really tested our patience. We have never demanded we get more scenes either from the makers or the channel. Incidentally, our portions were doing well. But the other pair in the serial didn’t get enough screen space. And as if in jest, they too asked us if all the rumours doing the rounds were true. Even though we didn’t influence anyone, we were taking the blame for it. We even asked the writer to give them more scenes. But they said it’s their call when and how the story would flow and asked us not to interfere. It was fair enough. But the gossip didn’t stop.”
 
 Anwar adds, “Both Sameera and I have a solid 10-year experience in the television industry. So, we know what kind of talks happen on the set. We don’t have to do this to influence anyone or stop anyone’s growth. Another reason is that the planning was poor. They used to call us in the mornings and eventually start the shoot only by evenings. We had already informed them that we will not shoot post 9pm. But they kept requesting us to work for another hour or so post 9pm. We had raised the issue multiple times, but nothing changed.” Sameera says, “We were thinking of opting out for a long time and told the team about this by the end of December."
 
 And right now, both say that they have no regrets. Sameera says, “It is better to stay away from such negativity than work in such an atmosphere. I am currently busy with Rekka Katti Parakuthu Manasu in Zee Tamil. Both Anwar and I will take up another project together again soon.”
 
 Anwar says, “I am busy with my production,   in  , which will begin telecast this month. I am sure we will have people who spot our talent and call us for work. The passion to work is alive and we are certain we will bounce back.”
 
