All these years, it’s been tough to be a skateboarder in Goa. Despite all the ample space and sunshine in the state, the absence of footpaths or the right kind of venue meant that most skating enthusiasts had to scrape by with what they could get.
 However, now, a bunch of skateboarders have created a quirky little haven for   enthusiasts right in the heart of Goa – across  . While it’s the first of its kind in Goa, even across the country, not many skate parks can boast of a seaview!
  
  ‘This is one of the best- looking skating spots in India’
  
  Situated right across the beach, the ramp at the park gives one an illusion of jumping right into the sea. However, just how risky/likely is that? “Not at all. It looks scary, but it’s not. The skateboarders performing the tricks are seasoned and well-trained. The newbies don’t attempt it in the initial months. If you know how to balance yourself, it’s not dangerous at all,” says  , an avid skateboarder. He adds, “The whole idea of starting this was to make an impact in the state. Goa has a couple of skateparks, but they are in remote areas and everyone isn’t allowed to skate there. This one is open to the public and the property owner may charge `10 for maintenance.”
    from  , who is an avid skateboarder, says, “Other cities like Bangalore have a great skateboarding scene, but they don’t have great spots like these. This is one of the best looking spots in India. There’s one at  , near the beach, but you can see the beach in the distance. However, this is right across the beach!”
   , a skateboard athlete from Mumbai, says, “I love skateboarding and do it every day. I go to different places, and connect with the community there. We don’t have skateparks in Mumbai. There, we skate in public gardens. Goans are fortunate that way – they don’t just have accessible skateparks, but one right across the beach. What else do you need? It’s like a vacation for me... skating here,” he says.
   , another athlete from Mumbai who has been skateboarding since the last five years, and has even represented India in a tournament in  , says, “Skateboarding makes me travel a lot. I have participated at events and competitions across the country and got a chance to skate at so many parks. However, nothing can beat the joy of skateboarding by the beach. In Mumbai, skate on the streets! So, I love it here in Goa.”
  
  ‘Goa has a lot of potential’
  
    says, “We have a community of around 20-25 skateboarders in Goa and we make it a point to meet during the weekend at least. We tie a slackline on   beach and work on our balance, in addition to skateboarding. Sometimes, we even hula hoop.”
  Anant says, “Goa (or India) isn’t very skateboard friendly. We don’t have proper sidewalks or smooth footpaths. The cities have footpaths, but they are largely unkempt. There are gutters where there shouldn’t be gutters. In countries where skateboarding is very popular, the sidewalks are made skateboard-friendly. Goa has great a lot of potential for skateboarding.”
   , a 20-year-old from  , who has been living in Goa since the last seven years says, “I started skateboarding 10 years ago. My dad used to skate when he was my age. When I was 10, he got me my first board and one for himself, and we started stakeboarding together. In Brazil, the skating community is huge. Here, since it is is smaller, everyone is connected, everyone knows each other. We help each other, let each other progress and I like that. I see that the community is growing a lot. We needed a skate park in  , and I am glad we have one now. It’s good for everyone.”
  
  There are no age barriers in skateboarding
  
  Vaibhav, who has also been conducting camps for skateboarding enthusiasts since 2014, says, “I conduct regular classes during the weekends, in addition to the vacation camps. There’s no age limit for skateboarding. The youngest kid I have trained is a KG1 student. Skateboarding isn’t so difficult. I teach any kid in five days. Kids learn faster than adults though.”
  “I’ve been skating for about three years now. I used to have a baby skateboard when I was school. While I was in college, I happened to find it during summer break and then I met other skateboarders and three or four of us started skating. However, since last year, we began pushing really hard and the scene picked up. We had a couple of workshops to create awareness. Some of these people have been skating for less than a year and they are having a great time,” says  , an avid stakeboarder.
  Anveer, who also takes classes, says, “We jam regularly. Then, we fly kites or hula hoop when we are bored. It’s like a circus. We hope everyone gets curious and more people come and join in. We have people of all ages coming by. There’s no age barrier. There are kids as young as five or six, and older people too. Everyone starts from scratch. It’s not like, the older you are, the better you are. The age gap is eliminated. In fact, children progress faster and transition to the next stage way earlier than the older ones. It’s fun to see 
