KOLKATA: ‘ Scattered’ — a short film directed by a 13th batch student of the Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute — is lending voice to the problems of Kashmiri pundits. The filmmaker, who himself is a Kashmiri pundit, has made the film in Kashmiri language. Going beyond highlighting the beauty of the Valley and the present scenario, this film focuses on the “Kashmiri pundits’ disconnect with their roots”.

 This twelve-and-a-halfminute film was part of the package of 16 films that were screened at the annual event of the students’ festival. Apart from ‘Scattered’, there is another film on Kashmir called ‘Gilani’.  , the director of  , said the institute is in favour of “independent film-making”. “As a result, we encourage original thought. We try to develop a habit that gives priority to originality with a free mind which, of course, will be influenced by current reality. That includes what’s happening in Kashmir,”   said.
 
 In 1990, director Nikhilesh   had to leave his home in downtown Srinagar’s   when he was less than a year old. “My father tells me that we had to leave our house because of threats. We were indirectly told that we must leave the place for our own good. A family friend had told my father that he might not harm him but will not be able to protect him if trouble erupted,” Mattoo recalls.
 
 The director describes his film as an “emotional journey of a Kashmiri pundit” who feels “strange” on his return to the roots. In the film, pro-Pakistan rants during India-Pakistan matches rent the air. “In 2012, we visited our house in Habba Kadal. But nobody wanted to enter. I could sense an unease. Memories haunted my parents about how they had to live in fear before finally leaving Kashmir. The lights had to be switched off after sundown. For fear of being gunned down or pelted by stones, everyone avoided going near the window. The fear still lingers,” Mattoo said.
 
 A character in the film also echoes this line and says that while those who stayed back became prisoners in their own land, the rest became tourists. “Most films try to bring out what the current situation is. The issue of the Kashmiri pundit is being side-lined. I wanted to highlight that. For my generation of people, the biggest disconnect is with our language and culture. Even the films made on Kashmir are not made in Kashmiri but in Hindi, Urdu or English,” he pointed out.
 
 ‘Scattered’ is part of the Kashmiri Panorama of the second Wular Lake International Short Film Festival that will be held in the Baramulla district. If his schedule permits, Mattoo will also be travelling to his roots for the screening.
 
