CHENNAI: Police stations in the state will soon make space for special cells that cater exclusively to counselling   and children victims of violence, from the time they make a complaint till they receive justice.

  police department, supported by the National Commission for Women, will set up special cells manned by two women counsellors, at select police stations in four cities - Chennai, Madurai, Salem and Tirunelveli - and in Villupuram district.
 
 A senior official in the social welfare department said the idea is to provide immediate counselling to victims of domestic abuse, rape and sexual assault who approach police stations. She said although the state operates all women's police stations and anti-dowry harassment cells for women, police personnel are often caught on the back foot when counselling is required for those who have faced violence.
 
 Prasanna Gettu of Chennai-based Crime Prevention and Victim Care, an organisation that works with victims of domestic abuse, said women in distress usually reach out for external help when all else has failed. "And each survivor has her own narrative and coping mechanism. General counselling in such instances will not help," said Prasanna, commending the move to start these special cells within the police set-up. She said constant counselling is important at every stage of a woman's healing process. "And it helps to know they are not alone," she added.
 
 According to the   data, crimes against women have more than doubled over the past 10 years. In 2016 alone, the state witnessed at least 854 cases of assault on women and 319 cases of rape. Around 8% of these cases were reported from Chennai.
 
 Experts who deal with survivors say these women tend to feel helpless, and experience fear, along with a sense of low self-esteem. "They are mentally, emotionally, and physically overwhelmed, as well as exhausted. In this state they are often confused about the options available to them and are unable to make choices," said senior advocate  .
 
 The special cells initiative, which is being carried out on a pilot basis in the state, will be initially funded by the commission, and counsellors will be trained by experts from Tata Institute of Social Sciences. They will offer immediate services in the form of police assistance in registering complaints, legal aid, placement in institutions, and referral to other specialised social service agencies.
 
 The cells were initially started in Mumbai as a pilot project by the   for Women along with the Maharashtra government and TISS in 2002. At present, there are close to 100 such cells across the state.
 
 
