BENGALURU: The Lalbagh rock on Sunday turned an epicentre for a jatre of sorts, with the botanical garden hosting  , the harvest festival with all its attendant highlights like kite festival, bullock cart ride, fire-jumping bulls and raashi puja among other things. 

 Suggi Huggi, a first-of-its-kind festival hosted by the Kannada and culture department jointly with the agriculture department to mark Sankranti, gave the city-dwellers a peek into the countryside of Karnataka. Over 25,000 people witnessed the activities. 
 
 The festival drew from the cultural heritage of all eight regions of Karnataka — the Hyderabad-Karnatak, Malnad, Are Malnad, Mysuru region, central Karnataka, Mumbai Karnataka, Bayalu Seeme and Karavali. The various ways in which Sankranti is celebrated in these regions were unravelled at the event.
 
 Pragya R J, an undergraduate student and resident of Koramangala, said she was excited to witness farmers perform raashi puja, thanksgiving for harvest. “The kite-flying event was also interesting and organizers gave free kites for early comers. The Sankranti-savari, bullock cart ride with experienced farmers, was another highlight,” she said. 
 
 Folk songs and dances were also performed throughout the day. Free sampling of Sankranti delicacies—huggi and pongal—kept visitors satiated.   Chatterjee, a system analyst, was exhilarated after watching fire-jumping by bulls, the mainstay of Sankranti celebration.
 
 Vishal, a student and resident of Mangaluru, hoped that such festivals will bring people back to following time-tested tradition. 
 
 Soumya, a resident of  , said: “No one in my family was aware that the festival is celebrated in different ways in these regions. We usually share some ‘yellu bella’ with our neighbours, go to a temple, eat sweets and are done with the festival.”
 
 Kichchu Haayisuvudu, as the event where cattle jump over the fire is called, is basically to ensure that they are rid of unwanted insects on their body. “The cattle is then bathed and fed, praying for a good yield,”  , joint director of the  , said.
 
 Free food and kites were distributed to children from different orphanages in and around the city.
 
 ‘Celebration of heritage’
 
 Agriculture minister  , who also took a bullock-cart ride, said: “Bengaluru residents are unaware of our past, roots and agriculture. The Suggi Huggi Habba is the best antidote. It will give Bengalureans an opportunity to acquaint with village culture, become aware and celebrate our rich heritage.” 
 
 
 
 
