PANAJI: Buoyed by the success of its service during the statewide taxi strike, the   ( ) has now decided to add three more buses to the Dabolim airport—Calangute route via  .

 Following the three-day taxi strike that paralysed tourist transport mobility in the state, the KTCL had stepped in to provide drops to passengers at the state’s airport and railway stations.
 
 “We will be operating three more buses from January 26. These will be 37-seater air-conditioned buses with a low floor to allow easy accessibility. The fare will be the same that is currently charged: Rs 150 from   and Rs 100 from Panaji,” KTCL general manager  , told TOI.
 
 There is already one bus on this route that runs once or twice a day depending on the number of passengers seeking the service. The bus plies from Calangute at 11am, making a pit stop at Panaji at 11.30am. After reaching the airport at around 12.15pm, it leaves from there at 2pm for Calangute via Panaji.
 
 
  
 
 Despite its availability, the initiative had been receiving poor response, reasons for which, KTCL officials said, were attributed to a lack of proper publicity of this economical service. However, in the aftermath of the taxi strike wherein this service came as a saviour to tourists, the corporation has been a recipient of positive response from tourists as well as locals.
 
 The state-run bus service is also contemplating to add one bus each to the railways route for the convenience of train commuters.
 
 “We have connected with the PRO of the railways in this regard. One bus at each railway station will be deployed with a frequency in operations,” Ghate added.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the KTCL continuously operated its buses for over 12 hours a day over the course of the strike to ensure tourists had transport to and from the airport and train stations. It began services at 7am and operated buses to the airport till 2am from January 19 to 21, to ensure visitors were not inconvenienced.
 
 In order to tackle the strike, over 70 buses per day were deployed from various locations in the state to ferry passengers to the airport and railway stations, and vice-versa. This brought in a revenue of over Rs 15 lakh to the corporation (see infographic).
 
 While a bus service was mooted from the   railway station to the Vasco bus stand, the proposal was later discarded, and people were asked to take the KTCL shuttle service instead. 
 
 “The distance from the Vasco railway station to the port town’s bus stand is barely a kilometre, which is why we didn’t engage this bus. Instead, the 300-odd tourists who required this service were adjusted in the existing shuttle service, the cost of which is Rs 40,” said a KTCL staffer from the Vasco depot.
 
 
