NEW DELHI: The government on Thursday promised all possible help to ailing state-run banks, which are showing little signs of improvement. 

 "Over the next few days, we will ensure that the central government gives every possible support to further strengthen the resolve of these banks to come out of   (PCA) framework as quickly as possible," said  , who is filling in as finance minister till Arun Jaitley recuperates from a surgery. 
 
 Goyal, who spent time with financial services secretary Rajiv Kumar on Wednesday evening, met 11 banks that have been placed under "prompt corrective action" by Reserve Bank of India with two of them - Dena Bank and Allahabad Bank - facing lending curbs that were imposed over the last few days. 
 
 While the government has repeatedly pumped in money to provide equity to state-run banks, the public sector players have shown little or no signs of improvement as RBI has forced them to set aside more funds every quarter to cover for possible losses due to non-performing assets. 
 
 To add to woes the slow economic growth has not aided the corporate sector, and several large groups are weighed down by mounds of debt. Some well-known names, such as the Essar Group, Jaypee and Videocon, are facing insolvency proceedings.
 
 Goyal sought to put the blame for the current state of affairs on the UPA government, which was voted out four years ago. 
 
 The minister said the meeting was "very useful" to understand what has transpired over the last 12-13 years in the banking system. "...the 11 banks were represented at the highest level. Every one of the bankers spoke of solutions going beyond history... They are going to work through the day and meet me again late in the evening to prepare the action agenda on a case-by-case basis," he said. 
 
 Under the PCA, banks face restrictions on distributing dividends and remitting profits. 
 
 The owner may be asked to infuse capital into the lender. Besides, the lenders are stopped from expanding their branch networks and need to maintain higher provisions. 
 
 Management compensation and directors'fees are also capped.
 
 "We will ensure very orderly growth of the industry and highest levels of probity and accountability that is expected of public sector banks," Goyal said before meeting the bank heads. TNN 
 
 
