JALANDHAR: It is not Vijay Sampla’s removal as the state   president but the timing which has surprised many in the party as the most prominent Dalit face of the party has been removed from the top post when already there is major upsurge of ‘Dalit identity’ sentiment across different scheduled caste communities. The BJP-led Union government is being put in the dock by the Dalit groups and politicians on the issue of dilution of provisions of Prevention of SC/ ST Act and.

 Replacing Sampla was being discussed in the top BJP circles for the last couple of weeks and a few names were also discussed. However, the decision came at a time when different communities of Dalits, who otherwise remain politically fragmented, have united on the issue. The ‘Dalit identity’ has clearly over shadowed their individual community identities.
 
 “Groundswell of Dalit sentiment was already palpable and opponents of BJP have already been trying to project as if the Union government is responsible for the   order. Sampla’s removal at this time when emotions are running high among Dalits has given more fuel to its opponents to exploit the sentiment against the party,” said a senior party leader on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Well-placed sources in the party claimed that not just Punjab but shuffling of party presidents in at least three other states — Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh — was also on cards but it was then decided by top leadership of the party that this shifting would take place after Karnatka assembly polls. “However, now Punjab has been isolated for this shuffling,” said another BJP leader.
 
 Notably when Sampla was elevated as junior Union minister in 2014, the move astonished some as he was a first time MP. BJP had clearly played up his identity to woo Dalits, who traditionally voted for the Congress, BSP and also SAD in Punjab. The impression and efforts were further strengthened when he was appointed state BJP president.
 
 Even after the defeat in the 2017 state assembly polls, Sampla had offered to resign from the post of state president but he was asked by BJP president Amit Shah to continue. At that time the move was seen as continuation of BJP’s focus on the Dalit voters. 
 
 Dalits constitute 31.9% of population of Punjab and Sampla comes from Ravidassia/Adi-dharmi community which is major Dalit community, along with Valmiki/Mazhabis. These two communities alone constitute around 25% of state population. In fact Adi-dharmis are considered politically and socially more organized and influential. 
 
 Sources in BJP said that as the state leadership has gone back to an upper caste Hindu —   is an Arora/Kashatriya — the party is back to reinforce its core votebank in Punjab among Hindus. “It now seems that party is concerned more about keeping upper caste vote behind it,” said a senior leader. 
 
 
