Ludhiana: Ludhiana Police busted a gang of robbers with the arrest of five persons on Tuesday. The police recovered .32 bore revolver, Rs 5 lakh in cash, 110g gold, 100g silver, three LCD screens, 2 laptops and 8 mobile phones from their possession.

 Police said the gang was active for the past four years and suspected to have executed more than 40 thefts and loots.
 
 The accused –– Raju and Rohit Kumar of Roop nagar on Dugri-Dhandra road; Manoj Kumar of Satjot Nagar; Inderjeet Singh of Gobind Nagar; and Anil Sharma of Janakpuri –– are aged between 25 and 28 years and are school dropouts. They started snatching, loots and thefts to attain a good lifestyle.
 
 Raju is the kingpin of the gang. Following a tip-off, the police arrested the accused from a vacant plot of Lalton area when they were hatching a loot conspiracy.
 
 The Sadar police have registered a case against them under Sections 399 (Making preparation to commit dacoity), 402 (Assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of the IPC and 25 and 27 of the Arms Act.
 
 ASI Ashwani Kumar, in-charge, Lalton police post, said the accused have been involved in several thefts and loots. The gang was active for the past four years and used to target locked houses in posh areas. They would roam around in such area in day times to identify locked houses.
 
 Later the gang would trespass into the houses in the night by breaking the locks with screwdriver and rods and decamp with car, jewellery and valuable electronic goods and gadgets.
 
 The ASI said the revolver recovered from the accused was stolen from a house in Basant Avenue area. The gang started robbing people by threatening them with weapon.
 
 The official said that the gang has targeted more houses on Pakhowal Road, Ferozepur road and Hambran area.
 
 He said, “Some of the accused are drug addicts while other wanted good lifestyle. The accused are not much qualified and wanted expensive gadgets, clothes. They used money on their lifestyle and buying different cars.”
 
 The official added the police are hoping to solve many burglaries and loots during questioning of the accused.
 
 
