Dharwad: Activist Anna Hazare said he will organise a massive rally at Delhi’s Ramlila Maidan on March 23 to press the central government to implement the recommendations of the Dr Swaminathan Commission’s report on agriculture.

 He was speaking after inaugurating the Foundation Day function at the University of Agricultural Sciences, here on Tuesday. He said the other demands include payment of monthly pension to farmers and extension of all the concessions and incentives offered to industrialists, to farmers also.
 
 He regretted that the government had neglected the agriculture sector, despite knowing that there is a serious agrarian crisis, and farmers are in dire straits. “In a bid to make quick money and to avoid losses, farmers are resorting to inorganic farming and are using chemical fertilizers and pesticides. This has made our food poisonous. Dr Swaminathan has suggested measures to overcome the crisis. I have written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to implement the recommendations of the Dr Swaminathan Commission,” Anna said.
 
 He appealed to the people to use natural resources judiciously, and desist from exploiting them. Hailing the achievements of the UAS ,Dharwad, he said he has not come to preach to the students, but to learn from seeing their achievements. Hazare said he was delighted to see the UAS felicitating not only top officials, but also lower-rung employees like clerks and drivers.
 
 Anna said farm graduates must work towards strengthening villages by providing the necessary inputs for sustainable agriculture. Anna said he was influenced by the teachings of Swami Vivekanand. Hazare asked the students not to remain unmarried like him, and advised them to have a small family and work for the welfare of the bigger family, that is India.
 
 He visited a farm after this. He then went to the radio station and laboratory and addressed farmers over the farm radio.
 
 UAS vice-chancellor D P Biradar presided over the function. Dean R S Giraddi welcomed the gathering. Chaya Badiger introduced Hazare. K V Ashalata and H Basappa also spoke on the occasion.
 
 Caption: Activist Anna Hazare speaks at the Foundation Day function at the University of Agricultural Sciences in Dharwad on Tuesday
 
 
