Due to the   scandal, the The   is considering postponing the 2018  , as reported by The Guardian.

 The scandal started in November 2017, when  , the husband of Swedish Academy member  , was accused of sexual assault and sexual harassment by 18 women.
 
 A chain of events followed;  , the academy's first female permanent secretary, who has led the Swedish Academy since 2015, "cut the academy’s ties with Mr. Arnault, and hired a law firm to conduct an investigation into its ties with" his businesses, according to The New York Times. The law firm found "financial irregularities," which the Swedish Academy failed to report.
 
 While the academy is not responsible for the abuse of the women, many of the members say they believe that the name of the Swedish Academy may have been thrown around to facilitate those abuses, Sara Danius told Svenska Dagbladet. “It is our responsibility to react against that,” she stated.
 
 An investigation also "accus[ed] Arnault of leaking in advance the names of seven past Nobel winners," according to The Guardian.
 
 Following all this, three members of the academy quit and Katarina Frostenson, whose husband was accused has also left the academy. Normally, a Swedish Academy member is appointed for life and there is no provision for resignations, which means the seats of those who left will remain unfilled until their deaths. There are normally 18 active members and quorum of 12 members is required to elect a new member in. Now, with the sudden drop in members there are only 11 active members so they can't vote another member in and there is no protocol in place to allow the remaining members to fill vacated seats.
 
 The Swedish King   has agreed to make changes that will allow the Nobel Prize-granting body to continue operation.
 
 However, to award the   in Literature, only 8 votes are needed so technically, if the members have enough time, they could award the prize this year but prize committee chair Per Wästberg told The Guardian that the prize may not be awarded this year, even though his part of the academy "is fully functioning, working according to our usual schedule". The final decision on the matter should be announced next week; "After our next Thursday meeting there will most probably be a statement on whether we will award a prize this year or reserve it for next year, in which case two prizes for literature will be announced in October 2019."
 
 If they do not announce it this year, it will be the first time since 1943 that the Swedish Academy has failed to award a Nobel Prize in Literature.
 
