AHMEDABAD: Cops in   are a confused lot after the state implemented the Gujarat Prohibition (Amendment) Act, 2017, which tightened liquor laws raising jail term to up to 10 years from three years along with increasing fine from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5 lakh.

 The police have suggested that the state home department specify the quantity of liquor seized from bootlegger/carrier to categorize if the person is to be prosecuted under the newly added section 65 (AA) of the Act which provides for three years’ jail or under 65 (E) which is punishable with stringent a 10-year jail term.
 
 As the government has not yet specified this quantity through any notification, it is leading to confusion for both cops and courts. On Monday, DGP of CID (Crime & Railways) Ashish Bhatia wrote to ACS Home mentioning that absence of clarity on the quantify of liquor is creating discrepancies in cases booked under the new, tighter law. The police have clearly told the government that since there is no clarity in the 2016 amendment, it is difficult to classify the cases in Sec 65E and 65AA.
 
 
 
 
 Hence it is necessary to specify the quantity so that amended prohibition act can be strictly implemented,” it read.
 
 In fact, the police department had raised this issue with state government in May last year and suggested that the quantity should be specified at 10 litres. If a person is caught with liquor which is up to 10 litres or 13 or less number of bottles of 750 ml, the the provision of law can be applied in which the punishment is up to three years. If the quantity is above this, the punishment is up to 10 years and a fine of Rs 5 lakh, the cops had suggested.
 
 Police department has stated non-specification of quantity of liquor seized is also leading to confusion as to which court-- magisterial or sessions court--should try the prohibition related cases. Section 65E of the law, which pertains to liquor seizure in huge quantitites, bars a trial in a magisterial court stating that these cases be tried in the sessions court.
 
 Ever since government implemeted tighter liquor law, over 1,000 prohibition related cases are unprosecuted in Ahmedabad city alone with both police and courts not sure about how to to proceed with these cases.
 
 In March last year, Ahmedabad’s principal sessions judge had sought clarity from the government on this aspect and was conveyed that the issue was under consideration.
 
 "Due to ambiguity over quantity, the sessions court has returned many prohibition related cases back to the metropolitan court," said public prosecutor Sudhir Brahmbhatt.
 
 When contacted, Minister of State, Home, Law & Legislative affairs,   said, “We will seek advice of legal experts to specify the quantity that can bring clarity on which court should try the cases.”
 
 Sources close to the development said: “The quantity was kept ambiguous so that bootleggers can be kept in custody for long in order to discourage them to continue with the illegal business.”
 
 
