JAIPUR: From past one year—Dhruv Bohara and   of Udaipur had been helping each other in clearing doubts of Class X CBSE subjects. But never in their wildest dreams could they have imagined sharing first position in the Class X CBSE results that were announced on Tuesday. Both known as maths wizkids in their schools, Bohara is from   and Dixit is from St Paul’s Senior Secondary School, in Udaipur have scored 495 marks out of 500 in the exam. Score of magical 100 marks has not surprised anyone who has seen both of them solving complex and lengthy calculations in fraction of seconds.

 
 The duo met in a coaching centre a year ago in Udaipur. Though they did not share common career interest, but they became good friends due to shared interest in maths and science. “I am happy that we both have scored 100 marks in maths and science. Last week we were shifted in a different building in different locations by our coaching institute due to our different career goals,” said Dixit. Bohara aims to get admission in IIT-Bombay, while Dixit’s heart lies in  , Delhi.
 
 “I would like to become a software engineer because I like coding and my interest in maths makes it a natural choice,” said Bohara. He found great pleasure in solving equations, calculations, tables and theories. “This is the subject that never makes me tired even if I practice it for hours. I have rarely missed centum in Maths in all my previous exams,” said Bohara.
 
 Other than his parents and teachers, both attributed their success to the positive use of social media which has helped them saving hours. “Everybody talks about the demerits of the social media but it is actually a most convenient medium of interaction between students and teachers. I had always posted my queries as per my convenience on my school teacher whatsapp group and has received a reply from my teachers within hours,” said Dixit, whose views were echoed by Bohara.
 
 Aware that getting admission in IIT or AIIMS is not a cakewalk, the toppers have started preparing for their respective competitive exams. “I can’t take any chances. I have started taking coaching for medical entrance exam. It is an integrated system where I’ll be studying for class XI and XII along with coaching,” said Bohara.
 
