Love is an encompassing word and, more than anything else, a necessary binding factor. On Valentine’s Day, we are initiating a dialogue about love beyond religion, gender, race, forms and all boundaries! Some readers have already shared their thoughts on our social media pages. Now, it’s your chance to spread the word. Together, 
 ...

 
 For 
 , IFFB Pro, Body Building champion Love is an experience that cannot be defined. “Love has nothing to do with gender. To love is to be human,” she says. Check out what other Puneites have to say about love.
 
  
  
 
 For 
 Prince of Rajpipla in Gujarat,   is a day where one has the right to express their feeling to one another, no matter what gender. “Love is unconditional, one should have the freedom to love another person,” he says. He is the first openly gay prince in the world.
 
  
  
 
 
  needs no introduction. Being someone who has acted in many romantic movies, her idea of love is simple. “Love for me is a smile when some is tired, love is listening to someone, helping the dear one to take a plunge, love is wanting to spend seasons together. Love is silence, love is laughter,” she says.
 
  
  
  
 For actor 
 who recently got married to Priyanka Dhawle, love is something that can’t be defined. “Love can’t be defined in sentences. It’s not limited to just a girl and boy. It has no boundaries, and no conditions. For me and my wife Priyanka, love is in our aura…I don’t have to express things to her, she understands every bit of me, whether I am happy or dejected. That is love.”
 
  
  
 
 
 , love is like meditation. “Love for me is a state of mind. Something that takes you away from all troubles, makes you a better person and brings out the best in you. It can be your lover, friend, or parents,” he says.
 
  
  
 
 For wrestler 
 , love cannot ne bounded by any kind of discrimination. “Valentines day is not just for couples. The day is to celebrate love for each other despite caste, religion or without any kind of discrimination.”
 
  
  
 
 
  who came to limelight after his stint at the reality show 'Bigg Boss' defines love as medium to respect one another. “This Valentines day lets pledge to love everyone around you and respect each other.”
 
  
  
 
 For a woman who adorns many professional hats, 
 , a singer-actress-painter,writer who starred in one of Bollywood's best-loved movies, Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa, says, “Love is kindness and acceptance. Love is accepting your differences and letting aside the competition.”
 
  
  
 
 For film and theatre personality 
  love cannot be categorised. She stresses on youngsters who confuse love for lust. She believes hatred too is necessary to establish love. 
 
  
  
 
