The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India has amended the   (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2018 to fix a time frame for identifying resolution applicants. As the amended regulation makes it mandatory to identify the applicants by the 105th day, experts say the resolution process can be completed in a timely manner within the stipulated 180 days.

 
 Currently, there is no deadline for identifying resolution applicants. Generally, the identification process and criteria keep changing till the fag end of the resolution period, which lead to delays in completion of the entire process. K S Ravichandran of KSR & Co Company Secretaries said, “It (the amendment) means bids must be invited under section 25, much before the 105th day.” 
 
 Monish Panda, founder of legal firm Monish Panda & Associates, said, “Hopefully, the new amendment will ensure timely completion of the resolution process.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 However, the lack of a fixed time frame for identifying resolution professionals (RPs) was only one of the several factors behind the stretched bankruptcy resolution processes. Recent weeks have seen legal challenges dragging the outcome in some of the prominent cases.
 
 The IBBI (Liquidation Process) (Amendment) Regulations, 2018 also come into play after the insolvency resolution process is not successful. Earlier, regulation 32 of the principal regulations provided four modes for liquidation of a   — sale on a stand-alone basis, slump sale, selling assets in parcel, and selling assets collectively. After the latest amendment, the IBBI has added a fifth method of selling assets of the corporate debtor — ‘as a going concern’. 
 
 Panda said, “A   indicates that the company has not completely dissolved yet, even though its valuation may be considerably lower. This inclusion is in line with the spirit of the code.” He added, “The objective of the code is to ensure continuity of the corporate debtor as a going concern to realise maximum value for creditors and ensure welfare of employees of the corporate debtor.”
 
 The amendment contemplates a scenario where, despite failure of the resolution process, the corporate debtor continues as a going concern. The liquidator then has the option to sell it as such, rather than in parcels, if he/she feels that selling the company as a going concern will fetch a better value than in bits and pieces.
 
 Ravichandran said, “This amendment brings to the fore the need to preserve, if possible, the status of the undertaking as a going concern, which will bring more value rather than selling assets of a closed undertaking. This method of sale will protect contracts and arrangements that are under way and employees and stakeholders will benefit from the continued operations of the undertaking.”
 
 
