MYSURU: None too pleased with the redrawing of the boundaries of the 65 wards falling under the purview of   ( ), JD(S)   of the city on Tuesday approached chief minister  , urging him to reconsider the state government’s decision.

 
 Boundaries of wards are redrawn in accordance with the 74th amendment of the Constitution, which stipulates change in reservation and altering the contours of wards, to ensure even distribution of population. Accordingly, the authorities concerned took up the task of redrawing boundaries of the local wards under MCC.
 
 The problem is that, population in some wards is less than 5,000, while a few others boast a demographic in excess of 20,000. Yaraganahalli (Ward no. 56) has a population of 23,000. The boundaries of all wards are now being redrawn to ensure that the average population is within the 13,000 to 15,000 range.
 
 However, the corporators representing some of the wards whose boundaries are being redrawn are understandably perturbed. Saraswathipuram (Ward 20), currently represented by former mayor R Lingappa, has been divided into four parts and, the name of the ward has been removed from the list.
 
 With the term of the current MCC council ending on September 5, and elections to the local body due later this year, redrawing of boundaries of wards, division of the wards, and their distribution to neighbouring ones would mean that corporators would lose their connect with voters. 
 
 Former mayor Lingappa told TOI that all JD(S) corporators met the CM in Bengaluru and expressed their apprehensions over the move. “We want the elections to the local body postponed and a solution found to this problem. My ward has been divided, and distributed to other wards, and the name has been removed from the list. Division of the wards has been done without public consultation, which is in violation of the law,” said Lingappa.
 
 33 wards reserved for women in Mysuru
 
 Incumbent corporators are also worried about the new notification by the Election Commission on reservation for women. Where 30% of the wards were reserved for women earlier, which meant 23 wards had women corporators, half of the wards will now be represented by women. Of the 65 wards under the MCC, 33 have been reserved for women.
 
 KN Pura ward corporator HS Srikantaiah said, “There are as many as 218 local bodies including town panchayats, town municipal councils, etc, in the state. Given the confusion about wards and reservation, the new government will take time and might decide to hold elections to all 218 local bodies in February next year,” he said.
 
 
