HYDERABAD: Hussainsagar’s once pristine and clear waters had inspired numerous historians and poets to extol its glory and beauty.

 If British officer, city historian and author   had compared the waters of Hussainsagar with shining pearls and diamonds, nightingale of India   could not resist describing the lake as a reflection of her soul.
 
 Sarojini Naidu, in the beginning of the 20th century, wrote a poem on the Hussainsagar inspired by the white silvery water curtain formed at the outflow gate when excess flood water falls down into the stream below. Sadly, the stream is now a municipal gutter – Ashoknagar Nala – and the heavy pollutants in the water body have robbed from the sight of Hyderabadis the legendary ‘chadar’ or water curtain.
 
 She had described the water body as the image of her soul — “O, lake, O living image of my soul.”
 
 Referring to the poem, nonagenarian Olympian Jeelani  , who created a world record by swimming in Hussainsagar hands tied for 24 hours non-stop in May 1947, told TOI that he used to see the lake bed from the surface while swimming as the water was crystal clear.
 
 “Despite swimming in the lake for 24 hours, I did not fall ill, thanks to the potable water the lake had those days,” he recalls, adding how he got a prize of Rs 1,000 then.
 
 Pairak, considered as the father of swimming in   and  , said there used to be two pavilions on the   for people to watch swimming while music was played from the   where the Buddha statue now stands.
 
 “If you take a boat and go near the pavilion, you will find the steps from the bund to the lake surface. The pavilions were converted into a restaurant and a Lepakshi showroom,” Pairak said.
 
 INTACH Telangana coconvener P Anuradha Reddy said the pavilions were recreation spots for people as they watched swimmers compete with each other. “Swimmers went up to the Rock of Gibraltar, touched it before returning to the pavilions. The only photos of pavilions in their heydays were from Central government archives, taken during the visit of Shah of   to Hyderabad in 1956,” Reddy told TOI.
 
