HYDERABAD: It will be a no-holds barred attempt by the   (TRS) to get 'justice for Telangana' when parliament resumes its session on March 5. Chief minister   has convened a meeting of the TRS parliamentary party on Saturday to discuss the strategy to be adopted for the session. "The CM will discuss with the MPs about the action to be taken for the solution of several pending projects of the state with the centre," according to a note from the CPRO to CM. Lok Sabha and Rajya members of the TRS have been asked to attend the meeting convened by the CM at 4 pm at  .

 The meeting primarily is to ask the MPs to take a tough stand in parliament on all issues related to Telangana. According to party sources, Chandrasekhar Rao had decided that the TRS should not be seen as a 'pliable and friendly' party by the BJP-led NDA government. The chief minister is of the view that since many of the demands made by the state government had not been met by the centre in the last four years, it was time to put pressure on the center. TRS leaders felt that despite the fact that the state government stood by the centre on many issues, including on GST and Demonetisation, the BJP had not reciprocated to the extent expected by the TRS government.
 
 "One important thing definitely is the linking of MGNREGA with agriculture. For the last four years, we have been asking the centre for this but to no avail,"   MP   said. She explained that in the parliament session that will resume from March 5, MPs will speak firmly on budgetary grants for Telangana. "The state has got nothing literally in the budget. Many other states too have not got anything. When the ministry-wise allocation comes up for discussion in parliament, our MPs will point out the how Telangana has been neglected by the centre," she said.
 
 There are many bifurcation issues pending but one important thing is the bifurcation of High Court. "When both AP and Telangana want the High Court bifurcation, this should be done without any delay," Kavitha Kalvakuntala said.
 
 While the issues what the TRS will raise are what they have always been demanding, Chandrasekhar Rao wants to show to the government at the centre that the state government means business. For this reason, MPs will be asked to adopt a tough posture and speak on subjects with complete preparation.
 
