Vadodara: The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has announced a prize of Rs 10 lakh for the Baroda team that became group champions in the recently concluded Vijay Hazare Trophy – a one day national tournament. Though the team couldn’t go beyond the quarter-finals in the tournament, the award has come as a booster shot for the young team that played without experienced seniors.  The Baroda team has, in fact, performed well in the four-day Ranji games and Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament as well. Baroda won four out of the six games it played in the Ranji Trophy and its big moment came when it even beat Mumbai on first innings lead. The young squad won six matches out eight in the T20 tournament while it lost two games out of the seven it played in the one day tourney.  Baroda Ranji coach Atul Bedade attributed the team’s performance to the players. “We have got some fantastic young players who play with their heart. Most of the team members rose to the occasion by either taking wickets or scoring big runs in all the three tournaments. At this level, I just have to provide them the necessary support and motivation,” Bedade told TOI. “This team has got a lot of potential and it can go on to become champions in next couple of seasons,” he added.  The Ranji team selection was caught in controversy just when the season started as skipper Irfan Pathan was dropped after two matches citing poor performance. Deepak Hooda was then made the skipper of the team that won the remaining four matches. Yusuf Pathan wasn’t available for the T20 tourney and he was dropped from the Vijay Hazare Trophy after a poor performance. Interestingly, while the team got its reward for good performance Vijay Hazare Trophy, Bedade had to wait for the entire season to end before getting his due remuneration.  He worked on the salary scale of an Under-19 coach for the entire season before his salary was raised to Rs 1.25 lakh per month during a managing committee meeting some days ago. In fact, remuneration of all the coaches and trainers was decided after the season almost ended. When asked about the remuneration, Bedade said that for him team’s performance counts more than the money and refused to comment further.