CHANDIGARH: As many as 324 students will receive their PhD degrees, 248 students will be awarded medals and 560 students will be awarded other degrees at the 67th annual convocation of   (PU) on March 4. 

 The 67th annual convocation of PU will start at 10am as per the revised communication received on February 21 from the chancellor, PU, and vice-president of India, M Venkaiah Naidu.
 
 PU is going to confer honorary degrees DSc (honoris causa) on Prof MM Sharma (FRS) and DSc, (honoris causa) on Prof Sir Tejinder Singh Virdee (FRS). After completing his PhD from Cambridge University in 1964, Prof Man Mohan Sharma became a professor at the University of Bombay. Later, he became the director of the university department of chemical technology (UDCT), now the   (ICT), a deemed university. 
 
 He served as the director of the institute for 33 years. He was conferred the Padma Vibhushan in 2001 and   in 1987.
 
 Prof Virdee teaches at the Imperial College of London and was elected the Fellow of the   in 2012. He was knighted in the Queen's birthday honours in 2014. Moreover, the university will award Khel Rattan to legendary athlete Milkha Singh, Gyan Rattan to Prof Emeritus BN Goswamy and Udyog Rattan Award to Sunil Kant Munjal.
 
 The route from gate no-I via administrative block, chemistry department and physics department road up to gymnasium hall won't be accessible to the public from 10am to 1pm on annual convocation day. This is the   route for the movement of the vice-president and other bigwigs coming to the university for the event. No vehicles will be allowed to be parked on this route road on March 3 and March 4.
 
 On March 4, the gate no.2 will remain open from 6am to 10am. No vehicles will be allowed to enter from gate no.1 from 10am to 1pm. 
 
 The gate no. 2 will remain open all through the day and gate no.3 will remain open from 6am to 10pm.
 
 No residents and visitors of PU are allowed to park their vehicles on the side of the road on the university campus on March 3 and March 4. If any vehicle is found parked in an unauthorised area, it will be towed away by the traffic police of Chandigarh. 
 
 
