PUNE: The much-needed skywalk that will connect and ease pressure on all three foot over bridges at the   will soon open to the public.

 An official from Central Railway’s Pune division told TOI was confident that the skywalk will be opened by January 31. 
 
 The skywalk, and the new foot over bridge (FOB), have been in the works for a while, but were infused with a sense of urgency after last September’s Elphinstone bridge stampede in Mumbai, which claimed 22 lives. 
 
 The tragedy compelled Indian railway authorities to focus on the safety and security of passengers. 
 
 “The skywalk is an important project for the Pune railway station, which currently witnesses more than 2 lakh in daily passenger traffic,” a senior official said. “We expect the skywalk to considerably reduce the rush at the old foot over bridge at the Solapur end (of the railway station), thus minimizing any chances of an accident. We are positive that the skywalk will open to the public by January 31,” the official added 
 
 Sources in the division said that they were targeting a January 26 completion date. Most passengers use the foot over bridge at the Solapur end of the railway station, which results in a massive rush — a hair away from a stampede — in the peak hours. 
 
 Maximum passengers use only the Solapur end FOB, which is the oldest overbridge at Pune station which results in a massive rush and stampede like situation on the overbridge during the afternoon hours. The officials said the skywalk will bring a lot of respite. 
 
 “While the under-construction FOB — set to be ready by March — will solve the current problems, the skywalk will definitely help. The skywalk connects all three FOBs, and so the pressure of passengers on the old FOB will surely reduce. Passengers use the Solapur end FOB the most as it has an exit towards the second entry (to the station) on the  , near the Pune division railway office, unlike the other FOBs. Now, with the skywalk connecting them, all the FOBs will automatically have an exit towards the second entry. The work has sped up in the past few months and we hope that it will go on smoothly,” another official said.
 
 Passengers complain on a daily basis about the rush on the old FOB, particularly between 3pm and 6.30pm, prompting officials to start building the new FOB as well as the skywalk. 
 
 “We have taken many steps, which include placing of the railway   (RPF) men at the FOB in peak hours to manage the crowd, removing the train display board on the FOB, ensuring that people do not loiter around it. We are also trying to ensure that train announcements take place at least half-an-hour before the schedule. While such steps have worked, people still stand on the FOB, so we are putting in place a provision to fine them. We are banking on the skywalk as well on the new FOB to straighten things out,” the official said.
 
