NAGPUR: Nagpur traffic police have defended their decision to declare entire   as ‘no-parking zone’ stating that the exercise was undertaken to ease traffic congestion in the area. In an affidavit submitted by police inspector (PI) Jayesh Bhandarkar in the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday, he clarified that traffic on Sitabuldi Main Road was not only heavy but also uncontrollable.

 A division bench comprising justices   and Swapna Joshi adjourned the hearing after petitioner’s counsels Firdos Mirza and   sought a week’s time to reply. 
 
 The court was hearing a petition filed by ‘Sitabuldi Merchants’ Association’s’ questioning the powers of DCP (Traffic) in declaring such no-parking zones when the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) is the authority. Quoting HC’s earlier orders in case filed by ‘Nagpur Feriwala Footpath Dukandar Sanghatna’, the petitioners pointed out that 10 metres of carriageway should be kept open for the public on every busy road.
 
 Clarifying that the parking restrictions were imposed on a pilot basis for only a month, Bhandarkar said DCP’s notification for implementing ‘no-parking zone’ was issued as per powers vested with him under Section 33[1][c] of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951.
 
 “Interest of two-wheelers, four wheelers and pedestrians has to be taken into account while resolving the heavy traffic congestion issue. The citizens can raise grievances and make suggestions which would be considered by the authority. The space between footpath and yellow line would be vacant on account of no-parking zone and could be used by pedestrians,” said Bhandarkar
 
 The PI pointed out a communication dated March 12 from a private infrastructure and real estate player informing that provision is being made for parking 180 two-wheelers and 1,500 cars at Glocal Square, a mall coming up on Abhyankar Nagar. “It has completed construction of basement, Mezzanine and ground floor and parking of 500 two-wheelers and 150 cars is ready,” the affidavit stated.
 
 Bhandarkar invited court’s attention towards similar restrictions on West High Court Road, from   to Shankar Nagar Square, from Shahid Smarak till Damdu Chowk and other areas. “The authorities installed notices, signs, parking, no parking boards to indicate the ‘no parking’ zone in various areas of the city. The move is in interest of the public and not to cause any inconvenience to any section of society,” he said.
 
 (With inputs from Tejas Mundhada)
 
 
