TRICHY: The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has taken water sample from the Uyyakondan canal for laboratory inspection in the wake of the constant uproar over the rampant pollution that the centuries-old irrigation canal is subjected to while passing through the city. The action was based on a directive from the district administration after plumes of foam surfaced over Uyyakondan near Kuzhumayi Amman temple recently, thus attracting the attention of authorities. 

 Environmentalists here plan to file a public interest litigation (PIL) for drawing the attention of Trichy Corporation, Public Works Department (PWD) and the district administration to the frothing incident which demands a sense of urgency in addressing the plight of the water body. With the canal passing through the city for about 8.4 kms, several hamlets including Kodappu relying on the canal built by Chola great Rajaraja Cholan have stopped depending on the water body due to the pollutants it carries. Independent observation by eNGO Thanneer here revealed that sewage and sullage from households and commercial establishments at eight spots flow into the canal without any interruption round-the-clock. 
 
 Meanwhile, on Thursday, after the city got soaked in the sudden downpour, plumes of foam were seen emanating from the surface of Uyyakondan, particularly near Kuzhumayi amman temple. “I have been seeing Uyyakondan for 66 years, but frothing has never happened before. It is high time the authorities take the protection of the water body seriously,” farmer  , district secretary,   (CPI), said.
 
 As the foam surfacing from the canal was conveyed to the district administration, TNPCB officials were directed to inspect the vicinity and take samples if needed for laboratory observation. Subsequently, on Friday, officials from   inspected Uyyakondan flowing from PWD’s aquaduct near Kuzhumayi amman temple. Though official sources with TNPCB claimed that no industry was located in the ambit of the canal, locals and environmentalist argued that frothing was impossible without the presence of heavy chemicals discharged into the water body. 
 
 “We have taken a sample to study parameters such as acidity level found in the water. Detailed results to analyse the properties of the sample taken from Uyyakondan may take a week,” a senior official with TNPCB told TOI. The official also claimed that frothing could have been the fallout of heavy downpour in the city a few days ago. “The dried detergents or soap particles deposited on canal due to the turbulence caused in sudden rainfall might have caused the frothing. However we have to study the sample taken,” the official added.
 
 
