JHARGRAM: The former Maoist badlands of  , Banspahari, Binpur in West Midnapore, bordering the BJP-ruled Jharkhand, have once again come in chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s focus — for a different reason. These areas are witnessing afresh schism on caste lines between Kurmis and Santhals, replacing class, that might throw a challenge to the ruling Trinamool’s beneficiary politics.

 Mamata fears her partymen at the grassroots are at times failing to gauge the public mood that her detractors and groups from Jharkhand may put to use against her in   ahead of the panchayat polls. And this time, the CM took a two-pronged approach instead of running a routine check on the government schemes and projects.
 
  
 “We have already written to the Centre, urging for an ST status for the Kurmis in West Bengal. The survey is also complete. I will write to the Centre again. This can’t wait,” the CM said, giving due emphasis to the Kurmi cause, along with bringing out textbooks in Alchiki script.
 
 Aware of the sentiments that can flare up any moment, the CM wanted her partymen to ensure transparency and shunning nepotism while drawing up the beneficiary list. At Friday’s administrative meeting at Jhargram, Mamata pulled up Trinamool-run Binpur II panchayat samity sabhapati Bangsibadan Mahato. “You all have to get rid of the attitude that what you decide is final and there can’t be anyone in the beneficiary list who you didn’t select. Let me make something very clear. The government schemes are meant for the poor and no one should be left out, no matter which party he supports. Why should I have to hear complaints that you are not available in the area? I have my own information channel and Ihave come to know that there are some people in the area who need houses. There are some who are not getting widow pension,” the CM said.
 
 She turned to Samay Mandi, saha-sabhapati of the Midnapore Zill Parishad, and asked him to give more time to people. The CM had the same instructions for Trinamool district veterans Churamani Mahato and Sukumar Hansda. “Sukumarda, you are senior and a doctor. The community respects you. Don’t wait for getting an invite to a programme. You reach out to all the places,” the CM said.
 
 The chief minister then turned to the inspectors in charge of police station. “Find out who all are trying to fan emotions in your area. Beef up your intelligence network. Don’t keep information to yourself. Pass it on to the SP as and when you get it,” the CM told the Nayagram IC.
 
 Taking note of the local demand for re-introducing the 5pm bus from Belpahari, the chief minister instructed transport secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to start the service immediately.
 
 “I want the transport department to start the 5pm service and also a pair of bus services from Jhargram to Midnapore and from Jhargram to Kolkata,”
 
 “Public service can’t suffer for a bus depot. You better start the services and find out a temporary space for parking. Teachers coming to Belpahari schools are facing difficulty in going back home,” the CM said.
 
 
