Pune: Juggling between board exams and shooting, Anish Bhanwal, 15, clinched gold in men’s 25m rapid fire final at   (U-21) in Sydney on Monday.

 
 
 
 
 The Haryana shooter, who has got special dates from the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for his class X board exams, shot 585 (290 stage 1, 295 stage 2) to qualify for the final.
 
 
 In the final, Anish started off by hitting four targets out of five. He continued by making it 9/10 in the next series. He finished with 29/40 to win gold, while China’s Zhipeng Cheng shot 27 for silver. Another Chinese Jueming Zhang fired 23 for bronze.
 
 
 The medal is special for the young shooter as it has come during a time where he is appearing for his exams and participating in five World Cups and Commonwealth Games.
 
 
 Before leaving for Sydney, Anish had appeared for two subjects, and he will sit for three more papers, which he had missed, once he reaches India after participating in the Commonwealth Games. He had missed one paper while participating in the senior World Cup earlier this month, and has missed two more papers during his participation in the Sydney World Cup. The Sports Authority of India and CBSE had arranged special dates for Anish, to appear for papers that he had missed while competing.
 
 
 “I will reach Delhi on early morning of April 16 and will have my Hindi paper on the same day. On April 17 and April 18, I will have Math and Social Science papers. I will leave for Korea World Cup on April 18. Since the schedule is tight, I have got my books along with me,” Anish told TOI after his shooting contest.
 
 
 Anish trains for four hours and then studies for almost two hours in the hotel room. He has a tutor in his sister Muskan, who is also participating in the World Cup. “There are times when I have a few doubts while solving Mathematics problems, but my sister helps me solve them,” said Anish.
 
 
 Muskan will shoot in women’s 25m pistol event on Wednesday.
 
 
 Other than the exam pressure, Monday’s medal was a relief for Anish after he faced disappointment in the senior   World Cup in Guadalajara in Mexico earlier this month. He had finished 7th in his first World Cup appearance after shooting 578 in the qualification round. Top six shooters qualify for the final in rapid fire event.
 
 
 “I had lost focus during the second stage of the senior match. I was disappointed after that match. Today, I was focused and wanted to win the medal,” Anish said.
 
 
 Though Anish’s scores are good enough to win a medal even at the senior level, the field on Monday wasn’t a strong one. Total 10 shooters from three countries participated in the match. Six were Indians, three Chinese and one from Thailand.
 
 
 Other Indians in the final, Anhad Jawanda and Rajkanwar Singh Sandhu finished fourth and sixth respectively. While Adarsh Singh, Japtyesh Singh and Mandeep Singh failed to qualify for the final.
 
 
 
 
