Pune: Cash and gold ornaments totally worth Rs9.6 lakh were stolen in six burglaries in different parts of the city over the weekend. 

 During the night intervening Saturday and Sunday, burglaries were reported in Lohegaon, Hadaspar, Khadki, Sangvi, Sus Road and Vadgaon Budruk.
 
 Manojkumar Yevale, a 42-year-old medical practitioner, living in Sanjay Park in Lohegaon had gone with his family to attend a function on Sunday afternoon. They returned home late at night to a house that was broken into. The burglars had entered the house by breaking open the rear door to he bungalow. “They forced the cupboards open and stole cash and gold ornaments worth Rs4.93 lakh,” said assistant inspector M R Khokale of Airport police. 
 
 The police are examining CCTV footage from the area. 
 
 In the wee hours of Sunday in Khadki, burglars broke the locks of the shutter of a medical shop and stole Rs1.82 lakh in cash and a box of fairness cream worth Rs10,000. The theft was discovered around 7am when an Omprakash Purohit, the shop owner, arrived at his store.
 
 Around the same time, in Jayjawan housing society in Hadapsar was broken into, with the suspects making off with cash and gold worth Rs1.32 lakh. Sunil Chavan (49) has lodged a complaint with the Hadapsar police.
 
 Meanwhile, Aditya Datir’s Old Sangvi flat, in Neel Residency, was also burgled. According to Datir’s complaint, the burglars broke the lock and stole cash and gold worth Rs45,000. Also burgled was a beer shop in Vadgaon Budruk, where Rs36,000 was stolen from the cash counter. 
 
 Raghttam Kulhali (58) of Sus Road has lodged a complaint that on Saturday morning, burglars stole gold worth Rs70,000 from his flat in Shivalay Society. “Kulhali discovered the theft around 10.30am,” a Chatushrungi police officer said.
 
 Same gang’s role suspected 
 
 A crime branch officer said they suspect the involvement of various members of the same gang, based on the similarities in all six burgralies. “Our teams are out to trace the suspects.” 
 
 
