NAGPUR: Even though the two regional transport and deputy east transport offices in   division are facing acute staff crunch, the state transport commissioner’s office is not serious to fill the vacant posts.

 The TC office has sent around 5 senior officials — mostly MVIs — from Vidarbha region on deputation to other offices in the state in the last one-and-a-half years.
 
 Senior officials told TOI that the transport commissioner is apparently giving priority to offices in western Maharashtra, Mumbai and Thane despite 50% posts — from deputy RTOs to class IV employees — lying vacant in Vidarbha. Against the sanctioned 450 posts, 225 are lying vacant.
 
 Citing an example, the officer said despite 10 posts of motor vehicle inspectors (MVIs) out of the 18 sanctioned are vacant, the TC office had sent MVI Dilip Darade from rural office on deputation to Thane. Smita Kolhe, motor vehicle inspector from   office, has been sent on deputation to Mumbai (central) office.
 
 Sources said the TC office neglects manpower crunch in RTOs in Vidarbha. The city and east RTOs are already facing severe manpower crunch as 50% of the sanctioned 202 posts are vacant for the last couple of years. The lone post of deputy RTO in Nagpur city office is vacant for over a year after   was transferred to Gondia. Now, deputy RTO Ravindra Bhuyar, who is in charge of Gadchiroli office, has been given additional charge of both Nagpur city and east offices.
 
 The situation in the rural office is also grim. Of the sanctioned posts of 64 class-I officers, only 26 were filled and 38 are vacant in this office having jurisdiction over Gondia, Bhandara, Chandrapur and Gadchiroli.
 
 Sources from Pune region said an ex-RTO is reportedly “interfering” in the transport department for transfers and postings of all cadres. Even many officials, who were transferred to Vidarbha, managed to stall their postings. Sources also pointed out that most of the senior officials have already submitted applications seeking transfer to other regions.
 
 In the past too, TOI had highlighted that many senior officers, who had been transferred to Nagpur region, have managed to redirect their postings in ‘cream’ western Maharashtra. Very few officials are willingly serving in this region.
 
 Sources claimed that those who are promoted from lower cadres are being posted in this region as they have no “godfather”. The lack of manpower has actually delayed services in the department. People become restless after standing in queues for long durations and arguments between public and officials have become a routine affair in most of the offices in the city, east or any other offices in the region.
 
 For instance, in the east office, one has to wait for not less than half an hour (sometimes over an hour) in the queue during peak hours. The office issues 200 learner licences, 100 driving licences and 200 registrations on an average day apart from fitness certificates and also a host of other services. However, the available manpower is no match to the people turning up to the office. The situation is no different in other offices in the division, said the sources.
 
 Senior officials from transport commissioner’s office in Mumbai refused to speak over the issue and stated that postings and transfers are being managed by government. Transport minister   was not available for comments.
 
 
