BENGALURU: Bengaluru: Private equity biggie   ( ) is merging two of its portfolio companies in the business process outsourcing (BPO) space – NYSE-listed Startek and Aegis Global – to create a $700 million entity to bolster its footprint in the US and Philippines and tap into marquee e-commerce customers. 

 CSP’s managing partner   played a key role in the merger. He previously structured a private consortium that bought Aditya Birla’s BPO firm Minacs in a $260 million deal, and also structured European PE firm Partners Group’s acquisition of Chennai-based CSS Corp for $270 million.
 
 Post transaction, CSP will own approximately 55% of the combined entity and Startek shareholders will own the remaining 45%. CSP will also have the right to appoint a majority of the combined company’s board of directors. The combination of Aegis and Startek will create a global enterprise with over 50,000 employees and operations in 12 countries across five continents. 
 
 Aegis chairman   said the deal will expand its footprint in the US and the Philippines as it morphs into a customer experience company leveraging cross-vertical synergies in the telecom, banking and the e-commerce spaces. “Customer experience is the next high ground to take. BPO firms must reconstruct that unified view for the customer leveraging on big data. This is a white space that needs to be captured. It’s a new frontier of customer experience,” he said. 
 
 Chakrabarty said the combined company will also be able to significantly leverage automation, artificial intelligence and other technology-led innovations to deliver exponential value to customers globally.
 
 Sengupta said that even as the economic construct of the deal is being worked out, it would be a “one organization with one brand name.” "The focus is on delivering a seamless customer experience that requires a different DNA from the classical BPOs. You have to look at the operational capacity. The moment of truth is to deliver a real-time flawless experience," he added. 
 
 As of last year, Aegis had close to $388 million in revenue with $38 million in adjusted EBITDA . Startek generated $293 million in revenue, a $1.3 million net loss and $13 million in adjusted EBITDA. Post the transaction, the top three customers of the combined company will represent 30% of the total revenue. The combined capital structure is expected to include approximately $180 million of debt.
 
 The companies’ integration plans and leadership structure are expected to be announced soon.
 
 In January, Startek and Amazon.com entered into a transaction agreement to provide commercial services to the latter. 
 
 
 
