KOLKATA: A dashing young man working enthusiastically on a scientific research that would soon change established notions on black holes. That’s how veteran scientist Bikash Sinha recalls his first meeting with Stephen Hawking way back in 1966. The legendary physicist, who passed away on Wednesday, hadn’t yet displayed any symptom of the debilitating amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that would soon leave him wheel-chair-bound.

 “Hawking had come to attend a seminar at Oxford where I was an undergraduate. He was then at Cambridge and had started making waves with his revolutionary theories. Soon, he would join hands with fellow scientist Roger Penrose to develop the path-breaking Hawking-Penrose singularity theory that eventually led to the concept of Big Bang. As a young student, I was obviously in awe of him but didn’t get a chance to interact,” said Sinha.
 
 Nine years later, Sinha eventually met him over dinner at the California Institute of Technology (Caltech). “He had just discovered the famous Hawking radiation, which proved that black holes were not entirely black but radiated and left behind heat after they collapsed. Hawking was the darling of the world of physics by then, a star and an icon. But he was already wheel-chair bound and had difficulty in conversing. Yet, I managed a brief conversation, which he remembered when we met again in 1998. It was a ceremony organized by the applied mathematics and physics department of King’s College in Cambridge. He was frail and weak. When I recalled the   seminar in 1974, he replied through gesture, by twitching his eyelids.”
 
 At the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Caltech, senior research scientist Goutam Chattopadhyay sat barely two doors away from Hawking and counts himself among a lucky few to have been in such proximity with the legend.
 
 “I was a graduate student at Caltech in mid-late 90s. Though I was doing PhD in Electrical Engineering, my thesis advisor was in physics. Professor Hawking used to spend the winter months at Caltech and used to sit on the 4th floor of Downs Laboratory of Physics, two door down from my office. We used to have small talks. I would later pinch myself. Was I dreaming? Someone from a rural village like Nabagram getting the opportunity to talk to him, see him on a daily basis, that was so inspiring,” he recounted.
 
 He considers Hawking a Supernova of modern science who, through his work and his life story inspired generations of students, kids, and grown ups. But the Stephen Hawking story, he says, is not one of science but a human story.
 
  (SINP) professor Amit Ghosh met Hawking at a seminar on black holes in   in 1998. Then working at the CERN project in Geneva, Ghosh recalled how Hawking spoke to him and a fellow Indian scientist through a computer attached to his wheel-chair. “He was coming out of the hall during a break while we were at the lobby. We were completely awestruck by him. Two of us approached him and asked him how he was doing. He immediately started typing out his answer on the screen. ‘It’s nice to see Indian scientists here’, he said.
 
 “He was well aware of everything that was happening in the world of physics. But Hawking had to stop repeatedly in the course of his lecture. He was turning breathless and had to be assisted by a nurse,” added Ghosh.
 
