BENGALURU:   took oath on the grand steps of Vidhana Soudha, along with   as his deputy, to form the second Congress-JD(S) alliance government in the state on Wednesday.H D Kumaraswamy

 
 Kumaraswamy described himself as “sandharbika shishu” (child of circumstances) who became CM due to the national scenario.
 
 “I had said after the Uttar Pradesh election results came out that my aim is to tie the Ashwamwedha horse of   and Amit Shah (BJP president). Today both   and JD(S) together have tied up the duo’s Ashwamedha horse in Karnataka,” Kumaraswamy said.
 
 “Given the prevailing political circumstances at the national level, the Congress leaders have given me the opportunity to lead this government and we intend to make it a model coalition government,” he said.
 
 Taking oath as the 24th chief minister of Karnataka, Kumaraswamy projected “Kannada pride” by taking oath in the name of god and “Karnataka Janara” (people of Karnataka). Kumaraswamy’s oath lasted for exactly 1 minute and 52 seconds. Dressed in crisp white shirt and dhoti, he was accompanied by his wife   on the dais.
 
 Congress state chief Parameshwara took oath of office and secrecy in the name of God. His swearing-in lasted less than a minute.
 
 Two hours before the swearing-in, a thunderstorm lashed the city, disrupting the arrangements that had been made for the grand show. Kumaraswamy though described the rain as a good sign, saying the installation of his government will rid the state of all the dirt heaped on it by the BJP.
 
 “The show of strength and the presence of national leaders at my swearing-in was to send a message to the nation that the opposition and regional parties are uniting in time for the 2019 elections. It was not purely to come and congratulate me for taking oath as the CM,” he said.
 
 Asked about a similar convention of regional parties held in Bengaluru in 2009 which went nowhere, Kumaraswamy said: “The circumstances in 2009 and 2019 are completely different. There is nothing to suggest that this will meet the same fate.”
 
 Prior to the swearing-in, a cordial atmosphere was built with leaders of various regional parties mingling with UPA chief Sonia Gandhi and Congress chief  . Even the seating arrangements were made in a particular order. While former UP CMs   and   were seated together, CMs Mamata Banerjee (West Bengal), Arvind Kejriwal (Delhi) and Pinarayi Vijayan (Kerala) were at the other end of the dais. Sonia and Rahul made their way around the dais, greeting the other leaders and spending a few minutes with each of them.
 
 The new Congress-JD(S) government has convened the Legislative Assembly session on 12.15pm, Friday to seek a vote of confidence.
 
