Thiruvananthapuram: Rechristened as ‘Vasantholsavam -2018’, the state tourism department’s annual   will be held on Kanakakkunnu Palace premises from January 7 to 14.

 Being organized after a gap of two years, the event will coincide with the first meeting of Loka Kerala Sabha, which is expected to bring in a large number of NRKs and families to the city.
 
 The preparations are almost complete and the flower show will feature more than 10,000 colourful blossoms and more than 30,000 plants, said DTPC secretary T V Prasanth, who is also the chief coordinator of the event. The entry will be free for children aged below five years, while Rs 15 will be charged for children aged between five to 12 years and Rs 40 for others.
 
 A family ticket (for father, mother and two children aged 5-12 years) will cost Rs 100 and that for school students (maximum of 50 students plus five school staff) will cost Rs 500. The tickets have been made available at the SBI branches at Aalthara, Kowdiar, Vazhuthakkad, Nandankode (LMS Compound) and Jawahar Nagar. Besides, tickets can be purchased online from www.vasantholsavamkerala.org and from SBI counters to be opened at the main gate of Kanakakkunnu.
 
 The event, which will have its highlight in three ‘concept layers’ including tribal life, medicinal plants and honey, will also feature competitions in various categories including floral arrangement, vegetable carving and bouquet. There will be separate competitions for individuals and professionals, and details can be had from   office (Phone: 9074495889, 9074495841) functioning at Kanakakkunnu.
 
 The show will have an audio-visual presentation of rare herbs and medicinal plants, besides showcasing extraction and processing of honey. In the flower show, around 35 nurseries from Thiruvananthapuram district alone will be taking part. The main participants include TBGRI (Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute), Kerala Agricultural University, KFRI, Malabar Botanical garden, Raj Bhavan, Assembly, VSSC and Chitranjali Studio.
 
 
