BIJNOR The high-octane campaign for the May 28 bypoll for Kairana Lok Sabha seat and   assembly seats were wrapped up by political parties on Saturday evening. The polling will take place on Monday amid high security as over 20 companies of paramilitary forces have been deployed to ensure free and fair polls. The polling in Kairana and Noorpur seats were necessitated after the death of their legislators. Kairan MP Hukum Singh died due to illness while Noorpur MLA Lokendra Singh was killed in a road accident.
 
  Grand Alliance candidate Tabassum   and BJP’s Mriganka Singh, the daughter of Hukum Singh, are locked in a fierce battle.
  
  Hasan, an RLD candidate, has got the support of SP, Congress and BSP. For the last ten days, both the parties were engaged in door-to-door campaign.
  
  In all, eight candidates are contesting bypoll from Noorpur seat. However, there is a straight fight between BJP and SP candidate.
  
  Around 14 lakh voters in Kairana and 3.06 lakh in Noorpur will decide the fate of candidates on May 28. Voting will start from 7am and end by 6pm.
  
  There are 351 booths in Noorpur area and one poling party has been deputed at each booth. There will be web-casting on 48 booths. A heavy police force will be deployed at poling centres. There are 48 vulnerable and 90 booths are critical in Noorpur.
  
  Giving details, chief development officer Bijnor, Indramani Tripathi, said, “We have made all preparations for the peaceful and fair poll which is slated for May 28. Police parties will leave on Sunday and they will reach booth by the evening.”
  
  The grand alliance claims that 5.80 lakh Muslims, 2.5 lakh Dalits and over 1.5 lakh Jats in Kairana, accounting for roughly 60% of the electorate, have been rallying behind the SP-RLD alliance.
  
  On the ground, BJP, fresh from drubbing in Gorakhpur and Phulpur, is on its toes over the new caste arithmetic where Kashyaps, Gujjars and others, dubbed to be BJP loyalists, comprise nearly 40% of the electorate.
  
  This time around, the grand alliance is trying to keep the flock together with RLD in attack mode over farm issues, especially the plight of cane farmers. The consistent attack has unsettled BJP with CM Yogi Adityanath trying to ward off some of the concerns during his first bypoll rally in Saharanpur on May 22
