VADODARA: After nearly 18 years, 16   at   at Salatwada will get a compensation of 1.78 lakh each.

 The victims had got their eyes operated at the Jalaram Chakshu Nidan Kendra of the hospital between 1995 and 2000 but after a few days they had lost their vision. They approached   through Jagrut Nagrik – a city-based voluntary consumer association and sought help to get compensation for the loss of eyes, mental trauma and legal expenses among others from the hospital,   which had insured all the doctors of the hospital for negligence and the concerned doctor who had operated the victims.
 
 The victims, who from the city and other villages in the district, included 11 men and five women between the age group of three years and 75 years.
 
 The victims, most of whom hail from poor families, had got their eyes operated for cataract after paying minimal fees of Rs 150 and Rs 250. In all the cases, the victims complained that after the operation, they developed pain in the operated eye. When they went to the hospital with the complaint, they learnt that the operation had failed because of infection as the doctors had used unsterilized equipment and had fixed non-standard lenses.
 
 The victims also told the forum that the staff at the hospital were not properly qualified and trained due to which the eyes were infected. They had to get their both eyes extracted out of fear that the infection would spread to the other eye as well resulting in loss of vision.
 
 After the notice was served to the opponents, the hospital argued in the court that it is registered under Public Trust Act and gives service to people who suffer from eye diseases and they only charges for lens and medicines and not for operation. The insurance company told the court that the victims lost their eyes because they had not taken proper treatment.
 
 The victims’ representative P V Moorjani later argued in response that the doctors had themselves confirmed about negligence which had led to infection forcing extraction of eyes. He also drew the court’s attention during the hearings that in June 2006, 112 operations of the cataract had failed in the same hospital after which the state government had even formed a committee which had concluded that there was negligence on the part of doctors and the nurses and staff was unqualified.
 
 The forum presided by K K Patel, upheld Moorjani’s arguments and on the basis Workman Compensation Act ordered the opponents to pay Rs 1.44 lakh with seven per cent interest from the date of registration of complaint, Rs 25,000 towards mental torture, Rs 4,000 towards miscellaneous expenses and Rs 5,000 towards cost of litigation.
 
 
