A herd of 101 baby elephants will be thundering around the city starting Sunday, decked in multi-coloured mirror work, floral prints, jade stones and brass work. Not real elephants, of course, but life-sized baby elephant statues, each painted and designed differently by known artists, designers and painters as an awareness campaign aimed at drawing attention to the plight of the endangered Asian elephant. 

 The art-based conservation project Elephant Parade was started by late Mark Shand, a British conservator and travel writer and currently under the patronage of his sister The Duchess of   (Camilla) and Prince of Wales (Prince Charles), as joint presidents.
 
  After successful exhibitions across the world - Milan, London, Singapore, Bangkok, California and Hong Kong – and having raised over 10 million pounds – for the first time Elephant Parade is coming home to the world’s largest population of Asian elephants on the planet – India. Funds raised from an auction of these elephant effigies are meant to secure 101 elephant corridors across key regions in India for the endangered breed. 
 
 The idea of bringing in this highly creative twist to help stop Asian elephants from being wiped out in the wild dates back to the time when Elephant Family’s original founder Mark Shand, travelled to India in the Eighties, looking for inspiration for a book and instead stumbled upon a “bag-of-bones begging elephant” in Bhubaneshwar. “He rescued her, fattened her up and journeyed with her from Bhubaneshwar to Sonepur and even learnt to be a mahout. After meeting people experiencing human-elephant conflicts, he realised that there wasn’t enough support. He wrote a book on it and then started the charity,” explained Ruth Ganesh, a trustee of Elephant Family, who joined forces with Shand in 2004 and has been at the forefront of the charity’s conservation initiative ever since. “That elephant is still alive. She’s called Tara and lives in Kipling Camp,” she informed. 
 
 When Shand returned to the west, all that people seemed to know at the mention of an elephant were ‘Africa’ and ‘poaching’, recalls Ruth. “Something we still face when we’re trying to explain internationally, that there is another elephant and the threat isn’t about poaching but habitat loss. It’s news to people. So the biggest thing we need to do is raise awareness that there are solutions and they can be funded.”
 
 What started as grass sculptures of elephants placed across London’s parks and street corners to forge an emotional connect between people and the gentle giant spawned a group of buyers wanting to take them home. “It was like bringing the mountain to Mohammed. These people live in a country where they don’t see elephants but wanted
 to help.” 
 
 Each elephant for this public art event started life as a blank sculpture. Artists, fashion designers, design institutes and tribal painters who were then invited to decorate
 them showed equal devotion to marrying their art with social responsibility. 
 
 Some of the creative minds behind the statues for Elephant Parade’s India debut, include fashion designers   whose elephant painted in exotic flowers and greens is called The Sundarbans, Abu Jani Sandeep Khosla’s elephant with mirror work is almost an optical illusion that is meant to be as kaleidoscopic as the changing country; Manish Malhotra’s oriental jade elephant carved from semi-precious green stone is meant to symbolise good fortune and Rohit Bal who has crafted a blue patron elephant called Neelkamal as a testament to his love for ‘thikri’ artwork from the Mughal era, cut and arranged by hand for over 300 hours. If artist Brinda Miller’s elephant with a feminine charm is named Rani and represents royalty and beauty; Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan will lend a poetic charm to his elephant adorned with his father’s poetry. The eclectic set of participants also includes French footwear magnate Christian Louboutin; heritage architect Abha Narain Lambah; royal families of Jodhpur and Jaipur, Rajasthan’s chief minister Vasundhara Raje and others. 
 
 The elephants will be herded from the Gateway of India to Worli Seaface, Bandra Fort and Carter Road over the next three weeks during which one can place an online bid. 
 
 “We’re working towards a 20 million pounds vision,” says Ruth whose charity is currently working on elephant conservation across six Asian countries with India as the stronghold, given that it is home to 27,312 Asian elephants out of a worldwide population of close to 50,000 as opposed to 2,50,000 Asian elephants across 13 countries at the turn of the century. They are clearly endangered and the colossal decline in their habitat, owes itself to railway accidents, electricity lines, factories and farms slicing up the remaining habitat.
 
 To ensure the long-term survival of this large and far-ranging animal, Elephant Family is working in partnership with Wildlife Trust of India to build the elephant corridors. Like bridges between islands, these pathways will allow elephants to move freely and get from one forest feeding ground to the next.
 
  Till date, Elephant Family has funded five corridors in India – one in Kerala with a population of 6500 elephants and four in Assam with 1400 – which has involved voluntary relocation of rural farming communities; fresh agricultural land for the affected communities and new homes.
 
  Ruth is hoping that the elephants dotting Mumbai will encourage corporates to relocate their mandatory CSR spend of 2% on pachyderms and impress on politicians their need to play a role. “If you save an elephant you save an entire ecosystem. And that’s why we’re in a city with a special reverence for elephants,” she smiled.
 
