CENTURION: It wasn't an easy Tuesday morning to watch cricket at the SuperSport Park. Being a weekday, the otherwise boisterous weekend crowd had disappeared. And gone with them was the vivacity that had spruced up this charming Test venue the first two days.

 
 
 The relative silence, accompanied with  's painstaking 198-minute 61 was good enough to put the handful of spectators to sleep. Even South African supporters began catching a wink when AB de Villers wasn't at the batting end. A band of local musicians who had kept the proceedings lively all along also took a break.
 
 
 
 
 
 On the ground, on the television, inside the dressing rooms, almost everywhere, everybody began falling to the lure of the lull. Play, blink, miss, blink, play - Elgar went on. Insipid right from the soul, the wicket lacked the cricketing demon any attack would've expected to pray to on a Day Four build-up to a Test match.
 
 The session wasn't without its share of threats. But very un-South Africa like. It was the lack of bounce that batsmen remained wary of but the odd one never slipped in. Once in a while came the loose one and AB promptly punished it. Elgar kept struggling. Shoulders dropped. Here's where India's attack can walk away with a bit of credit for the day.
 
 On a wicket that offered nothing, India took advantage of whatever little that came their way.   making that extra bit of effort to send in a shorter one to AB, and in turn the batsman's glove nicked it to the wicket-keeper. For the first time, India managed to put a foot forward. Elgar departed soon enough too.
 
 The eventuality of South Africa's second innings could've been a different story, if not for a case of near misses. Faf du Plessis, for instance, stretching to Ashwin and edging it a little too away from the fielder, was one. There would be many later, potential catches slipping through fielders,   once again letting himself down behind the stumps and on other occasions, the ball passing by a little too far away from him.
 
 The bowlers, let down as they were, remained stubborn. Shami, in particular, was impressive as he kept at it, hitting the surface hard and extracting bounce. If the first session went to South Africa, the second between lunch and tea seeped stillness into the proceedings. To put it in numbers, a mere 13 runs were scored in 12 overs in a phase. Shami's hard work was complimented well at the other end.  , in an effort to gain that extra bounce, ran in ball after ball and gave his rolling arm that extra punch.
 
 South Africa's clear idea was to consume time and India had to do something outside of what Ashwin had been working on. India bowled a total of 61.3 overs on Day Four to SA, of which Ashwin bowled 29.3. The pacers bowled the remaining 31 and shared nine wickets between them.
 
 Bumrah, with 20-3, was the pick. 
 
