RANCHI: As per the data of the 4th National Family Health Survey,   figures in the top three states plagued by the curse of child marriage including   and   with 38% of the total marriages in the state involving an under-age spouse. Not less than 27 lakh child marriages has taken place in Jharkhand after the state's formation in 2000. This issue was focused at a seminar organized on the topic by   (CINI) on Sunday.

 Urban development minister C P Singh was present at the seminar which was organized to seek the state's action plan against child marriage. Singh expressed his concern on the issue that has been on the back burner for long. He said, "The participation of people is necessary to eliminate the evil. The government alone cannot bring around a change and solve a problem like child marriage that is deep rooted in our society. People's participation is extremely necessary and it is the responsibility of the society as a whole to eradicate a problem like this."
 
 Godda, with 63.5% child marriages, featured on the top of the list of districts in the state with a high number of child marriages. Linking the problem with other causes like migration and lack of opportunities in field of jobs and education,   said, "  has been tagged as one of the 100 most backward districts of the nation due to the lack of employment. This leads to rapid migration and a high drop-out rate in the schools. The issue of child marriage can only be solved if the economic condition of the district is improved. We are looking forward to the setting up of the Adani plant to improve the situation in the constituency so that we could reduce the incidence of child marriage by 2020."
 
 Speakers at the seminar also mulled on how the literacy rate in various districts could be directly linked with the percentage of child marriages. While Godda, Garwha and Deoghar, all with higher percentages of child marriages have literacy rates of 42.5%, 51% and 52.7% respectively, literacy rates of the districts with low child marriage rates have much higher literacy rates. The issue of child marriage was also linked to higher maternal mortality rate, infant mortality rate and incidences of sexual assault on young girls in the seminar.
 
 The speakers also contemplated on the use of proper media channels to propagate awareness about the vices of child marriage in the state. "The state's action plan against child marriage should include the proper use of media. Child marriage is prevalent in social set ups where it is an accepted practice and we need to attack the mindset that allows this practice," Mandal said. He added, "We need to understand that these people don't read newspapers and we need mediums like radio and street plays to reach out to them. "
 
 
