KOCHI: With the special investigation team (SIT) probing the custodial death of   S R deciding to include murder charge in the case, the investigation now hinges on identifying the policemen who tortured him leading to his death.

 The moot question at the heart of the case is who bears the responsibility for Sreejith’s death—the Rural Tiger Force ( ) cops who picked him up from his home or the policemen at the station?
 
 As per medical reports, the injuries on Sreejith were at least 24-36 hours old when he was admitted to a private hospital in the city. However, the time when Sreejith got fatally injured is yet to be identified. Official sources said when he was brought to the hospital Sreejith was complaining of inability to urinate and abdominal pain.
 
 “From the doctor’s perspective, the injuries sustained by the youth were 24-36 hours old. However, we have not been able to know the exact time of infliction of the injuries. Hospital records show the infection had already spread when he was brought in,” said a source.
 
 Meanwhile, the SIT on Saturday collected statements of  , son of   who had sustained injuries when a group allegedly attacked his house. Vasudevan committed suicide after the attack took place.
 
 The police officers who took Sreejith into custody were also questioned again on Saturday. It has been learnt that Vineesh repeated his earlier statement that he was not sure whether Sreejith was among those who targeted the house.
 
 He said the police are yet to arrest the main accused in the case. Vineesh reiterated that it was one Thulasidas who is also known as Sreejith, who had personal grudges against him and that it was against him that he filed a complaint.
 
 “The arrest of the main accused will bring more clarity on the attack on the house. Thulasidas and three others—Vipin, Vinju and Ajith—are those who attacked our house. If the police take them into custody we would also know whether Sreejith was with them,” said Vasanthi, Vasudevan’s relative.
 
 State human rights commission acting chairman   said he talked with the two doctors at the private hospital and checked the documents at the   hospital.
 
 “The report from the North Paravur hospital only mentions assault. If Sreejith had perforation in the intestine then he would have shown signs that he was in pain and the hospital authorities would have recorded it. My inference is that the injury worsened after he was taken from the taluk hospital,” said the acting chairman adding that the injury happened while in police custody.
 
