TRICHY: Political outfits as well as sections of the common public mobilised by them stormed the office of the urban local body here on Tuesday, the last date to express views and grievance on the proposed delimitation of the city corporation wards. The petitioners demanded that the corporation not merge parts of the existing ward 40 with 56 as part of the re-demarcation of all 65 wards of the corporation. 

 However, some others claimed that the delimitation of wards would pave the way for the development of the least-developed wards and added that the resistance was shown only at the behest of a few political parties. The corporation had on December 27 last year invited public and political parties to check the re-demarcated particulars of 167.23 sq km area of the city and express their opinions before January 2. Political outfits including   and CPI had expressed their dissatisfaction at the short notice given to go through the delimitation. With Tuesday being the last day to submit the grievances on re-demarcation of 65 wards here, people numbering at least 100, mostly mobilised by political outfits, thronged the corporation’s main office at Cantonment opposing the re-demarcation of ward number 40. “The proposed delimitation of ward number 40 into wards 56 and 57 would create unwarranted trouble as people living in adjoining streets will have different elected representatives. We oppose the move,”  , former DMK councillor, said.
 
 Contradicting his claims, a few former councillors of the corporation claimed that the resistance, including from DMK and a few from AIADMK, was politically motivated. “Pransina Colony, EB Colony, and MGR Nagar near E Pudur, now falling under ward number 40 based on the delimitation, would go to ward number 56. This re-demarcation will not affect the people, but the realignment will facilitate more attention for the localities here while implementing development projects,” O Balasubramanian, former councillor, Revolutionary Marxist Party of India, said. Even representatives of   resisted the re-demarcation of ward number 40. However, a few former councillors also said that the resistance was a political stunt by these former elected representatives to assert their presence.   officials said that the grievances would be passed on to their headquarters in Chennai. 
 
 A provision to view the re-demarcation online would have helped the political parties to get a clear picture of the delimitation, they said .
 
 
