PUNE: Two new species of mosquitoes —   and Culex — are troubling people living along the stretches of Mula and Mutha here and Pavana and Indrayani rivers in   these days.

 These mosquitoes are not the types that cause vector-borne diseases such as dengue, chikungunya and malaria. However, Culex can cause filaria and Armigeres a lot of buzz and bite. 
  
  
 Entomologists blame the rampant growth of water hyacinth in the rivers for the breeding of the two species of mosquitoes. The larvae of Armigerous and Culex grow in pools with dirty water or with high organic content. 
 
 “Armigeres is a non-disease transmitting mosquito, but its bites are painful. The bites can cause small red welts on a child’s skin, besides the usual itching. As for Culex, it is a vector for filaria. We have asked health officials of both the civic bodies to take measures in areas with hyacinth growth to curb the mosquito breeding,” said  , an entomologist in the health department. 
 
 The water hyacinth provides an ideal setting for both mosquito species to breed. “They breed and lay eggs in the gaps between the hyacinth. The gaps are created when the weed grows in weight and leads to water stagnation,” Deshpande said.
 
 Health officials carried out a mosquito density study in areas under ward offices of Yerawada, Ghole road, Kasba Peth, Nagar Road and   between February 20 and March 5. “We found a significant increase in the density of Culex and Armigeres, especially in areas closer to water bodies with high hyacinth growth,” he said.
 
 People living in Bopodi-Aundh and Wakadewadi are a hassled lot. “The Mula flowing through the Bopodi-Aundh area is covered with water hyacinth,” said Niranjan Naik, a resident of Bhau Patil Road in Bopodi.
 
 Civic officials said most of the mosquitoes found are merely “nuisance mosquitoes” and not the ones that transmit diseases. 
 
 Kalpana Baliwant, head of the insect control department in the Pune civic body, said, “We have started removing hyacinth at two lakes in Katraj and also in   lake. Similar work is also on in the Mula, Mutha and the Ramnadi.”
 
 Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation additional commissioner Dilip Gawade said they too have started removing water hyacinth in the Mula and Indrayani that flow through the city and have prominent cover of the weed compared to the Pavana. “Treating waste water before releasing it into river is the solution to check the growth of the weed,” he said.
 
 
