Visakhapatnam: Around one in 1,000 persons suffer from aortic dissection or tear and with an   tear that ran from the chest to the pelvic region, 62-year-old businessman from Kolkata, Jaydev Guha, suffered from a condition that only 15% of the 1 in 1,000 with aorta tear face. Guha’s condition was so severe that he was having trouble breathing, chest pain, kidney malfunction and faced a possibility of amputation as blood supply to a few areas was disrupted. Doctors of Visakhapatnam, however, battled death and saved Guha’s life.

 Following a life-saving, complex and rare  , lasting for over 10 hours, which was done in two stages comprising aortic de-branching through grafting and endovascular aortic repair of the thoracic aorta the patient was kept under observation for almost a fortnight. Guha is now able to walk and is ready to go back to his normal life. The procedure was undertaken in April-end. 
 
 It was mid April when Guha suffered an attack and had to be rushed to a hospital in Kolkata. Diagnosed with a severe aortic dissection, the doctors had given up hope saying that he will never be able to lead a normal life again. Refusing to give up, his family then flew the sextagenerian to Visakhapatnam after consulting a doctor from the Port City. Guha was then admitted to the Seven Hills hospital, where he underwent a two-day operation.
 
 Dr Siba Sankar Dalai, senior interventional neuro-radiologist at Seven Hills Hospital, where the surgery was conducted, said, “The operation was conducted in two days lasting for six hours and four-and-a-half hours respectively. In the first part, the three blood vessels (right brachio-cephalic artery, left carotid artery and left sub-clavian artery) were disconnected from the aorta and were connected to three PTFE (polytetrafluoroethylene) grafts (artificial tubes compatible to the body) thereby bypassing the blood supply to the three parts (to the brain and right and left limbs). The de-branching from the aorta was required for two reasons because the tear was extending escalating chances of stroke. Also, to reconstruct and repair the aorta (second part of the surgery), space was needed.”
 
 Besides Dr Dalai, Dr Karunakar Padhy, senior consultant cardiothoracic surgeon, too, operated on the patient. The peri-operative phase was managed by nephrologist Dr Ravi Shankar, chief intensivisit Dr Kuchela Babum, cardiologist Dr M N Raju, physician Dr Sameer Kumar Panda, ENT Dr Surendra Y Lele, psychiatrist Dr S Anuradha and physiotherapist Dr Vinod.
 
 Overjoyed with the success, family members now await his discharge.
 
 
