NAGPUR: For  , the 29-year old transgender woman from the city, it was a dream come true as she was selected to act as a member judge at Lok Adalat.

 She is part of the 10-day pre-discussion talks of the mediating panel to resolve issues between parties at   to be held in the city on February 10.
 
 Kamble became the first transgender Lok Aadalat judge in Maharashtra and probably the fourth in the country. The initiative was undertaken by  , secretary of District Legal Service Authority, with an aim to include the transgender community into the mainstream.
 
 Coming from a middle class background, Kamble, a std XII dropout, had to part ways with her family due to her sexual orientation at the age of 17. Facing various ordeals, Kamble was later introduced to the transgender society and Sarthi Trust, which she claims as her home now.
 
 Currently working as a counsellor and pre-educator at Sarthi Trust, Kamble said mediation is one of her strong features. “My family abandoned me, but I found a new family which is not judgmental. It is one of the primary reasons why I sit on this esteemed chair today. Every day, I meet individuals who are troubled and understanding their issues and helping them get out of it is my main job. Hence, I am able to work for reconciliation between parties and solve their matters.”
 
 As part of the pre-discussion talks, Kamble handles issues related to Motor Acts Claim Tribunal and mediates around 3-4 cases every day. On being questioned about her mediation, she said, “We try to bring out a compromise between the parties and help them understand the legal aspect of the entire proceedings.”
 
 Jadhav told TOI, “The initiative is an act of acceptance of the transgenders within the general public. The entire crux of the legal system is to be fair and provide equal opportunities to all and we are doing the same. We wanted to provide a platform to the neglected communities to help the society and Kamble passed all the eligibility criteria with flying colours.”
 
 Kamble’s co-panel members VS Murkute, retired district judge, and lawyer  , too expressed their happiness over the step. Murkute said such opportunities promote inclusion of the community in the conventional society and sensitizes the public regarding the issue. Deshpande said the measure will act as a morale boost for the transgenders and other communities.
 
 Jadhav added that DLSA will include more transgenders as panel members on the day of Lok Adalat and attempts are on to include HIV+ social workers and others as well.
 
 
