Ever since mixed-doubles badminton partners from England,   and  , got married in 2013 and decided to extend their partnership off the court as well, they have been in the limelight. But apart from being the not-so-usual badminton partners, over the years, they have also become one of the most formidable mixed-doubles pair in international badminton. In 2014, they became the first-ever husband and wife to win the mixed-doubles title in the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. But that was just the beginning of their fruitful partnership on and off the court as they went on to win other titles, including World Super Series 2015 and 2017 European Badminton Championships. The duo, who is part of   in the ongoing  , talks to us before their maiden match in Chennai this weekend.

 
 
 Gabby: More than half the year, we play badminton and travel abroad for different tourneys. In that case, players generally miss their spouses. Since we play together, we are always together. That’s a big plus. Also, the fact that we know each other inside-out helps us on court. I think in a doubles partnership, that trust is really important. We have known each other since we were 15 years old, trained together, then started living together. So, travelling with him and being with him 24X7… I don’t find any difference on and off the court.
 Chris: We find it quite normal to be spouses and doubles partners. It may not look the same for others. We love what we do — playing badminton, travelling and being together.
 
 
 Gabby: We are very fortunate that we get to play together. And it’s such a good feeling to win tournaments together and we are happy to share those big moments together.
 Chris: It is always nice to win with whoever you play and when it is with Gabby, it’s even more special to me.
 
 
 Gabby: We have an amazing team. We hope that we can repeat what we did last year — to win the league — again. We are part of such a fun team and they are like family to us.
 Chris: For me, this is the third year with the Chennai team. Being the champions last year has been the highlight so far. Hopefully, this year, we make it to the semifinals and from then on take it one game at a time.
 
 
 Gabby: The calendar looks absolutely packed with the European Championship, the Commonwealth Games, the World Championships, etc. Managing body and keeping myself mentally fresh is the key to peak in every tournament. For us, 2017 had been phenomenal and we look back at it with fond memories. We are really hoping that 2018 will be better. 
 Chris: I am hoping that we take off well this year with the Chennai team and do well in the following championships as well.
 
 
 Gabby: Taj Mahal is something that we look forward to seeing. Then, the Red Fort…
 Chris: As we are here for the league now, the focus is to stay in good shape and give our best in the league. But when time permits, we would love to go and see Taj Mahal and I am sure it’s going to be something special.
 
 
 Chris: Badminton is a big part of our lives. Anything outside is just chilling out with friends and family. We always have a hectic schedule and away from home most of the time. So, when we aren’t playing, just being at home and doing nothing is the best way to unwind.
 Gabby: Also, we have a pup back home. So, taking him out for a walk helps us switch off from everything else during a break.
 
 
 Gabby: The fact that we are partners on and off the court is the reason for the kind of fan following we are getting. Also, they have been seeing us since the time we were juniors and then through our career as seniors, and watching our improvement and success over the years. 
 Chris: It’s really nice to have a good fan following here as badminton is more popular in Asia than in Europe. Now, we are really excited about playing in Chennai for the first time. After all, there’s nothing like getting support from the home crowd.
 Gabby: I am sure that it’s going to be some amazing, crazy fans in Chennai. Especially, we love playing in front of big crowd that appreciate the sport. The last time we came to Chennai, two weeks ago for the promotions, we did the Lungi Dance, and that was so much fun. We got a lot of comments on social media for that and our families found it quite hilarious.
 
