KOLKATA: Even as you get ready for a splash of colours on  , make sure you don’t end up hurting your eyes or damaging your skin. More than half of the colours — including abir — available in the market are synthetic, toxic and injurious that could cause irreversible damage. From skin rashes, eczema, loss of hair and itching to eye infection that can lead to temporary loss of vision, unsafe colours could be dangerous, warn experts.

 
 “Artificial colours are often laced with mica particles to add shine. This is harmful since the particles are abrasive and cause skin rashes and injury. They can scratch the cornea and cause partial blindness, which is very common post  . Lead is even more harmful for it is toxic and you can’t get rid of it once it gets into your system,” said Angshuman  , consultant at Disha Eye Hospitals.
 
 
  
 
 Natural colours made from flowers, turmeric, besan and indigo extracts are safer, advised experts. These can be easily made at home and offer a safer option as compared to synthetic colours. Unlike the synthetic ones, these will cause no permanent harm, said Arindam Biswas, consultant at RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS). “Artificial colours can cause severe dermatitis, even conjunctivitis. They increase photosensitivity of the skin and cause bacterial infection, eventually leading to hair loss. Often, the damage occurs slowly so the dangers are not attributed to the colours,” said Biswas.
 
 
 But an eye injury could be the most scary and traumatic, felt Goswami. About a fourth of all those who play with colours end up hurting their eyes in some way. “The most common is corneal abrasion that can affect vision. It can be reversed but often, partial loss of vision can’t be corrected. Natural or herbal colours, too, could cause harm if used in the wrong way. It is a common practice to grab a person from behind and smear colours on the face. This often results in grievous eye injuries. If a lump of abir is thrust into the eyes, the cornea could be damaged,” said Goswami.
 
 
 But most injures caused by synthetic colours are reversible, point out experts. “Chemicals cause fleeting blindness or injuries that are reversible if treated quickly. Apply coconut oil around your eyes to prevent colours from getting into them. It will also be easier to wash off the colours. But it is always safer to stick to herbal colours and avoid the cheaper, spurious ones,” said  , consultant at AMRI Hospital.
 
