BENGALURU: As the election scene hots up,   seem to be facing the heat. They claim their vehicles are being taken away for   at the cost of their business.

 The Election Commission (EC) has estimated that it requires at least 80,000 vehicles, including buses, minibuses and cars, while the authorities are able to procure only 40,000, mainly from government departments. With more half the requirement unfulfilled, EC, as usual, is looking at hiring vehicles from private operators. 
  
  
 Private operators, however, are crying foul as both EC and the state government have turned a deaf ear to their plea to increase hiring charges. “Today’s situation can’t be viewed from the perspective of previous elections since much has changed. For instance, prices of petrol and diesel are being revised daily and have been on an upward spiral. We feel that hiring charges should be fixed keeping the changing situation in mind,” said  , president, Karnataka State Private Transport Owners Association. 
 
 Last month, EC increased the charges fixed for 2013 elections by 16% . A stakeholder said private operators had sought a 50% hike, considering the current fuel cost and increased prices of other commodities.
 
 Siddaramu pointed out that the rates fixed by government authorities were for a 24-hour duration vehicle owners levy charges for eight hours as per the market standard. For instance, the owner of a maxi cab charges Rs 3,000 for eight hours and the customer has to pay a bonus to the driver separately. As per the hiring charges fixed for election duty, the maxi cab owner gets only Rs 2,950 for 24 hours and the driver gets no incentive.
 
 “While the increased rental rates make our business unviable, the bigger issue is that the government takes its own sweet time to clear the bill,” said K Srikumar Gupta, owner of a travel agency in Koramangala.
 
 While EC hires big vehicles for two days (May 11 and 12; the latter being polling day), it hires cars for 40 days.“While the commission has given the responsibility of looking into vehicle requirement to the transport department, we have put in place a system to hire vehicles at the district level under supervision of the deputy commissioner,” said a senior transport official.
 
 The grouse of vehicle owners, however, is that transport officials are stopping their vehicles abruptly and taking them away.
 
 
 
 
 Denying the allegation, L Hemanth Kumar, joint commissioner for transport (administration), said private vehicles are being hired through a tender process and no vehicle has been taken off the road. “Officials may stop government vehicles on the road and take them away, but not private ones. If there are instances of private vehicles being stopped on the road, let the owners lodge complaints and we will look into the matter,” said Kumar.
 
 
