CHENNAI: Arrested by the city police on Wednesday for the murder of his 74-year-old mother on Tuesday night, a 34-year-old man who police described as a porn and drug addict shocked investigators by revealing that he had killed his elderly father too — only four days before stabbing his mother.

 Officers probing the case said  , of   near  , surrendered to Naravarikuppam village administrative officer   at noon on Wednesday after learning that police were searching for him in the slaying of his mother  . Twice divorced because of his obsession with pornography,   stabbed his mother in the neck with a penknife after an argument in which he accused her of stalling his attempts to get married a third time, an investigating officer said.
 
 “When we interrogated Murugan, he readily admitted that he had killed his mother,” the officer said. 
 
 “Then he stunned us by calmly stating that he had strangled his father Venu, 84, last Friday, after the elderly man rebuked him for demanding money for drugs instead of holding down a regular job.”
 
 Investigators found that Venu did indeed die on January 19. His family conducted the last rites, cremating the body soon after. Murugan’s mother Lakshmi knew the cause of death but covered up for her son, claiming that her husband died of injuries after he slipped and fell in a bathroom, the officer said.
 
 Lakshmi did not have to keep the gruesome secret for long. Murugan’s elder brother Kumar found her dead in suspicious circumstances when he arrived with breakfast for his mother on Wednesday morning. The elderly woman had a deep injury to the neck but there was no blood near the body.
 
 Kumar lodged a police complaint in which he stated that Murugan had gone missing. A police team searching for Murugan soon found witnesses who said Murugan had been drinking at a bar in the locality. They then discovered that he had surrendered to the village administrative officer.
 
 The Red Hills police arrested Murugan and charged him with the murder of his mother.
 
 “During questioning, Murugan said he mopped up blood from the floor and washed his mother’s wound after the murder,” the officer said. “There will be no probe of Venu’s death because his cremation leaves us with no evidence.”
 
 
