CHANDIGARH: To improve   conditions in the state,   will launch a month-long special drive from June 1, 2018 to strictly deal with traffic violators, especially the motorists without helmets, on the national highways in the state.

 Those men or women motorists, who would ride a two-wheeler without a helmet, including pillion-riders and triple riders, would face challans, including suspension of their driving licenses under the provisions of Motor Vehicles Act. Apart from this, the police will also lay special emphasis on penalizing triple riding, which it considered as one of the main causes of fatal accidents.
 
 The police department spokesperson said 24 traffic police stations had been set up to regulate traffic in the state. He said six new traffic police stations would soon come up in the state’s jurisdiction on Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) and Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal (KGP) highways, and one each in Sonipat, Jhajjar, Gurgaon, Mewat, Palwal and Faridabad districts to regulate traffic on the expressway.
 
 He said the deputy inspector general (traffic)   had directed all the traffic in-charges to spread awareness about traffic norms and ensure strict enforcement of rules to regulate traffic. “Our sole aim is to make people use helmets for their safety and not because the police is forcing it upon them or to escape from fine or challans,” he added.
 
 He said the police would also make sure the documentation of traffic offences in the form of photographs and videography to be presented to the Punjab and   high court as evidence and to ensure strict legal action. The DIG urged the motorists, especially the women motorists, to always wear helmet, follow the prescribed speed limit on the road and abide by the traffic rules for a safe journey.
 
 He said as many as 11,88,562 challans had been issued for all kind of   from January 1, 2018 to May 27, 2018. In addition, police had issued challans to 2,93,286 male motorists and 5,968 female motorists for riding two-wheelers without helmet.
 
 
