

  
 TV’s Rajni_Kant, Ridhima Pandit, who played a humanoid on 'Bahu Humari Rajni_Kant', will return to the fiction genre after a hosting stint on 'Dance Champions'. She will play herself on the show, 'Deewane Anjane'. Ridhima will enter the show to grace the Republic Day event hosted at LK’s (Gaurav Sharma) grandmother’s dhaba. She has been invited by LK to add glamour to the event and get good publicity for the dhaba.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Singer Hard Kaur has done a rap rendition for the show, 'Detective Didi'. The song will narrate how Bunty Sharma aka 'Detective Didi' ( ) gears up to fight against crime and deliver justice to the innocent. The lyrics of the song is 'Chandni Chowk Ka Bacha-Baccha…Karein Full-On Taareef Iski …Sab Kehte Hai Supergirl Isse...Mohalle Mein Tashan Hai Iski…Detective Didi'. Sonia tells us, “I am glad that Hard Kaur has rapped the title track for the show. Just like my character Bunty, she has been unique in her songs and real life and so, it’s perfect that she has lent her voice for the track. I feel fortunate also because I have never seen a rap song being the title track of a TV show.”
 
 
 
 
 Supriya Pilgaonkar is all set to join the show, 'Mere Sai', featuring Abeer Soofi, Toral Rasputra and Vaibhav Maangle. Interestingly, the actress herself expressed the desire to become a part of the show during a chance meeting with the makers. She will essay a troubled mother who is going through hardships, but finds solace and happiness with the support and teachings of Sai Baba. She says, “Though I have a spiritual guru, I also believe in Sai baba and his teachings. I can totally relate to the character.”
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Actress Kanika Mann will soon join the cast of Deepti Kalwani's ' ', which will mark her debut on television. Her look will be inspired by Kangana Ranaut's athlete look from Tanu Weds Manu Returns. She says, “I will play Titli, who is a tomboy. I have been sent to Lakha’s home to learn all the feminine gestures. The show is set in Haryana. The language wasn’t a problem since I am from Panipat. Also, I have stayed with my grandparents with whom I used to speak in Hariyanvi.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 After playing the vamp in 'Naagin', Sudha Chandran continues her affair with the fantasy genre. However, this time around, it will be her voice that will wreak havoc in the protagonist’s life. She will lend her voice to the kids’ fantasy show, 'Rudra Ke Rakshak'. Keeping in mind her distinctive voice texture, she has been chosen for the new character — Spider Queen. The actress says, “Throughout my career, I have chosen roles that are not only challenging, but unique at the same time. Being the voice behind a spider itself sounds different and hence, I am excited about this project.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Aashika Bhatia, who was last seen on 'Swabhiman', will soon join the show 'Vani Rani'. She will be seen essaying the role of 19-year-old Bidisha, a soft-spoken and polite girl, who will enter the Agnihotri house on the prayer meeting of Prakash Agnihotri (Vani’s husband). She will claim to be the second wife of Prakash, who is already married to Tanvi Azmi on the show.
 About playing wife to a middle-aged guy, Aashika says, “Well, the only similarity between my character and me is the age. However, I don't relate to the idea of being married to a 50-year-old at 18. It's a challenging role and probably the first time, I am attempting something like this.”
 
 
