THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The  , which is striving to better its track record in Swachh Survekshan survey in the present edition, continues to battle a slew of factors that might work against the civic body.

 The bulk weightage of marks is being assessed in service level progress and citizen feedback each carrying 35%. Service level progress involves collection and verification of data from municipal body and interactions with officials. The means of verification under the head collection and transportation is mostly centred on centralized waste treatment facility which hardly matches corporation’s home composting scheme.
 
 The officials are at a loss trying to document criteria like percentage coverage of area under door to door collection system, percentage of collected waste transported to processing unit for disposal within the same day, placement of compartmentalized bins or twin bins at every 500m in commercial areas and emptied daily (as per SWM Rules 2016), GPS/RFID-based vehicle tracking and transformation of garbage vulnerable points (GVPs).
 
 The health wing has adapted to such criteria by stressing on dry waste collection. “For Trivandrum, collection of dry waste has been one of its highlights. We give the inputs focusing on our dry waste collection drives under door to door collection. There is no denying that a criterion centred on common waste treatment facility cannot apply to corporation, but we are trying to exhibit our strengths,” said a project official.
 
 As regarding transformation of GVPs, corporation had extensively conducted a campaign to identify some of the dumping spots and beautify them and transform them into gardens. The civic body has also smartly turned aerobic bins into recreation and relaxation spots keeping in view one assessment point; percentage of city parks and gardens (maintained by government/public department) practising on-site composting of garden waste.
 
 Sale of city compost and remediation of dumpsites under processing and disposal also pose challenge for corporation. In terms of toilets, recertification process, which will be done by Swachh Survekshan team, will be key to ranking corporation’s ODF status. However the city is likely to lose out on points like application of information and communication technology to give feedback about the functionality of toilets.
 
 The city corporation, which could only garner 224 out of 600 marks in citizen feedback in Swachh Survekshan survey 2017, is now aggressively pushing for citizen feedback. However the officials are sceptical regarding one criterion which talks about download of Swachhata mobile app. More than 10% households of total population need to download the app to get the maximum score of 150, a highly improbable task according to corporation officials. They are also concerned about public response to quality of toilets and percentage of complaint resolution which also carry meaty percentage of marks.
 
 The newly introduced star rating protocol by Union ministry to be declared as garbage-free city might also not go in favour of corporation. It focuses on door-to-door collection, citizen grievance redressal, bulk waste generator complianc e etc. Officials are pinning hopes on other factors like plastic ban, visible beautification and sweeping of public, commercial and residential areas.
 
 
