PANAJI: Members of   gram sabha demanded exclusion of their village from the jurisdiction of   (GPPDA), as development in the eco-fragile area would affect its natural resources.

 At a gram sabha chaired by sarpanch Chandrakant Kunkolkar on Sunday, the members were not convinced by town and country planning ( ) minister Vijai Sardesai’s statement about dropping of 10 villages from the PDA. The villagers are still awaiting notification in an official gazette of the exclusion of 10 villages from the planning area. But members pointed out that a part of the   plateau forms part of Chimbel. 
 
 They voiced their concern that development in the area would destroy hills which store water and cause other problems.
 
 In another resolution, the members also opposed the information technology park at Chimbel, as it would affect the natural resources in the area. One of them is the lake, which supplied water to Panaji during the Portuguese era. Agricultural resources in the area would be affected, too. 
 
 The process of evaluating village biodiversity resources is still in progress, members said.
 
 The sarpanch said that the panchayat had not been informed about the IT project. But villagers pressed that the panchayat must write to the IT department before the tender for the project is issued. Or the panchayat should resort to legal options to challenge the government decision.
 
 While the sarpanch agreed to it, another issue of the village waste being taken to   garbage plant was also discussed. The panchayat is in talks with Saligao authorities, but villagers even suggested an alternative plan of treating the waste at local level and charging a small fee to villagers for it.
 
 The members brought up the issue of flooding in the subway on Old Goa-Panaji bypass. They protested against the move to drain off the water into Chimbel village instead of a colony nearby.
 
 The villagers are still awaiting notification in an official gazette of the exclusion of 10 villages from the planning area
 
 
