CHENNAI: The city corporation has been dragging its feet on a vigilance report indicting   legislator M Subramanian of “fraudulently” possessing SIDCO land on which he built a two-storey house without an approved plan.

 The August 2016 report, accessed by TOI, recommends legal action against Subramanian (mayor in 2006-2011) and calls for demolishing the residence in Labour Colony, Ekkattuthangal. Corporation special officer/commissioner D   told TOI they “sent a note to the government” and were awaiting instructions.
 
 The report says labour tenements 3 and 4 were allotted to   and S K Kannan in 1966 and 1959. In May 1998, Kannan sent a letter to SIDCO seeking to transfer tenement 4 to his “only daughter” S Kanchana (Subramanian's wife). “As proof, (Kannan) submitted a copy of ration card of M Subramanian issued for 1993-1998.”
 
 TOI has a copy of the ration card showing S K Kannan as Subramanian’s father-in-law, but in Subramanian’s updated ration for 2005-2009, Kannan’s name is absent. Revenue department documents, accessed by TOI, show Kannan, who died in October 2015, had six children but none of them named Kanchana.
 
 However, based on Kannan’s letter, SIDCO issued a demand letter in Kanchana’s name without verification allowing Subramanian to begin construction, the report said. As mayor, Subramanian ensured his house was assessed for property tax.
 
 “...corporation officials assessed the tax without relevant documents required for assessment,” the report said. The house, with 4,500 sq ft built-up area, in Subramanian’s 2016 assembly poll nomination papers, is declared an immoveable asset in his wife's name.
 
 Subramanian says he is only a tenant on SIDCO land. “... there are over 250 tenants in the neighbourhood who have a lease-cum-sale deed agreement with SIDCO. There is a 1997 Housing and Urban Development department GO which assures SIDCO land for long term occupants. I am waiting for allotment,” he told TOI.
 
 He admitted the tenements were bought from SK Kannan, “a distant relative”, and that plan approval was not obtained because it was not insisted upon as much in the 1990s.
 
 B Srinivasan, ex-councillor of ward 116, first questioned legality of Subramanian’s residence in 2014 and mayor   initiated the vigilance inquiry. The report was compiled when Duraisamy was mayor, but he said, “I never received it on my table before my term ended (in October 2016).”
 
