BENGALURU: All eyes will be on   on Monday as the constituency goes to polls, with  , JD(S) and   locked in a triangular battle. Polling will be held between 7am and 6pm. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has declared a holiday on Monday in the constituency to ensure all 4,71,459 voters exercise their franchise. Fourteen candidates, including four independents, are in the fray.

 
 Voting in   was rescheduled for May 28 after 9,567 electoral photo identity cards (EPIC) were found in a flat in Jalahalli on May 9, three days before the state went to polls. Congress candidate and sitting MLA N Muniratna is an accused in the case.
 
 The constituency is witnessing a ‘friendly fight’ between the new alliance partners the Congress and JD(S), as talks between the allies over seat sharing in the segment failed. The BJP which has fielded Tulasi Muniraju Gowda as its candidate is trying hard to wrest the seat from Congress. Former BJP corporator GH Ramachandra, who switched sides just before the announcement of polls, is the JD(S) candidate.
 
 “Although the outcome is inconsequential as it won’t alter the equation in the assembly, the RR Nagar poll will be being keenly watched as it’d test the tenacity of the new-found bonhomie between Congress and JD(S),” said MB Adinarayana, a political tracker. Top leaders, including JD(S) supremo HD  , BJP state president BS Yeddyurappa, and Congress MP DK Suresh led poll campaigns in the segment.
 
 The constituency witnessed some tense moments on Sunday, with BJP activists staging a protest demanding Muniratna be arrested. The Congress on its part claimed that Muniraju Gowda has a non-bailable arrest warrant against him in a case related to damaging public property during a protest against bus fare hikes in 2014.
 
 Elaborate arrangements have been made for polling day and election officials said the seized EPICs have been returned to bonafide voters.
 
 
 
 
 At a press meet later in the day, MP DK Suresh alleged that the BJP was misusing the income tax department and the Election Commission’s office to raid Congress leaders.
 
 “A search was conducted at Congress leader Ravi Gowda’s house on Sunday, but nothing was found. However, a few within the EC started saying that Rs 3 crore was seized from the house, which is false. It was a deliberate attempt to malign the Congress’ image at the last minute to create adverse opinion about the party,” said Suresh.
 
 The EC, however, maintained it had specific information and hence conducted the search, but found nothing.
 
 
 
 
