Nagpur: The state government has sanctioned Rs200 crore for Maharashtra National Law University ( ) and work on construction of its campus would begin soon. 

 “We have prepared a wonderful development plan for the university and it would be the most beautiful campus in the country. The cost of the project is Rs750 crore,” said chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday.
 
 He was addressing the foundation stone laying ceremony of the underconstruction Manish Nagar railway overbridge (RoB) cum underpass at Shyam Nagar ground. The RoB and underpass is being constructed by Mahametro on behalf of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). The CM along with union transport minister Nitin Gadkari also inaugurated the Beltarodi police station and Nagpur Peri-urban Water Supply Scheme of Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP). The bhoomipujan of 20 water supply schemes was also done on this occasion.
 
 MNLU is at present functioning from rented premises in Moraj Design and Decorator building on Wardha Road near Khapri. The university had started functioning from 2016-17 and the second batch was admitted last year.
 
 Fadnavis said that tender for development of Nagpur airport through private participation had been floated and work on it would begin within two months. “Cargo operations would also start after development of the airport. Nagpur would soon become one of the best airports of the country,” he told the gathering. Sources in Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC) told TOI that the tender had been approved and would be floated next week. 
 
 Gadkari in his speech said that he had fulfilled all the promises made to people of Nagpur. “Work is going on on Outer Ring Road, flyovers, railway over bridges (RoBs) and railway underbridges (RuBs) that had been announced by the government. More would be constructed as per needs of the city,” he added.
 
 On the Manish Nagar RoB, the CM said that he had pursued it for over ten years. “Initially the design required acquisition houses of many people but we got it changed and now it's a win win situation for everybody,” he added.
 
 Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, water supply minister Babanrao Lonikar and public representatives of the city were present in the function.
 
 
