DUBAI: "I bow to the mighty  ...Final sprint killed me today like it did with everyone. Totally exploded coming into the steep section before the finish line. Good to have these tough challenges to become stronger. My legs kept shaking for another 15 minutes after the finish..."

 
 This was  's   post shortly after the completion of Stage 4 of the 2018  . The picture accompanying the caption was of him, physically spent and almost falling over at the finish line. The Hatta Dam was perhaps never going to be Kittel's stage and the sprinter was quick to acknowledge it through this post.
 
 However, a slightly bigger disappointment for Kittel would be the fact that despite winning a total of eight stages and two overall titles across his three previous participations at the Dubai Tour, his best performance was a third-place finish at Stage 3. It is likely that Katusha-Alpecin have some work left to do to sort their lead-out for their star signing as throughout the five stages, they couldn't quite set him up for the final hurrah.
 
 Kittel, however, doesn't seem to fret over it much. In an exclusive chat with TOI Sports, he explains how glad he is to be part of the new set-up and adds that he really is enjoying his time with the new bunch of riders.
 
 
 
 
 
 It's more like a motivation. I know what to expect in this race so it's a mix of experience and the feel-good factor I get everytime I ride. Every year is also different. Like you can see this edition hasn't been that great for me personally. It's been a different start as compared to last year or the year before. Then again, that doesn't bog me down or doubt myself. I'm still having a good time. My goals are also changing with each year and I know within myself that I'm fiercely focussed on them.
 
 
 
 That is obviously a reason. Not to say that I wasn't happy with my old team. I've always had a blast being part of Quick-Steps Floors. But this year, we are trying. We are fighting for victory in these races here. And perhaps it's not happening at the moment, we still have a great atmosphere in the camp. I am still getting to know them and the same goes for them. Like I said, it all boils down to team environment. On occasions, you may not be having the best of times on the racing track but if the people around you have a positive vibe, you don't really mind. It's a gradual process and in the coming events I'm sure we'll come along better.
 
 
 
 The bonding process is very important I think everytime you switch sides. That was always my number one goal coming to Katusha. At times it happens that the rider who leads out the train is a name who carries a big reputation, and the guys are probably reluctant to talk or something like that. I ensured it was never the case with me. And now we're here in Dubai having spent just about 10 weeks during the winter. Effectively, it was only 10 days per training camp and 20 days in total but we are still in the process here and it's going very well. This is a team sport and for me it is about creating a team and we definitely have a good team here. For example, during the third stage we were very close to the victory. Small things make a difference when you have such a competitive field. But everyone here is abiding by that process and ready to change and adapt.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 It's quite healthy to be honest. Cycling isn't one of those sports where rivalry goes beyond the racing track. We greet each other and keep talking, over dinner, breakfast and even once we are past the finish line. You know, me, Mark [Cavendish], Elia [Viviani], Alexander [Kristoff] and the rest. There's no problem at all, but of course everyone is also focussed on their goals, what they're here for. When we are at the race, we go for the kill. Of it it's actually quite relaxing. 
 
 
 
 It is. Cycling can get dangerous at times and we all know that. We sit in the same boat and in our hearts we all look out for each other. It's not just about winning and losing sometimes. For example, if there is a crash, the rules require us to keep going but at the back of our heads, somewhere there is that concern for those who have gone down. Crashes in the final few meters are common and part of the sport. But even when the finish line is approaching, things like, "is there injury? If there is, let's hope it's not serious and stuff like that. We don't intentionally shove anyone into the barrier but still it happens sometimes. You feel bad but at the same time we are strong enough to deal with it. We riders have grown up learning the Fairplay is one of the most necessary element in this sport.
 
 
 
 Just that it's a new year, new season, new team and sometimes it takes a little more time to get going. Getting a stage win at the beginning of the season always helps you get that confidence for the events going forward. Unfortunately, I haven't got it yet but I feel good about my progress. From the mechanical error of Stage 1 to not getting room to push through in the second, I got stronger at the Silicon Oasis Stage yesterday and finished third. Sometimes all you need is that little push and there is no looking behind. Obviously getting one soon would be nice because it's a reward not just for me. It's a reward for the team. And it's an early motivation, like a reminder that it's time to go for more.
 
 
 
 It's the prime objective. More than anything - and that includes winning stages, trophies or being the best. I think all that pales in comparison when it comes ensuring that the sanctity of the sport is maintained. We have to deal with the heritage of what has happened across so many generations. Not just Lance Armstrong, but other riders as well. We cannot just turn a blind eye; and instead deal with it. And we also have to fight to preserve the future of this sport. We turned out to be riders because we love it. So let's try our best to ensure the same for the next generation, and the generation after that.
 
