CHENNAI: For a majority of the second day of the 2018   Championship at Madras Gymkhana Golf Annexe here on Friday, it seemed Sri Lanka’s   would hold onto his lead from the opening round. There was late drama in store, though, as fellow Sri Lankan Mithun Perera and Noida’s   posted scores of seven-under-63 and five-under-65 respectively to share the lead alongside Thangaraja.

 
 In the end, it turned out to be a disappointing second round for Thangaraja as he managed just a score of 70 to finish at nine-under-131. The biggest gains on the day were made by Mithun, who was tied-12th at the end of the opening round.
 
 “The good birdie putts at the start gave me a lot of confidence. Prior to this week, I had actually struggled with my putting. I also made a lot of regulations today. It was good to be error-free at a course where you pay a heavy price if you are not consistent. I’ve not been at my best in recent months.
 
 “So this round comes as a huge boost, especially considering the fact that I missed the cut at the Hyderabad event last week. It will be interesting to compete with Thangaraja for the next two days and see who emerges on top. He is one of my best friends on tour and in fact my room partner this week,” Mithun, who has won five PGTI events, said.
 
 Other than the two Sri Lankans, Vikrant is also very much in the fray having put in a dominant display on Friday. “It was a good comeback after being one-over on the first six holes. The key here is to hit a lot of greens and I managed to do that well. I also executed my game plan well. I had missed two cuts this season prior to this event. But I feel my scoring is now getting better and that’s a big boost going into the Indian Open next week,” felt Vikrant.
 
 While Thangaraja, Mithun and Vikrant have fared well so far, the ability and experience of defending champion Mukesh Kumar can never be discounted. The man from Mhow in Madhya Pradesh posted a four-under-66 in the second round, leaving him just one shot behind at eight-under-132.
 
 
