PATNA: Orthopaedics attending ‘GOFCON 2018’, a two-day conference organised by   under the aegis of Bihar Orthopaedic Association, on Sunday advised people against blindly following exercise tips telecast on television or received through social media.

 “Every individual is different and exercises need to be tailor-made as such,” Agra-based orthopaedic Dr   said.
 
 Joint organising secretary and Boring Road-based orthopaedic Dr   said muscle exercises are not advised, especially when a person is suffering from knee joint pain or lower backache. “In cases of acute slip discs leading to the cervical spine and low back aches, an initial rest period of 48 to 72 hours is advised. If somebody exercises in these conditions, they will further irritate the joints,” Dr Gunjan said.
 
 Stressing on the need to follow exercises as directed by experts, organising secretary   said a person should follow a well-balanced diet for muscle development and not blindly follow what their gym trainers say. “Most of the trainers in gyms suggest over usage of protein, which catabolises into uric acid and gets deposited in the muscles leading to other serious problems,”   said.
 
 Patna-based orthopaedics also observed that there has been a rise in cases of knee joint pain and low back aches, especially among the younger generations.
 
 Dr Gunjan said of every 100 patient that visits his OPD, 20-30% complain of low back aches and knee joint pains. “Due to the changed lifestyle, we experience reduced mobility nowadays, which leads to these problems,” he added.
 
 Dr Amulya said majority of patients visiting his OPD complain of knee joint pain or lower backache. “Most of the people suffer these pains due to postural problems. In the last 35 years, we have observed an increase in these problems, especially among the younger generation. Sitting in one place continuously for 8-10 hours is unhealthy,” he said. 
 
 More than 600 orthopaedics from across the country attended the two-day conference. The conference was presided by organising chairman Dr R N Singh.
 
 
