NEW DELHI: A major scam has come to light, with mandatory   disclosure revealing that over 80,000 teachers are faculty members of three or more institutions of higher education. They seem to be "ghost" entities intended to falsely puff up the teaching rolls of colleges and universities.

 The findings of the all India survey on higher education 2016-17 (AISHE) were detailed by Union human resource development minister   on Friday, with the revelations flowing from 85% of the teachers providing their  . The ministry believes the numbers will rise after all do. "There are certain 'ghost' teachers who use proxy methods and are apparently teaching at multiple places fulltime. After the introduction of Aadhaar, 80,000 such teachers have been identified and action will be considered against them," said Javadekar.
 
 The minister, however, clarified that none of these teachers was from central universities. "The  ... have been identified in some state varsities and private ones," he said.
 
 The report highlighted growth in the higher education sector, noting the improvement in the gross enrolment ratio (GER, the ratio of enrolment in higher education to population in the eligible age group), which stands at 25.5 against 21.5 five years ago. In the last five years, the GER for Muslims and other minority communities has been slow to change. From 4.15 for Muslim youth in 2012-13, it rose to just 4.90 in 2016-17. The GER growth for other minority groups has been 0.33% in the same period.
 
 While there has been a significant increase in the number of universities and colleges in the last five years, the biggest share is that of state private and public universities. Among colleges too, the majority are private.
 
 The   has asked all varsities to seek Aadhaar numbers from employees and students to rule out duplication, and Javadekar said benefits outweighed risks. "Sharing your Aadhaar number is like sharing your mobile number or email ID. Sharing your mobile number doesn’t mean the person you give it to can see your texts. Aadhaar works the same way. It is protected,"
 
