CHENNAI: In an interesting twist, actor  , who played a crucial role in influencing the outcome of the 1996 assembly election that helped the DMK-TMC combine win, called on   chief M Karunanidhi at his Gopalapuram residence on Wednesday to seek his blessings for his political sojourn.

 The meeting lasted just 15 minutes. But, Rajinikanth came out a happy man. “I told kalaignar (Karunanidhi) that I have entered politics. He smiled and nodded his head as if welcoming me to politics,” Rajnikanth told reporters later. Karunanidhi, who has retired from politics, is rarely seen in public forums. His son and DMK working president M K   now holds the reins of the party.
 
 That battle lines are clearly drawn between DMK and Rajinikanth was evident from the fact that the meeting lacked the usual cordiality extended to a friend or an ally. There was no smile on Stalin’s face as he greeted the actor at the doorstep and there were no other family member, senior leaders or DMK cadres to greet him. Karunanidhi’s personal secretary   was the only other senior person present.
 
 
 
 
 On arrival at Karunanidhi’s residence, Rajinikanth stepped out of his car and hurried in even as Stalin, wearing a sombre expression, waited inside the portico to welcome him. Cryptic in his reaction, Stalin told reporters later, “It is Tamil culture to welcome everyone into our house with a smiling face. There is no surprise in Rajinikanth meeting Karunanidhi as both have met in the past too. DMDK chief Vijayakanth too met Karunanidhi and got his blessings after starting a party.” He added, “There is talk that some party or individual is behind the actor starting a party to take on DMK. But history has shown that those who wanted to demolish Dravidian parties have not survived because   soil belongs to Dravidian parties,” said Stalin.
 
 For his part, Rajinikanth said, “Kalaignar is the seniormost politician in the country. I respect him a lot. We have a very good friendship. I took his blessings as I am entering politics. I am happy meeting him,” he gushed. Their relationship goes back to 1996 assembly and   elections when Rajinikanth’s one-line slogan for the DMK-TMC alliance that even God cannot save TN if   won proved a turning point.
 
 “I told Karunanidhi that I have entered politics and wanted his blessings. But, I did not speak politics with Thalaivar,” said Rajinikanth.
 
