CHENNAI: For long,   has been waging a war with Karnataka to secure its due share of   Now the fight, if the state goes by the report of the Central Pollution Control Board, may not just be about the quantity of water, it would also be about quality. Karnataka is polluting the river before it enters Tamil Nadu, says a report filed by the board in the   on Friday.

 The board said the Thenpennaiyar and Arkavati, both tributaries of the Cauvery, were being polluted before they flow into Tamil Nadu. The report was submitted in the SC in connection with a case filed by Tamil Nadu in 2015 to restrain Karnataka from letting untreated sewage into the river.
 
 The river satisfies the drinking water needs of 1.7 crore people. About 1,200 million litres of sub-surface Cauvery water from wells along the banks of the river is tapped by the state government every day to provide drinking water to about 20% of the state population in 19 districts. 
 
 The water samples from the three rivers were tested jointly by the CPCB, and Karnataka and Tamil Nadu pollution control boards between September and December last year. The samples were lifted from Ajjibore (river Cauvery), Chokkarasanapalli (river Thenpennaiar) and from the   near Sangama before it joins river Cauvery, for four months. “River Thenpennaiyar is polluted and comprehensive plan of action is required for restoration of its water quality. River Arkavathi and river Cauvery were found to be polluted due to higher count of faecal coliform and requires vigilance from organisation concerned in the state for prevention of further pollution,” the CPCB report said.
 
 The analysis of samples revealed that river Arkavathi, before Sangama and river Cauvery at Ajjibore met the desired water quality criteria for the first three rounds in September, October and November with respect to presence of organic pollution measured as Biochemical Oxygen Demand. However, it exceeded limits in December. Total coliform and faecal coliform, an indicator of bacteriological pollution, exceeded the limits during September and October in river Arkavathi. Same was the case in the Cauvery in October. 
 
 CPCB also pointed out that Karnataka raised objections to monitoring river Arkavathi, even as Tamil Nadu maintained that the river was the source of pollution. Tamil Nadu will submit its remarks to the SC for action during the next hearing, scheduled after two weeks,” said a   
 
 
