MYSURU: In a big relief to medial seat aspirants in the state-run   colleges, the Medical Council of India ( ) renewed permission for majority of the recently started government medical colleges, except Koppal Institute of Medical Sciences. 

 The MCI in its meeting on April 26 decided to renew permission to these colleges, including Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences, Madikeri and the Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, Chamarajanagar. These medical colleges will have an intake of 150 each. This means the seat aspirants need not wait till the last date for admission to government colleges.
 
 According to the minutes of the meeting, the MCI had recommended the central government to renew the permission to government medical colleges of Kodagu, Chamarajanagar, Karwar, Raichuru, Gadag, Kalaburagi, Belagavi, and Bidar. All these colleges will have 150 seats each. The MCI also approved the increase in intake of students at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS),  , by 50 seats. The institute would have 200 seats now. But in the same meeting, the council decided to recommend to the central government not to renew the permission for admission of 4th batch of 150 MBBS students at the Koppal Institute of Medical Sciences.
 
 
 
 Even though the state government had assured of opening up of medical colleges in districts like Chikkamagaluru and   from this academic year, no new government colleges will be set up. No new colleges are proposed even in the private sector.
 
 Sachidananda, director, medical education department, told TOI that no government or private medical colleges are proposed in this new academic year.
 
 As expected, students are happy with the early permission for majority of the medical colleges. “Generally, medical counselling lasts for three-four rounds due to delay in permission-related issues. If all the seats are included in the first seat matrix itself, we can get a clear picture. There will be no confusion,” said  , a medical seat aspirant from the city.
 
 
