PUNE: For   (15),   (17), Vaishali Bhore (22), the SSC exam is a stepping stone to better things in life. All three are students of Poona   and Junior College. Joshi from Ratnagiri and Atre from Saswad work as priests. Vaishali from Yavatmal is employed as an assistant nurse.

 When Vaishali lost her father and her mother had to fend for them, she decided to take up a job. “ My father was a driver and died in an accident. It was a difficult phase and I dropped out of school. A relative told me about a nursing assistant course in Pune where you did not have to pay while studying but repay after getting a job. I took it,” Vaishali said.
 
 After completing her course in one and a half years, Vaishali got a job that paid Rs 5,000 per month. “I worked for some years and paid off my education fees. I was in the college hostel so that expense was saved,” she said. She also saved up Rs 2,000 every month and sent it to her mother. She landed another job that paid Rs 10,000 and she is able to make ends meet better.
 
 “I learned on the job and but I don’t have a degree. So the pay and the respect are lacking. After passing SSC, I will take up a nursing degree,” Vaishali said, adding that the hospital staff at Uttamnagar’s   helped her.
 
 Joshi’s entire family is into priesthood. He passed standard IV in Anjarle in Ratnagiri and his family was so poor that they sent him to Pune to live with his uncle and study to carry on the family tradition through the Sanskrit Pathshala. “ Every time we perform a pooja, the school gives us a portion of the earned money,” Joshi said.
 
 The education can stretch up to 12 years and Swanand wants to do more. “ I want to become a teacher. So against my parents’ wishes, I withdrew from that school and enroled in the night school in standard VIII,” Joshi said. His uncle now teaches him in religious matters.
 
 Joshi met Atre at the pathshala. “I want to join the Army. When I told my mother I was leaving for mainstream education, she was very disappointed,” Atre said.
 
 He is up at 4am and after the rituals at   temple near Shaniwarwada till 8.30am, he helps his mother and goes to the night school.
 
 “My father died when I was five. We lived in Saswad but my father’s family turned hostile. We came to Pune and my mother started a small catering business. I studied in the ZP school till standard VII but left it as we were too poor,” Atre said. He joined the Sanskrit Pathshala. Nobody in his family has cleared standard X but it Atre is determined to serve the nation.
 
 
