HYDERABAD: The government teachers, who worked during the 2016 summer vacations to provide midday meals to students, were in for a rude shock on Tuesday after the education department authorities said they would be paid only a meagre ₹18.75 per day for their services.

 
 
  
 While secondary grade teachers will be given ₹18.75 per day, school assistants will be given ₹25 per day for services rendered in 2016. The teachers, however, are demanding that as per the law they be given earned leave (EL) for services rendered during summer vacations and are threatening to organise protests at the mandal level against the decision.
 
 “We condemn the circular released by the commissioner and director of school education (C & DSE) saying that teachers will be paid only an honorarium instead of ELs for the services rendered during the summer of 2016. Headmasters and teachers of various schools worked during that time and it is insensitive on the department’s part to say they will be paid a meagre ₹25,” said   of the Telangana Progressive Teacher’s Federation.
 
 The teachers, who staged a protest in front of the C & DSE office on Tuesday, pointed out that as per the Fundamental Rights 82 and Go MS NO 114, they are entitled to ELs for the services rendered during the holidays, which they can encash at the time of retirement.
 
 “The entire teaching community is unhappy with this move. At least, now they should take back the order and issue a new one as per the guidelines,” said Kondal Reddy B, a teacher.
 
 Teachers from the   pointed out that teachers should be given 24 ELs as per the guidelines and added that they would be organizing protests at the district and mandal level on March 23.
 
 “We have met special chief secretary of education   and asked her to cancel the said memo, which is nothing but an insult to the teachers. We want the officials to release a new memo saying that teachers who worked during the summer vacation will get ELs,” said Ravi Ch, a teacher.
 
 Pointing to the state government’s decision to give ELs to teachers working during the summer holidays this year (2018), the teachers questioned the logic behind considering different guidelines during different years.
 
 
  
 
