PATNA: Armed criminals looted Rs4.23 lakh from Bandhan Bank branch at Bikramganj in Rohtas district on Monday and shot at UCO Bank’s cashier of Muzafarra branch under the Birpur police station area in Begusarai district on Tuesday. 

 Birpur police station SHO Dharmendra Kumar said the incident took place at around 1pm when the cash van was expected to reach the branch with money. “At least three armed criminals with their faces covered entered the bank and tried to loot cash. Unfortunately for the criminals, the bank had run out of cash and customers were shouting outside the branch,” the SHO said.
 
 He said cashier Vijay Kumar was inside the branch and he was shot at in his leg. “The criminals damaged the CCTV cameras installed inside the bank and fled with the digital video recorder (DVR),” he said adding the criminals fired at least three rounds to terrorize the people while fleeing.
 
 The SHO said four to five criminals on two bikes had reached the bank. “It is yet not known how much money was about to reach the bank by the cash van,” he said, adding raids were on to nab the dacoits. He said the cashier was out of danger.
 
 In Rohtas, four armed criminals looted the cash from Bandhan Bank branch located under the Bikramganj police station area on Monday evening. Surprisingly, the bank’s CCTV cameras were non-functional as the wiring was nibbled by rodents.
 
 Bandhan Bank’s regional head Shubhajit Mitra told TOI over the phone that the bank employees, including manager Manik Kundu, had downed the bank’s shutter at around 6.30pm when the dacoits forced them to reopen it at gunpoint. “They forced the bank employees to open the vault and looted Rs4.23 lakh. While fleeing, they also took away the cellphone and keys of the manager’s bike. The criminals also pulled out the fuel pipes of the employees’ bikes and closed the shutter from outside,” Mitra said, adding the villagers opened the shutter after which the bank employees informed the police. He said the wiring damaged by rodents was being under repair.
 
 Bikramganj police station SHO Mohammad Akram Ansari said the branch is located at a secluded place. “An FIR has been lodged and investigations are on,” he said.
 
 
