KOLKATA: Two young men were driving back home in the dead of the night when they got into a “race” with another vehicle. What started as an altercation snowballed into a free-for-all that left the two battered and bloodied. Three men in the other vehicle reportedly rained blows on the two and smashed their car’s windscreen as they were apparently infuriated that the two had tried to overtake them.

 The road rage—one of the most ghastly ones to be reported in the past year—took place around 1.30am on Tuesday on the Patuli Bypass connector in front of  , when cousins   (19) and   (18) were returning from Baruipur in a Swift Dzire that was otherwise used as an app cab. 
  
 
  The other three youths were also driving from Baruipur in a Chevrolet car. The trio’s identity were yet to be established. Sikdar and Ganguly lived in two posh complexes at Maheshtala; the car was registered in Sikdar’s mother’s name.
 
 From what the cops could cobble from an initial probe revealed that both the vehicles were headed to the city when they started racing each other and one vehicle grazed the other. “At the Patuli connector, Sikdar and Ganguly stepped out to either confront the other three or to assess the damage to their car. The men in the Chevrolet also got off,” said an officer. 
 
 The three reportedly accosted Sikdar who was behind the wheel of the Swift Dzire. “Ganguly and Sikdar claimed the three men thrashed them so hard they started bleeding. The three also smashed their windscreen and threatened them with dire consequences before driving away towards Ruby,” said DC (south suburban) Santosh Nimbalkar.
 
 Ganguly and Sikdar drove to the Patuli police station to lodge a complaint. “When we told them to undergo a test, they said they wanted to get it done at M RBangur Hospital,” an officer said. After lodging the complaint, the two reportedly called up an acquaintance, P Krishna Prasad, who lived at P-15 Lake Place, and asked if they could leave the car at his house. Prasad, who was in Hyderadab, agreed. The cops are not sure how the two managed to return to   so late at night.
 
 
 More drama unfolded the next morning. Ganguly and Sikdar had apparently left the car at P-15, Lake Place but residents of P-17 found the vehicle in their yard. Shocked at the presence of an unknown vehicle, that too, with a shattered windscreen, blood spots and a clump of long hair, they called the police. Sergeant Prasanta Naskar and his team arrived, and shortly, stories of accidents and murders began to float.
 
 
 The police said witnesses claimed the youths in the Chevrolet were also injured . “The registered address of the Chevrolet is fake,” said the police.
 
 
