KOLKATA: The first language paper of the Madhyamik examination did not go too well for Hindi candidates. They said to have had missed out on as many as 10 marks over “out-of-syllabus” questions. 

 President of   (WBBSE)   said he has received complaints and the same have been sent to the examination committee that shall examine the paper and make recommendations accordingly. “We have heard that one question with two segments were outside the prescribed syllabus. The segments were worth five marks each. The committee will let us know after their evaluation and then we shall take a call,”   said.
 
 As many as 50,000 candidates appeared for the Hindi examination out of the 11,02,098 candidates who took the exam in seven languages. 
 
 Though instances of cheating were reported from an examination centre in Basirhat of North 24 Parganas, Ganguly denied having any knowledge about the same. He insisted that the upgraded security system has been successful and there was no possibility of the question papers being brought out from the centre. “We have introduced an upgraded security mechanism that will alert us immediately whenever the question paper packets are opened,” Ganguly said, referring to the GPS-attached question paper envelopes. 
 
 On Monday, the board allowed several students to appear for the examination from hospitals and district health centres. “We have permitted candidates seeking writers even at the last minute. We have also made necessary medical arrangements so that the students can appear in the first examination without stress,” the Board president said. 
 
 He appreciated the efforts of a physically challenged student, Debakrishna Maitra. Maitra is a student of Mahispota Boys’ High School in North 24 Parganas. “The candidate is 90% physically challenged. When we requested him to take the examination from the comfort of a hospital and take the assistance of a writer, he refused. Instead, the gritty student wrote the examination himself,” Ganguly said.
 
 “His only request was to allow his mother inside the exam centre so that she could make him sit on the bench comfortably, which we agreed,” he added. 
 
 
