MUMBAI: Four days before the 25th anniversary of the March 12, 1993, serial blasts here that killed 257, the CBI on Thursday arrested  , an accused absconding, at Delhi airport. Farooq, 57, was extradited from the UAE.

 At 7.11pm, some 14 hours after his early morning arrest, Farooq, also known as Farooq Takla, was remanded in CBI custody for 10 days by a special court here.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The fresh arrest sets the stage for a third trial in India’s deadliest terror attack. So far, there have been 106 convictions, 38 life sentences, two death sentences and one execution in the two trials.
 
 Farooq, listed as absconding accused number 196 in 1993, is charged by the CBI of helping with the logistics of sending five co-accused for arms training to Pakistan via Dubai.
 
 The CBI said the Indian government made an extradition request for Farooq on August 22, 2017 to the UAE. An alleged   aide, he was declared a proclaimed offender in June 1995. Last August, a red corner notice was issue by Interpol.
 
 The nabbing was hastened by the Gujarat ATS, which gave specific inputs about Farooq’s whereabouts and provided CBI details of his passport issued on the fake identity of  . “Gujarat ATS had provided a photocopy of the passport and his cell number. His first location at Dubai jetty was also found by Gujarat ATS and the same was forwarded to the CBI. 
 
 The passport details helped CBI intercept him at Delhi airport,” said a top government official.
 
 Farooq is one of the key persons in the 1993 blasts conspiracy. He is a conspirator who arranged for the stay of the co-accused in Dubai. There are three co-accused confessions too,’’ said special CBI prosecutor Deepak Salvi as he sought a 14-day remand to investigate further and collect evidence against him and other known and unknown absconding accused. The main accused conspirators still absconding are Tiger Memon, Mohammed Dossa, Dawood Ibrahim and  . 
 
 Wearing a white shirt, black trousers, a brown cap, Farooq emotionally greeted his twin   in the court room of the special Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (TADA) judge G A Sanap, where CBI investigating officer Shiv Jain produced him. He fell at his brother’s feet and the two sat on the floor briefly.
 
 Though advocate Farhana Shah and Sultan Khan appearing for Farooq objected to CBI custody, judge Sanap said: “It would not be appropriate to go into questions raised by defence now, CBI cannot be denied opportunity to investigate the matter and go to the root of the case. Remand of 10 days till March 19.”
 
 After the emotion of twin brothers reuniting, the remand hearing was not without drama. When Farooq was asked if he had anything to say, Mansoor, standing behind the CBI officers and police in a room teeming with reporters, prompted his twin to “speak only before the judge. Say whatever you want to say in front of the judge”.
 
 A surprised Sanap asked Mansoor who gave him permission to speak. Mansoor said he is Farooq’s twin and had been an accused in the same case but was acquitted in the first trial. “All CBI officers know me. It is because of me he came to India,’’ he said.
 
 “He cares for me, hence he speaks,’’ Farooq said once, only to earn the judge’s gentle rap for speaking out of turn. Later, Mansoor fainted and the judge asked that he be taken care of and seated outside.
 
 Farooq is younger to Mansoor by five minutes. His mother, who had not seen him for 25 years, was in court, finding it hard to control her tears. Farooq’s sons were in court too.
 
 Mansoor had returned from Dubai and was arrested in 1993 and faced the 13-year-long main trial till his acquittal in 2006. Mansoor had also been charged with providing logistics and receiving some co-accused at Dubai airport before they went for arms training to Pakistan.
 
 Shah made eight applications seeking permission for Farooq to be allowed legal consultation, home food, medical aid and to declare that he doesn’t wish to make any confession. Judge Sanap asked Salvi to file replies on Friday.
 
 (Inputs by Sarfaraz Shaikh in Ahmedabad)
 
 
