Some people have a thirst for knowledge that doesn't get quenched over time. As 85-year-old HS Chinna walks across the convocation stage, he is joined by other like-minded individuals who continue to chase their dreams.

 
 
 Lilu Ram, a former senate member and a professor at Government College of Education, Sector 20, Chandigarh, will also receive his PhD at the annual convocation on Sunday. Ram had earlier enrolled in 2007 for a PhD but could not pursue it due to some personal problems. He enrolled again in 2013 and has now completed PhD in education. He had been a senate member in the last tenure.
 
 
 
 When Mohammad Hakim Haider, 47 came to Chandigarh on a two-month Government of India scholarship in 2006, he decided to pursue his master's from   since back at home in Afghanistan there were no opportunities available. He completed his MA in economics in 2007-09 from PU and after that enrolled for PhD. On Sunday, Haider will get his degree for his work on ‘Poverty and vulnerability in Afghanistan: social gaps, causes and consequences’.
 
 Talking about the findings of his study he said, “The findings of my study is that poverty has increased in Afghanistan since the arrival of the US forces. Despite a lot international aid, the poverty along with vulnerability has increased in Afghanistan. Moreover, it is more prevalent in cities that rural areas of my country.”
 
 Haider, who is a professor at the Kabul University, said there were no educational institutions in Afghanistan offering masters programmes except for a few private institutions that had recently opened in Afghanistan.
 
 
 
 Eighty-five-year-old Harbhajan Singh Chhina will receive a PhD degree for his work on quantitative genetics of Gir cattle. Chinna had enrolled for PhD at National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, in 1969 and submitted his thesis in 1976. However, due to some technical problem his viva could not be taken. Now, Chinna would get his PhD degree and wants more of such research work to be done on other breeds of Sahiwal, Red-sindhi and Ongolo cattle.
 
 Originally from Amritsar, Chinna says this is the first-of-its-kind research. “I worked on it as it is one of the top-class dairy breed in the country. I explored through a series of investigations its genetic constitution for a large number of traits, including milk production. I developed important selection system for improving breed of this cattle. This research is only meant for increasing milk production and breeding efficiency of the Gir breed,” Chhina says.
 
 On the delay in getting his PhD, Chhina adds, “There was only one technical reason they for the delay since the university had a regulation of submission of a foreign language certificate. I had been abroad, so I submitted the certificate by qualifying it from Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar. Then my viva was taken recently and now I am finally getting my doctorate.” He completed this research work in 8 years as a scholar of National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, under the guidance of Dr R Nagarcenkar.
 
 
 
 At 51, Col Guarav Bhatia will receive his fourth master’s degree at the 67th annual convocation of Panjab University. Col Bhatia has already done MSc in defence and strategic studies from  , masters in human rights from National Institute of Human Rights and MBA from IGNOU. While Col Bhatia was pursuing his masters in disaster management from PU, his daughter was studying at   in Mohali. And, he says, his fifth degree would be a PhD in disaster management.
 
 After his study leave was approved, Col Bhatia was posted in   in the operations branch and was looking after nuclear, biological and chemical warfare. “In India there is no education of this subject. Disaster is the closest that I could find to this subject. The Army is thought to be the first respondent in disaster management. As I am serving, the knowledge will benefit my organization,” he added.
 
