Deepika Padukone, Vidya Balan and   might not seem to have anything in common as leading ladies of Hindi films, yet they are sisters under the skin in making one singular statement with their film choices — that women aren’t just accessories on the silver screen anymore, they are the stories themselves. There is also Priyanka Chopra, who has blazed through the west like wildfire.
It was the late  , who rewrote the rules in Bollywood as the first female superstar in the 1980s and 90s. She was a crowdpuller, had roles specially written for her and commanded the same billing and price as her male counterparts. Her legacy continued with  . Interestingly, both have a phenomenal and loyal fan following. 
 The likes of Swara Bhaskar, Bhumi Pednekar, Nimrat Kaur, Radhika Apte and Richa Chadha keep the cine-goers enthralled with their delightful women characters. 
 While there are filmmakers like Farah Khan, Zoya Akhtar and Ashwiny Iyer Tiwari redefining the benchmarks of success behind the camera, actresses like Konkona Sen Sharma and Nandita Das have also joined them as they explore gritty modern cinema. 
 Cutting through the gender biases, today, female stars control a sizeable power centre in Hindi cinema. Words like ‘shero’ are bestowed upon them as they are changing the landscape of Indian cinema. The changing face and portrayal of women in Hindi cinema is an exciting reality..
 
 
 Numbers are the modern yardstick to measure success in films. Hundreds of crores aren’t just a statistic; they’re concrete proof of the power of stardom and the measure of popularity. While the Khans, Kumars and Kapoors still enjoy the cream of big-ticket Bollywood, the women have their own victory songs. Deepika Padukone’s latest 'Padmaavat' (earlier titled 'Padmavati') earned big bucks at the box-office. In film circles, she’s referred to as India’s highest paid actress with hits like 'Goliyon Ki Raasleela Ram-Leela' (2013), 'Piku' (2015), 'Bajirao Mastani' (2015) and 'Padmaavat' (2018). Like her predecessors (Sridevi and Madhuri Dixit), she is the face of her films and has the ability to draw audiences to the theatres. 
 Talking about the epithets, Deepika, in one of her interviews, said, “The reason I have the title of the highest paid actress is because I am able to deliver at the box-office. I see that as an achievement not just for myself, but for women in my profession as well as all working women around the world. They have to prove their capability to be paid well and to be at par with their male counterparts.”
 It’s the box-office appeal of Deepika, Kangana, Alia Bhatt and other stars that fans the popularity of films with central women characters. 
 Alia, who has portrayed strong characters in films like 'Highway' (2014) and 'Dear Zindagi' (2016), believes there should not have been a disparity between men and women in the first place. She’s been quoted as saying, “Women are dominant in every field. I’m happy, but having said that, it makes me take a step back and think, why are we talking about it with a sense of jubilation and achievement? Should our presence in every field not be our birth right? Should it not have been this way from the very beginning?” 
 
  
  
 
 In recent times, Vidya was the first of the contemporary actresses to close the gap between male and female stars. Her films – 'The Dirty Picture' (2011) and 'Kahaani' (2012) — helped coin the word ‘shero’. In her films, Vidya was the hero. She’s also one of the first women in Indian cinema to have filmmakers and writers create roles for her exclusively. Talking about the same, she reveals, “You hear that they wrote this role keeping Amitabh Bachchan in mind and wonder how that works, and it suddenly begins to happen to you. Yes, it’s a good feeling.”
 Kangana has always been vocal about making a mark in a world that is clearly male-dominated. She even tamed the storm of nepotism with her candid rebellion. While talking to BT, she expressed, “A woman, who is always seen as fighting for what she believes in, is not the most desirable. Today, everything is about the survival of the fittest; if you don’t fight, how will you survive? We have to tell our women that some things are worth fighting for.” She’s has been a champion of women-centric stories. One such film,'Tanu Weds Manu Returns' (2015) grossed huge numbers at the BO, a figure previously unheard of for a Hindi film without a male superstar.
 
  
  
 
 The rise of social media in Bollywood has also been instrumental in the surging popularity of female stars. Very few Indian stars, men or women, enjoy the kind of influence that Priyanka Chopra does on a global stage. With a hit TV show 'Quantico' and the 'Baywatch' movie in her belt, PeeCee has become a global icon and one of the most followed celebrities online. She believes women should be treated as fairly as the men. She says, “It’s a small percentage of women who are privileged to not have conditions placed on them. I’m grateful that I am in that lot. When I think about being the woman I want to be, I just want to be the best version of myself. And I use every opportunity that comes my way in that direction. I want all the girls without an exception to have that space for themselves where they have ample opportunities to be the women they wish to be.”
 
 
 
 At one point, marriage used to be the death knell in a heroine’s career, but Vidya, Kareena Kapoor and Anushka Sharma have laid that taboo to rest.
 Another trend that’s gone out of fashion is the actress’s age. Earlier, hitting the 30s meant relegating heroines to playing mothers to much older male stars. But the current crop of actresses enjoys a different reality. Vidya turned 39 earlier this year, and she opines, “As a woman, I feel as exciting, desirable and sexy as I did years ago. That has not changed with time. Age is a huge stereotype in our society. I don’t think I want to age myself down, as long as I am feeling good and looking good? At 39, I am playing roles that are suitable to my age. Five years ago, I didn’t imagine that I would do the kind of work that I am doing today. I am hoping that with time, the roles that I do also become as exciting and grow in that sense” She bagged numerous awards for her last film, Tumhari Sulu (2017), where she played a radio jockey; it is now being remade in other Indian languages as well. 
 
  
  
 One male superstar to acknowledge the change is Shah Rukh Khan, who has gone ahead to ensure that his films always feature the ladies’ names before his when the credits roll. He says, “In my films, the leading lady’s role has to be important, as I believe that women play an important role in the world. I’m not talking about just the leading actresses, but also the other female characters.” 
 
 More to girl power in Indian cinema!
 
 - Rachit.Gupta@timesgroup.com
 
