MOHALI: Union minister of civil aviation P Ashok Gajapathi Raju on Tuesday hinted that the Chandigarh international airport could be named after  .

 Raju said there was no controversy over the naming of the airport. “The Punjab government had made a request and so did the Haryana government. There is no need of a controversy. Shaheed Bhagat Singh is a martyr for a country and not just a small community. So, I don’t see any controversy in this, but there is a set procedure to name an airport, which is to be followed,” he said. Before the minister could answer a query on if his statement could be construed as a “yes” for naming the airport as Shaheed Bhagat Singh International Airport, Mohali, Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher, in a lighter vein, said, “What’s wrong with the name Chandigarh international airport. You are residents of Chandigarh and why you don’t like the name...” Anandpur Sahib MP   too joined in, saying, “I have already suggested that let both the names, Chandigarh and Mohali, be clubbed with Shaheed  .” Raju did not clarify on whether the word Chandigarh or Mohali is to be used with the airport.
 
 
  
 
 Both the states have equal stake of 24.5% in the airport terminal project, that had led to a tug of war to name the airport as per their demands. The assemblies of Punjab and Haryana in 2009 and 2010, respectively, passed resolutions for naming the airport after martyr Bhagat Singh.
 
 But Haryana chief minister   after coming to power in October 2014 wrote to the civil aviation ministry to name the airport after RSS leader Mangal Sein, who had also been deputy chief minister of Haryana for about two years from 1977.
 
 After Punjab proposed the name as Shaheed Bhagat Singh for the airport, the Haryana government in April 2016 passed a resolution in its assembly agreeing to the proposal. But the government did not agree to use Mohali in the name.
 
 But after facing criticism, Khattar clarified that his government had no objection of naming the airport after martyr Shaheed Bhagat Singh and said since the name of Bhagat Singh had not been finalised, his government had proposed the name of Mangal Sein. He added that Haryana government did not have any objection to name the airport after the martyr.
 
 In March 2017, Opposition MPs in the Rajya Sabha had attacked the Centre and the BJP government in Haryana, alleging that the state administration did not want to name Chandigarh airport after Bhagat Singh. Treasury benches countered the claim. CPM's Ritabrata Banerjee said March 23 was the martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and   and there was a controversy over the naming of the airport. Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa said on one side there was demand to name the airport after the great freedom fighter but on the other hand, BJP wanted to name it after the party's ex-chief minister.
 
