NAVI MUMBAI: With the condition of one of the largest natural water bodies in sector 35 of   node in a deteriorating state, local residents have formed a voluntary group—Lake Action Group—and launched a massive clean-up drive on Monday with the help of  .

 On the first day itself, the group collected two tempo loads of waste from the   side. The drive will continue to improve the depleted water level in the lake and also attract migratory birds, besides restoring flora and fauna.
 
 “The pond is not able to hold all the water which flows from the surrounding hills during the monsoon and most of it gets wasted due to flooding on the streets. In the past few years, we have also observed that the water level is depleting in the pond. Dumping of garbage and debris also seems to be squeezing its dimensions. The civic agencies are least bothered about the water body’s maintenance which compelled us to launch the campaign,” said activist Sudhir Patel.
 
 According to the group members, polluting activities like rampant dumping and quarrying have been taken place in and around the pond. “We have requested various civic agencies to urgently look into the matter and put into place a mechanism whereby such activities are strictly monitored and completely stopped where necessary, but in vain,” said Dharmendra Kar, a green activist.
 
 The residents will also undertake plantation activities around the lake in monsoon. “We will create awareness amongst the public about the importance of lake conservation which is why the group has been constituted. It seems the lake surroundings hasn’t been cleaned since a long time. Some birds like the kingfisher are still sighted here. If the lake is not maintained, we will completely miss the flora and fauna of the area,” said environmentalist Jyoti Nadkarni.
 
 The local PCMC administration has provided logistic facilities like the waste compacter to collect and dispose off the trash accumulated by the volunteers during the day-long drive. PCMC Kharghar superintendent Shriram Hazare said, “The citizens have done a fantastic job.” 
 
 Activist Patel also said that the group has a long way to go but “nothing is impossible”. “We are thankful to PCMC team to support the cleanliness drive. Once a week, we will carry out the drive to keep the area clean and neat,” he said. 
 
 
