BHOPAL: Illegal meat shops running near the   are posing a serious threat to flyers. Airport authorities have written about it several times, but the meat business continues to flourish. These shops attract birds which could result in hits to the aircraft. The Aircraft Act's Rule 91 says that no slaughtering should be allowed within 10-km radius of an aerodrome reference point to avoid attracting birds that could risk the approaching aircraft.
 
 
 Airport authorities have been urging the government for last two years to take steps to check the menace. The waste generated from meat and fish shops are attracting birds, posing threat to flights. The government has also asked all municipal corporations to set up dedicated 'markets' for sale of meat and poultry items. "The corporations need to identify such places. All fish and meat selling stalls should be relocated to the dedicated markets," said an airport official. When contacted, former director of Bhopal airport,   told TOI that the issue had been discussed several times the shops were also fined by the BMC. "The shop vendors reopen their counters after sometime," said Mathur. He was recently transferred to Srinagar as director. 
 
 On the condition of anonymity, a senior airport official said that meat and fish shops near airport could lead to an accident on any given day. "Thankfully, no casualty has taken place in the past due to bird hit. However, that does not mean that it will be the same in the future also. Such shops should be shut down as early as possible," said the official. 
 
 Even the regular flyers feet that administration should take immediate steps in this regard. "Despite knowing the fact that such shops are illegal they keep on running. Instead of imposing fines on them, the shops must be shut down permanently," said  , a Bhopal-based private firm employee. 
 
 A Mumbai-bound   flight had suffered a bird-hit and was forced to make an emergency landing immediately after take-off from Bhopal airport in March 2017. Flight 634, which took off from Raja Bhoj airport at 8.15 am, had to make a smooth touchdown. All 110 passengers were later shifted to a hotel. 
 
 Authorities later told the media that a bird had got sucked into the engine. It was the second incident of bird-hit in three months.
 
 A Delhi-bound Air India aircraft from Bhopal, with 122 passengers including three MPs and crew on board, was diverted to Jaipur last February after a bird hit resulted in extensive damage to its engine blades. 
 
 In December 2015, An Air India aircraft from Delhi to Bhopal with 116 passengers had a close shave when it suffered a bird hit while landing at the Raja Bhoj airport, triggering panic among passengers.
 
 
