PATNA: Delhi Public School-Patna’s Siddhant Priyam scored 98.2% to get a berth among top scorers in the science stream of Class XII examinations of   in the city. The results were announced on Saturday.

 
 St Michael’s High School-Patna’s   fetched 97.8% in the science stream, scoring a perfect 100 in Informatics Practices (IP), 99 in mathematics, 97 each in chemistry and English and 96 in physics. 
  
 Son of state rural development department engineer   and homemaker Archana Prasad,   told this reporter he wasn’t expecting above 95%. “I studied for 8-9 hours every day and had also joined the Mentors Eduserv in Patna for the preparation of IIT-JEE,” he said.
 
 Ashwini has cleared the JEE (Main) with AIR 7,000 and claimed to have done well in the JEE (Advanced). “I shall be through,” he said confidently.
 
 In commerce stream, Dr G L Dutta DAV Public School- Transport Nagar, Patna’s Ujjwal Singh scored 97.8% with 99 each in business studies and economics, 98 in English, 97 in IP and 95 in accountancy.
 
  
  
 
 Ujjwal aspires to become a legal eagle. “I have written the Common Law Admission Test this year and, according to the answer key, I should get 114.25 out 0f 200 marks. I want to study in Bangaluru’s law college,” he said and added he had also written the entrance exam of Banaras Hindu University and Indraprastha University-Delhi and was waiting for the results.
 
 Ujjwal’s father Shatrunjay is a businessman and mother Punam Singh a homemaker. “I never had a fixed study schedule. On days I studied for one hour and on other days for five hours,” Ujjwal said.
 
  
  
 
 In arts stream, DAV Public School-BSEB Colony’s Suzal Raj scored 98.4%, obtaining 100 in political science, 99 each in economics, geography and history and 95 in English. Born to businessman   and homemaker Rupa Gupta, Suzal aspires to become an IAS officer.
 
 He said he studied for seven hours a day in the run-up to the Board exam and never attended any coaching classes. For now, he is eyeing a seat in Delhi University for his graduation course.
 
 
