CHENNAI: A total of 1,064 places have been identified as sewage mixing points along   canal zones where sewage from both residential areas and other drains are let into it.

 The information came to light after a study was taken up jointly by the Chennai   (CRRT) and Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Ltd (TNUIFSL). The study further said within the city limits itself the sewage is being let into the canal at 22 spots. Similarly, the canal faced encroachments in all its three parts – north, central and south portions. A total of 82 encroachments have been identified.
 
 In the south and the north parts, 31 encroachments each have been spotted. Whereas the central part of this water body has only 20 encroachments. A total of 26,100 families are found living along the banks of the canal, the study pointed out.
 
 The next step was to identify the spots where solid waste has been dumped into the canal. In the northern portions of the canal, a total of 5,477 tonne of solid waste has been dumped. The central portion had slightly higher quantity of solid waste at 5,851 tonne. The situation is worst in the southern part where more than 6,700 tonne of solid waste has been dumped. These waste are dumped in 21 locations along the entire banks of the canal that passes through the city limits, it said.
 
 The pressure for the canal does not merely end with the release of sewage or dumping of waste. Floating waste also adds to the problem. The study showed that the floating waste is found in   areas of the canal in the northern portions. In the south, it is found along Greenways Road,   and Mudagakanniamman Koil MRTS station, it said.
 
 All the garbage dumping, release of sewage into the canal and floating waste has to be removed from the water body, the study suggested. It said the sources of the sewage has to be plugged and diverted, improving the quality of water in the canal’s basins, desilting has to be done, pollution in the water body needs to be reduced, the capacity to carry flood water should be increased. Creating green lungs along the banks and awareness among people are the other efforts required to restore the canal to its original form, the study added.
 
 
