BHOPAL: The   has given its teachers the tag of 'rashtra nirmata' (nation buiders) and a prize assignment during   visit to Mandla on Tuesday — hand out   They have even been given   that proudly announce their job: ‘Bhojan Vyavastha’ (food arrangement).

 Last September, it was truly the pits as teachers in Tikamgarh were made to dig for Swachh toilets, triggering nationwide uproar. Embarrassed, the state government issued a directive that schoolteachers will not be used for any other task, apart from election work. And six months later, here is another shocker.
 
 The chief executive officer (CEO) of zilla panchayat has issued an order to 145 schoolteachers — 73 of whom are senior teachers (Varisht Adhyapaks) — to distribute refreshments to VVIPs and VIPs on the occasion. “As per the orders of district collector, arrangement of food and refreshment for guests would be done under supervision of officials of department of food and civil supplies and the work of distributing water pouches and food items will be done by the teachers whose names are given,” reads the order, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 TOI spoke to some of the teachers named on the food roster and they all said it was “utterly humiliating”.
 
 ‘Have no option but follow orders’
 
 I fail to understand how a government can stoop so low and treat teachers like this. When I saw my seniors on the list, I just felt helpless and quietly came for bhojanarranger duty,” said one.
 
 Teachers have been told to camp in Mandla overnight, say sources.A senior teacher told TOI from Mandla: “A government that can ask teachers to dig toilet pits can ask us to do anything. Instead of evaluating board exam papers for the past two days, we are here to look after food and water. It is actually a shame but nobody will understand.”
 
 Another teacher, who is on duty in Mandla since Friday, said that they were following orders quietly because they fear for their jobs. “We have no choice but to follow orders. Even if we wish to speak about it, we can’t because we may be sacked or transferred to remote areas,” the teacher said.The order says that there will be thousands of guests from across the country and the state, “including VVIPs/ VIPs”, so the teachers are “directed to remain present for duty”. This makes a mockery of the orders repeatedly issued by the state government since 2010 that teachers will be exempt from all non-teaching work, apart from poll duty. TOI has accessed at least 10 such orders. The most recent of them even highlighted that in Singrauli district, teachers were made to take care of arrangements at a mass marriage.
 
 The order, a copy of which is with TOI, stressed upon the need to end this practice and laid emphasis on the importance to maintain dignity of teachers. “It is also a clear violation of rules,” it said.
 
 Zilla panchayat CEO Mandla Sujan Rawat, who issued the order, refused to talk about it. “Madam, let’s not talk about it,” he said, and disconnected the call. School education minister Vijay Shah did not respond to repeated calls from TOI. MoS school education Deepak Joshi seemed surprised, and said: “I have no knowledge of any such order. I will check into it tomorrow. If it is true, it is indeed sad."
 
