What do you do when humans get miffed with your work? You write about animals. But when the cow and the pig are touchy points which animal do you pick? Well, noted Tamil writer,   — who declared himself dead two years ago when his book   earned the wrath of Hindutva groups accusing him of misrepresenting traditions, practiced at the   in his home town Tiruchengode — chose an energetic goat, Poonachi! Yes, that’s the name of the protagonist goat on whom his latest book is based.

 Speaking at the Hyderabad Literary Festival on Sunday, he explained why he chose a goat as the protagonist, saying, “The goat is one animal that is close to my heart and one that I’m quite familiar with, so I thought writing about the animal will help me break out of the writer’s block.”
 
 With his book, the award-winning author is “making a strong political statement by writing about animals and not humans.” While the protagonist may be a goat, the “book speaks about the extraordinary lives of people” around him, said Perumal, smiling, even as the audience broke into an applause. 
 
 An excerpt from the translation that was read out summed up the satirical take on the inherent patriarchy that perpetuates misogyny in the guise of seemingly harmless traditions. “The old lady who owns Poonachi, is busy in getting its ears pierced and registered. Her accomplice, a young girl, wonders why does one need to have a goat’s ears pierced. Among the many assumptions she makes, the little girl wonders if it’s because goats can organise themselves and be dangerous as they have horns to attack,” read out  , publisher of Murugan’s latest book, and it was greeted with a thumping applause.
 Protesting the rising intolerance in the country,   asserted that though communities have been miffed with regional writers for revealing community secrets for long, now, for the first time in many years, their collective disapproval has begun to assume a communal and political colour. “The death threat to Murugan was not just a threat, it was a fact. The guy who shot the video stating he would kill Perumal went onto attack a dalit couple and kill the husband by beheading him,” he said. 
 
 Clearly, Perumal Murugan is back and how. But looks like he never gave up writing in the first place. “I wrote over 200 poems during the two years I was in exile,” he said, signing off.
 
