KOLKATA: This Durga Puja, get ready for a slice of authentic China in  .

 
 In an attempt to establish a close cultural and commercial connect with  , Communist China will sponsor the oldest community Durga Puja in the township, turning the popular BJ Block Puja into a mini Chinatown with funds provided by the Chinese consulate, which is also located in Salt Lake.
 
 
  
 
 The Chinese consulate has for the past few years been trying to get more involved in the cultural scenario of Kolkata. Even when the Doklam standoff had stiffened relationship between the two countries, the consulate was seen participating in community pujas, announcing and giving away prizes in different categories in association with the Kolkata Police. Now, it has decided to go a step further.
 
 It will not only fully sponsor the BJ Block Puja, but will also send a team of artists and artisans to China to train in designs inspired by Chinese architecture. The team will fly to   in  , where they will meet master craftsmen from China, according to plans that are still being firmed up. This is because the entire theme — right from the pandal to the deity and decorations inside and on the exterior — will represent Chinese art forms. The pandal is most likely to resemble a pagoda. Kunming also has a number of ornate gateways, which the local artists would be expected to replicate.
 
 Visitors will also get to taste of Chinese flute music, dragon dance and acrobatics for which artists will be flown in from China. These shows will be held in the ground adjacent to the pandal.
 
 “Durga Puja of Kolkata is an experience and it transcends religious thresholds, bringing everyone together. Naturally we at the Chinese consulate have also become quite involved in the festivities,” said consul general, Ma Zhanwu.
 
 ‘This year, we will bring China to Salt Lake’
 
 Chinese consul general Ma Zhanwu said, “Last year, we gave away safety awards to the organisers who were able to showcase immaculate safety preparedness inside their pandals. While last year we sent these organisers for a trip to China, this year we are likely to bring a slice of China to a Durga Puja pandal for everyone to enjoy.”
 
 BJ Block Puja secretary   could not be happier. Every year, the Puja committee ties up with an Indian state to showcase its culture, making it a must-stop for pandal-hoppers. “Hope this grand theme that we are drawing up with the consulate works out well. In the coming weeks, we will hold several rounds of talks with the consulate to firm up the plans,”   said. The organisers feel that budget could overshoot last year’s budget of Rs 40 lakh because of the special theme.
 
