KOLKATA: Yet another film, this one directed by a senior   cop, has run into the crosshairs of the   for the word ‘Gujarat’.

 The regional office of CBFC has asked for six modifications, including muting of the word ‘Gujarat’ on the two occasions it occurs, in the Bengali film ‘Aaleya’, directed by Bengal deputy inspector-general (traffic) Humayun Kabir.
 
 There is a clampdown on the words ‘Ahmedabad’, ‘Jai Shri Ram’, ‘Kafer’ and ‘Trishuley genthey (pinned to trident)’ as well.
 
 “There was a lengthy discussion at the CBFC office on Friday. The film has a reference to the 2002 riots and how they have impacted the lives of people even in Bengal. We have tried to show that fundamentalists exist in both Muslim and Hindu communities. It is a fact that riots did happen in   during February and March 2002. We have nothing to hide,” director Kabir said.
 
 Without hiding his “disappointment”, Kabir said, “The modifications will help the film get UA certification.”
 
 CBFC regional officer Partha Ghosh, when asked about Friday’s oral hearing where the recommendations were made, said: “We don’t discuss internal matters.”
 
 The film revolves around actor   playing a cop, who investigates the murder of Aaleya (played by  ).
 
 Actor Goutam Halder, who plays Aaleya’s father, utters most of the controversial words in the scene that has attracted the CBFC’s attention. He gets into a war of words with her schoolteachers, while refusing to allow Aaleya to play Holi in school, and refers to how a community was targeted during the Gujarat riots. Aaleya’s schoolteachers insist that all acts of riots have elicited protests and that such incidents do not happen in Bengal.
 
 The CBFC is expected to issue the official show-cause notice to the makers with the recommendations on Monday. “We want to release the film a day before Eid. We have decided to accept the recommendations since we have been assured that the pace and the spirit of the film will not be hampered despite the mutes,” Kabir said.
 
 Film maker Aniket Chattopadhyay, the creative director and script writer of ‘Aaleya’, says the CBFC has recommended muting the words ‘Jai Shri Ram’ from a dialogue showing sloganeering right-wingers wearing headbands but has gone easy on ‘Har Har Mahadev’ in the same scene. “The CBFC’s sensitivity towards ‘Jai Shri Ram’ is new,” Chattopadhyay said.
 
 
