INDORE: "Where are the tournaments here during the Ranji Trophy season? How should I show my form to the selectors," a Vidarbha player, who was omitted from the squad three years ago, had told TOI. 

 The player wanted to get back into the team but it wasn't possible as there were hardly any longer format tournaments in Nagpur. For the past eight years,   has been conducting MN Dorairajan multi-day tournament but it is organized before the season. This year, VCA conducted a two-day   tournament during Ranji season, which has given them the result. 
 
 With   and   chosen as two wicketkeepers, there was hardly any scope for  . There was no competitive cricket left for him, except for Guzder League, as he has crossed 23 now. Wadkar scored a hundred and three fifties in Guzder League. In between, Vidarbha were struggling with wicketkeepers. While Sharma was good with the gloves, he didn't do much with the bat and was shown the door after two matches. 
 
 Wath was impressive with the bat in the last season, where his twin fifties against Rajasthan helped Vidarbha to outright victory. However, he was clumsy behind wicket and that affected his performance with the bat. He too was dropped after the Services game. 
 
 "Now, our selectors watch Guzder League matches. While Wadkar was always in the fray, since he was leading the Under-23 side last year, the selectors watched him during Guzder and gave a positive feedback to the team management," a source in VCA told TOI. 
 
 Wadkar impressed coach   with his attitude. "He kept very well in his debut game against Goa and that helped his confidence," he said. 
 
 The quarterfinal was the big test for Wadkar and he passed that with flying colours. He scored twin fifties against Kerala. He continued his good performance against Karnataka in the semis where he had important stand with   in the second innings. Now, he has almost sealed Delhi's fate with a composed century. 
 
 "Had it not been Guzder League, Wadkar wouldn't have been playing Ranji Trophy today," Wadkar's childhood coach   said. "Starting this tournament is a great move by VCA. Wadkar wasn't in good form when the season started. These matches helped him regain his form and confidence. When he was recalled, Wadkar was ready. It's a win-win situation for both Wadkar and for the VCA," said Bakre.
 
