PANAJI:   is awaiting his visa to travel to Qatar later this week. It won’t be a holiday for him after an exhaustive tour of Europe with the  . The U-16 coach is on a scouting mission to Qatar and believes he will have a better idea of what group favourites Iran may have up their sleeve when the AFC U-16 Championship kicks off in Malaysia in September.

 
 
 India have been clubbed with Iran, the 2016 runnersup, Vietnam and Indonesia in group C. Two teams from the group will qualify for the quarterfinals, and should India make it to the semifinals – for the first time ever – they would have earned a ticket to the Fifa U-17 World Cup 2019 in Peru.
 
 “I’ve asked our video analyst for details of all our opponents, and even those who we could face at the knockout stage. I want their track record for the last five years,” said Bibiano.
 
 It wouldn’t take much research to discover that Iran are the strongest in the group. They should have won the title in Goa in 2016 but instead succumbed to the might of Iraq, a team India held to a draw during the qualifiers. Vietnam gave a good account of themselves during the last edition and qualified from a group that also had Japan, Australia and Kyrgyz Republic. Indonesia didn’t participate in the last edition after being banned by Fifa.
 
 “Honestly, it doesn’t matter to us who we are up against. At this level, there won’t be any easy games and we must prepare for every game thinking we will face the strongest team. The boys know what they will encounter,” said Bibiano.
 
 Currently on a 10-day break, Bibiano said the tour to Europe has done the boys’ confidence a world of good. “The matches against United States and Norway, in particular, helped instil a belief that we can measure up to the best,” said Bibiano.
 
 India played twice against United States and lost both games by a solitary goal. Against Norway, India missed a penalty, made a crucial defensive lapse in the second half and, despite some encouraging moments, lost 1-3.
 
 “Believe me, this team has some quality which I have not seen in other teams. They are a special group. We will be the underdogs in Malaysia but I have a feeling this group can do something special,” said the former India midfielder.
 
 The All India   Federation ( ) spent heavily on the India U-17 squad for the Fifa World Cup last year and, backed by the Sports Authority of India (SAI), has continued its spending on the U-16 team’s preparations for the AFC U-16 Championship. No Indian team has qualified for the Fifa World Cup on merit – India qualified as hosts in 2017 – but, whatever the odds, Bibiano has been left in no doubt that they have a chance.
 
 “This team can achieve what no one else did before,” said Bibiano.
 
 
