GURUGRAM: An   by the education department has revealed that 24 private schools in Gurugram have not admitted any student under the economically weaker sections ( ) category in the past two years for the sessions 2016-17 and 2017-18. However, no action has been taken against these schools yet.

 Under Rule 134-A of Haryana School Education Rules, 2003, all private schools have to reserve 10% seats under the EWS category. 
 
 District education officer   said, “We do not have any information about schools which have not given admission under the EWS category. 
 
 “If we get a list of such schools, appropriate action will be taken against them. The 2017-19 admissions will be supervised more efficiently than admissions in previous years.”
 
 The reply to   activist Aseem Takyar’s query names some prominent schools which have refused admissions to students belonging to economically weaker sections of society. 
 
 All of the 24 schools had got land from Huda, according to the RTI reply. Schools constructed on Huda land have to reserve 20% seats for students under the EWS and below poverty line (BPL) categories. 
 
 However, all the schools completely ignored the rule. Huda estate officer-II   said, “This is a sensitive issue and the RTI raises valid points. The schools which refused admissions under the EWS category should face inquiry.” 
 
 He added, “We keep these rules in mind when we allot land for construction of schools. If the education department tells us that some schools are violating the norms, we will definitely take steps against them. An investigation should be carried out to find out which schools are not giving admissions under the EWS category and they should be asked to give reasons for the same.” 
 
 Takyar said, “Huda has sought replies from the schools but none of them have replied yet. It is mandatory for schools to put up notice boards within their premises, notifying citizens about their right to admissions under the EWS category. However, I have never seen any such notice board in city schools.”
 
 Vaibhav Kapoor, principal of Ajanta Public School, said, “The information received through the RTI is incorrect. We have always given admissions to students under the EWS category. 
 
 “These students are given admissions based on BPL and other necessary documents that their parents give us. We have also provided information in this regard to the department concerned on a regular basis. However, a private unaided school is not bound to share any information with a third party, according to high court orders.”
 
 Aditi Mishra, principal of Delhi Public School (DPS), Sector 45, said, “This is false news. We give admission to every child sent to us by the education department.”
 
 
 
