NOIDA: Given the onset of summer,   rues   activity of children especially in   because the parks/playgrounds lack proper swings, slides and other   Citing that most sector parks' swings, slides etc. are either broken or non-existent, the RWA federation has demanded authority to provide the same at the earliest along with regular watering of the parks where the grass and plants are dying due to excessive heat.

 “We have got many complaints from sector RWAs such as sectors 19, 20, 27, 34, 51, 62, 63 and more that parks in the sectors do not have proper play area for the children. Either the parks are landscaped or amusement swings and slides are missing in them. Wherever there are swings and other play items for children, they are mostly broken and in need of immediate repair or replacement. Therefore we have requested Noida authority to look into attending to all parks in residential sectors as its summer months and children are unable to play in playgrounds in the absence of proper swings for them,’ said N P Singh, president Federation of   Welfare Associations (FONRW).
 
 Singh has also urged authority to attend to the maintenance of sector parks which are mostly languishing with dried plants, grass and proper seasonal trees in the absence of proper watering in them. “The parks in sector 20 are in immediate need of attention. Recently MLA Pankaj Singh visited our sector (March 9) last week and noted the overgrown shrubs, plants, garbage and dried grass in the parks and gave instructions to officials of the horticulture department. It’s been four days and there’s no action on ground yet. 
 
 The parks need immediate watering and pruning of shrubs so that children and residents can use them,” said Suresh Tiwari, resident of sector 20 and senior vice president FONRWA.
 
 Earlier last month sector 51 RWA had complained to authority over the need for maintenance and repair of children’s park in the sector. “No proper watering of parks is happening and with some being landscaped the children are unable to find space to play in the evenings. We urge authority to look into the demand for broken swing replacement and proper maintenance of sector parks,” said Singh.
 
