The man credited with being the  ,  , was commissioned by the   to document the aftermath of the 1857 revolt. While on assignment, the   probably shot the earliest   and might also hold the notorious distinction of being the first person to stage a war photograph – it’s believed he had the skeletal remains of Indian rebels rearranged to heighten a picture’s dramatic impact.

 Sarmaya Collection’s debut exhibition, ‘Portrait of a Nation, A Nation in Portraits’, will showcase 19th century photographs beginning with the 1857 revolt. “The First War of Independence spurred a lot of photography of India,” explains conservation architect Abha Narain Lambah, who designed the exhibition. “It drew the British audience’s attention to places like Lucknow, Cawnpore (now Kanpur) and Delhi because those were the major sites of the revolt.”
 
 
 The exhibition will be on display at Ballard Estate’s Pundole Art Gallery from January 24 to February 28. “It seeks to create a portrait of a nation though unaltered historical portraits of its people, landscapes and monuments,” explains curator Madhavan Pillai. “It tells the story of not just the evolution of photography, but of the evolving idea of a nation through the eyes of rulers, reporters and explorers, both indigenous and foreign.”
 
 Paul Abraham, a banker who has spent the last five years collecting 19th century photographs, founded Sarmaya – a curated repository of art, artefacts and living traditions from the Indian subcontinent – in 2015. Fittingly, his interest in photography also began with the 1857 revolt. “I was collecting coins from the Mughal era, which ended in 1857,” explains Abraham. “I then went hunting for evidence of the Mutiny and that’s when I stumbled on a cache of photographs by Felice Beato, which started my journey into photographs.”
 
 Beato’s images raised public interest about India in Britain, which led to European photographers travelling to the subcontinent to document its people, culture and monuments. One such accomplished British landscape photographer was Samuel Bourne, whose images of Kashmir, Khyber Pass, Peshawar and the Himalayas will be on display. There will also be sections devoted to India’s built heritage, human portraits and ‘carte de visites’, a precursor to today’s visiting card. “You had these little cards where you would print your photograph in all your regalia as a calling card,” explains Lambah. “If I were a 19th century aristocrat, I would go to a very chic studio in London or France, wearing my finest jewellery, and literally put my best foot forward to make an impression on the world. This is the great grandfather of the WhatsApp display picture.”
 
 Abraham, who has 2,000-3,000 salt, silver and albumen prints – all created using different photographic processes – has often had to outwit other collectors to get his hands on rare images in mint condition. “There was this album of Indian monuments with a London collector and another person was interested in the same album,” recalls Abraham. “Finally, I told him that these are photographs from India, so don’t you think their rightful place is back in India?”
 
 Abraham explains in his collector’s note that people often forget how much effort was required to produce these pictures. “It often meant 30-40 people carrying equipment weighing as much as 50-100 kilos at times and containers filled with chemicals, setting up base in hostile and lonely territory,” he explains. “With long exposures, one had to choose the moment carefully and get the composition right — it was time-consuming and expensive to be sitting somewhere inhospitable, waiting for conditions to fall in place. Each photograph, in some sense, is therefore a unique work of art.”
 
 
