MUMBAI: For the first time in the 150-year history of the  , employees would be made co-owners of its flagship entity. The $45-billion   plans to hand over a little less than half a percent of its equity to employees through a stock options plan. With this move, the auto major leaves behind the group’s other big revenue generators like the $20-billion   and the $19-billion  .

 
 Traditionally, the $103-billion Tata Group has been reluctant to issue stocks to employees. Although, over the last decade, it has been open to employing this tool to attract and retain talent — especially in smaller companies like Trent, Tata Capital and Tata Technologies. At TCS’ shareholder meetings, the conglomerate’s chairman emeritus Ratan Tata had defended the commissions and compensation paid to top executives, saying that they don’t have stock options like others. Employee stock options ( ) have been made popular by IT firms in India with Infosys being one of the first to offer shares to its staff in the 1990s.
 
  
  
 
 Tata Motors intends to reward 200 employees from executive directors to general managers with stock options, with plans to extend it to the junior management level subsequently. “It was a big call for the company to take,” said a senior Tata Motors executive.
 
 The employee ownership move will help to rein in  , which had increased from 8.5% in fiscal 2017 to 10% in fiscal 2018. Tata Motors’ domestic business had 11,140 white collar staff as on March 31. The ESOP scheme, to be taken up at the company’s forthcoming annual shareholder meet for approval, will not exceed 0.4% of the automaker’s equity and will allow employees to buy Tata Motors’ shares between 2021 and 2023.
 
 Tata Motors CFO P B Balaji said at a conference with analysts, “This is to ring-fence critical talent during the turnaround phase and to match employee payoffs to the long-term gestation period of key initiatives like new product development.” The company has been making lot of efforts to become profitable on a standalone basis by enhancing sales, reducing costs and launching vehicles on time. In fiscal 2018, it narrowed its losses from Rs 2,335 crore in fiscal 2017 to Rs 992 crore.
 
 It is not clear whether the Tata Group will look at doing this (implementation of ESOPs) in a major way at other group companies, including the $1.6-billion Tata Chemicals and Indian Hotels Company (owner of the Taj chain).
 
 Industry observers said that the ESOPs by Tata Motors may be one of the ways of compensating its top management, especially when it is making losses. Rules mandate that the remuneration of whole-time directors can’t exceed 5% of a company’s profits. Since Tata Motors is a loss-making entity, it faces challenges in compensating its directors. In case a company intends to exceed this 5% limit, it has to take approvals from the central government and also from minority shareholders.
 
 
