GURUGRAM: A 10-year-old rape survivor was left unattended in her blood-soaked clothes and excruciating pain for around 11 hours at Gurugram Civil Lines Hospital, in another alleged case of medical negligence that came to light barely a month after a 25-year-old woman was forced to deliver a baby in the open in front of the emergency ward of the hospital.

 The doctors and paramedical staff attended to the minor girl and gave her clean clothes only following an intervention from the Child Welfare Committee’s chairperson next morning. Later, the girl, with injuries in her private parts, was referred to Delhi’s  , where she is currently recuperating. The minor girl was raped allegedly by a 38-year-old neighbour, who lured her to his room with candies when she was at home only with her four-year-old sister in a slum near Tikri village on Monday afternoon. The child was rushed to the general hospital around 12 hours later after her mother found the child limping and crying in pain.
 
 Sources at the hospital revealed that the girl was brought in between 1am and 2am on Tuesday. But, neither the mother, who was unaware of the sexual assault on her daughter, nor the girl, who is too young to understand what sexual abuse or rape is, could not explain what the problem was.
 
 It took Dr Stuti, who was on duty at the gynaecology ward, around one-and-a-half hours to counsel the child and find out what that she was raped. The police were informed around 4.45am. Subsequently, the hospital staff gave her first-aid and left her on a bed. Around 11am on Tuesday,  , chairperson of the   (CWC), visited the hospital after police informed her about the minor’s rape. “The girl was still in her blood-stained clothes without any medical care throughout the morning. It was a clear case of negligence towards a rape victim,” Dhull said.
 
 It was only after Dhull raised the matter with the hospital authorities that the staff provided the girl a change, a bed sheet and gave her a sponge bath. Finally, around noon, when doctors checked her, they noticed that the child had suffered deep injuries in her urethra. As there is no urology specialist in Gurugram, the girl was referred to the Safdarjung hospital almost 12 hours after she was brought to the Civil Lines hospital.
 
 Later in the day, the matter was reported to the district health department, which has ordered a probe into the matter. “A panel of three doctors checked the child before she was referred to the Delhi hospital. An inquiry has been marked in the matter for delay in detailed analysis and medical treatment,” said a senior health official.
 
 As TOI reported on Thursday, the 38-year-old man, identified as Suresh Kumar alias Dharmpal, a mason from Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly district, was arrested on Tuesday night. He has been booked under Section 6 (punishment for sexual assault) of POCSO Act and sent to judicial custody.
 
 
