GHAZIABAD:   persons were   on Thursday for allegedly misleading   on events leading to the death of 45-year-old factory owner Rajiv Chauhan in Hindon Vihar on May 23. Family members of Chauhan, who was found dead with a gunshot wound in his head, had alleged that he had been murdered by their 20-year-old domestic help and her kin.

 
 However, on the basis of call detail records of mobile phones and circumstantial evidence, police arrived at the conclusion on Thursday that Chauhan had shot himself dead. Police have arrested Chauhan’s brothers-in-law Avnish and Sanjeev. Two others — Neeraj, a friend of Sanjeev; and Rajesh alias Chander, who worked in Chauhan’s factory — have also been arrested. Chauhan’s wife, Anju, who had lodged the complaint against the help and four of her family members, is at large.
 
 According to police, Chauhan had been in an illicit relationship with the domestic help for the past around three years after promising to marry her. The help’s family members had been pressuring him to marry her and also extorted money from him to keep the relationship a secret. Police said her’s family members were also miffed because Chauhan had humiliated her in public on a few occasions.
 
 Chauhan committed suicide in a lane behind his factory, Shagun Enterprises, on the evening of May 23 after leaving home. Sources said he had allegedly called his wife on her mobile phone threatening that he will commit suicide in order to escape social humiliation for his affair with the help. He then turned the gun on himself.
 
 “Chauhan’s kin assembled after the suicide and decided to twist facts so that the help and her family members would be jailed. They wanted to teach them a lesson so they hid the country-made revolver, with which Chauhan had killed himself, inside the factory. It was recovered on Thursday. Chauhan’s wife Anju was also a part of the conspiracy to distort the facts. We are making efforts to nab her,” Ghaziabad SSP Vaibhav Krishna told TOI.
 
 An FIR was registered under IPC sections 193 (punishment for   evidence) and 195 (fabricating false evidence to procure conviction punishable with life imprisonment) at Sihani Gate police station.
 
