HYDERABAD: The Insolvency Resolution Professional (IRP) overseeing the corporate insolvency resolution proceedings against beleaguered Hyderabad-based Deccan Chronicle Holdings Ltd (DCHL), on Friday filed an application before the   ( ) at Hyderabad seeking more time to conclude the process.

 
 Canara Bank, the main complainant in the case, too supported the plea of the IRP, Mamta Binani. Conveying Canara Bank’s stand, its senior counsel Deepak Bhattacharjee said the tribunal had, in the past, stayed the process following an application by Srei Infrastructure Finance Ltd due to which the proceedings got stalled for 89 days.
 
 Urging the tribunal to grant the IRP the required time to enable her to complete her task, he also pointed out that the IRP was appointed only a month ago and needs some time to take the process forward. After the admission of the insolvency plea against DCHL, the tribunal had granted a moratorium of 180 days to the interim resolution professional, which was later extended by 90 days. Even this extension will draw to a close on April 14, 2018, and unless an extension is granted by the tribunal the company will be heading towards liquidation.
 
 Mamta Binani, in her application, also furnished to the court the progress she has made in the job. She said some companies have expressed interest in acquiring DCHL and she is now engaged in the process of conducting a due diligence on interested parties.
 
 Meanwhile, in a separate but connected development, DCHL MD T Vinayak Ravi Reddy has filed a petition before the NCLT urging it to restrain   (IHFL) from auctioning their ancestral bungalow, which is spread over 4430 sq yd on Raj Bhavan Road, Somajiguda. There are several other buildings and shops along with a lot of open space and the property has nothing to do with the DCHL episode, he said.
 
 Vinayak Ravi Reddy's counsel argued that once the tribunal declares a moratorium, all other legal proceedings against the company and its promoters must come to a standstill. However, contrary to this, the lender is proceeding with the auction on March 31, he said, urging the tribunal to stall the auction process. Though the tribunal did not give him any interim relief, it posted the case to April 3. Indiabulls, a non-banking finance company (NBFC) that lent DCHL ₹93 crore, was aggrieved after the DCHL bosses failed to repay their dues. It had earlier invoked the provisions of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act, 2002, against DCHL but got embroiled in a legal battle that went up to the Supreme Court.
 
 Finally, Indiabulls got the green signal from the apex court, but in the meantime, the corporate insolvency resolution process was initiated against DCHL by  .
 
