DHARWAD: In a sudden development, JD(S) candidate for Hubballi-  West   withdrew his nomination at the last moment on Friday. As a result, there will be no JD(S) candidate to contest against sitting BJP MLA Arvind Bellad and Mohemmed Ismail Tamatgar of the Congress.

 Kittur’s move was not that surprising because of the confusion that had prevailed over who the official candidate of the party was. JD(S) state vice president Gururaj Hunasimarad, who was a ticket aspirant had obtained a B form directly from JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda. But another aspirant and JD(S) corporator Altaf Kittur had rushed to Bengaluru, got another B form and filed the nomination an hour before   filed the papers.
 
 The Returning Officer had considered Kittur as the official JD(S) candidate and rejected Hunasimarad’s claim. An upset Hunasimarad had accused Dharwad district JD(S) president Mujahid Contractor of playing mischief but had accepted Kittur as the official candidate.
 
 However, on Friday afternoon after learning that Kittur had withdrawn his papers, Hunasimarad rushed to election office with an appeal to consider him as the official JD(S) candidate as he had also submitted the B form.
 
 Hunasimarad was stopped by some BJP workers who claimed that he could not go to RO with the appeal as the deadline was over. Tension prevailed at the HDMC office for a while following the altercation between Hunasimarad and BJP workers. Police pacified them.
 
 Hunasimarad said, he would appeal to the district election officer to consider him as the official JD(S) candidate for the constituency and if the EO does not respond favourably, he would approach court.
 
 Why Kittur backedout
 
 Altaf Kittur is said to have been under pressure from Muslim leaders to withdraw from the contest as the Congress had fielded another Muslim Mohemmed Ismail Tamargar from the constituency. They had insisted that Kittur’s presence in the fray would have divided Muslim votes and made BJP’s victory easy.
 
 Sources said the entire episode of Kittur foiling Hunasimarad’s candidature and later withdrawing from the fray at the last moment giving no time for anyone to be the official candidate was pre-planned and there was an understanding between Kittur and Tamatgar.
 
 Whatever may be the reason for Kittur backing out of the fray, it is almost certain that it will be a direct fight between BJP’s Arvind Bellad and Congress nominee Tamatgar in Hubballi-Dharwad West.
 
 
