JALANDHAR: The spat between India and Canada over Khalistan backers refused to die down even after Prime Minister Justin   returned home. On Tuesday, the issue rocked Canadian parliament with the Opposition hitting Trudeau hard during question period over how former Khalistan terrorist   was invited to a reception at the residence of Canadian high commissioner in India. 

 In his defence, Trudeau backed the senior Canadian government official who had hinted that Atwal's presence was orchestrated by "factions within the Indian government" to undermine his visit. Trudeau told the Canadian parliament that when top diplomats or security officials say something to the Canadian government it's because they know it to be true.
 
 
 
 
 The Indian government reacted sharply to the statement saying it had nothing to do with   attending the event in Mumbai or the invitation extended to him for a reception in Delhi, asserting that any suggestion to the contrary was "baseless and unacceptable".
 
 Leading the attack on Trudeau, opposition leader Andrew Scheer asked in parliament, “Will the Prime Minister tell the House whether or not anyone in his office arranged, organized or participated in the media briefing provided to the reporters that included the allegation that government of India was somehow involved in his embarrassing blunder in India?”
 
 Trudeau replied, “....And they do not understand that our professional, non-partisan public service does high quality work. And when one of our top diplomats and security officials says something to Canadians, it's because they know it to be true.”
 
 The controversy over the invite to Atwal had almost ruined Trudeau’s visit to India and landed the Canadian PM in an embarrassing situation. During a background briefing, an unidentified Canadian official had told the Canadian media that Ätwal’s presence was arranged by factions within the Indian government.
 
 The Canadian Press reported on Tuesday that Conservatives identified the official as Trudeau's national security adviser, Daniel Jean, and they pressed Trudeau to say whether he agreed with Jean's "conspiracy theory".
 
 In India, BJP’s ally SAD too had alleged a conspiracy by Indian intelligence agencies to ruin Trudeau’s visit to India. SAD’s Delhi unit chief Manjit Singh GK on February 26 had condemned the treatment meted out to Trudeau by the Centre.
 
 “Every attempt was made to eclipse Trudeau’s visit by government quarters and Congress also played its part in it. There was strong suspicion that Indian intelligence/security agencies hatched a conspiracy to sabotage Trudeau’s visit to India so that he could be branded a Khalistan supporter...,” said GK. Atwal was photographed with Trudeau's wife and Canadian infrastructure minister at a Mumbai event last week, before the Prime Minister's office said an invitation to a subsequent dinner was flagged and rescinded.
 
 
 
