MUMBAI: A study covering nearly 400 teachers from some of the city’s noted to lesser-known schools, found around one percent of them believed  . Nearly 40% of the teachers believed smelling an onion or a chappal was a key  . Merely 11% had thought of summoning an ambulance.

 The eight-month long study covering across 42 schools bares the lack of  . Only one in five teachers knew that laying a person on a flat surface and turning him/her to one side was one of the first things to be done when someone is convulsing. What makes the ignorance more worrying is that the first-aid measures for   and regular fainting, something routinely seen in schools, is the same. 
 
 The idea for the study stemmed from the widespread reluctance of schools to accommodate epileptic children. “We found out two main things during treating children with epilepsy; their parents were hesitant to tell the schools, and secondly, even reputed schools were unwilling to accept such children,” said Dr Pradnya Gadgil, consultant paediatric neurologist at Kokilaben Hospital, Andheri, which carried out the study with Samman Foundation, the Indian Epilepsy Association’s Mumbai chapter.
 
 Epilepsy is the fourth commonest brain disorder, yet it’s shrouded in stigma. Gadgil said that one in 100 in the population will get a seizure once in lifetime, while one in 200 have epilepsy. “Due to the ignorance, people can be scared of seizures as they don't understand what happens and what to do. Children, therefore, are often deprived of a normal life, say going to a picnic or participating in some common activity,” she said.
 
 Pooja Nandi of Samman said, “If a teacher discriminates against an epileptic child, it would make the child’s life miserable. Seizures can manifest in different ways such as the child blanking out for few seconds in class. Such cases even end up getting labelled as learning disability,” she said. The silver lining was that after awareness sessions, 94% of teachers said an epileptic child could go to a normal school. 
 
 
