PANAJI: After three hours spent in talks with mining stakeholders and alliance partners, Union minister for road transport, highways and shipping Nitin   on Tuesday said that they have decided to seek legal opinions from prominent lawyers of the country on the recent Supreme Court order. The order brought about the closure of mining activities in Goa on March 16.

 The opinion of the attorney general of India will also be considered. “Within eight days we will seek his opinion,” Gadkari said, adding that he will meet the advocate general of Goa on Wednesday over the issue. 
 
 Gadkari directed the chief secretary not to act against the agitators who held the state to ransom for around four hours on Monday. Gadkari said “it is not possible to come out” with an ordinance to overrule the apex court order or to bring about an amendment to the   and   (abolition and declaration as mining leases) Act, 1987, to continue mining operations in the state. 
 
 Gadkari said auctioning of mines would bring in revenue for the state and this has been supported by both the apex court’s direction as well as the Centre. He added that if mines are auctioned, then fresh environmental clearances will have to be sought which will take time. The state government has already initiated the process to auction mining leases. 
 
 Gadkari told reporters that the decision to close down mining operations in the state has not been taken by the state or central government but by the apex court. “We have to respect the decision of the highest court,” Gadkari said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is concerned about the people of Goa.
 
 During the meeting, stakeholders told Gadkari that the state government did not represent mining cases properly before the court. “We will seek legal opinions to check if we can fulfill the expectations of mining stakeholders,” he said, adding that stakeholders have been asked to consult retired high court and Supreme Court judges as well as prominent lawyers. 
 
 On Monday the cabinet advisory committee (CAC) had revealed plans to seek the legal expertise of India’s prominent lawyers and had shortlisted Ashok Desai, Mukul Rohtagi and   for the task. The CAC would then chart the future course of action based their input. 
 
 Gadkari said that the state and central governments are sympathetic to the problems of the mining dependent people. “We are concerned about them. There is no bread-butter issue for leases holder immediately,” he said. However, he was quick to add that maintaining law and order would be a priority of the government. 
 
 At the meeting we also addressed the issue raised by mining dependents about truck and barge loan liability and a final decision would be taken soon. “I have asked the administration to find a way out, including handling of dumps, to allow employment of mining dependent people to continue,” he said. Three other options that lie ahead for Goa were also discussed at the meeting. “We will verify those options,” he added.
 
 Evading the question if Goa stood a chance at special status due to the financial crises, Gadkari said that economic special status issue is a political one and “we are very cautious and our government is very supportive of Goa and have given a lot of financial aid as compared to the previous government”. 
 
 
