On Saturday morning, the   music fraternity woke up to news that left many of them in shock. On Friday night, Punjabi singing sensation  , popular for his song ‘Gaal Ni Kadni’, was shot at in   while he was returning home after a performance. The singer, who is out of danger now, was shot in his knee near Sector 91, Mohali, by unidentified people who followed his car till the highway even after firing at him. The bullets hit the   and another team member and close friend,  . 

 
 
 A source close to Parmish’s team tells us, “Parmish has been getting ransom calls for two months now. Since we had many shows lined up, we could not cancel them, so he had informed the   in Mohali about the calls. They were kept in the loop about the ransom calls and Parmish had been following what the police had told him to do while dealing with such calls.”
 
  
  Parmish Verma during his performance at KMC in Delhi
 
 
 
 The source adds, “On Friday, after midnight (12.30am on Saturday), Parmish and his team and bouncers left for his home. A Hyundai Creta began following them, but the bouncers and his team did not pay much attention to the car as they thought that it was just some fans who must be chasing Parmish for selfies. So they ignored it. His team and bouncers stopped at Parmish’s house, and after the payment was made to the bouncers, they left. Since Parmish had not eaten anything after the gig, he, his brother and Laadi decided to go to JW Marriot to eat. As they were heading to the hotel, they noticed that the same car was following them again. Unhone pehle gaadi ki speed badha li, but the car kept chasing them. Jaise hi yeh log Sector 91 enter karne wale thay, woh car inke ekdum paas aayi, aur unhone goliyan chala di. The attack was meant to kill him, but since the cars were moving, the bullet hit Parmish’s knee. Another bullet hit Laadi’s knee. They managed to reach the highway, but then the car stopped because a bullet had perhaps hit one of the tyres. The assailants’ car was still coming after them. They managed to hide somewhere and then called the SSP, who reached the location quickly and took them all to Fortis hospital.”
 
 Reacting to the FB post in which   Dilpreet Singh Dahan claimed responsibility for the attack, he says, "There were around four -five people in their car. Parmish and his friends could not see anybody's face, so we can't be sure if it's the same person. That is the job of the police to find out.”
 
  
  Gangster   posted this picture on Facebook claiming to have tried to shoot the singer.
 
 
 
 The source says, “He and Laadi are both fine now. Many Punjabi singers came to visit him and they all were worried because how can you control thousands of fans? Unmein se koi bhi kuch bhi kar sakta hai. And I will not take names, but this is not the first time that an artist has received ransom calls. An artist is made by fans, how can he stop performing? Is it so easy to attack a singer in the middle of the road?”
 
 Meanwhile, Parmish has reacted to the attack with a Facebook post:
  
  
 
  
 
