MUMBAI: The Khar police which arrested   for stalking and sexually harassing a Delhi woman, said it suspects more victims will come forward. Khar police had filed an FIR against the Bandra (W) resident on December 29 following a preliminary probe. 

 This happened after the   forwarded five complaints against Murthy to the state DGP and then filed a complaint attaching copies of objectionable WhatsApp messages and sexual remarks made against women by him. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Khar police said the targeted women, who are from Mumbai, Delhi and other parts of the country, include a government officer, a journalist, and an HR professional. 
 
 Some of the experiences that the women shared ranged from inappropriate electronic messages and verbal advances to physical grabbing. 
 
 
 “So far five women have come forward with complaints against Murthy. It is suspected that more will come forward now. Statements of all the women will be recorded,” said a Khar police officer. 
 
 Khar police senior inspector   confirmed Murthy’s arrest and said he had been booked for stalking (IPC section 354-D), sexual harassment (section 509) and publishing or transmitting obscene material (section 67, IT Act). 
 
 When TOI sent a text to Murthy seeking his version, he replied via WhatsApp: “I received anticipatory bail in this case some time ago. I am told it’s a procedural technical arrest and Ihave already been released on the bail granted earlier. This is exactly the same issue on which I had filed a case earlier and where the Delhi high court had already passed an interim order in my favour and against the complainant back in April 2017. I believe this is an attempt to counter-sue. I will fight this too in court to defend my reputation to the fullest of my ability.” Reacting to the arrest, author  , who accused Murthy of harassing her, said she was happy to hear that the case was moving towards its logical conclusion. “I felt com pelled to speak about what I went through after I realised that a couple of young girls had spoken out and no one was willing to believe them,’’ Bansal said. 
 
 She added that she had received a lot of support after she went public with her experience. “I hope this is a signal to people in positions of power that they must be wise and responsible,’’ she added. Murthy denied the allegations in a post on medium.com dismissing the complaints as misunderstandings and fabrications by disgruntled people.
 
