MOUNT MAUNGANUI: A quarter-final berth already secured, India will be aiming to keep their unbeaten run intact when they take on another weak opponent in Zimbabwe in the ICC Under-19 World Cup on Friday.

 
 A confidence-boosting win against past champions Australia and demolition of   has put India in a comfortable position and they can experiment a bit before the knockout stage.
 
 The only test for the Indians was their tournament-opener against Australia, who they thumped by 100 runs, courtesy an all-round show by the last edition's finalists.
 
 Indian fast bowlers Kamlesh Nagrakoti and   have impressed with their testing pace so far and it remains to be seen if legendary coach   fields them again or keeps them fresh for the quarter-finals.
 
 Vidarbha bowler Aditya Thakare, called as a cover for an injured Ishan Porel, might get a chance. Porel is nursing a bruised left heal and was replaced by Arshdeep Singh in the match against PNG.
 
 India's bowling unit has looked in complete control with left-arm spinner   complementing his pace colleagues well.
 
 India's top-order batsmen, led by skipper Prithvi  , are also in sublime form and are yet to be tested under difficult situations.
 
 They are expected to make merry against Zimbabwe's attack, plundered by the Australians during their seven-wicket win yesterday.
 
 Barring an upset win for Zimbabwe tomorrow, India and Australia will progress to the quarterfinals from Group B.
 
 India will top the Group with their third win a row and will be followed by Australia, who have two wins from three matches.
 
 India have not lost to Zimbabwe in any of the four matches so far, with the first contested way back in 2005 during the Afro-Asian Under-19 Cup.
 
 
 
 
 
  Prithvi Shaw (C), Shubman Gill, Aryan Juyal, Abhishek Sharma, Arshdeep Singh, Harvik Desai, Manjot Kalra, Kamlesh Nagarkoti, Pankaj Yadav, Riyan Parag, Himanshu Rana, Anukul Roy, Shivam Mavi, Shiva Singh.
 
 
    (C), Robert Chimhinya, Jonathan Connolly, Alistair Frost, Taun Harrison, Wesley Madhevere, Tanunurwa Makoni, Donald Mlambo, Tinashe Nenhunzi, Nkosilatu Nunu, Kieran Robinson, Jayden Schadendorf and Milton Shumba.
 
