Chennai: The   candidates contesting in the   election cannot use the   symbol, as they failed to adhere to schedule in submitting the relevant documents to the Election Commission. In November 2017, the Election Commission recognised the unified AIADMK and allotted the party the two leaves symbol. 

 The party on Saturday announced three candidates, party state secretary M P Yuvaraj (Gandhi Nagar), R P Vishnukumar (Hanur) and M Anbu (Kolar Gold Field) for May 12 Karnataka assembly  . The contestants filed the nominations on Tuesday, the last day for filing papers. Karnataka joint chief electoral officer K N Ramesh said the candidates did not apply for common symbol (two leaves) in the prescribed period. “AIADMK is not a recognized party in Karnataka. The unrecognized party will have to apply to the commission under Sections 10 (a) and (b) of The Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968, not later than the third day after the publication of election notification. AIADMK has not done that and they will not get the two leaves  ,” the officer told TOI over phone. The poll was notified on April 17.
 
 Ramesh said the AIADMK candidates will get a free symbol for the independent candidates. “The allotment of free symbols will be made on April 27, the last day of withdrawal of nominations,” he said. Gandhi Nagar candidate and Karnataka state secretary Yuvaraj said he handed over a ‘letter’ given by the party headquarters to Karnataka election office on Monday. “We don’t know what was written in the letter, but we learned about it through media that we will not be contesting in two leaves symbol. Only party leadership has to decide on further course of action,” he told TOI. 
 
 AIADMK has been contesting in assembly and general elections in two leaves symbol for over two decades in Karnataka. B Muniappa won in 1994 from Gandhi Nagar.
 
 Under Sections 10 (a) and (b) of The Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968. It states that if a political party, which is recognised as a state party in some state or states, sets up a candidate in any other state in which it is not recognized, then such candidate may be allotted the symbol reserved for that party in the state in which it is recognized on the fulfilment of certain conditions. The conditions include, that application is made to the commission for allotment of that symbol not later than the third day after the publication of election notification.
 
 
