RAJKOT: A non-resident Indian ( ) living in the US was detained at the Bhuj airport after a satellite phone was found in his possession on Thursday.

 NRI Navin Chandra Dimond, who has his roots in  , was part of a group of nearly 25 people who had come on a visit to Kutch. The Iridium satellite LLC model no 9579 was found from Dimond during baggage scanning. 
 
 When a   offiical asked him to produce the licence for the phone, he was unable to do so.
 
 The phone was switched off when seized.
 
 Dimond is the president and chief exeuctive officer of a hospitality companies group headquartered in Denver, Colorado.
 
 He has been living in the US for over three decades now.
 
 The CISF then handed over Dimond to A-division police station in Bhuj, which has lodged a non-cognizable offence.
 
 M S Bharda, superintendent of Kutch (west), said, “We have asked permission from the Union home ministry to lodge an FIR against the holder of this satellite phone. We are interrogating him and others and more details would emerge only after their questioning is completed.” 
 
 The investigation has been handed over to the   (SOG). During questioning, Dimond told the police that he had brought the satellite phone to India earlier too but was never detained. 
 
 Dimond will not be kept in police custody but he will will have to remain in Bhuj as other security agencies will question him on Friday. 
 
 Talking to mediapersons, police station inspector, A-division police station, M N Chauhan said, “The group came to India on tourist visas. We have seized the phone and different investigation agencies are interrogating him to know since how many days they are in India and if this phone was activated during their stay here.”However, police sources said that Dimond will be allowed to go after questioning as he has assured to extend cooperation in the investigation.
 
 The satellite phones were banned in India after handlers of 10 Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists had used them during the Mumbai terror attacks in November 2008. The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security had issued a circular in 2012 to all airports to detain passengers carrying these phones.
 
 The customs department had als oissued guidelines after few cases of these prohibited phones being brought to India in baggage and being used by anti-national elements. Since 2010, it is mandatory for passenger importing satellite phone in baggage to declare it at the customs on arrival at any airport in India.
 
 
