To be blind to the massive contribution of  ,   and films towards Tamil cinema in the past would be like Vadivelu inquiring about the whereabouts of Howrah Bridge while being right under it in the film ‘Aadhavan’. But, while Howrah bridge still stands tall, decades of Bengal’s hold on Tamil cinema are hidden in the dusty annals of history. 

 In the 1950s, Kannadasan, then a struggling lyricist and dialogue writer, would yearn to be groomed as a director by Bengali filmmaker Debaki Bose; it might have materialised had the poet not fallen homesick in Kolkata, (then Calcutta) while trying his hand at the dialogues of ‘Ratnadeep’s’ Tamil version (1952). But when Kannadasan produced his first film ‘Maalai Itta Mangai’ (1958), it was Sarat Chandra’s ‘Chandranath’ to which he turned.
 
 As a medium driven by technology, cinema grew first in Calcutta and Bombay, while Madras lagged behind a bit for a decade. ‘Cinema Rani’ T P Rajalakshmi, who reigned in the first decade of the Tamil talkie, shot a steady stream of films in Calcutta’s premier filmmaking studios in the 1930s.
 
 American director Ellis R Dungan, after attending one of the musical soirees of the blind singer K C Dey decided to have him score the background music for the Tyagaraja Bhagavathar-starrer ‘Ambikapathi’ (1937), while it was being made in Calcutta’s East India Film Company studios. Bhagavathar’s first soaring hit ‘Chintamani’ too had background music by the eponymous orchestra of the Dev-Dutta studios.
 
 Hit tunes from films made in Bengal were also copied in Tamil films — hit songs of K L Saigal and K C Dey honed in Calcutta’s New Theatres echoed in various voices in Tamil cinema.
 
 Even as Tamil artists queued up in Calcutta’s studios, the reverse trend of the city’s technicians migrating to Madras had begun. One of the first to come over to Madras was Jiten Banerji who arrived at the Silent Cinema stage. He was later director of photography for iconic films like M K Thyagaraja Bhagavathar’s ‘Tiruneelakantar’ (1939) and MS’s ‘Meera’. Cinematographers like Sailen Bose (‘Thyaga Bhoomi’, ‘Nandanar’) and Kamal Ghosh (‘Kacha Devayani’, ‘Chandralekha’) made waves with their work and also trained local talent.
 
 Director K Subramanyam who had attracted such talent from Calcutta, also drew ace makeup man Haripada Chandra aka Haribabu to Madras. Peethambaram by whose work N T Rama Rao and MGR swore by, was an understudy of Haribabu.
 
 Sound engineer Mukul Bose who came to Madras in the evening of his life brought new recording techniques to the city. “He was a gentle genius who came over from Bombay to AVM and presided over the music production of ‘Paava Mannippu’ whose songs made waves,’’ says veteran sound engineer Sampath who was Bose’s assistant then.
 
 ‘Devadas’ (1937, Sarat Chandra), ‘Matrubhoomi’ (1938, based on Dwijendralal Roy’s play ‘Chandragupta’) and ‘Gumasthavin Penn’ (1941, based on Nirupama Devi’s ‘Annapurnaar Mandir’) were a few Tamil films based on Bengali originals. But from the early 1950s both Tamil and Telugu cinema began to look to Bengal for interesting middle class themes as the Puranic era had ended and the stage was shrinking day by day.
 
 This is the milieu in which Arun Chowdhury’s ‘Pasher Badi’ (1952) became ‘Pakkinti Ammayi’ (1953) in Telugu, was copied in bits in ‘Kalynanam Panniyum Brahmachari’ (1954), before having its full Tamil remake in ‘Adutha Veettu Penn’ (1960). Playwright and novelist Manilal Banerjee’s novel ‘Swayamsiddha’ was made in Hindi in 1949 and in Tamil in 1956 (Pennin Perumai).
 
 Premier studios like AVM had their eyes turned eastward, picking up ‘Kuladeivam’ (1956) from ‘Banga Kora’ and ‘Naanum Oru Penn’ (1963) from ‘Kala Bou’. Sivaji Ganesan stood tall in ‘Uyarndha’ Manidhan’ (1968) based on ‘Uttar Purush’ while Sowcar Janaki, seeking to add zip to her career did a double role apart from being producer in ‘Kaaviya Thalaivi’ based on ‘Uttar Phalguni’. The Tamil celluloid calendars of the 1950s and 1960s are filled with such cross fertilisations from Bengal, but the phenomenon tapered off, and today Bengali commercial cinema is rehashing potboilers from Telugu and Tamil cinema. How the wheel turns!
 
 (The writer is a historian of Tamil cinema and author of books on the subject)
 
 
