HYDERABAD: In a genetic twist to breast and ovary cancers in Indian women, a team of researchers from different cities, including Hyderabad has found a high prevalence of mutations (sudden changes) in genes. The mutation incidence is as high as 30%. 

 Mutations in genes identified as BRCA1, BRCA2, TP53 and PALB2 are responsible for high incidence of breast and ovary cancers in the country. Normally, changes in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes result in cancers in women around the world. In contrast, mutations in other genes like TP53 and PALB2 in Indian populations are also associated with ovary and breast cancers.
 
 
  
 
  “Our findings show among Indians, there is a high prevalence of mutations in high-risk   genes BRCA1, BRCA2, TP53, and PALB2,” said researchers drawn from over 12 research institutes and hospitals across the country. The research study was published in the latest issue of the scientific journal — Breast Cancer Research and Treatment.
 
 Stating that in India, socioeconomic inequality is limiting access to cancer treatment researchers recommended incorporation of a cost-effective and comprehensive multi-gene test for widespread implementation of genetic screening in clinical practice for hereditary breast or ovarian cancers. “When cases were stratified on age and family history of cancer, high rate of 75% of detection of hereditary variants was observed in patients whose age at diagnosis was below 40 and had first-degree family member(s) affected by breast and/or ovarian cancers,” they said.
 
 As part of multi-city research, over 1,000 Indian patients with breast and/or ovarian cancer with a multi-gene panel were studied for prevalence of BRCA1/2 and non-BRCA mutations (TP53 and PALB2). “Breast or ovarian cancers are among the most common in women across the world. Among Indians, the healthcare burden of breast and/or ovarian cancers has been rising. Early detection, surveillance and disease management steps are important. However, the burden attributable to inherited mutations is not well characterized,” researchers said, adding that to decode genetic mystery they sequenced 1010 unrelated patients and families from across India with an indication of breast and/or ovarian cancers. As many as 14 genes that form the ‘cancer panel’ were analysed.
 
 Of 1,010 people studied, the team detected mutations in 304(30.1%) cases, of which, 56 mutations were novel. Majority (84.9%) were detected in BRCA1/2 genes as compared to non-BRCA genes (15.1%).
 
 
 
