NEW DELHI:   president   on Tuesday said he was ready to become the Prime Minister if his party came out on top in the 2019 elections, making plain his readiness in the last leg of the   campaign and amid efforts by the opposition to cobble a front against the ruling BJP.

 
 Asked if he was ready to become the PM, Rahul said, “Well, it depends... it depends on how well the Congress does in the election. I mean, if it emerges as the biggest party, yes.” The exchange came during an interactive session with prominent Bengaluru citizens organised by Samruddha Bharat Foundation.
 
 Rahul spelling out his willingness came along with his forecast that BJP was set for a defeat in 2019. “I am pretty convinced that Modi is not going to be the PM. I can see it in his face. He knows it,” the Congress mascot said.
 
 The remarks on video instantly dominated air and web time, sparking queries if it could hurt the interests of opposition unity, where many potential partners are sceptical of accepting the Congress leadership. Congress circles were also taken aback by the remark, debating whether it could deflect attention away from Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah’s bid to retain power. However, they soon overcame the confusion and took to fanning the party chief’s declaration of intent.
 
 Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala said, “Rahul Gandhi is the natural choice for PM. From Kashmir to Kanyakumari and from Porbandar to Mizoram, Congress workers struggle every day to challenge the subjugation of India’s foundational values by the Modi government. Rahul being the Congress president is the obvious choice to lead the country.”
 
 Rahul said Congress expected all opposition parties to rise above personal differences to unite against the “tyrannical” Modi regime. It is not the first time that Rahul, for long seen as a reluctant politician, has expressed willingness to take the top job. He spoke about it last September during an interaction at Berkeley University in the US.
 
 However, the timing of his latest claim to the top job came amid a crucial state election as well as intensive efforts by opposition leaders to forge a large anti-BJP front from a heterogeneous field of regional outfits.
 
 Congress sources argued that while Rahul’s comment came as an instant reaction to an unexpected and tricky question, left to himself he would have chosen a different time to declare his readiness for the top office. But they hoped that the remark might help in the Karnataka campaign by conveying the party’s confidence about its prospects in the state.
 
 There is a belief that success in Karnataka will plant Congress as a direct challenger to BJP and curb the jostling among regional outfits for leadership of the anti-saffron front. 
 
 It will also put Congress as favourite for the face off with BJP. While even a bad result will not change the fact about Congress being the largest opposition party, there is realisation that it will have to keep pushing its claim to leadership of the anti-BJP front.
 
 
