GURUGRAM:  , the idea ‘shop’ from   Aegis Network, has appointed Vimal Singh as senior creative director and Varun Khullar as creative director in its city team. Vimal Singh comes from Ogilvy, Gurugram, and Varun Khullar is from Happy mcgarrybowen, Bangalore.

 
 Vimal began his   career 14 years ago with Ogilvy, Calcutta. Since then, he has worked with big agencies, including McCann, Delhi, and Contract Advertising, and also done a couple of stints with Ogilvy, Gurugram. He’s worked on several award-winning ideas for the likes of Coca-Cola, Fanta, Mother Dairy, Domino’s Pizza, Google, Phillips and WWF (among many others).
 
 Vimal, who can boast of national and international accolades (Cannes, Clio, Lürzer’s Archive, Envies and Goafest), has enthusiastically dived head-first into his new role. “I’ve always loved the kind of work Happy mcgarrybowen has done over a decade and when the opportunity to join the team came along, it didn’t take me a moment to grab it,” he said.
 
 Varun graduated with an honors degree in Economics, but decided it wasn’t his cup of tea. He’s been in the advertising industry for the best part of the last decade with stints at Ogilvy, McCann and Creativeland Asia. Over the years he has won various awards and handled a wide array of clients like Sprite, Appy Fizz, Flipkart, Honda, Ola, Myntra, KFC, Pizza Hut, Godrej Aer, Hippo Baked Munchies, Duroflex, Wildcraft and Reebok (to name just a few).
 
 The engaging Varun joined the Bangalore office as — in his own words — a “glorified daydreamer” helping big brands sell their stuff. “I’ve been a part of the bucktoothed brigade for a good three years now and each has been more interesting and challenging than the previous,” he said.
 
 “The forging torches at Happy mcgarrybowen moulded and chiseled me into something resembling a creative director. And so I felt I was ready to carry the happy flag and their way of working to the newly minted Gurugram office. The clients are new, the team is new but it has the same vibe. And that’s what Happy is – a feeling. It is an ever-changing, ever-evolving organism that’s full of surprises – like the opportunity of writing a quote for my first press release,” added Varun.
 
 Just over six months on from starting operations in Gurugram, Kartik Iyer — co-founder and CEO, Happy mcgarrybowen — says response from the market has bee-n extremely encouraging, as have results. Incidentally, Happy mcgarrybowen, Gurugram, currently handles the business of Suzuki two-wheelers, MG Motor India and Jabong.com.
 
 
