JAIPUR: Organised crime from   seems to be spilling into Rajasthan, the state police on Sunday arrested two youths with ties to Lawrence Bishnoi gang from Abohar in Punjab for their alleged connection in the murder of a jeweller in Sriganganagar in December last year.

 What initially appeared to be a murder for revenge, turned out to be a handiwork of an organised gang when the Sriganganagar police surveyed the spot in Lalgarh Jattan where Pankaj Soni was shot dead by unidentified bike-borne assailants on December 6 last year.
 
 “Initially we found only two cartridges from the spot and thought the murder was a result of vengeance or personal animosity. But we searched the area extensively and discovered as many as eight cartridges which hinted at the involvement of some gang because only hardcore criminals usually keep store so much of ammunition,” said Surender Singh Rathore, additional SP, Sriganganagar police.
 
 The police arrested Bal Karan Singh (22) and Sahil alias Shanty Bishnoi (21), both residents of Fazilka in Punjab for the murder. The third assailant, identified as Ankit Bhadoo (26) is absconding.
 
 According to police, Bhadoo is a close aide of Punjab-based gangster Lawrence Bishnoi. “Bhadoo also hails from Fazilka and is said to be an aide of Lawrence Bishnoi. We don’t know if Bishnoi himself had directed them to kill and loot Soni, it seems that the trio acted alone,” Rathore said, adding that Bhadoo’s involvement in Churu court shooting has also come to the light.
 
 On January 17, Ajay Jaitpura (32) a history-sheeter, was gunned down by unidentified assailants inside a local court in Sadulpur town of Churu district. The police had found that his assailants fled to Haryana in a car. The investigation by the police suggests that Bhadoo’s role in the gang war. “He is currently on the run but his involvement is also suspected in the Churu court shooting,” Rathore said.
 
 The police said that they are tracking the gangs from Punjab and Haryana which are operating in Rajasthan. The Punjab police on January 26 had gunned down its most wanted gangster Vicky Gounder who had been hiding in Sriganganagar.
 
 
