CHENNAI: In the next few years,   rail services may be extended up to the proposed satellite bus terminus at   near   on GST Road. Chief minister Edappadi  , who inaugurated six underground metro rail stations in the city on Friday, said the government may soon conduct a feasibility study. 

 "A study will be conducted to extend the metro line, which links the airport, up to the proposed mofussil bus terminus and integrate it will all rapid transport systems in the city," the CM said.
 
 Palaniswami and Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs Hardip Singh Puri flagged off the commercial operation of trains services along the stretch from Central Metro to Nehru Park and AG-DMS to Little Mount. 
 
 The terminus, which will house buses bound for southern districts as well as MTC buses, will be built on a 35-acre plot at an estimated cost of 300 crore. A detailed project report for the terminus, for which a portion of land is yet to be cleared by the Archaeological Survey of India, is being prepared by a consultant. 
 
 Experts have welcomed the extension plan as it will encourage more people to use the mass rapid transit system. 
 
 
 
 
 Connecting two modes of transport is a great idea, as multi-modal transport is the best way to make public transportation attractive to commuters, at a time when Chennai city, as a whole, is extending. With more lines coming up, at some point, metro will become like a mini road network," said R Sivanandan, professor, transportation engineering division, IIT Madras. 
 
 For the 107.55km three-corridor phase-2 of the metro rail project, the CM said Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) has come forward to fund the construction two corridors - Madhavaram and Sholingannalur and Madhavaram to Koyambedu. "I urge the Centre for early approval and sanction of their share of funds for the project," he said. "We will begin construction for phase-II once we receive funds from JICA." The state submitted a detailed project report to the Centre last year for approval. Efforts are on to get financial assistance from Asian Development Bank for a third corridor linking Light House and CMBT, he said.
 
 Elaborating on the progress of phase-1 project, the CM said about 35km of the total 45km phase is now operational and the rest of 10km stretch between Washermenpet to AG-DMS will be ready by the end of 2018. 
 
 "So far, about 1.64 crore have taken the metro. With the opening of the new stations, metro trains will connect all major transport hubs - Central, Egmore, CMBT and Airport and is expected to increase footfall significantly," the CM said.
 
 
 
