LUCKNOW: Debutant BJP   MP 
 , whose nail-biting victory in recently held Rajya Sabha elections grabbed national spotlight leaving BSP-SPCongress red-faced, on Tuesday said that independent MLA   came to his rescue like 'Ram avatar' (incarnation of Lord Rama) to ensure his victory.

 “Let's take two key players whose vote changed the fortunes for the BJP. Raja Bhaiya ek pavitra Hindu hain jinke ghar ka naam bhi Ramayan hai (Raja Bhaiya is a holy HIndu, his house is also named Ramayana. He came like a true Ram avatar to aid my victory. And BSP MLA Anil Singh was always a votary of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), ” Aggarwal told TOI.
 
 The 56-year-old, who defeated BSP candidate   on the basis of second preference votes, rejected any conspiracy theory about horse-trading and cross-voting, while saying that all extra votes he received were because of those MLAs who “firmly believed in Hinduism and espouse its cause”
 
 
 
 
 Two days before the voting on March 23, Raja Bhaiya — wearing saffron kurta — went to the Samajwadi Party dinner and openly announced his support to Akhilesh. However, on the day of voting, he came out with a cryptic tweet: “I am with Akhilesh ji, but it doesn’t mean I will support BSP.”
 
 After results, while BSP supremo Mayawati had directly held Raja Bhaiya responsible for her candidate’s defeat, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav had withdrawn its earlier tweet thanking him for his support.SP and Congress were supporting Ambedkar in the polls. Although Aggarwal got just 16 first-preference votes against Ambedkar’s 32, he scraped through on the basis of secondpreference votes.
 
 Aggarwal also hailed yoga as his secret weapon to control anxiety and strategies before the election. “I have been chairman of the UP Yoga association. It is integral part of my life and I believe it contributed to lot of poise on the election eve and the results day. We all remained very confident of my victory,” he said.
 
 He also insisted that people must stop the businessman or money-lending identification of the Aggarwal community, often referred as ‘Baniyas’. “As soon as my name as ninth   candidate was included in the last minute, people thought that I am coming as a party fund raiser. It’s a misconception. We belong to highly educated family and we run educational trusts. My two children are post-graduate in management from UK and Ghaziabad,” said Aggarwal, who is husband of former CM Babu Banarasi Das’s granddaughter.
 
 He asserted that his family would continue the tradition of expanding educational institutions across the country. “We have had franchisee of DPS school. Now that I will be serving society, my son will take care of the expansion of educational trusts,” he said.
 
 
