RAIPUR: Imposing a ban upon all “health camps” of self styled ‘Kambal wale baba’,   administration has issued an order to all block officers to ensure such camps shouldn’t mislead the psychology of rural people. The ‘kambal wale baba’ had hit news when Chhattisgarh home minister visited him for treatment of diabetes and was trolled on social media.

 Raising doubts over the authenticity of baba’s treatment claims, collector said that villagers shouldn’t be fooled anymore under the guise of superstition. 
 
 The move comes after Raipur based ophthalmologist and activist   had written to Surguja collector Kiran Kaushal bringing to her notice that a   was fooling people under the garb of superstition claiming to treat people’s illness. 
 
 Dr Mishra had written to collector recently in December mentioning that a man from Ahmedabad identified as Ganesh Yadav was advertising himself in Surguja, as ‘kambal wale baba’ and was holding health camps claiming to treating people. 
 
 “The baba used to put his blanket on the patient and would kick, punch or twist their hands and legs. This kind of act on pretext of treatment is absolutely objectionable, unscientific and illegal. Poor villagers were being fooled in absence of proper health facility and they would prefer baba over any other treatment, under superstition,” Dr Mishra highlighted. 
 
 Taking cognizance of his complaint, district administration instructed all the block   to ensure that such health camps by self-styled baba shouldn’t take place in their respective regions. 
 
 Earlier home minister Ramsewak Paikra had visited the baba during his tour to Surguja and when he was slammed for choosing superstition over scientific solutions, he decided to visit baba for the second time privately, for treatment of his diabetes. 
 
 Undeterred, Kambal wale baba told media persons that no one can stop people meeting him. "People have faith in me, I have treated many of them. Business of doctors has been affected because of me and they conspired against me. People also have faith in God and they believe that God solves their problem, so that too is superstition, close down the temples to," he remarked.
 
