JHARGRAM/KOLKATA: A   roaming the forests of   in West Midnapore, Jhargram and Bankura for more than two months died a violent death at the hands of tribal hunters in   forest in West Midnapore’s Dherua on Friday. The full-grown Royal Bengal tiger, of which only around 80 survive in the wild in Bengal, was found with a spear piercing its face and blood oozing out of its face, nose and ears.

 Foresters said tribal hunters, mainly from the nearby Aajulsuli village who were celebrating the ongoing hunting festival, killed the tiger. Officials suspect Badal Hansda and   came face-to-face with the tiger inside the forest when it was gorging on a wild boar kill and hurled the spear, wounding it fatally. The two hunters, too, were injured. A post-mortem report revealed the animal was also hit several times on the head with a blunt object. The viscera report is awaited.
 
 The tiger’s carcass, which weighed around 220 kg, was brought to Garbeta’s Arabari but, before that, foresters had to quell an agitation by villagers who demanded Rs 30,000 to lift the animal and accused foresters of not doing enough to trap the tiger for over two months. 
 
 “Tiger pugmarks were spotted along with a half-eaten wild boar inside the forest about 100 metres from a road, around 11.30 am,” Bapi Mahato, a resident of Kanandihi village, said. 
 
 Chapasole villager Arun Mahato said,“We rushed to Kanandihi. There were pugmarks all around, indicating that the tiger had dragged its prey for a few metres.”
 
 Hundreds of villagers were inside the forest since morning but the news of the half-eaten boar and fresh pugmarks prompted a fresh influx into the forest. The first piece of information about what had happened inside reached officials about three hours later, around 2.30pm, when they learnt that a tiger was lying about 50-60 metres from a culvert in nearby Baghghora forest, the same spot where it had fled from foresters on March 30 after a botched-up trap operation. Officials reached the spot and found the tiger with a spear piercing its face. They went closer and realised that the tiger was dead, with blood on its face, nose and ears.
 
 Foresters had to take help of local mediapersons, who had converged there by then, after villagers refused to help lift the carcass. A crowd of more than 2000 villagers gathered in a nearby field to get a glimpse of the big cat but no one came forward to help.
 
 The National Tiger Conservation Authority sought a report from the state. NTCA member-secretary Debabrata Swain said: “We will find out the origin of the tiger by DNA sampling. This will help us establish the probable corridor it took to reach Lalgarh and secure the route.”
 
 Chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha said the autopsy was done in presence of wildlife board members. “Tests were done on the wild boar carcass to find out whether it was laced with poison.” Wildlife activist Meghna Banerjee said: “The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, doesn’t give any right to hunt or trap or extract body parts of wild animals. The culprits must be punished under the Wildlife Protection Act.” The department has lodged an FIR against unknown persons.
 
 
