NEW DELHI: The central government spends three paise per person per day on sports. This was revealed by the sports ministry in Parliament during a discussion on a career in sports.

 However, this investment per sports person goes up when one adds funds provided by the state government as sports is a state subject.
 
 Admitting that the ministry of youth affairs and sports spends three paise per capita per day, sports minister   said that the total outlay of the department of sports under the ministry during the year 2017-18 was Rs 1,393.21 crore. "As per figures of the Census 2011, the population of India is 121 crore. Thus, per capita per day spend of the outlay of the department of sports of this ministry alone is around 3 paise," said the minister.
 
 But with sports being a state subject, Rathore said the role of the Centre is limited to supplement the efforts of the state. "Apart from the central and state governments, many non-governmental organisations are also involved in development of sports in the country...Therefore, the actual per capita per day spend of India on sports is certainly higher than 3 paise at present," added Rathore, who also cited the involvement of corporates in promoting sports through   (corporate social responsibilities) activities.
 
 The answer came in response to a starred question in the   by MPs   and  , who wanted to know what the government was doing to promote sports, and whether schools and colleges provided the requisite opportunities to children interested in a career in sports.
 
 Rathore admitted that most schools and colleges were "geared primarily towards academic education". "Therefore, many of them are not equipped to provide appropriate/adequate opportunities to children to pursue sports as a career," said Rathore. However, he added, several other opportunities were available, including institutes for training in sports coaching and physical education run by the ministry.
 
 The minister informed the House that his ministry is implementing a number of promotional schemes for development of sports in the country. 
 
