​Mangaluru: Parents of ​​Zaibunnisa,12, a student of Navodaya Minority Residential School, K R Pet, in Mandya district, who died under mysterious circumstances, demanded a CID probe into their daughter’s death, claiming that it was a murder. 

 “We suspect that our daughter was murdered, and the matter should be probed by the CID,” demanded Zaibunnisa’s father Mohammed Ibrahim.
 
 At a news conference here on Tuesday, along with members of the Sunni Students Federation (SSF), Ibrahim said on the fateful day around 4.30pm, Zaibunnisa had called him and complained about abuse by physical education teacher Ravi Shivakumar. “She accused him of physically and mentally torturing her. She told me over phone that Ravi insulted, abused and beat her up in front of others for not performing well during rehearsals for the Republic Day parade. She also mentioned that the teacher had threatened to strip and thrash her,” Ibrahim alleged.
 
 In her last conversation, the girl had pleaded with her parents to admit her to another school. An hour after the conversation, Zaibunnisa was found dead in her hostel room. The incident took place on January 24. Her body was shifted to the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute for a postmortem.
 
 “We have learnt that Ravi along with a friend, rushed Zaibunnisa to the hospital on a two-wheeler. Why was there a need to take her on a motorbike, when there was an ambulance and other vehicles available. We suspect foul play, and demand a thorough probe into the death,” demanded Ashraf Kinara, chief secretary of SSF.
 
 “It is a conspiracy that the body was taken to the hospital even before the arrival of the police. She had dreams of scaling greater heights in education, and did not have any suicidal tendencies. We understood this after talking to the parents. Hence, the issue should be considered seriously, and handed over to the CID. Maximum punishment should be awarded to all accused, including the physical education teacher. In addition, the kin of the girl should be given Rs 25 lakh as compensation, and a house should be provided to the family,” he demanded.
 
 He said the Dakshina Kannada district unit of the SSF will stage a protest in front of the deputy commissioner’s office on Saturday, with regards to this matter.
 
 Case will be investigated: Kripa Alva
 
 In connection with the mysterious death of​​ Zaibunnisa, Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson Kripa Alva said officials of the education department and teachers and staff of the residential school will be summoned before the commission, and a detailed inquiry will be conducted within a week. Alva had earlier visited the family of the victim.
 
 
