MUMBAI: Restaurants in the city will no longer be able to   their establishments for  .

 In a revision of its procedure for the grant of trade licences to eating houses in the aftermath of the Kamala Mills blaze that gutted two   and killed 14, the   has done away with self-certification and brought in scrutiny by its officials. 
 
 From now on, officials from the newly formed compliance cell of the fire brigade and the assistant engineers of the building and factory department have been assigned specific responsibilities to look for shortcomings in establishments. In case compliance is not done in 10 days, the restaurants are liable to get a rejection note.
 
 A circular on the revised process for grant of eating house licences and other major trade licences under Section 394 of the MMC Act, a copy of which is with TOI, says a flowchart has been prepared for officials to follow. “Once the applicant finishes the online procedure and agrees to comply with the health department conditions and the chief fire officer’s codified rules, the medical officer (health) is expected to refer the application to two departments. Unlike before, one department would be the assistant engineer (building and factory), who is expected to give his remarks within 10 days on whether there are any notices pending against the premises and whether it’s dilapidated,” a municipal official said. 
 
 If the assistant engineer fails to submit his remark within 10 days, it shall be deemed as given. A showcause notice would also be given to the officer concerned, followed by an inquiry.
 
 The application would also be forwarded to the senior fire station officer, who would scrutinize the application, and if there are certain shortcomings in the documents, these hall be intimated to the applicant within three working days. If the compliance for the required documents are not uploaded within 10 days by the application, application shall be rejected automatically. 
 
 “The new circular fixes, the roles and responsibilities of every official, which was not the case earlier. It would also ensure that there is co-ordination among all departments,” a municipal official said.
 
 Earlier, under the ease of business model, establishments were allowed to self-certify themselves, which civic officials said started being misused. Municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta in his report on Kamala Mills blaze had said: “The policies of Ease of Doing Business have a much larger emphasis on self-certification by the applicants and their undertaking the authenticity and truthfulness of the statements given by them. There has been a consistent emphasis by government to simplify approval process. It is observed that though the government machinery is gearing up to this paradigm shift the private players are lagging behind to take over responsibility of truthful compliance which they will have to shoulder while getting permissions/approvals based on fast track methods.”
 
 
