CHENNAI: By the end of this year,   will come out with a first-of-its kind   dictionary, which will have meanings of words in seven   like  , Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Hindi, Sanskrit and Arabic-Persian-Urdu.

 The university has started to revive this   which was initiated by the   ( ) a decade ago under funds allocated for University with Potential for Excellence (UPE). Vice-chancellor P Duraisamy has initiated the revival and announced this in the senate meeting on Saturday.
 
 According to chief editor of the project C G Rajendra Babu, the university is the only Indian institution to work on such a project. “We shall release five volumes of the project. The first one will be regarding terms used in art and literature. The second volume will be about flora and fauna and third will be about scientific terms and so on,” Babu, who retired as head of Malayalam department in 2012, said.
 
 For instance, the word ‘Agam’ is a specific Tamil word relating to Sangam literature. The dictionary will have its corresponding terms in other languages, Babu said. Another example given by Babu was the Malayalam word ‘Thullal’, which is an art form in Kerala.
 
 This prestigious project was actually in the doldrums since 2011-12, as per internal documents accessed by TOI, which also paints a picture of neglect and lack of enthusiasm. 
 
 A May 2017 report shows that despite an allocation of Rs 45 lakh by UGC, this project was a non-starter though more than half of the UPE tenure was over. The then co-ordinator of the project was asked to furnish an ‘action taken report’ in September 2015, but did not do so even in 2017. The report noted that he was given repeated reminders and yet no tangible action or initiative was taken.
 
  “Non- implementation of this project and non-utilisation of the approved allocation of Rs 45 lakh is likely to be viewed seriously by the UGC and the audit,” the report noted. The professor, however, failed to understand the seriousness of the issue.
 
 Babu said that he had brought out a pilot of the first volume that was released in the presence of UGC officials in 2012. “But now we are starting with a clean slate. The language department HoDs will be editors,” he said.
 
 Babu said Duraisamy was keen on reviving the project after taking over in May. Duraisamy told TOI that they plan to complete the project before March next year.
 
 
