NAGPUR: A day after he scored his second   (IM) norm in a bid to become Maharashtra’s youngest  , 12-year-old   scored another high in the   by emerging victorious in the shortest format of chess.

 City’s emerging chess star, brought home a yellow metal in the day long blitz event — played in a unique format with a partner of similar Elo rating. Pairing up with 50-year-old   from Canada for the first time, Raunak won gold medal in the blitz pairs at Gibraltar. In the blitz pairs competition, both the teammates play on a same board and are required to play an alternate move each. Both Raunak and Victor met at the Gibraltar Chess Festival for the first time.
 
 In the six-round event, the Indo-Canada pair of Raunak and Victor represented The North and remained unbeaten to finish on top of the table. After playing a draw in the second round, Raunak and Victor won all their five remaining games for the top position on the basis of a better tie-break score. Four teams finished the event winning five rounds each. While a second round draw came handy for Raunak and Victor as all the other three teams lost a round each. For their title winning effort, both Raunak and Victor got richer by 100 pounds each.
 
 The unique event saw a participation of 48 pairs from 30 countries including a Women Grandmaster and 15 IMs.
 
 Representing The North, Raunak-Victor gave a flying start to their campaign by posting a facile win over African Oracle in the opening round. They drew the following round against Pein and Pleasure. Making a comeback, the Indo-Canadian pair outplayed The Sicilian Masters in the third round.
 
 Despite playing with the black pieces in the fourth round, North prevailed over the experienced duo of Bliumberg Viadislav and Herzwurm Robert, representing Monkey Chess. In the penultimate round, Raunak and Victor utilized their opening advantage well to get the better of Gioco Piano.
 
 In the final round, the Fide Masters from India and Canada surprised the seasoned campaigners and IMs from Norway Maxim Devereaux and Sahl Sheila Barth for the triumph.
 
 Raunak's mother Heena Sadhwani, who is accompaying her son, is quite elated with her wards achievement. In a chat with TOI she said, "Raunak keeps on adding feathers to his hat and makes us proud day by day. It is the result of his hard work, passion and love for the game."
 
 In December last year, Raunak won bronze medal in the blitz event of the Zadar Open chess tournament in Croatia.
 
 
