BENGALURU: Bringing in an amendment to Article 371(J) of the Constitution to remove regional imbalances in the Hyderabad-Karnatak belt has not served the expected purpose for the ruling party.

 Shortage of funds and land acquisition issues are proving to be major hurdles in the speedy completion of irrigation projects, especially the third phase of the Upper Krishna Project (UKP).
 
 These are major issues in the region, which comprises the six districts of Bidar,  , Yadgir, Ballari, Kalaburagi and Koppal, in the assembly polls later this year.
 
 Cashing in on growing regional demand, the BJP’s chief ministerial candidate BS Yeddyurappa has already made a mega promise: To bring Rs 1 lakh crore from the Centre for development of irrigation projects in the region, provided his party returns to power in the state.
 
 “It’s my promise. Will someone please note the time?” he announced during the party’s Parivartana rally in the region recently.
 
 “Soon after taking over as chief minister, Siddaramaiah promised to complete the Upper Krishna Project 3rd Phase but now he claims they need another Rs 50,000crore to complete it. There has been huge delay in land acquisition because of a fund crunch. This is a major issue in the region,” said H D Basavaraj, former   (Secular) leader in Kalaburagi.
 
 The ruling  , however, is confident the party will benefit from the successful implementation of other key irrigation projects.
 
 “Implementation of the Nandawadagi lift irrigation project in Raichur, a microirrigation system on 20,000 hectares under Koppal and Singatalluru lift irrigation projects, installation of modern gates and rejuvenation work of Yadgiri and Yadagira projects of Kalaburagi district, modernization of   and Mullamari upper bank projects of Kalaburagi district, and construction of check dams in Bidar will give a fillip to our election campaign,” said a senior Congress leader.
 
 The Congress, had, in 2013, promised development of this region and just a year before the elections, the   government amended Article 371 (J) of the Constitution to grant special status to the Hyderabad-Karnatak belt. The result was evident: the party bagged 24 of 40 assembly constituencies.
 
 The Congress this time hopes to win the belt by once again using the 371(J) issue and development work. “Our government has spent about Rs 3,500crore from 2013 to 2017 for development projects,’’ said some Congress leaders.
 
 “There’s no visible development in the past five years since special status was granted to Hyderabad-Karnatak regoin. Though about Rs 4,500crore has been earmarked in successive budgets, the government released only Rs 2,080crore and only Rs 1,697crore of that meagre amount was used for developmental work. The   has failed to utilize the funds released. The government also failed to fill hundreds of vacancies in government jobs reserved for people from the region,” alleged some   leaders from the region.
 
 
