MUMBAI: Notwithstanding the tall claims of both finance minister   and water resources minister Girish Mahajan, the BJP-led state government has quietly suppressed information on area under irrigation across the state.

 Both Mungantiwar and Mahajan had on umpteen occasions stated that after the BJP came to power in October 2014, there has been massive increase in the land under irrigation, while the Economic Survey presented in both the houses of the state legislature on Thursday states information is not available.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who was then opposition leader and leader of opposition  , had taken on the Congress-NCP government on the same issue in 2011-2012. Their allegation then was in the past 10 years, a huge amount was spent on irrigation projects, but the increase in land under irrigation was a meagre 0.1 per cent. The government had brought out a white paper on the status of irrigation projects, and area under irrigation. On the basis of the white paper, the BJP had cried foul about a Rs 70,000-crore scam in the water resources department, then led by senior   leaders Ajit Pawar and  .
 
 Corruption in the water resources department was the main poll plank in the run-up to the 2014 Lok   and assembly elections. In fact, BJP came to power following a sustained campaign against the Congress-NCP government.
 
 A senior NCP leader said after the BJP came to power, assurances were given that all projects, completed up to 70% and 90% would be given top priority, but both Mungantiwar and Mahajan are silent on the progress of projects. “We were criticised for revised administrative approval, but the water resources department has now approved an additional cost of Rs 33,000 crore for 205 irrigation projects,’’ he said.
 
 A water resources department official said on the basis of the recommendations made by the Chitale Committee, a new formula has been drafted to calculate the exact area under irrigation. “Currently, information is drawn on the basis of data compiled by the agriculture department, while the committee has submitted data garnered by all departments should be taken into consideration," he said.
 
