One can’t deny the unimaginable amount of energy and passion that our Tamil folk artistes have, as they dance to the beats of music that would instantly make anyone groove. This week’s episode of   on   will make you do just that as their special ‘folk round’ will be telecast this weekend. What’s interesting is that the team has invited the Padma Shri awardee   and her husband, M   for the show. 

 A source in the know says, “It is more like a tribute to Vijayalakshmi’s contribution to Tamil folk music, as well as for all Tamil folk artistes. Both the episodes that will be telecast are a celebration of her music and all Tamil folk songs in general. The team had got an extensive group of 15 folk musicians from all over Tamil Nadu for the episode. They will perform along with the programme’s existing Mani and the Band.”
 
  We hear that both Vijayalakshmi and Navaneethakrishnan were happy to be a part of the programme. And it only came in as a surprise when Super Singer team learnt that the couple has been following the talent show for the last 10 years. 
 
 “The team had tried to get them on the show for quite some time. But things fell in place only now. They were delighted to hear the contestants belt folk numbers, especially contestants Senthil and  ,” adds the source. While other 18 contestants sang film folk songs, these two sang original folk songs for the episodes. Rajalakshmi, who shared a sweet moment on stage with Vijayalakshmi, says, “My husband Senthil and I have been singing folk songs for the last 10 years. But we have never got a chance to meet Vijayalakshmi Amma. She is our idol. We never knew they were coming. I have been even practising to sing one of her songs for the folk round. When I saw them on stage, I was moved to tears.” 
 
 Sharing her experience, Rajalakshmi adds, “When she went on stage to speak, she took our names. That itself was a huge thing for us. After my performance, both of us got emotional. She said that she always wished to have a daughter who can carry forward the folk legacy. And after hearing my performance, she said that she has found her daughter. Before going on stage, I was scared to perform in front of them. After she said this, I was moved. Nothing else mattered to me. Both of them praised my husband, too. This was our award.” The episodes also feature folk dance performances that brighten the entire mood. 
 
