A recent study explained that about 70 per cent students do not get seven hours of sleep in the weeks leading up to final exams, with only 18 per cent sleeping three to five hours a day. In multi-city survey (Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Chennai, Jaipur and Chandigarh) of close to 6,500 children, two in three students said that they had more homework and assignments than they could deal with. Forget taking a walk, they did not have time to even speak with their family and friends. 68 per cent said that they spent less than one hour outdoors in the weeks leading up to the exams. 

 While these stress statistics are alarming, speaking to city students turned out to be heartening as most seem to have found a formula to cope with it. In fact, they enthusiastically share some tips and tricks to finding some ‘me time’ in the midst of examinations.
 
 
 
 It may seem difficult for a student to switch subjects while studying for a board exam, but college students vouch for this as one of the best ways to prevent boredom from setting in. Says Aaditya Shivkumar, a student of arts at  , “If someone is experiencing saturation or is under undue stress with a particular subject, they should try switching subjects. This may sound like the most clichéd and parent-like response, but it works. Another amazing way to enjoy what you study is to explain the same stuff to your friends or even, a parent. It has worked wonders for me.” 
 
  
 
 That’s not all. Some students believe that mugging up a certain subject makes the learning process tiring and stressful. Atharv Dongare, a science student from Jai Bharat High School & Junior College says, “I try to innovate with the way I study. For instance, I like to visualise concepts. Practical studies also helps in bringing about clarity on a subject. I also involve studies in every aspect of my life. For example, I memorise formulas while taking a shower, instead of sitting in one place and studying. These little, little things helps me stay stress-free.”
 
 “Drawing flow charts, mind maps and venn diagrams simplifies chapters and de-stresses me,” says Ketki Walimbe, science student at DAV Public School. 
 
 
 
 While music has been deemed as the perfect stressbuster for those wanting to take a quick break from their studies, there are many students who feel sketching or painting can help them break the monotony. Snigdha Shetkar, a commerce student from VG Vaze College of Arts, Science and Commerce says, “Whenever I am bored of studying and want to do something else in between, I prefer sketching or painting as it takes my mind off from studies for some time.” Shreya Gusain, a commerce student from Elphinstone College, adds, “There are times when words begin to get jumbled in my head. That’s when I take to 3D paintings and making figurines out of clay. It not helps me de-stress, I have also been some pocket money out of it as I sell them at various exhibitions.” 
 
 
 
 Recent studies have time and again reiterated that mobiles are the biggest enemy of students, especially during examinations. However, some of them beg to differ. Dhruv Dubey, a commerce student from Bhavan’s College, says, “I alternate between yoga and gaming. It helps me divert my attention for a while. The key is to not get carried away while you play games on your mobile. It should be more of a way to relieve stress than distract you.” 
 
 Adding to this, Sagarika Sen, a commerce and media studies student from DAV Public School, says, “When I cannot study continuously for hours, I take a 5-10 minute break to refresh my mind. I used that time to meditate, it opens up my mind and helps me concentrate better.”  , a first year VoC student at  , states further, “It’s either yoga or jogging for me. Ten to 15 minutes of it helps me stay focussed and releases tension. I also maintain a short and nutritious diet (mostly fruit juices, boiled veggies, sandwiches and milk).”
 
 
 
 The one way to not let stress get to them, say students, is to play various kinds of sports. Tejas Sane, a student at PACE shares, “Taking a break from studies is mandatory, it relaxes my mind. And, there’s nothing better than playing some sort of sport.” Adding to this,  , a first year student of arts at Mithibai College says, “Whenever I have the stress of appearing for an exam, I ensure that I begin my day playing a game of either cricket or football with my bunch of friends. I study through the day and then before going to bed, play chess or a game of scrabble with my dad.”
 
 
 
 
