Hazaribag: A four-member team of the   (NGT) has recommended stringent action against the state government and the district administrations of   and   for turning a blind eye to illegal mining which has polluted the environment and destroyed the ecology of the adjoining villages in the last 10 years.

 The NGT team led by Rita Saha visited the two districts of North Chhotanagpur division from March 5 to 9 to look into complaints of illegal mining in the area.
 
 In its report submitted to the NGT, the team has found evidences to substaintiate the complaints of illegal mining continuing in the forests of Hazaribag for the past one decade.
 
 The report stated that the illegal mining has completely polluted the environment and destroyed the greenery both in reserved and unreserved forest areas, including the  .
 
 The NGT had sent the team after a petition filed by noted environmentalist Satya Prakash against illegal mining. Acting on his complaints, the team inspected 14 illegal mining sites in the two districts. 
 
 The team found that those who engage in the illegal activity provided no safety measures to their worker, following which several workers fell inside the quarries and died. The report mentioned that more than 100 illegal stone quarries and coal mining pits were operating on a stretch of 159 km between Ramgarh and Koderma via Hazaribag.
 
 Further, a large portion of the Bahbanbay hill, located just 5 km away from the Hazaribag town along NH-33 and the hills at Domchanch in Koderma were demolished because of the illegal mining for stone.
 
 In Hazaribag, the team inspected the illegal quarries in Miral, Dumraon, Ichak, Padma and the Hazaribag Wild Life Sanctuary and were shocked to find destruction of the forests. 
 
 Expressing strong concern over the issue, the team has also recommended setting up of a special task force to monitor and check the widespread illegal activity. 
 
 NGT officials said the tribunal will take up the case for hearing on the findings April 27.
 
 Commenting on the matter, regional chief conservator of forests Sanjeev Kumar said the department has taken several measure to curb illegal mining in the region. 
 
 “We have already taken action by lodging 155 cases against 390 culprits involved in the illegal mining,” Kumar said. He said out of 390 accused, 60 have been arrested and raids are continuing to arrest the others. 
 
 During raids, they have seized 20 tractors, four trucks, three heavy vehicles one crane and one JCB used by the illegal miners, Kumar said, adding that the total cases filed in the matter have reached 816 against 1,700 offenders.
 
 
