NEW DELHI: An   died in a fire at their house in Sudarshan Park, west Delhi, early on Friday. A tenant who tried to save the couple was injured. But family members alleged that the couple’s “mentally unstable”   killed them. 

 Police said this man has been missing ever since the incident and a team has been formed to track him. Some neighbours said they saw him run towards the main road soon after the fire broke out. 
 
 DCP (west) Vijay Kumar said the   remains of Chedi Lal (70) and his wife Laxmi (62) were found near a broken gate. Police suspect they were trying to save themselves as the main door was locked from the outside and were engulfed by the flames. 
 
 A fire brigade official said they received a call about the fire at 3.30am after which two fire engines were sent to the spot. When the blaze couldn’t be controlled in half an hour, another was fire tender was sent. Eventually, the fir was put out around 4.30am. 
 
 Police said the couple had been living in their two-room flat for eight years along with their son Santosh. They had rented out a room to three boys who ran an eatery from there. 
 
 When the fire broke out, all three men living in the other room managed to get out. But hearing the couple’s cries for help, one of them went back to rescue them. But a wooden plank fell on him. Injured, he somehow came out of the house and dropped down unconscious. leaving him injured after which he came out and dropped unconscious. He was identified as Vijay (24).
 
 Neighbours told TOI that they saw Santosh flee, but realised there was a fire only later when the couple and the tenants raised alarm. Other members of the family blamed Santosh for the act. 
 
 “Not just my parents, he even threatened to kill me whenever I went to meet my parents. They were always very fond of him and protective of him despite him harming them in every possible way. There were times when he stole my father’s hard-earned money and went missing from home,” said Jyoti, Santosh’s sister. 
 
 Chedi Lal ran a chaat stall in the same area while Laxmi was a homemaker. Another son lives in   while Jyoti lives in Najafgarh. They were all informed about the incident around 6.30am. “We were asked to reach   at the earliest and were told that our parents have received some burn injuries. It’s only when we reached there did we learn that they were dead,” added Jyoti. 
 
 The neighbours said they tried to put out the fire before the fire brigade arrived but failed. 
 
 
