PUNE: Tour operator Saras Misal’s multi-utility vehicle (MUV) was vandalized twice since December 26 last year. A resident of   in  , he parks his vehicles at  .

 “Every fortnight, I have to spend money on repairing the car for no fault of mine. I just cannot afford it,” Misal told TOI.
 
 Enmity between two rival groups took an ugly turn on Monday night. Members of one of the gangs vandalized 11 vehicles — six four-wheelers and five two-wheelers — parked on the road in the Ramnagar area. The ransacking was fallout of Sunday’s incident in which six vehicles were vandalized in the   area in Ramnagar.
 
 In two days, as many as 18 vehicles were damaged. Their owners suffered losses worth over Rs2 lakh.
 
 Frustrated over the repeated acts of damaging vehicles, the Ramnagar residents demanded stringent action against the people responsible for it. “After the ransacking, the police detain someone, who later turns out to be a minor and gets bail immediately,” said a Ramnagar resident, who did not wish to reveal his identity.
 
 He said the police were aware that criminals staying in Ramnagar were using the minors to settle scores. “The police should go deep into the matter and take action against the main culprits,” he said.
 
 Ramnagar resident   said the suspects punctured the fuel tank of his motorcycle. “I shall have to replace it. I do not know how much it will cost,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Datta Misal, a chicken shop owner of Ramnagar, lodged a complaint with the Warje Malwadi police stating that a gang of about 17 men, who went on a vehicle ransacking spree, also threatened him with a chopper and robbed Rs1,800.
 
 The Warje Malwadi police have registered the offence under Section 395 (dacoity) and rioting of the Indian Penal Code. “We shall take stringent action against the criminals,” said senior inspector Bajirao Mole.
 
 An officer of the Warje police said the suspects would not get bail easily after arrest. “We have ascertained the identity of a few suspects,” he said.
 
 
