
 
  Evicted contestant   had an interaction with  . As soon as he entered onto the stage, he thanked people for voting him. Riyaz said he would have loved to win Bigg Boss, but unfortunately it didn’t happen. He felt he should have gone with the flow, without calculating much. Every contestant in the house has the desire to win, he added. He expressed his anguish over Diwakar’s behaviour. Recalling his 91 days of journey, Riyaz said he shared a great rapport with   and   in the house, but in real life my wife   is close friend. Ayesha said Riyaz remained true even in the house.
  
  Riyaz predicted that   and   might get eliminated in the next week and Chanda Shetty,   and   has the chance to win the show, but   Acharya chances are bright to win. He considered   plays drama in the house,   as beautiful human being,   as chanakya, Chanrashekhar as an amazing person,   is a comedian and director, Diwakar as a double faced guy,   is an angry person,   is a terrific human being, J Karthik is a gentleman,   is a sportive girl,   is a smart fox,   has plenty of potential, Sameer is a best friend,   is a challenging girl,   is very talented and   is a straight forward girl. Regarding his future plans, he added that he wants to construct a house.
  
  Actors of Raju   Medium, Gurunandan and   spoke about their characters in the movie and why viewers have to watch it. They even entered the house and had dinner.   gave a task to contestants to speak in pure Kannada to share their experience of staying in the house. After having dinner, they walked out of the house.
  SUDEEP ENTERS THE HOUSE: For the first time in Kannada Bigg Boss, Sudeep made a surprise entry to the house. Sudeep appreciated the efforts of contestants. He spoke about Chandan Shetty’s marriage, Shruti failing to recognize her sister’s voice, Sameer’s marriage and dance in the house. Diwakar during his interaction with Sudeep said he has controlled his anger. Niveditha expressed her desire to stay in secret room to Sudeep. Later, Sudeep served a special dish prepared by him to all contestants. Sameer crooned hey   song which was dedicated to Sudeep. The song was penned by Sameer Acharya.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
