CHENNAI: Almost the entire stock of medicines at the   in Arumbakkam has run out and more than 150 in-patients of the siddha ward are being given hot water with medicines to treat cold and diarrhoea, doctors said. The 500 outpatients are being given the option of buying medicines from private drug stores or to choose from the 'available' medicines. 

 On Tuesday, six senior professors along with   principal Dr K Kanakavalli went to meet commissioner of Indian Medicine Dr   as duty doctors and postgraduate students threatened to go on strike after a patient demanded pain-obliterating therapeutic oils doctors prescribe for her rheumatoid arthritis.
 
 "She is our regular patient and threw a fit when we told her medicines were not available. These medicines are expensive at private drug stores and she said she will not be able to afford them," said a professor. Although doctors usually pool in money to help needy patients, on Tuesday they decided it could not continue.
 
 For more than three weeks now, patientsare being prescribed only 11 of 112 types of drugs, a doctor said. 
 
 "Even if a patient comes to us with diarrhoea, we give him hot water. Sometimes, we give them medicines we prescribe for common cold. Because, the side-effects for herbal medicines are not huge, the only form of treatment now is the placebo effect," said a postgraduate student.
 
 If the condition of a patient becomes critical, he or she is rushed to the nearby   or   for allopathic treatment. 
 
 "Some patients need massage with special oils. These are done so we can dissolve blood clots. If this massage is stopped, it can be life threatening," said another senior professor. The situation is far worse in other hospitals and clinics across the state, they said. 
 
 Principal Dr Kanakavalli said the commissioner had sanctioned 5 lakh for immediate purchase of drugs from the local market. "He told us there was a the problem with procurement of drugs after GST [kicked in]. Our joint director is in charge of getting it for us. He told us it will be sorted out," she said. 
 
 Indian Medicine joint director Dr P Parthiban said that TAMCOL, the agency that is tasked with purchasing the stock of Indian medicines, had to recall several tenders after the introduction of GST on July 1, 2017. 
 
 "This slowed down purchase of some drugs. Today, we have supplied 1,500 litres of coconut oil and gingelly oil for preparation of various medicines. We will be preparing the medicines at the hospital in the next two days," he said.
 
 
