Nagpur: A team of city’s three adventurers in their 50s thought it would be a good idea to have coffee atop Mount Kilimanjaro, one of the highest summits in the world. The intention was to step outside their comfort zone and be one with the nature. The crux of this adventure was reaching the summit on the 69th Republic Day and unfurling, what they claimed to be, the largest Indian flag on top of a mountain. Paediatrician Ravi Waikar, anaesthetist Aarti Kelkar and adventurer Avinash Deoskar planned to scaled Kilimanjaro in Tanzania, Africa. They had planned it in the last week of December. The ascent to the volcanic mountain’s highest point, Uhuru Peak, is a staggering 19,341 feet above sea level. The team ascended and descended the summit in seven days between January 21 and 27. “I simply asked my friends (Waikar and Kelkar) if they would fancy having coffee on Mt. Kilimanjaro. The idea here was to celebrate life instead of being cooped up in our safe zones,” said Deoskar. Waikar said, “The journey to the summit was very exhaustive and we were eager to descend and rest properly. The euphoria sets in a few days later and then you get a sense of your accomplishment.” Kelkar, who is still revelling the experience, said, “It was a test of how far out of my comfort zone I could go. While preparing for the trip, I didn’t realize the scale of the adventure. All I knew was this opportunity might never come again.” In the seven-day trek to the peak, the trio was faced with rain and snowfall, sub-zero temperatures and altitude sickness. A disciplined routine helped in keeping their health in check. “There were some young foreigners in our group who had to return due to altitude sickness,” said Waikar. The group followed the principal of ‘climb high, sleep low’ between six camps to acclimatize with the lack of oxygen above 8,000 feet. This meant they would climb in the day-time then descend to the next camp before darkness. The group would end up walking for as much as 18 hours a day. “We would not realize how chilly it was until we stopped. Walking was a crucial way of keeping our bodies warm. Drinking water regularly was important, even if one isn’t thirsty,” said Kelkar. The group would resume the trek early in the morning. Except on January 26, when the group started ascent to Uhuru at 12am local time. At around 8am the trio was on the summit. “We had brought the Indian flag made of satin which measured 40x30 feet. We unfurled the tricolour with help from fellow climbers and sang ‘Jan Gan Man’ at the highest point in Africa,” said Waikar. “The route we had chosen to reach Mt. Kilimanjaro was utterly beautiful and comprised tropical forests and arid deserts with exotic flora, fauna and native people. And that was the ultimate intention of this trip: to explore places we’d never think of and synchronize with nature’s rhythm,” said Deoskar.