Vijayawada: Huge potholes on the bridges over three major irrigation canals have turned into death trap for citizens. For years, the   Municipal Corporation (VMC) and the irrigation department have neglected them even though the number of people using them has increased by leaps and bounds.

 The area between Ryvus Canal, Bandar Canal, and Eluru Canals, forms a major portion of the city, and these bridges are crucial for movement of traffic in the city. A few bridges, built before the 1980s, are in a pathetic condition. The bridge near Lenin Centre connecting Governorpet and Gandhinagar, was damaged a year ago. Footpaths on the bridge have disappeared, and VMC officials have simply put up a barricade for safety, without repairing to bridge.
 
 M Venkata Rama, who runs a cloth store on Besant Road, said: “It has been almost a year since the bridge got damaged. Pedestrians face problems because of the broken footpath at a busy junction like Lenin Centre. The bridge rattles because of movement of heavy vehicles such as city buses and lorries.” 
 
 Huge gaps formed on the bridge near Vijayawada Railway junction on Eluru canal are even more dangerous. Plethora of complaints by citizens has failed to make official act. Muppala Venkat, a citizen who uses the road frequently, said, “The huge gap on the footpath on the bridge beside Eluru canal is dangerous. Pedestrians face a danger of falling into the canal if they do not notice the hole on the bridge. Officials should immediately repair this.” 
 
 Taxpayers association secretary, MV Anjaneyulu, said, “Officials, who are busy publicising city beautification projects, should first focus on safety of denizens. Both, the VMC and the irrigation department are to blame. Both point fingers at each other, and ignore long-pending repair works of the bridges. It has been almost a year since the bridge at Lenin centre got broken. This is pathetic response from the administration.”
 
 The engineering wing of the VMC says that they have already taken a note of the problem, and will take necessary action soon.
 
 
