BENGALURU:   president   is retracing most of the route that his   counterpart   had taken in the north eastern part (Hyderabad-Karnataka) of election-bound   during his ongoing three-day tour, but leaving out all the Muslim-associated places in the region.
 
  If Gandhi visited the twin-religious places of Sharanabasappa temple and the Khwaja Bande Nawaz darga in Kalaburagi, ten days ago, Shah visited only the former. Gandhi went to temples and religious institutions known for their multi-religious and secular outlook on his four-day tour, but Shah took another tack and visited the famed Gurudwara in Bidar city and the Buddha vihar at Renukalgi, subtly underlining the BJP support to other minorities. He also visited the mutt of a Yogini, the Manikeshwari mutt, whose devotees believe, lives without eating food or drinking water.
  
  Shah is set to visit the Anubhava Mantapa, a 12th century seat of equality and philosophy set up by philosopher-reformer Basavanna (Basaveshwara), the patron saint of the powerful Lingayat community that supports the BJP, on Monday. Gandhi visited this site and was given literature about the Basava philosophy 11 days earlier, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned this centre in his speech.
  
  “It is almost as if the competition is direct,” a senior politician from this region, who declined to be identified even by his party, told ET. “The differences are subtle and there, but the imitation of Gandhi’s route by Shah is almost uncanny.”
  
  Gandhi, currently on tour in the Bombay-Karnataka (north-western) region of the state, has been quoting several of Basavanna’s philosophic poems in his speeches, which despite mispronunciations, has found favour with the public. He has avoided the temple\religious run in that region, also a hotbed of Lingayat politics and a stronghold of the BJP.
  
  Shah held meetings with farmers on Sunday at Humnabad (Gandhi held one in Sindhanoor), where he was told that the Centre needed to waive loans and asking the state to do it was not correct. “He lied to us and said that the Centre had not waived money or NPAs for industrialists, but we are aware of the truth. We told him we are not Congress or BJP or Janata Dal. We don’t want promises, we want action now,” farmer leader Mallikarjunswamy of Bidar told ET. He said about 12 leaders had spoken from among the 2,000-odd farmers present at the interaction and explained to Shah, in Hindi, how the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana had failed as the control was in the hands of private insurance companies.
  
  “We told Rahul Gandhi also, when we met him at Basavakalyan airport, that the government needs to be committed to farmers’ welfare and waive loans,” farmer leader Sidramappa Andure from Bhalki said. “We told him (chief minister)   is not listening to us and that the farmer will survive and not commit suicide only if good prices are given for crop and the Swaminathan committee report is implemented.”
  
  Shah scored brownie points by visiting the family of a farmer who committed suicide in Mangalgi village. He then addressed a public rally at Shorapur (Surpur) where the gathered public, used to long monologues, were much entertained by his style of getting them to respond to his questions. “We gave lakhs of crores to Karnataka government from the Centre, did you get any of it?” he asked. When BJP national joint secretary (organisation) B L Santosh translated it to Kannada, the crowd roared, “No!”
  
  Another point that Shah made, likening the Siddaramaiah government to the erstwhile Nizam of Hyderabad who ruled this region upto 1948, a full year after Indian independence, got cheers from the crowd. He also told them that farmers’ suicides had hit a high in Karnataka and the state needed a “supportive BJP government” for their lot to recover.
  
  Shah addressed another rally in Kalaburagi city, where Gandhi also spoke during his visit (Kalaburagi two assembly segments, one held by the BJP and the other vacant, as the Congress MLA has since died). He also met business leaders in the same location that Gandhi did. The only other elements in Shah’s tour (which Gandhi didn’t do) are a meeting at a women’s college and a visit to Malked (Manyaketha) which is an important Brahmin centre, both scheduled for Monday.
  
