CHANDIGARH: The cashstrapped municipal corporation (MC) is sending property tax notices to those who claimed to have paid the taxes regularly, much to the chagrin of city residents.

 The civic body is making desperate attempts to maximise its tax collection as the financial year is coming to end. The corporation does not have a proper record of the property tax defaulters. It has been sending hefty bills to residents, leaving them harassed, especially senior citizens. The corporation is in the process of sending notices to residents ward-wise now. Since the concept was introduced in 2013-14, the MC is collecting the tax through network of 18 e-Sampark centres, 11 eSampark kiosks, and 14 Gram Sampark centres.
 
 Lashing out at the corporation, J S Gogia, general secretary, Federation of Sectors’   (Foswac), said to cover-up their failure to maintain proper record, residents are being asked to bring record of house tax paid by them from last four years for reconciliation. “e- Sampark centres are computerised, how is it possible that the MC does not have the data of tax paid? There is a widespread resentment among residents, as the record kept by the MC is not in order,” said Gogia, who also received the notice despite paying tax regularly.
 
 The federation has written to the UT adviser and MC commissioner for taking action against the erring officials for not maintaining proper record. Dr  , president,  , said residents, who have misplaced the receipts of tax paid, are being told to again clear their dues. “Many residents, mostly senior citizens, have misplaced their receipts. Many of them are living alone and are being made to run from pillar to post to get their data updated,” rued Darshan Singh.
 Dr Jagpal Singh, president, Sector 35 Residents Welfare Association, said, “Senior citizens, especially those living alone, are facing a lot of harassment. Action should be taken against the erring officials for non-maintenance of record.”
 
 Anil Kumar Garg, additional commissioner, accepted that data of tax paid by residents at e-Sampark centres was not reconciled. He, however, said they have now managed to compile the data. “From now on, we are sending notices only to defaulters,” said Garg.
 
 The officials of the corporation during one of the house meetings held last year accepted the exact figures of properties, both commercial and residential, were not available and were in process of compiling them.
 
 
