Any talk of independent music in India is incomplete without the mention of  , the founder and frontman of Euphoria. The band is known for their vibrant desi-tinged tracks like ‘Maeri’, ‘Kabhi Aana Tu Meri Gali’, ‘Dhoom Pichak Dhoom’ among others, which released nearly 20 years ago. They were in Mumbai last month. While the singer appreciates the diverse forms and styles that have overtaken the musical landscape since Indi-pop, he confesses that he misses the music of the 90s and the early 2000s. “It’s a pity that the Indi-pop era of the 90s and the early 2000s has disappeared. I miss it. Punjabi music is the only industry that is thriving in a country that is still trying to figure out the kind of music to support. They’re still making music videos and non-Bollywood stuff. What’s more, many of their songs find their way into Bollywood,” says Sen, adding, “I hope that better times arrive. Creativity and culture should be free from the shackles of money.” 

 ‘Monotonous is the word he uses to describe the current music scenario. “There’s just one style of singing, music and expression… the lyrics are similar too,” says the musician. “We are so bereft of ideas that old songs are being recreated. Someone needs to wake up and do something about this. Last year, I was to make a proposal to the government, asking them why non-filmi music doesn’t find any place on TV or radio. We need some space for that. Otherwise, we are just sitting ducks for people who have a lot of money and can bulldoze their way to do anything,” he adds.
 
 Music buffs recall the role the band played in blurring the lines between rock, pop and folk to come up; it came to be known as Hind Rock. Talking about the rock culture in India, Sen says, “We’ve always had rock bands in the country – be it Indus Creed, Shiva or 13AD. Even now, bands like Underground Authority, Junkyard Groove, Thermal and a Quarter, Motherjane are doing some great work. Having said that, everybody’s expression of rock is different. Swarathma, Faridkot, Astitva and some Bangla bands like Cactus and Fossil have their own interpretation of it. The rock music scene is not as strong as it was in our times, where  ,  ,   were known to do their own thing. Film music has done enough to eclipse any kind of non-filmi, independent music. The only reason we thrived was because of the audience. They deserve different forms of entertainment… they deserve independent music.”
 Talking about the changes in his own band line-up in the last two decades, Sen says that every member has brought their own style to the music over the years. “We’re only getting younger by the day,” he quips, elaborating, “The music is getting younger and quirkier. We are looking at different ways to express ourselves. The way we composed ‘Halla Bol’ or ‘Item’ was different from our other compositions. Even when we’re not playing, we get together every day at our studio and jam.”
 
 Sen has not only lent his voice to a few Bollywood songs, but also composed for a few films, including a Malayalam film. Ask him, if he is consciously keeping away from films, and he denies it. “It’s not that I don’t want to work for films. I’m a musician, a creative person, and I’d love to compose in whatever capacity I can. I’ve worked in a lot of formats myself — be it corporate or government videos, or films. I would love to be a part of the film industry, but people aren’t really asking me (laughs!). It’s just that I’m not the kind of person who networks and asks people for work. I’ve been around for 19 years; people know what I am capable of. If someone thinks that I can do something, I will do it.” 
 
 Sen is currently working on a couple of projects, which includes an album. “I’ve always tried to do something new with every album. So, my next album, which is about love and anecdotes from my life, will have a short film released with every song."
 
  
  
 
