MOHALI: In the past one week, Mohali   have caught two separate gangs roaming on city streets with crores of demonetised currency notes. Mohali police have so far arrested seven persons accused of being in possession of demonetised currency over Rs 2 crore.

 The police said that in the separate interrogations of the two gangs revealed that the old currency was to be exchanged either in Panchklula or Mohali. Police have apprehensions that some senior nationalized bank officials are involved in the racket.
 
 Senior Superintendent of Police ( ) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “The fact cannot be ignored that people have been caught roaming with huge amount of demonetised currency on the streets of the city and we believe that this can be a part of big racket of exchanging the demonetised currency.”
 
 When reminded that the window to exchange demonetised currency had already been closed by the Centre and RBI, the SSP said the police are yet to work out the gangs’ modus operandi. “This is yet to be ascertained. Even we are curious to know that who and how someone is exchanging the demonetised currency at this stage. We may see big names being revealed in the investigations.”
 
 The police remand of Ram Singh, one of the four accused caught with Rs 1 crore demonetised currency on Saturday evening, has been extended by another day. Deputy superintendent of police   said, “We believe that the demonetised currency was to be exchanged and we suspect involvement of senior bank officers and some big names may also be revealed later during the investigations. At present, we only know that demonetised currency worth Rs 2 crore has been seized and the accused claimed that they are just the carriers and were promised 2% of the cash once the money reaches the persons involved in exchanging it. The second gang brought the demonetised notes from   district whereas the first gang got the notes from Delhi. The common point is that the two gangs were to get the notes exchanged either in Panchkula or Mohali.”
 
 BOX
 
 ASI wanted old currency to be exchanged
 
 ASI  , resident of Jhajjar, caught in connection with the first case, claimed during his interrogation that he wanted to get his old currency exchanged. He told the   that around Rs 20 lakh in old currency, which was added to Rs 1.05 crore to be exchanged, belonged to him.
 
 DSP Kanwalpreet Singh Chahal said, “The ASI claimed that he was lured by the other two accused to get his old currency exchanged along with their notes. So he agreed and handed over his old currency to them. He was caught when the two accused named him.” Later, the   government suspended the ASI.
 
 
