According to veteran artist  , moods of the mind and the things around us can be created and captured finely into a canvas through water colour. His works in the medium along with other artists Koya NKP Muthu and Sunil Linus De titled Whisper in the Valley are displayed at Suryakanti Art Gallery at Thiruvananthapuram. 

 Sadhu is a former art instructor at Brushman’s School of Arts, Kannur. Apart from showcasing his works, he also conducted a demonstration on the technicalities of using water colour as a medium in a simpler way to make it easier for the common man to pursue.
 
 Being an eminent figure in this medium of art for the past 35 years, he says, “Paintings created out of water colour give one a cool feeling. The brush strokes that blend colour and water are not only a visual treat but also delight a person.”
 Through the half hour demo, his efforts were to make the audience aware of the beauty of the medium, which is vanishing from the artistic sphere. “It needs a lot of patience and one cannot ‘undo’ anything the strokes make on canvas. These two factors have made artists opt for other medium like acrylic and oil paint,” says Sadhu, who is a member of International Watercolour Society.
 
 The artist also stresses that the key to making a beautiful watercolour is controlling the water and letting the medium and paper accentuate the colour.
 “In other mediums like oil or acrylic, for example, to portray the realistic shining of the human eyes, in the final finish we will mark a white spot on the iris. But in the watercolour medium as we don’t use black and white much, we make room for the white spot in the beginning itself. We apply the colours directly on the white canvas and then detail it according to the shades we need unlike in other mediums where we mix the colour before applying them on canvas,” says Sadhu.
 
 On what prompted him to give demos, he says, “I started after many approached me to know more about the technicalities of watercolour. This helps generate interest among the youth to use the medium.”
 
