LUDHIANA: A day after   (LIP) leaders alleged that the son of outgoing mayor Harcharan Singh   attacked their supporter with the handle of a pistol, Ludhiana police registered a case against him at Shimlapuri police station. 

 Lok Insaf Party (LIP) supporter and industrialist  , a resident of SAS Nagar, said the incident took place when Amanjot Singh Gohalwaria was trying to tear the poster of an LIP candidate from Ward Number 41, from where his mother Pushwant Kaur (outgoing Mayor's wife), is contesting on the Shriomani Akali Dal ticket. He said when he tried to stop him, the former mayor’s son assaulted him.
 
 However denying the allegations Amanjot has also filed a complaint into the incident following which a cross FIR has been lodged. 
 
 Meanwhile in his complaint against Amanjot, the complainant said the accused also tried to shoot him but his weapon misfired, after which he fled the spot.
 
 The complainant said he was not a member of LIP but supported it. Police have lodged a case under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon) of the IPC and various sections of the Arms Act against Amanjot Singh Gohalwaria, Satnam Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and four unidentified persons. 
 
 Police have also lodged a cross FIR against Parveen Goyal and his accomplices under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 295 (Injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) of the IPC on the complaint of Amanjot Singh Gohalwaria. 
 
 In his complaint, Gohalwaria said LIP supporters were pasting posters of party’s ward 41 candidate at a house in SAS Nagar without the house owner’s permission. He said they barged inside the house forcibly.
 
 The complainant alleged that when they reached the place, the house owner was having a heated argument with the accused. Denying allegations made against him, he said he does not have a pistol as he deposited it with the police in the wake of imposition of the model code of conduct. Investigating officer of the case, assistant sub-inspector Jatinder Singh said the accused will be arrested after investigations. 
 
 MLA and LIP chief Simarjeet Bains however accusing Congress and SAD of being hand inglove claimed that the LIP supporters were injured in the matter and an cross FIR clearly pointed towards a nexus by which LIP supporters are being targeted. 
 
 The LIP leader said that if the son of outgoing mayor is claiming that he has deposited his licensed weapon, he might have used illegal weapon and the police should probe that. He added that he has already lodged written complaint with Commissioner of police to shift the SHO Shimlapuri, who he claimed was promoting Goonda elements and was unable to maintain peace in the area. “To press for transfer of SHO Shimlapuri and action into the matter, we are planning to stage protest against police tomorrow outside CP’s office,” said Junior Bains.
 
 In the meanwhile, Amanjot Singh Gohalwaria claimed that MLA Bains was using his old tactics to gain ‘cheap’ publicity. Outgoing Mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria alleged that during the argument, LIP workers tossed turban of his party workers.
 
 
