GANDHINAGAR: One of the working presidents of the   and the newly appointed   (LOP) in the  ,   has launched a programme to renovate Ram temples in all the villages of his Amreli constituency.

  “The aim is to provide nagara, shankh, bell etc., to the temples and at the same time revive the culture of Ramji Mandir gam no choro (village chowk) in Saurashtra,” said Dhanani.
 
  At the choro, villagers used to meet in the morning and evening for cultural bondings. Dhanani will do this in his personal capacity through his NGO ‘Parivartan’.
 
 “In every election since 1980, BJP raises the issue of building the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and forgets it as soon as the polls are over. Similar is the case with the Article 370 in Jammu & Kashmir. When I visited the 114 villages in my constituency during the recent poll campaigns, I got to know that only two or four villages have Ramji Mandir at the gam no choro that used to be the meeting place in the villages and an important place for social bondings. Due to the neglect in the BJP rule in the state, all these temples are currently in a dilapidated condition,” said Dhanani.
 
 “I discussed the issue with the villagers and prepared volunteers in these villages who can devote time for the morning and evening aartis and takes care of the temples. My NGO, Parivartan, will provide the necessary items to the temples. 
 
 Unlike BJP, we don’t use Lord Ram for collecting votes. Ramji Mandirs in villages play a key role in the social and cultural development of the villages and help people in living a stress-free life as the daily visit to temples gives them immense pleasure and peace,” said the Congress leader.
 
 Reacting to Dhanani’s initiative, BJP spokesperson Bharat Pandya said, “Congress is a party which refused to accept the existence of Lord Ram and tried to stop the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. If they really worship Lord Ram, they should first stop dividing people on caste, religion other issues. Congress has worshipped and can worship only Nehru-Gandhi family.”
 
 
