Ludhiana: Putting an end to the stalemate among the MC officials vis-a-vis recent extension of the deadline of one time property tax settlement scheme with 10 % rebate, Mayor Balkar Sandhu has asked the officials to give rebate to the public by March end. However, the officials were charging 10% penalty from the tax payers instead of giving them 10% rebate. 

 The mayor even conveyed that those who filled their tax with 10% penalty, will be able to get their tax amount adjusted next year. Recently local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had issued the orders to extend the last date of one-time property tax settlement scheme to March 31 and people could avail of 10% rebate over the scheme. The officials however received the notification regarding the orders but they claimed it was not clear. In the previous notification, the local bodies department had fixed the deadline till January 15 with 10& rebate and from January 16, till April 15 there was a provision of 10 % penalty. Now the officials claimed in the notification that it has not been mentioned whether the first deadline has been extended from January 15 or the second deadline has been brought ahead from April 15 till March 31.
 
 Sandhu said, “There was some confusion with the officials regarding this notification which has been clarified now and they have been asked not to impose 10% penalty from people but instead give them rebate.” He claimed that the amount which has been recovered in the form of penalty will be adjusted in next tax return. Meanwhile the mayor also conducted a meeting with the officials on the recovery of pending dues on Wednesday. The recovery of water supply and sewerage dues is low as compared to other wings of the MC. The mayor has asked the officials to pull up their socks and recover as much amount as they can in the remaining 4 days.
 
 MC Suvidha centres to collect tax till 5pm
 
 The civic officials recovered Rs 1 crore from the property tax returns on Wednesday. The superintendent Vivek Verma said that from now on the Suvidha centres would function till 5pm so that more people could deposit their tax in the remaining days. He said earlier the Suvidha centers remained open till 3pm for collection of cash tax but now when there is rush at the MC offices they have taken this decision.
 
 Renew trade licenses on the basis of old licenses: Mayor to zonal commissioners 
 
 While giving the desired relief to the applicants of trade license renewal from MC, mayor Balkar Sandhu has instructed the zonal commissioners of four zones not to seek documents again from them. Some of the residents were complaining they were forced to submit the documents every year even when they had to just renew their licenses. The mayor has ordered that trade licence should be renewed on the basis of old licence so as to save their time. The trade licence is required to run a business in the city and MC issues trade licence every year. The last date to get new and renewed licence is March 31 and people were complaining of the unnecessary delay from the end of officials. It will prove to be a relief for these people. 
 
 
