RAJKOT: The infighting in   Temple Trust, the most powerful Leuva Patel organization, has escalated. 

 After the resignation and withdrawal drama by founder Naresh Patel earlier this week, another trustee   has decided to resign from the body. 
 
 Gajera said he would submit his resignation at the board meeting on Friday.
 
 The temple trust, although a non-political organization, holds considerable sway over how the powerful Leuva Patel community votes. The organization has been virtually divided into two camps — one supporting Naresh Patel and another in favour of Gajera.
 
 When contacted, Gajera told TOI, “I feel pained when people chant slogans against me and allege that I interfere in Nareshbhai’s decision. I am going to offer my resignation in tomorrow’s meeting. I deny the allegation that I worked for BJP during the election. I have never asked anybody to vote for any political party. I did not issue any statement in favor of any political party and have not shared stage with any political leader during the campaign.” 
 
 Naresh Patel couldn’t be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts. His close aide and trustee Bakul Sorathia declined to comment saying, “I have no knowledge of any dispute between them.” 
 
 Sources said that the roots of the present infighting lie in last year’s assembly elections in which BJP managed to win just 99 seats. According to some insiders at the temple trust, both BJP and   tried to convince the followers of the organization to vote in their favour by influencing their trustees. This, even as Naresh Patel has publicly maintained since the organization’s inception in 2010 that no political interference will be allowed in its activities.
 
 A person close to the developments said, “Many feel that Naresh Patel has a soft corner for the Congress, which was proved with his closed-door meetings with then party vice president   during the election campaign, his blessings to   and his son Shivraj openly declaring support to Congress candidates of Rajkot a day before the voting day.” 
 
 On the other hand, there is a group which claims that Gajera’s heart beats for BJP. “He had invited chief minister Vijay Rupani at his residence for dinner during the election campaign and played a key role in arranging a Patidar gathering at Satyam party plot just few days before voting in which Rupani was also present. Some Patidars alleged that BJP had high-jacked the community’s function,” said an insider. 
 
 “It was always a case among the trustees that some have soft corner for BJP and some for Congress. But they did not make Khodaldham a political platform till date,” one of the trustees told TOI.
 
 Patel had also resigned from the Sardar Patel Cultural Foundation, which he had started after Khodaldham Trust. But he withdrew this resignation too.
 
 The students at this foundation and student committee members of the Khodaldham Trust had also shouted slogans criticizing Gajera on Wednesday. It is also learnt that Patel wants Gajera replaced as the president. However, other committees of the temple trust have not shown any protest against Gajera. 
 
 
