Vadodara: Dramatic scenes were witnessed near Chhani Jakatnaka where people nabbed a bootlegger selling country-made liquor pouches near a residential society. The citizens called local municipal councillors and the police to hand over the liquor along with an accused.

 The issue of liquor being sold near the Yoginagar Society had cropped up when a corporator was called there in wake of garbage and vegetation being dumped near the society. The residents also complained to her regarding the rampant liquor sale and some corrective action was also taken. But the the bootlegger Kala alias Taliyo Chunara returned in the evening and started selling pouches there.
 
 This was the second incident of its kind on consecutive days when citizens have raised the issue of sale of country-made liquor. On Friday, residents of Maneja had gone to the Makarpura police station with plastic pouches of liquor in form of a protest.
 
 Congress corporator Pushpa Waghela said that the garbage and other material being removed from the Pensionpura pond was being dumped near Yoginagar. “The residents had removed the keys of the vehicles engaged in this work and called me. We got the material removed from the spot,” she said. 
 
 At this time, Waghela was also intimated regarding liquor being sold from some shanties there and the garbage containers of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) being used for keeping liquor pouches.
 
 Waghela said that the shanties were removed by VMC and the garbage containers were also shifted from the spot. She said that the residents called her along with the other corporators again in the evening and informed that liquor was being sold in the area again. “There was a large group that had gathered at the site. We reached there and the police was also called,” she said.
 
 Another Congress corporator from the area Jaha Desai said that the liquor had been brought to the site in two nylon sacks used for keeping cement. “The residents claimed that they had raised the issue with the police earlier too,” he said. The issue also went viral on the social media.
 
 Fatehgunj police inspector S G Solanki said that policemen were already present when the razing was being done. “When razing the shanties, the liquor was found in one of them,” he said adding that nobody had complained regarding the liquor trade to the police earlier. One person was held in connection with the seizure.
 
 
