TIRUPUR: Twenty-two out of 32 students of Class XII of a private CBSE school in   have failed in the board examination this year. What has been clueless for both the students and their parents is that many of them have scored in single digits. 

 Blaming the school management for allegedly providing poor coaching, the students and parents blocked the road in front of the school on Monday. They also sought the district collector’s intervention to act against the school. But the school management replied: “The results were worst because those students were reckless and careless.”
 
 This is the second batch of students to appear for the board exam from the private school on Amaravathipalayam Road at Vijayapuram. 
 
 Last year, only two students appeared for the board exam from the school and both cleared. But this year, only 10 could clear all the five subjects. Nine have failed in one subject and they would be eligible to write compartment exam. Thirteen students have failed in multiple subjects.
 
 Among the 13 students, most of them have studied Class X in the same school and wrote the school-based annual exam (instead of board exams), in which exam date fixation and answer sheet evaluation would be done by the school management itself. All of them have scored more than 90% and some even obtained 100% (500 marks out of 500) in Class X. “My son had got 500 out of 500 in Class X, but now he has failed in three subjects in Class XII, all of those marks were in single digit. In mathematics, he scored zero mark. I trusted the school and expected at least decent marks. We couldn’t make where it went wrong,” said the father of a student.
 
 “I could not believe those marks. How could they award me zero mark in mathematics? I was expecting at least 50-60 marks in the subject,” said the student.
 
 Many students blamed the school management for allegedly providing poor coaching. “When we went to meet the school management, they refused to meet us collectively but only ready to meet us individually. Despite our continuous requests, they did not agree, and we were not allowed inside the school. So, we staged a road roko in front of the school to attract their attention,” said the mother of another student.
 
 When contacted, academic coordinator of the school told TOI: “We provided qualified teaching staff and we expected good marks from the students. But unexpectedly, many failed and even scored very low marks. We should find whether there were mistakes in the evaluation. We don’t know why the students are against us. We will help them to apply for revaluation and reverification.”
 
 
