CHENNAI: In a third bust in as many months, the   ( ) on Monday seized a major shipment of   on the   — seizing 287kg of the banned tobacco derivative worth Rs 6 lakh — that smuggling cartels have dipatched on the train to the state from the capital.

 RPF officers discovered what the consignment contained around 12 hours after the express pulled into   station at 8.30pm on Sunday and staff unloaded the cargo on platform 5.
 
 The seizure added to suspicions that one or more gangs with well-oiled and systematic networks are transporting large quantities of gutka from the north to Tamil Nadu.
 
 Previous seizures from the the same train include the February 5 confiscation of 200 bundles of chewing tobacco at   and the April 23 seizure at   of 12 sacks of gutka worth Rs 15 lakh. Between those busts, on February 24, the police seized 2,400kg of gutka, transported by trains from Delhi, at a cargo terminal in the city.
 
 On Sunday night, railway police personnel led by RPF, Egmore, inspector V Mohan kept vigil on the cargo — in poly sacks from which they detected a foul smell — that arrived on the Tirukkural Express, waiting to see if someone would claim them.
 
 “Nobody claimed the cargo, so we took it to the parcel office and weighed it in the presence of chief parcel supervisor Kamala Kannan It contained ‘MDM Gutkha’ packets,” Mohan told TOI. “It was the first time that RPF seized gutka at Egmore Railway Station.”
 
 Mohan said an agent in Delhi dispatched the cargo in the train’s luggage van. Someone in Chennai was supposed to collect the cargo. “We are investigating the case further,” he said, adding that the RPF had handed over the gutka to the food safety department.
 
 Senior divisional security commissioner Louis Amuthan, who heads the RPF in Chennai, has formed a special squad to seize gutka smuggled by train.
 
 A report by a Chennai lab said tests of samples from the Madurai seizure contained “unsafe and prohibited” substances. The Government Railway Police have filed FIRs in the Madurai and Dindigul seizures and are probing those cases.
 
 Railway security officers say they can’t check every parcel on trains as customers would allege that it was a ruse to collect bribes.
 
 “We are yet to develop a mechanism where we can check if contraband is being smuggled through trains,” a senior officer admitted. “Our system is porous.”
 
 
