Thiruvananthapuram: Setting a new ground in favour of the   – proposed by the state law reforms commission chaired by   in  , a section of the laity, represented by two Christian action councils, is planning to organize a march to secretariat, demanding immediate consideration of the controversial bill that had been kept in cold storage by successive governments, fearing political backlash.

 The Kerala Church Properties and Institutions Trust Bill was proposed by the former law reforms commission as a longstanding solution to the confusions and problems arising from the management or mismanagement of large swathes of land and properties under the custody of Christian churches and its heads. However, the bill attracted severe criticism from the church and laity. It was construed as a move to subvert the church’s grip over its properties. Eventually, the bill was reviled by politicians, priests and laity in varied degrees.
 
 The secretariat march – asking the government to pass the bill in the assembly – is being jointly organised by All Kerala Church Act Action Council (AKCAAC) and Malankara Action Council for Church Act Bill Implementation (MACCABI). The action councils will take out a march from Palayam Martyrs’ Square and stage a dharna in front of the Secretariat on May 22.
 
 “The Church Act (bill) proposes the establishment of forums, democratically-elected by the laity, for the management of church properties. It’s impossible to implement the canon law of a foreign country to prevail in our country. The absence of a law of the land for the appropriate management of church properties is causing problems. The current scenario gives church heads unbridled powers in the management of church properties. The recent controversies involving land dealings by church authorities are part of this,” said joint action council leaders on Saturday.
 
 “We were among those who objected the bill when it was proposed. It was due to our ignorance. We are now confident that the bill could only have a positive effect. All other religious communities have Property Acts except the Christian community,” said Youhanon Ramban, director of MACCABI.
 
 
