Trichy: Universities offering distance education courses are in a fix over the recent announcement of University Grants Commission (UGC) that a minimum CGPA of 3.26, on a four-point scale, in National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC) was necessary to run the courses.

 The higher education department has now asked UGC to relax the norm to enable all state universities to run distance education courses. It has also directed the affected seven state universities to make individual representations to UGC in this regard.
 
 Out of the 119 dual mode universities in the country that offer distance education courses, less than 40 are eligible as per the new UGC rule thereby keeping 80-odd universities out of reckoning. In Tamil Nadu, only three of the total 10 universities offering distance courses under the higher education department are eligible and the rest have to close down.
 
 “While Anna, Madras and Alagappa universities are in the safe zone, those like Annamalai in Chidambaram which began offering distance education much before the advent of Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) are on the verge of closure,” said a senior official of the higher education department.
 
 Bharathiar University which has been ranked 12th in the country in the NIRF ranking, cannot offer courses in the distance mode as it has a CGPA of only 3.11 under NAAC. “We have decided to approach UGC seeking relaxation of up to 3.0 in Category 2 from the existing 3.26 so that all state universities are eligible to run courses,” said Bharathidasan University vice-chancellor P Manisankar. 
 
 Wishing to remain anonymous, another state university VC said that the UGC should have stability in its policies. “It is wrong to come out with such decisions without consulting the universities. The UGC did not bother about what would happen to the students currently enrolled in these distance education courses,” the VC said.
 
 Former vice-chancellor of Bharathiar University S Sivasubramanian, who holds experience in heading various NAAC committees, said that he stood for quality and that whenever there was relaxation in norms people tended to misuse it. However, he added that timebound relaxation could be considered for students who were currently enrolled. He also said that the universities should prove to be competent and eligible to run such courses.
 
 Former president of association of university teachers (AUT), K Pandiyan, claimed that the move was to cut down on the number of universities offering distance education. “The present dispensation at the UGC wants to open the higher education field to international market by enabling foreign universities to offer online course in collaboration with our universities. Since distance education courses offered by our universities will be a hurdle to foreign online courses, the UGC had in 2014-15 imposed jurisdictional restriction and asked them to offer distance courses within their region” he said.
 
 
