NAGPUR: The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has slammed a local animal welfare organization for putting environment and human health in danger by violating Bio-medical Waste Management Rules, 2016.

 TOI had earlier reported that sterilization of stray dogs has been started at a shelter run by Nagpur Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, at  . However, the organization failed to obtain authorization to dispose off bio-medical waste, which is mandatory as per the rules.
 
 Based on a complaint filed by activist   regarding generation of large quantity of bio-medical waste at the shelter without authorization, a team of board officials inspected the shelter. They found that bio-medical waste was not stored in a scientific manner. “Cotton waste and syringes were disposed by burning, dead animals by burial method, and saline bottles were sold to scrap vendors,” the board stated.
 
 Pointing out that unscientific handling of bio-medical waste can adversely effect human health and the environment, MPCB has sought an explanation from the   within seven days. “The organization is liable for all damage caused to the public and environment,” added MPCB.
 
 Shah said that it was also the duty of   (NMC) to ensure that norms are followed during sterilization process. “Bio-medical waste management rules apply to all who generate, collect, receive, store, transport, treat, dispose, or handle bio-medical waste in any form. Breach of these rules is a serious threat, especially for nearby residents,” she said, adding that used cotton and surgical equipment can spread many infections.
 
 In September 2015, the board had issued a show cause notice to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) regarding unscientific disposal of bio-medical waste at its animal shelter in Bhandewadi. During their visit at that time, the board officials had found similar discrepancies, including improper burying of dead animals, and improper disposal of bio-medical waste, which included animal waste, needles, syringes, scalpels, blades, glass and other solid waste.
 
 
