THANE: The Thane district health department has sent out advisories asking people in the rural and tribal belts to ensure that they do not eat any fallen fruits, due to outbreak of the Nipah   in  .

 The officials stated that though there are no such cases in the state they are just making people aware about the virus so that they take preventive measures and know about its symptoms. 
 
 It is suspected that those who died in Kerala after being attacked by the   virus were infected after they consumed water from a well, which was contaminated by fruit bats. “As of now no cases of Nipah virus have been reported in the state, but we are still taking all the preventive measures and even informing citizens about the precautions that can be taken. We have asked locals from villages and even the tribal belts not to eat fallen fruits. It is said that the outbreak of the virus in Kerala was probably due to fruit bats, but the reports confirming the same are yet to be released, but we still advising citizens not to consume raw fruits as if they are contaminated, then they can be infect the consumer,” said Dr  , deputy director of health services (DDHS).
 
 Even the symptoms of the virus have been informed to people, which are – fever, nausea, headache, vomiting, stiffness in neck, photophobia, etc. They have been asked, especially the ones who have visited Kerala recently, to immediately go to the doctor if they suspect to be infected.
 
 “If anyone suspects that they are infected, then they should immediately go to a nearby health centre or a state-run hospital for a check-up. If the doctors confirm that they have any such symptoms, then they will be tested for the disease. Once a person is infected, the symptoms can be seen within four to 14 days. We have even kept isolation rooms in various hospitals ready, with all the equipment required for life support,” added  .
 
 As of now no cases of Nipah virus have been reported in the state, but we are still taking all the preventive measures and even informing citizens about the precautions that can be taken
 
 
