While flowers, heart-shaped chocolates, balloons and soft toys as gifts may make you go ‘awwww’, collegians don’t feel the same about celebrating Valentine’s Day with that special someone. The dynamics of the day have changed in recent times, most students don’t feel mushy about it. In fact, they tell BT that they don’t think it’s that big a deal for them…

 
 
 Forget Valentine’s Day, most cities in the country decided to celebrate a Valentine’s Week, beginning with the Rose Day on February 7. What followed were Propose Day, Chocolate Day, Teddy Day, Promise Day, Hug Day as a countdown to Valentine’s Day today. Ironically, an event aimed at young lovers met with tepid response in the campuses. Says SYBCom student Akhilesh Kumar, “Only a few cheesy couples, who I know of, follow it. Otherwise, it’s merely a day to wish each other and buy a chocolate or two. It’s not love, when you have to wait for a day or week to celebrate it or make your girlfriend/boyfriend feel special.” Adds Himanshu Manwani, a   student from  , “Most from my friends’ circle, find it funny that one would wait for February 14 to express their feelings to a person they claim to love. What’s even more funny is how you show your love for a week by gifting soft toys, chocolates and flowers, and then get back to the basics — this is something I would not like to participate in.” 
 
 Adding to that, Jui Mehta, TYBA,  , says, “I think celebrating Valentine’s Day is an individual thing. While some may find it cheesy, there are others who may not. I am personally not against the celebration, but it can just be with my group of friends.”
 Dissing all the hype around the day, Nikhil Yelve, a SYBCom student of HR College says, “We are in 2018. For God’s sake, we don’t need a day to tell our partner how much we love them.”  , a FYBA student of Jai Hind College, asks, “What’s the fuss about the day?” He adds, “ In my opinion, it is an overrated concept, which involves wasting money, time and mental resources. It’s a very good marketing and PR exercise for companies targeting consumers.”
 
 
 
 Terming the day as more of a show-off exercise, many slam the celebrations. A few of them also feel that the real purpose and sweet gestures are lost in flaunting love.  , a FYBMS of Jai Hind College, says, “Gestures like going to parks and movies or simply sharing an ice cream and going for a long walk have given way to materialistic items and expensive gifts. It’s all about going to fancy restaurants to celebrate it and people are in a race to stand out.” 
 
 Many feel that these acts are superficial and just so one can brag about it to their friends. Ishita Pandey, a fourth year BLS LLB student of Government Law College says, “I don’t celebrate it because I don’t feel the need to dedicate one day to make someone feel special. Plus, there’s a lot of pressure on people to do something for Valentine’s Day. I prefer impromptu gifts and surprises to keep a relationship fun.” Adds Kashish Sharma, a SYBA student of Jai Hind College, “It seems like people are ‘forced’ to do something for their partner rather than actually wanting to do something. Making the day ‘special’ has become a duty rather than it being something that comes from within.” A few have chosen to not give in to the pressure, though. Rohan Deshmukh, a FYBA student of Mithibai College, says, “Love should be celebrated all through the year and not particularly on one day. While I would definitely like to spend some more time with my girlfriend on the day, I may not do anything special.”
 
 Dismissing Valentine’s as a product of commercialisation, Jeet Thackeray, a SYBA Film Television and   Production student from UPG College, says, “Everyone wants to jump on the bandwagon. While romantic love is all cool, the commercialisation around it leaves no space for how a person actually feels. It is more a day of show and pomp.” 
 
 
 
 For many who celebrate Valentine’s Day, the day is an extension of expressing love to anyone, and not just a romantic partner. Many choose to express their love and gratitude to parents, sibling, friend or teacher. Sneha Arora, SYBMS student of HR College, defends, “I do have a date for Valentine’s but guess what, it’s not with a guy, but with my best friend. The concept of celebrating the day with a lover has changed over the years. It now embraces all forms of love and is celebrated with siblings, family and our BFFs.” 
 
 Priyanka Gandhi, FYBA, Sathaye College has no plans to celebrate the day with her boyfriend, and her reasons for that are different. She says, “I don’t find anything wrong about Valentine’s. But I would prefer to have a house party with a couple of my friends who are dating, than venture out because of the moral policing that takes place on this day.”
 
  
 
 With social media coming in picture, collegians feel that the day has become impersonal. Priyanka Rathod, a TYBMS student of RD National College, says, “All I see are love-filled captions and posts on  , special filters on image messaging apps and a photoshoots at pretty looking places on the day. It’s more about posting it on social media than anything else.” Adds Third Year BLS LLB student,  , “People, who used to meet to celebrate the day, now order a gift online and send it across to the other person. The joy of meeting someone in person has vanished with digitisation.”
 
