JAISALMER: Police caught a Chinese citizen doing photography with a drone camera near Sonar fort on Thursday. At present he is being inquired, but till now nothing suspicious has come to light. All security and intelligence agencies are interrogating him. 

 According to information from police sources, as the war exercise   of the Indian air force is going on lately and a lot of fighter planes are moving in the air therefore, police became suspicious when information about the Chinese tourist doing photography in a prohibited area came to light. 
 
 Sources said that he told police his name is   and that he is a resident of Shanghai, China. Till now, no objectionable items or photos were found. He is being inquired by all security and intelligence agencies at a joint interrogation centre. He said that he had come to Jaisalmer and was doing photography as a hobby. He claimed that he was not aware that it is a prohibited area and that photography using drone camera is banned. Meanwhile, defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s programme to attend the on-going war exercise on Friday was postponed as she was busy at the defence expo in Chennai. 
 
 In another incident on Thursday, CID BI police have arrested three Pakistani citizens, including two women for violation of visa on their arrival at border   police station area in Jaisalmer. After an initial inquiry, all of them were deported back to Pakistan. 
 
 CID BI additional SP Rajeev Dutta said that the three of them identified as Amir Bux, 65, Jamali Mai, 63, and Huran Baby, 70, came to India through   on a 30-day visa. As they were all aged 60 years and above, they were given visa on arrival. But on Thursday, they were deported after violating visa conditions and going to Sadrau village under Mohangarh police station area. Amir and Jamali had come to India through Atari on April 3 and their visa expires on May 2, while Huran came to India on April 10 and her visa expires on May 9.
 
 According to sources, Jamali's parental house is at Sadrau and she had come to pay her respects to her father, who had passed away around two and a half years ago. Her visa was only upto Jaisalmer because of which she along with the other two were deported.
 
 
