CHENNAI: At 6.59pm on Wednesday evening, skygazers in the city would get a chance to   when the total lunar eclipse occurs. This is a rare event as it will coincide with blue moon (a second full moon in a month) and the   (when a full moon is closest to the Earth on its elliptic orbit). The rare event last took place in 1982 and will not occur again until 2037.

 The blue moon, which is seen once in 2.7 years, occurred last in July 2015. The supermoon occurs once in 414 days on average. During a supermoon, the moon appears about 14% larger and 30% brighter than usual. The total lunar eclipse occurs when the Earth passes between the Sun and the Moon, blocking sunlight from reaching the Moon.
 
 Tamil Nadu Science and Technology Centre executive director Dr P Iyamperumal said, “The total lunar eclipse will last an hour and 16 minutes from 6.21pm to 7.37pm on Wednesday.” When the maximum eclipse occurs at 6.59pm, only sunlight refracted through the Earth’s atmosphere will reach the Moon, making it appear dark red. The viewing of the moon is not likely to be affected as the met office has forecast clear skies on Wednesday.
 
 “The blood moon can be witnessed from rooftops,” Iyamperumal said.
 
 Space India, an educational institute involved in boosting astronomy’s popularity among the general public, will conduct a free guided observation of the event through 200mm telescopes from 6pm to 9.30pm at a site near Velankanni church, Besant Nagar. Nine school students belonging to Space India’s astronomy club will chart the luminosity of the moon every five minutes during the lunar event.
 
 According to Space India astronomy educator Manalee Deka, the Moon will change colours as it passes through the Earth’s shadow regions known as penumbra (outer) and umbra (central). “The moon will grow dim as it enters the outer shadow region. It will appear darker during total lunar eclipse when it passes into the central umbra.”
 
 During the maximum eclipse, sunlight is completely blocked from reaching the moon. “At this point, the moon appears dark red as more blue light is scattered by the earth’s atmosphere. This is also why sunsets appear red.”
 
