MYSURU: Getting rid of the garbage mound in your neighbourhood is, literally, at your fingertips.

 All that citizens tired of walking through the muck, amid the stench from the rotting, need to do is to download the ‘Swachhata App’ launched by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, and post their grievance. The   guarantees redressal of grievances within 12 hours by the authorities
 
 The new app is a fourth generation grievance redressal system that is likely to please citizens unhappy with the mechanism of local civic authorities, who are often slow in responding to complaints. Residents running into the thousands have availed of the benefits of the app since its launch. In the city,   (MCC) has attended to nearly 20,000 complaints in the past year. “The success rate if nearly 90.3% in attending the complaints, ” said Swachh Survekshan nodal officer DG Nagaraj.
 
 Among the many complaints that residents can post through the app include their locality not being swept, garbage not being collected regularly, interruptions in power supply, etc.
 
 Nagraj, MCC health officer, said that MCC’s efforts in encouraging citizens to use the app as a platform to air their grievances has received an overwhelming response. “This will help us score impressively in the citizen feedback category in the Clean Cities competition. Moreover, we have addressed more than 90% of the complaints registered on the app,” he added.
 
 Pointing out that MCC had managed to register more downloads than the target it was set, Nagaraj added, “While the target was 18,300, the number has touched 28,500 this year. A massive campaign encouraged people to download the app. The number that hovered around 4,000 in December crossed 25,000 in a month.”
 
 MCC commissioner G Jagadeesha confirmed that the civic agency was indeed attending to public grievances within 12 hours of the complaint being lodged on the app. “MCC is going all out in its efforts to reclaim the Cleanest City tag this year,” he added.
 
 Around 4,041 towns and cities of India are in the race for the coveted position of being India’s cleanest city, this year.
 
 
