BATHINDA: The state vigilance bureau on Thursday arrested   superintendent   in a case registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act against his deputy Gurjeet Singh on December 17, 2017, after Randhawa’s involvement was found in the case. He has been arrested after obtaining permission from the higher authorities.

 Jail assistant superintendent-cum-welfare officer Sikandar Singh and murder convict Pawan Kumar, who was already lodged in the jail, were booked in the case on December 17. Deputy superintendent Gurjeet is still at large and process to declare him proclaimed offender is pending in the court.
 
 The three were accused of extracting money from the family of one Gaurav Kumar of Shahabad Markanda in Haryana, who was convicted under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. During investigations it came to fore that the jail authorities were charging Rs 10,000 to Rs 25,000 per month per cell/barracks for providing a range of services, including choice cell/barracks, facility to use mobile phones and even drugs.
 
 Pawan was collecting money from the inmates on behalf of the deputy superintendent and assistant superintendent. Vigilance sleuths also recovered two registers from the jail canteen where Pawan was made to work in which entries of money were made by him. 
 
 During investigation, he had confessed to providing collected money to jail superintendent, deputy superintendent and the assistant superintendent.
 
 Gaurav was serving 12-year jail term under the NDPS Act and was made to work at the jail canteen. Another inmate Pawan of Maur town in  , who was facing 20-year imprisonment in a murder case, was also working in the canteen. 
 
 Some family members of the undertrials had deposited Rs 86,200 in Gaurav’s account to be used for their needs. Jail deputy superintendent Gurjeet learned about the money and he started demanding the said money along with Rs 50,000, saying the money could not be deposited in the names of convicts.
 
 Gaurav’s brother Ravinder Kumar had reached   on December 17, 2017, to give money. Sikandar and Pawan had come out of jail to collect Rs 50,000 from Ravinder and were arrested by the vigilance bureau. Deputy superintendent Gurjeet, however, managed to escape. 
 
 Bureau’s Bathinda SP Bhupinder Singh Sidhu said during investigations the role of jail superintendent also came up and he was arrested on Thursday. 
 
 
