NAGPUR: The   (NU) and Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA) are on a clash course over  . While the university wants its seating capacity to be minimum 2,000 for its convocation ceremonies, NMRDA has finalized plans for an auditorium with 1,500 seats.

 A source in the NMRDA told TOI that tenders for construction of the auditorium would be floated soon. “The state government has already sanctioned Rs 20 crore for the project. Our architect has recently submitted detailed estimate of civil work costing Rs15 crore. The estimate for other works will be available soon. We will then go for the tender process,” he said.
 
 According to the source, the metro region agency plans to complete the auditorium by June 2020. “However, this deadline can be met only if the university hands over the land to us soon,” he said.
 
 NU registrar Puran Meshram is upset with the NMRDA officials. “They have finalized the plan without informing us. We are providing seven acre land near Ambazari lake and are ready to contribute financially to the project for increasing its seating capacity. We will lodge a protest with the NMRDA and may discuss the issue in our Management Council meeting. We need a bigger auditorium for university functions,” said the registrar.
 
 The NMRDA official said that the auditorium would have three levels — lower ground, upper ground and balcony — each with seating capacity of 500. “The front stage will be 6.7 metre by 15 metre while the back one will be 5.3 metre by 24.6 metre. We will construct three make-up rooms for artists. There will be a VIP lounge where ministers and other important persons can wait until the function starts. A pantry will be built for catering to them,” he added. The auditorium will have parking space for 200 cars and 200 two-wheelers.
 
 The auditorium will be air-cooled and not air-conditioned. “The government may later sanction more money for making it fully air-conditioned. Similarly, there is no canteen inside the auditorium. More funds will be needed for constructing one outside the hall,” said the official.
 
 The seating capacity is not the only point of contention. The university and state government both want the ownership of the auditorium.
 
 The hall sanctioned way back in 2011 could not be constructed due to unavailability of land. The government had earlier planned it near Raj Bhavan. However, local residents approached the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court over loss of open space. Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) was approached for land behind Mor Bhavan but the executive council of the university turned down the proposal.
 
 
