

 On Wednesday, the chairperson of Rajasthan Women’s Commission,  , addressing a gathering at an event, made a comment that created quite a buzz among men, as well as women. Sharma said, “There was a time when every girl used to desire a man, who has a broad chest and thick chest hair. But today, no broad-chested man can be seen and they wear  . How can one, who can’t even handle his jeans, protect sisters?” The former chief of the state BJP’s women’s wing also expressed her disappointment in men who wore earrings and “looked like girls”, adding that the concept of ‘zero figure’was popular among girls in the past but had now caught the fancy of the men as well.
 
 Her comments created quite a buzz – from incredulity, indignation and a few laughs; all kinds of reactions came from not just men, but women too. Jaipur Times spoke to few youngsters who told us that broad chest doesn’t translate to courage and that what men wear is their choice and not a reflection of what they can or can’t do. 
 
 
 
 Apoorv Tiwari, an SEO executive and a resident of Raja Park, termed her remark as bizarre and tells us, “I wear sagging jeans but men around me wear highwaist jeans. Do they qualify to protect women? Did she even think once before saying such thing on a public platform? Imagine the same thing being said by a male figure of similar stature about women? All women’s organisations would have already asked for a public apology by now!” He further adds,”And why should a girl need a
  man to protect her? Women are capable and strong enough. Instead, we should focus on making this society a better place where a woman can walk alone at night without any fear.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Lovejeet Singh Chauhan, a Jaipur-based stand-up comedian shares with us that he couldn’t stop laughing when he first heard the statements. He says, “She forgot those men who wear lungis. She should have included them too in the list. Isn’t it?” He goes on to add, “Also, broad chest does not necessarily translate to courage. To fight back, you need to be courageous – be it men or women. Our society needs broad minds and not broad chests. I hope she realises that soon.”
 
 
 
 Lovish Singh Bhati, a city-based DJ, and resident of Vaishali Nagar says, “It is 2018. Nobody wears sagging jeans anyway! She seems to be living in the past. It is no longer in fashion. I used to wear my jeans low earlier because it went well with the kind of music I play. Having said that, all I want to know is why should boys be protecting their sisters? I thought women were strong, self-sufficient who need no man to survive? And by commenting on the dressing style of men, aren’t you also objectifying them?”
 
 
 
 Shrey Bharadwaj, an electrical engineer and resident of Pratap Nagar,shares with us,“I don’t think she makes any sense. If this is her personal opinion, then she should best keep it to herself. How one’s dressing related to the safety of another individual? Women should not need men to do the job of protecting them. Also, it is important that parents need to groom gentlemen rather than bodybuilders or what she says,‘broad-chested men’.” 
 
 
