BENGALURU: Kolkata and Bengaluru have the highest residential rental yields among the 14 major Indian cities, a report from property portal 
  said. The rental yield in Kolkata is 3.9%, and in Bengaluru 3.7%. This is followed by Hyderabad (3.6%) and   (3.3%). The national average across all residential asset types is 3%.

 Markets with cheaper real estate (capital values) were found to have higher yields. The four cities which top the yield have an average capital value of about Rs 5,500 per sqft while cities such as New Delhi and Mumbai, where average capital value is more than Rs 9,000 per sqft, produce yields of between 2.5% and 2.8%.
 
 Oversupply of houses dampens rental yields
 
 This should not be surprising considering the high capital values and low rentals, the report said. Such low yields,   said, show residential investment purely on the basis of rental yield is not sustainable as it is less than half of the prevailing fixed deposit rate offered by banks.
 
 Other low average capital value cities like Noida and   have mid-level yields because over the past 12-18 months, considerable fresh supply has entered the market with many under-construction projects receiving occupation certificates. This over-supply has dampened the rentals. Hence, in spite of low capital values, the yields are in the mid-range.
 
 The report also said that other things being equal, furnished properties command higher rental and yield is disproportionate to investment made towards furnishings. At the pan-India level, the yield on furnished properties is 3.3%. Semi and unfurnished have yields of 2.9% and 2.7%, respectively.
 
 Low yields, however, mean that the Indian rental residential market remains affordable. Almost two-thirds of properties listed for rent fall in the Rs 35,000/month and less rent bracket. Within this segment, almost 50% properties are in Rs 15,000-25,000/month rent range.
 
 Builder floors — low rise buildings with two to four floors, where each floor is an independent dwelling — offer the highest rental return at 3.1%, followed by multi-storey apartments at 3%.
 
 Large format and high capital value assets like villas and residential houses have lower yields of 2.4% and 2.9%, respectively.
 
