Visakhapatnam: Indian Institute of   and Energy ( ), which was recently conferred with the status of ‘Institute of National Importance’, is likely to conclude the architect selection process to construct its permanent campus in the next one to two weeks. 

 Several national and international agencies have been competing to extend their architectural consultancy services to this premier educational institution. 
 
 The state government has allocated about 202 acres of land near Vangali village in Sabbavaram mandal, Vizag city for the permanent campus of IIPE, which is currently being operated from the precincts of Andhra University.
 
 Professional services company KPMG was hired by the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Petroleum Technology (RGIPT) to prepare a detailed project report for the setting up of IIPE’s permanent campus. Based on KPMG’s report and as per the recommendation of the ministry of petroleum and natural gas, the Union cabinet had approved the IIPE Bill in April 2017 with a capital outlay of Rs 655.46 crore to set up the premier institute and a contribution of Rs 200 crore towards its endowment fund. 
 
 This will be in addition to the contribution of Rs 200 crore from oil companies towards the endowment fund. Out of the above, a total amount of Rs 630.46 crore will be available as capital outlay for setting up the new campus.
 
 IIPE director Prof VSRK Prasad said they were asked by the district administration to take possession of the 202-acre land in Vangali village of Sabbavaram mandal. “We are in discussions with a government agency for construction of the boundary wall. We want to move into the permanent campus of the IIPE by 2020. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited is helping us in the architect selection procedure. We will sign a MoU with the University of Houston in February for academic collaborations, which will be followed by several other MoUs,” informed Prof Prasad.
 
 As per the report prepared by KPMG, the total built-up area is expected to be 7,30,000 square feet. This includes a total of 17 classrooms for undergraduate and postgraduate students, laboratories and academic facilities such as conference hall, auditorium, central library, computer centre, central workshop, mass media communication facility and video conferencing.
 
 
