TRICHY: The delta districts including   witnessed widespread protests in Thursday’s bandh leading to arrest of thousands of farmers along with cadres of opposition parties including DMK, Congress, VCK, CPI and various Tamil outfits as they attempted to block vehicular traffic demanding immediate constitution of the Cauvery Management Board.

 Meanwhile, tension prevailed in Trichy as a group of protesters attempted to burn the   flag and effigy of Prime Minister   in front of the head post office. A section of   cadre locked the main door of the Income Tax office with the staff inside in Thanjavur. Many schools in Trichy declared a holiday to avoid inconvenience to the students. Almost 80 per cent of shops and commercial establishments remained closed across the districts though vegetable and flower shops in Gandhi Market in Trichy remained open. However, a few customers turned up for purchasing. 
 
 Police arrested around 900 protesters headed by former minister and MLA K N Nehru belonging to DMK, Congress, VCK, CPI and various Tamil outfits who blocked vehicular traffic at head post-office roundabout near Central bus stand in Trichy. The entire area came to a standstill due to the protest which lasted more than an hour. Desiya Thenninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam state president P Ayyakannu, Tamizhaga Eri Mattrum Attru Pasana Vivasayigal Sangam headed by its president P Viswanathan and many functionaries from various farmers’ bodies also participated.
 
 Over hundred protesters headed by Lalgudi DMK MLA Soundarapandian blocked Pallavan Superfast express at Lalgudi which forced the train to halt for 15 minutes. A similar protest was also held at Srirangam and Jeeyapuram railway stations as well as in front of passport office also. In Pudukottai, a 65-year-old DMK cadre collapsed and died on the spot while participating in a protest headed by former MLA Udhayam Shanmugam at Avudaiyarkoil near Aranthangi in Pudukottai. He was identified as Samban of   village.
 
 More than 1,000 people were secured by the police as protesters tried to block roads and trains in Nagapattinam district for setting up CMB. A large number of farmers and cadre from opposition parties staged a rail roko in Nagapattinam and blocked the Karaikal-Salem train. A total of 3,500 agitators were held by the police from nine different spots while they resorted to protest attacking the BJP-led Union government for not constituting CMB. The entire district including Thanjavur bus stand, New bus stand, Thiruvaiyaru, Pattukottai, Papanasam, Kumbakonam, Thiruvidaimaruthur, Peravurani, Orathanadu and Vallam witnessed wide-spread agitation. Protesters staged rail roko at nine stations leading to a 30-minute delay of Nagoor, Manamadurai and Mayiladuthurai passenger trains, Ernakulam express and Cholan express. Over 4,000 of the 4,500 shops remained closed.
 
 Opposition parties blocked road and trains at 40 spots leading to the arrest of 2,800 protesters at   district as they staged a protest. DMK 28th ward representative Mohan tried to self-immolate and was admitted to the government hospital in Tiruvarur after other protesters thwarted his bid. In Karur, traders associations said they incurred a loss of Rs 12 crore due to the bandh observed by the opposition parties. Around 12,000 shops, commercial establishments, textile companies and finance companies remained closed across the district.
 
 
