GURUGRAM: The chief administrator of   has suspended two junior   on charge of negligence for listing a private plot for   that was eventually sold to an automobile engineer for Rs 28 lakh last year.

 In a directive issued on March 28, chief administrator J Ganesan ordered junior engineers Naresh Kumar Rana and Virender Chauhan posted at the Huda estate office-I in Gurugram be suspended with immediate effect.
 
 Elaborating on the order, estate officer-I   said the department had issued notice to the two officials responsible for the lapse. 
 
 “The private plot in Sector 23 was listed for e-auction due to negligence on part of the two junior engineers. We have sought an explanation from the officials concerned,” he added.
 
 On May 27 last year, Tarun Verma had bought a piece of land from Huda through e-auction for Rs 28 lakh and subsequently received its nod to mortgage the plot for availing a bank loan of Rs 40 lakh for paying for building his dream home there. He had also got the possession certificate as well as conveyance deed, all within four months. Finally, he had got the approval for his building plan too on September 25, only to be told a week later that he could not start construction on the plot.
 
 For, Huda, after allotting the plot and eventually completing all other formalities, realised that the 55sq-yard plot in Sector 23A it had allotted to Verma did not belong to the development authority. Since then, Verma had been making rounds of the Huda office and paying Rs 31,000 as EMI for the loan he had availed against the original plot.
 
 TOI had highlighted how Huda allotted Verma a piece of land that it did not own and allowed him to mortgage it for a bank loan that has already cost him several EMIs.
 
 To rectify the lapse, the urban development body earlier this week claimed to have identified four plots, each of 55sq yards, one of which will be given to Verma in lieu of the original plot. Huda officials said the identified plots — all in Sector 23 — were free from any kind of litigation or encroachment.
 
 
