It is going to be a culturally-rich Sunday, as Hindustani classical vocalists, tabla, harmonica and harmonium maestros, classical dancers and an artist will share the same platform for a 12-hour culture bonanza.
 The   will begin with an invocation by 75 junior artistes, followed by a performance by Hindustani vocalist Pt Venkatesh Kumar. The rest of the day (the event starts at 9 am and is on till 9 pm) will consist of a Carnatic harmonica ensemble by Hamsnada, vocals by Iman Das, a Kathak duet by Papiya Bhowmik and Sharmistha Saha, vocals by Ivy Banerjee, Bharatanatyam by Snigdha Sinha, a Kathak group dance and Carnatic harmonica by Saitejas Chandrasekhar.
  
  Iman, who was recently recognised as one of the top emerging artistes of the world by WNYR — a New York radio station — for his Sanskrit shloka Maa Meera, is the man behind the festival. A Patiala Gharana classical vocalist, he tells us that the festival, which will be held this Sunday at Indiranagar Sangeetha Sabha, marks one-year of his Omkar   Academy. So, it is only fitting that young students of his academy kick off the festival. “Our aim is to propagate Indian music through all our children. Apart from legendary Indian music proponents, such as Pt Venkatesh Kumar and Samar Saha, there will also be classical dance and music performances; a documentary on Indian classical music will also be screened. What is interesting is that Babun Ghosh will paint live onstage simultaneously with my performance. He will hear my music and paint accordingly. What he paints will be a surprise for us as well, because his artwork will be an abstract representation of the music,” says Iman.
  
  The classical vocalist feels that it is important for different art forms to come together as they boost each other. “It is important to have collaborations. The younger generation’s attention span is very short, so if there is a dance and music performance together on stage, those who like dance have something of their interest, and vice versa,” says Iman.
