JAIPUR: Leader of Opposition   on Tuesday moved breach of Privilege Motion against parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra   and deputy chief whip   for levelling betting charge against him in the   without serving him notice.

 Soon after Question Hour, Dudi sought permission from the Speaker to move Privilege Motion in the Zero Hour which the Speaker   granted. He said, on February 16,   and Madan Rathod levelled allegations that “I had indulged in betting of Rs 3 crore.”
 
 The minister did not serve notice for the same and the allegation was based on newspaper reports and a video which was fabricated, unfounded and untrue, said Dudi.
 
 “Rathore said with Rs 3 crore he had won Rs 30 crore and tomorrow if ED (Enforcement Directorate) conducts raids, he will come accusing the ruling party of targeting the opposition. So it is better to come clean and deposit the amount,” said the opposition leader.
 
 “Deputy chief whip Madan Rathod said, if the opposition leader is indulging in betting it is a serious matter. You should not have done this. How could you use black money for betting and if you have black money deposit it and the matter will be closed.”
 
 The fact is that “I have nothing to do with betting. The said video is part of a press conference held at Nokha on January 30 2018 which was made viral after tampering the video. I have never indulged in betting in my whole life,” claimed Dudi.
 
 Amidst interruption by the ruling party legislators, Dudi reminded the chair that the Speaker himself was reminding the minister that he was speaking without serving notice.
 
 “Despite that both the minister and deputy chief whip continued to make the allegations to tarnish my reputation. They never allowed me to clarify on the matter even ignoring the direction of the chair . So I am moving this breach of privilege motion and the Speaker do the needful.”
 
 The Speaker Kailash Meghwal then ruled that the motion has been referred to the privilege committee of the assembly and the issue is closed. But the ruling party legislators lead by Rajendra Rathore and Madan Rathod started demanding that the matter should be investigated so that the truth will come out. The Speaker said under section 162 the breach of privileges motion rules it is state clear that it is the prerogative of the speaker and there is enough provision for enquiry, investigation etc. and the speaker adjourned the house for an hour to cool the tempers in the House.
 
 
