RAHARA: A small plot and a one-storey house received as donation. That's all   had in 1943 when he took 37 boys, who had been orphaned by the  , under his wings. Undaunted by the goings-on around, he set up a humble residential school and 75 years down the line, it has metamorphosed into a bright spot on the education map in the state. 

 Better known as Rahara Ramakrishna Mission Boys' Home, the school is celebrating its platinum jubilee this year. But the authorities are not resting on laurels. They have set for themselves new - and stiffer - targets to mark the occasion. From installing arsenic-free tube-wells to conducting medical camps in far-flung areas, the Home has its hands full (see box).
 
 
  
 
 "We are already reaching out to the poorest of the poor through schemes like Gadadhar Abhyudaya Prakalpa, Annapurna Prakalpa ad medical camps. We have more projects lined up, which we plan to kick-start from April 1. The projects will be implemented over the next two years," said  , secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Boys' Home. 
 
 The institute has crossed many milestones in the past seven decades, but the journey has never been smooth. It has been running with a huge deficit, mounting over the years on account of escalating prices of essential commodities. It receives 48% of its funds as grant from the government and for the rest, it depends on donations.
 
 RKM Boys' Home is trying to raise Rs 1 crore during its platinum jubilee celebrations. Around Rs 75 lakh from that, according to sources, will be spent on various welfare projects and the remaining will be set aside for the development of the institution. 
 
 "We have managed to raise Rs 25 lakh so far. For the rest, we appeal to everyone to contribute as much as they can," Swami Jayananda said.
 
 The Home will celebrate its platinum jubilee on the Rahara campus between December 25, 2018 and January 1, 2019. "In 2004, prasad was distributed among 80,000 people while celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of Ma Sarada. That record will be broken by a big margin this year," a Home official said.
 
 
