NAGPUR: Ibrahim Khan, externed around four months ago for two years, attacked 18-year-old Shaikh Shafi near   at Mominpura in the wee hours of Thursday.

 Apart from the latest assault, the Mominpura residents are living under fear claiming that goons find it easy to flex muscles at their will as police have been ineffective in the locality. 
 
 This was the second time the police have found Khan in the city after he was shifted to Hinganghat by Tehsil police following the externment order. On an earlier occasion, the cops found him in possession of arms.
 
 In the latest incident, Khan struck Shafi with a thick wooden stick on his head, shoulder and on the side of the chest when the victim was engaged in playing video games on his cell phone. Shafi, who works at a paan kiosk and also with a roadside vendor, fell on his face.
 
 As Shafi was lying motionless, his friends Shahrukh Khan and others fled the spot seeing Khan. Shafi had a lucky escape as Khan did not repeat the attack. An injured Shafi was later shifted to Mayo Hospital where he is fighting for life with critical head injury. Khan was netted by the Tehsil cops, who slapped him with attempt to murder case.
 
 Sources said Shahrukh heard Khan saying that Shafi was the reason behind him getting externed from the city. Sources from the locality said Shafi and Khan had a tiff in the past following which the cops had taken some action which paved the way for the externment order.
 
 A petrified local shopkeeper said Khan frequented the place every day night under the influence of alcohol. “Khan would target, rob or abuse anyone he felt in an inebriated condition. The public had thrashed him too as he was threatening to set the local shops and hand carts on fire,” said the trader. 
 
 A Mominpura resident said there are fights and quarrels in the heart of the market place every day in the late evening. “Frequently, there are goons with arms and weapons clashing with passersby or their rivals at Mominpura chowk. The Mominpura police chowky is closed by 10pm after which the goons go berserk. Anti-social elements consume narcotics and liquor at Bakri Mandi before coming out to fight on the streets,” he said.
 
 
