KOLKATA: The   Film and Television Institute of India (SRFTI) is keen on getting affiliated to Visva Bharati. The director of the institute has written to   so that instead of offering diplomas, the students can be given post graduate degrees. The V-B vice-chancellor Swapan Dutta had written to the ministry asking if the varsity can engage in collaborative work with the media school.

 Said Debamitra Mitra, the director of SRFTI, “Neither FTII nor SRFTI awards degrees to students. I feel it would be a good idea if graduate students who study at SRFTI are awarded degrees and not diplomas for their post-graduation programmes. That’s why I wrote a letter to Visva Bharati requesting affiliation for our institute.”
 
 Early this month, Dutta had told TOI that he was in receipt of this suggestion. “But now we don’t have any institute that is affiliated to us. Many years back, a controversy had broken out regarding affiliation being awarded to an institute running a management course,” Dutta had said.
 
 During the academic session of 1999-2000 and 2000-2001, the university had granted affiliation to 40 institutes. As a result of objections raised by the central government, the university had decided to discontinue its practice of granting affiliations to private educational institutions. The university had cancelled the affiliation on the grounds that most of these institutes do not have the requisite infrastructure and ability to deliver quality education. The controversy had got many talking on the issue. Even the then Prime Minister  , during his visit as chancellor of the university, had reportedly objected to this decision at the convocation ceremony in 2001.
 
 It is there obvious that V-B will tread with cautious before agreeing to give the nod to SRFTI’s request for affiliation. Dutta had the ministry informed and has also stated that V-B is open to the idea of collaborating with SRFTI. “We have many collaborations with other institutes. We have written to both the Ministry of Culture and  . I think both SRFTI and we will benefit if we can collaborate on film studies. We have lots of resources that SRFTI can utilize. They have a studio and our students can utilize that. We hope to get a positive feedback in the new year,” Dutta had said.
 
