 Akanksha Redhu often uploads her   shots on her Insta feed. This is not a ‘break the internet’ move. It just is. Her motive to post the pics is to inspire body confidence. She says, “I’m not a sample size, but I love showing it off just in the hope of normalising it (wearing bikinis, that is).”

 
 
 The sartorial history of the bikini is a loaded one. It started controversially in 1946, with even models refusing to be photographed in it. By 1965, it gained acceptance in the West. In India, it was a glamour trope faithfully deployed by Bollywood to grab eyeballs. But now, a bikini is not a novelty – it’s a lifestyle, a slimspiration and just another swimsuit. 
 
 For public relations professional Mallika Agarwala, who always dons bikinis on all her beach holidays, wearing one is NBD (no big deal) and is also a reason to get fit. Currently prepping for her Bali holiday, a month away, she’s on a strict diet and exercise routine. “It’s not for the photos – it’s all for me.” Getting bikini-ready is a fitness motivator, says fitness expert Namrata Purohit, who has women come to her with wishlists. “With people planning exotic beach holidays, fitness programmes like summer shreds, bikini workouts and diets are common now,” she says. 
 
 Wearing a bikini is about body confidence and not necessarily body sculpting. Namrata Dadwal, a Delhi-based development sector professional, wore her first bikini in Mauritius. “You become body conscious when someone makes you feel less than perfect. Watching women there being comfortable with their bodies made me lose my inhibitions too,” she says.
 
 
 
 Designers   and   of Shivan & Narresh fame have noticed a spike in the sales of their bikini designs. Kukreja says, “Swimwear today stands very high on aspirational value for Indians where increasing number of women are looking to graduate from maillots (one-pieces) and trikinis (cut-out one-pieces) to high-waisted bikinis.” Fitness expert Vesna Pericevic Jacob feels that social media has helped in changing perceptions and break the shock value. “With access to global images, we can reshape what we consider ‘daring’,” she adds. 
 
 Goa-based Supriya Kamat says, “I have worn a bikini a few times mostly with my girlfriends who are all very confident in their bodies. So, when we went to the beach and hung out in bikinis it was fun and liberating.” Nora Ephron wrote in her book I Feel Bad about My Neck: And Other Thoughts on Being a Woman: “Oh, how I regret not having worn a bikini for the entire year I was 26. If anyone young is reading this, go, right this minute, put on a bikini, and don’t take it off until you’re 34.” Or maybe not even then!
 
 With a positive sense of body confidence and boosted egos, the need to be size zero has shifted to being a fitter, best version of one self, leading to rise of bikinis here — Shivan Bathiya, designer
 
 Personally, I feel more at ease wearing a bikini out of India. But ultimately, it’s an inspiration to get comfortable in your own skin, whether slim or not — Akanksha Redhu, lifestyle blogger
 
 Wearing a bikini is about body confidence and not necessarily body sculpting
 
 
