MUMBAI: Central Railway has served notices to public sector undertakings to vacate its premises in the administrative   opposite J J School of Arts at  , so that its   from the   building can be shifted in their place.

 Railway minister Piyush Goyal has announced that the heritage building will be vacated for setting up a world-class   on transportation.
 
 A senior CR official said, “We have already asked railway PSUs to look for space elsewhere, as we will need the vacated offices for our staff.”
 
 Railway PSUs in this building include Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of Indian (DFCCI), Indian Railway Construction Corporation (IRCON) and Container Corporation of India (CONCOR), among others.
 
 The CR official said, “To begin with, offices on the ground and first floor will be vacated and shifted to this building. Thereafter, the second floor, which has the general manager’s office, will move out. The entire project is expected to be done in phases.”
 
 The railway board has given the mandate to Rail India Technical and Engineering Services (RITES) to appoint a consultant to prepare the roadmap for the museum.
 
 Also, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) will also be roped in, to ensure that CSMT is not stripped off its status of a world heritage site station. This the only functional railway station building to have received the Unesco’s world heritage site status in 2004.
 
 Central Railway has proposed to shift its 400 staff in a building that will have to be constructed on a vacant plot of land on P D’Mello Road side of CSMT once the heritage building is vacated to set up a world-class rail museum.
 
 The heritage building has office space of 10,000 square metre. CR will require almost an equivalent area to house the staff. The cost of construction is estimated at Rs 5000 per sq m. It will take at least three years to get the building constructed from the date of appointment of the contractor.
 
 CR said it has 9.6 acres at Carnac Bunder off P D’Mello Road. This land was earlier earmarked to build a five-storey luxury hotel and a 21-storey tower for shopping complexes and offices as part of the CST revamp project, which has got shelved due to heritage rule-related hurdles.
 
 
