BENGALURU: With the alternative road to   (KIA) in Devanahalli finally expected to be ready by February-end, air passengers are worried about the traffic chaos they could experience on entering the premises. 

 The alternative road is set to intersect the stretch now being used for airport entry and exit. This has raised concerns of possible traffic pile-ups at the junction. However, both the government and   (BIAL) have told flyers not to worry as they will redesign the said junction to prevent traffic congestion. 
 
 SB Siddagangappa, secretary, Public Works Department (PWD), which is executing the alternative road project, said, “Since the area comes under BIAL, the airport management’s say is of crucial importance. However, air passengers needn’t worry. We already have a plan to manage traffic by redesigning the junction and installing signals. We are in talks with experts, traffic cops and the KIA management.”
 
 A senior BIAL executive said they are not anticipating much trouble as traffic coming from   will reduce once the alternative road is in place. “We are in consultation with experts on traffic management,” he added.
 
 Commuters and experts suggest building of grade separators (flyover/underpass) to resolve the issue. Siddagangappa, however, said as of now they have no provision for any flyover at the junction.
 
 As part of the ongoing project, two major stretches — Thanisandra Main Road and Hennur Main Road — meet at the Bagalur area, from where a two-lane road will take commuters to Bandikodigenahalli and Begur before reaching the airport area. BIAL is making arrangements to provide the last-mile road connectivity (about 1km) from Begur.
 
 Vasu Reddy, a resident of   and businessman, said he visits KIA at least 4 to 5 times in a month. “Travelling through the city and Hebbal flyover, it takes me 2 to 3 hours to reach the airport. In the past two years, the travel time has only been increasing due to more traffic. Frequent flyers like me desperately need the alternative road to be completed. Issues like probable traffic chaos on the airport premises are minor and should be sorted out soon,” he added.
 
 
  
  
 
 
