
 @timesgroup.com
 
 KOLKATA:   Superspecialty Hospital’s move to impose a charge on medical representatives ( ) for meeting doctors has proved to be a non-starter. Even though two weeks have passed since the EM Bypass hospital barred MRs on its premises and formed a sevenmember committee to lay down the modalities of MRdoctor interactions, the panel is yet to meet. Doctors, on the other hand, have refused to follow the hospital diktat and continue to meet MRs outside the hospital premises.
 
 
 Medica chairperson   said, “Since several members of the committee are travelling, it has not been able to meet yet. We shall decide a date soon.”
 
 West Bengal Medical and Sales Representatives’ Union (WBMSRU), the body that represents MRs in the state, has refused to pay for doctor meetings.
 
 More than half the doctors have met MRs over the last fortnight, claimed a senior medic at Medica. “Meeting MRs is a part of our job. They are our window to the pharmaceutical industry, without which we can’t work. All interactions with MRs can’t be termed unethical or unfair. They provide useful information apart from marketing their drugs. They, too, have the right to sell their products and hospitals benefit from their visits,” the senior medic said.
 
 At least two doctors are planning to set up a separate venue to meet MRs. Several others are meeting them at their private chambers or at other hospitals to which they are attached. “Not more than one-fourth of the total strength of doctors is employed full-time. So, they cannot be forced to follow the ban. Even the full-time employees have the option of using their private chambers to meet MR and most are doing just that,” a doctor said.
 
 One of the two doctors planning to set up a dedicated venue for MR meetings is a Medica employee. “I am not following the order as it is restrictive. This will set a precedent that will eventually be bad for patients. If MRs are asked to pay to meet doctors, pharmaceutical companies will have to bear this additional cost. Now, this is definitely going to be added to the price of medicines which will turn more expensive,” he said.
 
  cardiac surgeon at Medica said the decision to charge MRs was ‘unjustified and hasty’. “Doctors have the right to meet MRs at an appointed time for the sake of their profession. If they are barred from doing that at the hospital, they will obviously meet MRs elsewhere. I guess that is already happening, which makes the move redundant. However, I have hardly had any interaction with MRs. I probably meet around five of them in a year,” he said.
 
