PUNE: An early morning walk of three cousins turned tragic on Thursday when one among them — barely nine-year-old and a Standard III student — was run over by a speeding private minibus.

 The boy was crossing the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor on the overbridge at Nashik Phata in Kasarwadi when the accident occurred. The Bhosari police have launched a hunt for the minibus  .
 
 Sub-inspector N A Davare said the accident occurred around 6.30am when Pratik Parameshwar Sawant of Anandnagar in Pimple-Gurav was out on a morning walk with his cousins. “Pratik’s cousin, Suraj Chandanshive (22), has given us an incomplete registration number of the minibus. We have questioned some drivers on Friday. Our probe is on,” he said.
 
 Chandanshive, a witness to the accident, told TOI that he, Pratik and their cousin, Amol Sawant, had gone towards Kasarwadi on Thursday morning. “Around 6.30am, three of us were on the overbridge at Nashik Phata,” he said.
 
 The trio were walking on the platform of the BRTS corridor on the bridge. “Pratik was following us. I saw a white minibus coming towards us at a high speed. Around the same time, Pratik entered the BRTS route for crossing,” Chandanshive said.
 
 He alerted Pratik about the bus and told the latter not to cross the road. “But Pratik did not listen to me. As the minibus was approaching in speed, I tried to alert its driver so that he could slow down and stop,” Chandanshive said.
 
 The bus driver, too, ignored Chandanshive. Before Pratik could cross the road, the speeding bus hit him. “Pratik flung into the air and fell on the middle of the road. His head was crushed under the wheels of the minibus,” he said.
 
 Chandanshive said he ran towards Pratik to see what had happened to him. “Pratik was motionless. I took him to a hospital, where he was declared dead by doctors.”
 
 
 
 Suraj Chandanshive said Pratik’s examinations were over on Wednesday. He had decided to go to his village on Saturday. His grandmother would have come to Pune on Friday to pick him up.
 
 He said that Pratik’s parents were physically challenged. “His father runs the family by selling SIM cards along the road,” Chandanshive said.
 
 
