AHMEDABAD: While the custodial interrogation period of Dilip Kanani and Nikunj Bhatt ends on Friday, CID crime is moving to seize a property worth Rs 23 crore in the Varachha area of Surat.

 Kanani and Raju Desai are suspected to have bought the property after redeeming the Bitoins extorted through the kidnapping Dhaval Mavani on February 1, 2018.
 
 On Sunday night, CID crime booked Surat businessman Shailesh Bhatt and nine others for the kidnappings of Dhaval Mavani and Piyush Savaliya, respectively the administrator and an office boy at Bit Connect, a Bitcoin investment company.
 
 “Bhatt and nine co-accused allegedly extorted 2,250  , 11,000 Litecoins and Rs 14 crore in cash — worth Rs 155.21 crore in all — from Mavani.
 
 Bhatt was later allegedly kidnapped by his partner Kirit Paladiya and inspector Anant Patel of LCB Amreli. Amreli SP   and   ex-MLA Nalin Kotadiya have also been named as conspirators in Bhatt’s kidnapping. Jagdish Patel has been arrested while Kotadiya is on the run,” said a CID official.
 
 CID sources said Dilip Kanani and Raju Desai, a co-accused in the Dhaval Mavani kidnapping case, struck a deal worth Rs 23 crore for a property in the Varachha area of Surat, in December 2017. They paid the owner Rs 1.50 crore at the time. “After the kidnapping of Dhaval Mavani, in the first week of March, Kanani and Desai paid the owner of the property Rs 9.77 crore. Kanani had redeemed Bitcoins to raise the money for the payment. We suspect the money was paid from the proceeds of the crime and have started gathering details of the property deal, to seize the money,” added a CID crime official.
 
 Bhatt flees state with family
 
 CID sources said that after the kidnapping of Dhaval Mavani on February 1, Bhatt left Surat and spent most of his time in  . “Two days after the kidnapping, Bhatt came back, pulled his two children out of school and left Surat with his family. We believe Bhatt on the move with his family to evade arrest,” said a CID crime official.
 
 All accused fond of luxury cars
 
 The persons accused in the Dhaval Mavani and Piyush Savaliya kidnappings own fleets of luxury cars. “Kanani has two high-end, automatic luxury cars. Jignesh Movadia, who is yet to be arrested, own three luxury cars. Kirit Wala, another accused in the case, owns one luxury car. Shailesh Bhatt is fond of high-end SUVs and owns more than two. One such car has been seized from his nephew, Nikunj Bhatt,” a CID crime official said.
 
 Vadodara cops probing land dispute case involving Shailesh Bhatt
 
 SP Vadodara (rural),  , said an FIR regarding a property dispute was lodged against Shailesh Bhatt at Karjan two months ago. “The high court stayed action on the FIR, but the investigation is under way. Once the stay is vacated, we will act against the accused,” said Tolambiya.
 
 
