CHANDIGARH: In a time when Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has been passing through its worst ever financial crisis, around half a dozen prominent commercial properties of the civic body, with a worth of over Rs 20 crores, are finding no takers. Significantly, the estate branch of the   tried multiple efforts to auction these commercial properties and even reserve price of few of the properties were reduced, but all these efforts have gone in vain as the authority has received a cold response. The last general house recently reduced the reserve prices of some   to hold fresh auction.

 In a first of its kind, state of the art air-conditioned fish market in Sector 41, 40 booths in Sector 17, food street in Sector 48, 109 booths in  , booths of Sector 39, booths of underpass of Sector 17/22 have been vacant and have posed as a major challenge for the MC, which is looking forward to either auction or rent them out to earn revenues.
 
 High reserve prices of the properties, leasehold nature of such properties and slump in the real estate market are being held as the key reasons behind the cold response from public in terms of showing interest in such properties. Since the collector rate of all the nature of properties of the city is higher than the neighbouring states, rates of these commercial properties have been set accordingly.
 
 The 40 booths of Sector 17, 105 booths of   and the fish market in Sector 41 are the projects, which have failed to attract any takers despite being constructed five to 10 years ago. The project of construction of 40 booths of Sector 17 had come up in 2013 at the cost of around Rs 16 crores, while the fish market was constructed with Rs 1 crores in 2008. The 112 booths of Mauli Jagran were constructed in the 2011 at the cost of around Rs 4 crores. Moreover, out of six shops, four of Day Food Street in Sector 48 are also lying vacant since their construction in 2014.
 
 “The reserve prices of the properties are too high to auction and the major problem is the leasehold nature of such properties. Nobody will take the these properties in such a high rate on leasehold basis,” said  , municiapl councillor of Sector 17.
 
 Box: Will try to hold auctions again 
 
 When asked, additional municipal commissioner ( )  , who heads the estate branch of the MC, he said, “We decreased the reserve price of the properties, but even after that people did not come forward to take the properties. Infact we wrote to the UT administration to turn these properties from leasehold to freehold, but they turned down our request. We are again going to hold the auction with the hope of it being successful this time.”
 
 
