AHMEDABAD/RAJKOT/VADODARA: Acknowledging the  ,   (MSMEs) as growth drivers and employment generators,   laid a major thrust of these units in the Budget 2018-19. 

 Industry bodies have welcomed extending the reduced corporate tax of 25% for MSMEs having a turnover up to Rs 250 crore and said that this would create more jobs and generate more income. 
 
 Jaitley also allocated Rs 3,794 crore for credit support, capital and interest subsidy for the MSMEs.
 
 “Working capital is a major issue for MSMEs, which were adversely impacted by the cascading effect of demonetization and implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST). Credit support, capital and interest subsidy will enable greater financing at a lower interest to MSMEs. This will ease cashflow issues to a great extent,” said Shailesh Patwari, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industries (GCCI).
 
 Industry associations also hailed a cut in corporate tax. “More than 50% MSMEs in Saurashtra will be covered under the reduced slab. It is a major step and industrial sectors in Saurashtra including machine tools, plastic and auto parts engineering, among others will be benefited,” Jaman Bhalan, president, Metoda GIDC, an industrial estate near Rajkot.
 
 There are some 65,000 MSME units in Saurashtra dealing in auto parts, agriculture machinery, diesel engines, submersible pump, machine tools, brass parts, pharmaceuticals, textile, engineering, ceramics and sanitary ware, among others.
 
 Similarly, even the central Gujarat region is also home to several engineering and pharmaceutical MSMEs. Federation of Gujarat Industries (FGI) president, Nitin Mankad, said, “The government has taken a positive step for the growth of MSMEs. If the government works further for ease of doing business, it will boost industrial growth.”
 
 “The budget has made provisions to revamp online loan sanctioning facility for MSMEs to prompt decision making by the banks. In addition, tax relief to MSMEs with a 5% reduction in corporate tax is commendable and likely to push private capex,” said Rajiv Vastupal, chairman, FICCI. 
 
 
