GURUGRAM: Karni Sena’s general secretary   resigned as a BJP member on Wednesday. A day after he was released on bail by Gurugram police, Amu sent his resignation to Haryana BJP chief Subhash Barala during his visit to   to pay tribute to  , whose legend inspired the film Padmaavat. 

 Amu (51) sent his resignation around 5pm on Wednesday. He sent a text to Barala, saying, “I, Suraj Pal Amu, with a heavy heart, resign from my primary membership in the party. I hope you will accept it with immediate effect. Thanks, Yours, Suraj Pal Amu.” He had earlier resigned from the post of chief media coordinator of the state unit of BJP. The party had already initiated disciplinary action against Amu. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Amu said, “I am concerned the BJP does not value its party workers. I am a Rajput and cannot compromise on my self-respect in this manner.” He also thanked those who supported Karni Sena and other Rajput outfits in protests against Padmaavat. Police had put Amu under preventive detention on January 25 for inciting violent protests in Gurugram against the controversial film. 
 
 “In jail, I met other young men who were detained for protesting against the film. I immediately decided that the first thing I will do after my release is pray at mother Padmini’s feet. I feel blessed now,” he said. On January 25, a mob seeking to protect the honour of the queen had attacked buses carrying schoolchildren in Gurugram. Speaking about his resignation, Amu hinted some BJP leaders felt threatened by him. He said, “My friends who are at high posts in BJP are worried about my stature, so I have relieved them of the burden. But they are still my friends.” 
 
 BJP state spokesperson Raman Malik said, “It is his individual decision and the party president will look into it. I cannot comment on his assessment of party leaders but he should name those who allegedly plotted against him. Since he is always claiming that he is dedicated to the RSS and BJP, he would be doing a good service by naming those people, so that no other karyakarta suffers like him.”
 
 
