MYSURU: It is common to witness prices of flowers skyrocketing ahead of festivals. However, people of Mysuru can heave a sigh of relief as farmers have decided to directly sell Chrysanthemum (Sevantige) flowers grown by them in the open market.

 To put an end to exploitation at the hands of middlemen and to benefit the consumer, 30 Chrysanthemum farmers from Mudigere village near KR pet taluk of Mandya district have been coming to the city to directly sell flowers grown by them ahead of festive seasons.
 
 The flowers are strung together into garlands by the women of the house and then bundled and brought to Mysuru by the farmers.
 
 The novel idea is a double whammy as it is not only putting an end to exploitation, but is also benefitting consumers, said M C Prakash, 35, a farmer from Mudigere. He told TOI, “When we take our produce to the market, it is auctioned and the prices are set by someone who knows nothing about a farmer’s toil. Middlemen fleece us and we have to accept the prices set during the auction. To avoid this, we started to make garlands and directly sell it in the open market at a much lesser price than the price set by market forces.”
 
 “A mola (half arms length) of Chrysanthemum in the market costs Rs 100 while we are selling it at Rs 70 which will benefit both the farmer and the consumer,” he added
 
 Confident of farmers making profits by directly selling the flowers themselves,   from KR pet said, “About 30 of us sell garlands near Dhanvantri Road, Nanjarajabahadur Choultry and Nanjumalige during Gowri Ganesha festival,  , Mahanavami, Ayudha Puja, Deepavali and Sankranti. We have been selling anywhere between 500-1000 molas of chrysanthemum as our prices are much lesser than the market price. Women from our homes make the garlands and we come to Mysuru by 9am and wind up by 10pm and return home.”
 
 At the end of the day, the farmer is happy making money and the consumer is happy for having saved his money. It is a win-win situation for all, said Prakash.
 
 
