In a world turning topsy-turvy, going crazier every day, chance human meetings occurring on the spur of the moment in one single afternoon stretching into an evening, are just another typical Calcutta thing that tells you everything is quite all right for the moment, thank you. It began at the long-unused, 18th century, British-era cemetery on Park Street, formerly Burying Grounds Road, before a long-disappeared deer park gave us the only name we use, although it officially has the name of our city’s patron saint, Teresa. The South   Cemetery hosted a recital of baroque music on a mildly sunny January afternoon in a clearing among the tombs, sepulchres, catafalques, and graves. This again was so typically a Calcutta thing it could well have been a scene in a work of remarkable fiction. The Christian Burial Board’s idea of music in that setting was quite a weird and fun event worth repeating, perhaps with a jazz trio, a blues ensemble, a choir. Unfortunately, the performance of the music that day was not the highlight. After about the first 15 minutes of Bach and Vivaldi played without zest and feeling, and quite evidently no committed rehearsal, most of the audience abandoned the musicians to wander around the dead and their extravagant memorials.

 I recalled my observation of the third space in Calcutta in last week’s column. This was not a Christian occasion to commemorate the dearly departed. It was music rarely heard performed in this city, and a physical space clearly open in its invitation for people to visit. And like citizens here do, they visited. Away from the first space of the domestic and the second space of civic engagement, places of study or work, a defunct cemetery on Park Street becomes the third space of Calcutta. The ambience was convivial, completely unaffected by the long-turnedto-fertile-bone-meal mortal remains of ordinary colonials and their grandiose memorials, the numerous trees and shrubs offering a refreshing respite from the smoke and dust laden atmosphere a bare few feet away. Idle notice of there being no visible crosses or weeping angel statuary led to animated discussion among strangers. Another enthusiastically trawled the grounds seeking number 344 where Charles Dickens’ second son, Walter Landor, was buried. The chance sighting of “Hindoo” Stewart’s tomb architecturally rendered as an Odishan temple was intriguing.
 
 Being on Park Street instinctively leads one to that other Park Street, that other third space where the bright lights, bars, food, and music are. On the walk to that end of the Street, a journalist friend I bumped into at the cemetery said she needed inputs for a story she was writing on Anglo-Indian food. The scope of her story was widening way beyond what she had imagined and she
 
 needed perspective. Passing the old auctioneers and their picture-window display begging my curiosity, I impulsively took her in. I introduced her to the present owner of the place, a member of the community, and she got more inputs and contacts, giving focus to her story. All through a random encounter in the city’s third space.
 
 Ensconced on a couch in that favourite watering hole sipping Indian whiskyflavoured rum, ruing the passing of good old days and how things were back then, another third space encounter took place. A couple of gents sitting behind us introduced themselves — a filmmaker and a corporate honcho of a famous multinational. With their origins in Kerala, they are both native sons of Calcutta, born and raised and working in this city. Having Malayali friends, many of whom are no longer here, I am aware of this community's deep links with us. After all, a gentleman from Kerala, P Thankappan Nair who made our city his home, gave Calcutta an incisive understanding of its streets and history. What I learned was that there is a Jacobite Syrian Church, different to the Mar Thoma Church which people I know were members of. Both these churches are not connected to either the Protestants or the Roman Catholics. They are part of what is known as the Eastern Church based in the Middle East and claim an ancient, exclusive, historical link with   who first brought the word of Christ to Kerala, and thereby India. Third spaces of Calcutta are always live-andlearn experiences.
 
 Musicians who performed in the ’70s and ’80s in rock, or progressive rock as it was known, were fascinated by baroque music. The 17th-18th century baroque period in Western music preceded, but is now included, in what we know as Western classical music today. The music was inspired by the dance music of the time but was really not meant for dancing. Similarly, progressive rock musicians played music which was energetic and melodic but difficult to dance to. Their faux-classical compositions had influences of rock, blues and jazz too with heavy doses of still-developing electronic musical instruments. This sort of progressive rock music was a very British thing and to some extent popular with Europeans, also called Kraut Rock.
 
 The trio of Emerson, Lake and Palmer first spring to mind. But the significant others were King Crimson, Nice, Moody Blues, Yes,  , Jethro Tull, Colosseum, Soft Machine, Strawbs, Electric Light Orchestra, Tangerine Dream, and so many others. While lyrical and quite beautiful at times, most of this music, in my opinion, was pretentious and undeservingly elaborate. However, elements of progressive rock soon made its way into pop music and is still used as a basic form for many of the present-day artists. Funnily enough, baroque music of the 17th and 18th centuries and progressive rock of the 20th century are both typecast as art music.
 
 — PATRICK SL GHOSE
 
