NAGPUR: Change is constant and therefore youngsters should work selflessly, and with passion, so that they could see India of their dreams usher in a new era where sky is the limit, said  , MP and chairman of  , on Wednesday.

 Sharing his views with students at ‘Subhash Chandra show’ organized by GH Raisoni College of Engineering, CRPF gate, that was beamed live, he dwelt at length on the issues like employment crisis, rise in cases of rape and self-development, among others. 
 
 In the interactive session ‘Young minds and their vision of new India’, Chandra said the situation is grim as nearly 13 crore youths have no employment, but the things can change for better if they become self-reliant by searching for newer opportunities instead of jumping into the rat race of seeking jobs which are rare to come by. 
 
 “One has to be practical in life to give shape to their ideas, let them grow and then move in the fast lane to achieve goals,” Chandra said. How long one should look at the government for jobs is the question youths should ask themselves. They could be doing a yeoman service if they became self-dependent as there are vast opportunities waiting to be tapped, he added.
 
 Commenting on the seething anger among people over increasing number of sexual harassment and rape cases, Chandra said that women should get themselves ready to face such situations on their own even as the police machinery and judiciary are always there to help them out of this social morass and give justice. 
 
 In her address, former flight lieutenant Shivalee Deshpande exhorted the youths to take military training so that they could tackle any situation. For this, they have to first put a foot forward as this is a potent way of defending self. Deshpande was felicitated for imparting military training to over 50,000 children.
 
 Ram Ingole, founder of Vimlashram Gharkul, who has given children of sex workers a home, was felicitated for his extraordinary contribution to society. In his speech, Ingole said, “I am investing in these kids, and working for their betterment is the sole purpose of my life.”
 
 
