PUNE: Praveen Sanyal and his wife, who landed at the Pune airport from Delhi, had a harrowing time hiring a cab to   on Tuesday afternoon.

 With luggage in their hands, they ran from one cab driver to another, but to no avail. After wasting over 30 minutes, they eventually managed to hire two autorickshaws from prepaid booth, which already had a long queue of people waiting for their turn.
 
 Narrating his ordeal, Sanyal told TOI, “Soon after landing at the airport, I went to the   counter to find it closed. I then approached the   and Uber drivers, who were willing to ferry us, but warned us of risks involved. They told us that there could be protests due to the ongoing strike by Ola and Uber drivers and we will be on our own if there is any problem.” 
 
 And Sanyal couple were not alone, many people suffered a great deal mainly at the airport and Pune railway station as the strike of cab aggregators’ drivers, which was supposed to be a one-day affair, turned into an indefinite one on Tuesday. In many cases, people commuting to their workplaces via cabs were stopped and asked to travel by other means by protesters.
 
 “There is not much we can do,” Deepak, a driver-partner of Uber, said. “There have been protests since afternoon in places like Hinjewadi, Wakad and MG Road, among others. We cannot risk getting our cabs damaged as we aren’t earning much. We are ready to ferry passengers, but we have told them that in case of protests on the streets, they will have to leave the cab immediately,” he added.
 
 A representative of the pre-paid autorickshaw booth at the airport said the ongoing protest has meant good business for him. “In two hours, I have done as many as 80 bookings. This has been the best in a long time,” he said.
 
 A media professional, who was heading to FC Road in an Uber cab, was stopped by protesters near the Iskcon temple. “They stopped the car and told me to leave the cab. However, they did not misbehave,” she said.
 
 Nimish Patwardhan, who works at the  , said he had to shell out Rs 50 over and above the autorickshaw fare to reach his office. “We have been left at the mercy of autorickshaw drivers for now,” he added.
 
 At the Pune railway station, while some cabs of Ola could be seen, the representative at the counter refused bookings for cabs. “I can book an Ola autorickshaw for you if you want, but cabs are out of question considering the strike and the protests happening in the city,” he said.
 
 A spokesperson of Uber accepted problems posed by a group of protesters. “Over the last 24 hours, a large number of our driver partners in Mumbai and Pune have reached out to us after they were forcefully told to go offline by a small group of protesters. Protests like these inconvenience riders and impact our ability to serve the city. Certain myths being propagated by protesting groups are untrue,” he said.
 
 An Ola spokesperson said, “Interest of our driver-partners and customer convenience is of paramount importance to us. It is imperative that intimidation of driver-partners and vandalism of their cars by vested interests be stopped.”
 
 
