AHMEDABAD: Murli Mohan Raju, 50, could not hold back his tears when he met his 24-year-old son Ravi at the   on Thursday. Back in June last year, Murli Raju had come to drop Ravi — an MTech topper from Cuddapah town in   — at the Isro’s   (SAC) campus, where he joined as an apprentice.

  
  Four days ago, Ravi left the SAC campus without informing anyone. Police claim they found him in a delusional state near Ellisbridge and he did not reply when a police patrol team asked him to identify himself. Ravi only stared blankly at them. 
 
 “Ravi seemed disturbed and reluctant to talk. He used to speak to us in broken Hindi “Hume Ghar Jana” (I want to go home). He refused food and stood at one place with folded hands for hours,” said a senior police official of Ellisbridge police station. 
 
 A police official said, “At first, Ravi did not take food. He used to stand at one place from 8am in the morning till evening. On Wednesday, we served Ravi coconut water and biscuits and the following day we took him to nearby Udupi Restaurant in Paldi.”
 
 Till a few days ago, Ravi used to phone his family every alternate day. Ravi last spoke to his father on December 31. 
 
 “Ravi’s father thought that his son must be busy with assignments at SAC and may not have been able to call him,” said a police official. 
 
 It is yet not clear why Ravi left the Isro campus without informing his seniors. Ravi’s father Murli told police that his son was a topper in Gayatri College and had joined ISRO on June 19 last year. They are residents of MJ Kunta area in Cuddapah town.
 
 Police claim they found an Aadhar card in Ravi’s pockets. “We immediately contacted SP Cuddapah and informed him about Ravi. The local police informed his father Murli Mohan Raju, who was unaware that his son had gone missing,” said a police source. Murli, works with a government hospital and his uncle Shrikant Raju was a manager in a private company. Both rushed to Ahmedabad on Thursday afternoon.
 
 A police official said Ravi was brilliant in studies and used to study for 22 hours straight. “It was sheer hard work that brought him to Isro,” he said. A police official who was instrumental in tracking Ravi’s address said it was very heartening to see Ravi reunite with his family. “They have left for their native place,” he said.
 
 
