Nagpur: After illegal construction of resorts in eco-sensitive zone (ESZ), rampant mining close to Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary is turning out to be another threat to wildlife and tigers in particular.

 There are four   operating on 8-10 hectares near Kopamandvi beat adjoining Tipeshwar since 1988. These quarries in Patanbori are within 500 metres of the sanctuary boundary near Yedlapur side causing environment degradation, besides being threat to tigers, who have rediscovered Tipeshwar as their new home. As per the latest figures, there are nine tigers in the sanctuary.
 
 This means quarries came after the Environment Protection Act (EPA) 1986 came into force. The EPA strictly prohibits mining and quarrying within 1km of the park boundary. All these quarries fall in Tipeshwar ESZ.
 
 A draft notification of ESZ of Tipeshwar was issued on January 7, 2016. It has been re-issued on January 17, 2018. The new draft notification puts ESZ between 150 metres and 11km from the boundary of the sanctuary.
 
 Anil Bhaganagarkar from Patanbori, who is leading the group of quarry owners, says, “We have raised objections to the latest ESZ notification. We want our mines be put out of ESZ. On south side they curtailed it to 150 metres so why is it 1,000 metres on east side where we are operating for long. Our quarries are 700 metres from the boundary.”
 
 According to Pandharkawda deputy conservator (DyCF) KM Abharna, “Even if the notification is a draft, as per apex court directions, it is assumed to be 10km from the boundary of the park till issuance of final notification. This should have been known to the operators when first draft was issued in 2016. Such proposals should also go before the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL).”
 
 Yavatmal honorary wildlife warden Ramzan Virani, who lodged a complaint against mining recently, says, “EPA clearly states quarrying and mining activity for commercial and industrial purposes shall be banned in the ESZ and no fresh mining lease shall be granted. These mines are posing threat to Tipeshwar’s flora and fauna and tiger corridor to Kawal reserve.”
 
 Pandharkawda sub-divisional officer (SDO) Buveneswari S said, “Leases of all the mines in Patanbori have lapsed and we have not renewed them after objections from the forest department. As of now they are operating illegally.”
 
 But Bhaganagarkar says, “Leases of two mines are pending for renewal for past two months while two quarries owned by the Patels have lease up to 2020. Six months ago we moved the high court against revenue and forest department refusal to permit mines.”
 
 Despite law being in place and the matter being sub-judice, mine owners conduct blasting to extract gravel. The mines also operate during night illegally. On Wednesday at 10.30pm, when DyCF Abharna received information that Bhaganagarkar’s quarry in Patanbori was in operation, a team of foresters raided the premises at 11pm. By that time, information somehow leaked and mining was stopped.
 
 “We recorded statements of labourers and tipper drivers who admitted the mine was started for trial. We saw truck loaded with material,” said Abharna.
 
 Bhaganagarkar said case against his men was fabricated. “Our mine is closed since two months. Our labourers and staff will always be there to protect the machinery,” he adds. 
 
 
