HYDERABAD: Plastic pollution is a huge global threat that will result in a catastrophe if we do not change now, said Erik Solheim, chief of the UN Environment Programme ( ), speaking exclusively to TOI, on Friday.

 In the city ahead of World Environment Day—which India is hosting this year — Solheim said out how several studies conducted across the globe have already detected elements of   in most samples drinking water.
 
 “If we don’t change, some scientists say that we will have the same rate of plastics as the rate of fish in global oceans by 2050. We can see the effects of this today—an elephant died in Kerala, a whale died in Norway, another whale died in Spain, we have sea birds, turtles, cows and camels all animals full of plastics—this is also dangerous to human beings, as a study conducted shows that all drinking water in the world now has elements of plastic,” said Solheim.
 
 Speaking about the role of UNEP in the fight against plastic pollution, Solheim pointed out how the organisation is trying to inspire people to act through its ‘Clean Seas campaign’. “We are inspiring people clean up beaches like we have seen in Maharashtra and many other parts of India, drop straws and other unnecessary plastic products. We are also linking up with governments.”
 
 After attending a number of events in Hyderabad, Solheim will now head to Vijayawada and visit Amaravati.
 
 On June 4, Solheim will join Harsh Vardhan, minister of environment, forest and climate change in New Delhi for a conference on the environmental challenges India and the world are facing, and also discuss this year’s World Environment Day theme — plastic pollution.
 
 “India is incredibly important in the global fight against plastic pollution. India will become one of the most populous states on the planet after next year or the year after. It is the fastest growing nation in the world meaning that many more people will be able to buy plastic products. There is substantial   in India. Chief ministers, environment ministers and governments all over India will come together in Delhi and we will discuss what more can be done in all the states,” said Solheim. He added: “I proposed that we ask India to host the World Environment Day as we see very positive developments in India’s environment policies.”
 
 Sharing measures that individuals themselves can take to beat plastic pollution Solheim said: ““The issue of plastic pollution is very close to the people and individuals can do a lot to beat it. Individuals can stop buying or using all the plastic products we do not need— straws, plastic bags for when we shop, plastic cutlery and plastic cups. There are a huge number of plastic products that we don’t really need and which we can easily replace with something else. Individuals can also help in recycling by storing plastic in special containers so that it can be recycled. They can also clean river beds--there are many banks that need clean-up.”
 
