BIJNOR: UP chief minister   on Thursday slammed the opposition alliance for stalling development in the state. Addressing a rally at   in the poll-bound Noorpur constituency in Bijnor,   said, “The parties that ruled UP before us completely destroyed the law and order situation along with the state’s economy. Things started to improve after   came to power. Due to our strict policies, criminals have given up illegal activities and can be seen selling vegetables on thelas.” 
 
  In a bid to connect with the youth, the CM said that his government will create more employment opportunities for them. “Our government is going to recruit 1.62 lakh police constables and 1.37 lakh teachers. Besides, the honorarium given to contractual teachers and anaganwadi workers will be increased,” he said.
  
  Reaching out to the large population of sugarcane farmers in the district, Yogi said, “We will ensure that the mills do not shut down and crush the entire crop of sugarcane. Framers have received the highest amount for their crop under BJP’s rule. We were practically penniless when we started, but even then we implemented the loan waiver scheme for farmers.”
  
  On the issue of Ganga cleaning, the CM said that both the Centre and state governments have been working towards this target. “The Centre along with UP government has been making efforts to save the river and ensure that it is clean. We have been laying stress on toilet construction and use in villages located on the banks of Ganga,” he said.
  
  The CM also patted his government’s back for carrying out all round development in the state. “All sections of society are benefitting from our schemes. We do not believe in differentiating on the basis of caste and religion,” Yogi said.
  
  Making an emotional appeal to the local voters, he urged them to vote for BJP candidate Avani Singh, wife of late BJP MLA  . “All those people who are against development have come together to stop Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP from coming to power. They will not succeed in their ambitions,” Yogi said.
