PUNE: A five-year-old boy was mauled to death by a pack of stray   at Mohite Vasti in Maan village near   on Sunday morning.

 Maan primary health centre medical officer Balaji Lakade said the lower portion of 
  body bore several deep dog-bite marks. After primary treatment at the health centre, Sahil was shifted to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) in Pimpri, where he succumbed to his injuries.
 
 Sahil lived with his parents and younger sister in a rented room near a farm land at Mohite Vasti.
 
 
 
 
 The boy’s father,  , works as a labourer. The family had shifted to the new room barely 10 days ago,” said Satyabhama Mohite, the family’s former landlord.
 
 Kastura Waghchoure, Ansari’s neighbour, said she shooed away five dogs after hearing Sahil screaming for help. She told 
  that the incident occurred around 6.15am. “I was on my way to the fields when I heard a child screaming for help from a nearby farm. When I went near the field, I saw Sahil being attacked by a pack of about five stray dogs. I chased the dogs away. Sahil lay there bleeding profusely,” she said.
 
 Waghchoure’s husband ran to the farm and alerted Sahil’s mother too. Bhutto, who had gone out for some work, also came there. “Sahil’s mother picked up the boy and ran to their room. He was bleeding so badly that her clothes got soaked in blood,” Waghchoure said.
 
 Bhutto was going to the unit where he works around 6am when Sahil ran behind him. “He brought Sahil back to the room and told him to stay indoors. Sahil’s mother and sister were asleep then,” she added.
 
 Ranjana Nalawade, a nurse from the primary health centre who first treated Sahil, said, “ It was not possible to treat him at our centre. I contacted 108 as both our ambulances had gone out to drop patients.” Nalawade also contacted Lakade for treatment guidelines. “I treated administered the boy a rabies vaccine.”
 
 An 108 ambulance reached the centre within half-an-hour and took Sahil to YCMH. He, however, succumbed to his injuries there.
 
