CHANDIGARH: The newly sworn-in   ministers will be kept on a tight leash with the   leadership reviewing their performance after six months. Meanwhile, one big change in portfolio – taking away school education from Aruna Chaudhary for chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s loyalist OP Soni - was done on the request of the minister.

 Congress in-charge of Punjab affairs Asha Kumari confirmed that while approving the list of new ministers, party president Rahul Gandhi had told the state leadership that the performance of the ministers should be reviewed after six months and non-performers could face the music.
 
 Asked about the change in school education portfolio, she said it was done following a request from Chaudhary, who earlier held the charge as minister of state and has now been elevated and compensated with the transport department. School education has gone to five-time   frp Amritsar (Central) Soni, who was sworn in on Saturday. Besides, Chaudhary has also been given social security and woman and child development, two portfolios earlier held by her fellow lady minister in the cabinet, Razia Sultana.
 
 Where there has been resentment among a section of party leaders who were either expecting a cabinet berth on the basis of their seniority or from the Dalit quota, the party leadership has tried to play down such reports. “There is provision for only 18 ministers and some aspirants are bound to get left out. These issues will be resolved within the party. However, the party has not received anything officially from those who are being reported to be upset,” said Kumari.
 
 Sources said the party had tried to reach out to   legislator Navtej Singh Cheema, who was expecting a cabinet berth and has been reportedly nursing a grouse for being left out. “He has been working overtime ahead of the 500th anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak in the area and his non-inclusion has come as a disappointment,” said one of his supporters.
 
 Earlier, in the run up to the cabinet expansion, speculations were rife about a reshuffle in portfolios with talk of the good performers being rewarded with additional departments. In line with this, where rural development minister   has also been given housing and urban development, technical education, industrial training and employment generation minister Charanjit Singh Channi has failed to get any more department in the cabinet expansion.
 
 Minister Aruna Chaudhary was not available for comments. 
 
 What’s planned
 
 Ø Six-monthly review of ministers
 
 Ø School education taken from   on request
 
 Ø New inductees getting plum portfolios ruffles feathers
 
 Ø Party leadership trying to reach out to those upset over not getting cabinet berth
 
 
