GURUGRAM:   helps clear Aryan Narang’s mind. It’s a distraction from life’s stressful moments. Wouldn’t it then, he figured, have a similar effect on those less privileged than him, children who endure lives of hardship?

 It’s such a thought that led Aryan, 16, to establishing  , a social initiative that seeks to provide training, equipment, infrastructure and, above all, sport-ing opportunity to disadvantaged kids in government schools across Gurugram and Delhi.
 
 “Football isn’t just a hobby – I’ve realised it acts as a stress-buster when I’m struggling,” Aryan told TOI. It’s such a feeling that this   ( ) student was eager to share with children who live on the margins, for whom embracing sport is a way to enhanced self-esteem.
 
 Almost a year old, Aryan’s idea has taken wings in a couple of city government schools — Government Senior Secondary School, Chakkarpur, and Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Sushant Lok. He’s hoping more will join the Half-Time family.
 
 And while he started out on his own, Aryan’s endeavours drew volunteers to the cause. “They have been working closely with me – because even they feel the same way about sport,” he said.
 
 The Half-Time team of volunteers would call on a school, deposit a few items of kit and introduce themselves to the kids. While getting to know the students, they would also discover a pitch or a field not up to scratch. 
 
 “There would be stones or puddles of water, so we would work on getting that fixed. After that, we keep holding sessions with the kids, and try to do it at least once a week.”
 
  At first, the schools demurred when approached. “Many didn’t want to take part because football wasn’t part of their curriculum, and they felt it wasn’t important enough,” revealed Aryan. Over time, however, sport drew the kids out of their shells, and made them more confident students. “The principal and other teachers realised that football was having a positive effect, because the kids ended up performing better in class.”
 
 Initially, donation drives helped the lads get hold of gear. Now, Aryan has secured the support of a sports equipment retailer. 
 
 Meanwhile, Half-Time has managed to raise Rs 50,000, all so that these kids have a chance of a better life.
 
 “It’s not about making them better players but about giving them an environment where they feel safe, because they have to deal with a lot of things in their lives,” shared Aryan Bhan, 16. Bhan and Manav Chadha, like Aryan final-year students at Shri Ram School (Moulsari), are more than happy to collaborate for a good cause.
 
 “We’re all really into football, we play it in school. And because football is a major part of our lives, this is a perfect way for us to express ourselves,” says Manav, 17.
 
 “If football or any other sport can help them forget about their problems, just for an hour every day, when they’d be playing and enjoying themselves, that makes me happy,” confesses Aryan, a young man only too glad to give back.
 
 
