LUCKNOW: Dipping mercury triggers an increase in the number of patients suffering from brain stroke and heart attack, suggest estimates from city hospitals. A look at data suggests a two-fold rise in the number of people succumbing to the two diseases. “The risk of hemorrhagic stroke doubles in winters. At least 5-6 patients of stroke land at our ward almost everyday,” said Prof  , senior faculty at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) neurology department. A similar trend was noted by Prof AK   who heads neurology department at Ram Manohar Lohiya Hospital, Noting the vulnerability among cardiac patients, head of the department at Lari Cardiology Centre, Prof VS Narain said, “Not just heart attacks, the instances of heart failures too have increased by over 20% with the falling temperatures. Around 30 cases of heart failure are witnessed every week at the centre.”

 Blaming the north Indian climate, Prof Pradhan said, “Human body’s blood pressure tends to increase during winters as blood vessels start contracting. A stroke is usually the result of clotting caused by high blood pressure.”
 
 
  
 
 Doctors also cautioned about the escalated salt levels in the body during the season. “People tend to sweat less and take in more savoury foods in winters. Often they munch on peanuts, popcorn and matar ghugri (green peas) with chutney. Their salt intake increases which gets accumulated in the body due to less sweating, thereby putting extra load on the heart,” said Dr  , retired head of Lari Cardiology.
 
 Pollution too has a part to play in this. “Chilly winters coupled with flu and respiratory infections caused by dust and smog lead to inflammation that contributes to rupture of artery clogging plaque,” said UK Misra, head of neurology department at SGPGI.
 
 Prof Thacker added that cold can be fatal for those susceptible to it. “Elderly and people with existing cardiac problem and high blood pressure, smokers and obese must be watchful as they have a lower capacity to maintain internal body temperature than the others.”
 
