For years, an unethical minority of the medical fraternity has been using ultrasonography to determine sex of the fetus and aid illegal termination of pregnancy. Despite legislations, violators managed to find loopholes in the system and have thwarted attempts to bridge the gender gap arising out of discrimination at birth or before. 

 The Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, 1994, made gender-determination illegal and attracted severe penalty. Although, the hope to bridge the gap was high, nothing much has changed in nearly 25 years. The 2011 census shows a dismal drop in the Child Sex Ratio from 945 in 1991 to 914 — across many states. 
 
 While penalisation has been the basic strategy to tackle the issue, the numbers show that it is almost impossible to weed out the problem through it. An alternative could be sought through digitisation of   and linking it to a centralised database like the Aadhaar. It could work as an extension of the government’s ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ campaign. The new icon could be the new beacon of hope — ‘Beti-Aadhaar’.
 
 A simple, effective, accurate, cost-effective and environment friendly solution. To do this, however, we will have to bring together all state holders — the government, judiciary, doctors, and citizens on one page to fight the crime with the help of technology.
 
 It’s time we to ask ourselves —‘What are we doing’ — ‘Where are we headed’, a popular Latin term ‘Quid Agis — Quo Vadis’. With the PCPNDT Act, the problem was that it focused on sex-determination (abetment) rather than   (perpetration). While ultrasonogram is registered, there is no registry or monitoring system for medical termination of pregnancy. So the crime has remained unchanged, as reflected by the child sex ratio or sex ratio at birth. 
 
 A similar idea of linking medical records to Aadhaar was given by Union minister Maneka Gandhi to declare and document gender. But the idea was shot down by women’s activists. They questioned that when the ministry was not able to monitor a few thousand machines, it would be physically impossible for the government to monitor or follow-up of every pregnancy case.
 
 This argument doesn’t hold in the digital age, when the system is centralised. If a patient’s   are linked with the ultrasound scan report, while ensuring privacy and security, every scan, medical details and delivery can be updated in the system from wherever the tests are done. 
 
 Besides helping the government monitor women’s health status, the   will dissuade the illegal and unethical players. Failure to comply with such simple and effective linking could imply clandestine activity, attracting penalty. The ‘at-risk-girl child’ too can be tracked with the genuine contact details from Aadhaar. Any abortion would compulsorily be documented. It will also minimise or eliminate other gender-based crime such as child marriage as the age of child cannot be manipulated. 
 
 The idea is not completely new and parallels can be found in the JIO tie-up with UIDAI (Unique Identification Authority of India), which allowed customers to activate their SIM after giving their finger-print/ Aadhaar number.
 
 At present, PAN number, bank accounts, insurance details are linked to Aadhaar for greater compliance and transparency. While, these tie-ups check corruption and help nation’s economy, the proposed tie-up can help check foeticide. Girl child protection should be linked to Aadhaar too.
 
 As life is sacrosanct, if the governments ignore the falling sex ratio, the judiciary is empowered to take steps. The national slogan should now be – ‘Beti hamare Jeevan ka Aadhaar, Hamare Desh ka Aadhaar – Beti Aadhaar’. Protect our girl child before and after birth.
 
 (Dr Ravishanker is former president IMA, Tamil Nadu. Dr Rao is an orthopaedic surgeon and medicolegal consultant)
 
 
