For a city of 80 lakh population, the crowded MTC buses, unmetered auto-rickshaws and ill-connected suburban trains hold no charm. This unreliable system has led to an increase in private cars and motorcycles, limiting public transport’s share to a mere 27%. A beginning was made when Chennai   work began to build 45km lines. Plan to have another 100km is in the pipeline. 

 However, Chennai still lags behind in public transport because ideally, the city needs at least 250km of metro rail with multimodal integration. The experience of building the first metro rail has shown that Chennai Corporation,  , state highways department, the state government and the military work at cross purposes. At this juncture bolstering the rail network of the city and providing better connectivity will only be possible if the stakeholders keep a few rules in mind.
 
 More metro rail lines 
 
 The city will need at least an additional 250km stretch of metro rail network to ensure that people will have better connectivity. When phase 2 of 105km is completed, the city will have a decent network of metro rail. We have already identified seven lines. 
 
 The policy is that people should not walk not more than a kilometre to access a metro station and in city limits people should not use cars or scooter to commute. Intermodal connectivity should be encouraged so that buses and share autos can be used to help people who cannot walk for a kilometre to access the stations. This system should be introduced without delay. All departments should come together for the project and should not look at their individual benefits.
 
 Exclusive suburban trains
 
 It is not possible to lay new routes. But what needs to be done is to ensure two exclusive lines for suburban trains throughout the existing network. Railways should double or quadruple lines on Tambaram-Chengalpet route and on Gummidipoondi-Tada route and take steps to run trains every three minutes. The announced air-conditioned coaches can be introduced in a year but railways should prevent footboard travel by introducing a large number of trains and improving signals.
 
 Merging   and Metro rail
 
 Chennai Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) can be made on a par with Chennai metro rail trains. However, railways are reluctant to hand it over to Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL). Trains can be operated with the current rakes and when their rakes come, they can be used after the merger. The merger can be done in a day. But, it is not being done because officers are apprehensive about taking blame for poor maintenance and poor operation, if metro rail shows that it can be operated efficiently. The existing line should be connected to St Thomas Mount. All government departments including the judiciary should take steps to complete the project.
 
 Increasing average speed of trains
 
 Steps should be taken to execute all sanctioned railway projects and improve long distance train operations. There is no need to go for very high speed trains or trains with 160kmph. The focus should be to increase the average speed of trains because of shortfalls in signaling and presence of speed restrictions bring down the average speed of a train to 70 to 80kmph. It is shameful that the entire Chennai-Kanyakumari line was not doubled. The Avadi-Sriperumbudur-Orgadam line was sanctioned in Parliament but due to obstruction at local level, it is yet to take off.
 
 (The author is the former additional general manager, Southern Railway and ex-director, Chennai Metro Rail Limited)
 
 (As told to V Ayyappan)
 
 
