MADURAI: Lord  , the deity of the Alagarkoil temple situated 20 kms away from Madurai city was given a warm welcome when by thousands of people when the deity arrived here early on Sunday. 

 When the twelve-day, Chithirai festival of Meenakshi temple concludes, the deity of the Alagarkoil arrives in the city and participates in a series of rituals for five days, before returning to his abode. The deity left Alagarkoil hills on Saturday and arrived at Moondrumavadi, the entrance of Madurai city on Sunday where people welcomed the idol with camphor, grand music and floral garlands.
 
 All through the deity’s journey, people gathered on the roadside and made offerings. Free food, including curd rice, pongal, buttermilk and fruit drinks were distributed in many places to the lakhs who had come to catch a glimpse of the deity.
 
 People disguised as hanuman and various other disguises led the procession and collected alms from the crowd to redeem their vows. After stopping at the hundreds of ‘mandahapadis’ the deity will reach the Tallakulam Perumal temple late on Sunday night. The deity will be adorned with the floral garland brought from the Srivilliputtur Andal temple, before leaving on his golden horse to enter the River Vaigai between 5.45 am and 6 .15 am on Monday.
 
 Over 8,000 police personnel have been deployed in view of the festival. Over 10 lakh people are expected to witness the deity’s entry into the river. Some cinema halls will also have overnight screening of movies and the government exhibition will be open throughout the night, to help the people to spend the night before they go to witness the annual ritual.
 
 The Chithirai festival of Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple, a Saivite temple and that of the Alagarkoil temple, which is a Vaishanavite temple, had been celebrated as two different events about 500 years ago. It was king   who merged both the festivals bringing about harmony between those who worshipped Lord Shiva and the followers of Lord Vishnu.
 
 
