HYDERABAD: In an alarming trend, 12 persons purchased arms, including swords and daggers, online and posted and shared their pictures on social media. However, their joy was short-lived with Task Force sleuths arresting them for purchasing illegal weapons. After their arrest, Task Force police warned emarketing majors not to indulge in sale of illegal arms.

 After obtaining reliable proof that some etailers were selling illegal arms to customers, police approached a portal and obtained data of people who had purchased the arms in Hyderabad.
 
 Police then raided their houses and arrested 12 persons — Sood Aman Singh, Tusam Kunal Singh, Sudheer Singh, Mohammed Salman, Mohammed Mujeeb, Mustafa Hussain, B Shashikanth Singh, Mohammed Yaseen Ahmed, Md Rawoof,  , Md Sirajuddin and Md Sohail—for being in possession of 10 swords, two daggers and a knife.
 
  
  “The accused purchased illegal arms on Snapdeal and posted photos on social media sites like Facebook holding the illegal weapons. They also shared such images on WhatsApp to intimidate people,” DCP, Task Force, P Radhakishan Rao said.
 
 Of the 12 nabbed, Rawoof and Salman have criminal history. Also, Mujeeb’s brother was killed by rivals a few months ago and he claimed he purchased the weapon to intimidate enemies, police said.
 
 The arrested persons along with the seized illegal arms were handed over to Mangalhat, Hussainialam, Chatrinaka, Golconda, Humayun Nagar, Bahadurpura and Amberpet police stations for further investigation. “We have also recommended action against the representative of e-marketing portal for selling the illegal arms,” Task Force inspector   said.
 
 Police had started a crackdown against illegal arms after a 16-year-old boy died while performing ‘marfa’ (sword dance) at a wedding in Sheikpet when sword of another dancer accidentally slit his throat.
 
 “We are instructing emarketing portals like Snapdeal, Amazon and Flipkart not to sell illegal sharp-edged weapons. Also, we are advising people not to buy illegal weapons online or post photos with prohibited arms on social media. Possession and sale of illegal arms is a cognisable offence under the  ,” the DCP added.
 
