GURUGRAM: The controversy over offering of   in open areas may have faded away, but its impact remains with a lot of city residents, especially minorities who are apprehensive and on edge. Like many such controversies across the country, the   has reignited questions on Indian citizenship of many migrants living in the city. Are they outsiders — Rohingya or Bangladeshi — as alleged?

 TOI visited some migrant settlements in Gurugram bustling right next to its fabled highrises. Conversations with several migrants revealed not only are they Indian citizens, they also possess identity proofs validating their citizenship.
 
 Hailing from Murshidabad, West Bengal, Jamaludin says, “Not only do all of us have ID proof, but we also have to undergo police verification before we get a job or can rent a house.” He lives behind   1, where he runs a repair shop. After two decades in Gurugram though, he’s still an outsider, and has to produce his ID every time he’s stopped by cops on patrol.
 
 The area, called Bengali market near South City 1, has a sizeable population of migrant Muslims. Most of them say they are used to being called outsider. Doubts about their citizenship, however, fall flat when they pull out their Aadhaar, ration or PAN cards. “When I started working as a house help in The Palms, I had to get police verification, only after which did they issue a pass,” said Siddiqua Khatun.
 
 Mukta Naik of Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi, who has been working with the city’s migrants for eight years, says, “Most of these people have identity proofs. They might be living in slums, but even here, you need ID to find a house on rent.” She added police patrolling is more frequent and strident in these areas. Migrants are frequently asked to produce ID proof, failing which they are prosecuted by police. 
 
 Many migrants TOI spoke to confirmed this. “No one can live here without identity proof. If you don’t have these documents, you’re taken away by cops,” said Ghulam Murtaza, a vegetable vendor from North Dinajpur, West Bengal.
 
 Gurugram police accepted regular checks are done on migrants. “We do regular checks and patrols in this area. Most people have their IDs,” said a senior cop. Most migrants come from Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar, and a substantial number of them are Muslims.
 
 In the slum behind  , off Golf Course Road, the scenario was similar. Most of the people here are Muslim migrants from Bengal and Bihar. Gathered around a makeshift mosque, they spoke of their lives, a better part of which has been spent in Gurugram. “We’re all Indians. We too have a right to pray, but if locals don’t want that, we won’t as we’re not here for trouble. We’ve abandoned our homes for a livelihood, which this city provides,” said Raju Sheikh, a driver.
 
 The city needs them too, as most of them work as drivers, domestic helps, security guards, construction workers and cooks. Labelling them as non-Indians is not only incorrect, but driving them out could also have consequences for the city.
 
 
