BENGALURU: In a major breakthrough in the killing of journalist-activist  , the Special Investigation Team probing the murder took into custody 38-year-old   T on Friday for allegedly taking the killer to the spot on his motorcycle.

 In the evening, a city sessions court remanded Naveen alias  , a resident of Maddur, Mandya district, and founder of a splinter unit of the Hindu Yuva Sena, to eight days in SIT custody.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The arrest came hours after TOI reported that SIT officials suspect Naveen of ferrying the killer on the night of September 5, 2017 to Gauri’s house in Rajarajeshwari Nagar, southwest Bengaluru.
 
 SIT deputy chief MN Anucheth confirmed Naveen is in their custody. “Since he’s a suspect, we’ve taken him into custody,” he said.
 
 SIT officials suspect Gauri’s killer belongs to the same group that was involved in the murders of scholar MM Kalburgi, CPI leader Govind Pansare in Kolhapur in 2015 and rationalist Narendra Dabholkar in Pune in 2013. They have said ballistics examination confirmed that the same weapon was used in all four killings.
 
 Naveen was picked up last week from the   bus stand in Majestic area of Bengaluru with a .32-calibre gun and 15 live bullets. He was in the custody of Jnanabharathi police, when SIT sleuths found out that he had bragged to his friend that he had been involved in the Gauri murder.
 
 After questioning Naveen over the past few days, SIT sleuths on Friday decided to take him into custody and approached the sessions court on Friday.
 
 
 
 
 Sources in SIT, however, said they’re yet to conclusively establish that Naveen drove the killer on the bike. “He resembled the man who conducted a recce on September 3 and the morning of September 5. “We had the footage from near Gauri’s house on those two days showing the biker on what appears to be a recce. Naveen’s posture on a bike resembles the man in the footage. We’re waiting for forensic confirmation that the recreated images of Naveen riding the bike matches the man in the CCTV footage,” the sources explained.
 
 “We have enough evidence to establish his presence in RR Nagar on September 3 and 5,” the source said. “Naveen vanished for 15 days and surfaced later. He boasted to a friend that he had been involved in a big job. Naveen also asked the friend whether he was watching TV news and the latter asked him whether it was the Gauri murder. Naveen laughed it away but the friend tipped us off,” sources added.
 
 “Naveen admits to harbouring four individuals from a right-wing outfit. We have drawn their sketches based on his description. We are sure one of them, a man with a receding hairline killed Gauri,” SIT sources said. Sources said they tracked calls between Mangaluru and Goa last week and inputs from some of them confirmed Naveen’s involvement. Naveen has reportedly confessed to arranging a target practice for the four menin July 2017. The four men, sources in the SIT claim, are from a right-wing outfit based outside Karnataka.
 
