Chandigarh: Even though PGIMER doctors feel that their salaries cannot be compared with their corporate counterparts as they both teach and do research, it has come out that 74% of the annual budget of the institute is just spent on paying salary of employees.

 As for allowances, the doctors in the national institute of importance say is ever less than those paid to the babus.
 
 Moreover, the PGIMER professors –– there are 150 out of 500 faculty — get around $2500 excluding round trip business class, airport and conference venue travel fare for international conference from PGIMER every year. This is in addition to the invitations they get for the conferences.
 
 “PGI supports the faculty to attend these conferences for various reasons. First these events help them keep updated with the current knowledge and experience. Secondly,   doctors are leaders in their respective fields. PGI plays an important role in teaching private/corporate hospital doctors so that they can go back and practice with latest knowledge and expertise. This indirectly benefits not only the private doctors, but also the community,” said Dr Rajesh Chhabra, president of the faculty association, PGIMER.
 
 The faculty association of the institute is however aggrieved that the seventh central pay commission recommendations have not been implemented in PGI, AIIMS and JIPMER even after two years of its announcement. All other government employees had been paid as per the pay commission recommendations.
 
 The PGIMER doctors feel that it is unfair to generalize them with all the private/corporate fraternity. “No corporate doctor is involved in research or training. In private sector, doctors start earning after nine years (6yrs of MBBS and 3 years to do MD). However, in PGI, one is eligible to become a faculty after 12 years (MBBS – 6 years; MD – 3 years and senior resident – 3 years). Therefore, the salaries of the two sectors cannot be compared,” said Dr Arun Bansal, general secretary, faculty association, PGIMER.
 
 There are learning resource allowance, bag allowance, DA, besides international conference every year for the faculty and four national conferences. “They are as per any government gazetted officer. PGI doctors don’t get anything extra. In fact, some of the allowances are many time less than the babus or judicial officers. This is in spite of the fact that we put in many time more effort and time than the other government employees,” said Dr Chhabra.
 
 Inset: Numbers say it all
 
 Rs 1207 cr | Total budget announced for the PGI in the recent Union Budget
 
 Rs 892.98 cr (74%) | To be spent in salaries of the staff
 
 Rs 225 cr (18.6%) | To be used to buy equipment
 
 Rs 89.02 cr (7.4%) | Will be spent on human resources
 
 Last year, Rs 920 crore was allocated for salaries and Rs 210 crore for equipment.
 
 Box:
 
 What the PGIMER doctors have to say?
 
 Our OPD timings are from 9am -1pm and they invariably run beyond 1pm and sometimes even up to 7pm. Private/corporate hospital doctors are paid per patient.
 
 No private sector doctor who is on pay rolls work beyond duty hours and who is on partial pay rolls work without extra pay. Most of the private doctors or corporate hospitals are closed on Sundays/gazetted holidays. Some private hospitals are even closed during lunch hours.
 
 
