Trained as a Carnatic singer, but inspired by pop and EDM,  , also known as SaRa, is a multilingual playback singer, composer, and independent musician from Bengaluru. Aspiring to be a   dancer when she was young, Sangeetha’s dreams came crashing down after a tragic accident. “I am a trained Bharatanatyam dancer and wanted to make it my career and perform worldwide. But when I fell off from the roof of my uncle’s house, the doctor told me I had a spinal injury and will not be able to perform ever again. I slipped into depression and felt like I lost everything I had,” says Sangeetha.

  Seeking to come out of her trauma, Sangeetha chose a career as a software engineer and moved to London on work. Realizing that being a software engineer is not what she wanted to do and that her passion was to perform, she decided to become an independent musician. “Being the daughter of a singer, I was trained in classical music as a child. I knew I had to give music a chance, since it is in my genes. So, I began learning Hindustani classical music and other forms of music, and started performing on my own,” says Sangeetha. After all the hard work, she released her first Kannada album, called Sarvasva, in 2015. And thus began her musical career.
 
  Sangeetha has come a long way since. She started off by being an independent musician and then turned playback singer in the Kannada film industry; she has sung for a number of films. She recently made inroads into the Telugu film industry with the Birthday Song from  . Despite being a playback singer, Sangeetha says that she has not given up on being an independent musician. She adds that independent music in the country has almost vanished and that there are very few artistes who are trying to keep it alive. “If you listen to radio or watch television, all you hear and see are film songs. I want to change that by introducing independent music to a larger audience. I also want to revive the 90s pop culture,” she says.
 
  And that is what her new song, Kare, is about, which, she says, is among the first EDM pop singles in Kannada. It’s a romantic number and is dedicated to all those who are in love. When we ask her why she chose EDM and pop, Sangeetha adds, “It’s an effort to revive the pop music culture in India. Pop music and independent artistes ruled the industry in the 90s in India, but now they are vanishing. To change that, my aim is to release several singles — in Kannada, Hindi, Tamil and Telugu — in the near future.” Sangeetha adds that   will also be released in Hindi as Tu Hi.
 
  
 
  
 
 
