Tirunelveli: Glad tidings await naturalists and conservationists as the state government last week declared 22,979.19 hectares of forest area in Ambasamudram taluk of Tirunelveli district, known as Singampatti forest blocks, as reserved forest.

 The area includes the Manjolai estates, which forms part of the Kalakkadu Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve (KMTR). An order in this regard was issued by the government on January 12.
 
 A senior forest official said it was a long-drawn battle between Bombay Burma Trading Company to which the land has been leased for 100 years and the state forest department. The battle began in 1978 during which time the department wanted to declare the area as a reserved forest under Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Forest Act 1882 (Intention of the government to declare the area as a reserved forest).
 
 However, the battle did not come to an end due to which the entire tiger reserve area could not be declared as a reserved forest. When the case came to the Madras high court in September last year, it finally issued an order stating that subject to the lease hold rights of the BBTC, the area can be declared as reserved forest.
 
 Chief conservator of forests and field director of KMTR, A Venkatesh told TOI that the private company scuttled the efforts of the department to declare the area a reserved forest. The company wanted a patta for the land, which was leased to it by exempting the estate area from declaring it as a reserved forest. The BBTC claimed that they became owners of the land. But, this plea was rejected by the Madras high court. The court said the company can remain in the place till the lease period expires in 2028.
 
 Now, with the entire area declared as reserved forest, the Manjolai estate, spread over 8,000 plus hectares will be annexed to the tiger reserve. Adding this land after a decade with the tiger reserve, will help in maintaining contiguity of the area.
 
 The KMTR is the first wildlife sanctuary in the country and a first tiger reserve in the state. The Manjolai estate forms part of the core areas of the tiger reserve and is also the watershed of Tamirabarani river.
 
 Moreover, the entire area has been declared as Agasthiyarmalai biosphere reserve. In 2016, the UNESCO honoured the biosphere reserve by including it in the World Network of Biosphere Reserves.
 
 The reserve is home to one of the highly-endangered arboreal lion-tailed macaque. Apart from that, all the flagship species of wildlife is found in the reserve – elephant, tiger, leopard, Indian gaur and other endangered species. The tiger reserve is home to 2,250 plant species; 46 fish species; 19 species of mammals and 337 birds.
 
 
