KOLKATA: Situated near Ruby and just off EM Bypass,   should be one of the most secure localities with four police stations within easy reach. Anandapur police station, the nearest one, is barely 600m away; it takes just a 2.2km drive to reach Purba Jadavpur PS; 5km away is Garfa PS and the distance of Kasba PS is 7km. Still, when mafia gang members attacked Manabendra Guha and his family at Madurdaha on Tuesday night, the retired bank employee had to seek help from Sonarpur police station, which is 20km away.

 The gang attacked the Guha household since they had protested a land-grab bid.
 
 In fact, the duty officer at Sonarpur PS was candid when the senior citizen called: “Sorry, we cannot provide any help now. We neither have people nor any patrol van to send over to your place. Please come tomorrow and lodge a complaint.” It was cops at Purba Jadavpur PS who went out of their way to help the 64-year-old.
 
 The plight of Guha highlights the need to redraw the jurisdiction of police stations according to the city’s fast-changing demographic profile and socio-cultural metamorphosis of its suburbs. Though several new police stations have been set up, the problem is far from over.
 
 Madurdaha, along with Kalikapur, Anandapur and Mukundapur, is a part of east Kolkata’s rapidly expanding but poorly planned neighbourhood spanning between   wards 105 and 110. They are interspersed with swanky apartments, poorly maintained roads and ill-lit streets. 
 
 “Most of the people staying here are retired and want to live peacefully. But when the police station is situated so far and they do not have adequate personnel, the administration should take necessary steps,” said Ashish Sen, a former judge of Baruipur Court who lives in Madurdaha now.
 
 New apartments in Madurdaha, from where one can walk to EM Bypass in 5 minutes, are selling at Rs 40 lakh. But civic infrastructure is almost non-existent. Sewers don’t exist in large parts and the narrow approach roads are rickety at best. Large swathes of Madurdaha fall under the Kheadaha 2 GP, a panchayat area. The concrete carriageway that connects the area with EM Bypass is within the jurisdiction of KMC but the dirt tracks that then branch out to housing societies are in panchayat’s jurisdiction.
 
 “We are a rural island or enclave surrounded by the city localities that are serviced by KMC. Basic civic amenties that one takes for granted are absent here. We have written to the mayor as well as former  . Both had assured us help,” said AK Samaddar, who was associated with NRS Hospital.
 
 “Sonarpur is one of the biggest police stations in the state. Few decades ago Sonarpur was just a small town but now it includes large swaths of EM Bypass, Garia New Garia and Bansdroni. We have limited number of people and vehicles which is why we cannot do justice to all the complaints we get,” said an officer of Sonarpur PS.
 
 
  
 
 
