ROHTAK: Though the Tuesday’s ruling of the   termed khap panchayat intervention in choice of life partner of adults as ‘illegal,’ some of the Haryana khap leaders did not mince words in expressing their displeasure over it.

 Dubbing the apex court order on khaps as unfortunate, Santosh Dahiya, who is the women wing head of  , said it was an attack on the social fabric of the northern India society.
 
 Dahiya said it was the duty of the civil law to protect and honour customary law associated with the sentiments of the society. “The decision is not only unfortunate but also is a direct attack on smashing the backbone of the old age system of resolving issues amicably,” Dahiya said.
 
 She said the core issue of khaps pleading the case for not permitting marriages within 3Gs (gaam, guhand and gotra)—village, neighbourhood and sub-caste—was that these were considered taboo.
 
 Meanwhile, Mahender Singh Nandal, former head of  , said inter-caste marriages was never an issue in the agrarian state. “There are 2.40 lakh brides from other states, mostly from northeast married in Haryana. They are also from different caste, religion and background. We have no issues about it,” Nandal said.
 
 Nandal said the amendment in the Hindu Marriage Act 1955 to bar marriage within the 3Gs was the duty of the government and not the court.
 
 Expressing shock over the court’s decision, Tulsi Grewal, head of   and an advocate, said the decision taken by court seemed to be one-sided. He said, “Our reasons, evidences and historical facts supporting the 3Gs were not presented in court effectively, but we would appeal against the verdict and get it repealed.”
 
 Sunil Jaglan, who is the president of the Sarv Jatiya Sarv Khap Mahapanchayat, admitted that some fanatic groups in the garb of khaps used to pass diktats on young couples and the SC order would serve as a deterrent for them.
 
 On adults choosing their partners in Haryana, he said they would make efforts to counsel such youths to honour the old age practices by not marrying within village, neighbourhood and same gotra.
 
 
