 has always played a vital role in the Indian Premier League since the inception in 2008. In fact,   has been one of the most dominant sides with their staggering record. Now, that the team is back after the suspension period, the fans are quite ecstatic about it. CSK, which has already retained  , Suresh Raina and Ravindra Jadeja has managed to bring back the support staff who were part of the team in the   journey. Following the inclusion of Michael Hussey as a batting coach, Stephen Fleming and   have also been brought back into the side as head coach and bowling coach respectively. CT spoke to the veteran bowler on being appointed as the coach and more.

 Talking about coming back to CSK after 8 years, L Balaji says, “It feels great to have come back to the side. I played for the team in the early years and now I am back as a coach. Chennai is where I started my career and it is always special when I can give it back to the city where I learned the sport. As a cricketer one has to travel a lot. So, when you come back to your home town and team, it is very comforting and special.”
 
 Balaji played for CSK from 2008 to 2010 and moved to the Kolkata Knight Riders before moving to Kings XI Punjab in 2014. Did he miss being part of CSK for so many years? “In a tournament like IPL, as a player you want to do your best to whichever team you are playing for. I think CSK has garnered tremendous adulation from millions of fans, not only from the city, but all over the country. CSK has had a huge impact in the game because most of the teams admire the way they conduct themselves on the field and that showed in the performance of the team. With the fan following, admiration and the brand of cricket CSK played, I think it is one of the most decorated teams in the history of IPL.”
 
 Balaji, as a coach wants to play a major part in the success of the team. “Look at the different sports and you will figure out most of the legendary players would want to give back to the game. They want to make sure many good players come, so it is very important for you to be involved in the game and contribute to the team as well as the players of the next generation. It is a great trait in sporting career that even after retirement you have a chance to contribute to the game.”
 
 What do you think is the main reason behind retaining all the support staff? “We have all played together since 2008, Flem (Flemming), Hussey and a few others. I think it is good to be associated with the team you played for because you know what brand of cricket the team plays. You know exactly how it feels to be part of that particular team in success and defeat. These things matter a lot to support staff as you come back into the franchise to work behind the scene.”
 
 About the challenges CSK would face, he shares, “We have retained the core team, but we still have to select many players including back up players as all these things form a stronger unit. In the previous years when CSK was dominating, a number of young talents were given the opportunity. Many of them played huge roles for the respective countries. So, we have to pick the right team and start from the scratch. We should start from the beginning, build a team and a good brand of cricket and continue playing that kind of cricket for longer periods.”
 
 When asked if the team will be under pressure to deliver after a two-year hiatus, he says, “Irrespective of whichever team a player plays, he is going to be under a lot of pressure in all big tournaments and leagues. That’s where special players stand out. They play well and deliver to the team’s success under such situations.”
 
 What does he think about local players representing the respective team? “As I have said before, if there is talent, it will be recognized. You can’t pick a player just because he is from Chennai. We are representing a brand and the brand needs to perform. The game has to be served more than the players. If there is talent, it will be recognised irrespective of where it is from.”
 
 About MS Dhoni leading the side, he says, “I think everyone knows about his ability to lead and stand up for the team. The most important thing is how he handles his emotions after a win or defeat. He has the ability to discover the potential of the players and take their standard of cricket to a different league altogether by providing them enough opportunities. A lot of cricketers have benefitted from his captaincy and that’s what you call leadership. He is not only a leader for the team but makes sure individuals excel in the game. Take the case of Dwayne Bravo, Ravichandran Ashwin and even Ashish Nehra, while making a comeback. He has made the country proud and made an entire cricketing generation, think differently.”
 
