KOCHI: While most police stations in Kochi are busy either with cases of chain snatching, thefts or pickpocketing, this city police station is facing a never before crisis - unidentified bodies dumped in its limits.   police came across three yet-to-be identified bodies in a month's time, two of which they are sure are of murder victims.

 According to officials, the persons involved in crime-suspects and victims-being migrants make it all the more difficult to identify them. The officers here have come with a novel method to avoid such a crisis in the future.
 
 Officials are now keeping a special ledger to record data on migrants. While, the work address and home address of a migrant is usually recorded before issuing an identity card, under a government scheme, Panangad police have started to maintain a ledger that has at least seven addresses of every migrant in their station limits.
 
 "A ledger would have a picture and a copy of the Aadhaar card of the migrant labourer on one side. The other side would have addresses and phone numbers of his current residence, workplace, agent, permanent address, address of the panchayat ward member from his home town and the address of the police station limit which he is from," said  , who holds the charge of sub-inspector. 
 
 A copy of the ledger would be kept with the police as well as at the workplace of the migrant labourer. The police would visit the shops and establishments occasionally to check whether the migrant is still working in the area and get the ledger signed by him. Police say that they are planning to advice migrant labourers to keep a copy with themselves for further identification as well, said an officer.
 
 Panangad police's encounter with unidentified bodies began on November 10, 2017 when a body in a sack was found dumped in  . The latest was the unidentified body found in a plastic barrel filled with concrete at   on January 8. Earlier the body was thought to be of a missing Udayamperoor native but police believe that the deceased might be a person hailing from another state.
 
 "The batch number of the malleolar screw found on the left leg of the body was a vital clue. The 6.5cm screw is commonly used to fix fractured bones of ankle and foot. The screw was found in the ankle joint of the deceased's left foot," said investigators.
 
 Six surgeries with malleolar screw technology have been performed in the state during the last three years. Police traced five such people who underwent the surgery and recorded the statements. The only person they could not trace was a woman hailing from Udayamperoor. The woman had left for Mumbai and did not maintain any links with her relatives. Police officers said that there is no confirmation on the woman from Udayamperoor being the deceased. "The missing woman is around 60 years old. We had earlier found that the body is of a woman aged around 30. Hence there is hardly any chance of it being her," said an officer adding that more information cannot be divulged as the probe is progressing in the right direction.
 
 In the first incident, police could only find that the deceased person was a man and he was smothered to death. The investigation was conducted based on the type of the sack and even based on the rope but they couldn't make any headway.
 
 Panangad police are also investigating the death of a woman who according to a witness fell from a train on December 27. The body which got cut in half was found from the railway track. Police said that the woman was found with a locket and seems to be a native of Tamil Nadu. However, the body remains unidentified and is kept at   medical college.
 
 
