While many youngsters have made the most of their summer breaks with cool internships, learning new languages and travelling, a huge task lies ahead of them with the new academic session set to begin soon. No, it’s not about gearing up for studies, but finding accommodation in the city. Most of the students who come to Pune for further studies go through a tough time as they hunt for places to stay. Though some wait for the hostel admissions to begin (sometime in July), many prefer living independently in rented apartments or PG accommodation. In this edition of What’s Up, Campus? we find out why students are ditching college hostels and how house-hunting in Pune is no mean feat…

 
 Despite the curfew and strict rules at PG accommodations, many students prefer opting for them due to safety concerns elsewhere. Bhavesh Shende, who is pursuing MA in English at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), says, “I am from Chandrapur and have always lived with my family. So, leaving my comfort zone and living independently in a new city is overwhelming for me. I have opted for a paying guest facility as it’s not just affordable but safe as well.” He a grees that there are certain rules which he has to adhere to. “I cannot bring friends over, the curfew is 8 pm, non-veg food is not allowed and listening to loud music and television is prohibited. But these are the adjustments I am willing to make for a safe stay in the city,” he says.
 
 
 
 If your college is located at a prime location, getting a place to stay nearby within your budget is next to impossible. Leena Mittal, who will be pursuing MBA from the reputed Brihan Maharashtra College of Commerce (BMCC) located in the Deccan Gymkhana area, learnt this soon. “Living as a student in a new city can be challenging on many fronts. Finding accommodation withing one’s budget is one of them. For me to find budgeted accommodation near my college was a big task.” Thankfully, the college helped her out. “BMCC’s student accommodation cell, helped me find a shared apartment near FC Road. I had no idea that such groups existed where students help each other out. Though the shared apartment is not big, it is near to my college and has all basic amenities,” shares Leena.
 
 
 
 Sakshi Agrawal, a student of mechanical engineering at Sinhagad College of Engineering, feels that it’s important to come out of the cushioned existence of one’s home as we grow up. “While at home, our families are there to support us. But living alone makes us independent and street-smart. I will be staying at an apartment near my college and will also be working part-time. This is something I am really excited about — to manage my education and expenses on my own,” she shares.
 
 
 
 Everyone who is a fan of the series F.R.I.E.N.D.S., has always had the desire to stay together with their friends. Heena Sharma, a self-confessed fan of the sitcom, is no different. “I grew up watching the series and always wondered how cool it would be to live with my friends in a new city. The dream has finally come true,” she says. Heena and her friends will be moving in together at a rented apartment. “Though we are studying in different colleges, it will be great to come back to a common home. This is bonding time for us,” says the Symbiosis Institute of Media and Communication (SIMC). 
 
 
 If you explore the city, you are sure to come across boards outside certain housing societies that say ‘Bachelors not allowed’. This is one of the major concerns plaguing students who are searching for apartments on rent. Ashish Roy, a student of architecture at MIT, Loni, shares, “I have always dreamt of studying in Pune and now that I have secured an admission in an institute here, the challenge is to find a place to stay, near the college. Opting for off-campus accommodation is a personal choice because I want to take up the responsibility of living independently,” he says adding, “But, as a bachelor, finding accommodation in the city can be challenging. Most owners prefer letting out flats to families. Even security guards of many housing societies don’t entertain single men looking for accommodation citing orders from society members.” Ashish has been unable to find a house yet and is temporarily putting up at a cousin’s place. “My search is on and hopefully, I will find a place somewhere around Hadapsar before the academic session begins,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
 
