PANAJI: The   ( ), in a circular issued on Friday, said that degrees, diplomas and certificates awarded through the distance mode of education will now be treated on par with the corresponding ones awarded to students on completing courses full-time through colleges. 

 Goa does not have any UGC recognised institution to grant distance programme, but the circular has brought cheer to IGNOU students in the state.
 
  
  
 
 The Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), headquartered in Goa at  , is the only authorized body in Goa to offer courses of higher education through distance mode. IGNOU is an university set up through an Act passed by the parliament. 
 
 The list of UGC’s distance education bureau shows that there is not a single other institute in Goa authorized to run distance education programmes.
 
 Students pursuing IGNOU programmes in Goa will now see their degrees, diplomas and certificates being treated on par with those awarded after pursuing programmes full-time.
 
 “The Open and distance education system in the country is contributing a lot in expansion of higher education and for achieving target of gross enrolment ratio, without compromising on quality. Non recognition/non equivalence of degrees of open and distance learning institutions for the purpose of promotion/employment and pursuing higher education may prove a deterrent to many aspiring students and will ultimately defeat the purpose of open and distance education,” Friday’s UGC circular states.
 
 UGC had notified the UGC (open and distance learning) regulations 2017 on June 23 last year. As per the regulations, the programmes in engineering, medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, nursing, architecture, physiotherapy and such other programmes which require hands-on training are not permitted to be offered under open and distance learning mode.
 
 But all other degrees, diplomas and certificates awarded for programmes conducted by the open and distance learning institutions, recognised by the erstwhile DEC/UGC, will be from now on treated as equivalent to the corresponding awards of the degrees, diploma, certificate of the traditional universities in the country, the UGC circular issued on February 23 states.
 
 
