Coimbatore: Gulomjonov Kakhraman, a 24-year-old pianist and soloist from Uzbekistan, grew up listening to Hindi songs and watching Hindi movies. They kindled such a strong passion in the professionally-trained concert pianist that he began to perform Hindi songs also. Kakhraman, who is a part of the six-member family band ‘Havas Guruhi’ (White Envy) from Uzbekistan, will perform in ‘Uzbekistaal’ in the city on Saturday. The band has been performing in cities across India since December 21. “We had three shows in Delhi, one in Agra and two in Mumbai. After this event in Coimbatore, we will perform at two events in Pune,” says 46-year-old Ermatov Rustamjon Gulomjonivich, Kakhraman’s father and head of Havas Guruhi. “We had a good response from Indian audience in all the cities,” he adds. The other members of Havas Guruhi are Gulomjonivich’s wife Ermatova Matluba Murotkhojaevna and children Gulamjanova Shakhnoza, Gulamjanov Dostonbek and 9-year-old Gulamjanova Robiyakhon. Kakhraman says Uzbek music is similar to Indian classical music as both are based on melody. “This is the first time I’m playing with Indian musicians. We think alike while playing and it is an enjoyable experience,” he says. A self-confessed fan of Raj Kapoor, Kakhraman says, “Sangam and Awara are my favourites among his films.” So, how did Havas Guruhi land in Coimbatore? City-based entrepreneur and travel-enthusiast Meenakshi Sai, on her road trip to London in March last year, happened to listen to them when she was in Uzbekistan. “They sang a Hindi song. After many days without any Hindi music, it was so refreshing to listen to them," says Meenakshi, a Bollywood music buff. Havas Guruhi have also been learning songs in other Indian languages such as Marathi, Punjabi and Tamil to find a better-connect with the people in the cities they perform. They plan to perform ‘Nenje Ezhu’ from the movie ‘Maryan’ and ‘Ennodu Nee Irundhaal’ from ‘I’ at the Saturday’s event. “I downloaded the lyrics in English and had been practising them. It was a bit difficult to get the pronunciations right at first, but I have improved,” says Kakhraman. “We hope to spread positive energy in the city through our music,” he says and adds he hopes to promote a cultural friendship between India and Uzbekistan. Havas Guruhi will perform at 6pm on Saturday at the indoor auditorium at Hindustan College.