Machiwara: Despite education department officials in Machiwara facing flak over the severe shortage of staff, the primary school in the area does not have a single permanent teacher. 

 Education department officials conceded to the absence of a permanent teacher at Government Primary School, Dhulewal which has classes from I to V. According to them, the sole woman teacher posted at the school was transferred on November 21 but was not relieved by the Block Primary Education office.
 
 “She was not relieved but she didn’t return to the school and joined the school in Mansa saying her father is unwell. The education department is enquiring into the matter but in the meanwhile, the school remains without a permanent teacher. In the absence of a permanent teacher, two temporary education providers are teaching students,” said an education department official.
 
 Sources in the education department said even as education providers are trying their best to teach students, who mostly belong to poor families, there is a dire need for a permanent teacher in the school. They also said the education providers were not able to provide food to students under the midday meal scheme. 
 
 A social activist who works in the education and poverty alleviation sector in the area many schools in Bet area of Machiwara face a similar predicament.
 
 “Children from poor families study in the school and the absence of a permanent teacher has an adverse effect on them, especially as their examination is round the corner. We do appreciate the fact that education providers are doing a good job. There are many such schools in Bet area of Machiwara which face shortage of permanent teachers in the school”, said social worker Shiv Kumar Shivly. He urged the education department to fill posts in such schools immediately.
 
 Parents of students are worried about their children’s education under the circumstances. “We have no other option but to send our children to school as something is better than nothing. Even though education providers, who are paid very less, teach children, we request the education department to immediately depute a permanent teacher at the school. The teacher should preferably be from the same area”, said father of a student, asking not to be named. 
 
 Education department authorities said they are aware of the problem. “It is true that after the permanent teacher left without being relieved, two education providers are teaching students. They can teach students as they are trained to do so. However, we have requested authorities to depute a permanent teacher for the school”, said block primary education officer Sher Singh. He said there are around 20 students in the school and a single teacher will be deputed for them.
 
 Sometime back, TOI published a news report on a government school in Hambowal village of Machiwara being forced to hire private tutors in the face of staff crunch. Village residents and even NRIs pitched in to pay the salaries of private tutors as people were desperate to ensure their children did not face a problem in studies. At present, the school has 12 teachers - six appointed by the government and as many private teachers against the sanctioned strength of 28. 
 
 
