INDORE: Excise department on Thursday debarred five ‘blacklisted’ firms from taking part in renewal, lottery or e-auction process of  .

 “Following instructions from principal secretary of commercial tax department Manoj Shrivastava, Gulmohar Traders and its partners have been debarred from taking part in the renewal, lottery and e-action process of obtaining liquor licence for next financial year,” excise commissioner   told TOI.
 
 He said that the secretary’s instructions were based on the opinion sought from additional advocate general, Samdarshi Tiwari regarding implementation of clause 19.4 of the current liquor policy.
 
 Gulmohar Traders had obtained licence to run liquor shops of a group in Burhanpur district for current financial year. When the firm failed to submit excise duty on time, the local excise department re-auctioned the shop at a loss of Rs 1.76 crore.
 
 As per the clause 19.4 of current liquor policy, Gulmohar Traders is responsible for paying the difference money and on failing to do it, the company has been ‘blacklisted’ and will not be allowed to apply for renewal of their shops across the state.
 
 Burhanpur district collector Deepak Singh has asked the excise department not to release bank guarantee/FDA of Rs 5.26 crore, as deposited by the group for its other liquor shops situated in Damoh, Vidisha, Ujjain, Tikamgarh and   district, till the firm cleared difference the amount.
 
 “As per the rules, all the partners of Gulmohar Traders and their firms including Maxima Traders, Avinash Challana & Co, Satsangi Traders and Million Traders have also been debarred from all three process of obtaining the liquor licence,” the commissioner said.
 
 According to the sources, these five major liquor groups had applied for renewal of their around 100 shops across the state.
 
 The decision might affect the department’s target of securing above 70 per cent of its aim for next financial year from allotment of liquor shops through renewal and lottery system, which concluded on Thursday.
 
 
