TIRUPUR: A 22-year-old woman has petition the district collector seeking action against a contractor of Tantransco (Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation), for the death of her husband. 

 In her petition to the collector   on Monday, A Muniyammal, a hearing- and speech-impaired woman, said her husband Sivakumar, 27, of   in Salem district was working as a fitter for contractor Raja for more than five years. 
 
 The contractor would involve in fitting high-voltage transmission lines in various places across the state. On July 15, 2017, Sivakumar and his team were deployed to fit such transmission towers near Vellakoil in   district.
 
 While fitting the transmission towers, Sivakumar slipped from a tower and died on the spot. 
 
 The Vellakoil police registered a case under section 304 (A) of the IPC (non-motor vehicle accident) and booked Raja and chief supervisor Srinivasan for failing to provide safety gear to Sivakumar, and for their negligence.
 
 Since there was no action taken against the contractor even after 10 months of the incident, the family, including the mother of the deceased, sought district collector K S Palanisamy’s intervention.
 
 Sivakumar’s mother  , 43, told TOI: “Sivakumar, a school dropout, was the main fitter and he had good knowledge about the work. It was clearly the fault of the contractor, chief supervisor and engineer. They did not provide any safety gears. Moreover, phase was passed in the entrapped wire, which he tried to clear it, instead of earth. So, it was a murder.” 
 
 “Sivakumar was the only breadwinner for his family of wife and two children. He was the one who took care of my health since I suffered cardiac ailment. But now it had all changed. We want nothing but justice for my son’s death.”
 
 Sivakumar’s uncle   said, “The contractor promised us to provide compensation of Rs 4 lakh but gave only half of the amount. We did not know what action was taken against him for negligence by the police.”
 
 State vice-president of Central Organization Electrical Workers Trade Union Gopalakrishnan said, “Many such accidents occur but they will not come into books often as the contractors would use their influences. In this case, the contractor was booked for failing to provide safety gears to the deceased. The government should immediately take action against the accused and provide compensation.”
 
 
