BELAGAVI/MYSURU: Sitavva Jodatti, an activist who was conferred the   Shri for her struggle to eradicate Devadasi culture for the past two decades, and Darshan, a Mysuru resident, found mention in Prime Minister  's 'Mann ki Baat' on Sunday.

 Sitavva, who was busy in a women's meeting in the morning, later listened to  's speech on   on her mobile. She told TOI that she was happy that he mentioned her name alongside many great achievers of the country.
 
 Modi, in his talk, said, "... Sitavva Jodatti from Karnataka has not been hailed as 'goddess of women empowerment' for nothing... For the past three decades, in Belagavi, she has made a great contribution towards changing the lives of countless women. At the age of seven, Sitavva dedicated herself as a Devadasi but in a turnaround, she spent her entire life for their welfare. She has done unprecedented work for the welfare of Dalit women too..." 
 
 Modi also referred to Darshan's email to mygov.in. "He was spending Rs 6,000 a month on medicines alone for the treatment of his father. Earlier, he wasn't aware of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Yojana. But now that he's come to know of the Jan Aushadhi Kendra, he has begun purchasing medicines from there and his expenses have been reduced by about 75%. 
 
 "He expressed his wish that I mention this in 'Mann Ki Baat', so that it reaches the maximum number of people and they can benefit from it. Lately, many have written on this subject; many have been telling me about it. I too have seen videos put up on social media by beneficiaries..." the PM added.
 
 Sitavva told TOI, "I worked for nearly 25 years to eradicate the Devadasi culture, but never thought that my work would be recognized. Apart from the Padma Shri, PM Modi has made my struggle known to every person in the country by talking about me in his 'Mann ki Baat'. I am thankful to the PM." She expressed hope that she could work to provide quality education and employment to kids of about 4,000 Devadasis, for which she plans to approach the women and child welfare department and the social welfare department.
 
 Sitavva, 44, originally from Kabbur in Chikkodi taluk, has been working as executive officer of the Mahila Abhivruddhi Mattu Samrakshana Sansthe (MASS) since 2012. 
 
 MASS is an organization of former Devadasi women based in Belagavi, and with its head office in   town of Gokak taluk. 
 
 Sitavva's drive began in 1991 and is continuing. Sitavva, who has studied till Class 7, succeeded in bringing nearly 3,600 Devadasis into the mainstream society and improving their social life. She also rescued nearly 500 girls from child marriage.
 
 
