It’s not just hearsay. A red lipstick does pucker up your mood in an instant. In fact, a study goes as far as saying (proving rather) that people wearing red tees to gyms lose more calories than the ones in blue or grey! Now, before you make a run for all things red, hasten your step, and try to understand the impact that colours have in our lives. While red is good, it doesn’t always have all the answers… 

  “Every colour vibrates at different levels; it doesn’t matter if you can see them or not, it goes through your skin, over your whole body and into your brain,” says colour analyst  . She urges people not to rush through the choice of work wear in the morning. Bright colours are the easiest way to get yourself feeling positive and spirited (especially Monday mornings) and ultra-marine blue, according to her emanates extremely positive energy. Hear this out: black, grey and white provide no energy. It’s time to rethink our office wear. 
 
 
 
  Not everyone among us loves bright colours. But experts feel that if we see our emotions through a colour code, we’ll understand clearly that it’s better to wear less black. Jules Standish, author of How Not To Wear Black, asks in this book, “Is it (black) worn to look slim, sexy and smart or to feel safe in and hide behind?” Standish goes on to establish that black — as much as women love it — has a negative impact on women’s faces. To be more precise, it “highlights the ageing process. Black can drain energy, compound depression and hinder personal healing”.
 
 
 
 
  Ditch that Little Black Dress. Pick up that Little Colourful Dress. By ditch, we don’t mean throw it away. But keep it for a time when you know nothing and no one can make you feel bad. In times of uncertainty or ambiguity, choose bright hues over black. When we look at certain colours, it triggers neurological responses in the brain, and causes the hypothalamus gland to release hormones. Says spiritual expert Rohini Singh, "Looking at warm, bright colours, such as red or pink, releases dopamine or the 'feel-good hormone'. 
 
  Research has found that we associate yellow with joy, so wearing it can boost your mood. In another study by Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, researchers gave the doctor’s lab coats to subjects (none of whom were doctors) and then asked them to perform a series of complex tasks. Those in white coats made significantly fewer mistakes than the people in their street clothes. 
 
  
 
 
  Colour therapists believe we should wear strong, bright colours on days we feel down. Chakra healer Seema Midha says using the right combination of colours can heal you. “Yellow’s mood-improving qualities make it perfect for treating depression. This colour of sunshine and new beginnings, it adds cheer to your life, stimulates mental faculties and is an attention-grabber.”
 
  Our chakras, the luminous energy field known as our ‘light body’ or ‘aura’ surrounds all living beings. “If you want to raise your vibration, wear a lot of bright red and pinks; they exude power,” says Midha.
 
  
 
 
 
  
  Red; 
  Red is a physical colour – it promotes feelings of being grounded; 
  The base of your spine.
 
  
 
 
  
  Orange; 
  Energising and brings warmth; 
  Below your belly button.
 
  
 
  
 Yellow; 
  Strong emotional colour of optimism that raises self-esteem; 
  A few inches above your belly button.
 
  
 
 
  
 Green; 
 Colour of well-being; 
 Centre of your chest.
 
  
 
 
  
  Blue; 
 An intellectual colour which makes you feel smart; 
  Between your collar bones.
 
  
 
 
  
  Indigo; 
 A very spiritual colour that brings psychic energy and self-awareness; 
 Between your eyebrows.
 
  
 
  
 Violet or white; 
  Brings calmness; 
 The centre is located at the top of your head.
 
 Colour therapists believe we should wear strong, bright colours on days we feel down. Yellow has mood-improving qualities and can treat depression. Studies show that red is a physical colour – it actually puckers up your mood instantly.
 
 
 
 
 
