In the latest episode of  , Manish gets angry when Shubham comes home drunk. He asks Swarna to ask Shubham to maintain his conduct if he wants to stay in their home. 

 
 At the Singhania mansion, Naitik asks Kirti to play a video game with him. Naksh looks at her and gets worried, praying for her good health. Meanwhile, Kartik follows up on the stalker's case with the inspector but there is no improvement. Kartik decides to skip office and stay at home with Naira.
 
 Naira and Kartik spend some time together in their room. In hopes of seeing Naira, Kabeer climbs up a wall which makes the security alarms ring. Everyone gets worried thinking about the intruder.
 
 As the security guard chases Kabeer, Kartik decides to go behind him as well. He manages to escape.
 
 Dadi and Naira worry for Kartik and pray that he is safe. As Kartik looks around for Kabeer, he turns around to find Kabeer waiting there. Kabeer tells him that he had come to meet Shubham. Kartik asks him if he saw an intruder on the run but Kabeer manages to divert his attention and makes him run in the opposite direction. 
 
 The guards come back home without Kartik. Naira worries and runs to look for Kartik. As Kartik returns, she hugs him and asks if he is okay. Akhilesh and Manish decide to alert the police about the same.
 
 Naksh cancels a meeting so that he can take Kirti to the doctor but the latter asks him to concentrate on his work and says she can go with someone else. Naksh worries and asks her to keep him updated about the reports.
 
 Kartik, Naira and Manish talk to the police about the criminal. As she goes to prepare tea, she feels that her stalker is still around.
 
 Naksh and Kirti are on their way to the hospital when Kirti jokes about having a stomach ache and scares Naksh. He asks her not to do something like that again. Kirti asks him if he is okay but Naksh refuses to talk about what is troubling him.
 
 At his home, Kabeer stares at a picture of Naira and holds a mangalsutra in his hand and promises that he will marry her one day. He says that the police won't be able to stop him. Shubham comes there. Kabeer hides the photo.
 
