The  , an association of 20 top   that account for 80% of the country’s exports and 46% of the domestic market, has submitted a report to the government that says that public health safeguards in the patent law were not being used effectively.

 The   pointed out that an analysis of patent filings between 2007 and 2012 had shown that a third of the patentees got away with not disclosing whether a patent was being used or not and a third were defective or incomplete.
 
 In a report submitted to the   and the  , the IPA referred to an ongoing case in the Delhi high court seeking directions to the government to compel patentees and licensees to declare information on the working of their patent as required under the Patent Act.
 
 The IPA report pointed out that many subsections in the Act were introduced to safeguard public health, prevent abuse of patent rights and ensure that patents contributed to dissemination of technology. It added that compulsory licences were a mechanism to ensure availability of medicines at reasonable prices especially where patents were not being used.
 
 The use of compulsory licence was not unusual as there were 100 instances of their use between 2001 and 2016, of which six were in the developed world, submitted the IPA.
 
 These licences were largely for HIV (73), cancer (12) and other diseases (15). So far, India has issued just one compulsory licence in early 2012.
 
 Neither has India ever revoked a patent for non-working, nor has the government granted compulsory licence for government use or for any public health imperative.
 
 IPA pointed out that the law empowered the controller of patents to demand information from patentees and licensees annually on how much the patent was being worked commercially.
 
 Such information was crucial to assess the balance between incentivising innovation and promoting public health by ensuring adequate availability of medicines at a reasonable price, IPA said.
 
 The alliance demanded that the patents’ controller place patent filings in the public domain and make them available under the RTI Act so that civil society and NGOs could assess the extent to which patents were being worked commercially. 
 
 Just as the controller’s office had made filings for 2012, 2013 public in a searchable database, it ought to digitize all filings and make them available in a searchable database, it added.
 
 The alliance urged the government to ensure that patent filing was done properly and that required forms were complete so that the controller could assess how the patent was being used to decide on granting or revoking compulsory licences and patents.
 
