It is vacation time, but the premises of the  , Tripunithura, are alive. Students from the Fine Arts Department can be seen in front of the gate every single day, trying to drive home a strong message, through an indefinite strike. Delay in filling the vacancies for teachers in the Fine Arts Dept, and a lack of the required funds for the college, are their main concerns.

 But this is no ordinary protest, coming from an artistic lot, and is quite a creative one. The students hold jamming sessions inside a small tent with their guitars, and many of those driving by can be seen stopping and listening to the soul stirring music, and their grievances through them. The students say this is exactly what they are seeking for through the strike; the more attention they get, the more the chances of redressing their grievances.
 
 The vibrant dream catchers they have woven by themselves are hung on either side, indirectly implying that they are hopeful about their aspirations. Amal Jyothi, a Fine Arts student from the college, says, “In place of fiery slogans, we have music and art. As we spend the entire day under the scorching sun, we sing, we paint and do things that we are good at. Curious onlookers often come up to us and ask if they can buy a dream catcher. We use the money for our food.”
 
 Another student from the Fine Arts department, Rithun M, says that they also draw portraits and hand them over to people who can lend an ear. “We have initiated the legal procedures required for quick action from the authorities, but we thought it best to vent our feelings through such means as well.” Amal further throws light on why such a strike has been conducted by the students, “When compared to the Music Department, our department has been given a secondary status, and many of our needs as students are left unattended. There are more than 20 vacancies for teachers in our stream, and we have just two teachers.”
 
 Echoing similar concerns is his teacher Antony Karal, the HOD of the department of painting, who says that the students have been struggling to get the required number of teachers for around 30 years now. “In the post-graduation level, there aren’t posts for teachers in Art History, Aesthetics and more. Another area of concern is that the funding that we receive for seminars and other academic events are almost the same as for any other colleges. What the authorities must understand is that unlike in other colleges, we require a lot of resources to conduct practical classes.”
 
 Antony points out that the predominance of music in the college dates back to the time the royal family in Tripunithura founded the college. Though the college was taken over by the government a long time ago, there hasn’t been any kind of development for the Fine Arts students, he says. “The maximum level that a junior lecturer from Fine Arts department can be promoted to is a lecturer. But the music department lecturers can get promoted to assistant professor and professor.”
 
 Amal adds that despite the fact their syllabus was renewed way back in 2009, it has not been implemented yet, and they are still being taught with outdated study materials. AR Devi, the principal-in-charge says she is aware of their needs as students, and empathises with them. She says, “It feels bad to see their despair. I extend all my support to them. The former prinicipal VK Rameshan recently retired, and as soon as a new principal takes charge, we will ensure that steps are taken in this regard. As of now, we have contacted the director of the Department of Collegiate Education (DCE). We are sure that something positive will come out of it.”
 
 The students on strike are hoping that slow and steady will win the race, and if not them, at least the upcoming batch of students will benefit from their efforts. 
 
