NAGPUR: City police crime branch has registered offences at Pachpaoli police station against 10 families from   in North Nagpur for   more than 60 minors and young adults as their children to the United Kingdom (UK) between 2007 and 2015. Six travel agents from Guru   locality too are under the scanner.

  (IEI), a wing of the British High Commission, had sent a detailed report to crime branch in October 2017, exposing the city-based trafficking racket. The Sikh and Sindhi families were allegedly actively smuggling persons into the UK as labourers and other workers for Rs2 lakh each. Most of the victims, as per the IEI report, are either underground or have shifted to undisclosed locations in the UK.
 
 IEI has also seized and cancelled several passports and visas from some of the racketeers, before asking the city police to act against the families in question for impersonation, forgery, trafficking and violation of passport rules and regulations.
 
 Around 13 trafficked persons could be traced by IEI in the UK while 11 could not be traced. One of the minors also claimed to have been sold by his aunt to the couple, who had sent them to UK through agents. The so-called victims, as per the IEI report, were sent on visit visas.
 
 The report had mentioned the involvement of Gujjar, Multani, Atwal and Gotra families as the main culprits. They used different facilitators or agents to prepare fake documents and records, based on forged certificates. They would procure passports to traffic minors and young adults, claiming they were their children. The IEI, in its report, had mentioned a couple had even mentioned the date of birth of their two children separated by only six months. The Patwali and Mann families too are under the scanner, apart from the 10 mentioned in the IEI report.
 
 Rulad Singh Gujjar and his wife Paramjeet reportedly showed as many as 19 persons as their children, attaching questionable records as credentials while filing applications. The IEI report claimed the Gujjar couple would leave the UK every time before expiry of their visas. They had headed towards Abu Dhabi after leaving UK in 2014.
 
 The Gujjar family was grilled by IEI authorities, and have already admitted helping several youngsters to sneak into UK with passports made using fake documents. The IEI has claimed the Multani family had not turned up before them.
 
 Jt CP Shivaji Bodkhe said the police had verified some of the certificates issued by the school named in the documents, but all of them were found to be fake. “The school authorities have clearly said there were no such students in their institution. This proves the forgery done by them,” he said. “Most families involved are related to each other,” said Jt CP Bodkhe, adding that the file was cleared from his office within two days after it was referred to him following a detailed inquiry by crime branch ACP and also DCP.
 
 The then ACP, crime, Somnath Waghchaure said most of the passports and visas were genuine, but the documents used to procure them were highly questionable. “The racketeers used fake names and photographs on some documents to prove they were their children,” he said.
 
 The IEI has also sent their reports to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and   (IB).
 
 
