Jaipur: In the run-up to assembly elections due this year, chief minister   will undertake a ‘yatra’ next month covering all 200 constituencies in the state. This would be her third such ‘yatra’ since 2003 when she first took over BJP’s political reins in the state. Her previous two ‘yatras’ were ‘Parivartan Yatra’ (to bring in change) and ‘Suraj Sankalp Yatra’ (for good governance). The latest one has been named ‘Vikas Yatra’ (for development).

 Cabinet minister Gajendra Singh Khimsar said ‘Vikas Yatra’ will kick off on April 15 from the tribal division of Udaipur and would highlight achievements of the BJP government in the state. As per the tentative programme, local MLAs, MPs and ministers in charge of the districts would accompany the chief minister during the ‘yatra’ that would culminate in July, Khimsar said. 
  
 
 
 Meanwhile, the state government on Tuesday made another set of announcements, foremost being the recruitment of 1 lakh in the next four months. The decision was taken at the cabinet meeting held here on Tuesday.
 
 
 
 
 Jaipur: Parliamentary affairs minister   said, all agencies concerned have been directed to issue advertisements for the same by the third week of April.
 
 Among other decisions at the meeting, the medical college at Bhilwara would be named after Raje’s mother   and the airstrip in   developed would be named after Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya.
 
 Also, Rathore said, the cabinet has approved one-time registration of candidates with recruitment agencies like RPSC and subordinate selection boards to ensure hassle-free submission of applications.
 
 The cabinet further decided to extend reservation to exservicemen in state government jobs. Rathore said 5 per cent reservation would be given to ex-servicemen in addition to their existing 12.5 per cent quota in the subordinate services and 15 per cent quota in grade-IV government jobs.
 
 The cabinet meeting, which lasted for over five hours, decided to give two lakh agricultural power connections to farmers from April to August. Rathore said this was the highest number of agricultural connections ever to be given in a period.
 
 Rathore said the cabinet meeting also gave a green signal to the fourth phase of ‘Nyay Aapke Dwar’ at all gram panchayat headquarters from May 1to June 30 (two months). Rathore said matters relating to 16 departments, particularly the revenue maters, would be addressed at this campaign.
 
 He said, as per the Supreme Court decision, the cabinet has decided to constitute a Rajasthan Transgender Welfare Board under the chairmanship of social justice and empowerment minister. There would be nine official members and six non-official members in the 15-member board.
 
