NOIDA: Two persons were arrested on Saturday night, nearly a month after they allegedly stabbed to death a friend and set the body on fire in   village. The two were arrested after the murdered youth’s roommate shared some clues about the case with the police.

 The two have been identified as Nishant (24), who belongs to  , and Arun Kumar (25), an original resident of Moradabad. Kumar stayed in a rented accommodation in Kulesra village. Both killed Raju, who worked at a car service centre in Salarpur village, on the suspicion that he had stolen money, police said.
 
 Arun Kumar Singh, SP (city) Noida, said that on January 8, the police had found Raju’s charred body at an abandoned location in Salarpur Khadar. “The body was burnt beyond recognition and the face smashed with some heavy object. The police cremated the body after the post-mortem. His identity could not be established initially,” said Singh.
 
 A case was registered at Phase 2 police station and an investigation launched. Incidentally, on January 28, the police arrested a person named Sheelu under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. During questioning, Sheelu reportedly told the police that his roommate Raju and two of their friends, Arun and Nishant, had been missing since January 8.
 
 The police checked the records and suspected the role of Raju’s friends in the   of the unidentified youth. The officials put Kumar’s phone on surveillance and arrested him from Nagla bus stand on Saturday. The police said Kumar had admitted to killing Raju with Nishant.
 
 The accused have reportedly told the police that Nishant suspected Raju of stealing his mobile phone and Rs 5,000 from his house. He told Kumar about this and the duo planned to take revenge. On January 8 night, both of them called Raju for a drink near Salarpur Khadar, police sources said.
 
 “The two caught hold of Raju and started questioning him about the theft. When the victim denied, they stabbed him. He collapsed on the ground and bled profusely,” a source said.
 
 Shahvez Khan, the SHO of Phase 2 police station, said the accused then smashed Raju’s face with some bricks. “They set the body on fire to destroy evidence. The accused then fled with the victim’s wallet, which had Rs 1,800,” Khan said.
 
 The police said the youths had told them that Raju was an original resident of Aligarh. Though a police team tried to search for his relatives, they failed to reach them. The cops then approached Sheelu, who told them that he had got a SIM card six months ago using Raju’s Aadhaar card. When the team tried to contact the telecom company, they were apparently told that Raju’s real name was Ramu and he belonged to Farrukhabad. The cops then managed to contact his family.
 
 A murder case has been registered against the two and were produced in court.
 
 
