BENGALURU: Countering allegations made by the opposition BJP that   have increased sharply due to Congress’ policy of minority appeasement, the Karnataka government said it had cracked down on criminals and mischief-mongers irrespective of their  . Between 2013 and 2017, 670 Muslims were arrested for communal violence against 578 Hindus, it said.

 In all, 1,254 people have been arrested for communal violence in the past three years; besides Hindus and Muslims, 6 Christians were arrested.
 
 “When it comes to communal violence, we have not supported any community,” said home minister R Ramalinga Reddy. “We have arrested the perpetrators of violence irrespective of their political or religious affiliations and have filed chargesheets in these cases. We have allowed law to take its course,” Reddy added.
  
  
 The   rebuttal is aimed at blunting the BJP offensive which has intensified following the death of Hindu activist Deepak Rao in Mangaluru. Leaders of the saffron party have alleged that members of Muslim fringe groups were getting emboldened due to support from the ruling Congress which is anti-Hindu. “Congress is allowing murders for political gain,” state BJP spokesperson CT Ravi alleged.
 
 Dismissing the charge, a Congress leader said. “BJP is resorting to polarisation of votes on communal lines in the run-up to assembly elections. BJP will not speak about moral policing and communal violence triggered by Hindu groups.”
 
 
 
 The Congress has also launched a campaign on social media with the hashtag ‘#CongressCondemnsHatePolitics’.
 
 Ravi sought to turn the tables on Congress, saying: “Congress withdrew 175 cases against 1,614 members of fringe groups from minorities in 2015. Not a single case was withdrawn against Hindu activists. If Congress is claiming to be neutral, why has it selectively withdrawn cases against minorities and not Hindus? Congress will not speak about how many Hindus have been murdered and injured in communal clashes.” Muslims make up over 12% of the state’s population and constitute a substantial segment of Siddaramaiah’s votebank, he said.
 
 Reddy denied the charge, saying the government had not withdrawn cases against those booked for murder/attempt to murder or largescale damage caused to property. “The cases dropped pertain to communal tension that cause minor disruptions. Moreover, a few cases were dropped after representations were received from a few Muslim groups. No requests were made by Hindu groups,” he said.
 
 Political trackers, however, slammed both parties for indulging in communal politics. A retired bureaucrat said: “Instead of addressing problems faced by the common man, parties are...fuelling hatred.”
 
