SRINAGAR/NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi will be on a day-long visit to Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, covering all three regions of Jammu, Srinagar and Ladakh. 

 
 The visit comes in the backdrop of his government asking security forces to suspend anti-militancy operations in the state as part of a people-centric outreach coinciding with the month of Ramzaan. In his Independence Day address last year, the PM had noted that the Kashmir issue could be resolved not by bullets or abuses, but by embracing Kashmiris.
 
 Prime Minister Modi is scheduled to attend the closing ceremony of the birth centenary celebrations of the 19th Kushok Bakula Rinpoche in Leh. At the same event, he will unveil a plaque to mark the commencement of work on the   tunnel, which will connect Baltal and Minamarg.
 
 The 14-km long tunnel will be India's longest road tunnel and Asia's longest bi-directional tunnel. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by the Prime Minister, had earlier this year approved construction, operation and maintenance of this tunnel on the Srinagar-Leh section of NH-1A, at a total cost of Rs 6,800 crore. 
 
 In Srinagar, the Prime Minister will dedicate the 330 MW Kishanganga Hydropower Station to the nation at the Sher-i-Kashmir International Conference Centre (SKICC). Modi will also lay the foundation stone of Srinagar Ring Road. 
 
 The 42.1-km, four-lane road will link Galandar in West Srinagar to Sumbal in Badnipora district.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 At the General Zorawar Singh Auditorium in Jammu, the Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of Pakul Dul Power Project and Jammu Ring Road. He will also inaugurate the Tarakote Marg and ropeway of Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. The Tarakote Marg will facilitate pilgrims visiting the shrine.
 
 The ring roads in Srinagar and Jammu are aimed at reducing traffic congestion at these cities and making road travel safer and faster. 
 
 Modi will also attend the convocation of Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology in Jammu.
  
  
 
 
 
