MUMBAI: If you cannot get Uber cab in south Mumbai, you will have the option of booking a Kaali Peeli taxi from the same app.

 Sources said that Uber has for the first time tied up with Kaali Peeli drivers in SoBo -- from   to   areas -- enabling these cabs to join the app platform and provide rides to customers at normal RTO-approved fares.
 
 While announcing this, an official from the aggregator firm said : "We are still building a network of Kaali Peeli taxi operators as the service has just begun and we want more cabbies in the city to join our platform. In coming weeks, we will be able to put maximum taxis on the platform so that commuters can get affordable non-AC rides on demand.”
 
 Said another official, "There is huge demand of cabs during summer and the Kaali Peeli service will fill the demand-supply gap.” At times, you may also save money on rides upto Worli as the   will ply by the meter and at government approved rates, the official stated. 
 
 For example, a ride from Fort area to Worli, which would cost around Rs 140 for a Uber Go cab and Rs 180 for a Uber Premier cab will be priced at around Rs 120 for a Kaali Peeli taxi.
 
 The best part is -- the Kaali Peelis will arrive at your doorstep for pickup and you will not have to go to the street to hail these cabs. It will also bring down cases of refusals, the official stated. Said an Uber spokesperson : "Mumbai's Kaali Peelis are a critical component for the city’s mobility needs. Ride sharing technologies like Uber can help bring thousands of Kaali Peeli drivers into the digital fold and improve their service delivery/ efficiency and augment their earnings potential." There are plans to extend the service beyond SoBo and in the western and eastern suburbs in near future.
 
 Several Kaali Peeli drivers said they were already attached to the Ola platform, and with Uber also welcoming them, it could enhance their income potential. "In the past, there was threat from aggregator cabs and our monthly incomes had dipped. But with this revenue model, we can operate as Kaali Peelis or aggregator cabs as per our convenience and maximise earnings,'' said G K Sharma, a Kaali Peeli taxi driver.
 
