Amaravati: Officials of the water resources ministry on Monday informed chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu that 53% of the   project works have been completed till date. 

 The officials also said the state government had spent Rs 12,915 crore on the project up to December 31, 2017.
 
 Briefing the   about the project during the weekly review meeting on Polavaram and other irrigation projects, the officials said that 71% of excavation work related to spillway and spill channel was completed. They further said that 39% of the head works were completed. Works related to the other main components of the dam that have shown consistent progress are the diaphragm wall with 66% completion, radial gates with 58% and the jet grouting for the coffer dam with 78%.
 
 The right main canal has registered good progress with 91 per cent completion while 60 per cent of the left canal works are completed. This week, 0.82 lakh cubic metre of earthwork has was excavated, and 5,314 cubic metres of concrete was laid for the spillway and stilling basin. They further said that 18.8 metres of the diaphragm wall was also completed this week.
 
 Referring to works related to the other projects, the officials said that the Pogonda Reservoir work, the Pedapalem Lift Irrigation Scheme, the Chinasana Lift Irrigation Scheme, the Owk Tunnel, Gorakallu Balancing Reservoir and the Pulikanuma Lift Irrigation Scheme were completed and are ready for inauguration.
 
 By the end of this month, the Marala Reservoir, the Cherlopally Reservoir, the Madakasira Branch Canal, the Kandula Obul Reddy Gundlakamma Reservoir and the Pulakurthy Lift Irrigation Scheme will be ready for inauguration, officials said.
 
 The main civil works of the Nellore Barrage and the Sangam Barrage, the SH 31 road work, the Vamsadhara Project Stage 2 Phase 2, the Adavipalli Reservoir and the interlinking of Vamsadhara and Nagavalli rivers, are projects that are scheduled to be completed by March, 2018.
 
 The officials presented alternative proposals for the interlinking of Godavari and Penna to the CM during the meeting about irrigation projects of the state.
 
 
