UP government has decided to develop the proposed   as a full-fledged  . It will have at least four runways and facilities, including a  , and cargo and aircraft   (MRO) system.

 The announcement was made on the second and concluding day of the Investors’ Summit on Thursday.
 
 Director, UP civil aviation department, Surya Pal Gangwar said the plan to develop the Jewar airport as a state-of-the-art aviation hub was being worked out. “We hope to complete the planning and get other formalities completed soon,” he said in a session on ‘Civil aviation: emerging opportunities’ at the summit.
 
 Jewar airport, perceived as one of the key projects to ease air traffic at IGI airport Delhi, will come up on 3,000 acres land on a public-private-partnership model.
 
 The proposed facilities, experts say, would add to the commercial advantage of the airport and nearby region.
 
 Union aviation minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju, who was the key speaker in the session, said the Jewar airport has to be developed within six years. “Various studies have shown that the IGI airport will get fully congested by 2024. Therefore, Jewar airport project needs to be expedited. It is not only in the interest of Delhi but also UP and other states,” he said. Raju admitted that the project got delayed due to lack of coordination between the Centre and the UP government in the past.
 
 The project also got stuck following a clause in the previous aviation policy that prohibited setting up of a new airport within 150km from an existing one. Under the policy, GMR, which operates the IGI airport, had the right of first refusal for any airport within 150km radius.
 
 GMR has now evinced interest in developing Jewar airport as well. GMR director K Narayan Rao confirmed that the company will be participate in development of the Jewar airport.
 
 Emphasizing on the Centre-state coordination for development of aviation infrastructure, Rao said that a central facility coordination committee should be set up to speed up the process. He also stressed on the need of having Metro rail connectivity before Jewar airport is completed.
 
