KOLKATA: Calcutta University and   were on Wednesday shortlisted for the final round of the selection process for the Institutions of Eminence status to be awarded by the Centre. The two are the first among state-run universities in Bengal to make it to the shortlist. The winners will be announced next month.

 IIT-Kharagpur has also made it to the shortlist and some other central institutes from Bengal are likely to appear on the list too.
 
  and   vice-chancellors Sonali Chakraborti Bandopadhyay and Suranjan Das confirmed they had made it to the final round. “We have received a call as well as a letter from  , informing us about the good news. We need to make a presentation before the committee in Delhi on April 3,” said CU vice-chancellor Chakraborty Bandopadhyay.” JU VC Suranjan Das said, “We are happy to be shortlisted and, if we attain the status, it will be a recognition of JU’s excellence.” “It is a matter of pride even to be among those shortlisted for the final round,” a JU physics teacher said.
 
 Twenty institutes—10 public and 10 private—will be awarded the coveted status. “The shortlisted institutes—staterun universities, central institutions, B-schools and others from various categories—will vie to be among the toppers that will be awarded a fat amount for the next couple of years,” said a source. “These institutes will have to give a presentation before a selection committee. They can’t use more than 10 slides in 20 minutes to cover the given topics, which will be followed by 10 minutes of discussion,” said the source. He added that the shortlisted institutes stood a chance to be among India’s best higher education institutions that will then be primed to have a shot at international glory.
 
 To select the final names, UGC has set up a four-member panel with former chief election commissioner of India N Gopalaswami at the helm. The other members are Harvard Business School professor Tarun Khanna, IIM Lucknow exdirector   and University of Houston System chancellor  .
 
 During the presentation before the selection committee, JU and CU will have to highlight their strength, their history and journey, vision plan, implementation and financial plan. “Under the vision plan, the university has to mention the disciplines offered, number of students, teacher strength, administrative highlights, fund utilisation and future plans,” another official said.
 
 
