Chennai: A landmark in the city that represents the pride of Tamil heritage,  , in its miniature form, will go global when it is inaugurated in   in May. The structure shaped like a temple chariot, built in memory of  , celebrates the poet-saint and promotes the ancient Tamil scripture  . 

 It is said to be the first Valluvar Kottam to be established overseas. It will be a centre for learning Tirukkural and is now getting its final touches at Thaton, a town with a large Tamils population in the state of Mon, in erstwhile Burma. Interestingly, constructions for establishing the Valluvar Kottam began more than 25 years ago but could be completed only in 2018.
 
 Speaking to TOI, S Parthipan secretary of the Myanmar Thaton Valluvar Kottam Inauguration Committee said the structure will be set up about 200km from the national capital Yangon, in an area covering 9,600sqft. “Construction of the Valluvar Kottam began in 1990. It will be officially inaugurated on May 1 and we have invited people from Malaysia, Singapore and India for the opening ceremony,” he told TOI from Myanmar. He further said Thirukkural would be taught to Tamil children in their country. Noting that classes were already being conducted for students to teach Thirukkural, he said the centre would emerge as a platform to learn Tamil language as Tamil is not taught in local schools. “The Myanmar government has supported us for building the Vallur Kottam by providing construction material at subsidised rates,” he added.
 
 Myanmar has a population of about 10 lakh Tamils, who are spread across the Southeast Asian nation, who are largely engaged in agriculture and business. Though a majority of Tamils can speak in their mother tongue, only 25% of them can read and write in the language. “Thaton alone has a population of 15,000 Tamils and this centre would help in a big way to promote Tamil language among the locals,” Parthipan said.
 
 Modelled on the Valluvar Kottam at Nungambakkam in Chennai, the Valluvar Kottam project in Myanmar was initiated by Pa Ko Ramasamy. It has a (temple) chariot attached to a two-storey structure. The entrance of the building has three tombs representing the three divisions of Thirukkural (Aram, Porul and Inbam) and a conference hall. A 5ft high granite statue of Thiruvallur in a seated position is installed on the second floor.
 
 The MTVKIC Tamil Nadu representative R A Balan, who donated the Thiruvallur statue for Valluvar Kottam at Thaton, said the statue was shipped 20 years ago. “The statue was made at Mamallapuram and ferried to Myanmar two decades ago. People gave a rousing welcome to the Thiruvallur statue when it reached Thaton. In fact, the deputy endowments minister of Myanmar had participated in the welcome ceremony when the country was under military rule,” he recalled. Pointing out that the official inauguration of Valluvar Kottam would mark a significant event after democracy blossomed in Myanmar, he said the Valluvar Kottam is a secular centre. “People across religions can learn Thirukkural there,” said Balan, who was born in erstwhile Burma, but moved to Tamil Nadu.
 
 
