NEW DELHI: With the Asian Waterbird Census ( ) 2018 currently underway in Delhi-NCR, the findings of the first few days at   have revealed that the bird count has almost doubled since 2017. There has also been an increase in the number of species at the sanctuary. 

 This year’s count at Okhla Bird Sanctuary revealed 11,622 water birds as compared to 6,183 birds, which were recorded last year. In addition, the number of different species has also risen to 63 as compared to 53 in 2017. These include nine species that fall under the IUCN red-list of threatened species. The Okhla Bird Sanctuary is one of the 466 Important Bird Area sites located in India. 
 
 The census was carried out by Wetlands International South Asia, in collaboration with Gautam Buddh Nagar Forest Division, and a team of 30 members from different universities and Bombay Natural History Society. AWC Delhi state-coordinator and ecologist TK Roy said that the census has also revealed sighting of two uncommon species at the sanctuary this year — the northern lapwing and the common shelduck. 
 
 
  
 “This a good sign for the ecology of the area. Both birds are not very common to the area. In fact, the northern lapwing has been sighted in India after several years. The count of species has also risen this year and there has been a steady growth in the numbers over the past two years. This shows that there has been a revival at Okhla,” Roy told TOI. In 2016, 3,113 birds were recorded at Okhla, which consisted of 46 different species. The same number has increased to 11,622 this year, consisting of 63 different species. 
 
 The oriental darter, painted stork, black-headed Ibis, common pochard, greater spotted eagle, ferruginous duck, wooly- necked stork, northern lapwing and the river lapwing are among the IUCN red-list threatened species sighted at Okhla this year. Roy attributed the considerable increase in number of bird count to more northern shovellers arriving at Okhla in 2017, along with a mixed flock of black-headed and brown-headed gulls. “These birds would earlier spend their day around Yamuna and come to Okhla at night. This year, however, they are staying at Okhla all day. This has resulted in an increase in the overall count of birds,” Roy added. 
 
 The numbers could have been even more, Roy said, but for the repair work at Okhla barrage in October, which saw a number of waders leave the sanctuary. The census, which will continue till January 21, will also cover other locations like the Yamuna floodplains, Delhi zoo, Sanjay Lake, Najafgarh drain and Surajpur wetlands.
