BENGALURU: Addiction to the internet is not just a serious  , but also affects the   of  , a study conducted by Nimhans has found. The study found that excessive use of the internet has resulted in procrastinating, loss in productivity and erratic sleeping, eating and personal hygiene habits of working professionals. Those hooked to the internet also tend to spend less time with family and friends.

 The qualitative study, ‘Internet Addiction at Workplace and its Implication for Workers’ Lifestyle: Exploration from Southern India’ was conducted on 250 professionals in private firms and government offices. The participants were aged between 25 and 35 years. For a year, the screen time of these individuals was analysed.
 
 The study revealed that 9.2% of the participants were ‘at risk’ of addiction to the internet. While pornography ate into working and leisure time of some, for others it was online gaming, social networking and online shopping.
 
 The study, conducted by Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma, additional professor, Service for Healthy use of Technology (SHUT) Clinic, Apoorva Shrivatsava, research scholar, and Palaniappan Marimuthu, researcher, was conducted after a spike in addiction cases was noticed at the SHUT clinic. One case pertained to a 25-year-old private sector employee in Bengaluru, who was addicted to porn sites on the internet. The results of the study have been published in the February 2018 edition of the Asian Journal of Psychiatry.
 
 “To overcome boredom at the workplace, young working professionals are getting hooked to internet for fun,” said Dr Sharma. “But this has a deep impact on their health, as it prevents them from indulging in physical exercise like going out for walk or relaxing with colleagues. It also increases their screen time at the workplace.”
 
 The 9.2 per cent who were found to be at risk of addiction, also scored high on using mobile phones for reasons other than work. They also scored high for the presence of psychological distress — a result of higher use of technology.
 
 “This is a worrisome trend,” said Dr Sharma. “Those suffering from   feel that it is a way of relaxing at the workplace. This isn’t good since professional working hours are wasted on personal browsing. This in turn affects productivity. Also, those addicted do not indulge in physical activity which would have a beneficial effect on the body.”
 
 Apart from the loss of productivity at work, there were other serious health implications too. The study revealed that excessive internet use had adversely impacted the general socio-occupational functioning of individuals, especially disturbance in sleep due to late-night log-ins, erratic meal schedules, poor personal hygiene and family relationships.
 
 In the last two years, Nimhans has come across about 15 cases with severe addiction at workplace. However, researchers say this number is only tip of the iceberg. 
 
  
  
 
 
