After great returns in 2017, it is time for equity   to moderate their expectations. Real estate has a bad year, with demonetisation, RERA, the Benami Property Act and  , and the new year will not be any different. The debt market was also lacklustre.   remained relatively stable in 2017, and experts believe the trend may continue. Here are ten financial moves that can work for you in 2018.

 
 
 The equity portion of your portfolio may have pushed up the overall returns in 2017. Now it is time to rebalance the portfolio by encashing the gains made in equities. Reducing the equity exposure might seem counter-intuitive in these bullish times. But experts insist that it is prudent to realign the portfolio and restore the original asset allocation. “It is essential to review one’s asset allocation on a regular basis and, if required, rebalance the portfolio to their original weights,” says Radhika Gupta, CEO, Edelweiss Mutual Fund.
 
 
 
 The   rose 28 per cent during 2017 but mid- and small-cap stocks did even better. Experts warn that the mid- and small-cap have become overvalued and investors should avoid them now. The BSE Midcap has a PE of 46.7 while BSE Smallcap has a PE of 114.5. Over the past few months, several mid- and small-cap funds in this category have restricted inflows and some are accepting only SIPs. “From the risk-reward perspective, large-cap funds make more sense right now,” says Sankaran Naren, Executive Director and CIO, ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund.
 
 
 
 Debt funds gave insipid returns in 2017, much to the disappointment of investors who had got used to double-digit returns in the preceding 1-2 years. Rising crude oil prices and concerns over meeting the fiscal deficit target made the bond market uneasy, causing a spike in bond yields from 6.4 per cent in January 2017 to 7.3 per cent in December. Experts say investors should stick to short-term debt funds which are not very volatile and could give stable returns. 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Most investors have made good money from stocks, now it is time to book profits. There’s no need to time the market. Simply sell your stocks to book longterm capital gains, and then buy back the same scrips. This will reset the acquisition date of your holdings and allow you to book short-term losses if the stock prices recede from these levels. Such short-term loss can be set off against other taxable capital gains and even carried forward for up to eight financial years.
 
 
 
 The ultra low-cost structure of the NPS makes it one of the cheapest marketlinked products available to Indian investors. Besides, the NPS allows partial withdrawals for specific purposes. Also, one can remain invested after retirement and stagger the withdrawals over the next 10 years. This can significantly reduce the tax impact. Opening an NPS account is now a completely paperless exercise. It takes barely 20-25 minutes to open an account if you bank account and PAN are linked to your Aadhaar.
 
 
 
 Till last year, if a property was put out on rent, the entire interest paid on the loan could be claimed as a deduction. High-net worth investors used this provision to cut their tax liability. A Rs 1 crore loan taken at 8.75 per cent for 20 years could fetch a deduction of Rs 8.67 lakh and potentially reduce the borrower’s tax liability by almost Rs 2.5 lakh in the first year. However, last year’s   capped the total deduction to Rs 2 lakh. So, instead of putting money into fixed deposits, PPF and debt funds, prepay your debts. 
  
 
 
 
 
 If you believe you have covered your risks with a basic health plan, think again. “These illnesses have prolonged treatment periods and ancillary costs, which are not compensated by a basic health cover,” says Mukesh Kumar, Executive Director, HDFC ERGO General  . Healthcare costs are rising very fast and you need to have a critical illness cover to complement your basic plan. You can buy a critical illness plan as a standalone policy or combine it as a rider with life or health plans.
 
 
 
 Gold ETFs were once considered a great way to invest in the metal. This is no longer true. Sovereign gold bonds can give better returns than gold funds. Both the products are linked to gold prices and their returns will be based on the metal’s performance. However, while gold ETFs charge around 1 per cent per annum as expense ratio, gold bonds offer an interest of around 2.5 per cent per annum. So, gold bonds will generate 3.5 per cent more returns per annum than gold ETFs. 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 The recent crash in bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies is a wakeup call for investors. “Normal investors should stay away bit coins as they will get it wrong the buy and sell timing horribly wrong,” says Nilesh Shah, Managing Director, Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund. “Bitcoin is a classic case of the fear of missing out on making money. Some young techies are still chasing it,” says Tarun Birani, Founder and CEO, TBNG Capital Advisers.
 
 
 
 Increasingly, people are turning to taking utilitarian products on rent which is both cost-effective and convenient. Given that moving to different cities or localities within a city has become a routine affair, especially for young professionals, renting furniture is gaining popularity. Taking a set of basic furniture and appliances on rent will cost you Rs 10,000-15,000 a month. Rentals also come with free delivery and installation, relocation, cleaning and maintenance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
