NEW DELHI: Calling the public outburst of four senior-most judges of the   as “unprecedented”,   chief   demanded that the death of judge B M Loya, who had presided over the Sohrabuddin fake encounter case, be investigated under the supervision of the apex court.

 
 
 The Congress president’s decision to speak to the media came after the senior judges had held a press conference to claim that Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra was being selective in allocating cases to the SC benches and said the Loya case was one such that had been flagged with the CJI.
 
 Rahul called for an SIT on the Loya case under the supervision of senior most judges of the apex court. The party also said that full bench of the apex court should look into the issues flagged by the dissenting justices, endorsing the plea that senior benches should hear cases of national import.
 
 “They (four judges) have mentioned there is a threat to democracy and it needs to be looked into carefully. They have also made a point about judge Loya’s case. That is something that should be investigated properly. It needs to be examined at the highest level of the Supreme Court,” said Rahul.
 
 The pointed reference to the Loya case is intended to put BJP on the back foot as its party president   was an accused in the Sohrabuddin case before being discharged. BJP has insisted that the case was political in nature and had been framed with an eye on the 2014 Lok Sabha election.
 
 Rahul’s statement -- as also that of AICC which detailed the nature of party’s concerns about the developments in the SC – followed a huddle between the Congress chief and legal eagles of the party. The group discussed threadbare the issues raised by the four judges. The decision to raise the ante on the Loya case is clearly intended to highlight political ramifications of developments in the SC.
 
 Some accounts have claimed that the judge’s death occurred under mysterious circumstances and there have been demands for a probe into the circumstances of his death. Congress would believe that developments on the issue can help in pinning down the ruling party leadership.
 
 Dwelling on the issue, AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala read out a statement on behalf of Congress which said, “In the PIL concerning the death of  , we believe that the matter must be entrusted to the senior most Judges of the Supreme Court who should ensure a thorough and impartial investigation of the case by an independent SIT.”
 
 The discussions to finalise the Congress stand on the developments in the SC included P Chidambaram, Kapil Sibal, Vivek Tankha, Salman Khursheed and Manish Tewari.
 
 A senior lawyer of the Congress said the focus of the in-house discussion was on the grievance listed by four justices that the CJI was “selectively” assigning the cases. The issue of judge Loya too came up.
 
 Congress also trained its guns at the Modi government on “Memorandum of Procedure” for judicial appointments. Surjewala said, “The non-finalisation of the Memorandum of Procedure has left nearly 40% of the sanctioned posts of the judges vacant, leading to delay in justice delivery.”
 
 
 
