For Canadian rapper  , aka Webster,   and   are more than just words. In the city recently for a performance,   spoke to us about positivity through hip hop and how it is more than just aggression and violence. Excerpts…

 
 
 I started rapping in 1995, but I have been listening to hip hop and rap since I was 11 years old. I was impressed with what the American rappers were doing at that time. I began singing their text and realised that I could also rap. For me, rapping is an outlet to express myself, my imagination and creativity. I could’ve done something else, but for me, it was easier to write. So, I kept on writing and rapping.
 
 
 
 My biggest inspirations were rappers Nas and   Clan. They inspired me because they rapped about many subjects and they would rap about history and philosophy. They made me realise that I could rap about history, and that I could be a rapper and a nerd at the same time.
 
 
 
 It’s been a constant evolution for me. When I began rapping, it was mainly to give myself a voice, which I didn’t have due to various reasons, such as where I lived (since I was a black kid in a white neighbourhood). This and many other factors made me start rapping. I wanted people to hear what I had to say. I still use rap to express myself, but I also rap because it allows me to be creative — with words, ideas and images. Now, I rap about things that will not just uplift people, but me as well. I rap about positivity.
 
 
 
 When I was young, I used to rap about social issues, because I was angry. I used to call my rap ‘terror rhythm’, because it used to be aggressive. It was easier for me to go to the darkness. Instead of building things, I used to rap about destroying things. So, I changed the way I saw things. Now it’s about positivity. I decided to rap about positive things, which is harder to do. I decided to take the hard path and rap about positive things, which we don’t hear that often. It’s like a prayer, a mantra; you repeat it over and over again. I want to repeat positive things and uplift myself and others.
 
 
 
 I feel it is underrated. People, including rappers, still think that rap is about money and a lot of machismo. People also think that is negative and about the streets. But they don’t realise that the streets have a positive side, too. It’s not always about violence and money. Streets are like a community. For me, rap is an art form and a literary movement — its poetry. But I don’t think people perceive it as such.
 
 
 
 Rappers can bring good things through schools and also by addressing other rappers in a meaningful way. We are often in the spotlight because of something bad. People should just take a second to listen to us, because hip hop is so dense. There are so many things said in a single hip hop verse, and so many layers of understanding, which makes hip hop wealthy and fascinating. For many rappers, it is all about making money and they miss out on what rap is all about. They stick only to the commercial side.
 
 
 
 Most of the times, my interactions revolve around my workshops on creative writing. I show them the mechanics of rap and hip hop, and how to play with words and ideas. I feel that students, especially teens, have a ‘don’t care’ attitude and they just go for it.
 
 
 
 I like the vibe that the people give off here. People here are very kind and took time to talk and understand my music. Sometime, you go to a country and feel that the people are very cold, but people here are extremely warm and friendly. I am a fan of history and I loved that history and culture are so deep-rooted here. So, I’ve enjoyed every bit of it. I visited temples and museums, which I thoroughly enjoyed. I know it’s a cliché, but the food here is wonderful.
 
