JAIPUR BHOPA: Rajasthan government on Friday said it will file a review petition in the Supreme Court against its verdict nullifying the ban imposed on Padmaavat. 

 Parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore said, "We will approach the SC with a review petition. A committee formed by the state government will discuss and review the SC order in a meeting on Saturday." Besides Rathore, home minister Gulab Chand Kataria and senior officers of home and law departments will attend the meeting.
 
 Sources said the government will also discuss other options apart from the review petition. "We respect the SC's order. However, in a scenario where a community is threatening to be violent, asserting that the film is going to affect its sentiments, we will have to explore possibilities to maintain law and order in the state," said a senior officer of law department requesting anonymity.
 
  Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan broke his silence on the issue but did specify whether his government would go the Rajasthan way. "We have told the state advocate general to study the SC verdict on the film. After this, we will see if we have to say something in the court. We have not taken any decision so far," Chouhan told reporters. 
 
 Interestingly, despite all the talk against the movie, the MP government never issued a formal order banning its release. On November 20 last year, Chouhan had assured a Rajput delegation that the movie wouldn't be released until corrections were made "as per public demand". After the censor board cleared the film for release, following changes in the script and title, reporters asked the CM on January 12 if it would be released in MP. "Jo kaha tha, woh hoga (What I had said, will happen)," he had replied.
 
 This came even as Meerut-based Thakur leader Abhishek Som, who had earlier offered 5 crore to anyone who beheads   and Deepika Padukone, on Friday said the film director and actor will be "buried dead or alive in the graves that he has dug up for them" in his ancestral Kalindi village in Meerut, if the movie is released here. 
 
 
