GURUGRAM:   employees are all set to go on  , demanding transfer of surplus staff in the development body to newly constituted Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). Of 550 Huda employees, 350 have been identified as surplus staff after most responsibilities of the development body were handed over to   and MCG in the past one year.

 Huda employees, who don’t want to be posted out of the city, alleged that at a time when GMDA took up more responsibilities, it was not ready to employ the surplus staff of Huda. 
 
 Notably, the maintenance work that was earlier handled by Huda has been transferred to MCG and the development work is now being looked after by GMDA.
 
 The   say that according to the rules, Huda staff should be accommodated in the newly formed GMDA which has not accommodated any of them in divisions 2 and 3. Also, a few Huda workers were shifted to MCG at the time of transferring sectors. Though these workers are working for MCG, their salaries are still being disbursed by Huda. The employees say salaries for such workers should be released by the corporation.
 
 The surplus employees now fear that they would be transferred to other districts where Huda is still functional. As many as 30 outsourced employees by Huda may also face termination.
 
 “GMDA has taken up our work but not our workers. Now, we fear we will be shifted to other districts because GMDA is not accommodating Huda workers. Instead, it has been functioning with outsourced employees though Huda has surplus permanent government employees. How is this making any sense?” asked Mukesh Tanwar, district convener, Huda Workers’ Union.
 
 The union members met GMDA chief executive officer and Huda administrator on Thursday. They have submitted their demands to the officials. “We have given them 10 days’ time to resolve the issue and transfer us to GMDA. Some of the employees are in their 50s or nearing retirement. Is this an age for them to be transferred to other districts? If they do not resolve the problem, we will go on a state-wide strike end of this month,” said Ramnivas Thakran, district convener, Huda Workers’ Union.
 
 Asked about the concerns of employees, a senior Huda official said, “We will hold a coordination committee meeting soon on this topic. It will have CEO of GMDA, chief administrator of Huda and MCG commissioner. A decision on surplus employees’ transfer will be taken in that.”
 
