MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has ruled that a   cannot charge an admission fee to admit a new member. Twenty-five years after a SoBo society charged Rs15 lakh for admitting a new member, Justice   said that amount was wrongly charged. 

 The judge held the housing society could not have made rules to charge five per cent of sale price of a flat when an apartment is sold. “It is important to bear in mind that the demand of admission fees in the sum of five per cent of the sale price for the purpose of admitting a new member against purchase of a flat, has no legal sanction or propriety under the scheme of the Maharashtra Cooperative Society Act, Rules and byelaws,” said Justice Gupte. 
 
 “Membership of a cooperative society is an open membership. It is not possible to put any restriction on such membership save and except as may be provided under the (law)... If any person were to be refused admission on account of nonpayment of a certain fee or charge, such fee or charge must be legally justified so as to give rise to such sufficient cause,” the judge said. The court said there was no provision of law that enables a housing society to pass a resolution to charge admission fees. The society’s lawyer claimed the fee was justified as it protected members’ interest against sharp increase in monthly maintenance as a result of general inflation and increase in government levies and insurance premium. The court rejected the contention. “That may at best be a psychological justification for passing of such resolution, but it still is no legal justification. In law, it must be shown that the society, which is a creature of statute, has the power to take the particular action complained of within the framework of such statute or otherwise under law. 
 
 As far as the present case is concerned, I see no such power having the sanction of law,” added the judge. A resolution was passed in 1993 by   in January 1993 to charge admission fee of five per cent of the sale price for admitting new members. In July 1993, following sale of a flat in the society, the outgoing member paid the admission fee of around Rs15 lakh. In 1999, the newly-added member challenged the fee before the cooperative court and sought a refund. A cooperative court ordered the society to refund the amount along with six per cent interest per annum, which was upheld by the appellate court. The society filed an appeal before the HC. 
 
 The society claimed there was a delay in the plea filed by the new member, and further the amount was actually paid by the ex- member. The HC rejected the contentions and said a dispute with regard to a co-operative society can be raised within six years. The court further held that what was important was on whose behalf the amount was paid. “What is important in law is not the identity of the person, who actually makes a payment, but the identity of the person on whose behalf the payment is made... So long as the payment is to the account of the new member, it is to be treated as payment by the new member,” the court said.
