Kollywood has witnessed several star kids making their debut as heroes, over the years;   being the latest to join the fray. However, of late, many celebrity kids are foraying into tinsel town not just as protagonists, but by making waves along with their fathers, on screen. Movie buffs and fans have a whale of a time watching their favourite stars share screen space with their progeny. Here are a few father-son combos that were seen for the first time on screen recently...

 
 
 The makers of Tik Tik Tik have been providing enough surprises to movie buffs right from the time it was officially announced. The project, which acquired its title from the yesteryear movie starring Kamal Haasan, first made headlines for its genre — claiming it’s the first space film in Asia. Later, the makers revealed that Ravi’s son, Aarav, is playing a crucial role in the film. Though the makers have kept Aarav’s appearance hidden in both, the teaser and trailer, the kid seems to have been making the right noises in what is supposed to be the biggest film in his father’s career.
 
  
 
 Vijay’s daughter   made a surprise entry in the runaway hit Theri which released in 2016. Though it was Meena’s daughter Nainika who was seen throughout the film as the actor’s daughter, Divya appeared towards the end and delighted her father’s fans. The star’s son, Sanjay, too, had shared screen space with him in the 2009 release Vettaikkaran. Sanjay made a brief appearance in the movie’s intro song, which was quite a rage back then. The boy danced along with his father, sending Thalapathy fans into a tizzy.
 
  
 
 The actor, known for his versatile roles, has always kept a low profile with regard to his personal life. However, his son Surya was seen in Naanum Rowdy Thaan, in which the child played the younger Sethupathi. Surya was also recently seen along with Sethupathi on the set of his upcoming film, Junga. Even though there are no confirmed reports of Surya acting in Junga, pictures from the set, doing the social media rounds, hint at the kid having donned the greasepaint again.
 
  
 
 The superstar of   has quite a number of fans in Tamil Nadu, too. Mahesh Babu’s son Gautam made his debut with the critically-acclaimed 1: Nenokkadine, a psychological thriller, which released four years ago. Though Gautam played a young Mahesh in the movie, there was a crucial scene where both of them appeared together in one frame. His fans couldn’t have asked for more! 
 
  
 It was only a couple of days ago that director Suseenthiran announced the debut of Soori’s son in his current film, Angelina. He took to Twitter to reveal that a scene was shot with both, Soori and Sarvan, and that it was a gratifying experience for him, as he is someone who loves shooting with kids. Interestingly, Soori forayed into filmdom with Suseenthiran’s debut vehicle Vennila Kabaddi Kuzhu. It will be interesting to see what the filmmaker, who has handled various genres, has in store for the kid in this project, which features a host of youngsters, too. 
 
  
 
