KOLKATA: Uniformed attendants, automated parking barriers and large digital clocks at the entry and exit gates of the airport — the agency overseeing parking at   will come back to work with a slew of improvements when the new six-lane exit bay becomes operational by the end of this month. Employees of SS Enterprise had stayed away from work since December 17, 2017, after four attendants and the manager of the agency were arrested for allegedly assaulting actors Koushik and Riddhi Sen when they complained of extortion in the name of parking-fee collection.

 TOI had reported on December 21 that   had made a slew of suggestions to the airport authorities to minimize logjam at the exit kiosks and ensure there are no brawls between parking fee collectors and motorists. The suggestions included uniform for the attendants, installation of two digital clocks at entry and exit gates, deployment of attendants at the end of the car queue and installation of automated parking barriers. 
 
 “We were new when we started operations in Kolkata and, thus, encountered several complaints. However, now we are heading for a fresh start by agreeing to all the stipulations and suggestions set by the police and the airport authorities. There will be uniforms, badges and details of all our personnel with the police. There will be no more complaints,” said Adhir Jana, the manager of the agency. 
 
 Jana said with two digital clocks at the entry and exit bays, there would be no complaints of fudging the 10-minute free time allowed between entry and exit before the Rs 100 parking fee is levied. “The automated barriers will ensure all cars stop at the booth and our men wouldn’t have to run after cars. Also, all our men will be in uniform with badges for easy recognition,” said Jana. 
 
 “The logjam happened because cars had to queue up only along three exit lanes. Now that the number of lanes will increase, logjams will also decrease,” said Jana.
 
 Over the last few months, several passengers had alleged being held up in long queues at the exit plaza and then charged Rs 100 for exceeding the free time limit. If a motorist refused to pay, bouncers deployed by the agency would reportedly rough them up. 
 
 “We have been asking the company to rejoin whenever they want. If they want to resume fee collection when the six-lane exit bay becomes operational by the end of this month, they are welcome to do so,” said Atul Dikshit, the Kolkata airport director.
 
  
  
 
  
 
