MOHALI: The role of four more guards of Nayagaon’s Forest Hill Golf and Country Club is under police scanner in the investigation into how a   employee’s body ended up in a pond at the resort.

 After one of the three arrested security men revealed these new names to the investigators on Friday, police summoned these men for recording their statements. The special investigating ream (SIT) of inspector general of police (crime)  , superintendent of police (detective) Harbir Singh Atwal, deputy superintendent of police (DSP)  , inspector Deepinder Singh, Nayagaon station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Bharat Bhushan, and detectives from Mohali visited the tank from where the body was said to have been fished before being dumped on the Pinjore-Baddi road.
 
 SIT chief Shashi Prabha said: “We have inspected the spot at the club and visited the house where the victim is reported to have shared drinks with his friends before reaching the resort. We have nothing more to reveal.” Police said that the SIT chief had also questioned many employees at the resort. When the three arrested guards were grilled in police custody, one of them, Tarsem Chand, said they four more guards had helped them tie up the body and wrap it with a sheet. The arrested guards, Gurvinder Singh Bains, Balwinder Singh, and Tarsem Chand, will be brought to the court again on Saturday when their police remand gets over.
 
 CCTV footage fails to give any clue
 
 S HO Bharat Bhushan said: “Tarsem Chand gave us the names of four more guards—Ramesh Kumar, Dharampal, Devinder Kumar, and Ramesh Chand—and said they had helped in covering the body before dumping it inside the tank. The guards have been summoned to the police station. The SIT also went to the Pinjore-Baddi road form where the body was recovered based on the disclosure statement of the three men under arrest. It found no evidence to explain how the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) worker Abhishek entered the resort.
 
 The team scanned footage from the resort’s surveillance cameras but found no evidence of Abhishek’s entering or exiting the resort, says a source in police. “Club owner lieutenant colonel B S Sandhu is yet to appear before police.” senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal said. “We are still looking out for him.”
 
 Digvijay Jamwal, corporate head of Sandhu’s immigration agency WWICS, said: “I don’t maintain the record of the resort’s employees, so it’s not possible for me to confirm the names of the four guards.”
 
