BANGARMAU: Health authorities have taken action against 73 quacks by sealing their clinics in various localities of   tehsil in   district following spread of HIV in three villages due to alleged treatment by a quack.

 “As many 73 clinics of alleged quacks have been sealed. An FIR is being registered against three quacks while notices are being served to 44 others, who have been unable to produce degrees or relevant documents for running clinics,” Unnao chief medical officer (CMO) Dr S P Chowdhary told TOI on Saturday.
 
 “If ‘doctors’ are not registered with the Medical Council of India, they have no right to practice medicine. We are taking action on complaints of quackery,” the CMO added.
 
 An official spokesman said while some of these quacks were operating from their houses, others had opened clinics.
 
 “Officials have been asked to verify the credentials of the quacks who run advertisements on local TV channels in the district. The health department teams will also request cable operators to stop advertisements promoting tantriks and quacks,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, HIV affected people of the three villagers of Bangarmau — Prem Ganj, Chakmir and Kirmidiyapur — have demanded setting up of an antiretroviral therapy (ART) link centre at Bangarmau community health centre (CHC) to facilitate cheap and affordable treatment.
 
 At present, patients are being treated at the ART centre of Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial (GSVM) medical college in Kanpur. ART is a therapy that improves the life quality of HIV patients with treatment that maximally suppresses the HIV virus. 
 
 “My 10-year-old daughter is HIV positive,” said Vinay (name changed), describing how his entire family makes a three-hour-long journey from   where they live to the medical college in Kanpur every month. 
 
 “My daughter depends on antiretroviral therapy given at the ART centre to keep living. We can’t afford the fare any longer. It would be better if the authorities establish a link centre at Bangarmau CHC itself,” said Vinay.
 
 His views were echoed by Sudarshan (name changed), a truck driver and a father of a 12-year-old HIV positive son. Residents of Chakmir, Sudarshan and his wife travel to Kanpur every month for treatment of their son and the bus ride costs Rs 800 per trip. 
 
 “The amount spent on travelling to the nearest ART centre should be reimbursed. Moreover, the government should set up a link centre here, else I would have no option but to skip treatment,” he said.
 
 Local social activists said what is worrying is that of the total 58 HIV positive cases identified so far during screening in the three villages, only 25 have visited the ART centre.
 
 “ART treatment can’t cure  . There is still no outright cure for the disease, and it does not go away by itself. But ARTs do slow down the damage that the virus does to the immune system, and allow people to live long, productive lives like everyone else, without succumbing to the disease,” said an activist.
 
 A senior health official at ART centre, meanwhile, said there were several reasons why patients avoid medication. “They usually do not want to reveal their condition to their near and dear ones. Many skip the treatment out of the fear that others will find out about their condition,” he said. 
 
 At least 58 persons tested positive for HIV in Bangarmau after a quack allegedly used infected syringes to treat scores of his patients. Of these, 33 were detected at a blood donation camp on February 3 while 25 had come to light last year.
 
 
