BHOPAL: Reiterating his support for simultaneous   and state assembly elections, chief minister   said on Sunday that his government would form a committee to student the feasibility of holding elections at the same time.

 “If something concrete comes out, the report will be sent to the Centre and the   in three to four months,” Chouhan told mediapersons at his residence on Sunday.
 
 Prime Minister   and the BJP have been advocating simultaneous polls to save time and resources. Many opposition parties have opposed the idea, saying that it is not realistic in the present situation.
 
 “Elections take place every two or three months in the country. The polls held at different times hamper development,” Chouhan said at a press conference here, something that he had said soon after taking over as chief minister.
 
 The elections to the Lok Sabha, Vidhan Sabha, gram panchayats, municipalities, zila panchayats, co-operative and others should be held together, he said, adding “the country should seriously think over this issue.”
 
 The chief minister said talks are underway in the country for electoral reforms, especially on simultaneous polls. “The PM had launched a campaign for the same. President   too had mentioned about this in his address to the joint sitting of the two Houses of Parliament in January,” Chouhan added. “I know this is not so easy. But I am of the view that Madhya Pradesh should also contribute to this idea,” he said.
 
 He said that the state government has decided to form a panel led by legislative affairs minister Narottam Mishra to study the feasibility of the exercise. “The committee will study and hold talks with a cross section of people and prepare a report,” he said
 
 The committee will have two ministers, serving and retired bureaucrats and prominent citizens as members.
 
 The committee will also deliberate on holding simultaneous elections to local bodies like gram panchayat, janpad panchayat, district panchayat and cooperatives, the CM said.
 
 
