AHMEDABAD: A B Gor, the   (CEA) of AUDA asked citizens on Thursday to inform his office, by email or a letter, if any school, which was allotted   with the condition that it will be open for   and children during non school hours, was found violating rules. There are at least 14 schools in the city’s western part which have been allotted a whopping 55,466 square metres of land purely on this condition by AUDA.

 “I assure all action will be taken against such schools that refuse access. These schools were allotted huge portions of government land at token rates since a decade purely with a moral condition that the ground will be open to children and residents in the vicinity.” Gor was responding to “rumours” that AUDA was devising a policy to hand over large chunks of land to private school trusts. “These are just rumours and AUDA or the government has no such plans of making such a policy,” Gor confirmed.
 
 Some of these schools were allotted land on over 90-year lease on a token fee. But soon walls secured these grounds and gates were erected and the open space vanished from public memory. But it was the Bodakdev resident’s association that had fought for their open space in 2016 and early 2017 and forced a private school in their neighbourhood to provide access to the playground.
 
 “There may be a possibility that schools may be representing before the government to give the possession of the AUDA land to them. It is for this reason that the AUDA school plots are yet to be handed over to the   (AMC) as the standing committee and general board in the civic body may oppose such a move,” said a senior AUDA official under conditions of anonymity.
 
 As last action, the AUDA chairman had instructed all schools to display boards outside schools mentioning entry hours to the grounds.   member of Bodakdev resident association said, “As residents were not provided access to these grounds roads alongside these grounds became popular walking and exercise jaunts for elders, children and health aficionados, making them vulnerable to accidents.”
 
 
  
 
 
 
