Bringing alive the   coastline was this regatta, organised as part of the   2017-18 cultural exchange. For the participants, however, it was the excitement of   that was the real motivator

 
 
 This was the first time Pondicherry   Association conducted a regatta of this level. This was done in collaboration with the French government as part of Bonjour India. About 68 of them, including Indian, French, Swedish and American sailors took part in this. What’s exciting was the exposure Indian sailors got while competing with international sailors. The east coast offers slightly different kind of conditions than the west coast. Here, the wave swell is slightly more than the west coast. India has got a vast coastline. We should use the best conditions of both the sides and produce Olympians. For example, for events in Europe, you will have to deal a lot with wave swells. That kind of condition you find in the east coast from November to end of January. On the other hand, west coast has similar conditions from April. 
 — Col. Satish Kanwar, 
 Commanding Officer Army Yachting Node, Mumbai
 
 
  
 When the association was first founded in   in 2011, there were only French people and their kids. But that’s changing and more locals are showing interest in sailing. Last year, we had a summer camp and close to 70 kids from the neighbouring fishermen community came for the camp. Hopefully, we will see some local kids at least participating in international regattas, if not winning. That’s our idea of promoting sailing in Pondicherry. 
 — Nathaniel Mallard, a boat manufacturer in Puducherry
 
 
 
 For a sailing enthusiast like me, it was disappointing to see a beautiful sea without any boats in it. That triggered us to start the Pondicherry Sailing Association in 2011. PSA has come a long way. Thanks to Yachting Association of India for helping us initially. We started with a small fleet for Optimists. Today, we have around 35 students. Of late, we have also been inviting other clubs to come over and sail here. That helps us build a good bond with others in the sailing community. I work with my husband in his boat-manufacturing factory. I can tell you that the sailing culture is fast picking up in India. The number of enquiries that we get regarding sailing boats goes up daily. 
 — Cecile Mallard, Pondicherry Sailing Association
 
 
 
 I am from Bhopal and there we practise in a lake which has flat water. We reached here on January 18, almost a week before the regatta. We wanted to make use of the opportunity to the best as these conditions are not available in Bhopal. Even our practice sessions were so intense that they were almost like the actual races. Here, what I realised is that the conditions remain almost the same every day. That itself is a challenge as things are more predictable and every sailor will be prepared. Next, I am going for the Asian Games selection. The last four years, my only focus has been Asian Games. This regatta in Pondicherry has been a good preparation for that. 
 — Harshita Tomar, Indian sailor (she recently won t‘best sailor in the country’ award) 
 
 
  
 I have been here for the last 10 days or so. I have had a great experience coaching the youngsters. I’ve spotted quite a few promising youngsters. I am quite impressed with the young Indian sailors, especially Harshita. The only area they need to improve is fitness — to build strong arms and legs. Regular cardio exercise like running or cycling can help achieve this. 
 — Felix Pruvot, French Olympian sailor 
 
 
 
 ‘Pondichery is already a tourist hub. But sailing has the potential to increase the footfall manifold. Till now, sailing has been a low-key affair here. But the tourism department is planning to promote it better. It would be a great idea if Pondicherry Sailing Association ties up with local schools and provides coaching to kids during summer. The government will also do its bit to support the association.
 — Malladi Krishna Rao, Tourism Minister 
 
 
 
 This is my first time in India. It’s been quite a different experience in India. The conditions are quite favourable for sailing — nice breeze, good waves and the weather is cool. Back in France, the temperature is five to six degrees in water. Sailing is tough in those conditions.
 — Mael Garnier, French sailor 
 
