COIMBATORE:  , when transgender activist A   searched for writings on transgender community in Tamil, she couldn't find any. This drove her to interview transgender people in   and write a book ‘Unarvum Uruvamum’ in 2006, which became one of the first books to be written by a transgender person in Tamil.

 Following this, she wrote her biography, but didn’t publish it fearing repercussions from family and friends. Later, it was released as ‘The Truth About Me’, in English. Only in 2015, the Tamil text was released as ‘Vellai Mozhi’ (The  ), which has also been translated into Hindi, Malayalam and  .
 
 On Saturday, Revathi, now 50, performed a solo play in the city based on the book, to observe Transgenders Day, held on April 15 to commemorate the formation of the transgender welfare board.
 
 Speaking of the play, Revathi says she had performed the play more than 80 times across  . “I was working in an organisation for LGBT rights and was searching for literature on transgender community. But I only found writings by people who were not from the transgender community. So I decided to write a book myself,” she says.
 
 the book was later translated in Kannada and was published by Gauri Lankesh.
 
 In the solo play, Revathi plays herself and narrates her journey of self-discovery and how she found a community to support her. She also enacted the discrimination and harassment meted out to her by the society and police. Revathi also lays bare the contradictions in transgender community. “While many transgender people accept transwomen, they don’t accept transmen. But, I have accepted 10 transmen as my sons,” says Revathi. 
 
 She has also written ‘A Life in Trans Activism’ a book about transmen. 
 
 Though she narrates the plight of living as a transgender person, Revathi also brings in the plight of young children who suffer sexual harassment. “I also decided to add the rape and murder of the eight-year-old girl Kashmiri to the script,” she says. 
 
 Revathi adds that she was inspired to write after reading writer Bama’s novel Karukku. “I learnt from the book that I could turn my pain into words,” she says. “I have found that I could touch people’s lives through literature, art and theatre. I wish to write about people, who are not from the transgender community. I have a plan to write about narikuravas,” she says.
 
 
