CHENNAI: It may be only 640m between the Indira Nagar and Tidel Park junctions on Old Mahabalipuram Road (Rajiv Gandhi Salai), but the time it takes to traverse the 1.3km to get to the   at the latter point on the expressway, take a   and return to where one started, is proving to be fatal for the critically ill.

 Trapped by traffic on the route for more than 15 minutes after entering the expressway at its Madhya Kailash end, an ambulance taking a 55-year-old man who’d had a heart attack to   (VHS Hospital) in Taramani arrived too late.
  
  
 Doctors said the emergency, which took place three weeks ago, may have had a happier ending had the police allowed vehicles taking that route to turn around at the Indira Nagar junction, where work to open the median allowed the department to open a new traffic signal on February 5.
 
 The traffic police allow vehicles heading the other way to take a U-turn or head right toward Adyar at the signal. “All that my patient needed to live that day was a U-turn at the spot,” Dr S  , who heads the trauma unit at VHS, said on Thursday. The hospital’s records show an increase in mortality rates because of late arrivals.
 
 “Accidents take place right in front of the hospital but on the other side of the road, and patients reach here too late,” he said, pointing to files of patients with head injuries who doctors pronounced dead on arrival.
 
 VHS administrators have for three years pressed the city police for a U-turn near the hospital but to no avail.
 
 “There is a U-turn nearby now, but the new signal is a hindrance because it holds up motorists heading to the Taramani side of OMR from Madhya Kailash or Thiruvanmiyur,” said Dr S Suresh, the hospital’s director. “It has only increased waiting time.”
 
 Emergency Management and Research Institute have started to position ambulances at strategic points along OMR and on East Coast Road to take patients to various hospitals on the stretch in emergencies but the new traffic signal fouls up that plan too.
 
 “Our drivers have to follow traffic rules and paramedics can only provide basic medical aid,” EMRI head of operations M Selvakumar said.
 
