KOCHI: When an accused claims insanity, legal experts say that   is the principal guideline. “Nothing is an offence which is done by a person who, at the time of doing it, by reason of unsoundness of mind, is incapable of knowing the nature of the act, or that he is doing what is either wrong or contrary to law,” it states.

 Former director general of prosecution   said that an expert should confirm the mental status of the person in court if there is an insanity argument. “Anybody can make such a claim and it needs to be proved beyond doubt. An expert should establish in court that the person is insane and classify the type. It should be proved in court that he was mentally incapable of controlling himself when the act was committed,” he said.
 
 Ali added that Section 84 gives a general exception for an insane person. “This is one of the most important exception in law. There are many types of insanity: incurable, controllable, uncontrollable, detectable and even the one which happens in the spur of a movement. So a person need to prove that immediately prior to the alleged incident, he had been going to a  . The doctor should testify in court,” he said Evidence can be presented in court even before the charges are framed. “Framing of charges happens when the chargesheet is read out to the accused. This marks the commencement of trial. A preliminary objection can be raised at this point of time that the trial cannot begin unless the mental fitness of the person is certified by an expert. He will then be sent to a   for evaluation. If his insanity is proved, then trial cannot begin,” said Ali.
 
 Criminologist James Vadackumchery said that even if the accused cites psychological problems, he/she would be punished, if the court finds that he/she knew the nature of the act. “The accused can reveal their mental problems. If there is some merit, it can be verified with the help of experts and police will close the case. If it reaches the court, the accused can explain the same in court,” he said.
 
