NEW DELHI: Landing in the middle of an ugly controversy, the National Film Awards ceremony was boycotted by nearly 55 winners on Thursday after they were told that President   would give away awards to only 11 of the 125 recipients. 

 
 As many as 69 award winners wrote to the President and the information and broadcasting ministry in protest and claimed “breach of trust” and “disappointment” that the “institution that abides by extreme protocol fails to inform us of such a vital aspect of the ceremony with a prior notice. 
 
 It seems unfortunate that 65 years of tradition is being overturned in a jiffy”.   press secretary Ashok Malik denied allegations of “last-minute” changes, stating, “The President attends award functions and convocations for a maximum of one hour. This has been the protocol since he took office. It was conveyed to the I&B ministry several weeks ago...”
 
 The awardees alleged that I&B ministry officials informed them of the President’s inability to attend for more than one hour only during rehearsals on Wednesday night, by which time most recipients and their families had reached Delhi. They also claimed it was suggested that the organisers came to know about the President’s programme at a very late stage. 
 
 Some award-winners, like playback singer Yesudas, signed the letter in solidarity with protesters but attended the award ceremony. Among those who kept away had a large Kerala contingent, including   actor Fahad Faasil, director Dileesh Pothan and the cast of best Malayalam film “Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum”, among others. Jury member Usha Kiran Khan said, “While this won’t be the first time the President is not giving away the awards, the controversy could have been avoided by informing the recipients in advance about the change in schedule.” 
 
 Conferred the best actor award for his performance in “Nagarkirtan”, actor Riddhi Sen said, “I am completely supporting the people who are protesting. But I also want to point out that this award is less about who hands it over and more about the acknowledgement of one’s work. Five years down the line, people will remember the film or the person who won the award, not who gave it. Yet, this could have been communicated to people earlier.” 
 
 To save itself the blushes owing to empty seats, ministry officials were seen taking down name plaques and filling up vacant seats with support staff. President Kovind conferred the Dadasaheb Phalke Award posthumously on actor  , and the best actress award to the late   for her role in “Mom”. 
 
 He also conferred the Nargis Dutt award for feature films on national integration, the National Award for best book on cinema, best direction (non-feature film), best Jasari film, best male playback singer, best music direction (songs and background music), best actor, best direction (feature film), best feature film and best editing. 
 
 Later, government sources rubbished the controversy and said all major awardees had shown up despite the attempt to malign the I&B ministry. A source said only award-winners in the non-feature film category had stayed away.
 
 
