UDUPI: The residents of   have demanded that the administration concentrate on abandoned   instead of imposing   rationing this summer. The municipality has started water rationing once in two days due to shortage of drinking water. Residents want the authorities to clean up abandoned   and ponds and make them usable.

 Taranath Meesta, Shirooru, social activist, said, “We want the administration to work on saving water resources rather than ration existing ones. The issue was brought to the notice of the district administration and related departments and we’re waiting for a response. These resources have water which can be used for the entire year.”
 
 “There are several open wells in the Udupi municipal corporation which should be repaired immediately. A few important ones are near Kittur Chennamma Road at  , near Bayalu Ranga Mandira, Bhujanga Park, near Bhagat Singh Road and near   police station. There are hundreds of dangerous open wells within Udupi city and nearby villages. We urge the public to identify such wells and bring them to the notice of the administration,” he added.
 
 Social worker Nithyananda Olakadu said, “We want the municipality to look into the most dangerous well which is close to collapse — the one at North School in the heart of the city. The school, established in 1923, is known as the Government Higher Primary School (North School). Its well has adequate water throug the year but it’s now abandoned. There is no strong security wall around it and the school’s children play near it. The rocks around the well have collapsed from inside and a tree has grown up from one side. As dried leaves fall into the water, it’s contaminated. Currently, the school depends on municipality water. If the school can use the well, they can use the water to prepare mid-day meals, etc.”
 
 Raghavendra, CMC environment engineer, said: “We identified many water resources last year and refilled them and that should be enough for this year too. Currently, we have enough water in Baje Dam. The government wells in the city don’t have the capacity to be used for public distribution. One well gives a maximum of 3-tanker water and Udupi needs 24 MLD. Though one tanker can have 8,000 litres water, per day it’ll take 10 trips for 80,000 litres. We cannot rely on open wells but we’ll put safety measures in place.”
 
 
