NEW DELHI: The entrance to New Delhi Railway   from the Ajmeri   side is set for a makeover. Come September, a 30m-wide road from Bhavbhuti Marg will open directly at the mouth of the station, with Northern   approving a plan to declog the street heavily used by autorickshaws and taxis. Currently, the road leading to the station is shaped liked an ‘S’, which further slows down traffic.

 Senior officials told TOI that the plan involved shifting of several buildings to other locations, approval for which had already been taken. These includes the DCP office and 16 railway staff quarters and sub-stations on the way.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 For a wider entrance, extra land has been acquired by railways from Delhi Metro and another plot allotted to DMRC, instead. Railway officials said construction work would begin by March.
 
 R N Singh, divisional railway manager (Delhi), said: “This is a unique project, as it will not only make access to the railway station easier, but also boost connectivity to the metro station. We plan to move autos and taxis to a designated spot to reduce congestion.” 
 
 There will also be pickup and drop points for cars at the entrance. Several “green” spots will be created around the station. Fountains and signage will be added on the stretch to beautify the zone.   Gate accounted for at least 65% of vehicular traffic to the station, an official said, which was why congestion was such a big issue on that side, with autos and taxis only adding to the problem. 
 
 “Under the new plan, there will be ample space for parking. Passengers’ complaints on the issue have been taken into consideration before finalising the design,” Singh said.
 
 Railway officials said they were also in talks with DMRC to provide metro commuters direct access to the luggage-checking area by providing an underground route, which would bypass the road. 
 
 “Right now, passengers have to cross the lanes with their luggage. We are discussing the feasibility of an underground path from the metro station, which directly opens at the luggage-checking area of the station at the Ajmeri Gate side,” Singh said.
 
 As part of a long-term action plan, the station is undergoing a revamp. It has already seen colour schemes being added to buildings, with street art and wall paintings being displayed inside.
 
 The Old Delhi Railway Station, too, will soon sport a new look, with Northern Railway having planned a slew of changes to be carried out in three phases.
 
