CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court has turned down the divorce plea of a husband who wanted dissolution of his marriage with NRI (British citizen) wife on the grounds of “desertion”, that she failed to stay with him in India and returned to England after marriage.

 Dismissing his plea for divorce on such grounds, the HC held that “such assertion seems highly improbable as a girl born and brought up in England is unlikely to accept and agree to live in rural areas of India unless there is some special attraction or reason justifying such a decision.”
 
 HC made these observations while finding that the wife was very much willing to take her husband to England and even sent travel documents to him so that he could join her there. She had even sent him money from England.
 
 The man, a resident of  , however, insisted that before marriage he had made it clear that she had to live in India. He wanted divorce on the grounds that she had deserted him as their marriage was solemnized on October 31, 2012 and she had left for England on November 27, 2012.
 
 While dismissing his plea, the HC observed that apparently the husband had contracted marriage with an understanding that he would go abroad, which is evident from the fact that she was much older than him. “The stand of the husband that there was an understanding that his wife would stay in the village after marriage and that despite the said understanding she had chosen to return to England does not sound probable at all in view of the aforesaid factual position. It rather transpires that it is the husband who has changed his decision to go abroad after having stayed with his wife for around a month. Husband’s conduct does not show that he had ever taken any step to bring her back or had filed any petition for restitution of conjugal rights,” observed the HC in its recently released orders.
 
 A division bench comprising Justice M M S Bedi and Justice G S   passed these orders while dismissing a petition filed by Jalandhar resident against the decision of family court Jalandhar that had dismissed his divorce plea in August 2016.
 
 After going through the record of the case, the bench dismissed his plea for divorce. It added that after the marriage was solemnized, the wife, who is born and bred in England, had taken steps to do the needful for taking the appellant abroad but it was husband who had chosen to keep away from his wife.
 
 
