Nagpur: The Nagpur University’s 105th convocation at the Vasantrao Deshpande on Saturday was marred by a student’s protest who was upset that her name was dropped from the gold medal list after being declared as one of the winners. Following the uproar by Vijayshree Bajaj and her family, the varsity decided to give her a gold medal as a ‘special case’. Since the varsity did not have an extra medal, it gave Bajaj one that was to be given to another topper who had failed to turn up. After the convocation, the officials took it back promising Bajaj to issue another medal. Bajaj, who is a MA psychology student from Hislop College, told TOI that she was not told about her being taken off the toppers’ list. The incident was a fallout of a botched-up merit order and medal list. Since March 19, TOI has been reporting about the mistakes in merit order and medal list. In Bajaj’s case, her name was removed following a tie based on CGPA and the university as per rules deciding to give the medal to a younger candidate Rachel Peters. Bajaj (1760) had scored more marks than Peter (1689) who is her classmate. On not finding their daughter’s name on the gold medal winners’ list, the Bajaj family confronted top varsity officers, forcing Pro-VC Pramod Yeole and director of Board of examinations and evaluation Neeraj Khaty to leave the dais and try to pacify the family. Within minutes, a ‘special permission’ was taken from VC SP Kane and Bajaj’s name was manually added to the list even though there are no such rules exist.  The case is likely to open a can of worms since many others too have been denied a gold on same grounds. On March 3, the NU had published the provisional medal list which declared Bajaj as the recipient of ‘Nagpur Vidyapeeth Manas Shashtra Vibhag Rajatmahotsava Samarak Smt Kusumtai Wankhede Gold Medal’. Later, it came to NU’s notice that the CGPA scores of Bajaj and Peters were tied at 9.59. Following set rules, Peters replaced Bajaj as the topper. While Peter was informed about her upgrade by university officials, Bajaj learnt about her No. 2 position from her classmate at the venue on Saturday. The NU had issued three corrigenda between March 15 and 21 but failed to inform Bajaj. On March 21, TOI had reported that the CGPA was tied among the three toppers of MA Arabic but the NU was awarding gold medal to the second topper who was the youngest among them but had less marks. Several teachers had questioned the rules and suggested that NU must consider marks in case of tied CGPA. However, the NU officials had said that as per 2013 credit direction and conditions laid by medal sponsors, age is considered in case of tied CGPA. The final medal list dated March 15 carries Bajaj’s name as the gold medal recipient. Surprisingly, on the same day, the NU had issued its first 11-page corrigendum which replaced her name with that of Rachel. The final merit list dated March 21 too shows Bajaj’s name ahead. 