Local   Angad Singh   of the   on Thursday criticized   for going soft on complaints of illegal mining and urged the chief minister to reveal the real people responsible for illegal mining in the state.

 “I urged the chief minster on Wednesday that I had submitted written complaints three months ago to officials and if still they allowed illegal mining then they should tell us who was behind the illegal mining,” he told TOI on Thursday. “The district police have always helped curb illegal mining, but civil administration and especially the   was lax,” he claimed.
 
 
 “The ADC is the nodal officer to check illegal mining and in spite of our written complaints she was not able to take action. In that case, she should be taken to task or she should reveal who was asking her not to take the action,” Saini said.
 
 “In November, I started getting complaints from residents of Malikpur village that mining was being done in their fields and their roads were also being damaged. I met the DC and he entrusted the case to ADC Ranjit Kaur. We did not want to create hassles for the contractor, but wanted there should be clear demarcation and villagers should also not face problems. I went with the villagers to submit the complaint to the DC. For a month, I kept on following up with the ADC, but no action was taken and then she stopped taking my phone calls. I had to send a complaint to Punjab Assembly Speaker for breach of privilege in the beginning of January. The Speaker summoned her and only then two-three cases were registered about Malikpur mine,” he claimed.
 
 ADC Ranjit Kaur neither answered TOI’s repeated calls nor did she respond to the SMSes with the specific questions about the allegations levelled by the MLA.
 
 Suggesting that somebody from “high level” was dictating to the mining department, Saini said he and the Balachaur MLA wrote to industries department director D P S   that a mining clerk posted at Nawanshahr for over eight years should be shifted. “However, nothing happened even as I followed up and then both of us again met him and asked about the action taken on our letters. He said he had received a written communiqué from a ‘senior person’ that the clerk should be allowed to stay at Nawanshahr. I said that the ‘senior man’ was neither holding the department nor was representing any local constituency then what should be his interest here to interfere at this level. Now Kharbandaii can tell that why did he not take action and he should tell that what pressure was on him not to shift the clerk in mining department,” Saini said.
 
 When asked, Kharbanda denied he had told the two MLAs that he received some written communiqué from a ‘senior man’ for not shifting the employee. He said it was an out-of-season transfer and only minster in-charge can sanction it. “We sent it to the government and, if approved we shall shift the employee,” he said.
 
