Visakhapatnam: The deadline for the disposal of pending applications under the Land Regularisation Scheme ( ) was again extended till March 31. 

 A circular to this extent was sent to the Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) by the municipal administration and urban development department of the state government on Monday. In another order, the state government has also extended the building penalisation scheme ( ) till March 31.
 
 The LRS, which was introduced to regularise all unauthorised plots and layouts within Vuda limits, had received about 20,400 applications before closure of the scheme in 2015. Vuda officials have regulated 9,211 applications and rejected 6,242 before the end of deadline of processing in the first half of 2017. 
 
 However, Vuda officials persuaded the government to extend the deadline to process the pending 4,948 applications and the government extended the deadlines three times in the recent four months (in September and November of 2017 and January 2018).
 
 Speaking to TOI, Vuda chief urban planner V Bhavani Shankar said they processed about 886 applications as of December 31, which was originally the last date of processing pending applications. 
 
 “We requested the government to extend the deadline again. We hope we can take the number of processed applications to more than 1,000 by March 2018 as some applications are kept pending due to CRZ norms and controversy over land ownership,” said Bhavani Shankar. 
 
 Through an LRS mela held on December 19, the Vuda officials have handed over the regularisation certificates to 114 applicants. However, the increased penalisation charges, which are collected as per the prevailing market value of land based on sub-registrar records, is said to be the prime reason for the poor response for the LRS scheme. 
 
 The land value increased manifold since 2015 (when the scheme was launched) in several areas under Vuda jurisdiction. Vuda had sent out reminder letters and called the applicants personally to submit the necessary documents and pay the penalisation charges.
 
 
