MALDA: A migrant labourer from Malda’s Kaliachak, travelling back home in a general compartment of the Howrah-Malda Fast Passenger, was abused and assaulted by four youths when he failed to name the Prime Minister of India and the chief minister of West Bengal. 

 
 The youths had put the questions to the labourer in an attempt to dislodge him from his seat. His “ignorance” got compounded when the man revealed that he offered namaz every day. And all of this happened in Bengal — between Howrah and Bandel stations on May 14 — while co-passengers watched it all without a murmur of protest.
 
  had no reprieve even when he pleaded with the youths that he had little education. The questions flew thick and fast: “Who is the Prime Minister of India? Who is the chief minister of Bengal? What is our national anthem?” 
 
 When these drew a blank, the youths howled: “Who is Nawaz Sharif?” Jamal had no answer to this too.
 
 The infuriated youths wouldn’t leave Jamal alone yet. “Do you offer namaz,” they asked. Their agenda became apparent when Jamal answered in the affirmative. “Shame on you. You offer namaz every day at a mosque but you don’t know the national anthem,” they thundered. 
 
 The four youths then forced Jamal to say “Bharat Mata Ki Jai” and got down at Bandel.
 
 Bangla Sanskriti Mancha ( ), an NGO, has taken up Jamal’s cause after members went through video clippings of the torture that have gone viral on social media.
 
 BSM members went to Jamal’s Kaliachak home and took his wife   to the police station to lodge a complaint. “We have accepted the complaint though the incident happened on a train and it comes under the jurisdiction of GRP. We have registered a case. The youths will be identified and booked. No one has the right to insult and assault a person for his religion,” said Malda superintendent of police Arnab Ghosh.
 
 Jamal, now back in Gujarat, narrated his ordeal to TOI over the phone. “I was not feeling well that day. So, I sat beside the window. But they forced me to leave that seat. I accepted it. The four youths then threw a volley of questions at me. I could answer some, but most I didn’t know. They began to abuse me, my family and my religion. No one in the compartment objected to the abuse,” the labourer said. “They roughed me up several times. I was reduced to tears. This went on till they got down at Bandel.”
 
 The fear silenced Jamal during his stay in Bengal. He didn’t even tell his wife about the ordeal and left for Gujarat five days later on May 19.
 
