By:Anindita.Acharya

 Bengalis’ love for Durga Puja is famous. If you happen to come across a Bengali living outside Kolkata, expect him or her to get started on how awesome Durga Puja is and how this ‘grandest festival’ brings Kolkata to a standstill. If you spend some more time together, then he or she will draw up a list of popular pujas of Kolkata, even though you are least interested. Yes, that’s how crazy Bengalis become the moment they hear the word ‘pujo’.
 
 Ashok De Sarkar landed with his first job as a mechanical engineer in Chandigarh just a year after Swiss-French architect Le Corbusier designed the city in 1966. Sarkar spent his childhood in Bengal, but unlike many probashi (non-resident) Bengalis, this Mohali resident’s heart doesn’t yearn for Kolkata. Not even during Durga Puja. Yes, you read it right. “I enjoy Durga Puja with the Bengalis of the Tricity,” said Sarkar, president of Banga Bhawan in Sector 35.
 
 Much like Sarkar, Banga Bhawan’s women’s wing secretary Begma Roy also can’t imagine leaving the Union Territory even on Bengali special occasions. The UT Bengali community, she says, has become her family. So, be it
 
 Poila Baisakh, Saraswati Puja, or Rabindra Jayanti, this Sector 28 resident tries to celebrate it in Chandigarh. There are nearly 7,000 Bengali families in Tricity, the puja committees of which might depend on the City of Joy for festival items, but for most Bengalis, Chandigarh has become their first home. Kolkata comes a close second.
 
 
 
 Banga Bhawan started organising Durga Puja in 1972. Before that, puja used to happen at Panchayat Bhawan and the cultural programmes at Tagore Theatre. “There were many Bengalis in the Air Force that time. They had settled in this city as soon as it was designed,” said Sarkar. K Banerjee, who was re-designated as first UT adviser, was a patron of Banga Bhawan.
 
 Debyendu Das, general secretary of Banga Bhawan, shifted to Chandigarh in 1966 when his father was in the Air Force. It has been 52 years but Das has never thought of going back to Kolkata, the city where he was born. “This is my home. I completed my education here. My children are settled here,” said Das, who swears by sarson ka saag. The Banga Bhawan committee meets in the first week of every month to plan out its monthly activities. Some members meet every Sunday as well.
 
 Kalibari, another Bengali association in Industrial Area Phase II came up in 1970. Durga idols made in Kalibari travel to Kullu, Jammu, Kalka, Kangra, Ambala, and even Ladakh. Kalibari president Nilkantha Das said: “All our lives we have lived in this city. Chandigarh might not have the hustle and bustle of Kolkata, but we have fallen in love with its calmness.”
 
 
 
 
 Bengalis are as proud of their achievements in art and culture as Punjabis are of their butter chicken. The UT Bengali communities—Kalibari, Banga Bhawan, Air Force Puja, Sector 47, and Chandigarh Bengali Jewellers’ Association, Sector 37—host many activities throughout year to celebrate cultural diversity.
 
 Puppeteer Subhasis Neogi organises drawing and puppetry classes on the Banga Bhawan campus, where one can also learn yoga, dance, and taekwondo. Banga Bhawan also provides transit travellers with accommodation.
 
 Kalibari holds Kathak and Bharatnatyam classes apart from supplying poor patients with free medicines.
 
 “Banga Bhawan has an open-air stage. Language is not a barrier. I want more people to utilise this stage to spread communal harmony,” said general secretary Debyendu Das.
 
 
 
 D as along with Banga Bhawan treasurer Subal Chandra Pradhan, women’s wing president Kajol Chatterjee, and women’s wing treasurer Sreeparna Biswas appealed to Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher for more trains between West Bengal and the city. “There’s Kalka Mail, but it arrives at odd hours. There were talks of launching a daily flight between the two points, but nothing became of it. We need more trains,” said Das, who also sought help from the UT administration for the maintenance of Banga Bhawan.
 
 Chandigarh Bengali Jewellers’ Association secretary Santiram Majhi, who lives in the city since 1982, has requested the administration for a school where Bengali would be second language. “We might be outside Bengal but we don’t want our children to forget their culture and language,” he said. Just like Pune, Bangalore, and Hyderabad, Majhi wants the Chandigarh big screens to also show at least one Bengali movie every month, on any Sunday. Amazon Obhijaan, which ran in a Chandigarh multiplex for three days In December 2017, was the only Bengali film ever to be screened in the UT.
 
