LUDHIANA: Birthday celebrations of a girl turned into mourning when four men, including two brothers, one of whom was the father of birthday girl, were   to death in   of Dhandari Khurd in Focal point area late on Friday evening.

 The incident happened when one of the deceased slipped and accidentally came into contact with high-tension wires crossing in front of the house and others made an attempt to rescue him.
 
 
  
  
 
 The deceased have been identified as Amarjit Singh, 31; his brother  , 27; their neighbors  , 30; and  , 28, all residents of Ishwar Colony. Their families were also present in the party.
 
 “All four were enjoying drinks on the second floor of the house when one of the deceased slipped and mistakenly touched the wire. Other three rushed to his rescue and got electrocuted. All of them died on the spot.
 
 Neighbours said Amarjit Singh was celebrating the 8th birthday of his daughter for which he had invited the area residents. While children and women were celebrating birthday on the ground floor of the house, Amarjit Singh along with his brother Sarabjit and two neighbourers Ranjit and Makhanshu were on the first floor having drinks.
 
 “There was some argument going on among them, but everyone ignored it as we all knew that they were enjoying their drinks. Later there was a blast in the power supply lines after which residents rushed out and saw flames coming out of second floor of the house,” said Amarjit’s wife Rita.
 
 When they rushed upstairs, charred bodies of Amanrjit and Ranjit were found lying on the floor while Sarbjit and Makhanshu were engulfed in flames and crying for help. Residents tried to save them by throwing blankets over them and also called up fire brigade, but could not save them.
 
 Inspector  , SHO, Focal Point police station, said all four were drunk and one of them slipped near the washroom and mistakenly touched the wires. Other three rushed to his rescue and got electrocuted. Police so far have ruled out any foul play into the incident. They said the statements of witnesses were being verified.
 
 Amarjit’s wife Rita said, “We all were on ground floor when he heard some arguments from the second floor. As we knew that all four are having drinks, therefore we did not notice. When we heard the blast, we rushed out and came to know about the incident.”
 
 Further SHO Brar said the police have proceeded with Section 174 of CrPC in this matter on the statement of kin of deceased. Amarjit Singh was contractor, while other three were labourers at a factory in Kohara.
 
 
