Ludhiana: The residents of Ludhiana stepped out of their homes for the much-anticipated MC polls amid violence. Firing incidents, stone pelting and scuffle were reported at several places (both inside and outside the polling booths) on Saturday and the police failed to maintain law and order. 

 In Preet Nagar, street number 20, Nirman School was used as a polling booth for ward No 36. Nearly, 30 miscreants barged into the polling station and tried to capture it. Following this, when supporters of different parties reached the spot, they attacked each other. Stone pelting incidents were also reported from this booth.
 
 When the situation turned grim, more forces were called, who lathi-charged on the miscreants. Some nearby residents captured the entire drama on their mobile phone. Soon, the video has become viral on social media.
 
 In some polling booths, candidates and their supporters accused the police for being ‘biased’. In ward number 44, at a polling booth near Durga Mata Mandir, heated arguments were exchanged between SAD candidate Meetapal Singh Dugri and supporters of LIP candidate Krishan Mittal. Independent candidate Jasbir Singh Jassal accused the police of taking sides with Congress candidate Harkarandeep Singh Vaid.
 
 The LIP and SAD candidates accused Harkarandeep’s father, MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid, of booth capturing and casting bogus votes.
 
 Dugri alleged police official, ACP Ramandeep Singh Bhullar deployed at the polling booth, for being unfair. He also said the top cop did not allow them to videograph the election even though they had written permission for the same. Not only this, ACP Bhullar also misbehaved with the media persons on duty at the polling booth.
 
 At the polling booth of Sat Paul Mittal, supporters of all parties got into a scuffle. Now, the rule states, one candidate and one polling agent are allowed at the booth. So, the presence of a group of supporters inside the booth, was a sheer violation of the code.
 
 In ward number 16, BCM School, Sector 32, was used as a polling station. The gates of the polling booth were closed for some time when Congress and BJP leaders allegedly manhandled each other. It is alleged Congress leader Kamal Arora caught BJP supporters distributing pamphlets of BJP candidate during the election.
 
 The division no 7 police reached the spot and handled the situation. The main gate of the polling booth was closed for a while after the situation. In ward number 25, violation of election code was also witnessed. The Government Primary School, Kuliyewal, was used as a polling station. Nearly, 50 people suddenly gathered inside the polling booth. The police security didn’t say a word in this matter. It was only when MLA Sharanjit Dhillon reached the spot and took up the issue that additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-4) Rajveer Singh reached the location and managed the situation.
 
 In yet another incident of violence, pelting of stones took place between Congress and BJP supporters. The prominent faces among the people creating ruckus were Vicky Dawar, nephew of MLA Surinder Dawar, and Amreek Singh Bhola, the husband of BJP candidate from ward number 59 Prabhjot Kaur. 
 
 It is alleged they got into a scuffle while entering the polling booth. Following this, several supporters gathered at the location and attacked each other. During stone pelting, BJP leader Ramandeep Singh sustained injuries. Later on, police force reached the spot. Both parties have filed complaints against each other with Daresi police.
 
 Slogans were raised by the independent candidate from ward number 56, who also staged a protest outside the polling booth and accused Congress candidate Sham Sundar Malhotra for casting bogus votes. A huge traffic jam was witnessed in the area following the protest. Later the ACP- Central Mandeep Singh reached the spot and pacified agitators.
 
 Box
 
 Voting affected
 
 Slogans were raised by an independent candidate from ward number 56.
 
 The candidate also staged a protest outside the polling booth
 
 BJP leader Ramandeep Singh sustained injuries in stone-pelting
 
 In ward number 25, violation of election code was also witnessed, 50 people suddenly gathered inside the polling booth
 
 In Preet Nagar, 30 miscreants barged into a polling station
 
 
