NAGPUR: In 1972, a medical surgical camp was held for the first time in   by   (RCNS) at the suggestion by Dr  . The club continued the initiative and has been conducting mega annual medical camp for the benefit of Korku Adivasis every year. The club completed 25 years of undertaking the initiative this year.

 This year’s camp, held from January 16 to 18 followed by a two-day   surgical workshop on January 20 and 21 saw a total 183 surgeries, including thyroid, cataract, and others, including cyst or hernia.
 
 Along with the camp, a workshop was conducted for nearly 35 surgeons who came from all over the country. “The situation of thyroid surgery in India is like no-man’s-land. It is not well-defined and leaves much lacunae,” said ENT specialist Dr Madan Kapre.
 
 Among the delegates was a dignitary in the field of head and neck surgery, practising surgeon at Imperial College Hospital Dr  , who is based in London.
 
 The camp was set up at the rural hospital in Chikhaldara, where an adjoining hall and facility has been set up by the   to aid the medical camp. Live communication during treatment was also enabled at the camp, wherein the delegates were allowed to see the entire process. The forest department helped the club by providing tribals pick-up and drop facilities, at several areas.
 
 Amit Gokhle, president of RCNS, said that during the course of the camp, food was made for not just the patients and doctors but even for the relatives of the patients. “We have fed hygienically prepared khichdi to nearly 50,000 people on all days and had arranged for their stay as well at Nagar Parishad community halls,” he said.
 
 Before the surgical camp, a satellite camp was conducted at Dharni in December to select patients. From 475 patients, only 84 were selected for the surgery. Teachers from Ekal Vidyalaya assisted Dr Abhishek Vaidya and his team in screening people. Woman volunteers of the club undertook the responsibility of spreading awareness about hygiene, nutrition and anti-tobacco habits.
 
 Explaining the focus on thyroidism in hilly areas, member of RCNS Sanjay Tatwawadi said, “People who live in mountainous region are seen to have a deficiency of iodine, which is one of the castors causing goitre and thyroid, apart from tobacco consumption and lifestyle diseases.”
 
 The capital for the camp is to the tune of about Rs7-8 lakh, collected from club members, surgeons and philanthropic individuals. Dr Deven Mahore, Dr Sunil Kawathe and Dr Prakash Kapre are among the devoted list of surgeons and volunteers who contributed to the camp.
 
 
