BENGALURU: #Serveinmylanguage is gaining ground on   as more   bemoan the indifference of   to their language problems.

 
 From ATMs to deposit slips, withdrawal challans and call centres, most public and private banks feel that service in Hindi and English should suffice their customer base –– Indians who converse in 22 major languages and 720 dialects.
 
 Organizations like   (CLEAR), Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, Bangla-O-Bengali, and political parties such as Tamil Nadu’s DMK have been pressing for changes in the banking system in recent months. Facebook forums such as Promote Linguistic Equality: Hindi is not the national language and Twitter handles like Voice of South regularly share photographs, screenshots and narrate anecdotes of consumers facing difficulties.
 
 PSBs’ Hindi-English approach affects south Indian customers
 
 It reeks of elitism, apathy to change and indifference to the needs of the working class,” said Harvinder Singh, general secretary of the All India Bank Officers’ Confederation. Language barriers prove particularly difficult when having to block a stolen or lost debit card or when attempting a more complicated banking transaction like creation of a fixed deposit with a minor as nominee, guardian address and other details.
 
 For loans, customers on Twitter feel it’s complicated enough to figure out the labyrinth of terms and conditions, EMI structure, loan tenure and interest rates, without the added burden of doing it in an unfamiliar language. “Most PSBs like State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank have a dual-language approach, communicating only in Hindi and English making it difficult for south Indian customers,” says N Muruganatham, a customer of SBI.
 
 Private banks such as ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank are trying to be more multi-lingual in their digital banking strategy. “For instance, the Kotak Bharat app is aimed at financial inclusion. Users can transfer money, recharge their mobile, buy insurance, etc in Hindi, English, Gujarati, Marathi, Tamil or Kannada. We plan to expand the app to handle other regional languages,” says Deepak Sharma, chief digital officer at Kotak Mahindra Bank.
 
 A few months ago, State Bank of India’s Twitter handle @TheOfficialSBI created a furore when it tweeted, “Only English/Hindi requests will be processed.”
 
 For complaints in regional languages such as Tamil, Marathi, Gujarati, customers are directed to the bank’s customer care helpline, where again SBI asks for input of customer details such as account or debit card number, expiry date or TPIN in English/Hindi before transferring to operators who might be multilingual. A chief executive at one of SBI’s subsidiaries said, “This is a software issue, which we are trying to overcome. Our systems, core banking solutions are geared towards Hindi and English, which is why our written responses are only in these two languages. But our call centres can handle as many as 11 regional languages, including Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Gujarati, and Marathi.”
 
 When it comes to ATM usage or malfunction, customers say this Hindi-English dual system is frustrating. Particularly, when the ATM machine has not dispensed the cash or their debit card gets stuck, customers find it difficult to decipher which of the toll-free numbers they are supposed to be calling. “Not everyone is fluent in English. Many elderly people and blue-collar workers have only 5th or 6th grade working understanding of the English language, making it difficult for them to report an ATM emergency,” said Mohamed Irfan, a customer. Irfan also points to the fact that Australia’s Commonwealth Bank provides service to Tamils, despite the total Tamil migrant population in Australia being just 1.5 lakh.
 
 
 
