

 
 
 
 
 That's it!   have beaten   who manage 140/6 in 20 overs, chasing 152. With this win SRH displace Chennai Super Kings from the top spot.
 
 
 With 13 needed off final two deliveries, K Gowtham goes big but he finds Shikhar Dhawan near the boundary to be caught on 8. Score 139/6
 
 
 
 
 End of a tight over from Siddarth Kaul. A successful one from the medium-pacer - six runs and a wicket in it. Score 131/5
 
 
 A good catch from Wriddhiman Saha as Siddarth Kaul removes Mahipal Lomror for 11. Score 128/5
 
 Siddarth Kaul to bowl the penultimate over
 
 Rajasthan need 27 off 12 deliveries
 
 
  takes on Rashid Khan - a slog sweep into the stand for a six. Nine runs from the over. Score 125/4
 
 
 A couple and five singles from Siddarth Kaul's third over. Rajasthan need more than that now. They need 36 off 18 deliveries - two runs per ball. Score 116/4
 
 
 The asking rate continues to climb up even as RR struggle to score quickly. Seven runs from Rashid Khan's third over. Royals need 43 runs off 24 deliveries. Score 109/4
 
 
 
 Second and final time-out of RR's innings
 
 
 Williamson is going for the kill, looking for more wickets. 
 
 Just six runs from Sandeep's final over. He finishes with figures of 4-0-15-1. Score 102/4
 
 
 OUT! Rashid Khan returns & lands a big blow as he removes Jos Buttler cheaply on 10. Buttler takes the aerial route but fails to clear long-off as Shikhar Dhawan accepts an easy catch. Score 96/4
 
 Rashid Khan is back
 
 
 Ajinkya Rahane makes full use of a loose delivery from Yusuf Pathan down the leg as he sweeps it to fine leg for his fifth four. 9 runs from the over. Score 91/3 
 
 
 Shakib Al Hasan finishes his quota of four overs with a decent last over that resulted in five runs. Score 82/3
 
 
 Another productive over comes to an end. Five runs and a big wicket of Ben Stokes in it. Score 77/3
 
 
 OUT! That's a big wicket for Sunrisers as Yusuf Pathan has cleaned up the dangerman Ben Stokes on a duck. Score 73/3
 
 
 OUT! Breakthrough for the Sunrisers as Siddarth Kaul removes well-set Sanju Samson on 40. A knuckle delivery, tailing in and Samson fails to get past Alex Hales at short-midwicket. Score 72/2
 
 First time-out of RR innings
 
 
 Shakib Al Hasan continues. RR continue to find boundaries. This time also it comes from the bat of Ajinkya Rahane. Nine runs from the over. Score 69/1 
 
 
 Not an ideal start from the Afghan star as RR take 10 runs from his first over. Ajinkya Rahane managed to hit him for a four to midwicket. Score 60/1
 
 Legspinner Rashid Khan into the attack now
 
 
 Shakib Al Hasan returns and RR take seven runs from his second over. Score 50/1
 
 
 End of Powerplay. Rajsthan Royals have scored 43 runs for the loss of one wicket. A good over for the home team as they collected eight runs from Siddarth Kaul's first over including a boundary from the bat of Sanju Samson
 
 Siddarth Kaul into the attack now
 
 
 Sandeep Sharma continues to bowl well. Another good over from him - just four runs from it. Score 35/1
 
 
 He began the over with a stylish backfoot punch through covers for a four and followed up with a six over midwicket. He scored yet another four employing a pull to deep square leg region. Score 31/1
 
 Basil Thampi introduced into the attack
 
 
 End of a fruitful over from Sandeep Sharma. A wicket and just a single from it. Score 14/1
 
 
 OUT! Sandeep Sharma makes an early breakthrough with the scalp of Rahul Tripathi. An early charge from Tripathi but he is in an uncomfortable position to get this through as the ball skips his bat and crashes on the stumps. He scored 4. Score 13/1
 
 
 A decent over for Rajasthan Royals as they take nine runs from it including a boundary off the final delivery by Ajinkya Rahane. Score 13/0
 
 Shakib Al Hasan to share the new ball duties 
 
 
 A good over from Sandeep Sharma apart from that one delivery which was clipped by Ajinkya Rahane for a four through midwicket. Four runs from the over. Score 4/0
 
 
 
 
 
 Jofra Archer to bowl the final over
 
 
 OUT! Jaydev Unadkat strikes as Manish Pandey slices one to point to be caught by Ajinkya Rahane on 16. Rajasthan have taken control in the death overs. Score 143/6 
 
 Jaydev Unadkat returns to bowl the penultimate over
 
 
 OUT! Second wicket of the over for Jofra Archer as Yusuf Pathan holes out on 2 to Dhawal Kulkarni at third man. Score 137/5
 
 
 Excellent yorker from Jofra Archer as Shakib Al Hasan is clean bowled on 6 off 6. Score 133/4
 
 
 Ben Stokes returns. A good over from the right-arm pacer. He did err in length once for which he was duly punished by Manish Pandey with a four over mid-off. Other than that slip, pretty decent stuff. Seven runs from the over. Score 133/3
 
 Second and final time-out of SRH innings
 
 
 K Gowtham finishes his excellent spell - 4-0-18-2. Six runs from his final over. SRH 126/3 with Manish Pandey and Shakib Al Hasan in the middle
 
 
 Ish Sodhi gets   out caught behind. The SRH skipper reviews it but replays show he did nick it. An excellent catc from wicketkeeper Jos Buttler as the ball was quite low. Williamson scored 63 off 43. First IPL wicket for Sodhi. Score 116/3 
 
 
 Gowtham finishes another good over. Six runs and a wicket in it. Score 113/2
 
 
 He has been the star for Rajasthan with the ball today. He outsmarts Hales in flight as the Englishman slices him over point to be caught by Sanju Samson. He scored 45 off 39. Score 109/2
 
 
 Williamson has shifted a gear. Launches Jofra Archer over mid-off for his second six of the match. Eight runs from the over. Score 107/1
  
 
 This has been an excellent innings from the SRH skipper. Took 32 deliveries to reach the milestone. It was a fruitful over for SRH as Williamson waded through Unadkat clattering him for three fours and a six in the over. 21 runs came from it. Score 99/1
 
 
 Another debutant comes into the attack. This time it's former India U-19 cricketer Mahipal Lomror. An impressive start from the left-arm spinner but Alex Hales pulls him over the midwicket region to finish the over with a four. Eight runs from the over. Score 78/1
 
 
 Alex Hales started the over with a pull to deep square leg region for a four. Stokes did well to limit them for just three runs off his next five deliveries. 
 
 
 
 
 Nine runs from Ish Sodhi's second over. He could have had a wicket to his name had Ben Stokes managed to hold on to a difficult catch from Alex Hale off the first delivery. Good sportsmanship from the England allrounder as he immediately signalled he had grassed the catch. Williamson ended the over with an inside-out shot over extra cover for his fourth boundary of the innings. Score 63/1
 
 
 Now, the costliest player of the season - Ben Stokes - introduced. Six runs from the over including a couple to Hales which took SRH's total past 50-run mark. Score 54/1
 
 
 Ish Sodhi, the debutant, comes into the attack. Does well barring one delivery which he dropped short as his countrymate Kane Williamson dispatched him to midwicket boundary for a four. 9 runs from the over. Score 48/1
 
 
 The costliest Indian player of the current season - Jaydev Unadkat - to bowl the final over of the Powerplay. Good over from him. Keeps Hales, Williamson quiet. Six runs from it. Score 39/1
 
 
 Jofra Archer could have been celebrating a wicket had Rahul Tripathi not dropped a sitter at the first slip. It was a straightforward chance which Tripathi failed to hold on to as Kane Williamson poked at a delivery that had him in trouble, getting an outside edge. Off the previous delivery, Williamson had driven him through mid-on for a four. Seven runs from the over. Score 33/1
 
 Jofra Archer comes into the attack now.
 
 
 Dhawal Kulkarni continues despite the battering he received in his first over. And Kane Williamson thrashes him through point for his first boundary. The medium-pacer does well to allow three more in his next five deliveries. Score 26/1
 
 
 A successful over from K Gowtham comes to an end. A wicket and just three runs in it. Captain Kane Williamson is the new batsman in. Score 20/1
 
 
 A quicker one from K Gowtham and Shikhar Dhawan gets an inside edge to be clean bowled on 6. Score 17/1
 
 
 An expensive over from Dhawal Kulkarni. Alex Hales struck two fours in it - one through point and the other through midwicket. Shikhar Dhawan then added a boundary of his own as Kulkarni leaked 14 runs in his first over. Score 17/0
 
 
 A good start from K Gowtham as his first over results in just three singles. Score 3/0
 
 
 
 
 Shikhar Dhawan, Alex Hales, Kane Williamson (captain), Manish Pandey, Shakib Al Hasan, Yusuf Pathan, Wriddhiman Saha (wicketkeeper), Rashid Khan, Basil Thampi, Siddarth Kaul, Sandeep Sharma
 
 
 Ajinkya Rahane (captain), Rahul Tripathi, Sanju Samson, Ben Stokes, Jos Buttler (wk), Krishnappa Gowtham, Jofra Archer, Mahipal Lomror, Jaydev Unadkat, Dhawal Kulkarni, Ish Sodhi
 
 
 
 Sunrisers Hyderabad win the coin toss, opt to bat first against Rajasthan Royals
 
 
 Both Rajasthan Royals and Sunrisers Hyderabad, incidentally, are coming into Sunday’s game after pulling off Houdini Acts in their last matches. While SRH defended what seemed to be an indefensible score against Kings XI Punjab, Royals chased down a target against Mumbai Indians that at one stage had looked impossible. That would be confidence boosters for both sides. 
 
