NAGPUR: Three persons, including manager of Suresh Exports, are being quizzed for their possible involvement in the   murder case. The rural cops have nearly cracked the case zeroing down on the three within 24 hours of Narang’s body being discovered under Kanhan bridge. 

 It was learnt that the rural cops, along with their city counterparts from Tehsil police, have now stumbled upon a crucial clue regarding the involvement of the three. The cops are yet to finalize the arrests while going to the press. At this point of time, the cops are also not ruling out the involvement of a bigger mastermind behind the murder. It has been so far learnt that Narang, accountant with Suresh Exports of politically connected Wadhwani family, was murdered due to some complexity in the official work. 
 
 Though the manager in question has tried to mislead cops stating that he wanted to eliminate Narang to avenge brother’s death and relentless insults by him for official work, a section of the cops feel that there could be the angle of professional secret being getting leaked to the disadvantage of the management. Sources claimed that Narang, who had worked for 35 years with his relative  , had come to know about several issues related to the trade-related matters. Fearing an expose and insecured about his position, police said the manager is likely to have played a key role in the murder. 
 
 Cops said the manager of the firm, who had worked for more than two decades with Narang, had gone to Mouda on December 27. It was on the same day the deceased had gone missing from home. He was accompanied with the other suspect. The manager and the suspect had gone to Mouda in a light van. The driver is also in police custody as he too knew the plot but had silently abetted the crime.
 
 Police said the manager had spilled the beans during the interrogation. The manager has learnt to have tried to convince cops regarding visiting Mouda for purchasing medicine for daughter. The cops, during the questioning, found out that he had never purchased medicines from Mouda in the past. 
 
 As of now, sources from police department said Narang was kidnapped from Kalamna before being strangled. His body was then wrapped in a chilli powder sack. The sack was sewn professionally too. The sack too was a significant lead that cops had got regarding the involvement of an insider and motive being professional rivalry.
 
 
