MADURAI: In a move to make Madurai waste segregation more efficient, the civic body is planning to decentralise garbage collection by constructing micro compost pits and manufacturing manure in the zones that are far away from the dumping yard in Vellaikkal. Twenty eight such decentralised pits would come up in a phased manner according to the   commissioner, Aneesh Sekhar.

 Corporation is also planning to add a fleet of 100 battery operated cars to enhance the efficiency of garbage collection in the city.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sekhar, said that garbage segregation continued to be a major problem for the corporation as people were yet to comply with norms of source segregation.
 
 Though the city corporation implemented ‘Plastic only Wednesdays’ for garbage collection; residents continued to dispose unsegregated waste, including both dry and wet waste together.  , a sanitary worker, said that they would have to do double work as they had to segregate the waste after it was dumped into the carts.
 
 The first micro compost yard had been completed in   in zone four of the corporation, where the wet waste from Thirunagar, Sundar Nagar, Joseph Nagar and Sornam Colony would be deposited and manure would be prepared. A similar pit was being constructed in Harveypatti near the corporation park.
 
 These pits would have the capacity of dealing with three to five tonnes of garbage. The estimated cost of a pit which would have a capacity of one to two tonnes would be about Rs 8 to 10 lakh. Twenty eight such decentralised pits would come up in a phased manner according to the commissioner.
 
 As of now, the places where these pits would come up were being identified and in the first phase it would be implemented in zone one and two which are far away from the Vellaikkal garbage collection centre. “We hope that with these decentralised pits, we can make the city bin free,” he said.
 
 He said that the door-to-door collection would also be strengthened and the civic body has planned to add about 100 battery operated vehicles to its present garbage collection vehicles. Each of these vehicles is estimated to cost Rs 2 lakh.
 
 The corporation which has 5,000 workers on roll also plans to re-employ its workers with the help of an NGO, as their current deployment of work is not scientifically allotted. Apart from training and streamlining, the civic body also plans to ensure that all the workers have an equal number of houses to work on which would increase their efficiency under this programme.
 
 
