PUNE: Mayor Mukta Tilak on Friday directed the PMC’s anti-encroachment department to crack the whip on entities involved in sale and manufacture of   and report such instances to the local police for further action.

 “There is a need to educate people against using nylon manja. The administration will join hands with schools and colleges to create awareness against its use among youths. The   recently prepared the sanitation bylaws, which have been sent to the state government for approval. The administration will recommend an additional clause to put restrictions on sale of banned   in the city,” Tilak said while addressing a meeting to discuss measures for restricting manja sale.
 
 The meeting was held against the backdrop of the death of Suvarna Mujumdar, who was killed after her throat was slit by manja recently. The meeting was attended by citizens, leaders of political parties and representatives of various commercial sectors. 
 
 Tilak said the civic administration will also write letters to the Pune police and the district collector to initiate action against manja business. “An outright ban on kite flying was not possible and not advisable. But the kite flying activities can certainly be banned in the densely populated areas. The civic body will identify such locations as per the requirement,” the mayor said. 
 
 Though police have already started taking action against the shopowners involved in manja sale, leader of Opposition in PMC Chetan Tupe said the drive must be intensified.
 
 “If nylon manja is already banned in the country then how is it available in local market? This means it is being manufactured locally. Police should identify the manufacturers to ensure that the banned product does not hit the market,” Tupe said.
 
 He also recommended to constitute a committee to chalk out a detailed plan to keep a tab on the entities involved in sale and manufacture of manja.
 
 Shital Ugale Teli, additional commissioner of PMC, said the NGT has told police and the district collector to initiate legal action against sale of banned manja. “The civic administration will report the cases to police,” she said.
 
 
