KOLKATA: Days after Kolkata traffic police proposed a host of measures to ensure pedestrians’ and motorists’ safety on EM Bypass — including overbridges near   stations and using the upcoming Metro stations as pedestrian crossovers — it has now come out with a second set of recommendations.

 The local police had recommended a pedestrian subway at Ajay Nagar and   has written to government agencies proposing an underpass at the earliest at the crossing that connects Bypass with Santoshpur. “People have to cross the long stretch with a bit of risk. There is no allotted time for pedestrian movement and most of us have to reach the meridian separator and wait for a second time for the traffic lights to turn red for cars. With slow-moving and two-wheeler vehicles also sharing space with cars and buses and the adjoining service load carrying heavy load, the Ajay Nagar crossing is a major source of trouble. Also, when the Metro gets operational, pedestrian movement will increase manifold,” said an officer.
 
  
  
 “There are vehicles from Garia taking the open left and cars from Ajay Nagar taking an open left towards Ruby, making it difficult for pedestrians to cross this junction,” said Sreeparna Roy, a resident of Survey Park.
 
 At Ruby crossing, the new traffic guard outpost will make it easier to transmit signals between this spot and the Kasba police guard at Rashbehari connector. It will also provide a spot for officers to analyse CCTV footage and strategize about deploying manpower at two major points — the pedestrian crossing and the ongoing Metro work.
 
 Both Kolkata Police and their counterparts in Bidhannagar agree that they require better coordination to make the Chingrighata crossing accident free.
 
 “We currently allow 40 seconds for pedestrian dispersal. But vehicles are allowed to come out of Sector V and turn towards Ultadanga and   to cross over during the same interval to avoid major stagnation on the Bypass. But in the process, movement of vehicles from Sector V towards Science City is getting restricted and snarls can form from as far as Nicco Park during rush hours,”said an officer.
 
 “The waiting time has climbed up to more than 20 minutes between Nicco Park and Chingrighata crossing in the evening. Sometimes this stretches to around half-an-hour,” said Arnab Mondal, a government bus driver plying between Jadavpur and Karunamoyee.
 
