DHASER (Handia): For 23-year-old   Singh, who belongs to Allahabad and bagged the all-India eight rank in this year’s civil services examination, it was a childhood memory which motivated him to choose a career in public service.

 A native of of Dhaser village of   in Handia tehsil, Anubhav was just four when he saw a poor peasant Lalmani in his village die after catching a cold.
 
 “I was shocked to see someone die just because of common cold and there was no medical aid which could have
 
 been provided to him at that time,” said Anubhav, who cleared the civil services examination for the second time in a row.
 
 He first cleared the   ( ) examination in 2016, when he was selected for Indian Revenue Services ( ). However, he decided to give it another shot as he was dissatisfied with his rank.
 
 Anubhav’s father Dhananjay Singh is a farmer and his mother Sushma is clerk in a private school and he gives the credit for his success to his parents. A meritorious student, Anubhav scored 73% in class X and 85% in class XII. After passing class XII, Anubhav got into Indian Institute of Technology-Roorkee.
 
 He said, “Till Class XII, I was not proficient in English. It was only during my engineering that I worked on my English speaking skills.”
 
 Anubhav said that people often think that only aspirants who have studied in urban areas or convent schools can clear the Civil Services examination. “Actually, the exam is only for those who are ready to work hard.”
 
 Talking about the craze among students to appear for civil services, the former IITian said, “There should not be a mad rush to become an IAS officer. Every student should first assess himself for herself and then decide if it’s their domain or not.”
 
 He said aspirants should not believe anything that coaching institute offering guidnace for UPPSC examination say. “One should not just go with hearsay but choose their options judiciously,” said Anubhav, who did not join any coaching for his preparation. He said in future he wants to work towards ensuring that children in villages have more opportunities.
 
