MUZAFFARNAGAR: Be it about  , portraits of national leaders like Gandhi and Bose or portrayal of mother-child bond, Mohd Sadiq Zaidi has been decking the walls of the crowded   with evocative art on social and family-oriented themes.

 In his 11 months in prison, Zaidi has made 40 wall paintings depicting subjects ranging from Hindu-Muslim unity, the Indian armed forces and mother-child bonding. “Last year in summer, former district magistrate Dinesh Singh allowed me to step out of jail and paint the walls of government buildings. Months later, a local   named   spotted my work and offered to help me. I am grateful to them,” Zaidi said.
 
 Zaidi, who was convicted in March 2017 for trying to kill his wife over dowry, is serving a10-year sentence. An artist by profession, the 40-year-old claims he was framed and has filed an appeal in the high court. The jail authorities have allowed him to paint on the walls, and have even paid for the paint and brushes he needs.
 
 Zaidi was 26 years old when he was married to Tehsin Zehra in 2004. “I distinctly remember that time. I was very happy. Though I wasn’t earning much at that time and Tehsin often complained about that, I was hopeful about a bright future,” he said. While Zaidi belongs to a lower middle class family based in Kidwai Nagar in Muzaffarnagar district, Tehsin’s parents are financially well-off and are settled in Kairana, Shamli district.
 
 “Over time, we began quarrelling quite frequently. There weren’t many takers for my paintings and that is why I barely made enough to sustain my family,” Zaidi admitted. On October 6, 2010, Tehsin filed a complaint against Zaidi and his parents and the latter were booked for dowry harassment and attempt to murder. They were arrested by local police, but were granted bail in a couple of months. After a long trial that went on for nearly seven years, Zaidi was sentenced to 10 years in jail by a local court on March 10, 2017.
 
 On Wednesday, Nadir Rana, Nidhish Garg and Devraj Panwar, members of Alliance Club, visited the jail and honored the “gifted artist” with a shawl. “He is a gifted man. We will try to provide legal assistance to him and have already discussed his case with a high court lawyer. We are also thinking of organising an auction to sell his work,” said Nadir Rana.
 
  jail superintendent AK Saxena said that Zaidi’s conduct has been as good as his paintings.
 
 One of the things that Zaidi misses most in jail is spending time with his little daughter. “She is living with her mother and has never come to visit me. She is 11 years old now. I miss her terribly,” he said, while declining to share her name. “I don’t want people to know that her father is in jail.”
 
 
