KOCHI: Last year, the education dep artment issued closure notices to 76 schools in   district that were teaching CBSE syllabus without being affiliated to the board.

 Only seven schools have expressed willingness to comply.
 
 CA Santosh, deputy director of education, Ernakulam, said that only seven schools out of the 76 will cease to operate by the end of the next year.
 
 This will be done after ensuring that the students have been transferred to neighbouring schools.
 
 Around 30 schools have obtained a stay order against the notice, allowing them to continue their operations. The DDE said that most schools that were issued a closure notice had either not applied for a   from the state education department or were not issued one despite applying.
 
  
  
 “Some of these schools had applied for NOC. But they lack facilities and infrastructure that are required to operate a school as per the requirement of the Right to Education ( ) Act. The closure notices were issued as per the Act,” said Santhosh.
 
 Ten schools did not respond to these notices at all, while around 29 schools wrote back to the DDE.
 
 “Some schools have written to us stating reasons why they should be allowed to continue and why they have been operating without a NOC. All such letters have been taken into consideration. Schools which have provided arguments that are not valid will be issued another closure notice,” said Santhosh.
 
 T P M Ibrahim Khan, president of  , said that closure notices issued by the department is against the spirit of the RTE act.
 
 “It is not appropriate on the department’s part to issue closure notices without first seeking a response from them. Just asking schools to cease operations is in fact against the spirit of right to education,” said Khan.
 
 A senior official with the education department said that problem of unauthorized schools can only be resolved if the state government intervenes.
 
 “Though the RTE Act permits us to send closure notices, it is not clear how they can be executed. Every time we send a notice to these schools most of them obtain stay orders. The only way this problem will be resolved is when the state government decides to take the issue seriously. In the court the issue should be presented by the advocate general and not just any governmentpleader,”saidthe official.
 
