KOCHI: The 10th accused in the case, in which a man committed suicide after a gang attacked his house at   on Friday, died in a city hospital on Monday evening. The   has asked the DGP to conduct an SP-level inquiry and submit a detailed report after the family of   S Ralleged custodial torture.

 Sreejith, 26, a resident of Devaswompadam, Varapuzha, was picked up from his residence around 11pm on Friday by plainclothes policemen. Around 4am on Sunday, he was brought to the emergency department of Aster Medcity on referral from   in a critical condition.
 
 
 On arrival, he complained of abdominal pain, vomiting and inability to pass urine. “Evaluation suggested of intra-abdominal injuries that needed emergency surgery. After surgery, he was shifted to the ICU and put on ventilator. His condition continued to be critical. He passed away around 7pm on Monday,” hospital sources said.
 
 Though Sreejith, a painter by profession, was under police custody when shifted to the hospital,   acting chairman P Mohanadas, who visited the hospital on Monday afternoon, found that no police personnel was present at the hospital.
 
 “We suspect it to be a case of custodial torture leading to death. I have spoken to the doctors and family members and believe that the injury was caused when he was in custody. I have instructed the DGP for an SP-level probe and sought a detailed report. Also, Varapuzha sub-inspector   has been asked to be personally present in the next hearing on April 23,” said Mohanadas.
 
 He said that when he went to the hospital he found Sreejith in a state of coma. On speaking to the surgeon who operated him and ICU doctors, he learnt that there was 75% cut in jejunum, a part of the small intestine, and he had developed infection. Also, due to stress, he suffered cardiac arrest.
 
 Later, Sreejith’s wife informed the SHRC acting chairman that her husband was tortured by police and when they met him at the police station on Saturday morning he had complained of stomach ache and despite request to take him to hospital, he was denied medical aid and even water. SHRC has recorded all these statements.
 
 Meanwhile, Varapuzha police have denied the allegation. “We have just learnt about his death and are looking into the matter,” said an officer.
 
 Varapuzha police had registered a case against 14 persons and arrested10 in connection with the death of a 55-year-old man, who was found hanging in his house after a gang attacked his house on April 6. Meanwhile, the DGP has asked IG (Kochi range) Vijay Sakhare to conduct a detailed probe into the incident and submit a report to him. Following the incident,   has called for a dawn-to-dusk hartal in Paravur constituency on Tuesday.
 
