KOLKATA: Kolkata’s clubs are looking forward to their first “wet Holi” after a Bengal government decision to scrap dry days altogether from these establishments.

 Bengal now has the lowest number of dry days in the country following a 2016 circular that reduced the number of days when alcohol cannot be sold from 12 to only four-and-a-half (Independence Day, Republic Day, the 10th day of Muharram, Gandhi Jayanti and Dol Jatra, when outlets open after 4pm).
 
 But, with the government following up on that circular by bringing clubs entirely out of the purview of dry days, 2018 is the first year when they do not have a single no-alcohol day. And this Dol, which is on Thursday, will be the first when club members will be able to celebrate the festival of colours with their favourite poison, if they want to.
 
 Members of most most clubs say the state government decision has done away with the hassle of having to stock up on liquor before a dry day. “I do not have to set a reminder for myself to stock up before every dry day any more. I can just head to the club with friends and family if someone wants to have a couple of pegs,”   secretary Chandan Roychoudhury said.
 
 Most clubs, encouraged by their members’ response, are making full use of this opportunity and have lined up a host of special programmes — accompanied by food and liquor — on March 1.
 
 “We are over-booked on Thursday,” Outram Club president Sudipta Bose said, adding that special programmes would start the evening before and continue till the afternoon of March 1. “Rajasthani food will add spice to Bollywood retro songs and the theme will be Rang Barse, taking off from the Amitabh Bachchan   number in Silsila,” he said. “But liquor being there will make the biggest difference,” Bose added.
 
 Lake Club joint secretary Debu Dutta agreed. “We will serve khichdi with mutton curry and there will be ethnic music and dance but the biggest plus this year is Holi being ‘wet’ from the morning,” he said.
 
 Tolly Club has not planned anything special for a “wet” Holi but CEO Anil Mukherjee said the bars would be open for an entire Holi day for the first time this year. “We are bracing ourselves for much more footfall because of this and have told all staffers to be ready for this,” he added.
 
 New Town’s NKDA Club member Rupanjan Mukherjee is one of those who will be heading for his club this Holi. “Removing restrictions does make planning for festivals a lot easier,” he said.
 
 Eastern Metropolitan Club secretary Sanjib Ghosh said the club, taking advantage of the change in rules, had planned a special programme with Tollywood celebrities on March 1.
 
 “Not having a dry day makes business sense for clubs,” Saturday Club ex-president Soumitra Ghosh said. But some clubs are wary of the steep hike in licence fees and hope that this does not offset the gains from the zero-dry-day rule.
 
