CHANDIGARH: The   government will soon be coming up with 'The Conflict of Interest (Prevention and Management) Act, 2018' to unseat the chief minister, ministers, assembly speaker and other legislators in case they are found having business interests in their official capacity. 

 A senior officer told TOI that the draft bill was under preparation and the state government would take the ordinance route to bring in the law. 
 
 "It is too early to bring the draft bill in the next cabinet on April 30. But it is expected to be finalized by next month," said the officer.
 
 In the run up to the 2017 state assembly polls, the Congress had promised in its election manifesto to come up with the Conflict of Interest Act. The state Congress government had been under attack from rival Aam Aadmi Party ( ) for going back on its election promise.
 
 Apart from various provisions in the Act, it is learnt that the draft bill could have the provision necessitating legislators as well as government officials to furnish disclosure of their personal and family members' interest in various businesses.
 
 Earlier,   Aman Arora had submitted a private member's bill, 'The Punjab Unseating of Members of Legislative Assembly found indulging in Conflict of Interest Bill, 2018' in the budget session in March.
 
 After the assembly speaker Rana K P Singh rejected the bill on March 27, the AAP MLAs had staged a walkout. As per AAP's proposed bill, any MLA found furthering own private interests, financial or commercial, directly or indirectly, at the cost of state's interest shall be unseated within six months.
 
 Earlier, various questions were raised on the conflicting interests of then power minister in the Congress government Rana Gurjeet Singh. Advocate Hari Chand Arora had even filed a public interest litigation in the Punjab and Haryana high court challenging Rana's appointment.
 
 He had sought directions to restrain Rana from dealing with the affairs of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), especially revision of tariff rates and to shut down thermal plants since Rana and his wife held majority shares in a private power producing company. Chief minister Amarinder Singh had accepted Rana's resignation from the council of ministers on January 18, after allegations against him in the mining auction scam last year.
 
 Pushing the bill, AAP had been reasoning that various mafias in the business of land, sand and transport would not have flourished without the backing of politicians in successive government.
 
  This could have avoided had a law existed to guard against conflict of interests, AAP legislators had argued.
 
 
