MOHALI: A 50-year-old worker was burnt to death after a major fire broke out in Maghu solvent recovery plant in Behra village, Derabassi, on Monday night. Seven fire tenders were pressed into service to control the fire. Three ambulances were also present at the spot.

  
  
 
 According to the police, the deceased has been identified as a Rakesh Kumar Minhas (50), a resident of Chaunta village in Gurdaspur district. Presently, he was residing in Collage Colony, Derabassi. He is survived by his two daughters and wife.
 
 The fire broke out at 9.30pm on Monday. The fire flames were reportedly around 80 feet high. The fire officials struggled for nearly five hours to control the fire. The cooling process concluded on Tuesday morning around 11am.
 
 After the death of the worker,   police have booked the management of the chemical plant under 304-A (Causing death by negligence) of the IPC at Derabassi police station.
 
 Police officials said Rakesh Kumar received 80% burn injuries in the incident. He was immediately rushed to the government hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh, where the doctors declared him brought  .
 
 Meanwhile, the eyewitness describes there were 7 workers in the plant when the incident occurred. However, six workers managed to flee the building but Rakesh Kumar was trapped in the flames. After receiving the information, SDM Derabassi Parmjeet Singh, ASP Harman Hans and Derabassi station house officer Mohinder Singh immediately reached the spot.
 
 According to the firefighters, the blasts were probably triggered after a boiler containing solvent burst under high pressure. However, the actual cause of the fire is yet to be determined.
 
 According to the fire officials, they received information about the incident around 9.45pm on Monday and immediately three fire tenders from Derabassi fire station, one from Chandigarh, two from Panchkula and one from Mohali fire station reached the spot.
 
 Derabassi fire station house officer Kaur Singh said they had received information around 9.30pm and sent the fire engines without wasting any time. He also said a blast in the plant triggered the fire and after that there were more blasts inside the plant.
 
 Sanjeev Kumar, who works in a nearby factory, said the entire plant was reduced to ashes. According to him, around 9.30pm, he and his friend, Surinder Singh, saw the fire. His friend informed the fire officials.
 
 Investigation officer Harjeet Singh said, “We have registered a case against the management of the chemical plant under 304-A of the IPC at Derabassi police station. We will take further action after the autopsy report.” 
 
 
