GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning ( ) has approached the district administration, seeking sufficient security personnel and personal guards while officials carry out demolition drives. The demand was raised by the town planning department after its teams had come under attack from people living in illegal structures during demolition drives.

 An MCG team, which was following a high court order to demolish illegal structures that fall within 300m radius of the  , was also attacked by a huge mob of locals on Wednesday evening. District town planner   was severly injured in the attack.
 
 The mob had started pelting stones to prevent the team from carrying out demolitions. While trying to escape, Singh fell and broke his arm. Two team members also received minor injuries, while four vehicles were damaged. Singh had alleged that “had cops done their duty, none of us would have been injured, but they stood like mute spectators even after we pleaded with them to bail us out”.
 
 On Thursday, DTCP razed around 160 hutments and 24 newly constructed labour quarters in village Hasanpur area amid protests. The encroachments were cleared from a plot of over six acres. The illegal structures were erected on an agriculture land and were leased out to a developer who is constructing a housing complex in the vicinity. The developer had also stored building materials and scaffoldings were stored on the farmland.
 
 When a team comprising district town planner RT Sharma, two assistant town planners, four junior engineers and other demolition staffers reached the spot, the land owners protested the drive. The women in the area also resisted the move by pelting stones and indulging in altercation giving a harrowing time to law enforcers. It took around an hour and a half for the duty magistrate and cops to bring the situation under control. Police had to put protesters under house arrest to carry out the drive which finally could commence around 3pm.
 
 The district town planner on Friday took up the problems they face during demolition drives in a meeting with deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh and police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar.
 
 “We have spoken to the administration and police and sought ample security on the spots where demolition drives would be carried out. Also, we need women cops in sufficient numbers because we face resistance from women too. On Thursday, the women were at the forefront of agitation,” DTP Sharma said.
 
 
