NOIDA: The   called by the Indian Medical Association ( ) to oppose the   (NMC) Bill had a partial effect in GB Nagar district as some   shut down their OPD services but the turnout of patients was far less than on other days.

 In most private hospitals, doctors were available to examine patients who were in a serious condition but refused to operate a full-fledged OPD. Some dejected patients could be seen returning from the private centres saying they would have to return to get check-ups done. However, some doctors continued to run the OPDs secretively.
 
 At Kailash hospital in Sector 27, the dental and gynaecology OPDs remained closed and only emergency services were being run. “There are around 250 doctors in all but on Tuesday, around 60 doctors worked in emergency services,” a spokesperson for the hospital said, adding that there was one doctor in the paediatric OPD.
 
 Kaveri, a resident of Sector 36, told  , “My grandson Soham is feverish for the past three days. We came to get him checked by a known consultant but got to know that he wasn’t available on Tuesday. We will go again on Wednesday.”
 
 Meanwhile, the in-patient departments were functioning in all the hospitals. 
 
 A statement from Fortis hospital in Sector 60 said, “The IMA and doctors from across the country have called for a protest against the NMC Bill. In solidarity with the cause, we have decided to wear black badges and display notices expressing our support.”
 
 A spokesperson for Jaypee hospital said its OPD services were closed but emergency and in-patient services were running.
 
 However, sources said in most of these hospitals, doctors had attended to OPD patients early in the morning.
 
 In Kailash hospital of Greater Noida, some patients turned up for a check-up and regular services were provided between 12.30-1.30 pm. However, in other hospitals such as Sharda, Navin and Yatharth, Greater Noida, the OPDs services remained shut.
 
 It was late afternoon by the time the news of the bill being sent to the parliamentary standing committee was spread. Following this the IMA members withdrew their strike. 
 
 Sunil Awana, treasurer, IMA Noida chapter, said the IMA has flagged certain doubtful parts in the bill. 
 
 “We will wait for the response of the parliamentary standing committee. In case the demands are not included, we will go on strike again,” he said.
 
 
