CHENNAI: The 69th pontiff of the Kancheepuram Sankara Mutt, Jayendra Saraswathi, passed away early Wednesday morning. He was 82. After his morning routine, the acharya complained of breathlessness and was taken to the mutt hospital in Kancheepuram where doctors tried to revive him, but failed and declared him dead.

 “Acharya read the morning newspapers, gave darshan to devotees and went for his bath. As he came out, he sat down and did not seem well. We immediately called the doctors, who after examining him, advised us to take the acharya to hospital,” manager N Sundaresan said. Cardiac experts tried to revive him for 45 minutes but failed. After taking an ECG, the doctors announced that the seer had ‘attained samadhi’, said Sundaresan.
 
 
  
 
 The seer’s mortal remains will be laid to rest on the mutt premises behind the Paramacharya’s brindavan. The last rites will be held at 8am on Thursday.
 
 Vijayendra Saraswathi to formally take charge
 
 Sundaresan said, “Devotees can pay homage to the acharya through the night, till 7am on Thursday. After this we will have to perform special rituals befitting the acharya before laying his mortal remains to rest.”
 
 The street walls in the town, famous for its silks, were splashed with posters of AIADMK partymen, condoling the seer’s death. Several political party leaders, including the Prime Minister’s office, spoke to the mutt management on hearing the news. “But, there is no confirmation so far about any of them attending the funeral,” he said. There was a stream of devotees and VIPs to the mutt after news broke about the pontiff’s death.
 
 Junior pontiff Vijayendra Saraswathi along with other senior mutt officials and well-wishers were seated close to the seer’s body. “The last prayer the acharya attended was Tuesday’s ‘pradosha’ puja,” said Sundaresan. Jayendra took charge of the mutt administration after the death of the Paramacharya in 1994 and expanded its activities in the fields of education and health care.
 
 With the passing away of the seer, Vijayendra Saraswathi will formally take charge of the mutt’s administration after rituals are completed. Scores of political leaders led by TN deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam paid homage. TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar, DMDK leader Vijayakanth, R K Nagar MLA TTV Dhinakaran,   state leaders Tamilisai Soundararajan, H Raja and Rajya Sabha MP L Ganesan, DMK MLAs led by former minister T M Anbarasan, danseuse Padma Subrahmanyam visited the mutt and paid homage.
 
 
 PM  , Congress president Rahul Gandhi, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and several other leaders condoled the death through tweets and statements.
 
