KOCHI:  , a veteran   and trailblazer who defied gender norms, passed away here at 8.35pm on Sunday. She was 87. The end, due to age related problems, came at a home of the aged in Kochi, where she was admitted three months ago.

 
 She was shifted there from a private hospital and had not been conscious since she also suffered breathing problems as well hypertension.
 
 Leela Menon was born at Vengola in Ernakulam district on November 10, 1932 and was the youngest daughter of Janakiamma and  . After completing her college education at the Nizam College in Hyderabad in 1949, she joined the postal department to become the first Indian telegraphist. 
 
 The path breaking career in news media began in 1978 after she left the Indian Postal Department to join the  , Delhi as a sub-editor.
 
 She shifted to Kerala in 1982 and worked with the newspaper till 2000. In an era with very few opportunities for woman in media, she broke the glass ceiling by breaking several stories of national relevance like the rampant poverty and prostitution at Aruvacode in Malappuram district, Vypeen hooch tragedy, Suryanelli case and Thopumpaddy prostitution racket. Later she became the chief editor of Janmabhoomi, a position she held till her death.
 
 Former resident editor, New Indian Express, M K Das said that she was very conscientious reporter and a willing colleague. “Leela Menon was also a very lively person, ready to go out and do stories and competing with young reporters, half her age. She came out with very good news reportage and was a role model for youngsters. She stood for gender equality and did several path-breaking stories while working with the Indian Express,” he said.
 
 Her autobiography ‘Nilykatha Symphony’, published in 2007, chronicles her journey as a woman journalist and also her battles with cancer and how she came out of it. He body will kept at Town Hall from 10am to 12pm for the public to pay homage. The cremation will be held at the Ravipuram crematorium at 1pm.
 
