PUNE: Whispering sweet nothings into your partner’s ear is passé. Gifting an experience is in. 

 Right from surprising their sweethearts with a bouquet in hand and a guitarist in tow playing a romantic number to cutting a cake several thousand feet above the ground in a private jet, Punekars are going beyond the mushy and mundane.
 
  
  
 
 Srija Koduru, chief experiences officer,  , a curated surprise gifts and experiences provider, said that people across age groups are more interested in sharing experiences with their partners rather than just giving them gifts. 
 
 “This desire to do something different has led more and more people to surprise their partners with experiences,” she said. The weider the experience , the better.
 
 Koduru said a large number of vendors have joined the bandwagon to provide a wide variety of “experiences” to couples to make their Valentine’s Day memorable and one they will cherish for a long time. Among the experiences listed by Oye Happy on its website are a private helicopter ride with cake cutting, paragliding, hot air balloon ride, balloon decorations, private candle light dinner and much more.
 
 Kunal Raut of Sky Waltz, which provides hot air balloon safaris at  , said, “People want to experience things so they are opting for different ways to make Valentine’s Day special for their partners. It is different experience to soar high above the ground in a hot air ballon and float close to the Sahaydri ranges or above   river. savouring the beauty all around. We do only hot air balloon safari every morning and already have already received three bookings for Valentine’s Day. We will be bringing a cake on board which couples can cut while flying on hot air balloon. We have also arranged a 15 ftx5 ft banner with a message which will be displayed on the ground and have to be viewed from the top.”
 
 Many are also opting for something less extravagant like hiring a guitarist to surprise their partner. 
 
 “We offer musical florigrams which involves a guitarist reaching a destination and surprising a person with a bouquet, a cake and some melodies. Last Valentine’s Day, we had delivered close to 200 musical florigrams across the city and expect a similar response this year. There are many who have opted to surprise their partners with a room full of numerous bouquets,” said Ravneet Rajpal, owner of Florista Wanowrie.
 
 When it comes to love, most Punekars are not averse to opening their purse strings. 
 
 “About 35% of our clientele in Pune is ready to spend between Rs 20,000-Rs 25,000 for a romantic experience. About 10% of the people from Pune are ready to spend even higher for experiences like a private jet plane ride to any part of the country for a romantic dinner and the return to Pune. In 2017, we crossed 500 orders. Since February 1, we have started receiving approximately 400 to 500 orders daily from across the country, 20% of which are from Pune,” said Koduru.
 
 
 
 
 
