Picture this: You have gone to watch a play and end up eating yummy street food on stage. An immersive   experience, Aruna Ganesh Ram’s latest directorial, titled ‘Stand on the Street’, brings roadside food and performing arts under one roof. Sundal (from Chennai), Jhal Muri (from Kolkata), Momos (from the Northeast) Litti Chokha (from Bihar) and Paan (from Banaras), the audiences can enjoy heady culinary episodes on a 360 degree stage, as the characters essay the curious life stories of food vendors on the road.

  Set to premiere at   in Bengaluru this weekend, the play is crafted by Visual Respiration, and the cast includes actors   and Anjana Balaji, portraying several roles. The team has reconstructed multiple cities on the stage through signage, billboards and by installing a host of other quintessential elements. 
 
  “Our culinary journey spanned a period of three months, during which we were in conversation with more than 200 vendors from across the country – capturing their stories, insights and recipes, and curating that in the form of a compelling performance. The idea behind it was to hear out the struggles and moments of glory of these food vendors who are synonymous with our everyday life,” says Aruna, adding, “In the play, the audience will eat street food as they watch the performance. We have learnt to cook almost all the food that we are serving. And the learning is the result of the time spent on the road, keen observation and, of course, our love for street food.”
 
  Talking about her ‘food trip’, Anjana says, “It was quite interesting to meet the women vendors on the street. They don’t just strive for independence and claim their own space, but also support their families through the earnings they make by selling savouries on the road.” Meanwhile for Aditya, walking along the lanes of Banaras was the most intriguing bit of the journey. “Be it politics or personal stories, paan-wallahs have an opinion about everything happening in their 
  as well as the whole country. A conversation with them is always engaging. The play brings together food, theatre and masks in a never-before-seen fashion,” he sums up.
 
  
 
 
 
