Ludhiana: A local court has awarded rigorous imprisonment of seven years each to two men for robbing and assaulting a former FCI official.

 The court of additional sessions judge K S Sular also imposed a fine of Rs 4,000 each on the convicts, identified as Bikker Singh of Khanna and Nek Ram of Malerkotla. In case, the duo fails to pay the fine, they have to further undergo imprisonment of nine months.
 
 The incident dates back to December 10, 2015, when the duo had attacked Daulat Ram Sharma of Khanna when he was going to a vend in the area.
 
 Former manager with Food Corporation of India (FCI) Daulat Ram Sharma had come to Malerkotla Chowk in Khanna on his scooter to buy cigarettes at 11pm.
 
 As he had found the vend closed, he started his journey towards his house. He said on the way, an auto-rickshaw stopped in front of his vehicle and Nek Ram, who worked at a liquor vend, got down from it.
 
 Later, Bikker Singh also got down from the auto and pointed a sharp-edged weapon at Daulat Ram, asking him to hand over the cash.
 
 When Daulat resisted their attempt, Bikkar Singh attacked him with the weapon. As the former FCI official fell down, the duo thrashed him and snatched his mobile and wallet containing Rs 2,000 cash.
 
 On December 13, 2015, Khanna city police station booked Bikker Singh and Nek Ram under Sections 394 (causing hurt in committing robbery), 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC.
 
 Later the cops added Section 325 (Punishment for voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 397 (Robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) in the FIR.
 
 Later the accused were arrested and a challan was presented against them in the court of law.
 
 The additional public prosecutor for state pleaded for punishment to the accused on the basis of prosecution witness and other evidence.
 
 The court after taking evidence on the record convicted the duo.
 
 
