NAVI MUMBAI: Corporators in the   on Monday moved a motion to file a case under Prevention of Atrocities Act against civic chief Sudhakar Shinde. 

 This is the third case in recent months of a tussle between elected representatives and bureaucrats. Corporators had recently gone after Thane Municipal Corporation commissioner Sanjeev Jaiswal and Tukaram Mundhe when he was the head of the  . 
  
  
 The   general body on Monday unanimously passed a resolution seeking a case against Shinde under the Prevention of Atrocities Act for not using funds meant for the welfare of backward classes and Divyangs. 
 
 Earlier in the day, a rally by Divyangs and Dalits to demand Shinde’s transfer stalled the PCMC proceedings for 20 minutes. After the house reassembled, BJP corporator Jagdish Gaikwad raised the funds issue and slum rehabilitation committee chairperson Prakash Binedar sought replies. As officials failed to provide expenditure figures, Binedar asked corporators to move a motion to book Shinde. The motion, which was seconded by Gaikwad and BSKP leader Surekha Mohekar, was unanimously passed.
 
 A conflict has been simmering between Shinde and the ruling BJP representatives and the latter had planned to bring a no-confidence motion against the commissioner after they failed to get him transferred. His drives against encroachers and hawkers were reportedly not well-received by netas.
 
 Activist Ravi Srivastava said, “He is an honest administrator and a no-nonsense man, He did not allow anyone to grab public money.” 
 
 Former BMC secretary Narayan Pathare said, “As the resolution is against the authority who is supposed to implement a resolution, the mayor and civic body members have to file a case. The civic chief can also take the resolution to the state government and get it cancelled within 45 days. If no one insists on implementation, it can be put in abeyance.”
 
 PCMC mayor Dr Kavita Choutmol said, “I will have to file the case as no one has come to cancel the resolution.”
 
 “I have worked for citizens and development of the city,” Shinde said. (Inputs by B B Nayak & Manoj Badgeri)
 
 
