We are in the middle of the fest season and with all the important college fests lined up this month and the next, DU's college societies are working hard for their annual performances. Whether it is theatre, dance, fashion or music, every society puts its best foot forward. In this week's campus section, we bring to you the planning, execution, hard work and all the ‘drama’ that goes into making an annual theatre production – both stage and street – possible. While we only get to see the end product, there are many who work only behind the stage and are equally important for a play and the society.

  
  A street play done by one of the DU colleges 
 
  
 
 
  While the entire society comes together to prepare for a street play, the making of a stage production is more personal and limited to the seniors. Each play has a director who is a third-year student and has second-years working under him/her as assistant directors, and also to manage the lights, props, costumes and makeup for the play. Anish, from  , tells us, "Since this is the first time we are doing our stage production, we chose three directors for the play. Instead of adapting any play, we decided to write one on our own." Shambhavi Singh, president of Lakshya, Kamala Nehru College, elaborates, "We provide an open platform for intensive deliberation and discussions to select the topic for our production. After the topic is selected, we have our head script writer who combines all the ideas provided by the team into the script, which gives an outline of the play. The selected actors are given the freedom to take the story forward. The director helps the actors improvise the scenes." Prerak from KVM adds, "Once we decide if we wish to adapt or write a script, everything is decided by the director, who is a third-year, and everyone – right from actors to assistant directors – works according to the vision of the director."
 
  
  College students busy prepping up before the street play
 
 
 
 
 
  While the theatre societies start putting up their performances in the month of February and March, they start working on their production right after the semester ends in May. "At  , we start working on a production the month our semester ends. All those who continue working with the society, start looking for a topic. All the seniors choose their topics, and then discuss why it should be taken up. Once the topic is selected, the seniors then start researching on it, which continues for the next two months, before the new session starts. When we come back for the new session and select freshers for the society, we share the research with them for their inputs as well," says Rishika Mody, president of Lady  's dramatics society. Prerak Sharma, president of Shades,  's theatre society, adds, "We have a discussion that takes place within the 32 members of the society. Sab milke apne topics decide karte hain. Then we discuss about the things we can talk about in our plays. Then, in the next 45 days, we discuss the topics that each team member presents and we discuss their research work before finalizing one topic."
 
  
  Students performing a stage play
 
  
 
  Placards are an important part of a street play. Shambhavi Singh, president of Lakshya, Kamala Nehru College, says, "The most powerful dialogues are used as placards. When the audience looks at them, they understand what we are trying to say." Rishika adds, "A member in the audience may join our play in the middle of any scene, so we use placards to give a summary of the entire scene."
 
  
  Students making placards before the play
 
  
 
  The members of the theatre societies of DU colleges say that stage production is not possible without the production team. The team looks after the lights, props, makeup and costumes for any play. "Every play is fully supported by the hard work of the production team, which includes makeup artists, the prop team and the light and sound team, who make sure that the play goes glitch-free and that the director's vision and its execution is presented beautifully," says Shambhavi. Krishna from   adds, "Sounds and lights are the most important technical aspects of a stage play. We take sounds and lights very seriously, and assign people accordingly to these posts who manage the lights for a play. Set design, what we see on stage on the day of the performance, is one of the most important parts as it has to complement the story of the play. Also, the colour of the set should complement the colour of the costumes. Makeup, again, is one such thing which helps the audience to see what we want them to see. The beauty of makeup comes across when the same person plays the role of a 10-year-old and a 60-year-old in the same play." Nimisha, from Gargi College, concludes by saying that the positioning of a prop on the stage can make or break any play. "In some productions, your props become the main element. Like last year, we did a play called 'The Shit Hole'. In that play, the toilet seat became our element. So your props also become characters."
 
  
  Lights and sound are used to add additional effects to the play 
 
 
 
  After the topic is decided and researched upon, another round of research takes place. During this time, each member tries to find and bring everything interesting about the finalized topic. Whether it is the statements, the quotes used in media and the advertisements, the theatre societies try to find everything that would help them in explaining their point. The next step after this is scene making. "Scene making for me is the best part of the process. That is the time you get to see the potential in everyone, in terms of writing, direction and acting. But we don’t segregate people in different segments, because if we do it, how will they learn something which is out of their comfort zone? By the end of scene making, we usually find that everybody has the potential to write, direct and act," says Krishna Sharma, president of Ibtida, Hindu College. Anish Bhat, president of Anubhuti, Sri Venkateswara College, adds, "We jot down all the important points of the topic. We begin our research again on all the points so that the topic stays in our mind. We start with finalizing each and every scene on paper. There are specific people who write the scenes and we also include freshers who can write. When one scene gets completed, we execute it. The final call is taken by the third year students, and then there are a few people who are more inclined towards direction. So the entire society depends on them for that."
 
  
  Most of the scene making process involves seniors
 
 
 
  When the societies conduct auditions, they also select some people only because of their inclination towards music. And it is later that they are taught writing, directing and acting, like other members. "When we select freshers, we train them at a music workshop as well. We have a music director for the play who tells us if the music is going with the theme or not. Everyone in the team jams and we make songs during our jamming sessions. The music director helps in putting everything together," explains Rishika. Lakshita Arora, president of Kshitij, Gargi College's street play society, adds, "In my initial two years, we had a senior with a music background who would help us in creating music for the plays. But when you start rehearsing for the play, the music comes naturally because you know the kind of music you want for your play."
 
  
  Theatre artists are trained at music workshops as well
 
 
  
 
