BENGALURU: The road beneath the  ,  , had to be dug up to two-and-half-feet after an extra-long vehicle carrying a giant statue of Lord Hanuman got stuck under it on Saturday night. 

 The truck finally resumed its journey after the height barriers on both sides of the bridge were removed on Sunday morning. 
 
 The truck carrying the 750-tonne, 62-foot-tall   came to an abrupt halt near the railway bridge at 7pm. The vehicle, which left Kolar on March 27, is heading towards Kacharakanahalli in the city where the statue is to be installed. 
 
  
 Earlier, trustees and other officials from the Hanuman statue committee had claimed that the route map they chose was clear and that the truck carrying the statue would reach the destination without any hindrance.
 
  
 “Only on reaching the height barrier did the truck driver realise that the vehicle can’t pass under the bridge. The truck was stopped in the middle of the road, causing a huge jam on Hennur Main Road,” Banaswadi traffic police said. A rough calculation by BBMP engineers showed the statute, as it lay on the vehicle, was 2-feet taller than the bridge and the barriers.
 
  
 Immediately, the road between the height barriers, about 100 metres long, was dug up, police said. “BBMP engineers monitored the work and the road was dug up to 2.5 feet. Around 11pm, the two height barriers were also removed,” police said.
 
  
 But the truck still couldn’t move due to the road median. “On Sunday morning, the median between the two barriers and five electric poles between them had to be removed,” a police oficer said.
 
  
 Traffic on Hennur Main Road moving towards the central business district was diverted from Ramamurthynagar and vehicles going towards Hennur were diverted through Mahadevapura Main Road.
 
 Residents of Hennur Main Road and areas nearby expressed dismay over the road’s condition. Nadia Zackria and Subramanya K, residents of Hennur and members of Hennur Taskers, a residents’ group, said proper planning by the authorities concerned could have saved the road from being dug up.
 
 “We aren’t sure when the road, median and the electric poles will be restored now. Traffic was clogged till 10pm on Saturday. Vehicles took more than two hours to cover a distance of 1km,” they said.
 
 Geddalahalli corporator Radhamma Venkatesh said the road will be fixed at the earliest.
 
 
