By S Ramesh Shankar

 I was recently at a business school attending a conference. The theme was  ,  . As I was speaking about the speed and rate of change in the environment around us, I highlighted digitalisation and its impact on  . This then led me to speak of three key competencies that students need to evolve to be successful in the business of tomorrow.
 
 Mindset: This is the first competency. Today, organisations recruit for mindset and not for skills. The belief is   can be developed. However, to change an adult’s mindset is difficult. Hence, it is critical to have the right attitude and mindset for change. We need to believe that the world is full of possibilities and we are here to make them happen. If we are able to evolve this mindset in ourselves, we are likely to be a winner in any environment.
 
 A positive attitude to work and life not only makes you a winner, it enables you to inspire your team. I have been privileged to work with leaders and teams, who believed in possibilities. This is indeed infectious and has led me to become an optimist in life. I don’t believe anything is impossible. It is only a factor of time and the efforts we put in to achieve our goal.
 
  & flexibility: This, in my view, is the second competency. A simple example could be our concept of  . We should be willing to pack our bags and work in any part of the world for any type of industry. Many of us are mobile, but conditionally. We are willing to be posted in metros in India, Europe or in the US. When asked if we are open to being posted in northeastern India, or for that matter in the African continent, we have excuses — ageing parents or kids in school. Unconditional mobility will take you places in your career. That would be   and adaptability in our career.
 
 Many of us are disappointed when we do not get a posting in a place of our choice. We start complaining from day one. We should consider it an opportunity to work in a new place rather than crib about not getting one’s preference. I was recently reading an article where the author was saying that she renamed her daily ‘to-do list’ to ‘Possibilities for the day’. This name change itself makes it flexible and possible. Otherwise, many of us make to-do lists that remain same for days.
 
 Learning attitude: This is the third competency. We need to be learning for life. There is no subject or field which has a first and a last chapter. We can never imagine ourselves to be a master in any field. Hence, it is critical to update ourselves every day and keep in tune with the real world. 
 
 For instance, if we consider social media, the youth are not on Facebook any more. They have moved on to Twitter or Instagram. Classroom training is not the only or the best way to learn any more. There are a myriad ways to keep learning every day.
 
 I have met people who are constantly learning languages, new skills and concepts all the time. Age, vocation or location is never a constraint. It is our mindset and adaptability which will evolve us as a lifelong learner. We can learn from everyone and every object around us. Nature has its unique ways of teaching us. It is up to us to inculcate a learning attitude in life.
 
 Hence, clearly, mindset, adaptability/flexibility and a learning attitude are key to future leaders. Why not reset and start today?
 
 The writer is executive vice-president & HR head, Siemens India. Views are personal
 
 
