The pretty   was familiar to the Malayali audience as a film actress, but became a household name after she captivated them with her role as Ponnu in the TV serial Ponnambili. Her sparkling eyes and that million-watt smile has made her a darling of telly viewers, so it doesn’t come as any surprise when she earned the top spot in Kochi Times  .
The dancer-turned-actress, who was also a model, has been continuing to wow the audience with her multi-lingual serial Nandini. Known for her girl-next-door looks, Malavika talks to us about being desirable, her goals in life and more.
 
 
 How does it feel to top the list?
 
 Lord! I feel privileged to win the title. I feel blessed and I owe this win to my parents especially my father who was a strong pillar in my life. Honestly, it is the love of the audience that has made me desirable. Being on top of the list in the television industry is a great honour. I see this title as a great responsibility as an actress. It is also a confidence booster for me as a person to work harder. 
 
 
 What according to you makes a woman desirable?
 
 Her personality. The aura she passes to others. She should succeed in passing a positive vibe to people whom she meets. There are some people even though they don’t talk and act, the sight of them will fill our minds with positivity. Personally, I believe more in the beauty within. But when it comes to the desirability of actresses, I think external beauty also matters.
 
 
 What are your strengths?
 
 I can adapt easily to any situation. For example, when I chose to join the multi-language serial Nandini I was worried about Telugu, which I was clueless about. But that said the acting classes at Anupam Kher sir’s institution had helped me evolve with the character no matter what the language is.
 Slowly, I got well versed in Telugu. I also don’t engage in negative situations or conversations. I am not affected by rumours and am an independent girl. That said, to act in my first serial   was my own individual decision. I decided to do it a few months after the demise of my father and I am grateful that I didn’t have to regret it. 
 I also try to keep myself healthy. Because of the busy shooting schedules, I would have to skip my daily gym regime, but I keep myself fit by practising yoga or taking a walk around the location.
 
 
 Despite acting in a few films, it was your stint in serials that made you a household name in Kerala. How do you respond to the acceptance of the audience?
 
 Yes, though I was introduced to films through  , for my Malayali audience I am still their Ponnu from Ponnambali serial. I am grateful to the show’s producers Sajin Raghavan and Manoj Kumar for that. To become a favourite of telly audience is akin to receiving a great award. By God’s grace, I have been able to sustain my acting career. After my first serial, I did Nandini and  . 
 Nandini helped me enjoy the love of non-Malayali audience too. Being single in real life, it was a novel experience for me to play a young mother and a wife in Ammuvinte Amma. I believe I did complete justice to become the emotive character Anupama and to portray her responsibilities onscreen. The transformation from sweet Ponnu to a matured Anupama was appreciated a lot by the audience.
 
 
 What milestones have you set for yourself?
 
 My mantra in life is whatever I become in life, I won’t let that change who I am. I always want to remain a down to earth and generous person in life. In my career, I will be careful choosing projects. Though I am receiving many movie offers, I am looking forward to a role which would give me a good appeal among the audience. So I am waiting for that trump card in my acting career.
 
