ZIRAKPUR: Be careful as you report the town’s civic issues online, as the civic body has two fake pages on   that misidentify this municipal council as “municipal corporation”.

 The civic authorities, meanwhile, are unaware that not only somebody is running websites in their name but also the residents are positing their civic issues on these portals. The sounding board of the Municipal Corporation of   website features 20 complaints related to blocked sewers, water overflow, non-functional street lights, encroachment, dumping of garbage, and the shifting of a cremation ground—which people have posted in the hope of quick redress.
 
 Another fake page operational online carries only the address and the picture of the municipal council office but with a title that says: “Municipal Corporation Zirakpur”, along with a mobile number that does not exist, if you try. Even the original   of the   is not visitor-friendly. Zirakpur resident Navjit Singh Miglani said: “The portal is, so far, only for filing property tax. Its complaint section is still in under construction and yet to go online.”
 
 Resident Gopal Bhatt, who posted a complaint on the fake “Municipal Corporation Zirakpur” consumer page on December 27, 2017, said that his petition was yet to be entertained, while the situation in his area had become worse. He was shocked to know that the page on which he had posted his complaint did not belong to the civic body. He said: “It is strange that the government keeps no check on misleading webpages.” 
 
 He lives in   of Dhakoli near the Nimantran banquet hall and wants streetlights in his area. “It becomes a problem for the women to go out at night, since the streets are dark and stalked by drunken miscreants who make vulgar comments at them. We do not feel safe there,” he said.
 
 Zirakpur a satellite town of Chandigarh in Punjab’s Mohali district is situated in the foothills of the Shivalik range as part of the Derabassi tehsil. It includes the Chandigarh airport, besides the Baltana, Dhakoli, Lohgarh, Pabhat, Nabha, Ramgarh, Bhuda, Peer Muchhala, and Dyalpura.
 
 
