NEW DELHI: A 38-year-old man died while another was injured in a pile-up at South Extension-I on Wednesday morning.

  
  
  
 The incident occurred when Manoj Kumar Saini, who died in the accident, was riding his scooty behind a bus (UP70DT 8281) ferrying students of a private university. Eyewitnesses said a white car in front of the bus suddenly applied brakes in moving traffic and the bus driver followed suit. A bus (DL1PD 1593) coming from behind Saini, which was trying to overtake the vehicles from the left, couldn’t brake in time and the man got crushed between the buses.
 
 A youth, identified as Shashank (18), also got injured after ramming his bike in the second bus from behind.
 
 The PCR received a call at 8am regarding the accident on Ring Road. While the car driver fled, the drivers of the two buses were caught by the public and handed over to the cops. Saini’s body was taken to a hospital and handed over to his family after autopsy. Shashank, who works at a private university, is being treated for multiple fractures.
 
 A case under IPC sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304A (causing death due to negligence) has been registered at Kotla Mubarakpur police station and the two bus drivers, Dinesh and Sarabjeet, have been arrested, DCP (south) Romil Baaniya said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Saini’s family said that he owned a courier company in Noida. He was returning home at Masjid Moth village after dropping his two sons aged eight and 10 at their school in Safdarjung when the accident took place. “He was the sole breadwinner of the family. Our father is also retired. His wife and children and now left to fend for themselves,” said Rajesh Kumar, Saini’s brother.
 
 Kumar said that his brother had talked to him after dropping his children at school as they had to go to a meeting at 10am. “His children got to know about the accident when his body was brought home. He had recently bought the scooty for his wife so that she could go out for doing household tasks with ease during summer. Who knew he would meet this tragic end so soon,” he added.
 
 
