Being a television actor is not easy and   has seen it all over the years. But he believes in staying positive and working on himself, rather than letting the vagaries of the industry get to him. In a chat with BT, he talks about the highs and lows that an actor experiences, balancing TV and movies and how he’s waiting to see wife Poonam on screen again. Excerpts... 

 
 
 I have played to the gallery many a times and the audience has loved me in these roles. My characters Yuvraj and   were ruthless and menacing, but I approached both of them differently. I enjoyed every bit as every scene pushed me to perform, and I fulfilled my hunger as an actor. Also, the fact that the audience loved to hate me in both the roles was an indication that my efforts paid off. 
 
 
 
 Yes, I was rejected in more than 100 auditions across various channels, but I took it in my stride. That was a couple of years ago when I was waiting for a good comeback role. For me, it was not about failing those 100 auditions, it was about surviving that one. Surprisingly, my last role, the one in 'Ayushman Bhava', came without any audition. My producer   had a lot of faith in me as an actor and she went with her conviction. I did my best to live up to her trust.
 
 
 
 I strongly believe that at times, what you do is not as important as what you don’t do. There were offers, but as an actor, they didn’t excite me at all. The money was great, but not the role. I always convey to my producer or casting director whenever I get an offer that I can compromise on my fee for a great role, but I will not compromise on the role for a great amount. The fact that I was giving my 100 per cent every day to get the right role kept my confidence and faith intact. Yes, I had my lows too, but I also had the means to cope with that.
 
 
 
 Yes, 70mm is my destination certainly, but that’s not at the cost of TV. Television has given me everything; in fact more than I imagined. The audience will see me on the big screen soon and I will make my television fraternity proud of my work in films. 
 
 
 
 Poonam and I are married for 15 years now. She is the boss at home. She is so perfect that I prefer her being the boss because everything moves so seamlessly at home with her taking charge. I am so fortunate to have her in my life. 
 
 
 
 She is in talks for a super comeback. If all goes well, you will see her soon. Or else she will wait for the right role to return to acting. I am looking forward to seeing Poonam on screen again. 
 
