CHANDIGARH: Former Union finance minister   and senior BJP leader   on Sunday lambasted the Narendra Modi-led Central government for not fulfilling the promises they made to the countrymen, before the 2014 parliamentary election. The former finance minister even said that the government is slowly moving towards an emergency, which will be more dangerous than the emergency, earlier imposed by the Congress government.

 Addressing the gathering at the residence of Chandigarh BJP leader and former union minster   in Sector 9, both Yashwant and Shatrughan said now, people of the country will have to bring change as Lok Sabha is the biggest ‘Panchayat’ of the country.
 
 “First four years of any government are the most crucial, as during the fifth year, the preparation of the next general election starts. Four years of the current government’s rule is over and none of the promises made to the public during the last poll has turned into the reality. We too are responsible for that, as we also campaigned during the last election, thinking that the new government would do something. But nothing has been done for the welfare of the public,” Yashwant Sinha said.
 
 Criticising the current government for ending the self-reliant or autonomous structure of the constitutional agencies like election commissioner, CBI, Supreme Court, media, “Election commissioner and other agencies have been twisted and it has happened for the first time in the history of India that four senior-most judges came together in-front of the media and told how the functioning is being done in the Supreme Court,” he added.
 
 Earlier, Shatrughan Sinha said, “As I speak for the public and truth, I am being criticised and levelled with the allegation of anti-party activities. But, I will keep speaking the truth and for the benefit of local public. It is fact that demonetisation and the way GST has been passed, are a disaster for the Indian system. Karnataka has got its ‘Acchhe Din’ and I can say with full confidence that if Atal Behari Vajpayee would have been the Prime Minster, he would have directed (the state wing of the party) to sit in opposition, instead of indulging in wrong practice,” Shatrughan Sinha said.
 
 Earlier, while addressing the media at  , Yashwant Sinha said currently BJP is now puppet in the hands of only two people. Also, democracy has ended in the BJP, he added. Shatrughan Sinha said, “If telling the truth is an act of rebellion, then I am a rebel.”
 
 
