PUNE: As the   has made the playing of the national anthem at theatres optional, the city-based   will be approaching the state government to seek an amendment to its earlier circular, which mandated multiplexes to play the national anthem before each film screenings.

 Multiplex sources said the SC order has come as a relief to them, especially because playing the national anthem had become a licence condition for them. Moreover, only the multiplexes that were able to produce proof of the national anthem being played before screenings could get their licences renewed.
 
 Sources said once they get an order from the state authorities, the playing of the national anthem in the theatres may be discontinued. They said it will be a relief for the elderly and physically challenged cinema patrons, who were forced to stand during the national anthem.
 
 Prakash Chaphalkar, the secretary of the Multiplex Association of India, said a circular by the state government, issued after an SC order made national anthem compulsory before screenings in 2016, too had made it mandatory for multiplexes to play the national anthem. “Following the recent Supreme Court directive, no cinema hall will be keen on playing the anthem. Patrons — with popcorn in one hand and a soft drink in another — too are usually not willing to stand in the theatre. They come for a movie in a different mindset. But they have to stand up out of respect for the national anthem,” Chaphalkar said.
 
 He added in some cases, vigilantes forced everyone, including the elderly, to stand up during the national anthem. “The multiplexes had to get an NOC from the police, confirming that they played the anthem before screenings, to have their licences renewed. This was very difficult,” he said. Chaphalkar said the multiplexes will now wait for the state government to revise its order discontinuing the national anthem before screenings.
 
 Neerav Panchamiya, the CEO of E-Square multiplex in Pune, has a neutral position on the recent SC directive. “A movie hall is a place where everybody gathers, so it is a good place to relive one’s patriotism. However, in that case, the national anthem should also be played before an aeroplane takes off or a train departs a station,” he said.
 
 Rajiv Malla, the director Phoenix Marketcity, Pune, feels there is nothing wrong with playing the national anthem in a theatre. “It tends to instil a sense of patriotism and discipline... which is good. There could be a small section opposing to playing the national anthem. That is because there will always be some who object to anything and everything,” Malla said.
 
 Meanwhile,  , the president of Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India, said after the SC order, the association has left it to the theatre owners to decide if they wanted to play the national anthem or not. “We have been neutral about playing the national anthem from the very beginning,” he said.
 
 
