The nine-year-old who lives upstairs met me in the lift. “Wow,” I said, looking at his kit. “Where do you play?” “Khar gym.” “What are you good at?” After due consideration he says, “Hmm… batting I am so-so, wicket-keeping I am ok, bowling I am really good at.” “Wow,” I said, and we high-fived. Yeah,   is here and everyone who is anyone is playing or watching. The camera pans to the kids in the stands: “It’s just so heartening to see so many children out there, supporting the game …,” say the commentators at least once during the four-hour game.

 
 IPL has changed the way we view and consume sports, putting it straight into the bracket of aspirational. Money, fame, millions of followers on social media, it’s all very heady. The sheer visibility has been milked by everyone from protesters to sponsors. As   puts it, IPL is a soft target. I am talking about an even softer target, the children who watch the game. And how ultra-processed food, commonly called junk food, which sponsors ad breaks, franchises and even cheerleading squads, may affect them.
 
 Indian kids are getting fat at an alarming rate. We may end up having 17 million obese kids by 2025; that puts us right at the top of the table, just below China as far as childhood obesity goes. Obesity is a leading cause of non-communicable diseases (cancer, hypertension, diabetes), early death, poor quality of life and impaired childhood experience. Nutritionists and lobbyists across the globe are asking food businesses to respond more ethically to this epidemic. Mexico led the way with its sugar tax, Chile has responded with food labels that allow kids to identify junk food and has banned sale of toys along with junk food, the US debates reduction in serving size, and we, well …
 
 Recently, there was an interesting US-based study about sports sponsorships and how they promote junk food to children. The scene is not very different in India. While sport sends out a positive message about health and fitness, strong visibility of junk food during games sends out a confusing message, to say the least. Eating right is a basic step for staying healthy, one that every kid can understand. What they don’t understand is what a burger logo is doing on the jersey of their fav team. What we don’t understand fully as parents is how this leads to cued eating in a child — the demand for junk food, even when their stomach is already full. This extends to casual conversations amongst adults of burning off calories the next day, and the flawed belief that exercise can repair a poor diet. It doesn’t. Poor dietary habits come with a big cost, and the poor are more vulnerable than the rich.
 
 A little self-regulation from the franchises will go a long way in helping kids stay away from junk food. Of all the cricket tournaments, they watch IPL the most. Advertisers know this; they also know that kids watch with both parents, allowing them the opportunity to influence buying decisions. I’m also calling for self-regulation by the advertising industry on junk food marketing to children. While the   website has a general code for self-regulation, I didn’t find one specifically for children. Other countries have one, and that ad where the winking girl tells you to eat that chocolate and win that wristband would be found flouting it. So would that dad who says want this cola, accept my friendship request.
 
 The fact is we live in an obesogenic environment and it will take a multi-pronged approach to change that — more open, greener spaces, safe footpaths for kids to walk to school, changes in pricing and government policies (not allowing Rs 5 packets of chips to be sold, for example), regulating the number of junk food ads on TV (like Jamie Oliver’s recent #adenough campaign), etc. But not signing on a junk food company as team sponsor is a low-hanging fruit IPL franchises should seriously consider. It makes for good PR, and even improves the credibility of teams.
 
 As parents we should help our children understand celebrity endorsements. Very plainly, we need to tell them that their favourite cricketer is eating something on screen because he gets paid for it, or their favourite team’s jersey has a junk food logo because they get paid to place it. Teach them to separate business from health. And if you must ask for more accountability, it should be from the food industry, franchise owners and government agencies; celebs are small fry here. For all of Virat Kohli’s sporting greatness and personal decision to not make several crores by renewing the contract with a cola brand (in a world where a cola ad is the ultimate marker of success, this is nothing short of revolutionary), when his team endorses a pizza, it lands on his jersey.
  
 Childhood obesity is a ticking bomb. Here’s calling on all franchise owners to take the captain’s lead and do their bit for their loyal and vulnerable customer base, the kids, and ensure that IPL fever does not turn into an illness.
 
 
 
 
