VIJAYAWADA: Like any other city in India, you can see the roads of   bustling with youngsters rushing to schools or colleges during peak hours. Presently, India has the largest number of youths in the world, and this will continue for the next 20 years, according to a 2017 report by Social Statistics Division of Government of India.

 The share of youths in the total population of India according to the 2011 census stands at 34.8%. They are the driving force behind economic growth across India and cities like Vijayawada.
 
 The young energies flow on Happy Streets every Sunday on the MG Road symbolise the city’s enthusiasm. Youths here have played a crucial role transforming the physical outlook of the city by taking on initiatives such as painting walls at public places, as well as boosting green initiatives. They continue to shine in all competitive examinations.
 
 However, there is a dark side to the enthusiasm of youths here. For the past few years, it has been found that a large number are losing track because of aspiration to get rich quick. The number of youths involved in   related to money and narcotics is rising fast.
 
 Students have been found to commit crimes to buy latest gadgets and bikes. Ironically, these expensive gadgets and vehicles are often mortgaged with moneylenders for cash. This leads them into debt traps, and the vicious cycle continues forcing them t commit more crimes. 
 
 Students approach moneylenders for petty cash to large amounts. Bikes are mortgaged to private financiers and pawnbrokers for meagre amounts. Aditya (name changed), a third year BTech student, mortgaged his bike after he lost money in cricket betting. 
 
 He ended up losing his bike, as he could not recover the money. Some students mortgage high-end phones, bikes, and other expensive things to play online rummy.
 
 The cricket season, especially the Indian Premier League, is time for moneylenders to make more money. Some case studies in recent past suggest that students are involved in betting to earn easy money. This trend is prevalent in those who come from well-off families.
 
 Apart from indulging in betting and gambling, some students have also been found involved in chain snatching. Though the numbers for this crime are comparatively low compared to cricket betting, the fact that students are involved should ring   bells.
 
 Another disturbing fact is the growing instances of group fights and blade attacks. The notorious blade batches of Vijayawada are a sure inspiration for settling scores over petty issues in this manner. A lot of Intermediate students are found to be involved in group fights and blade attacks.
 
 Number of students involved in eve teasing is also a grave concern. The Mahila Rakshak teams nabbed about 1,767 persons for harassing girls and women in public places. Some 40% of those were students and youngsters. 
 
 The traffic police have so far counselled more than 2,000 students and minors for rash driving, and other traffic violations.
 
 The same report by Social Statistics Division said, “Young ones, when nourished properly can grow like a huge redwood tree, but if not controlled or neglected, they can erupt like a volcano.” For Vijayawada though, time seems to be running out.
 
 
