AHMEDABAD: There is good news for over 8,500 students who have failed to clear their   science stream examination in two subjects. The   Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board in a major policy decision has decided to permit students who have failed in two subjects to appear for the supplementary examination scheduled in July this year.

 Earlier the board only permitted students who have failed in one subject to appear for their supplementary examination. The move is seen to be in favour of engineering colleges that are likely to go vacant. This year, according to officials, only 457 students failed in one subject, while 8,644 students failed in two subjects.
 
 An official said that during the executive meeting of the board, several board members moved a proposal to permit students who have failed in two subjects to appear for the supplementary examination. The same was then unanimously passed by the executive.
 
 The state of the HSC science results indicates that half of the engineering colleges in the state will not find students for their Bachelor of Engineering Courses. There are 67,000 seats in 141 engineering colleges in the state, while only 44, 545 students have cleared their HSC science examination from the Gujarat board with mathematics among their main subjects.
 
 Education department officials said that going by the past year’s calculations at least 38,000 seats are likely to go vacant. Last year, there were 33,000 vacant seats. A senior officer said that if students who clear their supplementary examination get admission in engineering, the colleges will get some relief as the admission committee for professional courses ( ) in the past had permitted colleges to admit students who cleared their supplementary examinations.
 
 Janak Khandwala, the president of   said, “The decision will come as a major relief, for many colleges were facing closure for want of students. We expect that of these 9,000 who appear, the colleges will be able to admit around 5,000 students.”
 
  the member secretary of ACPC, said, “We give admission to students clearing supplementary examination only on the vacant seats.”
 
 
