BENGALURU: With the intention of swaying the sizeable vote bank of slum-dwellers in urban pockets, the   state leadership held a 'Slum Durbhagya' programme, to highlight the lack of basic amenities under the   regime. Each of their top leaders stayed in slums across urban pockets of Karnataka for a night. 

 However, what caught media attention were the "comforts" the hosts had provided the BJP legislators.
 
 In Bengaluru, after a headline grabbing launch of his night stay in the home of an autorickshaw driver, BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa found himself in a loo controversy. The host had supposedly installed a western toilet in the home where he stayed for less than 12 hours. It is another matter that there was no water connection to the flush, rendering it redundant.
 
 No sooner did Yeddyurappa step out of Muniraju's home in Lakshmanpuri slum, did cameras catch the freshly installed western toilet in the tenement. Muniraju is an autorickshaw driver, and his wife is a maid in the nearby locality.
 
 Asked if the western toilet was a recent development in his home, Muniraju admitted it was. "But the toilet was for my aged mother, who cannot use the Indian style toilet. It was installed a couple of days ago, but there was no water connection to the flush and we are using tap water," he said.
 
 He said Yeddyurappa was served rice and sambar with papad and pickle for dinner on Saturday night and two idlis and chutney, and a cup of coffee for breakfast on Sunday.
 
 "We were specifically told by the BJP that Yeddyurappa was a diabetic and cannot have much food. The papad and pickle was brought for him specially," said Muniraju.
 
 Yeddyurappa charged the Siddaramaiah government of neglecting several dalit communities living the slums of the state, and vowed to provide them basic amenities if voted to power.
 
 Meanwhile, in Hubballi, BJP opposition leader Jagadish Shettar spent the night in a rather "comfortable" slum within the city. Asked why he stayed in a slum that appeared to be "developed" rather than several other hutments and temporary housing slums, the former chief minister said: "There is no developed or underdeveloped slum. A slum is a slum. We helped the people build houses under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, so you can find many concrete houses. However, many house owners are yet to get title deeds. The state government is delaying distribution of title deeds."
 
 In Mysuru, BJP general secretary Shobha Karandlaje stayed at   in a communally sensitive vicinity of Kyathamaranahalli. During her address, she is said to have been heckled when she termed it a "slum".
 
 Nonetheless, Karandlaje spent the night at the residence of Indresh, a mason. She used the opportunity to ask the people to support BJP in the forthcoming polls and claimed that the area is rocked by communal tension as   and PFI is active in the area.
 
 In Vijayapura, Mudhol MLA   stayed at the home of a popular shoemaker,  , a Dalit. Karjol was served jowar rotti and brinjal curry. Karjol and his entire entourage were served food by the family members.
 
 Raichur Rural BJP MLA Tipparaju Havaldar spent the night at a labourers' colony of Raichur Thermal Power Station in Shakti Nagar on Saturday night. Tipparaju spent the night at RTPS worker Mallikarjun's house in the colony and ate jowar roti and brinjal curry. 
 
 
