Nagpur: The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has admitted that it is “duty-bound” to prepare a proper plan for disposal of all the absorbent hygienic product waste including sanitary napkins. According to an affidavit it filed in the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the board also shifted the onus on manufacturers and brand owners of the products. “As per the Rule 17 of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, it is their duty to explore the possibility of using all recyclable materials in their products or to provide a pouch or wrapper for disposal of each napkin and diaper along with the packet of their sanitary products,” the MPCB stated. The affidavit was filed in response to an environment interest litigation (EIL) filed by Pune-based law student Purva Bora, Nagpur-based human rights lawyer Smita Sarode-Singalkar and Mumbai-based social activist Supriya Jan-Sonar. The petition, which was filed last year through counsel Asim Sarode, highlighted that around 40,000 crore used napkins are generated as waste in India every year. MPCB informed the green court that the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has issued letters to all the state pollution control boards of the country, seeking their comments for allowing sale and operation of mini incinerators to dispose sanitary napkins.  In its suggestion, MPCB said that the urban local bodies should make provisions for separate collection of sanitary waste. “We have issued directions to all the municipal corporations of the state to create public awareness and educate the waste generators to practice segregation of waste into bio-degradable, non-biodegradable (recyclable and combustible), sanitary waste and domestic hazardous waste at source,” said MPCB. As per the board’s directives, the civic bodies are also responsible for ensuring that waste generators securely wrap used sanitary waste in the pouches provided by the brand owners or any other suitable wrapping suggested by the municipal corporations. Following this, the waste should be disposed in the bins allocated for non-biodegradable waste.  Through the EIL, the petitioners had stated that unscientific disposal of sanitary waste is a serious environment hazard. They had prayed for directives to the producers to donate funds for educating masses on wrapping and proper disposal of sanitary napkins and diapers and sponsoring waste management system like sanitary napkin vending machines across all municipal corporations and councils.  Apart from MPCB, the NGT had issued notices to other respondents including the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), director of state’s health department, commissioners of Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur municipal corporations and some manufacturing companies in December 2017. However according to the counsel, the other respondents have not filed a reply till date. 