INDORE: The local fire and rescue services personnel have no clue about the   of the multi-storeyed buildings coming up in  . 

 For the past eight years, the fire clearance certificates of these new buildings have been given by a committee of urban development department in Bhopal. Ironically, no information about the structure of buildings or fire safety measures is being shared with local  . 
 
 Following the incident, questions were raised about the awareness of the fire department about the clearance of building. Indore is fast turning into a metropolitan city and will soon be a developed as a smart city. 
 
 There are a number of residential and commercial projects coming up across the city and fire officials need to have a know-how of the building to fight fire incidents.
 
 ASP (fire) Anjana Tiwari said that fire department is only responsible for fire-fighting and public awareness but rest is done by the urban development department in Bhopal. 
 
 “We try to overcome the problem by sending the firefighters to the buildings to study and acclimatize with the circumstances,” she said.
 
 CREDAI Indore chapter president Vijay Gandhi said, “We obtain the fire clearances from the urban development department online. There is a digital procedure for this following which a certificate is given.” 
 
 Fire officials, however, don’t get a copy of the clearance and have no idea about the fire -fighting devices or procedure in the building. 
 
 The fire department is also holding training sessions of the staff to deal with emergency situations at malls and apartments. They are being informed about the nature of fire along with ways to extinguish the flames.
 
 “We also train them on evacuation, fire extinguishers and clearing areas for allowing access to firefighters,” Tiwari said.
 
 Recently, the fire department had been carrying out a mock drill at different places. Indore district has various fire stations with a sanctioned strength of 125 personnel. As per the normal strength, Indore requires more than 200   to effectively tackle fire emergencies and ensure minimum stress on the existing firemen in service.
 
 
