CHANDIGARH: The growing anger of people over the hike in paid parking charges has prompted municipal corporation ( ) mayor Davesh   on Monday to announce the issue would be decided in the general house meeting of the civic body this month.

 “I have been gathering paid parking related records, information and clauses of agreement. They will be placed before the members of general house during the meeting for a discussion and decision. Since the general house is the supreme body to take any decision related to parking, only its decision will prevail. The general house had passed all the components related to paid parking, including the rates, last year and it has full right to review and even cancel them, keeping public convenience in mind. As I am committed to serve citizens of Chandigarh, a public-centric decision will be taken,” Moudgil told TOI.
 
 The move has given a ray of hope to the public of a roll back to the paid parking charges that were doubled from April 1. But the general house will have to keep all legal angles and clauses of the agreement between the MC and the company managing the parking lots in consideration before taking any decision.
 
 Terming the hike completely wrong and unacceptable, Moudgil said the paid parking lots are not smart at all and it is unethical too to put an additional financial burden on the public.
 
  said, “The contractor paid third instalment of the dues almost three months late and the deadline for the fourth instalment has been missed. Moreover, the pathetic condition in the paid parking lots is making commuters suffer. Anomalies are persisting and no changes have been made. How can the enhancement of charges be justified?
 
 According to the new rates, a car owner has to pay Rs 20 for the first four hours. The rates are doubled every two hours. A two-wheeler owner has to pay Rs 10 for the first four hours and double that after every two hours.
 
 A majority of the municipal councillor comprising all political parties and nominated councillors have already expressed their anger over the hike in the last monthly house meeting. The councillor had openly termed the move unjustified, but still joint municipal commissioner   issued orders for the enhancement of the charges a few days back.
 
 
 
 
