MUMBAI: A   resident's aspiration to become a judge years after he was acquitted in a criminal case came to a naught recently. The   upheld the decision of the   to cancel his selection as judge over an adverse police report. 

  The man was accused of facilitating the abduction of a minor girl who was then raped. "For appointment to the post (of a civil judge and first class judicial magistrate), the applicant should have had unblemished character and conduct and his antecedents need to be looked into before making the appointment," said a division bench of justice Vasanti Naik and justice Sarang Kotwal. 
 
 The court was not impressed by the candidate's claims that he was acquitted and pointed out that the case against him related to "moral turpitude". The criminal case had not ended in a clean acquittal as the accused were acquitted after the minor victim girl had turned hostile during the trial. 
 
    had, in 2010, published advertisements inviting applications for the posts of 200 civil judge junior division and judicial magistrate first class. 
 
 Sangli resident Mohammed Imran had applied for and was selected after appearing for the examinations and the interview rounds. However, in June 2010, the MPSC cancelled the selection following an adverse police report.
 
  Imran's lawyers challenged this claiming he had never hid the fact and MPSC had, in fact, recommended his name for appointment after the disclosure about the criminal case. He was charged under the Indian Penal Code for facilitating the kidnapping and abduction of a minor girl, who was then raped by a co-accused in the case. 
 
 His lawyers pointed to a   order where a man, who was acquitted in a criminal case, was appointed to the post of constable.
 
 The court, however, pointed out that in that case the offences were not as serious as those for which Imran was tried and acquitted.
 
 The MPSC's lawyer said the post Imran had applied for required "persons with impeccable character and conduct." The lawyer contended that an applicant's antecedents were one of the crucial tests while appointing a candidate in the judicial services.
 
 The HC agreed that Imran would not be entitled to any relief. "On a reading of the entire judgement of the sessions case, it appears that all the three accused were acquitted mainly because the victim had turned hostile and was declared as such. In the circumstances of the case, we do not find any illegality in the action on the part of the state in cancelling the selection of Imran (for the judicial post)."
 
 
