SECUNDERABAD: At a time when the railways is going for modernization of services to cater to the tastes of today's passengers, many people are pouring out their angst and anger at the poor management in AC II and III tier and sleeper class coaches. 

 Passengers mostly complain that such coaches of important mail/express trains from Secunderabad or Hyderabad run without amenities' staff, and when in need, they don't get anyone around to air their grievances, which mostly pertain to food, drinking water, medicine or first aid, AC temperature and cleanliness. 
 
 Complaints from furious passengers are pouring in the respective departments of divisional offices under SCR and also going viral on social networking sites like Twitter or Facebook. Last month, three unmanned sleeper class coaches (S-5 to S-7) of   that plies between Hyderabad and New Delhi, angered the passengers and prodded by their complaints, divisional commercial manager of Secunderabad, J Sukesh Deepak, sent a circular on March 19 instructing staff to man all coaches of trains chugging from the city.
 
 Ch  , a passenger of Telangana Express, told TOI, "My wife was unwell and needed an extra bed-sheet at night as she was feeling cold in the AC compartment. But, I did not find any attendant to ask for it. Besides, the quality of food was also not satisfactory, but there was nobody to complain." 
 
 Another passenger   narrated her bad experience while travelling in an   of   last week. "The standard of service we get against expensive railway rides is poor. The AC was not functioning properly and we did not get anyone to complain. I posted a complaint on the Twitter site of IRCTC," she said.
 
 However, railway authorities conceded that amenities staff are not posted in all compartments. "There has been acute shortage of manpower and SCR needs to fill in 2,000 vacant TT posts. The existing staff have to work in more number of coaches than mentioned in the rule. Coaches of some trains are left uncovered daily," a TT of Secunderabad division told TOI. 
 
 Last month, three unmanned sleeper class coaches (S-5 to S-7) of Telangana Express angered the passengers. Prodded by their complaints, divisional commercial manager of Secunderabad, J Sukesh Deepak, sent a circular on March 19 for support staff at all coaches of trains from the city
 
 
