NEW DELHI: A 56-year-old   of the   had a harrowing experience when a taxi driver tried to run him down. His presence of mind in jumping on the   of the cab saved his life, but he injured his hands as he desperately hung on when the car raced away on the busy highway.

 Senior police officers said that the incident happened on Thursday afternoon near a luxury hotel in   in southwest Delhi. ASI Rajender Singh was posted there with a head constable to manage the traffic. At 1.30pm, Singh spotted a white Maruti Ertiga with the registration number HR74A 9612 idling on NH8 trying to pick up passengers. The vehicle was creating a traffic jam, and Singh signalled to the driver to park his car at the side of the road and to show his documents.
 
 “I waved to the taxi driver to come out of the vehicle. The driver did move the car from the spot slowly, but suddenly accelerated as it approached me,” Singh said. Reacting quickly, the police officer jumped as the car hit him. The move saved him from being mowed down and he landed on the bonnet of the car.
 
 “I grabbed the wipers of the car and held on, but the driver didn’t stop his car,” Singh said. With the cop on the bonnet, the cabbie drove into the heavy traffic, ignoring all signals of people around to stop the car. Soon after Singh’s colleague started chasing the cab, the Ertiga was forced to stop in a traffic jam.
 
 Singh alighted from the bonnet, his hands raw from holding on to the wipers. He was taken to a nearby   hospital for treatment. Wahid, the errant driver, was arrested for obstructing a public servant in the discharge of public function, for causing hurt to deter a public servant from his duty and for using criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duties.
 
 Wahid is a resident of Raipuri village in Haryana’s Mewat district. He told the cops that he was looking for passengers headed to Gurgaon. Police said the driver’s blood sample was collected for tests to see if he was driving under the influence at the time of the incident. His vehicle was impounded.
 
 
 
