 came to Chandigarh for his education, but this city absorbed him into its landscape, fuelled his personal passion of being a TV anchor, and even catapulted him into Bollywood. Now, this SD College- 32 alumnus is making his debut with   in the upcoming film October. 
With a career spanning nearly eight years as an anchor, Sahil, who hails from   and had Sonu Sood's mother as his English teacher, has been a TV stage anchor for Punjabi channels and also sports leagues. "Besides Punjabi shows, I have also hosted sports leagues of hockey, kabaddi and cricket," says Sahil, who has also acted in a Punjabi film Pooja Kiven Aa, "I was in touch with casting director, Jogi Mallang who works with  , since nearly five years. And my first audition was for Piku. But, that didn't materialize since then Shoojit sir wanted a mature looking actor for the role." 
  
  
 In July last year, Sahil was called by Jogi for auditions of October. "I am really lucky to be debuting with Shoojit sir. As for Varun Dhawan, he is a very warm human being. He was the first one to shake hands with me, and didn't demonstrate any starry airs." The only problem for this TV anchor came when Shoojit asked him to restrict his expressions to his eyes only. "As an anchor, we use our hands more frequently to communicate. But Shoojit sir asked me to talk only with my eyes." Adds Sahil, "The first question he asked me was, 'Acting ki hai kabhi. Meri movie mein ek cheez nahi krni tuney, woh hai acting'." 
 With strappings typical of a service class family, Sahil's parents were apprehensive of him being in the glamour world. Yet, like a lot of Chandigarh youth in the last few years, Sahil followed his heart, which led him straight into Bollywood. "I think, it all depends on TRPs. Most TV shows are themed on Punjab, UP or Bihari culture. People from South and East don't watch Hindi entertainment. In the last decade, many names from here have made it big in the industry- Aparshakti and Ayushmann Khurrana, Varun, Prince Narula, Rannvijay. This has created a certain image of people from Chandigarh. Also, people from here are fashion forward and confident. So, they catch attention of directors."
  
  
 However, Sahil has no intention of following his predecessors into TV serials. "I am not interested in TV shows, only reality shows interest me. I can do short series, like on digital media, but not the saas-bahu types." 
 Despite his Bollywood debut, Sahil is sure of not leaving anchoring. "I am not going to do this that just after doing one film, I will quit anchoring. Jo chal raha hai, usko le kar hi chalna hai. In acting, I will have refined choices, I will be selective. Though of course, I am open to every genre as of now, abhi hum itne badey Amitabh Bachchan ya Irrfan nahi baney hain ki choice kar sakte hain," he signs off. 
 
 
  
 
