#justasking is gaining momentum as an apolitical movement across Karnataka. It is aimed at giving a voice to the oppressed, who do not muster courage to question the powers that be. Actor   is using it on their behalf. Meetings with like-minded people are held across the state by the actor in his free time, which helps sustain this movement.

 In a free-wheeling chat with the media in Mangaluru, at a news meet organized by the Dakshina Kannada District Working Journalists’ Association, Rai says unless people start questioning the powers that be and make them accountable and answerable, and governments cease to be parties once they come to power and deliver what they promised, events such as the farmers march will be a stark reality that democratic India will have to contend itself with.
 
 Q: Is Prakash Rai anti-establishment?
 
 A: #justasking is striving to act as a pressure point for powers that be. There has to be somebody to question the system. If you (system) go wrong, you are answerable (to people). I am certain that alternative politics will grow out of this movement. Through this movement, I am striving to get people believing in a collective cause, but differing in their means of achieving it, on to a common platform.
 
 Q: What prompted this change in you?
 
 A: The murder of Gauri (Lankesh). When death of a person whom you adore comes to your doorstep, it leaves a scar that may heal over a period of time, but also leaves a wound on the psyche that will never heal. When I questioned this murder, a certain political and ideological force started targeting me, reminding me even that I should stick to my profession.
 
 Q: Does communalizsation of DK worry you?
 
 A: It is a matter of grave concern and shame when people ask me about the constant communal tension simmering in my home district. We were a land that introduced banking, hotels, education and even Yakshagana and Bootha Kola to the world. But today, we are seeing DK being remembered for anything but these and for incidents of pub, church and homestay attacks.
 
 Q: Forums have questioned   of accused in  . Your take?
 
 A: It raises question marks on the judiciary, which has ignored mountains of visual evidence that presented itself. Acquitting the accused merely because victims did not come forward to lodge a complaint and other technicalities such as hostile witnesses in face of such damning evidence is inexplicable. The government must take steps to appeal this judgment, also in light of the fact that the perpetrators have acknowledged their role in the incident.
 
 Q: Political parties are claiming that Rai will support them in the coming elections?
 
 A: I am not with any political party nor do I harbour any such (political) ambitions, for one person ,an MLA or an MP, cannot change the system. However, I will definitely speak out against one political party, whose elected representatives are openly propagating a communally divisive agenda and the leadership is not reining such elements in. Once a party comes to power, it should cease to be a party and focus on governance and delivering what it assured the voters.
 
 Q: Have you accepted the DD for Rs 9 sent to you by a supporter of MP  ?
 
 A: I am not against Pratap individually but against his mindset which encourages flippancy. It is this mindset, again unchecked by his party leadership, that is emboldening his followers to use the same language. When he refused to apologize publicly, I had to seek legal recourse. The defamation amount of Re 1 sought was symbolic to stand up against such forces. I don’t know where the DD for Rs 9 (against damages of Re 1 sought) from Pratap’s supporter in Mysuru has been sent. It also shows their understanding of the issue.
 
 
