JAIPUR: While walking down the narrow lanes of   in the  , you can see butcher shops, cycle repair shops and even a mosque and temple opposite to each other. In this lower middle income area, there are various examples of harmony among people of different religion. People might belong to different religion but they have a common problem like water.

 According to residents, the authorities have been neglecting them for a long time.   said, “There are times when water is not supplied for four days. Even when the water is supplied the pressure is too low to fulfil our requirements. That is why we have to go to Topkhana, the neighbouring area, to fill water almost every day. My hands sometimes swell up due to 5-7 buckets of water I have to carry. Few years back we even organised a dharna in our locality, result - authorities came, made a lot of promises and then we never heard from them again”. 
 
 However, the parshad of the area Sunita Aankad, refuted the claims alleged by the residents. She assured that water is supplied everyday in the area and if there have been a shut down, tankers are sent in the area.
 
 But their problems does not end here. Another important issue is contaminated water. According to the residents, water is supplied for 25 minutes in the area out which for 15 minutes they received contaminated water. Mohd. Akram, the resident of the area said “We have been from pillar to post but we received false promises of the ministers and officers. There are some work going on to find the root of the problem but nothing has happened as of yet.”
 
 Iqramuddin, the parshad of ward no 76. said that the pipeline laid few years back is creating such problem and the maintenance work is going on and within few days the water contamination will be solved. “The work is going on but there have been difficulties in finding that old pipelines but we are trying our level best” said Iqramuddin. 
 
 JMC is spending seven crore rupees every year in maintenance of the Bisalpur dam intake pump house but even after all the efforts these areas are still being neglected by the government. Though many promises are made but according to the residents hardly any of them is being fulfilled. 
 
 
