CHENNAI: Non-teaching hospitals, particularly   headquarters and in taluks in the state have started enrolling students for   courses, with Diplomate of National Board (DNB)   awarded by the National Board of Examinations.

 The directorate of   service, which administers district hospitals, said the health department decided to use non-teaching district hospitals for DNB courses as human resources and infrastructure there would also improve. The   has made it mandatory for all medical colleges to start PG courses. At present, TN has 22 medical colleges in 19 districts (Chennai has four). “District hospitals have adequate teaching material for postgraduates. These DNB courses in district hospitals will strengthen speciality   in rural areas,” said director of medical services Dr M R Enbasekaran. TN plans to get 100 DNB seats in district hospitals in two years, he said.
 
 Earlier this week, Kerala-based Dr Elsamma Thomas, who was working in Thiruvananthapuram after completing her PG   in gynaecology at Sri Ramachandra University, joined the Kovilpatti Government Hospital in Tuticorin for DNB in obstetrics and gynaecology, a degree recognised by the  . 
 
 She will serve in the hospital during her two years of study. “I really look forward to having a rich experience in a rural hospital where services are free of cost,” she said.
 
 While MBBS graduates can do a three year primary course, PG diploma holders like Dr Thomas can apply for a two-year secondary course. Counselling will be organised by the National Board of Examination in New Delhi, based on the results of NEET-PG. “Students from across the country can apply, but we have proposed a bond which they have to sign, mandating them to work in the hospital for two years after completing the course,” said Dr V Vijaykumar, TN nodal officer for DNB courses. Students will have to clear an all-India examination conducted by the board to get the degrees.
 
 In 2017, the state health department had applied for 48 PG seats in eight streams in 11 district hospitals and has now been accredited with 29 seats in general medicine, paediatrics, orthopaedics, ophthalmology, and gynaecology in seven hospitals. “Centralised counselling is on and we expect more students to join soon. The board has completed inspection for nine more seats in emergency medicine,” Vijayakumar said.
 
 To train students, DMS has tied up with the nearest medical college from where a professor will take regular classes. The hospital will also have a senior and junior consultant to guide the students. At least two resident doctors will also be added to the training team.
 
 
