As the   entered its sixth day on Tuesday,  , 52, of Thiruvottiyur, was fatally run over by an   near Broadway in the city, taking the toll during the strike period in the state to five. Driver of the bus M Ravi, 40, has been arrested. Several non-fatal accidents too were reported across the state, after temporary drivers were pressed into service.

 With the transport corporations losing 65% of their revenue each day, the total loss has crossed the Rs 100-crore mark, say sources.
 
 “Of the 6,809 staff, nearly 86 % or 5,918 drivers, conductors and other   were on strike,” said R Vasudevan, a CITU leader, adding that some of them joined the Tuesday stir with their family members.
 
 The state has issued notices to nearly 60,000 workers for abstaining from work on January 5 and 6 even after the Madras HC ordered them to return to work. At least 68   have been suspended on charges of disembarking passengers halfway and indulging in violence.
 
 The transport department has employed nearly 15,000 temporary staff across its  . “At least 75.58% of the fleet has been in operation till 6pm on Tuesday,” a transport department official said.
 
 
 
 The ongoing strike by transport corporation workers across the state intensified on the sixth day as the family members of the participating employees joining. With no sign of the deadlock between the state government and trade unions ending, the workers threatened to further scale up the agitation, apparently angered over showcause notices to several of them.
 
 Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s appeal in the assembly, urging the workers to accept the government’s offer and withdraw the strike had little impact. Joined by their family members, including children, Tamil Nadu State Tranpsort Corporation workers gathered outside divisional offices of TNSTC across the state and raised slogans.
 
 
 “It is because of the management’s fault that the transport corporation was suffering losses. Employees should not be penalized with low wages for that,’’ said Vanitha Chakkaravarthy from Othakkalmandapam who staged a protest with her husband Duraisamy, a TNSTC employee in Coimbatore.
 
 In Coimbatore, more than 550 employees protested in front of TNSTC divisional headquarters on Mettupalayam Road, while in Madurai about 500 employees, inclduing 90 women, protested. In Trichy, a similar number of workers and their family members staged a protest. The Trichy police picked up 210 protesters and let them off later. Across the state, several striking employees were also suspended by TNSTC on charges of damaging government buses. In Madurai, 11 staff were suspended in the last four days, based on FIRs registered for damaging buses and preventing other workers from reporting for duty.
 
 The carrot and stick approach adopted by the government by seeking to offer a revised wage even as notices were served on a number of striking employees had angered the workers. The striking staff warned that they would further intensify their protest by holding demonstrations in front of labour department offices across the state on Wednesday,alleging that the officials were working against the interest of TNSTC employees.
 
