NAGPUR: As many as 300 students enrolled in various art courses at the government-run   find themselves caught between the devil and the deep sea with hostilities between dean Ramesh Subhash Wadhje and the rest of the faculty showing no signs of reconciliation.

 Caught between non-cooperation of faculty and efforts by dean to ensure that college activities remain on track, students are constantly juggling between the instructions given by the dean and what the faculty tells them to do.
 
 “The new dean has brought about many desirable changes. For the first time, we have had an international print exchange programme in the college. But as the faculty members do not get involved in them, it creates an awkward situation for us,” said a final year student on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Chitrakala Mahavidyalay was working without a full-time dean for over a decade. Last year Wadhje, a professor at Maratha Vidya Prasarak Samaj Lalit Kala Mahavidyalay, Nashik, was appointed as dean through MPSC selection process which was challenged in the court last December by Vinod  , the officiating dean before Wadhje took charge.
 
 “To be appointed as dean, a candidate should have held the post of a professor for some time. The information I have obtained under   says there are no documents with the Directorate of Arts showing that his professorship was approved by it,” said Mankar, adding that Wadhje’s age too was 47 at the time of appointment when for candidates moving from non-government sector to government, the upper age limit is 45.
 
 His other grouse is that for the last 20 years, none of the lecturers in any of the four government-run art colleges has been promoted as professors. “We are not eligible to apply for the post and candidates from private colleges who are managing their promotions are selected,” he alleged.
 
 With the entire faculty in no mood to relent, it is the young staff appointed on hourly basis who are conducting many of the classes and examinations, organizing workshops and helping with exhibitions. “These young teachers are more helpful and teach better and we are happy with their work too,” said an   student scared to be named.
 
 This is not going down well with the faculty who have accused the dean of not informing them about the exam schedule and for roping in temporary staff to set exam papers.
 
 Not willing to comment on the ongoing tussle between him and the staff, Wadhje said, “I don’t want to discuss the situation in my college. Everything is on schedule here.” As for the accusation that he has not informed the faculty about the exam schedule, he points to various notices put on the college board. “What can I do if faculty members are not willing to accept these circulars or read and sign them when I send them?” he added.
 
 
