MANGALURU/CHIKKAMAGALURU:  , the prime accused in a case of moral policing that allegedly drove a 20-year-old BCom student to kill herself, was arrested in Bengaluru on Thursday. Initial investigation into the suicide of Dhanyashree revealed that right-wing activists in neighbouring coastal districts circulated photographs of the victim on social media and WhatsApp in an attempt to humiliate her and provoke sentiments. Poojary is a   member.

 Poojary, 23, is a resident of Badagakajekkaru in   taluk and was working as a mechanic in Mangaluru. Chikkamagaluru SP   told TOI that Poojary was arrested from his friend’s place in Bengaluru, where he was hiding since Dhanyashree committed suicide on January 6. Poojary’s actions led to the girl committing suicide and he has been booked for abetment of suicide, causing provocation for a riot and promoting enmity between groups and communities, the SP said.
 
 Some of Dhanyashree’s photos, in which she was wearing a head scarf, were posted on social media and this began to be shared rapidly among right-wing social media groups. Poojary, who received the images, tried to source her personal number from other groups. After receiving her number, he reportedly made repeated calls and asked her why was she wearing a head scarf. He also called her mother, a tailor, and warned them.
 
 Poojary also continued to chat on WhatsApp with Dhanyashree and when she told him that she loves Muslims, he flew into a rage. He circulated a screenshot of the message to various groups and allegedly threatened to send fellow Bajrang Dal leaders from Mudigere to her house. The very next day, a group of men barged into Dhanyashree’s house and threatened to defame her by publicizing the photos. Hours later, a distraught Dhanyashree hanged herself when no one was at home.
 
 Police sources said WhatsApp messages released in the name of Bhajarangadal Mudigere on January 6 were circulated in the name of Bhajarangadal Kalasa, Koppa, Chikkamagaluru, Belthangady, Bantwal and Mangaluru. An officer privy to the developments said the content of the message shared in these groups was the same. “Except the name of the place, everything was same. It was forwarded on all the groups without any fear of law. It may be the work of those who wanted to create tension in society and spread fear,” he said. “Adding to this, a screenshot of an alleged conversation between the deceased and an accused was widely circulated on social media in the coastal districts.”
 
 SP Annamalai said he won’t disclose details on the role of outsiders in the incident. “We will not share sensitive details as investigation is on,” he said. Dakshina Kannada SP Sudheer Kumar Reddy said police will initiate action if anyone is found circulating inflammatory messages. “In 2-3 incidents related to circulation of inflammatory messages, we have already initiated action,” he said.
 
 
