Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday stopped the work on Neyveli Lignite Corporation's solar power plants in four villages of Virudhunagar district till March 26. The division bench of justices T S Sivagnanam and R Tharani which heard the petition filed by A Narayana Athimoolam of Tiruchuli said that the project would be kept in abeyance, and ordered notice to NLC chairman and Jakson Engineers Ltd.

 The petitioner's counsel told the court that NLC was going to set up solar power plants in four villages - Tiruchuli, Parattanatham, Thammanayackanpatti and Pillaiyarnatham. The corporation, through Jakson Engineers Ltd, has been purchasing several acres of land and also undertaking construction works on 1,000 acres. However, while doing so, they were encroaching on water bodies and public pathways which were being used by the public for years. The petitioner also said that electric poles had been damaged and that villagers were facing many problems because of these actions. People were not able to access the water bodies including the river 'Narayana Cauvery (Gundar). The companies also damaged pipelines and borewells which the state government had installed under the state disaster management scheme. 
 
 The local people had approached the district officials against their actions with the relevant details and urged them to prevent the companies from encroaching on the land and water bodies but to no avail. The counsel alleged that the Supreme Court had passed an order barring the purchase of the properties of PACL company which swindled its investors' money to the extent of Rs, 80,000 crore. But the properties of the company had also been purchased for the solar power plant and the sub-registrar offices concerned had registered the documents too in that regard. 
 
 Further, the provisions of Town and Country Planning Act and related rules had also been violated. Hence, it was necessary to prevent the companies from undertaking further works and encroaching the land and water bodies as well to direct them to restore the public pathways, the counsel said. 
 
 
