BHOPAL: The state cabinet on Tuesday gave its nod to the new   ‘Krishi Rin Samadhan Yojana’ to help farmers and announced waiver of interest on their bank loans to the tune of Rs 2600 crore. Farmers who have failed to deposit their part-time loan by June 30, 2017 will be covered under the scheme. “The cabinet cleared major plans for farmers, including waiving of their interest on bank loans under  , allowing them to pay the principal amount in two instalments of which first instalment will have to be paid by June 15. The decision would help 17.78 lakh farmers in the state", said state public relations minister and government spokesperson Narottam Mishra, while briefing media after the cabinet meeting.

 He said after paying 50% principal amount, the interest on the defaulter farmer will be waived off and new credit limit will be approved for another loan in 2018. The remaining principal amount will be converted into cash loan under zero percent interest scheme. He said the state government will bear 80% of the debt, while cooperatives banks will have to bear the remaining 20%. "Apart from loan waiver, the cabinet approved Rs 200 per quintal bonus of previous year and Rs 265 per quintal difference amount of current year for wheat and paddy crops as announced recently. The amount will be deposited in the farmers' account on April 16 and June 10, respectively. Besides, Rs 100 bonus on gram, lentil and mustard crops under   has also been cleared", said Mishra.
 
 In yet another decision, the cabinet decided to form 43 new tehsils in 30 urban areas having a population between one and five lakh.   and Indore districts will have five new tehsils each, while Gwalior and Jabalpur will have three each and Ujjain will have two new tehsils. 25 other districts will have one tehsil each. "Each tehsil will get Rs 2 crore for building purposes, Rs 5 lakh each for vehicle, a tehsildar, additional and deputy tehsildar, assistants of grade peon and other staff. The cabinet also approved 191 new posts each for grade three and four employees and 550 for deputy tehsildar post", Mishra said.
 
 In another major decision, the cabinet approved `Kalyani Yojana' for widows. Mishra said that now widows will be called as `Kalyani'. The government would encourage widow marriage and give Rs 2 lakh each. Under Mukhya Mantri Kalyani Sahayata Yojana, each woman up to the age of 79 will get a pension of Rs 300 and those above 79 will get Rs 500 as financial help. 
 
 
