As per statistics projected by a WHO report, India tops the list of countries with the highest number of diabetics. The total number of diabetics in India is expected to rise to a whopping 79.4 million by the year 2030. In the light of such alarming numbers, it becomes increasingly important to understand the impact of eating right as well as eating at regular intervals and it’s effect on an individual’s blood sugar levels. Regular meal times are favourable for a diabetic’s health as it helps to prevent low blood sugar (hypoglycaemia), promotes weight loss and improves overall nutrition.

  is a metabolic disorder in which the patient has elevated blood sugar levels due to insulin deficiency and/or insulin resistance. Insulin is the hormone responsible for blood sugar regulation. The other hormones like corticosteroids, growth hormones, estrogen and progesterone increase the sugar levels in the body as they work against the action of insulin. Due to change in the levels of these counter regulatory hormones as per the circadian rhythm, alterations are also reflected in the body’s blood sugar levels.
 
 As per the “thrifty gene hypothesis” the Early Man’s genetic structure enabled them to survive feast and famine cycles by gaining weight during times of plenty by efficiently storing fats to be used as fuel in tough times. However, food is no longer in scarcity. Our body tries to store food first rather than utilizing it first. Hence obesity is rampant. Overall, populations living in warm and humid climates tend to have lower BMR (Basal Metabolic Rate) than those living in colder climates. 
 
 Consequently, we need to replace old beliefs and change our eating habits. As the saying goes – “Breakfast like a king, lunch like a prince and dine like a pauper”. This is applicable to all body types having low or high BMR in warm/cold climates. There is often ambiguity about what the ideal time gaps between two meals should be. Keeping an interval of four hours between meals is beneficial to the body and in accordance with our hormonal profile.
 Ideally breakfast should be at 8 am, lunch at 12 pm, evening snack at 4 pm and dinner at 8 pm. It is important to maintain sufficient gap between dinner and sleep. Having late dinner could be harmful. Eating a proper   rich in fruits, vegetables, low in calories and carbohydrates is ideal. It may happen that the items that you eat can be continued but their method of preparation may need to change i.e. using less oil and butter in the preparation. Fine tune your diet in consultation with your Doctor.
 
 
 Dr. Rohan Patel, MB, FDRC [DRC (WHO), Chennai], Consultant Diabetologist, Diabetes Clinic, Bharuch
 
 
 
 
 
