MUMBAI: In a unusual case, an aspiring   convicted for   and criminally intimidating a woman classmate has been spared his three-year term and ordered to be released on a one-year bond of  . The victim’s father too sought his release on the grounds that he did not want the young man’s future to be spoilt and only wanted to ensure that he didn’t repeat his conduct.

 The convict, Bhavesh   (24), has been out on bail. The court also acquitted a woman “friend” of his who was named in the case. The victim had alleged that at Waghela’s behest, the woman stalked her on April 15, 2015, accosted her outside her CA exam hall and threatened that Waghela would kill her unless she married him in two hours. This fact too, that a woman was booked and tried for stalking, makes the case rare. Allowing Waghela leniency under the Probation of Offenders Act, the court said, “After giving thorough consideration to the facts and circumstances of the case and that there is no record of criminal antecedents of the accused and that he is young in age and may prove to be a good citizen in future, I am inclined to release him on a bond of good behaviour.”
 
 Acquitting Waghela’s woman “friend”, the court held that there was nothing on record to show that during the relevant period she had any role to play or had shared the intentions of Waghela. It said the woman’s identification parade was not conducted to ascertain if she was the same person who had threatened the victim.
 
 The victim told the court that she was acquainted with Waghela as they attended the same classes for their CA exams in 2013-14 at   (east). She said that during the course, they exchanged class notes 24 times. The victim submitted that her classes came to an end in December 2014, but Waghela would repeatedly call her on her phone and propose marriage. She said that despite her repeated refusals, he continued to call her and later even began to threaten her that neither would he allow her to write her exams, nor would he allow her to marry anyone else. This is when she got scared, the victim told the court.
 
 She said that in March 2015, she confided in her mother. She recalled that on April 17 that year, Waghela called on her home landline. Her father took the call and told him to stop harassing her. Continuing her deposition, the victim told the court that the next day, at 8pm, Waghela came to her home and demanded she marry him; when she rejected his proposal, he threatened her aggressively and said, “Main tujhe dekh lunga.” A police complaint was lodged the day after.
 
 The court said the victim’s evidence was supported by the version submitted by her father. “There is no reason to not believe the evidence of both these witnesses,” it said, adding that the accused will have to serve a sentence decided by the court were he to breach his bond conditions to keep peace and maintain good behaviour.
 
 
