KOZHIKODE: Sunni leader Nazar Faizi   has urged the believers to resort to spiritual remedies to ward off the  . In a voice message on WhatsApp, Koodathayi suggested that those residing near the Nipah-affected areas in Perambra to recite ‘Manqoos Moulid’, Surah al-Yaseen, the 36th chapter of Quran and to invoke Sheikh Abdul Khader Gilani one thousand times.

 
 Koodathayi, the state secretary of the Sunni Yuvajana  , said the remedy was suggested by senior Sunni scholar Vavad Kunhikoya Musaliar on Tuesday. Manqoos Moulid, a work eulogising  , is believed to be composed by Sheikh Zainuddin Makhdoom the First around 500 years ago.
 
 Koodathayi said Vavad Usthad suggested the ‘spiritual remedy’ to prevent the spreading of the Nipah virus and to help those infected a speedy recovery. “This needs to be done by people in groups,” he said, adding, “this should be done even while taking all the precautions and treatments suggested by the authorities.”
 
 Koodathayi said the efficacy of the prayers, including the recitation of Manqoos Moulid, was a time-tested one. “Prayers had an effect during the outbreak of contagious diseases in Malappuram decades ago. People resorted to the spiritual way when the authorities were struggling,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Salafis have come out in the open against the call by the Sunnis, saying that such prayers are un-Islamic. Wisdom Islamic Organisation has begun an online campaign against what they call ‘efforts to bring back superstitious beliefs’.
 
 Replying to Koodathayi, Wisdom leader C P Saleem said Salafis in Kerala had fought such practices during the 1940 epidemics outbreak. In a video posted on Facebook, Saleem said the orthodox sections had prevented giving medicines when there was an outbreak of cholera.
 
 Salafis said the Sunni prayer is against the basic tenets of Islam as it seeks help from forces other than Allah. Manqoos Moulid has verses that seek help from Prophet Muhammad, which is forbidden in Islam and asking Gilani to help is clear ‘shirk’ (polytheism). Salafis say the Nipah-affected patients will go to eternal hell if they resort to the remedies suggested by the Sunnis.
 
 
