CHENNAI:   will no more be just the responsibility of the state  . In a step towards curbing the rampant practice of foeticide in various districts, the departments of social welfare and IT have been roped in to identify hotspots and monitor pregnant women.

 A state-level meeting was held last week between senior officials in the directorate of public health, social welfare department and TN e-governance agency to chart measures to stop sex-selective abortion and to map the sex ratio at birth in all districts to plan intervention.
 
 The sex ratio at birth – the number of girls born per 1,000 boys – has dipped to 911 in 2016-2017 from 923 in 2011-2012, according to the   Health Management Information System. The difference is greater in most northern and central districts compared to those in the south.
 
  
 Social welfare officials say there has also been a drop in newborn girls abandoned in hospitals under the cradle baby scheme. “From our field reports, we have strong reasons to believe it is because of a resurgence in foeticide,” said a senior official. Started in 1992, the cradle baby scheme has helped save 5,037 babies (as on June, 2017), including 4,066 female infants.
 
 Officials say one of the main reasons they suspect foeticide is because many women of higher order pregnancy – who have had more than one pregnancy – fail to return for follow-ups after the fourth month although they register in state programmes initially. During the discussion, social welfare officials said they would contribute towards monitoring these women through their anganwadi centres and train their workers to tip health officials if they suspect sex-selective abortions.
 
 Officials of the e-governance agency said they would map “black spots” in the state where such abortions are high, based on the data they receive from the primary health centre-level onwards.
 
 Since 2016, the health department has come out with a slew of measures to curb foeticide, including making it mandatory for all centres that do assisted reproductive techniques (ARTs) to submit monthly reports on the couples undergoing therapy, their status and the sex of the babies born at ART centres.
 
 
