PATNA: An hour after reshuffling 45 IAS officials on Friday midnight, the state government around 1am on Saturday shifted 24   officers, including SPs of several districts. Seventy DSP-rank officers have also been transferred.

 Kaimur   Harpreet Kaur has been appointed   SSP in place of Vivek Kumar who was suspended on April 17 following raids on his official and residential premises by Bihar Police’s special vigilance unit in connection with a disproportionate assets case.
 
 Patna-headquartered BMP-10 (Patna) commandant Mohd Faroguddin has been shifted to Kaimur as SP, while Gaya SSP Garima Malik replaces Faroguddin in BMP-10. Kishanganj SP   is new Gaya SSP.
 
 Katihar SP Siddhartha Mohan Jain has been relieved for central deputation. He has been posted as SP in CBI.
 
 SP (CID) Sanjay Kumar has been sent to Madhepura as SP in place of Vikash Kumar who has been appointed Katihar SP.
 
 Purnia SP Nishant Kumar Tiwary becomes commandant of BMP-1 in Patna. Patna’s City SP (east) Vishal Sharma is new Purnia SP.
 
 BMP-2 (Rohtas) commandant Parwez Akhtar has been made SP-cum-assistant director of Bihar Police Academy in Patna. Katihar superintendent of rail police (SRP) Umashankar Prasad and Arwal SP Dilip Kumar Mishra have swapped their posts.
 
 Bhagalpur SSP Manoj Kumar goes to Darbhanga as SSP in place of Saytaveer Singh has ben shifted to Rohtas as SP. BMP-13 (Darbhanga) commandant Natasha Guria will be new BMP-2 commandant and will also hold additional charge of women’s battalion in Rohtas district.
 
 Nawada SP Vikash Burman and Sitamarhi SP Hari Prasath S have also swapped their posts. Saharsa SP Ashwini Kumar is new BMP-13 commandant.
 
 Rohtas SP Manavjeet Singh Dhillon has replaced Rakesh Kumar in Vaishali in the same capacity. Kumar has been shifted to Saharsa as SP. City SP (Gaya) Gaurav Mangla is new Munger SP in place of Ashish Bharti who goes to Bhagalpur as SSP. 
 
 Gopalganj SP Ravi Ranjan Kumar has been made BMP-12 commandant in Saharsa, replacing Kumar Ashish who has been shifted to Kishanganj as SP. SP (EOU) Rashid Zaman has been made Gopalganj SP.
 
