  : The   government has decided to introduce biometric attendance and a new app to ensure timely attendance and track performance of employees and officers in their respective workplaces. 

 As desired by the cabinet, the chief minister, other ministers and top bureaucrats would also be included in the digital attendance network and performance surveillance. Initially, it will be started in the civil secretariat and subsequently the entire system will be replicated in all district administration offices, directorates and other government establishments, said a top official here.
 
 Deputy chief minister   said in development and performance indexes, Tripura is at the bottom due to poor work culture. The state could have done much better if discipline, punctuality, accountability and intention of doing the best for society were there. "We will give full benefit of the 7th central pay commission to the employees soon after getting the advice from the  . The government has set 100 days target for each minister, including the chief minister. The same rule will be applicable for every public servant," said Dev Varma. 
 
 He added that the government is ready to start e-offices to reduce the use of paper and speed up administrative work that can be tracked online by ministers and other officials concerned. The deputy CM said though bio-metric system leaves scope for manipulation, the new app will be linked to an employee's or officer's salary bill. In the event of unauthorized absence from office, the person's salary will automatically get deducted. The entire system will be monitored from the chief minister's office. Apart from recording the time of attendance and departure, the new app will also assess the amount of work done, including the time taken to clear files by an employee.
 
 A hi-tech digital network will also be set up at the secretariat to monitor monetary transactions, including receipt and expenditure of the state government, said Dev Varma. He added that all these are being done to improve work culture and also minimize corruption in the administration as the chief minister himself will be able to monitor everything .
 
 
