NEW DELHI: India’s   legend   believes that Indian athletes, prior to a major tournament, need to start competing in order to get the best result. Usha, who brought India to International sports radar with her exceptional sprinting skills in the early 80s and 90s, highlighted  's efforts that fetched him wonderful results during the 1958 Commonwealth Games and the Rome Olympics two years later.

 
 
 
 
 “In competitive sports today I feel athletics, football and swimming are perhaps the three most difficult sports for India to do well. Some great performances by athletes since independence however have laid the foundation for our current athletes to start winning medals at the highest level,” Usha, who has over 100 international medals to her credit, wrote in her column for TOI.
 
 “It was the focussed, determined and well prepared Milkha Singh's effort at the Rome Olympics where he finished fourth to narrowly miss a medal. Milkha had shot into fame with the 1958 Cardiff Commonwealth Games by becoming the first Indian Athlete to win an Athletic Gold in the Games. Milkha's foundation was based on competing at many International Grand Prix Meets each year which prepared him well for the Rome Olympics in 1960.”
 
 
 
 
 
 In 1985, Usha won five gold medals at the Asian Track and Field Championships in Jakarta and in 1986 at the Asian Games in Seoul, claimed four golds and a sliver. She was called Asia’s ‘Golden Girl’ and the ‘Queen of Indian track and field’ for her achievements.
 
 "The 1980's saw the emergence of women athletics. After my first exposure at the 1980 Moscow Olympics I should have won a medal in the LA Olympics but was literally beaten at the finish to be placed fourth in the 400m Hurdles - so near and yet so far," Usha said.
 
 Usha announced her retirement in 1990, but made a comeback in 1993. In 1998, at the age of 34, she broke her own national record in the 200m clinching bronze medal at the Asian Championship in Japan. In 1999, Usha was named the Sportsperson of the Century by  .
 
 “The current crop of athletes are training well and all that they need to do is to compete more often as Milkha Singh did prior to major events. Once an athlete reaches far ahead of his national competition, competing against them is of no major value to that athlete. The athlete then needs to compete against international competitors just above his or her level and gradually close the gap to reach standards required to win an Olympic medal. This systematic planning of competitive exposure is all that our current athletes need to follow,” Usha said.
 
