GURUGRAM: The special investigation team (SIT), which is probing the attack on a school bus and rioting during a protest against controversial film Padmaavat, has told the   (JJB) that five juveniles apprehended for their alleged role in the arson can be discharged as it hasn’t found any evidence against them. The board is expected to pronounce its verdict on Friday, according to police.

 Eleven others arrested for their alleged involvement in the violence were granted bail by a session’s court on Tuesday. Umesh  , SHO of Bhondsi police station, told TOI that of the 20 people apprehended, three — two juveniles and one adult — were discharged earlier. Of the remaining 17, six are juveniles and 11 are adults.
 
 Earlier, of the six juveniles, JJB had given bail to three juveniles while three others are still in the juvenile observation home in  . According to police, serious charges of 307 IPC (attempt to murder) and 379B (snatching with the use of force) registered against them were removed after the investigators found that it was not necessary to slap these charges on them owing to the lack of evidence.
 
 Villagers of Bhondsi had met several politicians and the deputy commissioner earlier, claiming that the juveniles had no role in the violence. “The violence was unleashed by vandals who were stationed at the spot much before the attack on the bus. Our children had gone there only after the incident, and were arrested by police,” said Sandeep, a villager from Bhondsi.
 
 “The probe into arson is still under way. The investigation will continue on the basis of the evidences found,” said Kumar.
 
 Villagers said they were happy with the police probe. “We had to give roll numbers of the children to convince police that they are appearing for exams,” said a villager who didn’t want to be identified.
 
 “We hope that police will examine all facts and help us get justice. Most of these children were just present at the spot as the real accused unleashed violence,” said Sandeep, who is also the district president of Kisan Morcha.
 
 
 
