MUMBAI: The state government has banned strikes by anganwadi workers who run the Centre’s  , a crucial programme which battles malnutrition among young children as well as pregnant and lactating women. The state has invoked the   Essential Services Maintenance Act 2017 (MESMA) against strikes by anganwadi workers in an order issued on March 15.

 The   has planned demonstrations against this on March 27. Last year, anganwadi workers had gone on a 26-day strike demanding a hike in their honorarium.
 
  
 The state has around 97,000 anganwadis run by nearly 2 lakh workers, catering to 56 lakh children below the age of six. At the anganwadis, children are served meals and taught songs, the alphabet and basic hygiene. In deprived regions, these meals are a lifeline for malnourished children. Anganwadi workers also help in immunization programmes and census work. Besides, they provide meals to 9 lakh pregnant and lactating women.
 
 However, they are not paid wages but an honorarium. After the hike last year, anganwadi workers are now paid Rs 6,500-6800 a month. Helpers are paid Rs 3,500 a month.
 
 State officials say MESMA was invoked since anganwadi workers run crucial schemes under the Food Security Act. “This is one of the many steps the state has planned to ensure food security,” said a senior official.
 
 However, anganwadi worker unions are aghast. “Anganwadi workers are not even recognized as government employees. We are not given an honorarium. This is one more step the government is taking to crush workers’ rights,” says Shubha Shamim of the Anganwadi Karmachari Sanghatana. “Our work has only increased with government schemes rising through the years,” she said. “We will take legal advice to counter the government order.”
 
 M A Patil of the Anganwadi Kriti Samiti said, “If the government considers us employees, it must pay us government salaries.”
 
 The government order states that it is necessary “in the public interest” to prohibit strikes in essential services provided by anganwadi workers, their helpers and women who run mini-anganwadis.
 
 
