Cheers of ‘pench, pench, pench, pench, pench...!!!!” ring in the air as a bunch of   revellers on a terrace crowd around the kite flyer who is in the thick of the action at the moment. The 11 am sun is sharp, but not enough to hassle 17-year-old Geetika, who squints, as she fixes her eyes on a bright blue kite that’s veering dangerously close to her silver-grey one. “Cut it, cut it, cut it,” someone hisses. With the confidence of a pro, Geetika sends her kite swooping, and in one swift move, swerves, tugs and pulls, cutting the unknown opponent’s kite to size, literally. “Afffffffffaaa!” scream the bunch of girls around her, as she pulls her manja and kite back, and all of them break into a little victory dance.

 
 Welcome to the patang party, 2018 style. In case you haven’t noticed it yet, girls are ‘penching’ from the front, because, why should boys fly all the kites? “Why should they, really? I spent all my childhood dressing up and doing muggus with my mom; but I soon realised that kites were the best part of Sankranti. Not content with being asked to hold the charak as the boys made the big ‘pench’ moves, I went and learnt how to fly a kite myself. Now, I can ‘pench’ like a pro,” says Geetika. And she isn’t the only one rewriting the unwritten code of who does what on Sankranti. 
 
 
 “See, it’s not like someone stopped us girls from flying kites ever, but the festival has evolved in such a way over the years that girls and guys have very different roles. So, while I have been flying kites all through my childhood, I was always aware of the fact that boys outnumbered girls greatly. if there were eight boys, there would only be two girls who knew how to fly kites from scratch. Others would wait till the boys finished the tougher tasks like tying the knots and sending the kite up in air and would be happy merely holding the kite once it’s air-borne. I think this happened because girls somehow had a set role — two days prior to Sankranti we would plan what kind of rangoli to make and then spend three-four hours preparing it. naturally, over the years one would be a lot more inclined to that. That’s fun too, but so is kite flying,” says Jai Bharathi, a   resident.
 
 Every other rooftop patang party in the city these days has at least a bunch of such kite fighters, clad in comfy cotton kurtis and sun glasses, wielding specially picked manjas that can help put up a good kite fight in the sky. “Just this week I went to   and learnt all about the various kind of kites and manjas to pick the best for my needs. I also know how to tie my kite perfectly. Now, I’m just short of getting my first pench right. I sent my first kite up in the air two Sankrantis ago, and since then the festival has been as much about kite flying as it is about buying new clothes and prettying up,” says Susmitha Rayaprolu.
 
 Interestingly, this whole business of boxing girls into the rangoli department and guys into the kite fight world is a new-age phenomenon, says  , a freelance writer. “I’ve grown up on stories of my mother flying kites, so this talk of kite flying being a guy’s game is such humbug! I think more and more women stopped going out to fly kites due to an inhibition to occupy public spaces,” says Ayesha, adding that she’s pretty pathetic at it due to lack of practise, but hopes to pick up the skills soon.
 
 
 
 Some argue that city-bred boys and girls have lost the touch with kite flying and may have to consciously make an attempt to learn to fly one. Kite-flying, as some pro flyers say, involves a lot of physics and math — from knowing the size of the kite, to knowing where to tie the knot, to breaking tubelights to stain the manja. These skills are probably dying. “I know so many guys who can’t fly kites, so it’s also a generational thing, not just gender problem,” adds Sushmitha. 
 
 
 
 The years lost not flying kites may be many, but these women are not giving up. “Many a time, friends make plans to go for kite festivals to fly kites, but when I tell them I can send a kite up in the air all by myself here, they are surprised. But I won’t let this skill go waste. We live in a Hyderabad, where we did not need a Sankranti to fly kites. so now, every Sankranti I try and teach someone to fly one from scratch,” says Jai Bharathi.
 Ayesha is also certain that this year would be the one when she gets her kite in the skies. “I am going to catch one of the kids and get them to teach me and do it this year,” she quips.
 
 Sushmitha says she has already got the hang of the slang — ‘Kateee...’. “I’ll scream this for sure this year and I will get my first victory patang, just to prove that girls can do this right.”
 
 
