JAIPUR: In order to prevent people from being crushed to death on railway tracks while taking selfies, the Indian Railways has come up with a concept to designate 'selfie points' at various railway stations. 

 Likewise, some areas of the railway station will also be earmarked to hold business meetings. Among 70 railway stations across the country, five major stations in the state-Jaipur, Bikaner, Udaipur and Jodhpur, Gandhi Nagar-will have these facilities. TOI received a copy of the letter from Ashok Lohani, chairman, railway board, who has asked general managers of various zonal railways, including the   ( ), to complete the work by December 2018. 
 
 According to data available with the Indian Railways, at least seven people have been killed while taking selfies across the country. Most of the deaths occurred near railway tracks.
 
 "Many people have the craze of taking selfies while they start or end their journey at a railway station. Youths have been found taking selfies near railway tracks. This has become a dangerous trend. So, it was decided to have dedicated 'selfie points' at various railway stations. Presently, 70 railway stations have been selected for the project and later this would be extended to all A1 and A class stations," said a senior officer of railway board on condition of anonymity.
 
 When contacted, Tarun Jain, chief public relations officer, NWR, confirmed it. "We will have two such points at   and   railway stations. We will also develop these points at Bikaner, Udaipur and Jodhpur railway stations," he said. "We will select some area on platform No 1, near the foot overbridge or some other safe area," Jain added.
 
 Other amenities to be implemented include water ATMS in waiting halls, mobile charging points, wheel chairs and volunteers. Interestingly, these stations have also been suggested to create their own jingle. "Stations may also create their own jingle which can be played during public announcements," said an official. The selected five railway stations are likely to have areas to hold meetings. "There is a plan to give a dedicated paid area at railway stations to hold business meetings of two to six persons," the official said. 
 
 
