JODHPUR: Period drama ‘Padmaavat’, banned in the state, will be finally screened at a multiplex screen in the city on Monday.

 But this will be a special screening for high court judge Sandeep Mehta and other judicial staff. It’s being held following a petition filed by film director Sanjay Leela Bhansali to quash an FIR filed against him and actors   and   at Deedwana police station last year in March.
 
 After the petitioner agreed to screen the film for the court and Justice Mehta ordered the same to be held on Monday, adequate security arrangements have been made by the administration.
 
 In view of the Apex court’s order, Justice Mehta observed, “This court is of the firm opinion that the screening of the movie is essential for securing the ends of justice.”
 
 “The court first enquired if the film could be screened at the Rajasthan State Judicial Academy. But given the low resolution there, we expressed our wish to screen the film at any multiplex screen in the city,” said Bhansali’s counsel Nishant Bora, adding that the film would now be screened on Monday evening at the   Royal Plaza.
 
 
 
 On the issue of apprehensions raised about security arrangements to be made for the screening, the court had summoned the police commissioner. While assuring to put in place adequate security arrangements, he, however, sought two weeks’ time for this.
 
 The court expressed displeasure over seeking time and asked the commissioner if the same wouldn’t amount to contempt as the Supreme Court had already given the go ahead to screen the film.
 
 “The court ordered the screening of the film on Monday and directed the commissioner to ensure required security arrangements,” Bora said.
 
 The court has now listed the matter for hearing after screening on February 6, when the court will decide on the prayer of Bhansali to quash the FIR against him and the two lead actors of the film.
 
 It may be recalled that an FIR had been filed by two persons,   and Nagpal Singh, at Deedwana police station in March last year, alleging that the film has distorted historical facts and hurt the image of Queen Padmini.
 
 Challenging the FIR, Bhansali had moved court with the prayer to quash the same. The high court had then stayed the FIR, but let the investigation into the matter continue.
 
 
