HYDERABAD:   had an answer - a frank admission - for   who had charged the   with taking up various programmes with an eye on the elections. "Yes. We definitely want to get more votes. So what is wrong about that. It is only natural for any political party to think on such lines. This is the meaning of democracy," Chandrasekhar Rao said.

 Some more frank talking by the chief minister also evoked chuckles from the treasury benches when the chief minister described how political parties react whenever the budget is presented. 
 
 "It is natural for the ruling party members to laud the budget. Whichever party is in power, its members do just that, appreciating the budget and praising it. And opposition parties always say the budget is not good. They do not acknowledge anything in the budget. This is how politics has been over the last three decades that I have seen. This must change. I wish the opposition is far and appreciates the budget for what it is," Chandrasekhar Rao said.
 
 The TRS President also praised West Bengal chief minister and All India Trinamul Congress leader Mamata Banerjee for changing the face of Kolkata and making it a better city. "Your party (CPM) ruled West Bengal for several years but it was Mamata Banerjee who developed Kolkata as I saw recently," he said asking CPM member in the assembly Sunnam Rajaiah to refrain from being critical of the Telangana government which was on the development path. 
 
 Chandrasekhar Rao also asked BJP legislators in the assembly, particularly G Kishan Reddy and C Ramachandra Reddy to understand facts before rushing to be critical of the government, especially in the assembly. Explaining the various developmental programmes that were being undertaken by the government, the chief minister also reiterated that six airstrips would be developed in various places in Telangana where flights would be able to land and take off. These would be in Warangal, Nizamabad, Adilabad, Mahbubnagar and Kothagudem.
 
 To decongest   area, he said a railway terminal was also planned at Cherlapalli. The chief minister said Pharma City near Hyderabad had been planned in 19,000 acres of land which would include pharma industries and a Pharma University.
 
 He said there would be no pollution there as being alleged by the opposition. "We will use the latest technology in the world to ensure that there is no pollution. "If you talk without knowledge, you will get less votes in the next elections," the CM told C Ramachandra Reddy of the BJP. 
 
 Chandrasekhar Rao also reiterated that   would be developed with a budget of Rs 500 crore. He said the lower Manair dam would ensure irrigation water to the entire area. "As I said before, Karimnagar will be like London. We can dream about it," he said. However, he was critical of the BJP for attributing something to him which he did not say. 
 
 "When did I ever say Warangal will be like Singapore. Kishan Reddy (of the BJP) probably dreamt that I said it," he said. The chief minister announced what when the official camp offices of MLAs are constructed, they will also be able to hoist the national flag on Independence day and Republic day with officials being in attendance. "Legislators should get the respect the deserve," he said.
 
