KOLKATA: A distant relative mercilessly beat up a trader at   with iron rods while he was bringing his son back home from his exam centre on Monday, the first day of his Madhyamik. Attacked on the head thrice over a property dispute,   (45) died on Tuesday at a hospital.

 The son, Subham, was also assaulted with a rod but his injury was not major. Though severely traumatized, he managed to sit for his second day of boards exam on Tuesday.
 
 The police are on the lookout for the main accused,  , also Bijay’s neighbour, as well as an aide.
 
 The incident took place around 3.40pm when Bijay, a resident of Naihati’s Garifa, was riding his motorcycle, with his son sitting pillion.
 
 Witnesses claimed   alias  , along with his accomplice  , were waiting in front of Bijay’s shoe shop; as he rode past the shop, the two pounced on him. “Dhananjay first hit   on his head with an iron rod from behind, throwing both the father and the son off the bike. Dhananjay and   then ran up to Bijay and again hit him in the head twice. Subham ran to his father’s rescue, but the accused attacked him with the rod as well. But Subham escaped with minor injuries,” said Ramratan Parasad, another trader. Subham cried out in horror, raising an alarm. But the accused gave them the slip. A CCTV camera near Bijay’s shop captured the attack. The father-son duo was taken to Kalyani JNM hospital, where Bijay died the next morning.
 
 Subham looked devastated as he returned from his exam centre on Tuesday. “They hit my father on the head with a rod. He fell off the bike and so did I. The accused pounced on him and hit on the head twice more. When I rushed to my father, they hit me on my hand. My father lay unconscious, blood-spattered,” the boy said.
 
 Aneighbour said Bijay was caught in a dispute with Dhananjay for long over a common passage between their houses. “Both families tried to grab the common space,” he claimed.
 
 Barrackpore police chief Rajesh Singh said, “We suspect an old rivalry was the reason behind the murder. CCTV images are being checked and a raid is on to nab the culprits.”
 
 
 
 
