MUMBAI: The   on Wednesday asked Mumbai   to spell out if they had any plans to tackle traffic congestion in the crowded Kalbadevi neighbourhood. A division bench of Justices Naresh Patil and Nitin Sambre suggested police could declare specific times as “pedestrian-only” or increase parking rates.

 The high court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by resident Rajkumar Shukla on traffic congestion in Kalbadevi, a popular shopping area comprising Crawford Market, Chira Bazaar, Princess Street and other streets. The HC bench said it was not satisfied with the affidavit that the traffic police had filed regarding measures taken to ease the situation.
 
 “Placing two constables on each street is not a plan,” said Justice Patil. The judge pointed out that the neighbourhood was located just across the street from the headquarters of the Mumbai police commissioner. 
 
 “The area housing your police commissioner should be the best and most disciplined area in Mumbai. But the reality is different. Drawing up a proper plan means making proposals for underground and multi-storey car parking, restricting vehicle timings, ensuring footpaths are clear and pedestrians have place to walk and shoppers have proper access,” said the judge. 
 
 Justice Sambre remarked traffic constables are often seen talking on their mobile phones.
 
 The bench directed the petitioner to add the BMC as a party in the case. It asked the traffic police to hold a meeting with shop owners in the area to work out a proper traffic management plan.
 
 Advocate S R Patel, counsel for the petitioner, pointed out cars and bikes were carelessly parked on narrow roads in the neighbourhood. “There is double and even triple parking on the roads. There have already been a few incidents where ambulances and emergency vehicles were stuck and could not reach on time,” said advocate Patel. The HC bench has scheduled further hearing of the case on February 16, when it has listed other petitions about traffic problems in Mumbai for hearing.
 
