BHUBANESWAR:   and   have issues to deal with as they gear up for first the Super Cup semifinal here on Monday.

 
 The situation in the FC Goa camp, though, is far grimmer.
 
 Their tempestuous quarterfinal win over Jamshedpur FC came with a heavy price, forcing them to miss five key players through suspension. As the dust settled on that game, which saw three players from both sides being sent off following a bust-up in the tunnel at half time, Goa coach   is dreading the prospect of playing another match with “not even 11 players.”
 
 The ISL semifinalists had gone into the tournament with 23 players, two less than the normal 25-member squad. According to Pereira, at least four players from the 18 at his disposal are nursing injuries while two of the remaining 14 are goalkeepers.
 
 “There’s a possibility that we may have to start from where we had ended the last match — with 8 players on the pitch. I’m struggling to assemble 11 players for the match,” the FC Goa coach informed on Sunday, adding that four-five players may play their first competitive match of the season.
 
 While their rivals’ woes would be welcome news for East Bengal, the red and golds have their own problems as well. A pathetic conversion rate, coupled with Dudu Omagbemi’s poor form, has been a major concern for Khalid Jamil’s side and the team management is leaving no stone unturned to help the Nigerian regain his scoring touch.
 
 Technical director Subhas Bhowmick, who had thus far confined himself to behind-the-scenes preparation, was at the forefront during East Bengal’s practice session at the Kalinga Stadium’s training ground on Sunday. He spent time with Dudu and the two key midfielders — Mahmoud Al Amna and Katsumi Yusa — who will be entrusted with the duty of linking up with the striker in the attacking third.
 
 Jamil emphasized that there’s no question of taking the opponents lightly despite the predicament FC Goa find themselves in. “The success of a team depends on how you perform on the given day. It’s always an 11-vs-11 game. FC Goa are a very good side and they will surely make it difficult for us,” said Khalid, who played under Pereira during his Mahindra United days.
 
 Bhowmick also warned his players against complacency, talking from his own experience. “I faced a similar situation at East Bengal in 2002 when we were forced to play the IFA Shield match against Tollygunge Agragami (in the group stage) after seven of my first-team players were called up for national duty. I had to make defender Suley Musah a striker and he ended up scoring to hand us a 2-1 win,” Bhowmick recalled.
 
 Katsumi may be asked to operate in a free zone to give more support to Dudu, while right-back Samad Ali Mallick will be more active as an attacking reinforcement.
 
 Pereira had a word of caution for East Bengal. “I am confident that whoever takes the field tomorrow will give their best. We have had a very good team throughout the season. It’s their chance to grab the opportunity.”
 
 It’s advantage East Bengal but a depleted FC Goa are ready to accept the odds-defying challenge.
 
 
