RAJKOT: Dogs have an urge to pee whenever they spot the tyre of a car. However, in   on   in Rajkot, which eight stray dogs have made their abode, they resist their temptation and always go out to take a leak. 

 “Not only they don’t pee on tyre, they also respect the cars of the customers who come to our shop,” says Wagh, who took VRS from the forest department as a range forest officer in 2011. 
 
 “My love for animals led me to accommodate these stray dogs in my showroom since the time they were puppies in 2005. My air-conditioned showroom doesn’t restrict stray dogs’ movements. They come here, play and even entertain the kids of my customers who specially come to see them,” he says. 
 
 “In 2005 some of these dogs were puppies and they used to come here to play. We provided them a shelter at the shop and they have been living here since then,” says Wagh. 
 
 Currently Wagh is leading a retired life and his son Rajesh has taken over the business from him. Rajesh, also a canine lover, says: “Normally a dog barks when it sees a stranger, but to my astonishment, these dogs understand that customers are valuable and they never bark when they come.”
 
 The dogs at the showroom are served Bhakhri and milk twice a day. “These dogs have become our family members. I and my four employees feed them. They never spoil the shop and if they want to pee, they go outside the shop,” says Rajesh. 
 
 When the shop is closed on Sunday, the shop keepers do not forget to come and feed the dogs. The people in the neighbourhood also come to feed the dogs. “Whenever they have functions in the family like birthday party or marriage, they come with special food for these dogs and feed them.” Rajesh says.
 
 The Waghs’ love for the canine is not confined to their showroom. The stray dogs also visit and enjoy their hospitality at their residence in Pushkardham society. “Dogs from all nearby areas come to my home. When I pass through nearby society they stop my bike and play with me. I believe that I am paying debt of my previous birth. They might have helped me in my previous birth in some way. Now, I am paying that back.” says Wagh.
 
 
