A joyous and colourful festival,   is celebrated with great enthusiasm by Hindus across India. Also, spelled as  , it is observed on the fifth day of the spring season. The word ‘Vasant’ means spring and ‘Panchami’ means ‘fifth day'. According to the Hindu calender, Basant Panchami falls in the month of Magha, which is the fifth day of Shukla Paksha. It is the bright day which falls every year around late January or early February. 

  This significant day marks the beginning of Spring season. Especially dedicated to Goddess Saraswati, Basant Pachami is celebrated with great enthusiasm in northern, western and central parts of India. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 According to the Hindu mythology, it is believed that Goddess Saraswati, who is the deity of music, wisdom, knowledge art and science was born on this auspicious day. Her devotees worship her, perform Saraswati Puja, chant Saraswati mantra and visit the temples of the Goddess.
 
 The Hindu God of love, Kamadeva, and his wife Rati are also associated with Basant Panchami. It is believed that Lord Kamadeva was burnt to ashes by Lord Shiva. It was due to his wrongdoings. To bring back her husband, Rati underwent a 40-day strict penance. On this day, Lord Shiva finally yielded to her request and brought Kama back to life. From that day till today, Lord Kama, the god of love, along with his wife Rati are also worshipped by devotees in several parts of India.
 
 
 
 
  As per the Hindu calender, Basant Panchami 2018 will be observed on 22
  January. Panchami Tithi will begin on 21st January at 3.33 pm and will end on 22nd January 208 at 4.24pm. The ideal time to perform rituals and prayer (Vasant Panchami Puja Muhurta) is from 7.37am to 12.32pm.
 
  The main ingredients required (or Puja samagri) for prayer and rituals are:
 
  Mango wood
 
  Havan Samidha
 
  Shodash Matrika
 
  Yellow clothes
 
  Saffron sweets
 
  Kalash
 
  Shriphal
 
  Kesar
 
  Turmeric (Haldi)
 
  Vermillion (Kumkum)
 
  Akshat
 
  Naivedya
 
  Ganga water (Gangajal)
 
  Chandan
 
  Durva dal
 
  Saraswati yantra 
 
  You must chant the following mantra while praying to Goddess Saraswati: 
 
  या कुन्देन्दुतुषारहारधवला या शुभ्रवस्त्रावृता
 
  या वीणावरदण्डमण्डितकरा या श्वेतपद्मासना।
 
  या ब्रह्माच्युत शंकरप्रभृतिभिर्देवैः सदा वन्दिता
 
  सा मां पातु सरस्वती भगवती निःशेषजाड्यापहा॥
 
 
  शुक्लां ब्रह्मविचार सार परमामाद्यां जगद्व्यापिनीं
 
  वीणा-पुस्तक-धारिणीमभयदां जाड्यान्धकारापहाम्।
 
  हस्ते स्फटिकमालिकां विदधतीं पद्मासने संस्थिताम्
 
  वन्दे तां परमेश्वरीं भगवतीं बुद्धिप्रदां शारदाम्॥२॥
 
  Which means, “before reciting the Srimad-Bhagavatam, which is the very means of conquest, one should offer obeisance unto the Personality of Godhead, Narayana, unto Nara-narayaana rishi, the super most human being, unto mother Sarasvati, the goddess of learning, and unto Srila Vyasadeva, the author."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 To perform the puja, take a bath early in the morning by adding Gangajal to your bathing water. The water must also contain neem and tulsi leaves. This purifies the body and because of its medicinal properties, it protects you from all kinds of infection too.
 
 Dress yourself in yellow coloured clothes as it is considered auspicious to wear yellow in this day. Place the idol of Goddess Saraswati on a raised platform after covering it with a white cloth. Offer flowers, turmeric, kumkum, rice and garlands to the Goddess. Fill an inkpot with milk and put a wooden pen in it to place it in front of the idol.
 
 Offer water with five mango leaves dipped in the holy water. Betel nut and durva grass along with flowers should be offered to seek blessing of the Goddess of knowledge.
 
 Now light the lamp, incense sticks and offer sweets, fruits and other food items.
 
  
  
 
