CHENNAI:   chief minister and   president   ( ) said he had been meeting political party leaders and chief ministers to bring about a political alignment to make a “better India” and to ensure that the country reflected the qualities of a “truthful federalism”. He brushed aside speculation that he was in the city as part of an attempt to create a Third Front, sans the BJP and the Congress.

  
    with KCR
 
 “There is nothing called third or fourth or fifth front. It is only media speculation. This is not a mere alignment of political parties with elections in mind. We are working for the betterment of the country,” KCR told reporters here, in the presence of   working   M K Stalin, who hosted him for lunch before they had a lengthy discussion on the political situation in the country. The meeting lasted about one-and-a-half hours.
 
 “I came to meet my brother Stalin. We have been talking for quite sometime and we both had a talk over the telephone with Mamata Banerjee (chief minister of West Bengal). Discussions with like-minded parties will continue and it will take two to three months before a consensus can emerge. We had a delightful meeting and a good meal,” Rao said.
 
 India should be a secular country and there were no second thoughts about it, he said. “We discussed the devolution of more powers and funds for states. There are several subjects like education and healthcare over which states should have a free hand, while the Centre can focus on external affairs and on leveraging India’s economy globally,” Rao said.
 
 Stalin said the two leaders discussed state autonomy and bringing education back on the States’ list, among other issues. “I also informed him about the state autonomy conference that the DMK is planning to hold shortly. Political decisions can only be taken by the executive and general councils of the party,” Stalin said.
 
 Earlier, Rao called on DMK president M   at his Gopalapuram residence, where he was received by Stalin in the presence of former Union ministers T R Baalu and A Raja. Karunanidhi presented Rao some books. “Karunanidhi is the tallest leader in our country and all from south should be proud of him,” Rao said.
 
 
