BAREILLY: In an attempt to prevent the general public from consuming stale   that often cause diarrhoea and food poisoning, the deputy commissioner of food safety department, Sanjay Pandey, has instructed officials to ensure all sweet shops in the district must display the   of sweets as well as the “best before” date.
 
  Pandey added, “Sweets made of condensed milk are extremely perishable. They expire after 48 hours. We will conduct a survey of all sweet shops and instruct them to display the ‘best before’ date on boxes.”
  
  The   (FSDA) department has run an intense drive against adulterated edible items before Holi, destroying several quintals of condensed milk and other items.
  
  “During a week-long drive before Holi, we have destroyed around 25 quintals of adulterated condensed milk and other raw material used in making sweets and other edible items. Our drive will keep continue round the year. The malpractice of selling stale and adulterated edible items is not limited to the festive season. Some shopkeepers are always trying to clear their old stock by mixing perishable items with fresh ones,” a food safety inspector said.
  
  Pandey told TOI, “The display of manufacturing date as well as expiry date of perishable items is not a new thing. It is already in the norms prescribed by the FSDA department. It can’t be denied that these rules have not been followed strictly here in the past, but we will make sure that nobody violates rules and regulations which directly affect the health of common man. If sweet-shopkeepers don’t comply, their licences will be cancelled.”
  
  The officials say that except a few, most shopkeepers didn’t keep their sweets at temperatures where they stayed fresh. “Over 90% of sweets are made from condensed milk. The shelf life of condensed milk, if kept at freezing temperature, is three to four days at the most. Once the sweet is ready, using condensed milk, it must be used within 48 hours. But mostly shopkeepers keep selling such extremely perishable items after 48 hours of making them,” the official said.
