THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Debut features ‘Ottamuri velicham’ and ‘Aedan’ triumphed at the  , 2017, bagging four awards each in different categories. On International Women's Day,  , the debut film of  , which tells the stunning resistance of a woman to domestic abuse, won the award for best film. The film also won special mention for female actor  , best editor award for Appu Bhattathiri (also for Veeram) and best female character actor award for Pauli Valsan.

 
 Sanju Surendran's ‘Aedan’ won the award for second best film. Aedan was earlier awarded the FIPRESCI prize for best Malayalam film in IFFK-2017. The film also took away best awards for cinematographer, adapted screenplay and sound editing. A stirring portrayal of an old father wandering in search of his son in the movie Aalorukkam earned Indrans his first ever award for best actor. The film written and directed by V C Abhilash has Indrans playing Pappu Pisharadi, an Ottan Thullal artiste.
 
 Parvathy rode on the success of real life survival drama Take-off to win her second award for best female actor. The film also earned Mahesh Narayanan, the award for the best debut director. Lijo Jose Pellisserry's off-beat, experimental work Ee.Ma.Yau won him the best director award.
  
  
 
 Alencier Ley Lopez won the award for best character role, playing an inept cop craving for glory in the film Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum. M K Arjunan won the award for best music director, the first ever state award for the veteran musician, for his compositions in the film Bhayanakam. Shahbaz Aman and Sithara Krishnakumar won awards for best male and female playback singers for movies Mayanadi and Vimanam respectively.
 
 Sajiv Pazhoor won the award for best script writer for the movie Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum. MA Nishad, who wrote the story for the film Kinar, won the award for the best story writer.
 
 Award for best art director went for Santosh Raman (Take off) and the best lyricist went to Prabha Varma.
 
 The 10-member jury headed by TV Chandran selected 23 out of 110 films to decide the awards. The jury opined that a major share of films did not approach the film medium seriously and that the standards of many of the films were dismal.
 
 
 
 KOCHI: Actor   on Thursday said the state award for best actor bestowed on her has nothing to do with her personal and political opinions. “It is Women’s Day. Mareena (the woman who inspired the award-winning character Sameera) and other nurses who went to Iraq had dealt with the crisis courageously. This award is dedicated to them,” the actor said.
 
 The actor said that she is not in the profession to prove Parvathy, the citizen right. “I act to become characters and to become a tool to reflect the society. I am not associating this with my personal political opinions. Rather than calling it a woman-oriented film, we should consider it as a normal story. A story that we should be proud of,” she said.
 
 Responding to the cyberattacks she recently faced Parvathy said that even those who were angry at her would know that Sameera’s story was important.
 
 Actor Parvathy, who has been vocal in her stance on equality and work place harassment also dedicated the award to the Women in Cinema Collective.
 
 “We formed a sisterhood to share our thoughts. So, I dedicate this award to all my WCC friends,” said the actor.
 
