Let’s roll out the red carpet for ultra violet – the Pantone Colour of the Year 2018. We tell you how to use this shade in fashion, beauty and home decor.

 Remember Maleficent’s black and purple robe in the feature film Sleeping Beauty or Ursula’s skin tone in The Little Mermaid? Enigmatic purple or violet has always been associated with magic, mystic and drama. Moreover, it’s a shade that’s been a favourite among royalty across the globe, only for its electrifying opulence and luxurious feel. While the colour definitely celebrates the new wave of optimism, it has successfully emerged as the post product of the trendy lilac and lavender that ruled all major Spring-Summer 2018 runways. According to The Pantone Colour Institute, ultra violet is a reflection of what’s needed in our world today. Designer Nandita Mahtani says, “The powerful purplish shade signifies originality and nonconformity and encourages you to experiment and create something unique, by pushing the boundries of your creative channels.” 
 
 
 
 There are several was of introducing ultra violet in your wardrobe. The simplest is using a violet accessory or going for a shade of the colour on the ensemble. “Women can go for an outfit in solid colour and tone it down with whites and pastels. If you want to take things a notch up, experiment with colour blocking,” suggests designer Karn Malhotra. 
 
 For a distressed casual look, opt for a strappy top in this colour and pair with a boyfriend denim. For dressy evenings, sport a violet pantsuit with a statement accessory. However, if you are not ready to embrace the colour completely, start small. Mahtani suggests investing in a pair of earrings, neckpieces, footwear or a pair of sunglasses in violet. 
 
 
 
 “Men can go subtle with a tie or pocket square in ultra violet or go all out with a velvet jacket or an entire suit,” Malhotra mentions. Whatever you choose to wear, refrain from matching accessories or shoes/belts with an ultra violet outfit. Learn the trick to balance the hue with neutral colours as overdoing it might ruin the look. The good bit? Ultra violet works well for most Indian skin tones, feel free to create eccentric looks using interesting prints, different textures and statement cuts. 
 — With additional inputs from designers Pria Kataaria Puri, Lina Mane, Pooja Sachan, Varsha Wadhwa and Chandni Sahi 
 
 
  
  
 
 Ultra violet compliments and blends beautifully with all berry shades like deep mauve, amethyst, magenta, raspberry pink, along with black
 
 
 Pantsuit for women in this shade screams power dressing and subtle feminine confidence. Team a neutral tank or frilled blouse with this look
 
 
 Ultra violet works brilliantly for destination wedding ceremonies and cocktails. Offset UV with apple green, mango yellow, fuchsia pink for colourful, vibrant looks. To keep it subtle, go with rustic weaves in violet and strike a contrast with gun metal greys, off-white or even copper tones. Inject a bold dosage of glitter or go for a metallic sheen for a cocktail look. Lurex, brocade, sequins, neoprene can be your go-to fabric choices
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Ultra violet can be a tricky shade for men, but a smart button down shirt in silk teamed with charcoal suit, a UV-coloured printed vest with a kurta or even pewter grey woolen set would look stunning
 
 
 Violet is easy to play up in feminine floaty silhouettes. Use a dreamy print in a feminine cut for an effective day look. Pair with white accessories
 
 
 Violet is one colour that looks stunning in velvet. When opting for a cut in the luxurious, shimmering fabric, keep everything else neutral. Go for a top-to-bottom violet look and break it with gold accessories
 
  
  
 
 
 This shade of violet works best for athlesuire silhouettes for both sexes. Think jogger pants, sweatshirt, bomber jacket, etc
 
 
 Invest in UV fabric accessories like neck scarf and textile jewellery
 
