PUNE: The state government’s move to ban the sale of tobacco and consumer goods under one roof, including grocery stores, food joints, malls and supermarkets, is fraught with challenges.

 The challenges, however, have not dampened the spirits of   (FDA) officials, who are banking on carrot and stick policy to ensure that the ban is followed in letter and spirit in the state. “We will first sensitize people involved in food businesses about the ban. We will then initiate action when there is wilful violation of the ban,” state FDA commissioner   told TOI. 
 
 The administration also aims to judiciously make use of legal provisions to work in the ban’s favour.
 
 As per Section 31 (1) and Section 32 (2) of Food Safety and Standards Act 2006, it is mandatory for food business operators to obtain either a licence or a registration from the FDA. Operating food businesses without the mandatory licence or registration is punishable under section 63 of the act.
 
 “Using these norms, we will ensure that every old and new operator seeking either licence or registration is made aware about the ban and the repercussion of not abiding by it,”  , joint commissioner (headquarters), FDA, said.
 
 The FDA officials also aim to rope in NGOs working in the field of tobacco control. “We aim to sensitise society about the ban through these NGOs,” Salunke said.
 
 Besides, the administration is also trying to see if government officials working in various capacities at village, taluka, district and municipal corporation levels can also be conferred powers to initiate action if they come across any breach of the ban, he added.
 
 But, undoubtedly, insufficient workforce and burgeoning illegal food businesses are going to hamper the implementation of the ban. “There are 265 approved posts of food safety officials (FSO) in   when in reality there should be one post for every 50,000 populations. Going by this norm, the state needs more than 4,000 FSOs to effectively oversee the work,” health activist   said.
 
 Adding to the woes, 40 posts of FSO are still lying vacant.
 
 Illegal food business is another issue that needs to be tackled. “Only 40% food business operators have either sought licence or registration, remaining 60% food business operators are not in the FDA’s loop,”   said.
 
 
