The latest episode of   was emotional as   had to leave the Bigg Boss Marathi house.

  had revealed in the previous episode that Rajesh and   are in the danger zone and one out of the two had to leave the house. But he did not announce the name of the evicted contestant. After hearing that, Resham left the living area getting teary-eyed. Rajesh tried to calm her down and the two hugged each other. 
 
 Resham asked Rajesh to stay back in the house but he said he will go mad if he stays in the house any longer. 
 
 Jui called Rajesh and Resham for having dinner. But Resham said she refused to have dinner with Sai and Megha. Resham even said that she has made a mistake by coming to the show. Her son had warned her not to go in Bigg Boss house.
 
 The day started with the song 'Khel Mandala'. Megha and Sai are seen talking about Rajesh and how they are feeling bad for him and Resham, as both of them are in danger zone. Rajesh also told Resham that she should not play the game from her heart. But Resham told Rajesh that she hasn't come in the show to entertain the audience. 
 
 Jui wasn't aware that the captain gets the power of immunity. She felt that she might get eliminated. So Megha made fun of her. Resham then sat on Rajesh's lap. Seeing that, Usha and Megha gossip about them.
 
 Smita told Megha that she has no hard feelings for Usha and she respects her. But when Megha told this to Usha, she lost her temper. Usha shared a story about her husband with Megha. She said that because of one incident she didn't talk to her husband till he died.
 
 Bigg Boss then called Rajesh and Resham in the activity area. There the two met Mahesh Manjrekar. Mahesh had a conversation with them and declared the result that Rajesh has to leave the house and Resham had to pack his bag and keep it in the storeroom. 
 
 Hearing the results, Resham is unable to control herself and bursts into tears. She went inside the house and cried. Everyone tried to console her. 
 
 Mahesh then informed Rajesh that he will not be going out of the house but will be staying in a   from where he can watch and listen to people inside the house. 
 
 On the other hand, Aastad thinks of a plan and says if they create a rift between Megha and Sai then their friendship will break which will benefit Resham, Aastad, Smita, Jui, Sushant, and Bhushan. According to his plan, they will have to praise Megha for all the things which will make Sai fee jealous. This will ultimately lead to a fight between the two.
 
 Bigg Boss then placed a throne in the garden area for a new task. Everyone in the house seemed to be excited. Megha had little idea about the task so she tried giving some hints to the housemates. For this, Bigg Boss punished Megha. She was asked to do 20 sit-ups in front of everyone. 
 
 Then a phone rang which was kept on the throne. Pushkar rushed to receive the call as a result he got nominated for receiving the call first. Bigg Boss asked him to do a simple task to get safe from the upcoming week's elimination. Bigg Boss asked Pushkar to convince Usha for dressing like Anil Thatte and do a ramp walk. 
 
 Usha agreed to do the task. She entertained everyone by dressing like Anil and walked on the ramp with him.
 
 
