Now that I have tasted a drop from the ocean of music, my time is almost up” — Pyarelal Wadali

 Pyarelal’s passing is not a loss to just Punjab’s folk music, but to the country. Both the Wadali Brothers were uniquely placed. I have charted their musical journey from the late 1980s and 1990s. Their realm straddled various genres. I recall an audience comprising the best of Indian classical music enraptured by their intricate “taans” and begging for more. They have been unlike many other names in that they reached people across genres and were very eclectic.
 
 When it comes to musical aesthetics, Puranchand Wadali’s voice had a husky tone. On the other hand, Pyarelal’s voice had a lot of depth and clarity. He had a certain intelligence. His poetic interventions were remarkably contemplative and thought-stimulating. Puranchand knew all about vocal acrobatics and was the showman. Pyarelal was less about vocal acrobatics. He would say very complex taan structures very unassumingly. His contribution, both raagic and poetic, was qualitative. I would not mistake their music as merely folk or even Sufi. They were trained in various genres of classical music.
 
 Pyarelal was a very unique vocalist. He never held a musical instrument. He never even held a harmonium. He sang solo. Puranchand had a harmonium. Therefore, the handicap with which Pyarelal sang all his life was higher. That needs to be celebrated because so much is lost in the glitter.
 
 He was endowed with enough talent that he never had to live in the shadow of his elder brother. Their jugalbandi was in league with the best. In such pairs, usually, one brother is a stellar performer while the other fills the gaps and offers support. In their case, both the brothers were soloists yet were singing together. I would salute Pyarelal for being so much into his own and for his spectacular contribution.
 
 Three or four years ago, when his nephew Lakhwinder was my nominee for the (Lalit Kala Akademi’s) National Academy award, Ustad Bismillah Khan Yuva Puraskar, which he eventually got, Pyarelal joked at my whitening beard.
 
 He said, ‘Bhaiji appan budde ho gaye haan (We have now aged).’ This was followed by a rather reflective remark, ‘Jadon sangeet de samundar ton ikk boond palle pai hai, sama mukk chaleya (Now that I have tasted a drop from the ocean of music, my time is almost up). He was not well at the time and he made this observation in a moment of nostalgia for old times and elders. His legacy makes him immortal and I hope it lives on in the hearts of the young.
 
 Any wannabe exponent of music needs to learn from the lives of these two brothers. You do not need to resort to gimmicks to gain an audience. Purity has an impact. Pure music never ages. You don’t need a wasteful indulgence in technology. I know people who walk and talk like stars will never be able to reach their orbit. They were known by the uniqueness of their repertoire with poetry and old kalams. They were scholar musicians. They were a proud people who loved their roots. I remember Pyarelal as someone with dignity and pride laced with humility.
 
 As told to Misha Pillai
 
 (Bhai Baldeep Singh is prime exponent of  , pedagogue, poet, percussionist, luthier, conservator of intangible heritage and founder of The  )
 
 
