KOLKATA: The   on Sunday ruled out an electoral alliance with   in upcoming polls. This strategic line, which was vetted at the party’s central committee (CC) meeting here and was given the go-ahead, will have to wait for the final seal of approval at CPM’s party congress in April in Hyderabad.

 “As per the adopted draft, there is no understanding or electoral alliance with the Congress. But the final decision on that can only be taken at the party congress in Hyderabad. That will be the party’s political line for the next three years,” said CPM general secretary Sitaram  . 
 
 The draft resolution will now reach the party’s rank and file for discussion before it is taken up at the Hyderabad meeting. 
 
 “We are clear from the last party congress and we have maintained our position regarding Congress. No political front or an alliance is possible with the Congress. It represents the interest of the ruling classes,” Yechury said, pointing out the political line it adopted in the 2002 party congress in Hyderabad. 
 
 But Yechury maintained that states going to polls will have their own strategic positions to maximise anti-BJP votes. “Our main opposition is BJP-RSS combine. We will concretise our tactics at the time of election. States concerned will decide on how the maximum amount of anti-BJP votes can be pooled,” he said. 
 
 The CPM, which debated the strategic line at the CC meeting, will go it alone in the Tripura assembly polls although it recognized BJP as the “emergent anti-Left pole” in the state. With the objective to achieve maximum pooling of anti-BJP votes, CPM will pit its successes in the state against economic and foreign policies being pursued by the Centre. 
 
 “In Tripura, the basic fight is with the BJP-RSS combine, which is communicating with extremist forces like IPFT (Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura). We are going as Left Front in Tripura and will ask people to vote against the BJP combine,” Yechury said. 
 
 Criticising BJP’s economic policies, Yechury said people’s living conditions had worsened after implementation of GST and demonetization. Sectors were being opened up for foreign investment and there was a systemic streak of undermining authorities. “BJP has launched four-pronged attack on the country, and forthcoming elections will be BJP’s Waterloo in their blitzkrieg of victories,” the CPM leader said.
 
 
