NEW DELHI: There is a big financial crunch in  , which has five major hospitals under its jurisdiction. It does, of course, spend at least Rs 450 crore every year on the hospitals, except that 90% of the amount goes into paying staff salaries. In the past three months, when even employees haven’t been given their salaries, it is easy to understand why today the hospital complexes have stray dogs and monkeys in places occupied by patients.

  
  
 
 NDMC’s five big hospitals are Hindu Rao (Malka Ganj), Kasturba Gandhi (Daryaganj), Balak Ram ( ), Girdhari Lal (Ajmeri Gate) and Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine & Tuberculosis (GTB Nagar). These are major institutions — Hindu Rao is the biggest of the multispeciality centres, while Kasturba logs the most number of child deliveries annually — but neglect and mismanagement are evident on the campuses.
  
 Despite the north corporation employing around 900 sanitation workers for these hospitals, the conditions there are nowhere close to the standards required of a health facility. “Earlier, there was no problem in maintaining these facilities, but after the Municipal Corporation of Delhi was trifurcated in 2012, these hospitals fell into our jurisdiction. Our expenses increased, but our source of income has remained the same,” said a senior corporation official.
  
  
 In the absence of adequate funds, the hospitals are struggling with a staff shortage. At Kasturba Gandhi, for instance, there are only five gynaecologists against the 13 provided for. The situation is similar in other hospitals. Doctors there claimed that many of their colleagues have left due to inconsistent payment of salaries. “There is an urgent need of doctors, but the delay in salaries deters many, while some quit a few months after recruitment,” confided a doctor at Hindu Rao.
 
 Change has been slow too. While Rajan Babu, which has 1,153 beds, remains empty most of the time because cases of tuberculosis, the specialty at the hospital, has come down rapidly, the upgradation of Balak Ram in Tughlakabad from 100 beds to 200 has remained on paper. “We are planning to upgrade Rajan Babu into a multi-speciality hospital from being just a tuberculosis care centre since just 300-350 beds are occupied at any one time,” said a senior civic official. But such plans haven’t taken off either in the case of Rajan Babu or at Balak Ram. The plans to merge the north body’s hospitals to cut down on expenses and to hand over Balak Ram to Delhi government too haven’t worked out. The civic body can hand over the hospitals to the state government during financial stress, but as officials claimed, only the deliberative wing of the corporation can take such decisions.
 
 “We are trying to increase our revenue collection, but it is going to take some time,” admitted a corporation official.
 
 The north corporation can only hope that fourth Delhi   report is implemented by Delhi government. Under the report, which was to have been implemented in 2012, the north civic body is assured of an additional Rs 1,000 crore a year. “This amount could resolve the problems created by the fund crunch,” pointed out the official.
 
