HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad’s decision to bar student organizations from the   process was strongly opposed by the students’ union as it argued that new students would not have any window to get their issues resolved with the administration.

 In the executive council meeting held on February 21, members took a decision on the role of student organizations in the admission process.
 
 
 “Considering the recommendations of the proctorial board and the logistic arrangements being made by the controller of examinations, the council resolved that the role of student organizations be totally barred (sic) from the venue of admissions and the controller of examinations office till the closure of admissions to ensure smooth conduct of admissions,” read the   minutes of meeting.
 
 The EC said that help desks set up by the controller of examinations will alone be permitted to support new students. Apart from this, a grievance redressal committee will be available everyday during admissions to look into grievances of new students.
 
 The decision drew flak from the students’ union which accused the administration of carrying out an ‘antistudent’ move. “By banning this (student organisations), the administration will only make the process difficult for students, especially those from marginalized sections. Most of the students would be unaware of the process, and would be new to a university set-up. Therefore, not having proper assistance would make the entire process extremely difficult,” read a statement issued by the students’ union on Tuesday.
 
 It further condemned the EC’s decision to devise guidelines on social media usage for UoH students. “The administration is trying to curb the voices of students. This cannot be accepted by UoH community at any cost. The students’ union opposes these decisions, and demands immediate revocation,” read the statement.
 
 Vinod Pavarala, spokesperson of UoH responded, “For a long time students and parents have been complaining of the admission process being disrupted by various student organisations. UoH is willing to create space, somewhere away from the admission process, for the student organisations, and only after it concludes.”
 
