NEW DELHI: The multi-agency probe into the Rs 11,300 crore   swindle widened on Sunday with the   (ED) raiding 45 more premises in 15 cities linked to diamantaire  , his business partner   and others even as investigators started looking into around 200 shell companies and 'benami' assets.

 
 The   is independently scrutinising assets and investments of PNB officials, including   and Manoj Kharat to find out the "quid pro quo" in issuing Letters of Undertaking favouring payments to Nirav's companies. CBI sources said they were questioning 11 PNB officials, including a few general managers aparet from Shetty and Kharat.
 
 Officials said Shetty and Kharat wouldn't have done the favours for free, so details of money spent by them and their family members on property/investments in the last five-six years were being looked into.
 
 The CBI is also looking into the balance sheets of 18 Indian subsidiaries of Choksi-run Gitanjali group to understand the money trail of funds taken from PNB and other banks.
 
 The ED raids continued across the country for the fourth day on Sunday and the agency seized diamonds and gold worth Rs 20 crore. It is also moving to attach at least two dozen immovable properties under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).
 
 The ED raided 10 places in Bengaluru, seven in Delhi, five each in Kolkata and Mumbai, four each in Chandigarh and Hyderabad, three each in Patna and Lucknow, two in Ahmedabad and one each in Chennai and Guwahati. It also conducted raids in Goa, Jaipur, Srinagar and Jalandhar. The agency seized diamonds and jewellery worth Rs 10 crore in Jaipur, about Rs 5 crore in Hyderabad, Rs 1.27 crore in Ranchi and Rs 1 crore in Patna.
 
 It is suspected that Nirav and Choksi floated around 200 shell companies in India and abroad to launder money and create 'benami' assets in the form of land, gold and precious stones. The ED and the income tax department have formed special teams to investigate the case, sources said.
 
 CBI officials said they were scrutinising thousands of documents and several hard disks to ascertain the modus operandi, frequency of payments and if more LoUs and Foreign Letters of Credit (FLCs) were issued to companied linked to Nirav and Choksi.
 
