

 
 
 We did a two-part series on how Silicon Valley technology was disrupting politics and economics last year. We even came to Hyderabad to see how cab drivers were affected by Uber. We were particularly interested in social media and micro-targeting being used in elections and the role it plays in democracy. We got inside Donald Trump’s campaign team, and showed that Facebook was working with the Republican Party and Cambridge Analytica in the same office — but the funny thing is, at the time, it didn’t make headlines. Why now? Sometimes stories just catch the wave of our times. It reflects deeper concerns people have about who’s got their data.
 
 
 
 Of course data has always been collected and used. Political parties have always done it —   did it,   did it. But now, it’s a combination of things that’s causing the fear. Data scraping is getting better, we are sharing more data, we see more stories about data being hacked, stolen, and sold on the dark net. Then it emerges that all this data is not only being used to sell you holidays but for political parties, especially for   who’s the big baddie. These things together have woken up people who were perhaps naïve before.
 
  
 
 Advertising is a huge industry with billions of dollars so yes, political advertising and campaigning has always been ahead. You have to separate the campaign from the politician. A politician can be very rubbish at using social media but have a team that is brilliant at understanding social media advertising. Social media has shaped the politicians we have elected. Politicians who are good at sharing simple, catchy, emotional messages — advertising, after all, plays on emotion — have benefitted disproportionately from this new medium. But politicians in the UK are also confused. They see a story trending or get 100,000 signatures on a petition but they can’t work out whether that’s what their constituents care about or whether it’s fake.
 
 
 
 Yes, and that’s partly because you have different teams. Campaign teams have one goal of getting the candidate to win. Governments are slow and physical. Democracies have a set of rules and institutions that were created in a different time and they’re struggling to keep up. For instance, our police forces are organised around physical, geographical institutions while most crime is now cybercrime that’s international in nature. The government needs to change because artificial intelligence (AI) and technology can help, and we don’t want to lose these advances over fears about data security.
 
 
 
 Citizens have to be very conscious that every click and share, and every service they use is a political choice. We are all culpable and complicit in building these big data machines. If we want social media to be more than endless targeting and data extraction, it’s going to cost citizens. We have to move away from ad-supported models. We will have to trade convenience for something more sustainable. Government has to change how it approaches law and order, regulate big tech firms, break up monopolies, and put more laws in place on data sharing and advertising. If governments invest in AI and you had, say, publicly owned versions of Uber, where the profits were shared by the drivers, there would be more accountability. It’s a case of politics and law harnessing technology rather than just letting it rip. Yet we don’t want to cramp innovation and fall behind in the great arms race that is AI. This is what the challenge is.
 
