NEW DELHI: The India Meteorological Department’s forecast of a normal monsoon in northwest India will bring cheer to the crucial agricultural region, where rainfall has been below-par for four years in a row. If the forecast holds, northwest India is in for its first no-deficit monsoon since 2013.

 
 In its region-wise monsoon forecast released on Wednesday,   predicted 100% seasonal rainfall in northwest India, a region comprising J&K, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. In meteorological terms, 100% corresponds to rains that are exactly normal.
 
 Being farthest from the seas, northwest India is at the tail end of the monsoon system, which arrives here after traversing the rest of the sub-continent. That’s why the normal monsoon season rainfall here is 615mm, way lower than the country’s normal of 887mm for the June-September period.
 
 
  
 
 In recent years, however, monsoon in the northwest has been mostly below normal. Since 2012, the region received an above-normal monsoon only in 2013, a year that brought disasters of a different kind — cloudbursts and flash-floods in parts of Uttarakhand.
 
 It is said, when monsoon fails in India, it fails spectacularly in the northwest. The drought years of 2014 and 2015 saw gaping monsoon deficits of 21% and 17%, respectively, in the region. Even last year, when the country had a near-normal monsoon, northwest India ended up with a rain shortfall of 10%.
 
 The failing rainfall in recent years has not seriously impacted agricultural output in the region. That’s because farmers still have access to water due to perennial rivers, a good irrigation network and groundwater. However, deficient rainfall takes a big toll on the region’s scarce groundwater resources, which have anyway been depleting at an alarming rate.
 
 Large parts of northwest India fall in the zone that has among the highest rates of groundwater extraction in the world. A bad monsoon puts further stress on this resource while adding to the inputs costs of farmers.
 
 Further, poor winter rainfall in the region this year, particularly in the western Himalayas, has led to reduced levels in north India’s perennial rivers and other water sources. Timely arrival of monsoon and good rains will thereafter will go a long way in alleviating water stress on all fronts.
 
 
