PUNE: The city recorded a marginal 3% drop in overall crimes in 2017, barring incidences of vehicle theft, molestation and drug peddling, as compared to 2016. However,   complaints and economic offences registered an almost three- and four-fold increase respectively.

 Serious crimes like murder, robbery and chainsnatching, among others, continued to show a declining trend over the four years since 2014. In fact, chainsnatchings dropped from a high of 512 cases in 2014 to under 100 cases in 2017.
 
 While the crime detection rate went up by almost 100%, the conviction rate dropped noticeably for serious crimes as well as offences under special enactments.
 
 “Our efforts are on to increase the conviction rate,” police commissioner   said while releasing Pune’s annual crime statistics for 2017 on Friday. She attributed the drop in overall crimes to better investigation and detection of cases and preventive action under stringent laws such as MCOCA and MPDA against organised criminal gangs besides externment of criminals on police records. “2017 was a year of detection, good investigation and preventive action,” she said.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 However, the police had no figures for the city’s crime rate in terms of incidences per one lakh population. A recent report by the   (NCRB) had put Pune’s crime rate at 387.2 per one lakh population for 2016. The city police is not known for calculating the annual crime rate.
 
 Shukla said, “The city’s population has grown to nearly 70 lakh while our manpower is close to 12,000 personnel. Proposals regarding the setting up of a PCMC police commissioner’s office and new police stations, including a cyber police station, are pending with the state government.”
 
 Former director general of police Meeran Chadha Borwankar said, “The leadership and citizens should not go by crime statistics. Satisfaction of citizens by rendering services is important. At the same time, henious or serious offences show the real picture of crime in a city. By stressing on crime statistics, we are creating an impediment in the free registration of crimes. I strongly disbelieve that crime against women is showing a downward trend. Women in the state are aware and educated. They should come forward and lodge FIRs in matters such as molestation or rape.”
 
 Former additional director general of police   said, “Cyber crimes will continue to rise. More and more educated people are falling victim to such crimes. In most cases, cyber fraudsters operate from other states and even abroad. The conviction rate in cyber crimes is not satisfactory. Cyber criminals are well versed with loopholes in the enactments governing cyber space.”
 
