After ' ',   will be back on the silver screen as an honest IT officer in ' ', a film based on the real life story of an   from Lucknow, who had raided the house of businessman   in   and recovered assets worth Rs1.6 crore in cash and gold. The actor says that he was surprised by the 'brutal honesty' of the officer. "When you see the film, you will realise that there are people in the country who are doing so much and are so honest and we don’t even know about them. We talk about freedom fighters and other people and we never hear about some unsung heroes. While doing the film, I was thinking, 'How can one be so brutally honest that he/she can risk his/her life and their family's life for the country'. The fact that the story we are portraying is true amazes me the most. What I also realized after doing the film is that corruption has changed from the '80s till now. Earlier, I think, it was blatantly done and no one could do anything about it. Now, thanks to the media and social media, people are more aware and careful. There are more number of scams that come to light, so corruption is there, but it is very open now," says Ajay. 

  
  
 
 The actor, who was in Delhi to promote the film, says that since the film is based on a true story, there was a lot of research material and other references available, which helped them during its making. "My research was meeting the man himself on whose life the film is based. I was clear about my character in the film. We have only followed the facts that are available to us in the story, and that made our job a lot easier. A lot of people from the IT department have heard about the film and they are waiting to watch it. They are happy that the film is made," says Ajay, who shot for the film in Lucknow.He adds, "We were shooting at a palace which was two hours away from the city and we didn't have to do much to recreate the era of '80s, it was the perfect location and it hasn’t changed much over the years."
 
  
  Ajay Devgn
 
  The actor has often been asked about making a comeback with   in films and he's replied that he "hasn't gotten the time to work on a script that would be fit for both of us." He says, "It is very difficult to get that idea. To have both of us in a film, you need a very different script, that is what even Kajol feels. We are waiting for the right script."
 
  
  
  
  
 
