CHENNAI: After shutting the door on rebels and making it clear in the just-concluded assembly session that there was no room for a reconciliation with dissident leader T T V Dhinakaran, chief minister   and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam have now set their eyes on launching the party’s media wing, a channel and a newspaper, to propagate the achievements of the government. The   government feels it is not getting “due attention” from the media. 

 The party-sponsored television channel is likely to be launched on April 14, Tamil New year day. Sources say the newspaper is all set to be unveiled on former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s birthday that falls on February 24. This would be a landmark event for the unified party, given the turbulent days of split and merger. 
 
 Party sources say that Palaniswami is upset that in recent weeks Dhinakaran has been getting more media space. “He could not enter the party headquarters nor Poes Garden for a decade, after Amma expelled him. We get two minutes on channels, whereas he gets 40 minutes. What is the meaning of this?” the visibly upset chief minister asked while talking to reporters in Salem.
 
 The chief minister and his colleagues had been planning a media house of their own to counter rival Dhinakaran, whose family controls Namadhu MGR and   TV. The talk is that Marudhu Alaguraj, the former editor of Namadhu MGR, who was sacked for writing critical pieces on  , will head the new daily, touted as a political broadsheet. As many as 56 staff members fired by   family in December are likely to find place in Namadhu Amma. 
 
 Alaguraj said the “party organ would act like a rampart and a weapon to retaliate.” The ruling camp sought to clear rumours that they were submissive to the Centre. Palaniswami is at pains to reiterate in all forums that the party was against the Triple Talaq Bill in its present form. 
 
 AIADMK spokesman Vaigai Selvan said the party was moving with new vigour after the assembly session. “There was a buzz that TTV’s debut in the House would trigger some developments. Neither was there a welcome for him nor wishes. There were no ‘sleeper cells’ as claimed by TTV. We learned our lessons in R K Nagar and we will face local body polls,” the former minister said. 
 
 With Madras high court yet to decide on a batch of petitions, including the disqualification of 18 MLAs, the ruling camp is comfortable for now.
 
 
