Mysuru: After having bagged the ‘Cleanest Medium City’ tag, efforts are now under way to ramp up Mysuru’s reputation as a ‘Heritage City’. In a bid to enhance the visual appeal of the city’s many thoroughfares, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has decided to increase the number of ornamental lamp posts.

 MCC, which is currently in the process of widening some of the major roads in the city and turn them into double roads to ensure smooth flow of traffic, is installing   at some of major junctions – the   are in keeping with the many regal structures that dot the Mysuru cityscape.
 
 These lampposts, which currently adorn arterial roads such as Dhanvantri Road, Sayyaji Rao Road, Vishwamanava Double Road, among others, have added to the allure of the city, besides turning into minor attractions in their own right.
 
 Gilded with bronze, the lampposts, with their slightly antique design, almost seem to hearken back to the halcyon past of Mysuru. On an experimental basis, the lampposts were installed on Dhanavantri Road. With public expressing its appreciation for these intricately designed posts, MCC decided to install them at other major junctions.
 
 MCC executive engineer (electrical) Lakshman Gowda told TOI, “Heritage lampposts are more expensive compared to the ordinary streetlights. Although they enhance Mysuru’s appeal as a ‘Heritage City’, they are often overshadowed by streetlights on the roads. Instead of installing these lampposts, they should be put up at major junctions.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, MCC Executive Engineer (Electrical) Lakshman Gowda stated that the heritage lampposts are pricey in comparison with other street lights.
 
 Gowda said that corporators would urge the civic body to install the lampposts on all roads and major junctions across the city. “But there has been a slight dip in the demand. MCC can install mores streetlights at the cost of one heritage lamppost,” he added.
 
 Noted historian Eechanuru Kumar pointed out that sliver-gilded lampposts had adorned the city’s streets during the reign of the Maharajas. “You can still see them at Mysuru Palace. Although the new ornamental lampposts have a heritage look, MCC can think of changing their colour. Chandeliers are a symbol of heritage,” Kumar told TOI.
 
 KG Koppal resident Jerusha lauded the MCC for installing the ornamental lampposts at major junctions. “It’s a matter of pride that the MCC is keen on conservation,” Jerusha added.
 
 
