PATNA: The state tourism department is at work to identify around 900 tourism sites for their development as tourist attractions.

 “We will prepare a road map for the purpose by the end of May,” an official said earlier this week and added the road map would detail a plan for development of well-known as well as not-so-well-known tourism sites. It will have details of the sites, their significance and measures to attract tourists.
 
 According to state tourism director Ashok Kumar Singh, while around 600 sites have been short-listed, 300 others have been suggested by different stakeholders for their inclusion in the road map.
 
 Sources said the DMs were earlier asked to identify tourism sites under their jurisdiction for their developments as potential tourist attractions. Legislators have also given their suggestions in this regard.
 
 A presentation on the proposed road map is likely to be made before CM Nitish Kumar. After his in- principle nod , it may be tabled before the state cabinet for the final approval.
 
 Officials said the sites finding a mention on the road map would be divided into different circuits, including Buddhist, Sufi, Ramayana, Jain, Gandhi and eco circuits.
 
 A sum of Rs 44 crore is proposed to be spent on the development of Gandhi circuit sites, which include places linked with Mahatma Gandhi's visits to the state.
 
 Tourism minister Pramod Kumar said work was on to develop a 3.5-acre theme park at Chandrahia in East Champaran district. The park will also house a large monument where a light and sound show will be held. There will also be a ‘charkha’ room, an auditorium and a museum, he said.
 
 According to the minister, the Gandhi Sangrahalaya will have on display pictures related to Gandhi’s Champaran movement. A cafeteria and a two-room guesthouse will also be there in the park. The department is also planning to install display boards containing details of Champaran movement at 20 other places which were visited by Gandhi. They include Motihari railway station and Pipra Kothi.
 
 The state government is also remodelling the Gandhi Ashram at Bhitiharwa in West Champaran district. “It is an important site as Mahatma Gandhi had stayed here during the Champaran Satyagrah in 1917,” the minister said and added a Gandhi Dwar would be erected at the entry point of Motihari on the national highway.
 
 
