MUMBAI: The state consumer commission has said that promises made by a builder in an advertisement or sales brochure have to be fulfilled. The commission made the observations in a recent ruling against   who in its advertisement for sale of a housing complex at   had promised to provide a ground, garden, water fountain,   cameras, intercom and other amenities to the flat purchasers, but failed make the provisions. 

 The commission dismissed the developer's appeal against a 2015 district forum order. On January 12, 2015, the Thane consumer forum directed the developer to procure the occupation certificate from the Mira Bhayandar Municipal Corporation within 40 days with respect to the complex, which has four wings. The forum also imposed a daily penalty of Rs 100 on the developer from February 15, 2015, until the OC was obtained and handed over to the society. Further, the developer was also told to provide the amenities, including the common garden, fountain and CCTV cameras as promised within three months from the date of order, failing which a penalty would be imposed at the rate of Rs 200 daily until compliance. 
  
 
 The developer was also directed to convey the land and building in the name of the society, failing which a further daily penalty of Rs 200 would be payable to the society from March 2015. Additionally, the commission directed the developer to pay a compensation of Rs two lakh to the housing society for its failure to procure the OC and provide the common amenities. Aggrieved, the developer moved the Maharashtra State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in 2015. The developer contended that the district forum order was contrary to the sale agreement as there was no promise in that document to provide such amenities.  , represented by advocate   in the commission, pointed out that the flat purchasers had invested in the property on the basis of promises made in the advertisement. 
 
 The commission pointed out that under the Maharashtra Ownership Flats Act, it is obligatory for the developer to construct the building in accordance with sanctioned plan and then to convey the property in favour of the society so that it, in turn, can take possession of the amenities promised in the brochure. 
 
 
