PUNE: Parents’ organisations and education activists are protesting against aided first-year junior colleges (FYJC) that are exploiting students by overcharging  . 

 Activists said the state government has not revised the fee structure for 40 years, but junior colleges are charging fees based on their own calculations and many end up exploiting students especially those who opt for subjects like computer science.
 
 A Right to Information (RTI) application filed by activist Vaishali Bafna to the education department about the basis on which junior colleges charged the fees has remained unattended. A hearing with the state information commission is scheduled on May 28. 
 
 Meanwhile, officials at the regional directorate of education (Pune), said instructions are given to colleges every year at the time of FYJC admissions to follow the previous year’s fees’ structure as there is no regulation from the state education department.
 
 Bafna said, “We have been trying to meet the education minister and several political leaders regarding the regularisation of fees for aided junior colleges. Our requests have fallen on deaf ears. Hence, I filed an RTI where I questioned the deputy director of education regarding the circular he issued in February 2017 stating that fees should be charged based on the previous year. My RTI questions the deputy director on what basis he issued this circular and was there any direction from the government to issue such a circular or any fee committee was set up to take this decision.”
 
 The application has been sent from one department to another and one officer to another and yet she did not receive any answer. Hence, she had to approach the state information commission on the matter which has scheduled a hearing on May 28.
 
 The law, on the basis of which fees of aided   is decided, is based on Bombay Primary Act 1947 and rules 1949. The fee structure was revised in 1977 after which there has been no revision.
 
 Rajendra Dharankar, member of the System Correcting Movement (SYSCOM), said, “It is sad that the colleges receiving aid from the government are harassing parents by overcharging fees. Some are charging money for development, while others under laboratory, computer or other heads. We have even submitted a report regarding the fee regulation but there has been no action from the government.”
 
 When contacted, assistant deputy director of education  , she said, “For aided division in colleges, fees are charged as per government directives. Unless we receive a direction from the government we cannot instruct junior colleges on changes in the fees structure and hence we tell them to refer to previous year's structure and charge accordingly.”
 
 
