Nagpur: Wednesday was a testing day for CBSE Std XII students as the mathematics paper turned out to be quite tiresome. The crucial paper was an exhaustive affair for the students.

 Experts, however, believed that since all the questions were included in the prescribed NCERT textbook, students will score exceedingly well. Sachin Gaikwad, a math teacher at Jain International School, said, “Almost 80% of the questions were covered from the exercises given in the textbook. I am pleased that the pattern was followed. Even an average student can score full marks. It was a paper set to make scoring easier.”
 
 Students were equally exuberant although a little tired from the lengthy paper. Student Karan Tandekar said, “The paper was easy as compared to the last few years. Vectors and 3D portion of paper were the easiest and binary questions were a challenge for me, but I somehow managed to complete it on time.”
 
 Lulua Master found the paper to be moderately difficult but lengthy. “The matrices part was easy as most of the questions were repeated. Section A was tough for me and I struggled to finish the paper on time.” Another student Dyandip Manwar said, “For me, the paper was quite tough as Section A and C were time consuming. Calculations took up most of my time.”
 
 Mathematics is said to be a subject of practice and today’s’paper proved the words to be accurate, said Gaikwad. “Calculus must have been the only tough part for students. But those who had practised well by solving previous years’ question papers would excel as time management was the only key to cracking the paper,” he added. 
 
 Palak Pradhan also felt the time crunch while writing her paper. “It was moderately difficult but quite lengthy. Matrics was the easiest part and 3D questions were tricky and confusing for me.” 
 
 Sakshi Pusdeka said, “It was quite lengthy and time management was required. However, it was expected that the paper would be exhaustive. Overall, I think I would score glorious marks as all the questions were known to me.”
 
 Shamal Dhawale said, “The paper was easy but lengthy. 3D questions were quite tricky and some students got confused while solving. Section A and C were tough and I faced difficulties in managing my time.”
 
 Paper rating
 
 Toughness: Easy
 
 Questions’ relevance: Straightforward
 
 Length: Lengthy
 
 
