MUMBAI: Days after a 84-year-old farmer ended his life in  , state tourism minister   filed a criminal complaint against NCP spokesperson   for defamation.

 However, the NCP on Tuesday demanded a judicial probe into the episode.   said since it appears that Jaykumar Rawal and energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule were allegedly responsible for the death of Dharma  , the CM should sack them and then order a judicial probe under the Commission of Inquiry Act. Dharma Patil, whose land was acquired for a solar power project in Dhule district, was demanding higher compensation. While he was paid Rs 4 lakh, his neighbours got payouts ranging between Rs 1 crore to Rs 2 crore.
 
 “I have a letter written by Patil to the CM, Rawal, Bawankule on December 4, 2017, saying, if compensation for his land acquired for the power project is not revised, he would commit suicide. In that event, all ministers and government officers will be responsible for his death. Patil’s letter was ignored by the administration,” Malik said.
 
 Launching an attack on Rawal, Malik said official records showed that Rawal purchased prime plots in the vicinity of the project after a final notification for acquisition was issued by the land acquisition officer.
 
 Under Section 12 of the Maharashtra Project Affected Persons Rehabilitation Act, 1999, transfer or purchase of land is prohibited, but despite such a provision, plots were transferred in Rawal’s name. The documents released by Malik showed that Rawal purchased 1.76 hectares land for a nominal rate.
 
 The complaint lodged by Rawal at the Dondaicha police station in Dhule district stated that the statements made by Malik on Monday caused massive damage to his reputation. “Although I was not involved in the land acquisition process, false allegations were made against me. After Patil committed suicide, Malik has been making attempts to defame me,’’ Rawal said.
 
 “I was described as a land mafia, I was accused of grabbing the land of former President Pratibha Patil. Under such circumstances, Malik should be booked for defamation under Section 499 of the IPC,” he added.
 
 Dhule BJP legislator Anil   waded into the controversy, stated that   should order a probe into all land transactions for the solar power plant in Vikhran village in Sindhkheda in Dhule district. “If the transactions are probed, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis will uncover the real land mafia in Dhule district,” Gote said.
 
 Gote said that after Patil served a notice to the government, he had many meetings with Rawal for payment of revised compensation, but his pleas were deliberately ignored.
 
