LUDHIANA: The students of the district have reasons to cheer. The results for the Common Admission Test ( ) were declared on Monday and more than 20 students have scored above 90 percentile in the entrance examination. 

 Prerna Singla, a student of BCom second year of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, has made Ludhiana proud. She has scored 99.73 percentile in CAT. She has become the highest scorer among all the students who have appeared for the examination from Ludhiana. Conducted by the   (IIM), the CAT score helps the students to get admission to various management institutes.
 
 An elated Prerna said, “It is a wonderful feeling that I have achieved the maximum percentile among the all students from the district. It was not an easy task to achieve 99.73 percentile. I have studied more than 8 hours every day. However, I did take small breaks in between the daily study schedule to keep the mind and body fresh.”
 
 Prerna thanked her parents for the constant support and said they are the ‘real hero’ in her life. “I want to take admission in one of the best management institutes of the country. I want to establish my own business company and provide employment to the youth of the country,” she said.
 
 Another student,  , a resident of BRS Nagar has secured 99.43 percentile and became the second highest scorer from the district.
 
 “More than one lakh students had appeared for CAT. But hard work never disappoints and I am the second highest scorer in CAT from my district,” said Arpit.
 
 “My mantra for success was to remain focus. I never let negative thoughts cross my mind,” said Arpit.
 
 He also said that he used to wake up early morning to study. “The hours spent studying in the morning had played an important role. I woke up daily at around 4 am and studied till 10 am,” he said. 
 
 Danish Kapoor secured 99.34 percentile, thus becoming the third highest scorer from the district. Dinesh, a student of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, said, “Despite facing health issues I have performed well. This is because of the constant support of my family. They provided me with everything, which kept my moral high throughout this journey.”
 
 According to Dinesh, self-study is as important as taking coaching from private institutions. “I used to take coaching classes but I made sure I studied daily for four to five hours to secure best results in CAT,” he said.
 
