Porvorim: Traffic police have removed the barricades at the O’Coqueiro   to allow vehicular traffic from Torda to proceed towards the Chogm road.

 As traffic police had barricaded the Torda-Chogm route access at the junction, traffic movement increased through the nearby Defence Colony drawing protest from its residents. 
 
 The opening up of the barricades at O Coqueiro junction will be on trial for a month, said sources.
 
 The police acted on the request by revenue minister and   MLA Rohan Khaunte, who inspected the junction at Alto Porvorim along with DySP ( traffic) Dharmesh Angle, PWD assistant engineer (roads) Eduardo Pereira, Salvador do Mundo sarpanch Sandeep Salgaonkar, Socorro sarpanch  , brigadier (retd) Neves Braganza of defence colony and others. The team also inspected the movement of the traffic at the crossroads near the Holy Family Church at Alto Porvorim.
 
 Speaking to reporters, Khaunte said “Due to these barricades, vehicles move towards Holy Family Church via Defence Colony road and then proceed towards Saligao, Sangolda and Mapusa. Due to this, traffic has increased on Defence Colony’s roads, resulting in traffic congestion along Kadamba Depot road.”
 
 Khaunte said that he requested traffic police to remove the barricades on a trial basis for one month. “If this arrangement is satisfactory, it may be allowed to work for another month,” he said.
 
 He also brought it to the notice of traffic police that vehicles parked by the side of the Kadamba depot road near   and opposite Holy Family Church were obstructing vehicular traffic from exiting the highway after crossing the traffic signal.
 
 He further advised the traffic police to declare the area of Kadamba depot road near Federal Bank as a ‘no parking zone’. Speaking to TOI, Socorro sarpanch Vazarkar said that it was a long-pending demand by the defence personnel that the barricades near O’Coqueiro junction be removed immediately so as to allow the free movement of traffic from Torda towards the Chogm road.
 
 
