Nagpur: Under fire from authorities over various issues, coaching institutes in Nagpur have joined hands under the banner of newly formed organization   ( ). 
 
 The association hopes that through a common platform, it will be able to work with authorities and resolve all the issues. Recently, coaching institutes came under the radar of the traffic cops and civic body over parking space and there were talks to shut them down for lack of parking infrastructure. 
  
 However, ACI, feels that the implementation of parking rule should be done in a uniform manner. Sarang Upganlawar, president of ACI, said, “We completely agree that   should be followed, but it must be applicable to everyone. Be it hospitals, restaurants, shops or coaching institutes. Everyone must be judged by the same yardstick.” 
  
 Other ACI members members strongly felt that being ‘soft targets’, the ire of authorities was falling on them.  , treasurer of ACI, said, “If you just look at  , there is no parking space available for any commercial establishment, yet they are all functioning. ACI wants that all rules should be applicable to us in the manner that they are being applied to others.” 
  
 The city police, however, allayed fears saying that the law was same for everyone. City commissioner of police K Venkatesham, said, “All are same (for law). We want to address the issue of artificial traffic congestion in the city and make the roads safer for all our youngsters.” 
  
 Another concern for coaching institutes is a draft bill that aims to regulate them. Sameer Phale, treasurer of ACI, said, “Every single member of ACI wants to be regulated because this bill will make turn us into an organized sector from an unorganized one. But the points mentioned in the draft have been put forth without taking inputs from stakeholders.” 
  
 “I pay 30% income tax, then 18% GST, so why the burden of 5% extra? Under which law?” asked Phale. 
  
 ACI said they are also committed to corporate social responsibility and will provide fee concessions or waivers to economically poor and academically deserving students. 
  
  
