While football lovers of the world are excited about the FIFA World Cup 2018, to be held in June, Patnaites seem to be a bit non-enthusiastic. The recently held 7th All   for   Cup witnessed only a handful of audience at the stadium.

 
 Least-interested audiences
 The first tournament was held in 2011 to celebrate 100 years of Bihar’s existence on the map and to revive sports in Patna. However, over the last few years, the initial enthusiasm towards sports subsided, which was evident from the empty stadium at the recently held football tournament at Patliputra Sports Complex. Sajith Kumar, coach of  , said, “It was a great experience in Patna. Had there been enough audience to encourage the players, we would have felt much better.” Sharing similar views,  , an organiser of the event, said, “This time there was no team from Bihar. The empty stadium added to the woe. Initially, we had good team. But this time, we couldn’t get players to represent our state.”
 
 Unhappy Participants
 The participants lost enthusiasm when they realised that there was no audience to cheer them up. Enock, the captain of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Mumbai, said, “This is my second visit to Patna and I was surprised to learn that the home team was not participating. We enjoy playing the match wherever we go and it’s the audience we look up to for appreciation when we give our best shots. This year, we missed the spirit and liveliness of Patnaites. Even though the entry was free, there was no crowd.”
 
 Lack of awareness
 Apparently, most people were unware of the tournament happening in the city. The sports authority did not focus much on publicity. The arrangements were not up to the mark on the ground. There were no scoreboards to figure out points of the game. “Government takes no initiative to boost football in Bihar. There are hardly a proper football field in Bihar. Most of the fields are used for cricket practices. The pitch also is not maintained. The field that you can see now is maintained because of our initiative.”
 
  FIFA
 Though there are hardly any taker for matches held in the city, there are many football enthusiasts who are planning to be in Russia during FIFA. Nilanjan Chatterjee, a lawyer and a big fan of Argentina football team, said, “Football is my passion. But I never attempted to watch football in the city because Patna never did anything grand — neither for the players nor for the audience. Also, the crowd here is too rowdy and that spoils our interest in the game. So, my friends and I have planned to watch FIFA live in Russia this June.”
 
 - Swati.Savarn@timesgroup.com and Alisha Shireen
 
