JAIPUR: Agriculture department’s attempt to make   has aroused hopes for cancer patients leading a painful life.

 After a report issued by Vidyasagar University, Midnapore, West Bangal pointed out that   fruit contains triterpenic acids (0.6% in a white crystalline solid), the   has decided to invite health experts including oncologists, pharma companies and agriculture experts to come together under one roof to formulate how triterpenic acid in olive changes the life of cancer patients. 
 
 “Triterpenic acid is useful in treatment of cancer. Department of Chemistry and Chemical Technology of Vidyasagar University has shown that olive has tritrepenic, which is helpful in treatment of cancer patients. We will invite oncologists, agriculture experts and pharma companies to find out ways how tritrepenic in olive after extraction can be used as an anti-cancer drug,” said Prabhu Lal Saini, minister of agriculture. 
 
 The research was conducted on extraction of tritrepenoids from leaves and fruits with the help of Vidyasagar University, West Bengal. 
 
 Agriculture department pointed out that there are researches all over the world, which shows that tritrepenoids are useful in cancer treatment. The department claimed that nowhere in the world, tritrepenoids are extracted from olive. It is the state’s attempt to extract tritrepenoids from olive leaves and fruits. 
 
 The agriculture department believes that tritrepenoids in olive is useful as preventive and treatment medicine for different kinds of cancers and different ailments such as HIV as it is analgesic and anti-nociceptive, Hepato-protective, anti-oxidant and anti-bacterial. 
 
 So far, the agriculture department has extracted 12 tonnes of oil from olives. 
 
 In Rajasthan, first plant of olive was planted in 2008 with the help of Israel. It was planted at Dhindhol farm in Bassi, Jaipur district. “Now, across the state, 5,000 hectare of land has been developed for olive farming which has started producing fruits and leaves,” he said. 
 
 As of now, the state is cultivating seven different varieties of olive. In past 10 years, Rajasthan has become a state which is not only cultivating olives but also is helping other states of the country to grow olives as it has numerous health benefits. So far, Rajasthan has supplied plants to 17 states of the country for farming of olives. Besides, the state has also supplied 17,000 olive plants to Nepal. Agriculture department claimed that olive has a chemical which fights against cancer. 
 
 The agriculture department is also producing tea from olive leaves. Now, it is planning to export tea prepared from olive leaves to other countries including the UK and the USA. But the department has decided not to export 50% of the total production as it should be made available to people of the country as it has immense health benefits. 
 
 
