PATNA: Sunny days notwithstanding, the   (IMD) on Saturday issued warning for dense fog along with cold day conditions at a few places in the state till January 31.

 Though meteorologists said fog cover would slowly disappear from January 31 onwards, they are keeping a close watch on a western disturbance, which is expected to cause widespread rain and snowfall in Jammu and Kashmir and adjoining Himachal Pradesh from January 29 to 31.
 
 In its all-India bulletin issued on Saturday, IMD stated that dense to very dense fog and cold day conditions would continue over northern plains for the next two-three days.
 
 Scientists at   said the mercury started plummeting slightly in parts of the state from Friday due to rainfall in Uttarakhand under the influence of a western disturbance. Western disturbances are low pressure areas or extra tropical storms originating from Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause winter snow or rainfalls in northwest Indian subcontinent.
 
 Though showers did not occur anywhere in the state, it led to revival of foggy conditions as dry and   redirected the thick blanket of fog from northwest India to east Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
 
 Weather conditions, especially in terms of fog, had significantly improved in the region over the past few days. The cold wave as well as cold day conditions also subsided from the region. However, the reoccurrence of foggy conditions led to plunge in temperature at many places in the region.
 
 Minimum temperature in Patna on Saturday was recorded at 7.7 degrees C, three  . Gaya was the coldest place in the state on Saturday with a minimum temperature of 7 degrees C.
 
 Private weather agency Skymet, however, forecast on Saturday that intensity of fog will again lessen over Uttar Pradesh and Bihar during the next 48 hours as north- westerly winds are strengthening. “The maximum portion of the region will witness shallow to moderate fog, while isolated chunks are likely to observe dense fog,” the Skymet report stated.
 
 
