For adventure junkies, the inevitable drill of a 9 to 5 desk job is far from exciting. And it is precisely this insatiable quench for an adrenaline rush that got four professionals from top-notch MNCs — Arun Varma, Antony R. Julian, Amitoj Singh and Subhash Arora — to embark on a journey from Delhi to Mumbai that spanned across six days. And how did they achieve this feat? On their bicycles.

  Ask IT consultant Amitoj Singh, 29, what prompted him to go on this trip and he says, “I wanted to do a four-figure ride and this dream was leaving me sleepless almost every other night. Relief came in when a bunch of like-minded co-riders showed interest and joined me on this journey across five states (Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra) from the nation’s capital to the financial capital.”
 
  For IT professional Arun Varma, 50, an ‘endurance ride’ was more than just hitting higher numbers on his cycle; it was a tool for self-evaluation and escapade. “I have been postponing the calling to do an extreme endurance ride for a while now. However, the possibility of doing a Delhi-Mumbai ride was inspiring enough to take it on. This challenges the limits of your mental and physical endurance. It’s a great way to detox for the high-stress city/work life we live.”
 
  
 
 
  It was on one of their short; intra-city rides in June last year that the gang hit upon the idea of embarking on a Delhi-to-Mumbai, and the rest, as they say, is history. “While the idea was conceived in June, we started chalking out a proper plan from July. There was no looking back since,” shares Singh, adding that he would get reactions like: 
 
 
  On the morning of December 15, the cyclists braved Delhi’s freezing temperature and marked the beginning of their journey from outside  .
 
  
 
 
  “Preparation and planning, team work, persistence, mental strength and managing against adversity… the list is long (of things that we learnt on the trip). The realisation that anything is possible if you put your mind to it, stay focused, plan effectively, don’t get deterred by the odds and stick together as a team is perhaps the best thing that the Delhi-Mumbai cycling trip has done,” says Arun, who started cycling back in 2010.
 
  Antony R. Julian, an advocate, cherishes the memories he made with his ‘boys’. “The best experience was the camaraderie we shared as a team. In fact, we treated the ride as a team ride. All of us were committed to ensure that everyone riding will complete the ride. And that is what we did,” says a nostalgic Antony, others echoing his opinion.
 
  
 
 
  What started as a means to staying fit has taken the form of a full-blown goal in architect Subhash Arora’s life, 51, the oldest member of the group. “My aim is to travel across other states of my country and motivate more people for such pursuits, create awareness and foster a feeling of unity.”
 
  Antony, too, feels the need to explore unexplored territories. “There are always new routes to be conquered for cyclists!” he quips.
 
  Other than the sense of excitement and belonging that this ‘form of exercise’ offers, Amitoj and Arun would also like to make a difference in the lives of the less fortunate ones. “Riding for a cause is something I would like to do now,” signs off Amitoj.
 
