JAIPUR: Improved infrastructure, new attractions and night   gave a fresh impetus to monuments in the Pink City which received record number of tourists last month.

 Amber Fort, the sentinel of the iconic Walled City, remained the pivotal attraction in December with visitors’ numbers growing at a record 28.76% compared to the same period last year.
 
 According to data available with TOI from various state-run monuments,   clearly emerged as the winner attracting 19,15,695 tourists throughout the year with December 31 alone contributing Rs 20,77,090 to the state exchequer receiving 15189 tourists.
 
 Domestic tourists at the fort shot up from 4893 on December 21, 2017 to whopping 13125 on the last day of the year.
 
 “Call it the feel good factor or word of mouth, the security at Amber Fort has won it a lot of appreciation on social media. Besides upgradation of basic facilities, CCTV cameras, electric vehicles and   at the fort our staff have helped many tourists find their lost belongings. Last year, we found and returned a tourist his bag with a lakh of rupees, couriered a tourist his lost wallet by speed-post, and returned a 20 gm   chain to a Swedish tourist. Besides, night tourism has also been an attraction. From the time it was started in February 2015 till December 2017 it saw an increase of 255.28% in footfalls,” said Pankaj Dhirendra, superintendent, Amber Fort.
 
 Buoyant tourist numbers were also witnessed at other monuments with the World Heritage Monument,Jantar Mantar recording a 971.08% increase in revenue and even the basic Hawa Mahal recording a 30.38% increase in December 2017 over the previous year.
 
 While all monuments saw value addition over the last two years in terms of infrastructure and new attractions, Nahargarh Fort that earlier was only known for the restaurant Padav, got a wax museum, sculpture park and a fine-dining restaurant. But where the government lacked was in providing friendly public transport to the secluded fort.
 
 “Government should make a safer route to Nahagarh before opening these galleries,” commented a reader in response to the ‘Sculpture Park’ story.
 
 “These attractions at Nahargarh by the government have led to an increase of 1.50 lakh tourists over the past one year. While security and facilities at the monument are good, what has become our disadvantage is the lack of public transport accessibility. The approach road to the fort is narrow and there are frequent traffic jams on rush days that desists tourists from making that effort. But on December 31, we, like other monuments, for the first time touched 6032 tourists in a single day,” said Krishna Kanta Sharma, superintendent, Nahargarh Fort.
 
 
 
