CHENNAI: Safety of pedestrians and their commuting experience on Theyagaraya Road is expected to improve markedly within the next 12 months as Greater Chennai Corporation kick-started work on the much delayed   pedestrian   project on Monday.

 Minister for municipal administration and water supply S P   laid the ceremonial foundation stone for the Rs 33.8 crore project whose construction will be undertaken in three phases to ensure work quality and minimal traffic disruption. “We expect to finish the project in the next one year,” said Velumani.
 
 The project entails provision of pedestrian-friendly   on the 1.45km stretch of Theyagaraya Road between   and Anna Salai. “The footpath’s design will ensure hassle-free wheel chair passage for the differently-abled and senior citizens. Street furniture, play area, greenery, smart toilets, ornamental street lights, fountains and statues will also be made available,” said a corporation official.
 
 Once the   plaza is set up, only MTC buses and two-wheelers will be allowed to ply between Panagal Park and Thanikachalam Road junction. The   space between Panagal Park and Thanikachalam Road junction is to be reduced to 3.5m on either side. Here, the pedestrian walkway will be 10-12m wide. However, the carriageway for the rest of Theyagaraya Road, will be 7.5m on either side, with the existing footpath increased to 3.5m width, according to a corporation note.
 
 “For the convenience of senior citizens and differently-abled people, a battery-operated shuttle service will be stationed at frequent intervals,” a corporation official added. Velumani remarked that replacing T Nagar’s streetlights with LED bulbs has helped the corporation save on electricity expenses. “We have refitted 1,772 streetlights in T Nagar with LED bulbs. We expect to save at least Rs 95 lakh on bills,” said Velumani.
 
 The minister added that detailed project reports (DPR) on proposals worth Rs 293.26 crore under smart cities mission are under preparation. “These include proposed multilevel car parks on Sivagnanam Road and Utthamar Gandhi Salai. A proposal for integrated traffic management worth Rs 369.92 crore is also in DPR stage,” he said.
 
 
