SURAT: The airlines will continue operations at Surat airport with load penalty as the   (AAI) is yet to submit documents for the commissioning approval of second phase of runway to the   ( ). 

 This has been revealed in a reply to one of the members of ‘We Work for Working Airport’ by DGCA on the   portal. The member sought the reply on the status of DGCA approval for repaired portion of 2,905 metres of runway at Surat airport, whether requisite documentation has been submitted by the airport director at Surat, timeline for the approval and any civil work pending at the airport runway extension etc. 
 
 In its reply, DGCA stated that the AAI has executed the work for extension and strengthening of runway in two phases and submitted documents requesting commissioning approval for phase-I work of the runway extension in April 2017. However, AAI is yet to submit documents for commissioning of phase-II of the project for strengthening of the runway for approval.
 
 At present, the airlines are operating the flights on load penalty as they are unable to use the full-length runway of 2,905 metre. Against the aircraft capacity of 185 passengers, the airlines have to accommodate only 140 passengers due to the load penalty. 
 
 The expansion of 2,905 metre of runway and the 185 metre strengthening work was expected to be over by March 2017. However, the work was delayed for almost six months. The strengthening of 185 metre runway patch was stopped due to heavy rains and the want of dry days to complete the work in August. 
 
 “We have already submitted displacement documents for the runway to DGCA. Other pending works will soon be completed. The markings and operational distance of the aircraft is to be completed by the operational wing of the AAI. Once pending works are completed, we will send the documents to DGCA for approval to operate full-length runway,” airport director,   said. 
 
 Member of We Work for Working Airport in Surat Sanjay Jain said, “Due to load penalty, non-functional instrument landing system, delay in construction of 2,905 metre runway etc. are some of the factors that are worrying the private airline operators. They (airlines) are unable to operate under such conditions. Ultimately, the passengers are suffering. The AAI must expedite the process.”
 
 
