HYDERABAD: The city is currently facing the problem of vitamin D deficiency on two fronts – senior citizens and women. There is severe deficiency of vitamin D among elderly population (above 60 years) and   in the city, according to two separate research studies. The deficiency of Vitamin D could result in severe health complications including hypertension and heart issues.

 A research study by the citybased   (NIN) has revealed that around 56% of senior citizens suffer from vitamin D deficiency and related health issues. Another study by Care Hospital, Deccan Hospital and   revealed that about 70% of the women had vitamin deficiency or insufficiency. City doctors have blamed the problem of vitamin D deficiency and insufficiency on non-exposure or insufficient exposure to sunlight. Staying in airconditioned rooms and vehicles for long hours during the day is the prime factor for vitamin D deficiency in Hyderabad.
 
 The NIN’s study was published in the latest issue of the Journal of Annals of Human Biology. According to the NIN researchers, deficiency of vitamin D results in various health issues. .
 
 
  
 
 The study covering about 300 senior citizens revealed that mean vitamin D was around 19.3 nano grams per millilitre. Less than 20 nano grams per millilitre is considered deficiency, while between 20 and 29 nano grams per millilitre falls under the insufficient category. The normal range for vitamin D is 30 to 100 nano grams per millilitre. The percentage of the elderly with vitamin D deficiency is 56.3.
 
 “The prevalence of vitamin D deficiency was significantly associated with , high body mass index (BMI), hypertension and metabolic syndrome. Hypertension was a significant predictor of vitamin D deficiency and the risk of vitamin D deficiency was double among elderly with hypertension,” the NIN researchers said adding that the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency was high among the elderly population in Hyderabad.
 
 In a separate study published in the latest issue of the  , doctors from Care Hospital, Deccan Hospital and   concentrated on vitamin D deficiency in women.
 
 “Vitamin D deficiency can have effects on almost each and every system of the body. Women of child bearing age group, who are not exposed to adequate sunlight, are predisposed for developing vitamin D insufficiency and deficiency. These women should be advised adequate exposure to sunlight (90 to 120 minutes daily) and food items rich in vitamin D. Patients with documented vitamin D insufficiency or deficiency must be treated by appropriate doses of calcium and vitamin D,” the doctors said.
 
