MANALI: Grass skiing, introduced to the slopes of the picturesque   valley near here for the first time in the country in 2011, has not exactly caught up. Just “two-three” people apply for the courses offered at Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (ABVIMAS)

 The Union ministry of youth affairs and sports had spent Rs 25 lakh on buying equipment to introduce the sport, and ABVIMAS had even laid a 250ft-long, 30ft-wide grass skiing slope at Solang. Though the sport was promoted across the country, only three persons applied for the course in 2017.
 
 Nanak  , a senior instructor who is in charge of skiing courses that ABVIMAS offers in Himachal Pradesh, said people were not taking interest in grass-skiing courses and athletes saw no scope in it. “Two groups of 32 and 22 local youths were trained in grass skiing. Last year, only three persons applied. The equipment is expensive and will be damaged without use. So, we have decided to conduct courses in August and September this year,” he said.
 
 Unlike traditional skiing, which is possible on snow and hills in winter months only, grass skiing is possible on grassy slopes anywhere and in any season. The skis have wheel. Most people in the country have never heard of the sport. The sport was created in Germany in 1966 for training skiers before winter. It was later introduced in France and was adopted by many other nations, including US, Switzerland, Italy, China and Japan. These nations have international standard grass skiing centres.
 
 Equipment required for grass skiing are not available in Indian markets. ABVIMAS is trying to popularize the sport, but getting no response. This is surprising that India in 2012, one year after grass skiing was introduced, obtained recognition for grass skiing from International Ski Federation. A three-member team also participated in the World Cup at Dizin, Iran, in August 2012.
 
 Chand said youth from other states were not showing much interest in grass skiing, but wanted local skiers to use it before winter for rehearsal. “Our snow skiing athletes can warm up on grass slopes and train themselves before winter. We have enough equipment and are welcoming all those who want to learn its techniques from our experts,” he said.
 
 
