MUMBAI: The   Claims   in Mumbai, a day after awarding   to 36  , appointed a commissioner to visit one victim of the September 2017   stampede whose injuries prevented his presence for the hearing and sought a report on his condition. The tribunal, set up under the Railway Act, also in a compassionate endeavour ensured that money went to the victim most affected.

 In one case, it directed that it be sent to two fixed deposits of Rs 4 lakh each for five years in the names of two girls who lost their mother. The father had received Rs 5 lakh each as ex gratia from the state and Railways and the tribunal observed that the daughters could pursue further studies and benefit from the FDs.
 
 
  
 
 In the case of Akash Parab, who was injured while he and his family had suffered another blow with Ankush Parab having died in the stampede, the tribunal headed by vice chairman Rajan Sharma, when told that Akash cannot be present before the bench, arranged for a visit to his   and called for a report by April 4. The reason is that if an injury causes total disability, the tribunal can award maximum compensation of Rs 8 lakh meant for dead victims’ families.
 
 Sharma and technical member, Shahzad Shah, at the hearing on Tuesday were inundated with pleas from families who lost a member for a compensatory “railway job’’ to a surviving member. The Act doesn’t provide for it. In one case, the tribunal ensured on Wednesday that a son who had received a Rs 5 lakh ex gratia payment for his father’s death, put the amount in his mother’s account and granted the widow Rs 8 lakh. The victims present in court on Tuesday had mixed reactions. Some, like the two daughters, were happy, while some injured wanted more.
 
 Most claimants did not know that rules under the Railway Act, amended last January, had doubled the payout in death cases from Rs 4 lakh to Rs 8 lakh but it also lists out injuries by description and category along with amounts that can be awarded. One finger missing, for instance, attracts a compensation of Rs40,000, while loss of four fingers from one hand will get the victim Rs 2 lakh. Serious injuries qualify for Rs 3-7 lakh. But among the 19 of the 36 injured victims, barring three, most others had no fracture. The maximum compensation for injured was Rs 80,000 in the stampede case, which the tribunal decided within a week of getting the railway’s response of not contesting any claim.
 
 In one case, where a woman died leaving 11 claimants, the tribunal gave Rs 50,000 to a widowed daughter, Rs 25,000 each to two working sons and Rs 1 lakh each to the other seven children, including four minors for whom the amount was directed to be put in an FD. The father had Rs 10 lakh from the state and Railway, it observed.
 
 The tribunal order provides for amounts to be sent within 60 days to bank accounts provided by victims.
 
 
