Mumbai: A senior counsel for  ,  , argued that   is fighting a “duplicitous battle” in trying to paint   as a “principal villain of the piece” when prior to his ouster he had himself “distilled and finalised the draft of corporate governance”. 

 Arguing before the   ( ) here, to have a plea — filed by minority shareholders alleging acts of mismanagement and oppression against Tata Sons — dismissed, Singhvi said that there was absolutely no material put forth by the Mistry camp to show that the company’s articles are per se illegal or contrary to the Companies Act. He said Mistry’s battle against the articles was “opportunistic” and “self-serving”.
 
 The case of Mistry that his removal was “oppressive” is unfounded, said Singhvi, adding how “all was well with the same articles — from memorandum of association — and same practices and same procedure so long as Mistry was director and chairman, and suddenly turned culpable after his removal”.
 
 The arguments of Singhvi focused on Article 75 in the Articles of Association (AoA), which allows for compulsory purchase of shares, and how it has been on the book for 100 years since the group’s inception and was never challenged. The Mistry camp wants the article struck off as being illegal and against shareholder interest. Singhvi said that the AoA of any company is valid so long as it does not violate the law of the land. He emphasised that various courts had held similar clauses allowing compulsory purchase of shares, to be legal.
 
 Singhvi also pointed out many letters and emails where Mistry himself had proposed interaction and prior consultation with Tata trustees, something which he had now attacked as being an oppressive practice. Singhvi demanded that the petitioners prove how the Articles of Association of Tata Sons is oppressive.
 
 Earlier, Singhvi said that the “argument of articles being per se (intrinsically) bad and need to be struck off is interesting because it is on a per se delay of 51 years. Singhvi said that he would be “setting out many inconvenient truths” for Cyrus Mistry. “No one can plead selective amnesia for decades”. His arguments will continue for almost whole of next week now.
 
 
