NAGPUR: A bunch nearly 50 dynamic and zealous youngsters put up a great show and enthralled the audience by showcasing their dance expertise at a musical ' '. The programme was organized by Trinya   Mahila Sangathan to celebrate the glory of  , grandson on  , on the occasion of Gudi Padwa. 

 Vasantrao Deshpande Hall was jampacked as devotees from across the city came to witness the grand event to soak in the divine love for their Lord on Sunday evening. The event was conceptualised by Bhargav Patel and his wife   from Patidar Swajan Group (Mumbai). The show was first of its kind to be held in Nagpur with special performances dedicated to the idol of Khatu Shyam. 
 
 Anchor Uma Saboo too played a fantastic role, engaging the audience with her skilful ways and kept the energy levels high throughout the three-hour long programme by igniting the faith in them through spiritual anecdotes. 
 
 To set the right mood and transport the devotees to different zone, the performers presented a dance number on famous Rajasthani song 'Kesariya Baalam Aavo Ni'. This gave a sneak peek into the rich culture of Rajasthan where Khatu Shyam was believed to hail from. 
 
 The songs were mostly peppy and catchy numbers which grabbed the attention and soon the crowd would hum along. Most of the tracks were picked up from popular bhajans of the community which was why the people could relate to it. 
 
 The dancers were impressive with their graceful gestures, coordinated moves and clean formations. Dance styles mostly presented were Odissi, Bharatanatyam, Ghoomar, Kalbeliya and other folk dances of Rajasthan. 
 
 The energy on stage matched the crowd and the performers were repeatedly cheered. Some dance segments seemed not less than a Bollywood sequence where professional steps were well-collaborated with perfect facial expressions. 
 
 Overall, it was a colourful and exuberant event where Maheshwari community got an opportunity to enrich their faith and experience a connection with their idol. Rekha Rathi, joint secretary and Suman Pacheesia, secretary, said, "We are overwhelmed by the response and are looking forward to conduct more such events." 
 
 Producer Bhargav Patel said such events help in bringing the youths closer to their religion and understand their roots better.
 
 
