LUCKNOW: With Bada Mangal beginning from Tuesday, Lucknow’s streets were full of kiosks offering prasad of ‘poori-sabzi’, rice and dal and sharbat to anyone who stopped by.

 However, the lack of a waste management system and poor planning on the part of Lucknow Municipal Corporation led to littering on streets.
 
 Despite framing strict rules to impose user charges on organisers for waste collection this year, LMC failed to collect the charge from even a single organiser.
 
 Moreover, it was also mandated that all organisers would take permission from LMC before setting up stalls so that its sanitary staff could coordinate with the organisers to collect waste.
 
 On the first Bada Mangal, however, none of the stalls was registered with LMC. According to its estimate, more than 1,500 big and small prasad stalls were set up. From main roads to bylanes, they were spread across the city but none had approached LMC for prior approval.
 
 LMC had announced it would charge organisers Rs 100 for water and drinks, Rs 200 for boondi and light prasad while Rs 500 for food distribution.
 
 Environment engineer   said, “Tuesday was an off day because of Labour Day and LMC could not enforce the user charge or penalty on stalls. Besides, religious sentiments are attached with Bada Mangal and LMC couldn’t take strict measures on the first day.”
 
 LMC had also announced that under the norms of  , it was liable to impose penalties ranging from Rs 5,000 to 50,000 on offenders. It had said it would penalise those found dumping garbage on roads and in the open.
 
 However, despite most stall organisers flouting norms, LMC was unable to impose neither user charges nor a fine on anyone.
 
 As a result, widespread littering was witnessed on almost every street and crossing. The number of dustbins was dismally low.
 
 In places such as Aliganj, Bhootnath, Vikasnagar, Alambagh and Chowk, piles of paper plates, disposable glasses and food waste were seen on roadsides. Only at a few places such as Indirangar, LDA Colony and   were dustbins found but even those were brimming with garbage by afternoon.
 
 Neither LMC nor any organiser had made arrangements for regular cleaning of dustbins. As a result, waste was spilling onto the roads, littering the surroundings and serving as feed for stray animals.
 
 Only a few places had proper arrangements for waste dumping. Stalls between   and   crossing had sufficient provision for dustbins and cleaning of roads. The organisers were also seen requesting people to throw plastic plates and glasses only in dustbins.
 
 Pappoo Singh, an organiser in Gomtinagar, said, “LMC should have created enough awareness about imposing user charge for bhandaras in advance. We don’t know even today about the charges and how LMC will take care of regular cleaning and waste collection during bhandaras.”
 
 
  
  
 
