LUDHIANA: Fissures have surfaced between the local leadership of Aam Aadmi Party ( ) and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), which had formed an alliance during the assembly elections.

 AAP district president Daljit   has accused LIP president and   of carrying out activities against the alliance. He announced candidates in all constituencies, ignoring the fact that seats are yet to be divided, Grewal alleged.
 
 However,   claimed that he will not comment over Grewal’s statements as he is in talks with the state-level leadership of AAP. On Monday, he is going to meet the senior leadership of AAP in Chandigarh after which the seat sharing will be announced.
 
 The differences can be felt among local leaders of both parties who don’t talk about any alliance. Moreover, ticket aspirants and ward presidents of both parties have displayed the hoardings separately and there is no mention of alliance in those posters and banners.
 
 AAP leaders claimed that the probable candidates from LIP propagate ‘Har ward ch Bains’ (Bains in every ward) through their hoardings and banners. The AAP leaders also alleged that LIP leaders have announced four candidates in   constituency and two candidates in Ludhiana West. Both constituencies were with AAP in the assembly polls.
 
 Addressing a press conference,   said the AAP leadership wants to contest the MC polls under one platform but the LIP leaders are involved in anti-alliance activities. He alleged in the assembly polls, the AAP had contested elections from two constituencies while LIP was given four constituencies.
 
 “Now, LIP leaders have started announcing names of candidates not only in the four constituencies, but also in two constituencies which were with the AAP. I have conveyed everything to the senior leadership and now seniors will take a decision on the issue,” Grewal said.
 
 LIP president and MLA Simarjit Bains refused to comment, saying that he has always talked with state-level leaders of AAP. “Our alliance is with AAP and not with Daljit Grewal so I am not answerable to him,” he said.
 
 He said there is a meeting in Chandigarh on Monday where they will reach a consensus and then candidates will be announced in the wards. He said as far as announcement of ward presidents on all 95 wards is concerned, they have done it just to strengthen their base in all wards.
 
 Box: AAP announces district-level structure
 
 AAP leaders announced its organization structure at district-level by appointing 31 members in core committee, five vice-presidents, two secretaries, five general secretaries, 12 joint secretaries, 19 block wise presidents and 95 ward presidents.
 
 
