Two summers ago, a Class X student was forced to drop out of school and marry a 45-year-old man, becoming one of the hundreds of   victims in  . 

 Child marriage, a practice prevalent among the tribal communities in the area, robs both girls and boys of their childhood. While a majority of the girls become mothers before turning adults, the boys as young as 16 burdened with the responsibilities of a family and fatherhood become vulnerable to exploitation by red sanders smugglers. "Child marriage plays a major role in forcing the youth into illegal activities. Since there are few livelihood options in the Hills, most are lured by red sanders smugglers who promise a few thousands," said Chezhian Ram, an activist who has bagged the Rajiv Gandhi Manav Seva Award.
 
 
  
  
 
 More than 5,000 people from Vellore and Tiruvannamalai are languishing in prisons in Andhra Pradesh for more than three years in connection with  . About 80% are from the Hills and aged between 18 and 30 years of age with young families at home.
 
 With no law enforcing agency taking measures to stop the practice, the human rights violation goes on under the garb of tribal culture in the 350- odd villages in the 17 panchayats that are part of Vellore and Tiruvannamalai. "Over 70% of the girls are victims of child marriage. They get married between 14 and 16 years," said P Murugan of Childline in Jamunamaruthur. 
 
 The villagers thwart every attempt to end the problem, says Murugan. "The entire village turns against us when we try to stop a child marriage. We were chased away when we went to stop one in   recently," he said. 
 
 Kumar (name changed), 24, a tailor in Jamunamaruthur, and father of three, is a rare example of a man trying his hand beyond wood cutting. "I was 16 at the time of marriage and my wife 14 years. We became parents soon after," said Kumar, who has studied till Class VIII. Child marriage brings with it issues about the health of the young mother, family planning and education of the next generation.
 
 While for the villagers it is tradition, the official apathy makes the situation worse. Recently, when a case of a 12-year-old getting married in   was reported, a social welfare official said, "If a girl and boy like each other, they can get married or stay together. It is an accepted practice here."
 
 Allegations of the health department data on childbirth being fudged to hide child marriages have also surfaced. A village health nurse said they enter the age of pregnant women as 18 or above, to keep the records clean. However, block medical officer of Jamunamaruthur, Dr P Ram Manohar, said things have changed, but there is a long way to go to bail out the community from the grip of child marriage and the host of health-related issues.
 
 While vice-president of TN Adivasi Ammaipukkalin Kuttaiambu Leelavathi said they have been conducting awareness programmes to dissuade people from practicing early marriage, some parents too are encouraging their children to study and escape the drudgery of the Hills.
 
 
