BENGALURU: Bengaluru district election officials on Friday said either the address or other nomenclature of over 500 polling stations in the city will change for the assembly polls and asked voters to crosscheck details on the Election Commission website (ceokarnataka. kar.nic.in).

 N Manjunatha Prasad, Bengaluru district election officer, said the reason for the change in nomenclature includes efforts to bring polling stations within the polling area jurisdiction, increase of space at polling stations, non-availability of old stations and change in names of the polling stations. “In consultation with political parties, we have also shifted 393 polling stations away from religious centres,” Prasad said.
 
 Prasad said officials have taken various steps to facilitate smoother voting experience including ensuring that all polling stations, for the first time, are located on the ground floor of the building. To raise voter awareness, the election commission has roped in Kannada actor Ramesh Aravind whose video messages and campaign programmes will be out soon.
 
 Citizens present manifesto
 
 Universalization of all basic rights and entitlements such as food, water, health, education, social security and employment and an unfettered access to the same without privatization are among the demands made in Civil Society Forum’s Karnataka Assembly Election Manifesto 2018. The manifesto, a collaborative effort of 41 organizations and individuals dedicated to public service said the budget required for the universalization of all basic rights and entitlements should be implemented through legislations and not schemes. The manifesto was presented to representatives from the JD(S), AAP and CPI(M).
 
 No illegal Bangladeshi voters in Bengaluru
 
 The Election Commission has found no substantive evidence in the BJP’s complaint that that   leaders are trying to add illegal Bangaldeshi migrants to the voters list in Bengaluru. The   had claimed that over two lakh illegal Bangladeshi migrants weer added to the list by Bengaluru development minister K J George and K R Puram MLA Byarathi Basavaraj.
 
 Mahadevapura leads in poll seizures
 
 From March 27, the day the model code of conduct came into effect, the city police have seized cash and valuables worth about Rs 18 lakh. Cash seizures alone totalled Rs 7 lakh. “Mahadevapura constituency leads the seizure with Rs 12.5 lakh followed by   (Rs 12 lakh) and Anekal (Rs 7 lakh). The seized material includes sewing machines, metal stands, shawls and liquor,” said Bengaluru City police commissioner T Suneel Kumar.
 
