One of the many characters that funnyman   has given life to on radio and online, Nograj, is all set to get an even bigger canvas, when the film Humble Politiciann   (HPN), hits screens this Friday. Playing Nograj was no big deal for Danish and he is excited about the film, but he is also anxious to see how audiences will react to a full-fledged tale spanning over two hours. “This is good nervous energy. When I say the product is good, it is not arrogance; it is belief. I am not scared. I am worried, or rather concerned, because this is like my baby. I have been doing it for so long, and after eight years, I am going to let go of it. That hurts and I can actually feel a lump in my throat,” he says. As we sit down for a chat, days before the release, the newbie actor tells us about his experience of working on this   directorial, his amazing co-stars and why he would want to rest Nograj for a while.

 
 
 My first day on set was quite cool. I took to it like a fish to water. I have been standing in front of a camera for a while now. It’s just that with movie making, people seem to be very stressed, for some reason. On the set, you get the feeling that everybody wants to do something and that something is so abstract in their heads that it takes time. In fact, I really want to know who that guy from Andhra is that they keep calling all the time, ‘Aah, reddy, reddy, reddy (ready)’. It was pretty interesting. My first scene involved Nograj playing a video game. I am so used to talking into the camera, but here, I had to do everything but that. Then I realized that I could do just about anything because I did not have to focus on where the camera was. So, I actually found it easy. What was amusing is that sometimes you have to do the same thing repeatedly to get the perfect shot. The only scene that I ‘struggled’ a bit was with when I was expected to cry. Saad asked me to think of something hurtful from my past and I couldn’t come up with anything. Then I had an idea, because there is one song that makes me very sad —   singing  . They played that song in the background and the entire set was cracking up seeing me cry and doing a sad scene. Onscreen, you will never know that Lata di was responsible for it.
 
 
 
 We never shot in a set and were mostly outdoors. The trouble was that we shot during summer and I used to sweat a lot, and wearing a wig, fake moustache and side burns would quite literally kill me. In the course of shooting this film, I have had so much glue on my face and sniffed so much of it, that by the end of each day, I would be in a daze. The day I finished shooting the film, the first thing I did was to scrub my face thoroughly and get rid of the body fuzz that Saad had asked me to grow for the character. I felt so good when I finally gave up being Nograj.
 There is a campaign sequence in the film, which was entirely improvised once we were out and about. Saad said he was rolling the camera and asked me to go mad, and I did just that. I fell at people’s feet, took bangles off of some ladies, taking a pack of chips from a little girl, so on and so forth. A lot of the time, people did not know who I was and approached us for help with getting electricity, etc. 
 
 
 
 First and foremost, I have to mention  , who plays my wife, Lavanya, in the film. I absolutely love her. I have never come across another woman who is as comfortable with who she is as Sumukhi. She is one of the most diligent and hardworking people I know. What she does, not many others can. She is not shy of making an idiot out of herself, which is exactly like me. For instance, there is a scene in the film in which she gets into a swimming pool wearing a sari. Most of my scenes are with Monjunath, played by  . We are like Batman and Robin in the film. Vijay was my go-to guy if I had a question, say, in terms of what to do in a particular scene and he would tell me, or, after doing a sequence, I would look at him and ask ‘OK, na?’ He is a very intelligent guy and, hence, was my OK man.
 
 
 
 Never say never, because we could be looking at the possibility of doing a sequel and making it a franchise —Humbler Politician or maybe Humblest, etc. But honestly, I don’t know. The fear most creative people have is repetition. For e.g., my prank calls — I couldn’t repeat the plot, but I could use the character again and again. It all boils down to the plot. The premise matters more than the presentation. If the story is half-decent, the camera and director can be all over the place, the actor can be a pillar, but it will work. If the content is right, I will get the character back. If it doesn’t I know it could be like killing a massive part of me, but I don’t want to do it for sometime, at least. I want to disassociate from Nograj because you have to keep evolving and I think that is something I have done right through my career. I do have a couple of ideas lined up, but I don’t want to do them because I don’t know if I even want to continue acting. Growing up, I wanted to do ‘a’ film and ‘a’ film is here. Nograj will go to sleep for a bit. 
 
