NAGPUR: Fifty-three employees, including executive director and general manager, of   have enrolled for one-year postgraduate diploma programme in urban planning and development conducted by the regional centre of   National Open University ( ). The initiative is modelled on the lines of Delhi and Chennai where metro rail officials have taken up the course.

 Nagpur Metro, however, has earned the distinction of most enrolments as both Delhi and Chennai had 48 each officials joining the course. The course is being funded by   and the fee of Rs3,600 would be waived off for the employees.
 
 Mahametro executive director Janak Kumar Garg said the convenience and course content were the main reasons behind pursuing the studies.
 
 “Basically, it is a new course and will give a comprehensive view of planning. The metro rail system is part of urban transport that comprises several other modes which are gradually becoming relevant. When I discussed about the course with IGNOU, I found that it would cover all those aspects and compliment the work experience of our employees,” he said.
 
 Garg added that he had already completed a course in disaster management from the open university. “It gives an advantage to working professional to take up different studies. The course material offered by IGNOU is really good,” he said.
 
 IGNOU regional director P Sivaswaroop said around six months back he had approached the Mahametro and invited them to enrol for the one-year PGP in urban planning and development. “One of the objectives of IGNOU is also to help skilled professionals to upgrade their knowledge. I knew about Delhi and Chennai and then thought that such good practices can be replicated here too,” he said.
 
 Sivaswaroop added that Thursday was the last day for enrolling for the course and 20 other students (apart from Mahametro) too have joined. “We are hoping that the Mahametro facility in   is made available for holding the classes which would commence from March. The Mahametro officials also include additional GM, senior section engineers, AGM, SrDGM , managers and supervisor-level officials,” he said.
 
 He added that the course has been designed keeping in mind the fact that by 2025, half of India’s population will be urbane. “Therefore, the course will be useful for people involved in the urban development programmes and also to fresh graduates,” Sivaswaroop said.
 
 
