PATNA: Hundreds of teachers, both serving and retired, from different colleges and universities of the state will join a nationwide rally to be held in New Delhi on April 3 in protest against the alleged anti-people education policy of the central government.

 Endorsing the call given by the All India Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations ( ) for a massive rally, the Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar (Futab) and the Patna University Retired Teachers’ Association (Purta) have urged college and university teachers to join the movement launched against the government’s move to privatize higher education.
 
 According to Futab working president K B Sinha, members of various bodies, including Aifucto, All India Federation of Retired University and College Teachers’ Organisations (Aifructo), Federation of Central University Teachers’ Associations (Fedcuta), Delhi University Teachers’ Association (Duta) and World Federation of Teachers’ Unions (Fise), will participate in the rally to be organized under the banner of the   (JFME). Teachers from different parts of the country will march in a procession from Mandi House circle to the Parliament in support of their demands.
 
 The Purta executive committee at its meeting held under the chairmanship of S W M Subuktagin on Wednesday also appealed to its members to join the rally and show their solidarity with the teaching community. It condemned the recent decision of the central government regarding declaration of 60 institutions as autonomous, classifying them into different categories.
 
 “This is an attempt by the government to dissociate itself from all financial and moral responsibilities towards the growth of higher education. Besides, the move is aimed at privatization of eminent centres of higher education and converting them into corporate entities. The rally is also against the imminent danger of shutting down most educational institutions due to zero appointment of teachers right from primary schools to universities,” said Purta leaders S K Ganguli, J P Singh, H B P Sinha and R C P Sinha.
 
 Supporting the movement launched by university teachers from all over the country, Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh criticized the Union government for adopting different yardsticks for implementation of the revised payscales in central and state universities. 
 
 
