Bhopal: The boundary of Van Vihar—spread over an area of 4.45 sq km— is being expanded by 100 metres in all directions, making it an eco- sensitive zone (ESZ) where all commercial activities would be banned. The decision to create the ESZ has been taken by the district administration after a recent directive from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. 

 After the authorities at the   officials received the directives, a meeting of project monitoring committee was convened on Friday. 
 
 At present, the proposal is to extend 100-metre patch that comprises parts of Manav Sangrahalay, Special Task Force battalion,   and revenue area. 
 
 A monitoring committee has been constituted comprising the divisional commissioner, a representative of an NGO working in field of environment, an expert in area of ecology, executive engineer public works department, executive engineer public health engineering, representative from state pollution control board, commissioner municipal corporation, chief conservator of forest, expert in biodiversity nominated by state government and director of Van Vihar. Divisional commissioner is to be the chairman of the committee, while Van Vihar director will be member secretary of the committee. 
 
 As per the notification, the tenure of the monitoring committee shall be three years or till the reconstitution of a new committee. The committee will have to send an annual report— updates of April 1 to March 31— to chief wildlife warden of the state till June 30 every year. 
 
 The notification also mentioned a few activities, which are restricted in the eco-sensitive zone including commercial mining, setting up of industries causing pollution, establishment of major hydroelectric project, discharge of untreated affluent, setting up of new mills and brick kilns, commercial use of wood and new wood-based industry. The notification also mentioned that no new commercial hotel or resort should be constructed within a kilometre of the boundary. Rain water harvesting, organic farming and adoption of green technology have been promoted for the eco-sensitive zone.
 
 Regional officer of Pollution control board P S   said, “A fencing is to be constructed to make the new boundary. As of now, we will not demolish the places which are coming under the ESZ. Instead, we will just monitor the area and create a fencing. We will make sure that the restricted activities, which are listed in the notification do not take place in the area.”
 
 
