NEW DELHI: The next time you are visiting Humayun’s Tomb, just take a left turn as soon as you enter the premises. Hidden behind the giant blue metallic sheets, you will find the entrance to Delhi’s new landscaping wonder and heritage park — Sunder Nursery.

 
 Hundreds of   have been thronging the peaceful area where nature is at full bloom dotted with freshly-restored Mughal-era monuments.
 
 Right next to the Sundar Burjis, a couple from Noida, Vijay Kumar and Vasanti, were spotted celebrating a special occasion. “It is our anniversary and we have come with our son for a good family time. There aren’t many family hangout spots in Delhi anymore. We hope they are able to maintain this in its pristine state,” said Kumar.
 
 By noon, over a hundred people could be seen enjoying the serene surroundings. Jasaswini Monalisa and her mother Pratibha from Assam had come for an entirely different reason. “We are fond of gardening. We heard about this nursery opening up in new avatar and didn’t want to give it a miss. This just feels like Shalimar Gardens, except the weather,” Monalisa said.
 
 Taking a stroll along the fountains and manicured lawns, Anita Jaggi, a homemaker from GK-II, said, “I used to come here to buy plants, but this is a miraculous transformation. The landscaping and plants are even better than Lodhi Garden.”
 
 Most of the visitors on the first day came to know about the nursery through newspapers. They were pleasantly surprised with the free entry as the ticketing infrastructure hasn’t been set up yet.
 
 Anisha and Santosh Balwani, a retired couple from East Patel Nagar, were busy clicking pictures of the jharokhas. “This doesn’t even feel like Delhi. There is no noise and you can hear the sounds of water flowing and birds chirping. The place isn’t crowded as not many people know about it,” Anisha remarked. Santosh said that they often passed by the area en route to Nizamuddin railway station, but never knew that such a place existed right next to Humayun’s Tomb.
 
 With the number of visitors increasing daily, the guards looking after the 15 freshly-restored Mughal-era monuments said it would be an arduous task to protect them from defacement through carved love messages and paan stains. “We have been asked not to allow people to touch the monuments, damage the trees or   on the grass,” said Anil, a guard, pointing towards the calligraphy on an arched dome.
 
 Entry to the nursery will remain free for a few weeks after which visitors will have to buy tickets for Rs 30.
 
 
