JAIPUR: Former chief minister   on Thursday said Prime Minister   was suffering from guilt for not being able to start work on   oil refinery in past four years, hence was blaming it on previous   government.

 A day earlier, while delivering his motion of thanks to the President’s address in  , the prime minister had remarked, “The way people of Rajasthan were misled about the Barmer refinery was appalling. Just for votes, lies were said. It is in the last three years that the government of India and the Rajasthan government worked together to sort out the pending issues.”
 
 Responding to Modi’s remarks, Gehlot said, “For four years the BJP government stalled the project started by us. The prime minister is suffering from guilt for being unable to get the project started for four years. This is why he is blaming the Congress,” Gehlot said Thursday. He added, “Sonia Gandhi ji never goes to inaugurate a project unless its process has been completed. We completed the process and that is why she came here. The papers are all there, the present government can get it probed.”
 
 The refinery MoU was first signed and its foundation stone laid by the then UPA-II chairperson   towards the fag end of Gehlot-government in 2013. With a change of guard in the state in December 2013, the project remained stalled all these years. Chief minister   renegotiated the deal and signed a revised MOU last year. On January 16, prime minister inaugurated “work commencement” of the project from Pachpadra in Barmer.
 
 Targeting the Raje-government, the former CM said, “People of the state are now asking if they had faulted in giving an unprecedented 163 seats to her to form the government. Why their aspirations were not fulfilled.” Gehlot added, “It seems she (Raje) was no longer interested in running the government.”
 
 The Congress leader said his party would unitedly fight the coming elections and form the state’s next government. “We will not stall the projects of present government once we come to power. He never did such things in past also,” Gehlot said, talking to reporters on the sidelines of breakfast he hosted for former President   at his residence here.
 
 
