A flower vendor was seriously injured after a car, part of the convoy of  , ran over his leg in   (East). According to the police, the car is owned by Rajesh Pillay, a Pune-based businessman who is also a   leader. At the time of the accident, the car was allegedly being driven by the leader's driver, who didn't stop after hitting the victim. The flower vendor claims he is struggling to pay hospital bills. 

 
  
  
 
 On April 23, Member of Legislative Assembly Mangesh Kudalkar from Kurla (East) had organised the renovation programme of   near Nehru Nagar Junction. Several dignitaries were invited to the event and the main guest was Udaysinh Deshmukh, popularly known as Bhayyuji Maharaj from Indore, with scores of followers in Maharashtra, including political leaders.
 
 After the inauguration, when Maharaj was on his way back to Pune, a Volvo from his convoy ran over the flower vendor,  , near the Nehru Nagar junction. Despite the accident, neither the car nor the convoy stopped. Gadkari's wife rushed him to   in Chunnabhati. "My father was crossing the road when the car ran over his leg; the accident can be seen clearly in the CCTV footage from the area. He has fractured his big toe, ankle and a part of shin. He has been operated twice and the doctors have advised him rest. We have already spent Rs 1.5 lakh on hospital bills and he is still in the hospital," said Jai Gadkari, the victim's son, who got a temporary job at Somaiya Hospital last month. "We have taken gold loan to pay the hospital bills," said Jai, saying that his father is the sole breadwinner of the family.
 
 The family claims that despite giving Nehru Nagar police the CCTV footage, no inquiry has been made. "They are waiting for the accused to surrender the car. They have hardly done any investigations," said Jai. "We are yet to arrest the accused. We have already registered the offence and know that the car was part of Maharaj's convoy; the Maharaj, however, has no role in this case," said Sanjay Kale, senior inspector of police, Nehru Nagar police station.
 
 MLA Kudalkar visited the family and told Mirror, "I have helped the family with Rs 25,000, and will try to help them further at all cost. I have already asked the hospital to take proper care of the flower vendor and not to worry about bills."
 
