The nominees for the 90th annual Academy Awards have been announced in Beverly Hills.

  Guillermo Del Toro's cold war fantasy 'The Shape of Water' dominated the nominations as the movie garnered 13 nods, one shy of the record of 14 nominations shared by movies like 'All About Eve', 'Titanic' and 'La La Land'.
 
  The movie has been nominated for Best Picture, Best Director nod for Del Toro, Best Screenplay and acting awards for   (Best Actress in a Leading Role) and   (Best Actress in a Supporting Role), in addition to many nominations in the technical categories.
 
   's war epic 'Dunkirk' was not far behind. The movie was nominated for eight  , including Best Picture, Best Director (Christopher Nolan) and Best Cinematography.
 
  Meanwhile, 'Three Billboards outside Ebbing, Missouri', which is considered to be a frontrunner in Best Picture category after wins at the Golden Globes and SAG awards, is up for seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, lead actress nod for Frances McDormand, with Sam Rockwell and Woody Harrelson nominated in Best Supporting Actor (Male) category.
 
  There was also a historical moment at the announcement ceremony when 'Mudbound' cinematographer Rachel Morrison became the first woman ever to get nominated in the Best Cinematography category.
 
    Haddish and Andy Serkis made an announcement alongside Academy president John Bailey.
 
  And the nominees are ...
 
  
 
  'Call Me by Your Name'
 
  'Darkest Hour'
 
  'Dunkirk'
 
  'Get Out'
 
  'Lady Bird'
 
  'Phantom Thread'
 
  'The Post'
 
  'The Shape of Water'
 
  'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri'
 
  
 
  Paul Thomas Anderson, 'Phantom Thread'
 
  Guillermo del Toro, 'The Shape of Water'
 
  Greta Gerwig, 'Lady Bird'
 
    Nolan, 'Dunkirk'
 
  Jordan Peele, 'Get Out'
 
  
 
  Timothee Chalamet, 'Call Me By Your Name'
 
  Daniel Day-Lewis, 'Phantom Thread'
 
  Daniel Kaluuya, 'Get Out'
 
  Gary Oldman, 'Darkest Hour'
 
  Denzel Washington, 'Roman J. Israel, Esq.'
 
  
 
  Sally Hawkins, 'The Shape of Water'
 
  Frances McDormand, 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri'
 
  Margot Robbie, 'I, Tonya'
 
  Saoirse Ronan, 'Lady Bird'
 
  Meryl Streep, 'The Post'
 
  
 
  Mary J. Blige, 'Mudbound'
 
  Allison Janney, 'I, Tonya'
 
  Lesley Manville, 'Phantom Thread'
 
  Laurie Metcalf, 'Lady Bird'
 
  Octavia Spencer, 'The Shape of Water'
 
  
 
  Willem Dafoe, 'The Florida Project'
 
  Woody Harrelson, 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri'
 
  Richard Jenkins, 'The Shape of Water'
 
  Christopher Plummer, 'All the Money in the World'
 
  Sam Rockwell, 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri'
 
  
 
  'Call Me by Your Name' (James Ivory)
 
  'The Disaster Artist' (Scott Neustadter & Michael H. Weber)
 
  'Logan'
 
  'Molly's Game' (Aaron Sorkin)
 
  'Mudbound' (Dee Rees & Virgil Williams)
 
  
 
  'The Big Sick'' (Emily V. Gordon & Kumail Nanjiani)
 
  'Get Out' (Jordan Peele)
 
  'Lady Bird' (Greta Gerwig)
 
  'The Shape of Water' (Guillermo del Toro & Vanessa Taylor)
 
  'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' (Martin McDonagh)
 
  
 
  'The Boss Baby'
 
  'The Breadwinner'
 
  'Coco'
 
  'Ferdinand'
 
  'Loving Vincent'
 
  
 
  'Beauty and the Beast'
 
  'Blade Runner 2049'
 
  'Darkest Hour'
 
  'Dunkirk'
 
  'The Shape of Water'
 
  
 
  'Blade Runner 2049' (Roger Deakins)
 
  'Darkest Hour' (Bruno Delbonnel)
 
  'Dunkirk' (Hoyte van Hoytema)
 
  'Mudbound' (Rachel Morrison)
 
  'The Shape of Water' (Dan Laustsen)
 
  
 
  'Beauty and the Beast' (Jacqueline Durran)
 
  'Darkest Hour' (Jacqueline Durran)
 
  'Phantom Thread' (Mark Bridges)
 
  'The Shape of Water' (Luis Sequeira)
 
  'Victoria & Abdul' (Consolata Boyle)
 
  
 
  'Baby Driver'
 
  'Blade Runner 2049'
 
  'Dunkirk'
 
  'The Shape of Water'
 
  'Star Wars: The Last Jedi'
 
  
 
  'Baby Driver'
 
  'Blade Runner 2049'
 
  'Dunkirk'
 
  'The Shape of Water'
 
  'Star Wars: The Last Jedi'
 
  
 
  'Dear Basketball'
 
  'Garden Party'
 
  'Lou'
 
  'Negative Space'
 
  'Revolting Rhymes'
 
  Live Action Short Film
 
  'DeKalb Elementary'
 
  'The Eleven O'Clock'
 
  'My Nephew Emmett'
 
  'The Silent Child'
 
  'Watu Wote/All of Us'
 
  
 
  'Dunkirk' (Hans Zimmer)
 
  'Phantom Thread' (Jonny Greenwood)
 
  'The Shape of Water' (Alexandre Desplat)
 
  'Star Wars: The Last Jedi' (John Williams)
 
  'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' (Carter Burwell)
 
  
 
  "Mighty River" (Mudbound)
 
  "The Mystery of Love" (Call Me by Your Name)
 
  "Remember Me" (Coco)
 
  "Stand Up for Something" (Marshall)
 
  "This Is Me" (The Greatest Showman)
 
  
 
  'Blade Runner 2049'
 
  'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2'
 
  'Kong: Skull Island'
 
  'Star Wars: The Last Jedi'
 
  'War for the Planet of the Apes'
 
  
 
  'Baby Driver' (Jonathan Amos & Paul Machliss)
 
  'Dunkirk' (Lee Smith)
 
  'I, Tonya' (Tatiana S. Riegel)
 
  'The Shape of Water' (Sidney Wolinsky)
 
  'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' (Jon Gregory)
 
  
 
  'Darkest Hour'
 
  'Victoria & Abdul'
 
  'Wonder'
 
  
 
  'A Fantastic Woman'
 
  'The Insult'
 
  'Loveless'
 
  'On Body and Soul'
 
  'The Square'
 
  
 
  'Edith+Eddie'
 
  'Heaven Is a Traffic Jam on the 405'
 
  'Heroin(e)'
 
  'Knife Skills'
 
  'Traffic Stop'
 
  
 
  'Abacus: Small Enough to Jail'
 
  'Faces Places'
 
  'Icarus'
 
  'Last Men in Aleppo'
 
  'Strong Island'
 
  Jimmy Kimmel will be returning as the host of the Academy Awards, which will be taking place at the Dolby Theatre at Hollywood & Highland Center in Hollywood.
 
  The ceremony will take place on March 4. 
 
 
