LUCKNOW: Proximity to Delhi and   has paid off once again for economically advanced west UP. 

 About 45% of the total MoUs signed during the Investors' Summit are for this region, accounting for roughly a fourth of the total value of investments pledged for UP. The summit saw the UP government sign more than 1,000 MoUs worth over Rs 4.28 lakh crore.
 
 
  
 
 Data accessed exclusively by TOI shows that west UP, or Pashchimanchal, has bagged the highest number of MoUs. Investment proposed in this area is more than that for relatively under-developed central and east UP taken together, and almost five times more than for the socially and economically backward   region.
 
 Where 495 MoUs have been signed for west UP, 217 have been specifically for Purvanchal and only 46 for Bundelkhand.
 
 Bundelkhand and Purvanchal, for which the government has offered special concessions under its various policies to promote investment there, have seen proposals making up a cumulative 14%. 
 
 "The matter has discussed with the CM as well but we need to analyse the data in greater detail before we can say anything for sure. Based on the raw data we have, the proposed investment in Bundelkhand is still around Rs 24,000 crore which is not less by any imagination," said minister for industrial development  . 
 
 Officials also pointed at floating proposals for 26% of the total investments, where investors had not given any preference for the region.
 
 "About 10% of the total MoUs-for Rs 1.28 lakh crore-have not specified any area. The government can take a call to distribute these across the state to ensure equitable development," said a senior official. However, it remains to be seen how many of these also finally go to west UP.
 
 Government sources said that the pattern of the proposed investments demonstrated that investors continued to show confidence in west UP while even the various tax exemptions for investments in eastern UP could not convince people to invest there. In the several sector-specific policies announced by the government in the run-up to the summit, exemptions in GST and electricity and easier access to land were among the concessions offered. 
 
 "A lot is planned for these areas but the infrastructure is still coming up. West UP is already significantly developed and its proximity to Delhi has been useful. Even if the total investment for this area is about 23%, the sheer number of MoUs signed for the region show that more people have faith in already established industrial areas," said an official.
 
 
