NEW DELHI: When PM Modi lauded his long-trusted lieutenant   as the architect of BJP’s astounding victory in Tripura and emphasised that as a dedicated member he will continue to follow the directions of his party chief in future elections, the chemistry and trust between them was obvious.

 But on Saturday, the PM also turned a tad emotional about Shah, his protege. While profusely praising Shah for ensuring “success after success” for BJP, Modi said he has known the party chief since his student days and it gives him immense pride to see the party win under his leadership. Without naming Rahul Gandhi, the PM referred to how easy it was for “some people” to get the post of party president, but it’s “stature” that ultimately counts. “Pad ka kad badhana chahiye (it’s important to raise the stature of the post),” he said in praise of Shah’s efforts.
 
 Asking the party to adopt a 360-degree strategy to win polls, Modi said on Saturday: “I have full faith that our party chief will decide what is to be done...and how we have to move ahead.
 
 We are dedicated workers and will do whatever task is assigned to us.” The long association of the two leaders has helped in perfect coordination between BJP and the government, a scenario unheard of in the Vajpayee government and the Manmohan Singh dispensation.
 
 Unlike the Vajpayee government when BJP failed to grow as an organisation and the party paid the price for it in 2004, Modi has ensured under Shah BJP grows its roots far and wide.
 
 While BJP’s opponents appear to get into the act a few weeks before an assembly election, Shah plans months ahead of schedule. BJP had its NE plans cut out since 2014 itself.
 
 The Tripura results do not come as a surprise when one looks at the way BJP and the Centre have gone about the task of winning voters. Once every fortnight, a Union minister would be in some part of NE and spend a day there.
 
 With an eye on winning Left-ruled Tripura,  , who did a good job in Varanasi during Modi’s Lok Sabha campaign, was sent to the state in 2014 itself. Shah also relied on feedback from the local cadre before chalking out a strategy.
 
  While many were taken aback when UP CM Yogi Adityanath was roped in to campaign in Tripura, the party was working on wooing the Nath and Deonath followers through him. From promising to fulfil the demand of these two groups for OBC status, to raising the non-implementation of 7th pay Commission in a state where a large populace is into government jobs, and tying up with IPFT to woo the tribals, he knew what will pay electoral dividends.
 
 Shah can convince the PM on holding more rallies in a state where BJP’s prospects are weak. He can ask any minister to campaign, hold press interactions and public meetings during polls. It was Shah’s suggestion, as per sources, that Modi visit the BJP office for party meetings and other occasions so that the coordination between the government and the party was emphasised.
 
  Shah’s unflinching allegiance to Modi allows the PM to cut formalities and discuss issues threadbare with him. His real test lies in the coming months when elections in Karnataka, Rajasthan, MP and Chhattisgarh as well as the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 are held.
 
