JAIPUR: The state wildlife department submitted its reply on Thursday after objections over the security measures at Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve ( ) were raised by the National Tiger Conservation Authority ( ) and temporary ban on reintroduction of tiger was placed. 

 The state government was all set to start relocating a tiger by March 31. However, the project received a setback with NTCA denying to give its nod for the same.
 
 NTCA had written to the state wildlife department for details on various security measures, including collar ID for the first time in October last year. It again sent a communication in November. After getting no response, the NTCA decided to put a temporary ban on the relocation project. 
 
 The state wildlife department feels that the NTCA has asked routine information and this will not delay the relocation process for long. Moreover, the department is hoping to receive the permission soon as MHTR is ready for the relocation.
 
 Chief wildlife warden   confirmed, “We have sent the reply to the NTCA on which queries were raised.” 
 
 Sources said, to take stock of preparations, forest minister Gajendra Singh Khimsar will also reach Kota on Friday. 
 
 To make chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s ambitious plan a success, the wildlife department is also mulling over a plan to shift male tiger T-91. 
 
 As tiger T-91 is perambulating in Ramgarh Sanctuary in Bundi, an insecure habitat after getting strayed from Ranthambore, the wildlife department can possibly reintroduce it to MHTR. 
 
 Sources in the forest department said, “The tiger is straying in an insecure habitat near Bundi. The department recently arrested poachers from the sanctuary. The state is soon planning to relocate this tiger, as delay in shifting can pose a threat to its life,”
 
 Sources further added, “Report was submitted by the NTCA official who was on a visit to inspect 8-km elevated road passing along the MHTR. The state wildlife department was unaware about the visit. Many queries such as safety of habitat would have been resolved if the official would have concerned state wildlife department,” sources said.
 
 
