KOLKATA: The city’s air qual-ity index (AQI) finishing ab-ove 450 at 10am, when most of Kolkata’s working popula-tion and students are out on the street, has prompted environmentalists and health experts to flag the dangers of the AQI’s quirky behaviour.

 The AQI generally spikes after midnight till daybreak, with the sun and the consequent heat bringing down pollution levels as the day wears on. This has not happened this season, say experts, pointing to Tuesday’s and Wednesday’s 10am AQI figures of 467 and 456 respectively. The PM2.5 readings are from the US embassy’s   monitoring station. The permissible limit is 60 and anything above 300 is ‘hazardous’. 
 
 “Ten in the morning is when a large part of the city, and not specific groups like morning walkers, are out. Such high levels of PM2.5 count can wreak havoc on the human system,” warned onc-ologist Subir  . 
 
 According to environmental scientist S M Ghosh, this is a very dangerous trend. “Peak-hour pollution is the worst since it affects everyone from office-goers to school children and the elderly. You can’t avoid stepping out at 10 in the morning and since the reading has been taken near central Kolkata which sees the largest congregation of people and vehicles, it is likely to have a great impact. While early morning pollution aff-ects just morning-walkers, Wednesday’s PM2.5 count aff-ected all,” Ghosh said. 
 
 Environmentalists pointed out that air velocity and temperature might have been responsible for the count pushing up later than usual. 
 
 “A temperature of 10°C-12°C is ideal for trapping particulate matter at the lower levels of the environment. This is what has been happening over the past one week, but the count climbed during peak hours on Wednesday. It might have been triggered by a sudden surge in vehicular pollution in the area,” environmental researcher   explained.
 
 
  
 
 
 Ghosh agreed. High footfall and dense traffic might have combined to take the count soaring on Wednesday morning, he said. “Suspended particulate matter hardly gets any room to escape into the air in the congested parts of Kolkata. This happens due to the bumper-to-bumper traffic and buildings in close proximity that leave no ‘relief space’ for PM 2.5 to float away. With rampant felling of trees and disappearance of waterbodies, there is nothing that can absorb the pollution. So, a sudden spurt in traffic is quite capable of pushing up the count to a very high level,” added Ghosh.
 
 What made Wednesday’s count more dangerous was the fact that PM 2.5 in Kolkata tends to get trapped at a height of seven to 10 feet, which is perilously close to the air that we breathe, said a green activist. “A lot more people inhaled this foul air on Wednesday which saw a late surge in the count. This is far worse than early morning pollution and let’s hope this is not repeated,” he said. While Kolkata’s count reached a highest of 468 at 1 am on Wednesday, Delhi fared much better at 335. On Tuesday, Delhi’s highest was less than half of Kolkata’s peak.
 
 Inhaling PM 2.5 could be fatal in the long-run since it is carcinogenic, warned Ghosh. “It is rich in formaldehyde and benzene which are generated by diesel smoke and ill-maintained petrol-run vehicles respectively. Both have long crossed the permissible limit in Kolkata. Till old vehicles are phased out, PM 2.5 will continue to escalate,” felt Ghosh. Kolkata’s count has crossed 300 on 13 days since January 1.
 
 A consistent count of 350-400 is dangerous, pointed out Dr Ganguly. “Since PM 2.5 goes straight into the lungs without any resistance, it is difficult to evade. Apart from cough, sneeze and breathlessness – which are the relatively harmless effects of an exposure to PM 2.5 – it can cause COPD, aggravate heart diseases and even lead to cancer in the long run. Since the particulate matter that we inhale are laden with vehicular pollution, they have a high metal content. This exposes us to lung cancer as well as head and neck cancer,” the oncologist said.
 
 
