MUMBAI: The rituals associated with the Christian mourning period of Lent have peaked as the season comes to a close at Good Friday on March 30. Papiya singers are fanning out across Catholic enclaves singing mournful songs while gospel bands are performing music concerts.

 Good Friday marks the day Jesus Christ died on the cross while Easter is the day of his holy resurrection from the grave.
 
 Christians tend to forgo their favourite temptation during these 40 days, and this year, several youngsters chose to avoid spending too much time on social media.
 
 In an inspiring move, the   priests of St Peter's Church, Bandra, have been urging parishioners to consider shroud burials and forgo the use of coffins as part of their Lenten duties.
 
 The church web site says, "Lent is a good time for all of us to contemplate on a change in our choices. One such choice that the parish is encouraging is to opt for 'shroud burial' as an ecological measure and a sign of simplicity and humility. Please discuss this in your families and take a common decision. All Jesuit priests in Mumbai have pledged this already."
 
 St Peter's has its own cemetery with 350 graves so parish priest Fr Frazer Mascarenhas understands the need to begin reform on home turf. He said, "This move is in keeping with Pope Francis' letter where he dwelt on 'Care for Creation'. Shroud burials are encouraged because otherwise bodies take years to decompose if we encase them in coffins. Also, it is an embodiment of humility. The movement is spreading fast from Thane, Vasai and across Maharashtra. Approximately 200 priests of the Jesuit order from Mumbai and other parts of the state have in fact pledged to opt for shroud burial."
 
 Holy Week observances began at Palm Sunday March 25. Easter Sunday will be celebrated April 1. Easter is the most significant festival on the Christian calendar, even more than Christmas, for the belief in resurrection is the pillar of the faith.
 
 Holy Family Church, Chakala held a shadow play on the passion and death of Christ. Parish communities conducted the Way of the Cross devotion in their neighbourhoods. The one in   saw 200 mourners mirror Christ's walk to Calvary with prayers read out at the 14 crosses in the bylanes.
 
 At   in Parksite, Vikhroli, Fr   led two busloads of parishioners to Velankanni Shrine in Uttan for the Stations of the Cross. "We are now preparing for the Triduum which means the three days of Maundy Thursday, Good Friday and Easter. We are having live stations of the cross on Good Friday. Around 450 parishioners may attend," he said.
 
 Music is integral to Lent observances. A Gospel Band named Open Secret is performing a Lenten concert tour titled 'The Last Words' at 11 parishes across Mazgaon, Byculla, Dadar, Mahim, Bandra, Vakola, Andheri (E), Kurla, Kanjurmarg and Mulund. The final show is in Mira Road Wednesday.
 
 
