KANNUR: The   boycotted the all-party peace meeting called by the government on Wednesday in the wake of the recent killing of Youth   leader Shuhaib. What provoked the UDF was the presence of   leader and Rajya Sabha MP K K Ragesh and district panchayat president K V Sumesh on the dais.

 When DCC president Satheesan Pacheni raised the issue before minister for culture A K Balan who chaired the meeting, CPM district secretary P Jayarajan intervened and said Ragesh represented the CPM. The Congress leader then said if that was the case, he should sit among the party representatives and not on the dais. Moreover, only two people from a party had been asked to participate in the meeting and as P Jayarajan and K P Sahadevan represented the CPM, there was no logic in Ragesh participating in the meeting when representatives of other parties were kept out of it, the Congress leader argued.
 
 
 UDF MLAs KC Joseph, K M Shaji, and Sunny Joseph rushed to the venue, demanding they should also be permitted to participate in the meeting. Balan said a meeting of the people’s representatives would be held later and requested the participants to allow Ragesh to sit on the dais considering that he was an MP. When the protest mounted, Ragesh and Sumesh left the dais and sat among the party representatives. But that did not abate the fury of the Congress and the IUML leaders, who said they were boycotting the meeting, and left the place.
 
 However, since representatives of all LDF constituents and representatives of the   and other smaller parties decided to cooperate, the meeting went ahead. Briefing the reporters after the meeting minister Balan said the government has no objection to handing over the probe to the  . He said the special investigation team led by IG   was constituted based on the memorandum of KPCC president M M Hassan.
 
 Referring to the criticism that the government representative did not visit the house of Shuhaib, the minister said the plan was to visit the house after the peace meeting and taking into confidence the opposition members as well.
 
 Meanwhile, P Jayarajan said the CPM would conduct its own inquiry into the murder of Shuhaib to find out whether any party workers were involved in it.
 
