CHANDIGARH: Investigations into cash-for-job scam of the   ( ) has revealed that its arrested staffers were present in the office on August 25, 2017, when Dera Sacha Sauda followers had resorted to violence in Panchkula. They were not supposed to be in office as the state government had ordered all offices in the area to remain shut anticipating the violence in the wake of conviction of dera head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in two rape cases.

 What’s more, personal vehicles of two of the HSSC arrested staffers were set on fire by the dera followers but they did not report the matter to the police as this would have raised questions about their presence in office. This has raised further questions over the functioning of commission, said police sources. Sources claimed that the arrested staffers were also found to have links to senior officials of the commission. Police are now working in that direction to nab more culprits.
 
 The scam had come to the fore on Thursday after a special investigation team (SIT) arrested HSSC superintendent Subhash Prashar, assistants Rohtash Sharma, Sukhwinder Singh and Anil Sharma and IT cell official Puneet Saini. In addition, manpower service provider associated with the commission Dharminder Singh, HSVP clerk Balwan Singh and irrigation department assistant Surender Kumar and a junior lecturer Suresh Kumar of Jind were also held.
 
  The nine were arrested for allegedly taking money from successful candidates in recruitments by telling them they had failed to make the cut but could still be selected if they paid up. Meanwhile, the Panchkula chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court on Friday ordered four-day police remand for the nine accused arrested by the SIT of the chief minister’s flying squad. CJM Kapil Rathi ordered the police remand as the investigating officers said custodial interrogation of the accused was required to ascertain their links and who had collected money from the candidates. SIT told the court that the officials had to be interrogated to ascertain the categories of jobs in which the accused had weaved a web to track the prospective candidates.
 
 Meanwhile, during the raids at HSSC office at Sector 2 in Panchkula, police seized 22 hard discs, 15 CDs, five computers and some incriminating documents of the selected candidates. It is alleged that the racket was operating since one-and-a-half years and the accused were charging anything from Rs 2 lakh to Rs 20 lakh from the aspiring candidates. It is alleged that the accused had also tempered with the results prepared by the commission during this time.
 
 Inspector general of police (CID) A K Rao, who is in charge of the CM flying squad, confirmed that the interrogation of accused could bring more names to the fore. “We are verifying the facts related to presence of officials in the HSSC office during the day of violence by the dera followers,” he said.
 
 
