Guess who was in town recently?   of Iktara (Wake Up Sid), Tumhi ho bandhu (Cocktail) and Jeete hai chal ( ) fame! The singer, who recently collaborated with famous Pakistani poet   for the single, Yeh jo mujh par nikhar hai, spoke to CT about her latest song, how politics is affecting music and more. Excerpts:

 The sweets! Especially, the sandesh. I’ve been here a couple of times before and every time, I stop at a sweet shop while driving from the airport to the hotel and buy sandesh. I also love phuchkas and visit   and Alipore just for that (smiles).
 
 All creative people are always in search of ideas and you never know when and how your thoughts match those of someone else. I met Rehmanji at a mushaira, where he was performing and I liked the way he could say a lot of things through simple words. So, I approached him through one of my friends and found that both of us are great fans of Rumi. Thus, began our friendship. He also sent me some of his ghazals and the lyrics of Yeh jo mujh par nikhar hai really touched me. Then one day, the tune struck me and finally, after a lot of effort, we made the song.
 
 
 It took me more than a year to dub, design and produce it. One thing I’m very particular about is that I don’t want to make a song in a hurry. I know I took a lot of time to produce this song, but I feel whatever I sing should come from the bottom of my heart and should have the power to touch every soul.
 
 
 People liked it a lot, not only in India but also in Pakistan. After the song was released, I sent it to Rehmanji and his parents really appreciated the work. They not only praised it but showered their blessings on me. I also got numerous calls and messages from Pakistan. People across the border loved the way I designed the song.
 
 This can’t be a solution to the political tension between the two countries. We need to find a constructive and peaceful solution. And the best medium to do this is music, as it plays a great role in binding people and creating harmony. The more we share, more can we exchange ideas and reduce the political gap between the two countries. And only artistes have the potential to bridge that gap, as I feel they don’t belong to any particular country. Their talent is not restricted to political boundaries.
 — Pushpita Dey
 
 
