CHANDIGARH: Just five days after two Kashmiris were beaten up by a group of students in  's Mahendergarh, another Kashmiri student was physically assaulted in   sub-division of   district on Wednesday afternoon.

  Ahmed, from Srinagar's   locality, was returning to his hostel along with his classmate after attending classes for a bachelor's degree in radiology at a private university when a group of students from the same varsity allegedly assaulted him near a petrol pump outside the campus. Incidentally, some of the assailants also reside in the same hostel as Mudasir.
 
 Mullana police station SHO   confirmed that Mudasir had been assaulted by some of his fellow students. However, the police officer said that the injured student had refused to lodge a formal police complaint on the issue.
 
 There was no trigger that led to Wednesday's physical assault. Kashmiris studying in the private varsity have been targeted for months by their fellow students, who have been looking for reasons intimidate and assault them, according to sources associated with Mudasir.
 
 "The only reason for the assault is that Mudasir is a Kashmiri. The matter has been brought to the notice of the university authorities for action against assailants," one of the sources said.
 
 
 
 
 Mudasir has not filed a police complaint and is relying on the university authorities to take action against his assailants.
 
 The university officials did not respond to telephone calls seeking information on action to be taken against the students involved in the assault on Mudasir.
 
 “We had reached the spot soon after getting the information about the assault. We have counselled the (Kashmiri) student, but he refused to lodge any formal complaint. He said that he would go with the action taken by the university authorities against the students involved,” Inspector Rajesh Kumar said.
 
 When contacted, Ambala SP Abhishek Jorwal also confirmed the assault, but denied it was an attack by a group of students. “Even as no student, including the one from Kashmir, has lodged a formal complaint, we have told the SHO to keep a close watch on the activities in and around the campus. In this case, we are open to taking action after a complaint is filed,” said Jorwal.
 
 The attack on Mudasir is the second case of assault on Kashmiri students in Haryana in less than a week. It comes just five days after two students — Amjad Ali and Aaftab Ahmad — from Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district were assaulted by a group of students in Mahendergarh district.
 
 
 
