HYDERABAD: A day after promising to load ATMs with currency twice daily to overcome the massive cash crunch,   (SBI) on Thursday said it started loading ATMs in three batches and hoped to restore normalcy by next week. But, not happy with the prevailing situation, the Telangana government urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and bankers to ensure adequate supply of cash, so that citizens are not made to run around with empty wallets and forced to wait in long queues near the ATMs.

 Chief general manager, SBI, Swaminathan J in a press release said cash availability reached 70% after the loading custodians filled some of the ATMs in the evening. “Other banks are also reporting similar availability of cash in their ATMs. The situation is getting better. As far as we are concerned, our cash loading custodians loaded cash in three batches,” he said. 
  
 Swaminathan said the local RBI office has also started supplying cash since Wednesday night. “We have witnessed a reduction in the number of withdrawals and people are cooperating. Hopefully, if the trend continues, the situation will ease considerably by next week,” he added.
 
 Earlier in the day, finance minister  , addressing the state-level bankers’ committee meeting, asked the banks to immediately cut the deficit running into a few thousands of crores and supply an additional ?5,400 crore towards the input subsidy scheme for farmers beginning on May 10. When Rajender pressed, bankers, however, refused to provide details of the deficit   is facing. Sources said out of ?70,000 crore cash deficit across the country, as per an SBI report, Telangana and   are facing a major chunk of the deficit.
 
 The minister urged the RBI to ensure adequate cash supplies to banks so that farmers and common man are not put to any inconvenience. “You (RBI) must repose confidence among people on the banking system by making adequate supplies,” Rajender said. The RBI officials promised that more supplies are expected to reach the banks in coming days. Agriculture minister Pocharam Srinivas Reddy was also present at the meeting.
 
