BETTIAH: Foreign currency and jewellery worth over Rs13 lakh were recovered from another locker of suspended IPS officer   Kumar’s in-laws at   in Uttar Pradesh as the special vigilance unit’s raids continued on the fifth consecutive day in connection with the disproportionate assets case lodged against the former Muzaffarpur   and his family members. However, the search operation launched at the Muzaffarpur SSP’s office and official residence on Monday concluded on Friday.

 On Friday, SVU sleuths stumbled upon 1685 Canadian dollars, $US498 and 268 Malaysian ringgits in addition to gold and silver worth Rs11,92,765 kept in the locker of Vivek’s in-laws at the Bank of Baroda branch in Muzaffarnagar. So far, the SVU has unearthed cash, jewellery, fixed deposits in banks and property documents worth over Rs6 crore from his office and residence at Muzaffarpur and the residence of his father at Saharanpur and his in-laws at Muzaffarnagar in UP. The preliminary enquiry as detailed in the FIR found a nexus of Vivek (40) and his wife   with her relatives established through web of deliberate interlinking of their banking transactions to camouflage the IPS officer’s illegal earnings.
 
 The FIR notes that Vivek’s father   is a retired person since January 2009, a year prior to the officer’s wedding in February 2010. From a meagre pension of Rs6,276 in 2009, he now draws about Rs23,000. Vivek’s mother-in-law   is said to be a housewife. “It stands to reason that they are persons of modest means,” the FIR notes.
 
 The parents-in-law along with other relatives of Nidhi, including her brother Nikhil, his wife Shelley Karnwal together hold movable assets worth Rs2,06,94,238. These include 16 bank accounts, 91 fixed deposits and Kisan Vikas Patras. 
 
 The FIR contends that FDs amounting to Rs1.27 crores were created out of the ‘kite-flying transactions’ in different accounts of the officer, his wife and her relatives who took part in complex transactions and used their names to conceal the huge illegal earnings of the officer. The suspended cop, the SVU sleuths say, used different bank accounts in his in-laws’ names to ‘route and hold his undisclosed/unaccounted assets’ to deliberately rotate the financial transactions.
 
 
