KOLKATA: Nearly 1,300 autos plying from Ultadanga to four different routes took part in a flash strike and went off roads on Monday. Things may turn worse on Tuesday with the auto opertors insisting on continuing with the strike and even hitting the street to protest against “steep police fines”.

 Rana Sarkar, a state government employee, who tried to take an auto in Ultadanga for Sovabazar, said, “I am waited for 20 minutes. The buses are so crowded that I couldn’t even step in. I don’t know how can I reach office.” Jagdish Bhunia, a   I resident on his way to Girish Park, was waiting beside Sarkar. “I wanted to take the auto to   station but I think now I have look for another option,” he said.
 
  
  
 According to sources, autos of four routes — Ultadanga to Ahiritola Ghat, Ultadanga to Sovabazar Ghat, Ultaganda to   and Ultadanga to Sovabazar — took part in Monday’s strike. A section of auto drivers blamed the police for commuters’ inconvenience. According to them, cops were disallowing them — and even slapping steep fines — to stop near the Ultadanga foot overbridge to pick passengers. They are missing out on passengers this way, they claimed.
 
 
 “Police are forcing us to stop at a far-off place where no passengers are willing to come. For example, who will walk the stretch from the foot bridge to near the railway station underpass to take an auto?” asked Bikram Sau, an auto operator.
 
 
 The auto drivers, however, are primarily riled at the steep traffic penalties. “Police are slapping Rs 3,000 fine for overloading. For us, who barely earn Rs 700-800 a day, such fines leave us with nothing. We can shell out the Rs 100 fine, but now there is no end to it. Police keep prosecuting us with Rs 300, Rs 500 and even Rs 3,000 fines,” added Akash Chowdhury, another auto driver.
 
 
 A senior police officer, however, rubbished the allegations. “The Rs 300 and Rs 500 fines are for repeat offenders. Laws are applicable to all. The Rs 3,000 fine is the recently amended penalties to prevent over-loading,” an officer said.
 
 
 
