PUDUCHERRY: Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research ( ) has been ranked first among the government medical institutions in South India, according to the National Institutional Ranking Framework ( ), 2018 evolved by the Union human resource development ministry.

 Jipmer ranked fourth among the government medical institutions in the country. The institute ranked sixth on the list that included private medical institutions.
 
 Apart from Jipmer, only one medical college from   – Mahatma Gandhi Medical College and Research Institute (MGMC & RI) – a constituent college under Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth, a deemed university – featured among top 25 medical institutions. MGMC & RI was placed 23rd on the list.
 
 AIIMS, New Delhi and Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh were ranked first and second on the list of top   in the country. Three private institutions Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, Kasturba Medical College, Manipal, Karnataka and King Georg’s Medical University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh – finished third, fourth and fifth positions respectively followed by Jipmer.
 
 NIRF nodal officer in Jipmer Ravi Kumar Chittoria said the Union HRD ministry included medical and dental colleges in the ranking exercise for the first time from this year. NIRF ranks institutions based on several parameters including research activities, publications, academics and financial status among others. It gives the highest importance to ‘research and professional practices’ (40%) while ranking the institutions.
 
 Chittoria while quoting the National board of accreditation sources said the number of private higher education institutions had enrolled for the ranking exercise this year.
 
 He said the rankings assumed significance after the Union government launched a new scheme, ‘Institutions of excellence’ to select and promote 10 public and 10 private institutions to attain global rankings.
 
 Jipmer acting director Vishnu Bhat while congratulating the faculty members and students of the institute urged them to strive hard and initiate efforts to attain the first   in the country.
 
 
