GURUGRAM: NHAI is considering the feasibility of building a turn directly from the expressway towards the  , using the adjacent  , in order to reduce the rush at the Delhi-Gurugram border. TOI sources said it has given in-principle approval for the project, though the formal order is awaited.

  
 According to   officials, the stretch in front of the infamous Satbir petrol pump, just ahead of the Rajokri flyover, leads to a narrow service lane for   headed towards Dwarka and  . The busy petrol pump, with commuters entering and exiting, is located right at the mouth of the exit leading to the service lane. The problem is further exacerbated by the air pressure booth at the corner, whose patrons spill over on to the service lane. Over the last 10 days, digging for a gas pipeline has added to the mess.
 
 Officials said the stretch has always been been a choke point, as fast flowing traffic from the expressway suddenly faces a bottleneck on the service road. “Around 70% of the traffic coming from Gurugram move towards Dwarka, making this point an important one,” said a senior police official of Delhi traffic police.
 
 In the light of the traffic mess at Sirhaul border, traffic police of both Gurugram and Delhi had approached NHAI with proposals to get approval for the turn, which has been getting worse because of regular tailbacks caused by Dwarka-bound traffic taking time to clear, leading to snarls on the Rajokri flyover. With traffic ahead not moving smoothly, the situation at the Sirhaul border was also getting worse.
 
 Gurugram police have been struggling with controlling the traffic situation at the border. NHAI also gave a warning to call off the lane diversions at the toll, and only continued with the trials after two MCD toll gates serving only commercial vehicles were reopened to general traffic yesterday.
 
 By Monday, traffic movement had greatly improved at the Sirhaul border, with free flowing traffic even during peak evening hours. “A blacktop had been laid on the stretch in front of Satbir petrol pump, which improved the situation somewhat. Today, even in peak hours, the tailbacks were cleared so fast, it didn’t reach the toll,” said ACP (traffic) Hira Singh.
 
 
 
