BENGALURU: Five-year-old Kavana R has no clue as to why is she living on a Bengaluru street for the third consecutive day on Thursday, braving chill at night, sizzling sun in the day and even a bout of rain. All that she knows is her mother is in distress.

 Kavana is among the dozens of children accompanying their mothers, who work as cooks with the state government’s midday meal scheme and are now protesting, demanding a hike in their paltry salaries.
 
 Denied entry to  , which the authorities claim has been occupied by other protesters, head cooks, cooks and assistant cooks of the   scheme are squatting on the adjacent Kalidasa Marg since Tuesday. Working for a paltry monthly honorarium of Rs 2,000-2,200, the protesters, mostly women, are demanding that it be enhanced to Rs 5,000.
 
 “Where do I leave my daughter if I come to protest here? Hence I brought her along,” said Kalavathy Rudresh, Kavana’s mother, a cook from Tumakuru. Kavana has for company 10-yearold Jayamma G, daughter of  , who has come from Harihara to join the protesters.
 
 “We have no pension benefits, provident fund or insurance. With just Rs 2,000 how do we manage? We won’t leave this place unless the government implements the promises made earlier,” said Nirmala.
 
 A chief cook is paid Rs 2,200, a cook gets Rs 2,100 and an assistant cook Rs 2,000 as honorarium.
 
 The stories from the hearths of Bisi Oota kitchens are heart-rending. “We have to brave smoke and soot as we cook mostly with firewood since no LPG is available on most days. Rice, turdal and wheat supplied to us contain worms and we spend hours every day to clean them to ensure the health of the children we feed is not compromised,” said   H from  , who has been working as a cook since the scheme’s launch in 2003.
 
 The protesting women are livid over denial of access to toilets at Freedom Park at night. Two women fainted during the protest on Thursday morning and were treated at KC General hospital.
 
 “The ambulance took to us to the hospital and we were given treatment. We were left in the lurch and had no clue on how to get back to the protest site. Given our poor finances, we somehow struggled to 
 pay for an autorickshaw,” said Mangala G, cook from Tumakuru who required medical help.
 
 
 
 
 The protest has disrupted supply of meals at government schools in several parts of Karnataka. Schools in Bengaluru though remained unaffected as the meals are supplied by Iskcon and Adamya Chethana.
 
 “There are 10 aided schools in Bengaluru south and 144 schools in Anekal that depend Bisi Oota cooks for their midday meal. There’s one cook in each of these schools and we have requested the school development monitoring committee to cooperate. We’ve made sure that there is no inconvenience caused to children,” said Ashwatha Narayana Gowda, deputy director of public instruction (DDPI), Bengaluru.
 
 
 
 
 Thousands of village assistants took out a rally from Chikka Lalbagh in Majestic to Freedom Park demanding the government consider them as Group D employees. The staff have called for an indefinite strike.
 
 They said 10,450 village assistants working with the state government for the past 40 years must be considered Group D employees. When recruited in 1977-78, they were paid Rs 100 per month and now they earn just Rs 10,000.
 
 “The state government has discriminated against village assistants despite the jobs being made permanent as per a government order in July 2007. Since then their basic salary has not been hiked,” said the officebearers of the Karnataka State Village Assistants’ Union. 
 
