MUMBAI: Braving the heat and blisters on their feet after covering a distance of 180km on foot over five days, protesting farmers from across Maharashtra reached the city on Sunday. They decided to converge at   in south Mumbai by 7am on Monday so that rush hour commuters, especially students headed for exams, are not inconvenienced. A delegation will then go to   with their list of demands, including unconditional farm loan waiver, while the rest will protest at Azad Maidan. They have decided not to withdraw the protest unless their demands are fulfilled.

 After reviewing the situation at a high-level meeting on Sunday,   said, “We are positive on the demands of the farmers. We have set up a six-member cabinet committee to discuss their demands. In view of the on-going examinations, I am sure the farmers will cooperate to help the students reach the exam centres on Monday.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Members of the   (AIKS), the farmer wing of Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPM), along with other farmers’ unions had launched the march from Nashik on Tuesday. Their demands include an unconditional waiver on loan and electricity bills; implementation of the Swaminathan Commission recommendations, including announcement of minimum support price for agriculture produces; and pension schemes for farmers. While police sources pegged the number of protesters at 15,000, unions claimed it was nearly 50,000. 
 
 Initially, the agitating farmers had planned to spend the night at Sion and start for Vidhan Bhavan on Monday morning. But late at night, they decided to resume the march after dinner and rest. A government emissary then met their leaders and persuaded them to alter their schedule. 
 
 “I had a marathon meeting with the agitating farmers ...I requested them to consider the plea of (SSC and HSC) students; they should not face hurdles while reaching exam centre. We requested the farmers to camp at Somaiya ground or alternatively reach Azad Maidan tonight (Sunday) itself, so that traffic remains clear on Monday,” water resources Girish Mahajan told TOI. The farmers accepted the second option.
 
 Ajit Navale, state secretary of AIKS, said they will leave for Azad Maidan at 2am. “Protestors are tired and will rest at Somaiya ground. We will start by 2am and reach by 7am, so that exams and traffic are not affected.” He added that a meeting with the chief minister would take place after 2pm. 
 
 Mahajan had a prolonged meeting with Kisan Sabha leaders Ashok Dhawale and Navale, and Peasants and Workers Party leader Bhai Jayant Patil on their demands. The government has been grappling with rural unrest and the issue of crop destruction due to unpredictable weather and poor rains. While the state had announced a loan waiver scheme, the implementation has been patchy. “We expect to resolve their issues on Monday itself,” Mahajan said.
 
 Meanwhile, NCP president Sharad Pawar, state Congress president Ashok Chavan, Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray and MNS chief Raj Thackeray have extended their support to the agitating farmers. 
 
 Aaditya, along with Sena minister Eknath Shinde, met Navale at Vikhroli and assured that Sena will stand by them. “We will not only support from the outside but if needed, will participate in the protest,” Aaditya told the farmers. Urging Fadnavis to not be stubborn, Chavan said, “We are with farmers, we feel that CM should accept their demands.” AAP has decided that assembly heads and hundreds of volunteers will formally extend their support to the march.
 
 
