GUWAHATI:   leaders on Saturday extended their support with investment commitments to  's bid to reposition itself from a geographically isolated state to India's launchpad to connect to the ASEAN region through the Act East policy. 

 On the inaugural session of the state's first global investors' summit, where all the country's neighbours except China - the ASEAN nations, the Bhutan-Bangladesh-Nepal region and economic powerhouse Japan - are casting their eye, in attendance were   chairman  ,   chairman N Chandrasekharan, CEO of Patanjali Acharya Balakrishnan, MD of Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd Dilip Sanghvi, CMD of Spicejet, Ajay Singh, MD of Mcleod Russel lndia Ltd, Aditya Khaitan and local industry captain, MD of Century Plyboards Ltd, Sajjan Bhajanka.
 
 Ambani announced an investment of Rs 2,500 crore in various sectors, including retail, petroleum, telecom, tourism and sports, which would open up new jobs for at least 80,000 people over the next three years.
 
 Ambani said Jio retail division's outlets will be increased from two to 40 while the number of   petrol depots will be raised to 165 from the existing 27. He also announced opening of new 4G branches in all the 145 tehsil headquarters in the state. "Assam has always been a low priority market for other telecom operators, but it is a 'Category A' market for Reliance," he added.
 
 In the tourism sector, Reliance Foundation will partner with the state government to set up a centre at an university to promote wildlife protection and eco-tourism, he added.
 
 Ambani said, "In football, ISL is a huge success in Assam. We have decided to establish a top-class football academy in partnership with the government of Assam to produce global players from the state." He added that Reliance Industries has become the largest private sector investor in the state with Rs 5,000 crore investment over the last few years, he said. 
 
 Ambani added, "Assam's development potential is limitless. In the 1950s, the state was a developed one with its per capital income more than the national average."
 
 In his speech, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said, "The summit, though a humble beginning, is a historic event in the economic growth story of Assam. We are committed to turning Assam into a hub for economic activity in the region." He called upon all investors taking part in the summit to explore investment possibilities in the state and come up with more investment ideas. "We will meet all your expectations," he promised.
 
 On the first day, the summit generated investment commitments of nearly Rs 70,000 crore. A total of 176 MoUs were signed between the state government and 176 companies for investments in oil and gas, housing, healthcare, tourism, IT, handloom and textile, education, agriculture and animal husbandry sectors. The biggest investment promises came from two giant PSUs - Rs 13,000 crore from ONGC and Rs 10,000 crore by Oil India Limited.
 
 
 
 
 
