TRICHY: The forest department will keep the butterfly conservatory open on all days during the summer vacation considering the large turnout of people over the past few days. While the park was kept closed every Tuesday for maintenance work, it will remain open throughout May. 

 There has been an average 30% increase in footfalls at the conservatory over the past few weeks. It it was receiving around 1,000 visitors on an average during weekends, the number has gone past 1,300 according to the forest department. “In fact, last Sunday saw a whopping 2,430 people turn up at the conservatory, the highest number of visitors ever, and 1,700 on Saturday,” said a forest department staffer at the butterfly conservatory. The decision on keeping the park open in June would be taken after considering the visitors’ flow. 
 
  Divisional Forest Officer D   said, “At least 10 % of people visiting Trichy may want to visit the butterfly conservatory as per rough estimates. By keeping the conservatory open, we ensure that those planning a trip to Trichy on Tuesdays are not disappointed,” she said. The maintenance work would be carried out on a daily basis an hour before its opening and after its closure to compensate for Tuesday, said the  . 
 
 The conservatory has been developed in a phased manner in Trichy so that it serves as an ideal picnic spot in the absence of notable recreational avenues. Those visiting the conservatory can have access to the 96-seater amphi theatre which was opened for the public only recently. They can have an insight into the life cycle of butterflies apart from spotting them in the park. A 30-minute audio-visual content is screened twice a day at 12 noon and 5 pm at the amphi theatre to create awareness among the visitors on conserving the environment and butterflies. A nominal fee of Rs 20 would be charged from the visitors to witness the screening. Visitors can also enrol for the day-long certificate course on butterflies at the conservatory to make their visit memorable.
 
 
