GURUGRAM: How do children get their minds around fear, or sibling rivalry, or envy? And how does a parent explain prejudice to a kid? 

 These are questions Antony Rajkumar, an advertising professional, and his wife Aarthi have been asking themselves, seeing their son and daughter grow up. Both would often wonder, “How do you communicate difficult topics to kids, and make such topics accessible and meaningful to them?”
 
 It’s in search for the answers that they came up with StoryWalker365, a   app that doesn’t just tell stories but embroiders emotions into their fabric, allowing kids to gain a better understanding of life’s complexities. Because early on, this Gurgaon couple realised, much to their disenchantment, that there’s barely any children-oriented material which is nuanced and empathetic, that educates as well as enlightens. 
 
 Over a year and a half, they have crafted stories, found voiceover artistes to narrate the stories, and created an audiovisual platform where children can enter a world that’s as genuine as the one they navigate every day, peopled by ‘characters’ with the same joys and worries they experience. “Sometimes, they need a story to make sense of the real world,” shared Antony. “Our kids deserve better, we owe it to them.”
 
 The idea was to find content with meaning, and build values and ethics into that content. “For us, stories are a medium, not an end goal,” shares Antony. So, StoryWalker365 takes children (and their  ) into the universe of Booshkata, a jungle world inhabited by creatures great and small, including a lion, lioness and their cub, and Ringo the elephant shrew (a rodent who doesn’t believe he’s small – because he’s 50 percent ‘elephant’!). Each has a story to tell.
 
 While there are many storytelling apps out there, the way StoryWalker365 has been presented – with original, values-based content and storylines that children can relate to in their daily lives, and by distinguishing between age groups – makes it unique in this space, at least in India. There’s nothing make-believe or magic about these stories.
 
 The app’s catchphrase is ‘building beautiful inside’, because there’s a larger purpose behind telling these stories. Says Antony, “We must build kids inside, not just physically. By building character, we’re building citizens of the future.” StoryWalker365 flowed from the couple’s experiences, from their conversations with other parents, and from bouncing ideas off their son Nikhil, 12, and daughter Neha, 7. The stories, and their characters, sprung from these exchanges.
 
 Presently, the app has 24 stories, each of around six minutes (a new one will be added every week). The stories slot into two categories, for kids aged between three and seven years, and for those above seven years. While the characters are similar across the categories, their treatment and presentation is, naturally, different, taking into consideration the maturity and learning abilities of the child.
 
 And where books might have sufficed, there’s a reason why Antony and Aarthi chose to go into the audio space. “Unlike when they’re watching TV, kids are actively absorbed when they’re listening to a story being told. Children need to be engaged, and we wanted to give them an experience to keep them engaged,” explained Antony. 
 
 “Parents are never far away from smartphones, and children are comfortable with them, so why fight it? Let’s make a problem into an opportunity – that, for us, was the eureka moment!”
 
 In fact, StoryWalker365 can be as helpful for parents as it is illuminating for kids, allowing mums and dads to get to grips with the maze that is everyday parenting (and giving them an opportunity to bond with their wards).
 
 Still, it was never about money. “Something else was driving us. It was almost like a dream that you’re not supposed to have.
 
 “We learnt, stumbled, and learnt some more. We never settled,” admits Antony. “I’m sort of a maverick who writes, Aarthi makes it readable and more sensible – she edits and refines the stories.”
 
 And the learnings will never end for a couple that has been on a magical journey of creation. “We’re parents first, then storytellers,” Antony insists.
 
 “We’re not talking as parents who have got it right, but who could have done better.” Because these stories seek to make mindful and empathetic citizens out of young listeners, StoryWalker365 is a labour of love that deserves to succeed.
 
 
