By: Dwaipayan Ghosh & Falguni Banerjee 

  (HOOGHLY)/MEMARI (EAST BURDWAN): Constable Amar Saha’s duties primarily include manning the VIP vehicles entering Nabanna. Constable Anil Chandra Debnath, who underwent commando training and has won accolades for his shooting abilities with the SLR, is collecting fines from owners of vehicles that have been towed away. While Ratan Roy is a sentry with Nadial police, ASI Niladri Chakraborty is taking care of desk work at the traffic cell.
 
 
  
 
 On Monday, they were given a different assignment — guarding “sensitive” polling booths across some of the most politically volatile zones in Singur and Haripal along with other parts of south Bengal.
 
 On a day when the rest of the state witnessed widespread violence, they returned home satisfied. “We are happy to end the day without allowing any violence,” said Debnath.
 
 After executing their duties at an unfamiliar territory, the Kolkata Police men, whom TOI spoke to, said the stint this year at the villages made them realize what their counterparts in Bengal Police go through. “The people here are simple, but the resources are scattered and difficult to access,” said an officer.
 
 Take the example of the constables from Nadial police station on duty at the Kolsara Primary School in East Burdwan’s Jougram. When TOI reached there, a striking force team and another QRT team had just arrived. “Some outsiders were trying to converge at the booth. I had sought help and the local police immediately assured help. Yet, it took them over 40 minutes to reach here. This is unthinkable in the remotest part of the Kolkata Port division where we work,” said an officer.
 
 The minor struggles had begun on Sunday itself. “We had left Kolkata around 8am. By evening, we were at the Singur Nanda Harimati High School. We were promised meals through the mid-day meal scheme but they began charging Rs 80 for egg curry. We were forced to make our own arrangements as the lone mosquito coil refused to burn. But the long queue you see outside has given us enough strength to complete our duty,” said an officer.
 
 “We had forgotten how to use a .303 rifle. We rarely use them in Kolkata,” quipped an ASI at Burdwan’s Jamalpur. Constable Debnath, who was on duty at Narikul Purba Junior High School, said it gave him satisfaction to represent Kolkata Police in Singur.
 
 The opposition, though, alleged that that the local police did not use Kolkata Police personnel to its potential. “I had expected that like other areas, they will post KP men at Beraberi and Bajeberia where I enjoy popular support,” said Monoranjan Malik, father of Tapasi Malik. BJP Singur candidate, Amit Koley, alleged Trinamool candidates continued to canvass openly in front of Kolkata Police personnel.
 
