BENGALURU: The five-storey, under-construction building in   was reduced to a heap of concrete, steel and dust in seconds. But some had a lucky escape even as those trapped tried to get in touch with friends outside.

 Haseena, who is from   village, Raichur district, with her husband Raja Sab on the terrace, both busy with masonry work.
 
 “My husband wanted to have tea and went down, telling me he’d back in a few minutes. Soon after, the terrace gave way. I was suddenly on a heap of disintegrating concrete and steel. I realised the debris was falling on the next building. I leaped for my life onto the terrace of the adajcent building and survived,” Haseena said.
 
 Her relief was shortlived when she rushed down to see if her husband was in the makeshift tea-shop in front of the building. He was nowhere and that’s when Haseena feared the worst. She pleaded with rescue workers to find him – only to be told that he succumbed to injuries at a nearby hospital.
 
 A wailing Haseena recalled she came to Bengaluru a few years ago and had been working in this building for the past four months. “We’d stay in this building along with other labourers from my village and a few from North Indian states. I was paid Rs 300 per day and my husband got Rs 400,” she said. Her relative   said Haseena and Raja Sab have three small children, including a daughter, who live with their grandparents in Sirivara.
 
 Rescue workers said Raja Sab was trapped under the debris that fell on the road. “He was either returning to the building or going to the tea shop when he was caught under the falling debris,” they said.
 
 Jasaram, owner of a provision store opposite the building, said, “I was inside the shop when the building crashed. There was not much noise but I noticed a cloud of dust where the building once was. I ran out and escaped. Two two-wheelers, including my own, parked in front of my store were damaged by the debris.”
 
 A neighbouring, singlestorey building housing a row of four shops was damaged completely when debris landed on it. A Bescom transformer was damaged too, disrupting power supply in the area.
 
 According to  , there were at least 22 labourers carrying out painting, carpentry and masonry work in the building when it collapsed, and only a few escaped. While the majority of workers were from Raichur, a few were from various North Indian states.
 
 Neighbours said the building initially had a basement plus two floors, till eight months ago, when construction began on the upper floors. Mayor  , who visited the spot, said, “Three people died and 14 were hospitalized.”
 
 
 
 
 Undergraduate students Arjun and Prashanth rushed to the spot when they heard about the building collapse.
 
 “We found two injured people and shifted them to a private hospital in nearby Kaikondarahalli. Four others were rushed to the same hospital in two ambulances,” Prashanth said. According to Jasaram, a youth riding on the road also came under the debris. He survived, but his scooter was damaged.
 
