NAGPUR: The 120 stalls selling a variety of handcrafted items at the ongoing Orange City Craft   at   have not been able to attract that kind of sales this event promises every year. At a media interaction between the artisans, who are national and state awardees, it was a sad story of low sales, hard bargaining by customers who are unaware of the true and intrinsic value of the   and high   of the stalls this year.

 The meet the press, which was organized to showcase the craft and skills of the artists who have come from across the country to this 10-day fair, turned into a forum where the craftsmen came up with their grievances in the presence of the director of SCZCC, EM Sajid.
 
 Smarting over the dirt cheap rates at which buyers are pegging the handwoven, world-acclaimed Pashmina shawls, Nasir Ahmad Mir from Kashmir said, “Buyers are quoting absurd prices like Rs 300 for a shawl that is priced at Rs 2,500.” Lack of awareness and appreciation for these handcrafted items has struck national awardee Debrath De too who is selling hand-embroidered Kantha saris and stoles. “I have fixed prices at my showroom. Here I am already selling at a 30% discount still people are complaining of high prices,” he said stung by the allegation that stall owners are charging arbitrarily.
 
 This is the 25th edition of the craft mela which draws huge footfalls and is extremely popular with Nagpurians. “The event gets good publicity so we are eager to come here,” said national awardee Harish Kumar Soni from Tikamgarh in Madhya Pradesh, who has set up a stall of bell metal artefacts. “But the rentals at Rs 25,000 are very high and this year the sales have not even covered our cost of transportation and travel,” he said pointing out that SCZCC does not make stay arrangements for craftsmen. SCZCC offers a 20% discount on stall rentals to national awardees, 15% to national certificate holders and 10% to state awardees.
 
 This maximum rentals at Rs 40,000 are for terracotta and crockery stalls. “Terracotta is a dying art and these cultural centers should make an effort to promote it by giving concessions,” said Dilip Kumar, terracotta craftsmen and a BFA graduate from Haryana. “National awardees should be given a platform to give out information about the craft,” he added.
 
 Negating the complaint about low footfalls, Sajid said that on January 14 nearly one lakh people visited the fair as per the entry ticket sales. “But I do agree that sales can improve and better prices can be fetched by spreading awareness about the uniqueness of these items,” he observed. But many officials of the SCZCC agree that a slew of exhibitions held ahead of the craft mela have affected footfalls and sales this year.
 
 
