SANGRUR: The Sangrur police on Monday arrested a man for registering a false complaint wherein he had alleged attempt on his life.

 Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) M S Sidhu said police had registered a case in November 2017 year under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC and Section 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at Moonak police station on a complaint filed by  , a resident of Maniya village. He had alleged that around six unidentified persons had fired at him outside the main gate of his house and a bullet had hit him in his left thigh.
 
 In his complaint, he had stated that at around 6.30 pm on November 22, 2017, he was standing at the gate of his new house when six men in an SUV pulled over and fired at him. As the cops started their investigations, it slowly emerged that the incident narrated by the complainant had never occurred and that he had concocted the story after he accidentally hit himself with an   bought by him.
 
 SSP Sidhu said Kuldeep was practicing with illegal weapons at his fields when he accidentally shot himself in the thigh. Knowing that he could be   for possessing an   Kuldeep concocted the whole story and hid the weapon, the officer said.
 
 Sidhu said during interrogations, the investigators spotted inconsistencies in Kuldeep’s statement when they grilled him around the contradictions that had emerged in his statement and he finally revealed what exactly had happened on November 22 last year. Later, the cops also recovered the .315 bore pistol from Kuldeep’s possession.
 
 Following the revelations, the cops booked him under Section 182 (false information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) of the IPC. During investigations, it also emerged that a liquor contractor who operates in Tohana town of Haryana had got a case registered against Kuldeep under sections 365 (abduction), 342 (illegal confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 323 (causing grievous hurt), 148 (rioting) and 149 (unlawful assembly), and he wanted to take revenge for which he had bought the illegal firearm.
 
 
