CHANDIGARH: Amid unconfirmed reports of intelligence agencies advising the postponement of   president Amit Shah's rally in Jind on February 15 in face of challenge by Jat community members, the Union home department on Friday reviewed the situation with Haryana home secretary and the director general of police (DGP) at New Delhi. In a related development, Haryana chief minister   invited the delegates of   (AIJASS) to New Delhi to discuss their demands and to pursue them to withdraw their call for a parallel rally in Jind the same day. 

 Sources said the meeting would be held before noon and senior officials of Haryana police department and from the advocate general's officer too had been summoned to Delhi.
 
 Accompanied by DGP B S Sandhu, IG (CID) A K Rao and other senior officials, Haryana home secretary S S Prasad briefed the Union home department about the preparations for the Jind rally while asking for more forces.
 
 DGP Sandhu said the Centre had assured to provide 90 more companies of paramilitary forces for deployment on all routes leading to the rally venue in Jind on February 15. "We are fully prepared as far as the law and order situation is concerned. Our officers are also in touch with certain leaders. We have been making an appeal to them to ensure that they carry out their protests in peacefully," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Anil Jain, BJP's in charge of Haryana affairs, on Saturday visited Jind and chaired a meeting of senior party leaders to review the arrangements of the programme.
 
 Soon after the meeting,   president   said the rally would be held as per schedule. "This is a programme of the organization. People have grudges with government not with the party. We are confident that it will be the most successful rally of the state," he said at Jind.
 
 Notably, soon after announcement of the Jind rally, AIJASS also announced to have a tractor-trailer rally in Jind on February 15. At the same time, INLD too announced the protests to oppose Shah's rally. INLD leader   had advised Shah to postpone his visit as it would create law and order issue in the state.
 
 
