The big picture is all good news for India’s economy. Despite costly hits from bungled implementation of demonetization and the new GST regime, the economy continues to surge. The Economist says national growth is “near to full throttle”, while ranking the country comfortably in the lead of “world’s fastest-expanding big economy” ahead of China. This is icing on the cake of two decades of steady expansion which lifted immense numbers of people to better lives. According to the World Bank’s Global Monitoring Report, it is India that contributed the most to global poverty reduction over the past decade. From 2008-2011 alone, 140 million Indians escaped extreme privation. Zoom more closely into the details however, and things become considerably more complicated. Thirty per cent of the most impoverished people in the world continue to be Indians. Even more worrying is the rapid skewing of most economic gains into the hands of a tiny section of the population that is already hugely wealthy. According to the World Inequality Report 2018, ever since deregulation of the economy was kickstarted in the 1980s, just 0.1% of earners have “captured” more economic gains than the entire bottom 50% of the population.  Meanwhile, the “middle classes” (around 40% of the population) have seen very little change in status over all that time. All this is contrary to what was achieved in India in its first three decades of independence. All through those years, the bottom 50% of the national population experienced faster income growth than the national average, while inequality was significantly reduced. Co-director of the World Inequality Lab at the Paris School of Economics (which produces the annual report) Lucas Chancel says “it is possible to combine high growth with low inequalities”.  To pick just one example, the citizens of Bangladesh live longer than Indians. Their children have the lowest mortality rates and levels of malnourishment in the subcontinent, while Bangladeshi adults have the highest percentage of stable jobs (and women have the highest average incomes) in the region. Going by these numbers, it is much better for the average person to be born in ostensibly poor Bangladesh than in India with all its gaudy growth numbers. Whatever the ills and issues regarding China’s policy choices, there is no doubt a majority of its citizens have experienced a leap into global competitiveness. A few months ago, World Bank president Jim Yong Kim accurately described the scale of Chinese achievement over two generations as “one of the great stories in human history”. With its steady investments in education and healthcare, and continuous recalibration to the needs of the global marketplace, the country has lifted 800 million people out of destitution since 1990.  Putting it most diplomatically, the World Bank president says, “India is the world’s fastest growing economy and also home to 26% of the global extreme poor. This means that India has a great opportunity to make strong and sustained inroads to reducing poverty and to help lead the world in ending extreme poverty by 2030.” The writer is a widely published photographer and author. The views expressed are personal.