KANNUR: The police team investigating the three murders in a family at Padannakkara near   in the district took the statement of the people connected to the accused,  , and they will again question them in detail. 

 According to police, they questioned many people associated with her, including some relatives, by collecting the call details of her cellphone, but as of now no one else seems to have any role in the poisoning of her parents and daughter, said the investigating officers.
 
 "She used to get rat poison from the nearby shop with the help of a local autorickshaw driver but he had no information as to why she bought it and he thought that she wanted to get rid of the rats," said an investigating officer.
 
 They said her former life partner,   native  , has been told to appear before them to get details about their past life. 
 
 Soumya had told police that it was the torture by Kishore, with whom she lived for a few years as his partner, without any legal marriage, was the reason for her change in mindset that later took her to wrong paths.
 
 "Though she claims that no one else has any role in the poisoning, the local residents feel that there is possibly someone else behind her and hence we are questioning her from all angles and also the people associated with her are being questioned to know the truth," said an officer, who hinted that a crime branch investigation could not be ruled out.
 
 Though Soumya maintained relationship with a few youths, she apparently did not maintain any emotional bond. At the same time, following the deaths of her parents and daughter in quick succession, she had played emotional drama to prevent autopsy, wihch was revealed by her sister, said police. So the statement of the sister would also be taken, on Friday, said police.
 
 It was on April 25 that the police got her in custody for four days after she was produced in the CJM court in Thalassery, following her arrest after it was found that the mysterious deaths of her parents and daughter were actually murders. After detailed interrogation, she will be produced in the court on April 28.
 
 
