PATNA: The ruling   and JD (U) do not seem to be on the same page over the issue of recent communal clashes in the state.

 A day after a BJP delegation submitted a two-page memorandum to state DGP K S Dwivedi, accusing the administration of acting in a partisan manner against members of the majority community in the aftermath of the communal clashes in the state, the JD (U) on Saturday said the Nitish Kumar government would never compromise with communalism.
 
 “BJP has raised certain issues with the DGP. Investigations are on and action will be taken against those found responsible. However, one thing is clear that CM Nitish Kumar will never compromise with communalism, come what may,” JD (U) spokesperson and MLC Sanjay Singh said.
 
 State industries minister Jai Kumar Singh, who is from JD (U), said the government would neither implicate any innocent person nor spare the accused. “As far as BJP’s allegations are concerned, senior police officers will investigate the matter,” the minister told reporters here.
 
 On Friday, the CM had said in Rohtas that “love, peace and goodwill” were essential for ensuring welfare of all, and cautioned people against attempts to cause social strife.
 
 Two days back, the state government had released Rs 36.13 lakh as compensation for people injured and assets, including a mosque, damaged in communal clashes during   celebrations in Bhagalpur, Aurangabad, Nawada, Nalanda, Sheikhpura and Samastipur districts.
 
 Union minister Ashwini Choubey’s son Arjit Shashwat, who was charged with instigating communal violence at Nathnagar in Bhagalpur district on the first day of ‘Vikarm Samvat’ to commemorate Hindu New Year on March 17, had been arrested by police from outside a temple here on April 1. Two other BJP functionaries were also arrested in Samastipur and Aurangabad districts in connection with clashes during Ram Navami festivities.
 
 It is in this regard that a BJP delegation comprising party’s state vice-president Devesh Kumar, chief whip in the state assembly Arun Kumar Sinha, MLA Sanjiv Chaurasia and media incharge Pankaj Singh met the DGP on Thursday.
 
 “In districts like Aurangabad, Nalanda and Samastipur, the majority community resorted to aggression only upon provocative acts by anti-social elements from the minority community. However, in the aftermath of the incidents of violence during Ram Navami, those belonging to the majority community were arrested in large numbers while the administration maintained a soft attitude towards the minorities,” the BJP memorandum read.
 
 State’s main opposition parties RJD and Congress, on the other hand, took a dig at ruling NDA, claiming that the alliance was set to fall apart. “BJP is targeting whom by submitting the memorandum to DGP, who functions under the home department headed by the CM? There seems to be a clear rift in the ruling alliance,” acting president of Bihar Pradesh   Committee Kaukab Quadri said.
 
 RJD’s Shivchandra Ram said the NDA government in the state would survive only for a few days. 
 
 
