LUCKNOW: Of the total Rs 4.28 lakh crore investment   inked during UP investors’ summit, Rs 20,000- crore defence corridor project is the most ambitious and promising one. With a capacity to generate 2.5 lakh jobs, it can ring in development in the parched Bundelkhand region.

 In order to speed up work on defence corridor, chief minister   Adityanath and defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman visited   on April 12 for spot inspection and held meetings to decide strategy for plan implementation.
 
  
  
 Private manufacturers and   in defence production had been called for interaction and Sitharaman and CM Yogi invited them to set up units in the corridor.
 
 Yogi believes that the corridor will transform the socioeconomic condition of Bundelkhand from where locals migrate in search of livelihood. “It will also reduce defence import bill and make us self-reliant in defence production,” the CM said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Anoop Chandra Pandey said that acquisition of land for the defence corridor would not be a problem.
 
 ‘Project to boost eco devpt in other dists’
 
 For the proposed project, details of which are available with TOI, the government plans to acquire nearly 3,000 hectares of land in Bundelkhand . “Farmers would readily sell their land for the project in lieu of compensation and jobs to them and their family members,” he added.
 
 Pandey said that units in the different clusters of proposed defence corridor are likely to generate direct employment for 2.5 lakh people.
 
 A consultant has already been engaged to prepare a pre-feasibility report on the project and defence officers from Central government would start interactions in Jhansi with local manufacturers in the next 15 days, said Pandey. Most of the units would come up from private sector, he added.
 
 The corridor would also boost economic activity in its nodes, Aligarh, Agra, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur and Lucknow, which will play a major role in supporting manufacturing with supply of raw material and required manpower.
 
 “I feel this is first major attempt since independence to boost economic activity in Bundelkhand,” said Manoj Kumar Agarwal, professor and dean of economics department, Lucknow University.
 
 Earlier, the Congress government in 1980s had constituted a  , and the UPSIDC and PICUP had announced incentives to investors for setting up units in Bundelkhand, but had failed.
 
