ZIRAKPUR: Everybody wants to inhale fresh air in the morning as well as in the evening hours while taking a stroll, but the scenario at the Highland Marg gives a different picture as the   (MC) has made a temporary   on the Highland Marg which has made lives of over 500 families hell.

 There are more than seven housing societies at the entire stretch and the foul smell travels with the wind. Three societies including Ansal Woodburry Apartments, Aastha Society and Asstha Apartments are 4-6 metres away from the dumping ground. Davinder Joshi, 56, vice-president of Ansal Woodburry Society, said, “Living here has become a hell for us. Foul smell throughout the day as well as during the night has made our lives miserable.”
 
 Gurwinder Kaur, a resident of Riverdale Society, said, “I want to relax at home after office, but foul smell all around the society is creating nightmares. Residents at the Highland Marg were furious on Saturday morning. They gathered near the garbage dumping place. Residents also met the sanitary workers and told them to not to dump garbage as it is not a garbage dumping place.
 
 Residents told TOI that local sweepers had made this place a garbage dumping place since garbage of all societies including the Pabhat and Bhabhat villages also get dumped here.
 
 “We have suggested to the MC officials as well as to the   ( ). In our suggestions, we have told the officials to place large dustbins at different places and collect the garbage from there to take it directly to the solid waste management plant in Lalru. Local villagers and sanitary workers have become habitual of throwing garbage at this place and this place should be cleaned and a wall outside the empty plot needed to be raised with immediate effect, said residents.
 
 Residents also told that not only foul smell, but fly and mosquito menace is another major problem. When contacted Chief Sanitary Inspector, Rajinder Singh, he said, “I am aware of the problem. There was some internal problem with the private company we have a tie-up with. We have a meeting with the firm on Wednesday and the problem would be sorted out by the coming week. We will pick all the garbage from the garbage dumping place and will clean the entire land. The problem would be sorted out. I have instructed all sanitary workers to pick garbage from the door-to-door collection point and drop it directly to the the plant in Lalru.”
 
 
