KOCHI: With several major IT companies cutting down on recruitments from many of the engineering campuses in  , the colleges are now looking at   (BPO) firms to ensure that their students get a job soon after the course.

 However, unlike the IT companies that is offering increased salary this year compared to earlier years, the salary offered by BPO firms is as low as Rs 12,000 to Rs 13,000. Though not encouraged in engineering campus in the past, now faced with bleak job opportunities in the changing economic scenario, they are welcoming whoever comes to the campus with a job offer.
 
 
 “Major IT companies have gone to only limited number of campuses and where they have gone, they have cut down on the number of jobs offered. Startups have shown interest. But even as they interview 300 to 400 students, they only give offer letter to two to three students. The BPO firms are coming to recruit students in large numbers and many are accepting the job offer, even as they try to get a better job offer in an engineering company,” said  , vice-chairman of Consortium of Technical Institutes for Placement Services, Kerala and head (corporate relation) of  , Kolencherry. Engineering colleges said that while the cream get offers from good IT firms, it is those with poor academic performance who must settle for a job in the BPO sector. “Though all the students do appear for an interview in a BPO firm, only 10 % to 15 % accept the job offer,” said Mahendra K S, placement officer, KMEA College of Engineering. However, to get a job in BPO, the student needs to be good in spoken English along with communication skills.
 
 Most placement officers said that number of companies coming for campus placement has increased, the number of students who have been offered job has gone down. “So far 60 % students have got placement. Though this is a down from 75 % last year, the pay package has increased for many from Rs 3.5 lakh per annum to Rs 6.5 lakh per annum. It is IT and computer science students who are in demand,” said Biju Paul, placement officer,  .
 
 The companies are looking for students with specific skills and advanced training in Java, Android, IOS is an added advantage. “They are not really interested in hiring an engineering graduate whom they have to train. They want students with skills,” added Paul.
 
 Also to familiarize their students with the industry, colleges are promoting internship programme generally after the third year. “But even they must clear a test conducted by the company for being selected for internship,” added Joy.
 
 “We encourage all the companies that come to our campus for campus placement. Already 50% students have got jobs and we expect that before the results another 20 % will also be employed,” said James Varghese, faculty in-charge, placement of engineering students at Cochin University of Science and Technology.
 
 
