KOLKATA: Age is no bar for finding love, as was evident at a companionship meet in the city, where eleven   came together in search of a  .

 
 The senior citizen matrimony and companionship meet was organised on Sunday by   at Calcutta Sports Journalists Club.
 
 One of the participants, a woman in her mid-60s, said she had been running her business successfully since her divorce from her husband in the late 1970s but there is "nothing more to look forward to" in her life.
 
 "I am looking for someone who can love me unconditionally as a friend, someone I could rely on"" the woman, who did not wish to be named, said.
 
 Another woman, a retired school teacher, said she wanted to be with someone with a progressive outlook.
 
 "My son does not ask about my whereabouts. A true life-long friend can provide me with the much needed security and solace," she said.
 
 Amitava Desarkar, the founder-secretary of Anubandh Foundation said the project was an attempt to bring cheer to aged singletons, who often fall victim to depression. Most of the participants favoured live-in relationships over marriage, Desarkar said.
 
 "The void in their lives life, after retiring from a job, can sometimes make them miserable. They want a company, a friend who would support them in difficult times - be it in a marriage or a live-in," he said.
 
 Desarkar said 40 other persons, both men and women, had applied for Sunday's meet but backed out at the last moment.
 
 "Many people do not want to be sighted at an event like this because they are skeptical about the reactions of people around them. We are sure they will try and connect with us on Facebook," Desarkar said.
 
 The participants had to submit their age certificate, stipulating that they were above 50 years. Each of them also submitted a copy of the death certificate of their spouses or a divorce document and a signed declaration of his or her marital status.
 
 The NGO will also soon organise a 'Togetherness Tour' to an outstation destination for interested senior citizens, the founder-secretary of the NGO said.
 
 "The members could find out about each other and bond well during the trip," he added. 
 
