HYDERABAD:The Telangana government has warned all   of dire consequences, in case they violate the government's status quo order on fee hike for the academic year 2018-19. This follows media reports about some schools dishonouring the state's directive. 

 On January 4, following objections raised over the Prof Tirupathi Rao committee's recommendations on school fee hike, the principal secretary   had declared status quo on the issue until the government examined the report from various aspects, including legal. The order brought no relief to parents as many schools continued to charge excess fee in violation of the instructions. 
 
 In a recent order issued to all school managements, regional joint directors and district education officers, the principal secretary (education) has now warned all schools of strict action, if found violating the norms. Citing provisions from the   (Regulations of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983, Acharya stated, "The instructions issued by the government have to be implemented by all the schools in this regard. Any violation in this regard would invite penalties as mentioned under Section 9 of this Act," adding that it would mean "withdrawal of permission and recognition also." 
 
 Earlier, the school management associations had submitted a plea to the school education department stating that they were unable to maintain status quo as their expenditures were on the rise. Citing that the government order was issued after the conclusion of the admission process, they argued that would proceed with charging the revised fee. The principal secretary rejected the plea stating that it was "untenable". 
 
 Rejecting their plea, the government stated: "The plea by the school managements that the admission process started and that they already communicated the fee structure to the parents and admissions are closing and therefore, they will proceed with their own fees is absolutely unjustifiable and untenable." 
 
 The notice further read: "Just as the admission process started on January 2 and the applications were being received, the government issued instructions on January 4. The   have to be finalised by publishing the final list on January 12 after which only, the   would arise. Hence, this plea is unacceptable."
 
 Principal secretary Ranjeev Acharya declared status quo on the issue until the government examined the report from various aspects, including legal
 
