THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: There will be 4,619 less engineering seats in the state in the 2018-19 academic year, compared to the total number of seats sanctioned by the   (AICTE) across the spectrum last year.

 
 The 155 engineering colleges affiliated with the   together have 54,225 seats this year, compared to the figure sanctioned by AICTE last year — 58,844. The dip in the number of seats is the direct result of various colleges, especially in the self-financing sector, surrendering their courses for want of students.
 
 
  
  
 
 According to statistics, 40% of engineering seats in colleges in the state remained vacant during the last academic year. Every year, the number of vacant seats rise by 5% in the state for the past few years, whereas nationally there were 45% unfilled seats last year. The actual number of seats to be available in engineering colleges is expected to come down further this year as the colleges seldom prefer to seek the affiliating university’s permission for offering all the courses sanctioned by AICTE. Though the sanctioned strength was 58,844 last year, the colleges together sought permission from KTU for filling only 52, 163 seats.
 
 Amajor development this year is that the AICTE, despite the state government’s strong appeal against sanctioning new courses and colleges, has sanctioned as many as 12 new courses in 10 engineering colleges. The council, against the wish of the state government, has also sanctioned four new polytechnic colleges, four pharmacy colleges and one hotel management course in the state.
 
 “It’s a paradox that College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram, and Government Engineering College, Thrissur, applied for new courses and promptly received sanction for the same, even as the state government had been advocating before the AICTE the need for a moratorium on new courses and colleges in engineering sector in the state,” sources said.
 
 Similarly, the AICTE has given approval for opening of four new polytechnic colleges, braving the state government demand against new polytechnic colleges in private sector. It’s another setback for the state government as the AICTE denied approval to two polytechnic colleges, in   and Kannur, in government sector, purportedly for want of adequate infrastructure facilities.
 
 
