HYDERABAD: Industries minister   on Saturday sought help of the scientific community to talk to farmers and explain to them that the proposed world’s largest pharma city near Hyderabad will not cause pollution.

 At a meeting of the Telangana Academy of Sciences, the minister said it was understandable that farmers do have apprehensions about pollution because of what has happened in Patancheru, Jeedimetla and other places.
 
 “But the state government has taken enough measures for zero discharge of effluents. The world’s best practices will be adopted to prevent pollution,” he said.
 
 The minister urged the scientists to interact with villagers from nine villages to dispel any doubts that they may have about the possibility of the pharma city causing pollution. The pharma city will come up on 19,000 acres.
 
 Minister KT Rama Rao participated in the programme of the Telangana Academy of Sciences’ ‘Presentation of Young Scientist Awards-2017’ programme at   (IICT) campus in Hyderabad.
 
 The minister also said that the world’s largest pharma city that has been planned will give India a competitive edge over China and other countries in manufacture of bulk drugs.
 
 Explaining to scientists about the gigantic Kaleshwaram project that is being constructed to irrigate one crore acre of land in Telangana, K T Rama Rao also urged the scientific community to provide suggestions on the crop patterns that will have to be adopted by farmers. He explained that in the last four years, one lakh crores had been allocated for irrigation projects in state. In this year’s budget alone, Rs 25,000 cr had been allocated and another Rs 12,000 cr would be got from other sources to build large dams, barrages and reservoirs. “The idea is to utilise all the 1,200 TMC water which we are entitled to from the Krishna and Godavari.
 
 The minister said as of now 20 lakh acres is under irrigation and once the projects are completed, in the next five years another 80 lakh acres will be provided water for irrigation. KTR urged scientists to come up with research which has commercial applications.
 
