PATNA: Former director of   (AIIMS), Patna, Girish Kumar Singh, was arrested without approval from   of Crime Investigation Department (CID) of Bihar Police, DGP K S Dwivedi has told the Patna high court in his reply to the supplementary show-cause notice served on him.

 
 In his reply about more than a month back, the DGP has stated that Singh was arrested on the oral order of the then IG (weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav, who had not even waited for the court order for arrest warrant against Singh.
 
 TOI has a copy of the DGP’s reply to the HC. A division bench of justices Ravi Ranjan and S Kumar is hearing a contempt petition against Yadav for arresting Singh without order and despite a Patna court order for no coercive action against him. The matter will come up for hearing on June 25 and Yadav’s counsel P K Shahi is to submit Yadav’s reply on the DGP’s submission.
 
 Singh retired from AIIMS-P on October 31, 2016 and had reached Patna from Lucknow for a farewell function hours before his arrest from AIIMS-P premises on November 14, 2016 on the basis of an FIR lodged against him and Dr Prem Prakash Gupta with SC/ST police station in Patna by pharmacology department’s former senior resident doctor Ajay Chaudhary on October 22, 2016. Ajay had accused Singh and Gupta of harassing, abusing and thrashing him. The high court had quashed the FIR on November 15, 2017. 
 
 Dwivedi mentioned in his reply that Singh had submitted a representation before the then DGP on October 26, 2016 against Yadav. The representation was forwarded to the ADG (CID).
 
 ADG (CID) on October 31, 2016 ordered the DIG (crime) to supervise the case for impartial investigation and appointed inspector Ram Shobhit Mochi as the investigating officer (IO), instead of sub-inspector (SI) Kamlesh Prasad Singh, the DGP informed the court.
 
 Clarifying to HC, Dwivedi stated that DIG (crime) is not under IG (weaker section) and his chain of command runs through IG (crime) to ADG (CID). The DIG (crime), after supervision, had issued some instructions, including arrest order. However, his supervision report was not approved at senior level, which included IG (crime) and ADG (CID) according to the established office procedure of CID. Thus, Singh was arrested without approval of DIG (crime)’s supervision report by ADG (CID), he submitted before the court.
 
 On the day of arrest, a station diary entry was made by Mochi at 3.30pm that he had received oral order from IG (weaker section) for arresting Singh. DIG (crime) had submitted his supervision report on November 8, 2016, but ADG (CID) did not agree with the report after its review and recording DIG’s comment on December 28, 2016.
 
 
