KOLKATA: For the first time an   will offer a post-doctoral non-residential certificate programme. IIT-Kharagpur (Kgp) is rolling out the course for candidates holding a PhD under its Certificate of Excellence in Research (CER) programme. It will be open to professionals with doctorate degrees in India and abroad, working in industry or research institutions. In India, all such programmes are residential. 

 The country's premier technology institute wants to offer the course twice each year, on the lines of doctoral fellowship, in January and July. CER programme faculty in-charge   said, "Candidates will need to complete the post-doctoral certificate programme between two and six years. "Each year, the enrolled students will have to visit IIT-Kharagpur campus only once, to inform us about the progress. Accordingly, the students will be graded." The cost of the course will be Rs 20,000 per semester. The candidates, however, will receive no stipend during the course.
 
 To earn the certificate, students will have to furnish two papers in a very renowned journal co-authored by the mentor from IIT-Kharagpur.
 
 This non-residential programme will be open for research in all domains with faculty experts in the Institute. 
 
 PK Das, dean of postgraduate research, said, "Some of the research areas would be digital convergence, advanced manufacturing, medical technology and affordable healthcare, transportation technologies, innovative infrastructure, geoscience for future of earth, information and communication technology."
 
  director Partha Pratim   said, "This is the first of its kind initiative in India, possibly Asia, for any academic institution to facilitate trained researchers with the opportunity to contribute to structured research programme and join back academics."
 
 The engagement will be based on a research proposal prepared jointly by the researcher and a host faculty at IIT Kharagpur and subsequently approved by a technical review panel at the institute. The certification can be availed even if the researcher continues his professional commitments. The candidate will have access to the institute's facilities like experimentation and computation labs and library.
 
 The enrolment for the programme will start in July 2018. The certificate will be conferred at the convocation.
 
 Chakrabarti added this will be a unique platform that will allow the researchers to fulfil the desire to remain connected with advanced research and be recognized while continuing her/his professional commitments. It will also bring in industry knowledge and practical solutions in academic research.
 
 
