Vijayawada: Residents of Krishna Lanka are gearing up to protest the poor quality of the   constructed across Hyderabad-Macchilipatnam highway in the area. Further, the locals, who have been demanding proper connectivity with the city, have asked the government to construct at least two more subways.

 When the highway widening works were take up from Kanaka Durga temple to Kanaka Durga Varadhi, the government constructed a subway at the fire station junction till the bridge on Bandar Canal. That subway was the only feeder road from Vaaradhi to Pandit Nehru Bus Station Junction and now locals are demanding the government construct three more junctions at the subway.
 
 “Around two lakh residents of Krishna Lanka are facing problems because of the unplanned works taken by National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). Our connectivity to the city has been totally lost. Person coming to Krishna Lanka from St. Ann's Hospital bidge have to uselessly cover an extra kilometre,” said M Maheshwar Reddy a resident of Nallagate centre in Krishna Lanka.
 
 “Highway expansion works were taken up in a hurry during Krishna Pushkarams and the state government’s poor vision is for everyone to see,” said Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee officials spokesperson Kolanukonda Shivaji. Being a resident of Krishnalanka area I am facing problems with huge traffic as officials have closed all the ways and we are travelling for almost two kilometres to enter feeder road, he said.
 
 District administration and civic body should consider the problems faced by locals and provide proper connectivity, he demanded.
 
 Meanwhile, locals are not happy with the quality of feeder road developed by officials. “Feeder road which constructed two months ago has become patchy. Poor quality works have affected the road margins and manholes have become dangerous in parts. Accidents have become prevalent on this road with patches and no official is responding on this,” says Communist Party of India City Secretary Donepudi Shankar.
 
 
