LUDHIANA: Checking WhatsApp and Facebook on mobile phone during class will ring in trouble for teachers of government schools.

 Krishan Kumar, secretary education, Punjab, has issued directions to the district education officers (DEOs) in the state asking to ensure that teachers don’t use mobile phones during school hours.
 
 He has also asked the local officers to send a report about teachers who are caught phubbing in school.
 
 The order released by the secretary education said teachers in government schools use mobile phones and keep track of social media during school hours. They are often found online on WhatsApp.
 
 With the board exams coming up, the education department has taken the matter seriously to ensure that teachers invest maximum time on students.
 
 Following the order of secretary education, the district education department has further released directions to all school principals and head teachers to implement it with immediate effect.
 
 Deputy district education officer (secondary)   said, “The issue of teachers using mobile phones to keep track of social media during school hours has often been brought into our notice. Every time teachers are given warnings, but the situation remains the same. But now following the order of the secretary education, we have directed all school heads and principal to curb the use of mobile phone during school hours.”
 
 Sharma said, “The school heads will visit classes to ensure implementation of directions. Besides different teams would carry out surprise checks for the same. The school heads have been asked to report to the education department if a teacher is found guilty. In case the head teacher or principal fails to report to the department and the checking squad catches any teacher using mobile phone, action would be taken against the school head.”
 
 
 
 
 Considering the problem of phubbing, in-charge at Channan Devi Government Girls High School, Salem Tabri,   Kaur had started keeping mobile phones of entire staff with her in the office.
 
 Amarjeet said, “I used to keep mobile phones of all teachers with me in the office. However after 15-20 days, the teachers started objecting to it, saying that at times they have urgent calls to make. However, now I have asked them to keep mobile switched off during class.”
 
 Box: Teachers oppose the move
 
 On the other hand, teacher unions have opposed the orders saying that they mostly use mobile phones to answer calls of the education department. Moreover, in primary schools which don’t have computers, the teachers use internet on their phones to send reports.
 
 Sukhdhir Singh Sekhon, president,   (Sekhon), said, “The primary schools don’t have computers, therefore teachers use mobile internet to send daily reports of mid-day meal and other necessary reports sought by the education department every day. The department should provide all facilities to government schools before issuing such orders.”
 
 
 
 
 Phubbing is an act of ignoring someone while paying attention to your mobile phones
 
 
