NEW DELHI/KOLKATA/GUWAHATI: The Guwahati police on Thursday lodged several FIRs against Bengal chief minister  , who voiced concern on Wednesday about Bengalis in Assam after their non-inclusion in the first phase of the National Register of Citizenship ( ).

 The FIRs lodged by police in a BJP-ruled state against Banerjee coincided with the BJP-led central government denying her charge in the Lok Sabha as “completely baseless”. 
 
 On Wednesday, Banerjee had warned BJP-ruled Assam not to use the NRC as a ploy to drive away Bengalis from Assam, in an apparent re-run of the “Bongal kheda” campaign in Assam in the 1960s and 70s. On Thursday, in an FIR, advocate Tailendra Nath Das said the CM’s speech had inflammatory material that may prom-ote enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, in the state of Assam. “Thereby, she had committed an offence of ‘hate speech’ under Section 153 (A) IPC,” said Das in the FIR. Advocate Bijon Mahajan added Banerj-ee’s speech was tantamount to contempt of Supreme Court.
 
 A separate FIR was also filed with the police by Kailash Sarma, a city resident, demanding police action against her.
 
 The matter resonated in Parliament too. Trinamool MPs protested outside the House, and senior party MP Saugata Roy moved an adjournment motion during zero hour, evoking a sharp response from Union home minister  . “Out of 3.29 crore applications, only 1.9 crore have been included in the National Register of Citizens by the Assam government,” Roy said, referring to Banerjee’s statement. “And we fear, as our chief minister has already said, this is a conspiracy to drive out Bengalis from Assam. We want them to be allowed to stay in Assam. They are normal citizens. This is a conspiracy. The name of Badruddin Ajmal, an MP, has been eliminated. The Bengal chief minister has already mentioned this, that this is a conspiracy.” 
 
 In an immediate response, Singh said: “The allegations that this is an attempt to drive away people from Assam is completely baseless. The NCR work is going on under Supreme Court supervision. The first draft has 1.9 crore people in it. Even the court has said that there is nothing to be concerned about. If due to some reasons some names are left out, they can approach the tribunal, which will enquire into the cases in depth.”
 
 In Kolkata, Trinamool scoffed at the FIRs. “Mamata Banerjee cannot be intimidated by such threats. Those who have filed the FIRs against her are living in a fool’s paradise. I hope good sense will prevail,” said Trinamool secretary-general  . “Such police cases and FIRs won’t be able to stop Mamata Banerjee and the TMC from fighting for the cause of Bengalis. We have seen such tactics to drive out Bengalis from Assam. If Bengalis are in danger, Mamata Banerjee and the TMC won’t sit idle,” said Chatterjee, the state parliamentary affairs minister.
 
 The Bengal   had mixed reactions. Heading into election season in Bengal, state BJP president Dilip Ghosh was cautious in his response to Banerjee’s statements. “Nothing of that sort is being done. Such allegations are made just to reap political dividends,” he said. BJP national secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, however, reacted aggressively. “Over the years, Bengal’s political class has always benefited from uncontrolled infiltration. While this posed a risk to people, political parties chose to reap dividends. Banerjee should focus her attention back home. Her statements are an insult to the Indian Constitution and Supreme Court,” he said.
 
