CHENNAI: Amid rising concerns over shrinking urban green space, the Chennai   ( ) has sought suggestions from the public to reclassify a   and reserved forest   on the city’s peripheries for a   and a residential building. 

 While the Semmenchery police have applied for permission to convert a water body spread over 24,000sqft to set up a permanent station, a resident has sought about 3,800sqft of reserved forest land at Nedungundram village under Kattankulathur panchayat union in Kancheepuram to construct a residential building, say details published on the portal of the CMDA. The planning authority’s notice, seeking objections, suggestions and representations from the various stakeholders, including members of the piblic, has triggered outrage among environmental activists, with many charging that it is in blatant violation to the existing rules.
 
 K Mohanraj, an environmental activist, said there were court orders against reclassification/conversion of water bodies for any purpose. “But, the pertinent question is when the government agencies themselves resort to such violations what will be their locus standi in protecting the environment,” he asked. Two years ago, a three-judge bench of the Madras high court had ruled that the Tamil Nadu government could not be allowed to regularise encroachments on water bodies deemed to be lying in “disuse”.
 
 Founder of Environmentalist Foundation of India Arun Krishnamurthy said such demands for reclassifications were not only a violation of civic laws, but also natural law. “We will be paying a heavy price for the indiscriminate exploitation of such natural resources (in the urban space), in the light of change in climatic condi0tions,” he said.
 
  CMDA officials said the reclassification proposal would be approved only after receiving consent from the respective government departments. “We would be sending these applications to the revenue and forest departments as it pertains to a water body and forest land respectively. In case any objections are raised by the respective departments, the proposal will not get through,” a senior CMDA official said.
 
 Asked how an individual had come to be in possession of reserved forest land, the CMDA official said some areas abutting the forest areas had also been marked as reserved forest areas in the land use map of the planning authority. “So, we will consider all these aspects while taking a decision on the reclassification applications,” he added.
 
 
