  : The story of the indomitable struggle of Chitralekha, the dalit auto driver from Payyannur who made headlines for fighting casteism and asserting her dignity as a woman, would soon be seen on the silver screen. British art dealer and scriptwriter Fraser Scott, who came to know about the fight put up by Chitralekha during a casual   search, has started working on a script based on her life and also discussions are on with production companies. 

 Things do not end there. The news shared by Scott through his Instagram account the other day, caught the attention of eminent filmmaker and producer   Kapur, who made many path-breaking films including Bandit Queen based on the life and times of Phoolan Devi, and has expressed his interest to back the project.
 
 "When I narrated her struggles, including how she survived a murder attempt, to Shekhar, he said that she was as brave as the Bandit Queen herself," said Scott, who has also started discussions with some production companies in Bollywood. The script writer said he aimed to rope in some Bollywood stars, at the same time making an international venture in English.
 
 Despite grabbing national attention, it was not easy for Scott to trace his subject. "My friend, writer-activist Roopesh Kumar helped me understand the culture of Kerala, and also the life of Chitralekha," he said.
 
 Chitralekha cannot hide her excitement over the project. "A British script writer has clearly understood the essence of my struggles, which the   failed to understand. The party was supposed to stand with dalits and also fight for the dignity of women," she said adding that her fight is to break the barriers of caste and gender.
 
 She was attacked allegedly by CPM and CITU workers in 2005 for daring to enter the male-dominated profession of riding an auto rickshaw to earn a living. Though her rickshaw was set ablaze multiple times, she continued her fight. When things became unbearable she had launched a sit-in protest at the Collectorate here for 122 days, in 2015, following which the then   government initiated steps to rehabilitate her under the government scheme.
 
 "The CPM humiliated me for my dark colour. This project, if realized, will be a recognition for people like me who have been facing discrimination in the name of caste, colour and sex," said Chitralekha.
 
