HYDERABAD: Student suicide has assumed epidemic proportions with one student committing suicide every 55 minutes in India, city psychologists said, days after two Class 10 girls leapt to death from the eight floor of an apartment complex.
 
  
 According to state government figures, since the beginning of academic year in 2017, more than 150 students across educational institutions in Hyderabad and elsewhere in districts have committed suicide, with the city alone recording 30 suicides.
 
 City psychologists pointed out that in a single class, there are currently 20% of students suffering with anxiety and depression due to parental, academic and peer pressure. “The student suicide rate have shot up across the country and in the twin Telugu states as well. Earlier it was only children above the age of 14 who formed a majority of the recorded student suicides, but now students of the age of 12 or 13 are turning up with symptoms of depression and anxiety,” said Dr S Shanmukhi, clinical psychologist at Rainbow Children’s Hospital in Vikrampuri.
 
 According to the   published by the National Institute of Mental Health And Neuro Sciences ( ), the suicide incidence rate per 1,00,000 population for those below the age of 14 was 0.5, while those in the 14-17 age bracket recorded a suicide incidence rate of 9.52 — higher than the national individual average of 0.9%.
 
 The latest NIMHANS study conducted among 1,500 students found that 11% of college students and 7-8% of high school students have attempted suicide.
 
 P  , president of the Government Inter Colleges Association, Telangana, pointed out that suicide rates across junior colleges in   and   are also on the rise. “90% of the suicides recorded across   and Telangana occur at junior college level, where competition is fierce and a ranking-based academic system is followed. Every year, more than 100 suicides are recorded across junior colleges in the twin Telugu states,” said Reddy, while calling for focussed programmes, at both state and district levels, in the area of child and adolescent mental health.
 
 Psychologists now point to a few symptoms such as changes in sleeping and eating habits, drug and alcohol use, engaging in risky behaviours and showing less interest in activities they previously enjoyed as ‘warning signs’ for parents. As per the National Mental Health Survey, the most common mental disorders identified among adolescents were anxiety and mood disorders.
 
 “According to statistics, over the past three years more than 26,000 students have committed suicide across India. A majority of student suicides are caused by underlying psychiatric factors such as stress, depression and anxiety. It could result from difficulty in coping with academics, unrealistic expectations and pressure from parents and lack of support from peers. It is very important to identify the illness at an early stage and consult a mental health professional,” said Dr Virinchi Sharma, a psychiatrist.
 
 
