PATNA: Deputy CM   said on Friday the   ( ) for 2017-18 would not only be in a new format but would also include impact reports on various issues, including prohibition and flash flood menace last year.

 Modi, who is the state’s longest-serving finance minister and has also presented in the assembly the state budget eight times since 2006-07, would resume it from the 2018-19 fiscal. He could not present the state budget in 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17, as the BJP was not in the government led by CM Nitish Kumar and   during the period.
 
 Modi said the ESR would be in two parts — the first presenting the reports in text form and the second containing statistical accounts on the matters discussed in the report. Since the NDA came to power in   in November 2005, the ESRs have been presented in the state assembly on 12 occasions and a day before the budget presentation, he added. He also said the report would be brought out by the state’s Centre for Economic Policy & Public Finance (CEPPF).
 
 Incidentally, the Nitish government introduced total prohibition on April 5, 1916, apart from launching the government’s seven resolves programme. While the target to electrify all the villages was achieved in December last year, power is to be provided to all the tolas by April end this year. Moreover, last year, the state witnessed devastating floods in 19 of the 38 districts, claiming 514 human lives.
 
 Modi said there would be separate reports on the socioeconomic impact of total prohibition, along with a presentation of impact assessments with regard to the adverse effects of 2017 floods. There would be separate reports on the impact of the government’s seven resolves programme, rural electrification, nim-coated urea, payment of money to beneficiaries under direct benefit transfer (DBT) method under various schemes.
 
 In the same category would be the report on the socioeconomic impact and empowerment of women achieved through self-help groups (SHGs) under the Jeevika programme. The report on rural electrification would have the supplementary report on the reduction in consumption of kerosene. The ESR would also give the extent and popularity of organic farming, Modi said.
 
 
