In the latest episode of  ,   is ready to leave the Chatterjee household. Ranajay’s father feels emotional as she is taking his granddaughter  , too. He emotionally says that being a father he should have saved Iman from all these complexities. Ranajay’s father also shares that he is ashamed of his son.

 Iman says that he should be a proud father as her daughter (Iman) has got a job and will live independently now.
 
 Ranajay’s mother requests Iman to take a share of their property but she refuses and tells them all she needs, is love.
 
 Ranajay’s aunt is also going with Iman. Before saying good bye to the family members, she shares something about her past life. How she had thought of getting married but good luck wasn’t on her side. She informs that she wants to give her share of property to Iman’s daughter, Pekham.
 
 Mithu cries a lot as she loves Pekham. 
 
 Rupkotha asks for Iman’s forgiveness. Iman says that she has always thought of her as an elder sister. Iman says that after her father’s death she had no one else. After coming to this household she has got a loving mother, father, and other family members.
 
 Iman and   both get emotional before saying goodbye to each other. Iman says sorry to both Ranajay and Shruti. She requests them to get married soon. Ranajay tries to stop her. He tries to explain himself, too. But she refuses to listen.
 
 The entire family tries to stop her but she leaves the household. Ranajay recalls the moments they have spent together.
 
  Iman and Ranajay’s aunt reach Ujanpur. They are welcomed by the staff and the local people.
 
 Ranajay is extremely upset as Iman has left with their daughter. Shruti comes to his room and tries to console him. Ranajay shares that he will apply for a transfer to Ujanpur. Shruti requests him to arrange a hospital for her. But he says that he will take her and   to Ujanpur. Rupkotha enters their room and insults Shruti.
 
 Ranajay discusses about his desire to take transfer to Ujanpur. But his boss criticises his behaviour.
 
