RANCHI: A social audit conducted by   activists has pointed out serious flaws in the government's   ( ) scheme introduced last year for ration distribution across the state. 

 In October 2017, the government launched the pilot project at Nagri block in Ranchi district and it changed the way people got access to subsidised food. Earlier, all people had to do was visit the ration shop and buy rice for Rs 1 per kg. But with the government now transferring the subsidy into their bank accounts, the process became tedious. A person now has visit the bank to check if the subsidy amount has been transferred to their accounts. They then need to withdraw the money before buying rice at the PDS shop price of Rs 32 a kg.
 
 Among those facing the project's brunt is Daniel Tirkey of Singhpur village in Nagri. He has got a notice saying his ration card will be cancelled as he has not been able to procure the ration allotted to him. Then there is Jamuna Tirkey, who has been asked to collect his quota of ration within a couple of days, failing which his allotment would lapse.
 
 There are also cases where people have not been able to procure ration even though the money has been transferred to their account. Basi Orain's husband works in Punjab and the food subsidy is credited to his account. Despite her concerted effort, her account has not been linked for the subsidy and she is unable to access the money.
 
 Fulo Mundain of Kenke village has two bank accounts and for 15 days she did the rounds of both branches to figure out which one is linked the scheme. She hasn't received any money in the last two months. Eighty-five-year-old Fulti Kachchap's family spends Rs 300 on travelling to the bank to get a subsidy of Rs 32 per kg of rice.
 
 Of the 244 beneficiary families surveyed by Right to Food Campaign in 13 randomly selected villages in Nagri block, each family on an average has 3.4 bank accounts and 95% of them have not been informed about the account linked to the food subsidy scheme. As a result, people have to shuttle between various banks. The average distance from their home to a bank is 4.3km, the survey found.
 
 
