PANAJI: “I am broke… I can’t tell you how difficult it is. Forget savings, it is hard to even manage monthly expenses. Of my salary, 40% goes towards repaying the loan I took to invest in Sydney Lemos’s company,” said a Dubai-based cabin crew member of Emirates.

 From repaying EMIs on loans taken to invest in Lemos’s   scheme to seeing their entire savings wiped out to even witnessing the death of a Filipino, Sydney and wife Valany have shattered the dreams and aspirations of thousands of investors, who put their hard-earned money in their company Exential, hoping to secure the future of their children and families.
 
 “I have a five-year-old boy who is unwell and needs physiotherapy regularly. I can no way afford a Dubai lawyer or afford to file a civil case. I hope the Indian government sells off Sydney and Valany’s properties in Goa and pays us our money,” said the cabin crew member, who traces his roots to Rajasthan.
 
 Another   M Al Mashjari, who is working with an airline company, said when Exential stopped paying them, they had a meeting with Sydney in February 2016. “We were promised that he would make sure we would get our returns on the 10th of every month,” he said.
 
 “But the next month, when this did not happen, we all reached the office. It was in a mess. There were around 100 investors at the reception shouting,” Mashjari said. 
 
 After the scheme collapsed in March 2016, the Dubai Economic Department shut down the company’s offices in July 2016. 
 
  was arrested first in December 2016, but was let out on bail. 
 
 He was arrested again in mid-January last year and convicted by a Dubai court to over 500 years in jail for duping thousands of investors in a $200 million scam.
 
 “I invested for my kids’ education,” said Mashjari. 
 
 Vijaykumar Ranchhodbhai Patel from Gujarat said he invested thinking it would “bring me back huge returns. But it turned out to be one of the biggest mistakes of my life”.
 
 Mashjari, who claims he has spent 75,000 dirhams in court fees till date, said they would go to Sydney’s office and wait for hours to ask for their money, but he would never show up. 
 
 “Me and my friends gave them many chances and waited for more than six months before filing a case. The attitude of Sydney and Valany was disturbing. I even met Sydney at Al Barsha police station in August 2017 and gave him an option of returning my funds. I told him if he returns my money, I will withdraw the case. But he never accepted,” Mashjari said.
 
 He said, instead, Sydney asked him to withdraw his complaint and get him out of jail. “Sydney and Valany intentionally stole other people’s money and enjoyed it,” he said.
 
 
