LUDHIANA: The tussle between staff under the banner of Elementary Teachers’ Union ( ) and deputy district education officer (secondary)   has reached the police and education minister Aruna Chaudhary.

 The deputy DEO filed a police complaint, accusing 17 teachers, some unidentified, of defaming him and hatching a conspiracy against him. On the other side, the teachers complained to the education minister on Monday, accusing the officer of harassing women staff with false complaints.
 
 Minister Aruna Chaudhary was on a visit to the city for the convocation of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU). There, women teachers and members of the union met her and handed over their complaint against deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh.
 
 The teachers alleged that Singh called women teachers after school hours for inquiry and mentally harassed them. Poonam, one of the complainants who is head teacher of Government Primary School, Islamganj, said, “Recently when the deputy DEO suspended two teachers of Government Elementary School of Baba Ishar Chand Colony in Mundiya Kalan over the viral video of school students lifting garbage bin, the union stood by the teachers and strongly opposed the officer by staging a protest. Since then, the officer has been nursing a grudge against them.”
 
 President of the union   said, “In July when new district education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur joined, the union members went to welcome her and discuss some issues. The teachers marked leave on attendance register and went to the DEO office, but Kuldeep Singh said he received a complaint against them for leaving school. He did not tell about the complainant despite orders of senior officers that anonymous complaints will not be entertained. We still gave written explanation twice with the copies of attendance register where half-day leave was marked. But after the bin video went viral, he started harassing teachers.”
 
 On January 24, the union gathered at the office of   and agitated against Singh, after which he filed a complaint against teachers at division 5 police station, saying the teachers were defaming him and had gathered at SSA office to attack him, but he managed to escape.
 
 Singh said, “The complaint against their absence in schools was marked to me by the director, public instructions. Teachers have submitted an explanation, but the letter head had their NGO’s name which is not valid.”
 
 SHO inspector Jatinder Singh said after the complaint, both the parties were called, but as it was their department’s issue, the police could do nothing. They have been asked to approach their seniors, he added.
 
