Palanpur: The trouble for farmers of flood-affected north Gujarat districts — Banaskantha and Patan — seems to be far from over. With the state government’s decision not to provide water from Narmada for irrigation for summer crop, farmers are left to fend for themselves.  The state-run Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd (SSNNL) last week announced its decision that owing to low quantity of water available in the Sardar Sarovar dam following deficient rains in the catchment area during monsoon, it will not be able to provide irrigation water in the Narmada command area for the summer crop after March 15. The SSNNL also appealed to farmers to not sow the summer crop unless they have local source of water. The state-run corporation said the water storage level was just 45% of the 15-year average. The government further said that this was a routine announcement to provide more drinking water during summer. “Government has decided to issue a public notice to farmers this time, so that they can plan accordingly, without depending on Narmada water,” the SSNNL statement said. Sangram Rao, a farmer from Nava Vas in Vav taluka of Banaskantha, said that the government’s decision will break the flood-affected farmers financially. “Repairs of the Narmada canal that was damaged during the floods in July last year was completed only in first week of January this year. We did not get Narmada water for the Rabi crop during December. Now, even if after repairing Narmada canal, we do not get water for irrigation during summer, we will be destroyed,” Rao told TOI. “First, our Kharif crop was washed away in the July-August floods last year. Now, the situation has turned normal, but it is way past the Rabi sowing season. Our livelihood is dependent on summer crop. But if there is no Narmada water we will be devoid of that too,” he added. Bhupatji Thakor, a farmer from Nekariya village in Kankrej taluka that was one of the worst affected during the 2017 floods said if they are not able to cultivate summer crops like bajri, jowar and maize they will also face fodder shortage. “As such, there is shortage of fodder in our region after the floods. We get one bunch of fodder at Rs 20. We get fodder as by-product of summer crops like bajri and jowar. If we are not able to cultivate it, there will be more shortage. Since many of us here are dependent on animal husbandry for livelihood, high fodder prices will make our lives difficult,” said Thakor. Floods in Banaskantha and Patan had devastated several villages and towns and claimed over 200 lives in July-August last year. The floods and rehabilitation work was also stated as one of the reasons for delay in assembly polls by the Election Commission of India.