April has been a severe month for entire Vidarbha, and especially Nagpur, with mercury having breached the 45 celsius mark. To add to the summer woes, ground   level has also dipped, leading to a lot of wells running dry and people facing water shortage in several parts of the city. The silver lining in this dark cloud is that the situation has motivated a lot of city youngsters to create awareness about water conservation.

 
 
 
 Such is the water problem in and around Nagpur that the new District Collector Ashwin Mudgal went on to record to say immediately after joining office yesterday that ‘Water conservation’ is his biggest priority. “The region is facing a mini crisis as inflow in the Totladoh Dam has reduced due to construction of Charai dam in Madhya Pradesh. Water conservation works will have to be undertaken on a big scale in the area,” Mudgal went on to add.
 
 Director of Central Water Commission, Nagpur, Milind Panpatil, admits, “Things are really bad this season. Compared to last April, the ground water has depleted around 10 to 20 percent. We are trying our best to salvage the situation across the state and especially in Nagpur. Gosi Khurd Dam, which is the lifeline of Vidarbha, is nearing completion now. Things should improve soon.”
 
 
 
 According to social activist Arvind Kumar Raturi, just lamenting that water situation is bad, won’t serve any purpose. He says, “We are visiting various colleges to educate the youngsters that water must not be wasted to wash the cars and vehicles. We also tell the youngsters that washing the pets or verandahs with free flowing water is not on. We have also formed groups to help the   in locating homes that have put tullu pumps on waterlines to get good flow of water, while neighbouring taps go dry.”
 A student of arts, Avantika Ghugre, has opted for a more creative way. “My friends and I organise poster competitions and nukkad nataks at various parts of the city, where water shortage is more acute, so that people can relate with this issue.”
 
 There are others like student activist Siddhesh Thakur, who are busy adding to the green cover. “We have to think long-term. So, as a habit, I plant one tree every day in my area, Friends Colony. I have planted fruit trees including custard apple, mango, guava and cheeku near a lot of independent houses and have given the ownership of nurturing these to the respective neighbours. Now their maids water the plants using leftover water after the mopping sessions every alternate day. Once we have enough trees in the city, water table is bound to rise.”
 
 
 
 
 Some of the experts who have done work in the field of water resource management feel that people have to start working now to ensure that water table rises across the city in the coming months. In-charge of water resources engineering lab at  , Dr   Vasudeo, shares, “During the entire monsoon season, we get rains barely for 15-16 days. And we allow that to go down the drain. One only needs to follow small steps to ensure greater water retention in the ground. If you plant trees around your flat scheme or house, the plants will hold the water for longer duration and that will lead to greater water retention. Problem is that everyone is using free groundwater without any vision or plan. The rainfall has decreased over the years and per capita consumption of water has increased from 135 litres per day in 1995 to 270 litres per day today. To make up for this, we have to make small infiltration ditches around our homes and flats. Digging area around your boundary wall and filling it with small pebbles will also help in retaining the excess rainwater. When you are putting paver blocks in the outer part of your home, don’t add concrete in the base; it will help the porous surface to absorb greater amounts of water.”
 
 
 
