NAGPUR: Lanky South Indian from Mysuru,  , set the court No. 2 of   on fire on Sunday. The afternoon sun was smiling bright and the seventh seed Darshan was becoming too hot to handle for the 12th seed  .

 
 When the seeded opponents were tied in the second set at 5-5, Darshan tested Rishabh with maximum power and minimum fuss. He struck four back-to-back full-blooded backhands to the left of Rishabh, followed by three equally powerful forehands and won a point with two slices to undo the challenge of clever-looking player from West Bengal.
 
 It was that point which defined Darshan’s dominance in the final qualifying round match which he won 6-2, 7-6 (1) and made it to the main draw of the Gondwana Club-Dinshaw’s   tennis tournament.
 
 Despite such an influential victory, Darshan pondered a lot while recovering after the tiring encounter. He wants to achieve some personal targets, which he doesn’t wish to talk about, in this event.
 
 “I am just focusing on doing my best in every match. I have certain targets set for myself and would be playing to achieve those,” the 24-year-old Karnataka player, said, before taking the court again for knocking, a few minutes after the match.
 
 
 
 Former India junior No. 1 Basil Khuma continued his winning spree and recorded third easy victory on the trot. The unseeded Basil defeated Aman Ayub Khan 6-0, 6-0 to advance into the main draw. The victory against Andhra Pradesh’s Aman was important for Basil’s confidence. “I was playing aggressive tennis for the first time after suffering shoulder injury two years ago. My only focus was on cutting down unforced errors and I managed to execute the plan. I am pleased that I am shaping my game well,” Basil said.
 
 Though he has been doing everything well on the court and recorded his third victory in two days, the former India junior star feels that he got the much-needed feel in the second set.
 
 “I was not feeling much confident in the first set. Things started to roll my way when I got into the rhythm and started hitting the ball well in the second set,” a satisfied Basil stated.
 
 Basil will be playing in the men’s category main draw almost after 2 years of injury lay-off. When he was asked whether he would be under pressure on Monday, he replied, “there is a bit of pressure. But, I just want to enjoy my game. I would be taking one step at a time and focus more on regaining my fitness than thinking about the title,” the 19-year-old player from Mizoram, added.
 
 
 Men’s qualifying (Final Round): Basil Khuma bt 13-Aman Ayub Khan 6-0, 6-0, 2-Osama Shaik bt 16-Ayan Kevadiya 6-1, 7-5, 11-Yugantar Vyas bt Vishrut Jalan 6-2, 6-0, 4-V Hevanth Kumar bt 10-Karan Lalchandani 6-0, 6-0, 5-Garry Tokas bt Gitesh Awasthi 7-6 (3), 6-0, 6-Ojas Rathee bt Sarang Wakpainjan 6-2, 6-3, 7-Darshan Srinivasa bt 12-Rishab Jha 6-2, 7-6 (1), 8-Siddharth Ponnala bt 9-Vashu Gupta 6-3, 7-5.
 
 
 1. Ayan Kevadiya, 2. Karan Lalchandani, 3. Rishab Jha, 4. Vishrut Jalan, 5. Amaan Ayub Khan.
 
 
 1. Jatin Dahiya, 2. Sunil Malik, 3. Anurag Nenwani, 4. Tejas Chaukulkar, 5. Shivam Dalmia, 6. Vijay Kannan, 7. Vilasier Khate, 8. Ramakrishnan Rangaraju.
 
