NAGPUR: Supply of water round-the clock has become all the more necessary to ensure that even low-lying areas are not faced with shortage, said Farhat Quraishi, a representative of external communication and social services of Orange City Water (OCW) on Wednesday.

 Qureshi was speaking at a programme organized by   (SMM) in association with OCW for undergraduate and postgraduate students of environmental science department. The programme was part of Water Conservation Week celebrated at the college.
 
 For a city like Nagpur, which has a population of more than 27 lakh, continuous supply of water is important, Quraishi said. The 24x7 scheme has been a success in Dharampeth area, she added. 
 
 Rolling out statistics, Quraishi said that the situation on the supply front is satisfactory. It is the duty of every citizen to use water sparingly. Wastage of water can create problems and therefore people should clean vehicles with wet clothes. Thousands of litres of water go down the drain due to leaking taps at many places and pilferage, she added.
 
 It is not that water should be used sparingly only in summers but all through the year so that a crisis-like situation is not created, she said, and asked the students to promote conservation at the individual level. 
 
 OCW has a helpline on which people can lodge a complaint if they find damage to pipelines or for any problem they faced, Quraishi added.
 
 Pravin Meshram, head of the environmental science department of the college, said, “Water conservation is a social obligation. While we discuss rainwater harvesting, it is our duty to use water with constraint.”
 
 Meshram said students should start the practice of make minimum use of water from early days of their life so that they could help the society in a better way. They should also create awareness among the people about how precious water is, he added.
 
 Speaking to TOI, students of the college said people need to understand the importance of water conservation. Only after that will they be able to find a solution to water scarcity. Saving water resources is a social issue and people’s participation is a must.”
 
 (Reporting by  )
 
 
