New Delhi: The Delhi   has made an   to   a   from an   a shot at working in India’s Central armed police forces, saying she could become a   for her community, and for women in general.

 A bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Pratibha Rani recently ordered the Central Industrial Security Force ( ) to induct Noor Fatima three years after she emerged as one of the all-India toppers in the Central Armed Police Force examinations in 2015 but was bedridden due to a series of injuries.
 
 Fatima, who faced great resistance from her family which wanted her to get married immediately rather than work, had moved court when the CISF refused to allow her to join after she missed the deadline due to injuries.
 
 “We are of the opinion that it is a fit case for intervention as irreparable loss and injury shall be caused to the petitioner, who will miss a lifetime opportunity to become a part of a disciplined force. That apart, if the petitioner is inducted into the force, then she will be a shining example for the rest of her community and will encourage other similarly placed women to participate in the CAPF’s examination, thereby opening new professional avenues for them,” the bench observed.
 
 The HC noted that the “petitioner is a young Muslim girl from an orthodox family having a rural background. She hails from a village situated in district Jalaun, Uttar Pradesh. Aspiring to join the uniformed force, she worked hard and excelled in the competitive examination.”
 
 Fatima, in her plea, told the bench frankly that she had received next to no support from her family to give wings to her dream of joining one of the forces but had yet come an all-India third in the exam. But just 10 days before she was to join the CISF academy in Hyderabad, her ankle got twisted and doctors advised not only medication but also three weeks’ bed rest.
 
 CISF authorities took a sympathetic view and allowed Fatima two extensions. But, as luck would have it, she developed severe lower back pain a month later, in November 2016, and had to undergo physiotherapy with bed rest. When she sought another extension, the authorities agreed to one last opportunity but she could not avail of that because she remained bedridden.
 
 When in September 2017 doctors declared Fatima fit for duty, the CISF told her the appointment offer had lapsed and her request was denied.
 
 Fatima informed the HC that she couldn’t join the CISF for two reasons: one, a sprained ankle just 10 days before she was to join training; and two, stiff resistance from her family members who insisted she get married instead.
 
 The bench opined that “equity demands this court takes into consideration the unusual circumstances of the present case, where the petitioner, who belongs to a remote village in UP and comes from a conservative family, decided to give wings to her dreams of becoming a force personnel (sic) but ended up facing insurmountable difficulties both on the personal front and health front”.
 
 The court gave Fatima a last chance and directed the CISF to permit her to join basic training at the National Industrial Security Academy, Hyderabad, and issue a letter to her extending the reporting time to enable her to join training with the next batch.
 
 
