Mohali: Three private universities coming up in   by the end of this year will focus on quality and skill development that’s missing from the present education system, says chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. He was at the Times of India event ‘Mohali: The Next Big   Hub’ here on Tuesday.

 Talking about the plans of his state government to bridge the gap between the industry’s requirement and the academic curriculum, he said the land to three private universities will bring quality education to the students for a low fee. Aritel and Ashoka University are building “affordable campuses” in Punjab. About the challenge before the education system, the Punjab CM said: “The private institutes are meeting their target of quality education to their students but the problem is that the government schools and colleges are far behind.”
 
 Worried over Punjab’s last-year school report card that shows 50% of its students failed in Class X, he said: “It is unacceptable. The government is going to improve the show by promoting private participation and asking companies to adopt primary schools and revamp these according to the present needs.” Amarinder proposed evening skill development classes at the elite technology institutes of Punjab to improve the job prospects of the young population. “A skill development institute is coming up at Chamkaur Sahib,” he said.
 
 GBP group sales director Anupam Gupta said most of the companies were unable to recruit from Punjab because they didn’t get quality product from its engineering institutes. “The companies are eager to hire young blood from this region, provided it is capable,” he said.
 
 Punjab Technical University dean A P Singh said the big gap between the industry’s requirement and the academic curriculum could be bridged, if the universities accepted industry representatives on their boards of studies that draft the college curriculum. He called for campus design that kept the industry’s requirements in view.
 
 National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology additional director Meenakshi Gaur said referring to the students coming to the institute for BTech that a few of them were not even aware of the common systems commands, “so there is dire room for improvement”.
 
 BOX:
 
 Next big things in Punjab education
 
 Three private universities for affordable education
 
 IIT’s evening classes for skill training 
 
 Skill development institute at Chamkaur Sahib
 
 Private companies to adopt government schools
 
 
