Back in Lucknow in less than two months, actress   did all the things that she couldn't do during her last 'hectic trip' because of back-to-back promotional activities lined up for her then. From roaming around the city alone, to having the famous  , Nushrat had loads of fun and masti during her recent visit here. "Yes, I am back again in Lucknow. I am here as a show stopper for a fashion show. It's rather hot here these days. I remember how hot it was even in February when I was in Lucknow to promote my movie ' ' with the cast. I went to old Lucknow and saw that beautiful part of the city while sitting on a tonga," said she.
However, Nushrat could hardly control her temptation to go out in the evening. "Since I was staying back for the night, after my event got over, that beautiful view of Gomti Nagar which I could see from my hotel room's window had been on my mind and so I somehow managed to go out to the  . I also went live on my Instagram account as I wanted to show my fans, who are from different parts of the globe, that how beautiful Lucknow is. It was a last minute plan and I loved the whole experience of roaming about in Lucknow and meeting my fans,” she said.
 And the actress left no stone unturned in having fun during her stay here. "Apart from  , I also had the famous basket chaat, which I had been hearing about from a long time. And I must say, Lucknow ki chaat is the yummiest I have ever had! This whole concept of basket chaat is so unique and it is really yummy!" said Nushrat.
 
  
  Nushrat Bharucha in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 Ask her how things have changed for her post the sweeping success of her last release and she says, "Frankly speaking, during the making of 'Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety', we never realised that the movie is going to be such a hit and that it will change our lives so much. There have been movies which have done really well at the Box Office, but rarely do we have movies where actors get so much love and adulation from their fans. Even today, when I meet my fans, they quote several scenes from the movie which they liked. The audience's reaction is the most rewarding thing for an actor, especially me. I have never experienced such fan moments ever before. 
 Well, in terms of offers, bahut kuch badal gaya hai. Filmmakers earlier never acknowledged me as a main stream heroine, but they do now. Thankfully, now directors of typical commercial big budget movies have started to approach me. I am getting calls and meetings are happening and now something big will be announced by the end of this month."
 Nushrat, has also been making news for her linkup with director  . Denying the rumours she says, "I was not in Mumbai when this news started floating about my linkup with Luv sir. He has been Luv sir for me for years. Kisi ko date karne ke liye feelings honi chahiye and I don’t have those feelings for him. I want to be in love but not with Luv. Earlier people linked me to Kartik (Aryan). I have not been in a relationship for quite a few years. I want to actually date someone who is not from this industry."
 
 
