HYDERABAD: Once symbolic of the city's rich heritage and culture, M-47   has now been reduced to a pale shadow of its glorious past. This courtesy the apathy of government departments that have refused to shoulder the responsibility of conserving the historic war memorial.

 The War Patton was gifted as a symbol of appreciation to the Bison division raised in Secunderabad after the epic war of 1971, in which the   executed one of the most decisive battles to help carve out Bangladesh, after a bitter but brief war with Pakistan.
 
 
  
  
 
 The Bison division, which was raised in Secunderabad in 1966, had launched a swift offensive into the Shakargarh sector (part of  ) and captured 988 square kilometers of Pakistani territory during the 14-day war in December 1971.
 
 “The Patton was once cleaned and painted on   but somehow they ended up erasing the serial number on the tank which shows the sheer negligence towards it,” Anuradha Reddy, a city-based heritage activist said.
 
 She further explained how people are often seen climbing on top of the tank to take pictures, which might lead to further damage of the iconic symbol.
 
 When contacted about its maintenance, an official from the tourism department said on condition of anonymity, “Tank Bund is under maintenance of GHMC, so the Patton should also be maintained by them. But I am not sure, so please confirm with   officials.”
 
 When contacted, the GHMC official said, “It could be under the maintenance of the Cantonment board, not GHMC”.
 
 The M-47 is one of the 66 tanks knocked out by the Bison division. It was gifted by Major General W.A.G. Pinto, General Officer Commanding of Bison division to commemorate the victory. “That part of Tank Bund is under the maintenance of GHMC, they could be taking care of the Patton as well or it could also be under the maintenance of the Defence as it was installed by them,” T Chiranjeevulu,   commissioner said.
 
 Even after several appeals from the Army to the authorities and civilians to look after the war memorial, it appears that neither of them cared enough for the efforts of soldiers who put their lives at stake in the war.
 
 
 
