Chemistry paper is entirely based on the   textbook and you can pass the exam with flying colours if you know the curriculum well. While studying, you should give precedence to the chapters having higher marks weightage. Total 16 chapters cover two sections each of 35 marks and you should prioritize and solve it according to your comfort.

 The objective portion of the paper tests your theoretical knowledge, so you should read the textbook thoroughly. You should also do a comprehensive study of topics like solid state, chemical thermodynamics, electrochemistry, chemical kinetics, and ‘solution and its colligative properties’ as the numerical questions are based on them.
 
 Questions on ‘p-block dlements’ and ‘chemical thermodynamics’ are asked for 14 marks in section A, whereas in section B, ‘d- and f- Block elements’ and ‘aldehyde and ketones’ carry 10 marks. So, you should not skip these topics as you can pass the exam effortlessly just on its basis.
 
 While solving the numerical section, you should always mention the given data and formulae used as there is a step-wise marking system. You must also mention the consequent general reaction when asked for short note on reaction and state the catalysts/temp without fail.
 
 All diagrams and figures should be proportionate and neatly drawn with correct labels on them. Laws and principles should be written precisely and you must specify examples wherever necessary. Revise   names of organic as well as coordinate compound.
 
 Revise the chapters systematically with its titles and subtitles in the same order. This helps in speedy recollection of answers during exam. Also, you are expected to write terse answers in bullet points, so don’t elaborate unnecessarily. Proper paper presentation creates good impression and you should highlight the important parts if time permits.
 
 The writer is a lecturer at Mohota Science College
 
 Paper snapshot
 
 Subject: Chemistry (HSC)
 
 Exam date: February 28
 
 Exam duration: 3 hrs
 
 Theory paper marks: 70
 
 Expert tips
 
 Prioritize the question paper after reading it and primarily solve the questions you are most confident about
 
 Do not repeat the answers using different words; this wastes your time
 
 To enhance the presentation, start a new answer on a fresh page
 
 Remember the marks you are writing the answer for
 
 Last-minute revision
 
 Solve at least three sample question papers compulsorily and keep a record of time
 
 Avoid reading or learning anything new just a day before the exam. Keep revising the chapters you are practising since a year
 
 You should take a full night’s sleep before the exam and have proper meal
 
 
