AGRA: Thanks to the strict imposition of rules, students, appearing in the recently concluded   Exams, may not have been able to indulge in open cheating but some of them have not given up attempts to “bribing” their way to success by attaching currency notes of various denominations to their answer sheets.

 As evaluation of the papers began in Mathura, officials were shocked to find currency notes of Rs 100 and Rs 50 attached to several answer sheets on Tuesday. When these currency notes were counted at the three evaluation centres, where copies of class X and XII are being evaluated by teachers, they totalled in few hundreds of rupees.
 
 Teachers, who have been associated with evaluation process, said that this trend isn’t new but the fact that it has happened even after the Board made strict arrangements to ensure fair play is “slightly”surprising.
 
 They said that this practice is “normal” by students whose exams do not go well, as they think that by paying “bribes” this way, they will clear the exams.
 
 A teacher revealed this some answer sheets also carry hand written"pleas" from the students for giving "pass mark". Some students have also highlighted their family plights to give an emotional twist to their pleas, said the teacher.
 
 Neena Srivastava, Secretary, UP board said, “We can’t stop any student from doing such things but teachers will not be lured by such bribes and they will go entirely by merit”, she said adding that the entire evaluation process is being conducted under CCTV cameras.
 
 The Evaluation exercise was started on March 17 and so far over 40 lakh copies have been evaluated, said the secretary UP Board. A Total of 248 centres are designated across the state for evaluation and more than 5.5 crore copies of class X and XII students are being checked by 1.46 lakh teachers.
 
 The   government in UP this year took a slew of measures to curb the menace of mass copying in UP Board exams. Equipping all examination rooms in all centres with CCTV cameras was the foremost step to check rampant cheating.
 
 Directives were also issued to dispatch answer sheets from centres in vehicles under CCTV surveillance. As a result, there were a record number of drop-outs this year—11.29 lakh for both class X and XII, according to   Secretary,  .
 
 Results of   exams this year are expected early in the third week of April to facilitate further admission for students.
 
