KANNUR: DGP (north zone) Rajesh Dewan on Monday told reporters in Kannur that the two   workers arrested for the murder of Youth   leader Shuhaib — Akash M V

 (24) and Rejin Raj (26) — were actively involved in the crime.
 
 Dewan also denied charges that they had surrendered before police.
 
 “We have only two in custody and it is still a wide open case; we have yet to get main conspirators and people who executed the crime,” the DGP said.
 
 Congress leader G  , meanwhile, began a 48-hour fast demanding the arrest of the real killers. 
 
 The police claim is that the accused were arrested after a raid and that they did not surrender at the police station. Congress leaders are of the view that police arrested the duo, obeying the plan of CPM leaders. Congress leaders, including KPCC chief MM Hassan – who inaugurated the 48-hour fast by K Sudhakaran – made it clear that the party will continue the agitation till the real killers are nabbed.
 
 “In order to trace the real killers, the conspiracy should be brought out in the open and killers must be booked under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA),” he said, adding that Congress was not sure if the arrested persons were the real killers.
 
 Sudhakaran refuted the CPM’s claims of innocence. He said the arrests were made by side-lining the district police chief and their appearance did not match with the description given by those at the crime scene. The murder was possibly committed by a professional killer, he said.
 
 However, DGP (North Zone) Rajesh Dewan, who interacted with the media, claimed the arrested were actively involved in the murder and more arrests were likely. Denying allegations, he said there was no evidence, right now, to establish that their CPM affiliation was used in connection with this murder.
 
 “We have two persons in custody and the case is wide open. We are pursuing the main conspirators and those who executed the crime,” he said, adding that the conspiracy will be brought out in the open. Though 15 people were taken into custody over the past one week, it did not mean that investigators had zeroed in on all the accused, he added.
 
 The DGP said, he only arrested two persons and the police force was busy tracing the vehicle used by the assailants. Around 55 raids were conducted in six days, he said adding that the duo were flushed out due to intense police pressure.
 
 However, he added that the investigators had no evidence to invoke UAPA. The statement of Shuhaib’s father has been recorded, and if the family is not satisfied with the investigation, they can approach the court for the CBI probe, he said. District police chief G Siva Vikram also said the probe is progressing in the right direction.
 
 The duo arrested on Sunday claimed that they wanted to make him an ‘invalid for life’, but not kill him. Police said five people were involved in the murder and some DYFI leaders too maybe involved in the case. But, the real motive is unclear though the accused said that the attack was carried out with the knowledge of the local leadership.
 
 
 
