CHANDIGARH: The gloomy sky on Sunday initially discouraged the numerous city residents who were all geared up for a walking tour of trees. However, as the clouds began to gradually clear, it did bring a smile to people’s face who participated in an event organised by city-based volunteer group Chandigarh Tree Lovers. The group organised their maiden visit to the recently inaugurated ‘Nagar Van’, commonly referred to as the ‘City Forest’ here on Sunday.

 In this Times of India initiative, more than 20 new and old members of the group had participated in the event. This time, approximately 45 orphans and underprivileged kids from Ashiana, a government-run shelter home for kids, located in Sector16,  , also wholeheartedly took part.
 
 The main aim of the walk was to inspire young kids to take interest in their city’s flora and fauna, understand the different types of trees and plants, which make the city beautiful.
 
 The walk started from the main entrance of  , located opposite the Lake Horse Riding Club at around 7am. Led by   president Rajnish Wattas, Dr   and Dr Harsh   — both city-based tree experts — were also there along with other members. 
 
 “The walk was a success. The weather became pleasant for the children who enjoyed the walking even though it drizzled,” said Dr Rajnish Wattas. 
 
 At the beginning of the walk, the difference between a park and a forest was articulated by
 
 Dr Mitter informed the group about the difference between a park and forest. He also briefed the group about the history and concept of this urban forest. “Primarily, the focus in parks is always on the aesthetics and beauty of the surroundings. You will find neatly manicured lawns in parks. However, in a forest, native trees of this area are usually found. These trees have a wild and raw appearance, “said Dr Mitter while speaking to TOI.
 
 Dr Dhillon and Wattas informed the children about various types of trees found along the 3km periphery of the forest namely keekar, sheesham, sibal, palash, dhak and papri among others.
 
 “The location of this city forest is very close to the natural lake range. Hence, a lot of the commonly found trees of Chandigarh were discovered here as well. The kids were told about the difference between the dense canopies of old trees in the forest and new trees as well. Different sections of the forest like the meditation point, ornamental trees among others were also explained to the children,” said Wattas.
 
 The tree experts also discussed the bio-treatment of sewage water through traditional method, which aims to regulate the concept of internal irrigation and cleanliness of sewer water flowing in from   village, with the children. The walk came to an end at 8.15am.
 
 CTL had also previously conducted a walk with the children from Ashiana in Rose Garden and had promised them another one. 
 
 
