PATNA: With   vacation in schools slated to begin after a fortnight, many Patnaites are booking tour packages to different destinations in the   or on sea beaches in the country and abroad.

 The packages come for a price: While a five-night Bangkok-Pattaya trip costs around Rs 30,000/head, a five nights-six days Bali trip is priced at around Rs 36,000/head. Malaysia is a little expensive than Bali at Rs 38,000/head for the same duration. Singapore is more expensive as a trip for four nights and five days to the island city-state off southern Malaysia involves a cost of around Rs 49,000/head.
 
 Back home, one can book a trip to Andaman for around Rs 31,000, Mumbai-Goa for Rs 21,000 and Shimla-Kasauli for Rs 19,000 for five nights. 
 
 Radiant International School’s Class X student Rashmi Tripathi said her family would be off to Dehradun and Mussoorie. “I will enjoy each and every moment as I will not be able to go on vacation next year when I will have to write the board exam,” she said.
 
 A travel agency executive, Priyanka Kumari, said most of the bookings at her office were for Bankok-Pattaya in Thailand. “We have also received queries for destinations like Bali and Andaman as well as Shimla, Manali, Kasauli, Darjeeling and Gangtok,” she said.
 
 Other travel agents claimed they were still receiving bookings. “There appears to be a mad rush for Mumbai-Goa and Singapore, Bali and Mauritius. Every day, we have at least 15 people coming to us to plan their vacation,” Ravindra Kumar of a travel agency on Fraser Road said, adding he was now advising people to plan their holiday in June.
 
 Delhi Public School’s Class VIII student Mrinal Singh said his parents had already made booking for Mauritius. “We will leave on May 21. I’m really looking forward to having a dinner on a cruise during our six-day tour,” he said.
 
 Aneesabad resident Mihir Choudhary, whose son and daughter study in St Michael’s High School and   Central School respectively, said his family would be going to Mumbai and Goa in the last week of May.
 
 
