NEW DELHI: Ever since he cracked a match-winning century against Pakistan in the semifinal of the Under-19 World Cup, 18-year-old   has been making heads turn. Being picked for Rs 1.8 crore during the   auction by  , Gill has scored 129 runs from eight matches in the 2018 IPL – not exactly stellar figures by any stretch of the imagination, but his unbeaten half-century against Chennai Super Kings that helped KKR to victory has left coach   quite impressed.

 
 
 
 “It’s been a slightly frustrating week in which we produced one of our best and most clinical performances of the competition and then followed it up with one of the most disappointing. There were so many aspects of the win against Chennai that were impressive but the calmness and clear-thinking really stood out for me. At the halfway point of their innings, it seemed highly likely that CSK would set a target of 200+ on a perfect batting wicket but the spinners pulled it back superbly, all three of them delivering dot balls and preventing boundaries at crucial times,” Kallis wrote in Wednesday’s column for TOI.
 
 
 
 Chasing 178 to win, KKR were 40/2 when Gill walked out, and along with skipper Dinesh Karthik played a fine knock of 57 with six boundaries and two sixes. Kallis rued the fact that KKR, following the win over CSK, lost to Mumbai Indians, but credited the youngster for his amazing range of shots.
 
 “We also lost a couple of early wickets but, once again, we stayed calm and played clinical cricket. It gave an opportunity to Shubman Gill to bat higher up the order and he took it in some style. We were very clear in our management of his first experience in the IPL - we wanted to ease him in gradually rather than throw him into the deep end with great expectations,” the former allrounder, who scored almost 25,000 international runs and picked up over 500 wickets for South Africa, added.
 
 “So by the time he walked out to bat at No.4 against Chennai in a match we really needed to win, he was not a rookie and knew exactly what to do. There is no shot or option he does not have as a batsman but his decision-making and ability to think clearly under pressure is equally impressive. He has a very bright future with a mature head on his shoulders,”
 
 KKR’s 13-run loss against MI pushed them to No.4 in the 2018 IPL Points Table with five wins from 10 matches. With Sunrisers all but certain to book a place in the playoffs, and Chennai Super Kings and Kings XI Punjab closing in too, a win against Mumbai Indians, whom KKR face Wednesday night becomes crucial. Not only will it get them closer to booking a play-off berth, but victory will also mean curtains for the three-time IPL champions.
 
 “We had the opportunity to cement our place in the top four and really push hard for a top two finish, against Mumbai, and we should have won the game. I believe it was a case of us losing it rather than Mumbai winning it,” Kallis mentioned.
 
