GUWAHATI/ DIBRUGARH: The first draft of the National Register of Citizens (NRC), released at midnight on Sunday, had several surprises, with rebel leader Paresh   finding a place and senior political leaders, including Lok Sabha MP and All India United Democratic Front chief  , failing to make it to the draft.

 
 Altogether, 1.9 crore names out of 3.3 crore applicants were included in the first draft.   said the verification process of the remaining 1.4 crore applicants was still on. Chief minister   had said on Sunday that not a single genuine Indian citizen would be excluded from the final NRC. Ulfa (Independent) commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah, who has been seeking secession of Assam from India, is believed to be holed up somewhere along the China-Myanmar border.
 
 The names of five of his family members also appear. "Our entire family is happy. I had submitted the application at the NRC seva kendra myself. So we were certain his name would feature in the list. He may not be aware of his inclusion," Baruah’s sister-in-law   said on Monday.
 
 The names of Baruah’s wife, Boby Bhuyan Baruah, and his two sons Ankur and Akash, do not figure in the list, though. “We could not get the names of his wife and children included because some documents were missing. We will complete the process in the next phase,” Renu said.
 
 Baruah’s brother Bikul, a teacher, said the rebel leader had left home 37 years ago. “I was 12 when he left home. We are elated his name is there along with all family members. He is a son of the soil. He has taken birth in this village. So there is no question of his name not appearing,” he said. However, many leaders from across the political spectrum don’t figure in the first list. Prominent among them is Ajmal, who represents Muslim-majority Dhubri, bordering Bangladesh, in western Assam. Besides Ajmal, the names of his brother Sirajuddin, also a Lok Sabha MP, and two sons are missing. “Their documents are being verified,” AIUDF general secretary Aminul Islam said.
 
 AIUDF MLA Hafiz Bashir Ahmed Quasimi and his family have also not been included in the draft NRC, Islam added. BJP MLA from Hojai Shiladitya Dev who had in November triggered a controversy when he said most Muslims in the state are from Bangladesh, said his name was missing from the draft but those of his family members were included.
 
 “I am not concerned... I can understand the tremendous pressure under which those involved in the process were working,” he said. Congress MLA Nurul Huda also woke up to find his name missing. “Like me, 70% of the residents of Rupohihat (which he represents) are yet to be included,” he said.
 
