Actor-turned- Stand Up comedian   was in Coimbatore on Sunday to perform his third solo stand up show Blood Chutney. He spoke to CT about why he quit acting, growth of  , about Evam Stand Up Tamasha and more. Here are the excerpts

 
 
 
 I went through very difficult situations personally in my life last year and it so happened that Tamil Nadu also went through similar situations. So, the show literally talks about what Tamil Nadu and I went through. It was a difficult year for me because I didn’t feel anything funny about it. I was sad, upset and angry and the challenge was how to convert that into humour. Comedy is not about making people laugh in happy times, it is about making people laugh in difficult times and if you can make yourself laugh, it becomes powerfully therapeutic and I call it reality comedy. So that’s where the show came from.
 
 
 
 
 I think nothing hits hard as much as things that are personal to you, I would have made jokes out of social observation in my previous shows, but it is still objective. This is very personal, these are issues that I felt extremely uncomfortable and ashamed about, those things becoming humour is a different flavour of humour all together. People are still in the space of saying jokes should be on the funny topics and for the first time they are moving into topics that are more serious, dark and personal. From that perspective, discovering that you can make people laugh by discussing serious issues, few find that challenging. People who are new to stand up comedy ask why do you have to discuss such serious topics in stand up show, but people who know the art will immediately notice this is different. It is not better or worse, it is different. As a producer I have been a little careful about choosing auditoriums, if I had performed ‘Second Decoction’ (his previous solo show) for about 1000 people, I will only have 400 people for this show. I have treated it like an art film for myself.
 
 
 
 
 I personally don’t think theatre is different from stand up comedy, coming from theatre background I see stand up as theatre only. Secondly in theatre I have never written a play, I have only directed, acted and produced it. In this, I get to be my own playwright and I think it is a very powerful space to be in. You would be right in saying I am doing les theatre than stand up but I see both as the same.
 
 
 
 
 I think we have been successful in being a discovery platform for new artists, because we find them at an early stage in open mics and we provide them that ecosystem to thrive. For instance Alex ( ) has been doing stand up comedy for about two and a half years and today you find him reaching such magnificent heights. That comes from stage experiences and tackling tough shows. I think he would have done about 200 stage shows in the last couple of years before announcing his first solo show. I think we have been fairly successful in being a discovery platform, we treat the art form and artists respectfully. Stand Up is the fastest growing art form right now and young people think it is cool, but theatre they don’t think it is cool. It is an intimidating art form and it has its own life. We have been successful in employing theatre into corporate space, we have used theatre as a way to change behavioural skills in corporates. We have 10 actors in the Evam lab who are full time into acting and doing theatre for a living. You may not see them performing many ticketed shows, but they have been doing shows for the corporates, social initiatives and other things.
 
 
 
 
 I lost my interest in cinema acting in 2016, I quit cinema then. My last film ( ) released last week because it was a long pending release. I don’t think acting took a back seat as much as much as cinema. I felt that I wasn’t doing justice to it and it wasn’t doing justice to me, I was not doing the roles that I enjoyed. With the presence of many digital platforms, the nature of stories are also fast changing. You will find stories that are meant for lakhs of people rather than crores of people to watch. Automatically, if you have to make a film for all India release it will have to be as big as   or   and an   kind of film will suffer. So, an ‘Aruvi’ kind of film you will have to look at different budgets, different platforms and I would love to be an actor in that space. You will find me in a   very soon, it may release at the end of this year. But, Cinemave poruthavarikum mootakati mela vechachu.
 
 
 
 
 It’s like rock music. Youngsters think it is the coolest thing to do. Stand up comedy is constantly breaking mind sets and questioning norms. It is a disruptive art form, youngsters love it because we say things that nobody else says and it is a healthy thing. At the same time all of this can’t go digital, because when you go digital you will end up making Karni Senas angry, but this is not meant for them in the first place. I think it makes a young person ask uncomfortable questions early on in life, which is good.
 
 
 
 
 I think that is the future, at the end of the day you are presenting an idea to the audience. If you are able to present that idea in a language the audience is comfortable about, you will be able to reach them quickly. When I perform stand up comedy in English I reach the urban audience all over India, whereas today Alex does a show that is 70 percent in Tamil and Praveen does a 100 percent Tamil show. Especially in a country like India, where have so many languages that will be humungous. Unfortunately, I won’t be able to do that because my brought up is like that, I speak half English and half Tamil, I don’t think in Tamil. I won't say that my shows are fully English either, I am doing shows in a language that I know.
 
 
 
 
 Sustainability is the challenge. Sometimes you get easily carried away saying you are so famous. I don’t think one should take fame seriously, half of the audience are coming to watch the show because they think stand up comedy is cool. The other half is coming because they like you. We need to see a career in this form without thinking of bettering the performance in each album, you should think of different albums as different phase in your life, so gradually you will build your own audience. Stand Up comedy is an autobiographical art form, therefore you have to understand that it is a lonely journey and see how you are going to change in the coming years. That’s how  ,   and other greats have had long careers. It is about how you create that stamina for that long term. 
 
  
 
 
