NEW DELHI: The capital’s   ( )  , which annually sees over 65 million passengers, is combating air pollution in a different way. Instead of opting for air purifiers, nearly 35,000 indoor ‘air purifying’   are being used that thrive indoors and can naturally clean the air from basic pollutants.

 The airport operator,   (DIAL), said they are adding plants in thousands each year and the airport plans to increase this number considerably. In terms of external landscaping, nearly 3.9 million square feet of area within the IGI premises has been covered with plants and shrubs, officials said.
 
 To provide natural purification of the air, a mix of foliage and flowering trees have been used, which consists of indoor species like cassia fistula, asltonia scholaris, spider plants, snake plants, golden pothos, weeping fig, jacaranda mimosifolia and bamboo palm among others.
 
 Spider plants, for instance, battle benzene, formahaldehyde, carbon monoxide and xylene with its rich foliage, while weeping figs are known to help filter out pollutants thatr typically accompany carpeting and furniture such as formaldehyde, benzene and trichloroethylene.
 
 DIAL said different varieties of species have been chosen for the airport — each serving a specific purpose. The plants are adding not just to the aesthetic value of the airport but they are also serving an important purifying purpose.
 
 “We have been working towards reducing adverse environmental impacts. For this, we have taken various initiatives to improve air quality management and emission reduction at  . We have gone for extensive plantation of air purifying plants and trees inside and outside the terminals of Delhi Airport. This initiative significantly improved the air quality at the airport and its vicinities and the air quality at the airport is regularly monitored by various authorities,” said a DIAL spokesperson.
 
 Experts say using such species have high benefits in the long run which include naturally moderating temperatures in hot areas, reducing pollution and preventing wastage of water. The Delhi airport is currently ranked among the top 20 busiest airports in the world and is the seventh busiest airport in Asia.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
