AHMEDABAD: The afternoon of February 24, 1943 was a restless one for young Prahlad Vaidya — who was studying Einstein’s General Theory of Relativity in Varanasi — as he was eagerly awaiting news on Mahatma Gandhi’s health. 

 Gandhi had been on a fast for the last 13 days and his health was deteriorating. This was the light bulb moment for Vaidya, suddenly got inspiration from the sun and realized that the Schwarzschild metric, describing gravitational mass outside a spherical mass did not take into consideration radiation emitted by objects like a star.
 
  After seeking directions, Vaidya, working under Prof V V Narlikar, the pioneer of relativity studies in India, worked on equations and came up with the ‘Vaidya metric’ to describe the principles of relativity. The metric is still used today to understand relativity.
 
   , born on May 23, 1918 in Junagadh, would have turned 100 on Wednesday. Vaidya had been vice-chancellor (V-C) of   University (GU), chairman of Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC) and member of the   ( ). However, he is better known as a lifelong exponent of science and mathematics. Vaidya died at 91, at his residence in Ahmedabad in 2009.
 
 Pankaj Joshi, professor of astronomy and astrophysics at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), said that the Vaidya Metric or solution has become useful for astrophysicists in a number of investigations of the universe. “One example is to determine when stars become black holes at the end of their life cycle and when they become naked singularities or fireballs,” he said.
 
 Reminiscing about Vaidya, Joshi said he had visited Vaidya when he became V-C of GU. “Vaidya was proud that he had got a blackboard installed at the V-C’s office for the first time ever, so that he and others can work on mathematics whenever they wanted. He was indeed a life-long teacher,” said Prof Joshi.
 
  Prof Arun Vaidya, former head of the department of mathematics at GU, and Vaidya’s nephew, said that few know that Vaidya gave a number of popular lectures even in the pols of Ahmedabad, when Sputnik 1, the world’s first artificial satellite, was launched in 1957. He spoke about the event’s importance and its implications.
 
 A Gandhian through and through
 
 Khadi and a bicycle were Vaidya’s trademarks. In his book ‘Chalk and Duster,’ Vaidya says that he was the odd man out when he joined the highbrow Gujarat College in 1955. Where all the teachers wore western style clothes. The students tried to make fun of him but Vaidya soon won them over though his teaching and student-centric approach. Arun Vaidya says Vaidya tried to use a scooter for while, but after an accident, stuck to a bicycle for the rest of his active life.
 
 Few know that Vaidya was one of the earliest teachers involved in making Vallabh Vidyanagar an education hub. In his book ‘Aapni Mongheri Dharohar’, Arun Vaidya notes that they were on a tour across America in 1964 and faced trouble in getting a vegetarian meal in Los Angeles. Vaidya then got hold of a telephone directory and called a few Patels. He found a former student of his from Vallabh Vidyanagar. The student remembered him reverently and the group managed to get an Indian meal.
 
 In his youth, Vaidya was member of the Ahimsak Vyayam Mandal, founded to support Mahatma Gandhi’s movement, and his penchant for exercise kept him healthy till a ripe age.
 
 
