With the appointment of   as Foreign Secretary of India and  , as Secretary, Economic Relations, the Indian High Commission in Malaysia has become the headspring of high-profile posts in the Ministry of External Affairs, MEA, India.

 Coincidentally. 
 
 Prior to the incumbent Mr Tirumurti, Mr Gokhale served as High Commissioner in Malaysia, joining in 2010, until he was given a posting in Germany, in 2013. He then moved to the weighty and crucial position of ambassador in China, where he is credited with smooth-rolling the Doklam crisis.
 
 And interestingly, today when Mr Gokhale vacated his seat, it was the position of Secretary, Economic Relations; one which Mr Tirumurti, takes over.
 
 The coincidences don't end here. 
 
 Gokhale as Secretary (ER) was one of the senior-most Indian Foreign Service Officer, (1981 batch) for that assignment and now Tirumurti in as Secretary (ER), he becomes the youngest IFS (1985 batch) to manage this significant office.
 
 In Malaysia, both Gokhale and Tirumurti, took on the strategic role of energizing the Look East policy of the Indian government, which was later transformed to  , under Prime Minister Modi's government. 
 
 PM Modi's visit in 2015 for the   Summit saw a briskness in the entire economic forays of India into ASEAN nations. What helped further was India's 'Centrality of ASEAN' philosophy which in turn accelerated the Act East, while China continued to bolster its presence in the region.
 
 The presence of all the 10 leaders of ASEAN few days ago in the Republic Day celebrations of India, was one of the impressive evidences of that 'Centrality' doctrine.
 
 Today, Malaysia and India are closely working on strategic partnerships on defence, cyber-security, higher education, Ayurveda and many other areas. The positivity is so high that the Indian government is keenly looking at Malaysia's model on anti-terrorism measures.
 
 Most important, by starting off the Indian Cultural Centre in 2010, Gokhale and then Tirumurti, taking it forward, have engaged the Indian-descent population of Malaysia, bringing them closer to their roots. Today, Malaysia boasts of an Indian diaspora which is eager to impact societies and economies back home; clearly the result of India's foreign mission giving a vibrant platform to their voice.
 
