Bathinda: Concerned over a number of students complaining of complications after taking the measles rubella (MR) vaccination, a team from the Centre visited Bathinda on Tuesday. The team comprising WHO sub-regional coordinator S Srinivasan and Union health ministry representative Dr Gomti visited two wards of the Bathinda civil hospital to collect details about problems faced by the children post-vaccination.

 The immunisation authorities from Punjab also collected samples of vaccines and syringes to be tested at Central Research Institute (CRI), Kasauli. The cultures (blood samples) of students were also collected to check whether these are virus induced or vaccination induced. 
 
 Meanwhile, as five new cases were reported in Bathinda since Monday night, the vaccination was suspended in Bathinda urban area for a day on Tuesday.
 
 Gurnoor Kaur (6) of Jai Singh Wala village had died on May 5, a day after getting vaccinated. Another 14 cases of children with stomach pain, fever and rashes were reported on Monday and five on Tuesday. Till Monday, 60,000 children had been vaccinated in Bathinda district, when the target is to vaccinate 4.10 lakh children.
 
 Srinivasan and Gomti visited the children admitted in hospital and got every detail about complications. They avoided interacting with media and said the report would be submitted to the health ministry.
 
 Meanwhile, state immunisation officer Dr G B Singh, accompanied by Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Hari Narain Singh, visited some schools and talked to children. He told TOI said nearly 20 students with minor complications had been reported in Bathinda but the situation was not alarming. “The health authorities suspended the vaccination only in Bathinda urban on Tuesday to collect samples and to instil confidence among people about vaccination as some students and parents had scared for some cases turning up at hospital. The samples are being sent to CRI Kasauli,” he said.
 
 The civil surgeon said 20 students had reported to the hospital with health issues and 10 had been discharged. “We are keeping a 24-hour vigil on the condition of students,” he said.
 
 
