MUMBAI: Nearly 90% of the   protesting at   are landless tribal farmers who have been tilling   for generations. They want the land to be transferred to their name under the   so that they can benefit from various government schemes, including the farm loan waiver scheme.

 Laxman Raut, a third generation farmer from Dindori taluka in  , labours on 4 acres of forest land on which he has planted 100 teak trees, 50 mango trees and also cultivated paddy and pulses. “My land is a rainfed one, which means I only cultivate for four months a year. The rest of the year I work as a farm hand to feed my family,” Raut told TOI. He added that as the 4-acre land is not in his name, private money lenders charge highrer interest on loan. “I have a Rs35,000 loan. But as I had taken the money from a money lender and not the bank, I am not eligible for the state loan waiver scheme. All these benefits do not reach us as the land is not in our name,” said Raut.
 
 
  
 
 Mangesh Pagi (28), also a third-generation landless farmer from Ambapani village in Peth taluka in Nashik, has a similar story. “I grow rice and at the end of the season, I get around 13 bags of rice, of which I keep five bags for my family. I hardly earn anything from the eight bags that I sell,” said Pagi.
 
 The Forest Rights Act seeks to recognize and vest the forest rights and rights for occupation of jungle land with forest-dwelling   and other traditional dwellers who have been residing in such lands for generations but whose rights could not be recorded. While the Act came into effect in 2006, several tracts of land continued to be notified as forests despite members of various adivasi communities tilling them for years.
 
 State officials said of the nearly one lakh applications under FRA Act pending with the government, 30,000 are from Nashik district. So far, the government has transferred 3.5 lakh acres of land in the name of over 1.5 lakh individuals.
 
 Achala Dankadale, one of the protesting farmers, said this is not the first time they have agitated for the transfer of land demand. “Five years ago, I was jailed for 15 days because we blocked the highway and clashed with the police in Nashik,” she said. Disappointed with the government’s “non-action”, Dankadale said this is the last time she will   for her right. “I have walked 180km in 40 degrees Celsius for six days. If I do not get my land now, then there is nothing more I can do.” 
 
  on Monday said the state government has already settled 50% of the claims made by tribals under the Act. “The rest of the claims pending since 2006 will be settled within six months. The chief secretary will review after two months on settlement of all pending claims,” he added. On giving ownership rights of forest patches to tribals cultivating them for years, Savara said the issue will be resolved within two months. 
 
 (With agency inputs)
 
 
