NAGPUR: With Kanak Resources Management Ltd (KRML) clearly mentioning its intent against door-to-door garbage collection from June 1 demanding increased charges,   ( ) has started exploring alternatives to tackle the issue.

 
 
  
 
 Municipal commissioner Virendra Singh has convened a meeting of sanitation department officials along with KRML on May 14.
 
 On Tuesday, additional deputy municipal commissioner Rajesh Mohite and health officer (sanitation) Dr Pradip Dasarwar convened a meeting of women self-help groups (SHGs) to explore the possibility of taking up door-to-door garbage collection and segregation in the city. The meeting was also attended by director of city-based NGO Centre for Sustainable Development, Leena Budhe.
 
 A senior official from the sanitation department said the move was to have a ‘Plan B’ ready for the NMC. “We are formulating a scheme under which self-help groups will be incentivised for collecting wet and dry waste,” he said.
 
 He said that roping in self-help groups to tackle the garbage menace would benefit the NMC as well as bring revenue to the women. “The NMC is already spending around Rs5 crore on garbage collection and if the SHGs are engaged, we could save at least half of this every month and some of this money can be channelized towards the self-help groups,” said the official. “Each self-help group will be provided with a beat comprising 1,000 households for door-to-door garbage collection.”
 
 The NMC, in association with NGOs, will provide training to the SHGs at zone levels where women will be invited from these groups and they will be given training on how to segregate waste. “Their training will include waste segregation, which bin is for what kind of waste, colour representation of waste bins and how to differentiate between wet and dry waste,” the official said.
 
 It is important to pass on the method of segregation to the residents to avoid any mix up of waste being handed over to the garbage collectors during the door-to-door collection.
 
 As per the proposal, the SHGs will provide seven-day training on segregation of waste to residents while collecting garbage door-to-door. From eighth day, they will collect only segregated waste, the official said.
 
 “It is not difficult. If wet and dry waste is segregated at source then it is very easy for us treat it. Dry waste will help generate revenue as it is mostly recyclable. Besides, plastic strewn on the roads will also disappear,” he said, adding the heaps of garbage from dumping yard too will vanish.
 
 To a query, the officer said the NMC will help the SHGs to procure vehicles for lifting garbage. 
 
 
