KOCHI: Marriage is no longer the norm, and youngsters with disposable income are increasingly willing to remain single. However, housing societies or apartment associations in the city seem to be unaware of the social changes happening around. They continue to harbour the age-old dislike for singletons by formally stating their preference for families while renting apartments and houses. 

 A mail sent out by the apartment owners' association of JM Manor, a residential complex at Kaloor, has triggered a controversy over providing accommodation to single persons. Following a general body meeting of flat owners recently, the association requested all members "to prefer families and avoid bachelors when letting out apartments on rent."
 
 The stance taken by the apartment owners association has invited wide-spread criticism from various quarters including legal experts, Apartment Owners' Apex Association (AOAA) and the Confederation of Real Estate Developers of India (Credai).
 
 Single people come to the city from other places to take up jobs or for academic purpose. There are singletons who opt to buy their own apartments and live in it, while there are others who prefer rented premises. Then there are divorcees, people living separately, widows, widowers and those even co-habiting.
 
 Credai has raised severe objections against the growing trend of discriminating people on the basis of marital status. The real estate developer's body said marital status of an individual is not a criteria for buying an apartment or residing in it. "Marital status should not become a factor and people cannot be discriminated. We have to abide by the law of the land," said Credai (Kerala) chairman Najeeb Zackeria.
 
 He said studio, single bedroom and even 2BHK apartments generally targeted single people. "There are certain challenges, like their lifestyle, work timings or free movement when bachelors are provided accommodation. The solution is in working out a strategy which promotes a healthy and peaceful relationship between people residing in the same complex," he added.
 
 Meanwhile, AOAA considers such dictums from individual apartment associations as an infringement on the right of individual flat owners. They have instructed member associations to stay away from moral policing.
 
 "Owners have the right to decide whether they should give their property on rent and to who they should rent out their apartments. . If tenants create public nuisance or get involved in activities which are barred by law, the owner can inform the police, and proceed to evict them," said AOAA president, VK Shankarankutty.
 
 Legal expert advocate Jacob Mathew Manalil said that the stance of apartment associations reflect the narrow mindedness of the society. "The law does not stop owners from renting out their premises to single people. Associations cannot interfere in such matters. Our society is still conservative, and it yet to accept the changes in society," he said. 
 
 However, Manalil also said that associations can interfere if a flat is being used as a hostel or accommodates more number of persons than specified.
 
 
