PUNE: In the days of non-existent mobile phones and playstations, long hours spent deflecting wooden coins to round corner holes on a square plywood board was a prime distraction during the school vacations. Indeed,   as a sit-down game had a charm of its own then, giving the energetic and raucous street cricket, gilli-danda and kabaddi a run for their money. 

 Parents, as an indulgence or simply to stave off the holiday ennui in their children, would buy a carrom board that lasted till the surface puffed up or the bumpers on the sides spewed wood shavings due to the constant strikes. The less fortunate children from the mohallas and bastis would seek the carrom clubs in their areas, but parental reproach was certain as these places were also known for gambling on games. 
 
 Carrom remains in a transitional phase but much of the past has seen a makeover, says Shekhar Chavan, a professor with the Suryadatta Group of Institutes in Pune and the secretary of the Poona District Carrom Association. Around 16 carrom houses in Pune city and a few others in Pimpri Chinchwad are registered with the association, abiding by the rules of play as well as decorum. Then there are numerous small carrom clubs which also have players signing up with the association for tournaments.
 
 The rules of the game have seen several changes over time. Those who have played carrom at home will know of the 29-point “board” but international rules now allow for 25-point games, where pocketing the   fetches 3 points, not 5. The queen is of no value after a player notches 21 points. A contest involves 8 games; the winner is the one who scores 25 points first or who secures maximum points after 8 games are completed. Home shots are still allowed. 
 
 Gone are the ivory strikers of old, which seasoned players kept safely in cushioned circular cases. Strikers nowadays are made of the same plastic material that is used in snooker balls and weigh 15 grams or less. Coins glide across the board surface aided by boric powder, concerns over its toxicity notwithstanding. Some Western countries prefer potato starch to boric powder.
 
 The ongoing Ramzan month sees players coming in droves till late in the night to Irfan Shaikh’s carrom house at Kausarbaug off  , close to the now-famed iftar eating places. There are 15 boards here, the most any club in the city has. Huddled around these boards, players devote equal time to their play and wiping their sweaty palms, the latter a result of the heat generated from the overhead filament bulbs ensconced in conical metal shades. The fans can’t whirr here for relief as the boric powder would get blown away.
 
 As at most carrom houses, the charges here are a nominal Rs 30 for an hour’s play. Shaikh, who runs a furniture business, is obviously putting in his own money to pay for the rent of the premises, electricity and purchase of boards. A new board costs around Rs 7,000, but a good player would practise on it only for one-and-a-half year or so. 
 
 Chavan justifies this, saying top players today won’t chance their skills on lesser boards. “Players these days have a very strategic and scientific approach to the game. For instance, you find many a player using the exact same strike power while making a   at the start of every game. The coins too will come to rest in exactly the same position as in the earlier breaks,” he says. 
 
 But while players are increasingly setting the bar higher, the game is still not attracting big bucks. The budget for the nationals held in Pune recently was a trifling Rs 40 lakh. Though the tournament drew around 800 people from all states, including players and officials, the district association had to tap sponsors, MP and MLA funds, central and state aid, and also bring out a souvenir which fetched money from advertisements. 
 
 Pradeep Bartake (64), who runs Janardhan Carrom House, the oldest one in the city since 1974, agrees that the player profile has gone up over the years and the facilities at clubs are far better. However, incentives or the lure of free participation is important for getting the numbers for tournaments, he says. Giving an example, he points out that the carrom tournament for the mayor’s trophy around two months back drew 1,450 participants, but quiet a few of them were lured chiefly by the free tracksuits and Rs 300 per day offered to them.
 
 There are, however, top-notch players who owe their all to carrom. Like 37-year-old Yogesh Pardeshi, who as a child had seen his family struggling to make ends meet. A winner at the prestigious world carrom championships and two world cups, Pardeshi is now a manager with the   solely for his playing skills. Several other players in the country have landed government jobs too, he says.
 
 Governments need to loosen their purse strings too, says Pardeshi. He points out that the Maharashtra government, in an unprecedented move, gave Rs 70 lakh each to three state players who shone in the Birmingham world championship held in 2016.
 
 In the end, though, it is purely the love for the game that keeps it going. Pradeep Jadhav (76), a retired dentist, has been playing since 1962 and shows up daily at Shaikh’s carrom club after shutting his denture-making shop. He recalls playing at a club near Alpana talkies in the early days where the hourly fee was just two paise. An ivory striker would then cost a princely Rs 9, but Jadhav says he can’t get one these days even though he is willing to offer Rs 5,000.
 
 
