Mohali: The cause of death of   Guleria, a  , has become a mystery for Mohali police as the special investigating team ( ) constituted to probe the case is still under dilemma and now relies on the statement of Lt Col Baljit Singh Sandhu, owner of Forest Hill Resort and World Wide Immigration Consultancy Services (WWICS), to ascertain how Abhishek died.

 Though the SIT is confident about the involvement of Lt Col Sandhu in the case but till date has failed to trace his whereabouts. Lt Col Sandhu has been evading questioning since March 25, the day Abhishek’s body was recovered. SIT also obtained non-bailable arrest warrants of Sandhu from the court.
 
 SIT head IG Shashi Prabha said, “At present we are working on it as a murder case. It will be conclusive once we record the statement of Lt Col Sandhu after he is arrested. The motive of crime is also yet to be ascertained. The fact that the three employees worked on the orders of Sandhu has been ascertained. Sandhu can be heard in an audio recording directing one of his employees to go as per the plan. Searches are on to trace the whereabouts of Sandhu at present.”
 
 However, police are also yet to accomplish how Abhishek entered the Forest Hill Resort at around 11.50pm as he was spotted roaming outside the resort in CCTV (Closed-circuit television) camera footage but there is no evidence of him entering the resort. 
 
 After CIA arrested the three accused—Gurvinder Singh Bains, Balwinder Singh and Tarsem Chand—while returning after allegedly dumping Abhishek’s body near Basol village forest area on Pinjore-Baddi road, it was said that they confessed disposing of the body on behest of Lt Col Sandhu during their interrogation. 
 
 Police added that the three had also confessed fishing out the body from STP water tank inside the resort in Nayagaon. 
 
 After that police issued summons to Sandhu under Section 160 of the CrPC for recording of his statement forth police by March 28. But, Sandhu failed to appear. On March 28, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Suresh Arora constituted special investigation team (SIT) to probe the death case of Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) employee Abhishek Guleria.
 
 
