NEW DELHI: A Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) and a Non-Commissioned Officer were martyred in a terrorist attack on the   in Jammu in the early hours of Saturday. Three terrorists have also been killed in retaliatory action. The operation is still on.

 
 JCO M Ashraf Mir and NCO Hony Lt Madan Lal Chaudhary lost their lives in the attack launched by a group of heavily-armed Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists early Saturday morning. Both martyred soldiers belonged to J&K.
 
  
  
 
 
 The Army in a media briefing confirmed that two terrorists have been killed in the counter-operations. A third infiltrator was killed later in the evening. Arms and ammunitions, including AK-56 rifles and hand grenades have been recovered from their possession.
 
  
  
 
 Nine people, including five women and children received injuries in the attack. Two of them are in hospital in critical conditions.
 
 150 residential houses within the complex have been evacuated. Operations will continue till all terrorists are apprehended or killed, the Army said.
 
 The terrorists breached the rear side of the camp of the 36 Army Brigade, barged into the JCO family quarters in the garrison and opened fire.
 
 "Around 4.55am, suspicious movement was noticed by the santri. The santri bunker was fired upon and they retaliated. The number of terrorists isn't known, they've been cornered in one of the family quarters," Jammu IGP SD Singh Jamwal had said.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 "Due to presence of women and children in the housing colony, the operations are being progressed cautiously to minimise casualties," the Army said.
 
 According to sources, choppers and drones are being used to keep close watch on the movement of the terrorists. IAF para commandos were also airlifted to Jammu from Udhampur.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Home Minister   spoke to the J&K DGP and directed MHA officials to look into the matter.
 
 Later in the day, Singh said he didn't "feel it is fit to comment on it since the operation is still underway. But be assured that our forces and jawans are doing their duty, they will not let you down."
 
 Following the attack, a high alert was sounded in Jammu and security was beefed up in and around the city.
 
 Intelligence inputs had earlier warned of an attack on the army or security establishment by JeM in view of the death anniversary of   who was hanged on February 9, 2013, reported PTI.
 
  
  
 
 The camp, which is spread over many acres of land, is located adjacent to several shopping arcades and motor showrooms, and private schools on the by-pass in the heart of Jammu city. This is the second time it has been targeted in 10 years.
 
 In 2006, terrorists carried out a suicide attack at the camp in which 12 soldiers were martyred.
 
 
 
 
