LUCKNOW: The Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir Nirman Nyas has on Friday expelled   following his ‘irresponsible’ comments about  , the sacked executive committee member of the   (AIMPLB). Mishra had raised allegations of bribery against  .

 This is, however, not the first time that the Nyas has expelled Mishra for taking undue advantage of the Nyas’s name for “gaining unnecessary publicity”.
 
 Mishra was the national general secretary of the Nyas, formed in 2008 and headed by   of Ayodhya. He had accused Maulana Nadwi of asking him for Rs5,000 crore, 200 acre of land and a Rajya Sabha seat as bribe for furthering the cause of out-of-court settlement in the   dispute. “Amarnath Mishra was part of our organization but his irresponsible comments and allegations against the Maulana compelled us to expel him. If he wants to make such statements he should do so in personal capacity but not ruin the organization’s cause and name with it. We have nothing to do with any of the allegations he made,” said Mahant Janmay Jay Sharan.
 
 A similar action had been taken against Mishra earlier in 2017 by the Nyas in an emergency meeting called on November 17, 2017 after which he was expelled on November 21. “Then too he had made totally irrelevant and uncalled for statements that were against the Nyas’s efforts towards peaceful settlement. He was taken back but with a warning after he profusely apologized. This time the water has gone above our head and there will be no turning back,” added the Mahant. Reacting on his expulsion, Mishra said, “This does not matter to me and it will not stop me from peacefully working towards Ram temple construction that I have been doing for the past 30 years. I am part of several such organizations. This expulsion only means that both Sri Sri and Nadwi are up to some deal in the Ayodhya issue and I am not up for any form of dealing in it.”
 
 On Friday again, Art of Living (AoL) founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar reiterated his stand on Mishra, declaring that he is not a part of AoL. Also, that he is neither a close aide of Sri Sri nor does he represent him. “It is unfortunate that vested interests are trying to discredit and sabotage initiatives in the direction of an amicable settlement in Ayodhya dispute. There can be no settlement through deals or force, but only with amity,” he said.
 
