Kolkata:   tea, the crush-tear-curl version of your morning cuppa, from Halmari   estate of Assam has created a world record by fetching Rs 700 a kilo in the pan-India e-auction from Kolkata on Tuesday. The last global-best price for CTC tea in auctions was scripted by a second flush variety from the same garden at Rs 600 per kg on July 14, 2016.

 In Sale No. 17, auctioned by city-based J Thomas & Co, renowned south Kolkata retailer Mahabodhi Tea House bought 307.8 kgs of first flush Halmari Broken Orange Pekoe (BOP) at Rs 700 per kg. 
 
 The buyer and other industry experts believe that this variety of exclusive CTC can command a price range of Rs 1,000-Rs 1,200 a kilo in the retail market in India and abroad. CTC, unlike its costlier cousin orthodox tea, is considered a mass variety and savoured by over 90% of the tea drinkers in India. 
 
 Partha Sarathi Dutta of 75-year-old Mahabodhi Tea House, which has two family-run outlets in city, told TOI: “This is our best CTC catch so far. But, the Tuesday’s price peaked because of many factors such as high counter demand for fresh first flush CTC and last-minute fierce fight of six buyers. One of the bidders had even quoted a price of Rs 699 for this tea.” 
 
 On why Mahabodhi went for this tea by quoting such a big price, Dutta reasoned that the tea has a unique sweetness, flavour and bright liquor. “It gets a colour of raw turmeric when prepared with milk. If exclusively packed, this limited edition could be exported to the discerning buyers of the UK and the US,” he added.
 
 Halmari, the undisputed CTC topper from the plush plains of upper Assam, had broken the upper limit at the pan-India e-auction as many as three times in 2016 auctions and created a stir among the CTC aficionados. The garden is owned by city-based Amarawati Tea Co. 
 
 Dissecting the character of the record-breaking tea, Krishan Katyal, CMD of J Thomas, the world’s largest tea auctioneer, told TOI: “High quality CTC teas from Assam are receiving strong enquiry at premium prices compared to the same time last year. The Halmari was the best on offer this week. The price is a reflection of appreciation and acknowledgement for an exceptional cup.” Halmari first flush has grabbed a price of Rs 469 on April 17, followed by another record of Rs 479 on April 19.
 
 “A unique blend of strength, body and flavour is the charm of this tea. It was prepared on the fortnight before March 27. The catalyst was a perfect combination of sunshine and rain. It is nothing but God’s grace,” said Soham Daga, executive vice-president of Amarawati Tea.
 
 Located 28km from Dibrugarh, the 374-hectare estate boasts of a rich loamy soil suited for high quality tea. “Such a phenomenal price realization amid a gloomy industrial environment will augur well for top quality teas, added Katyal. 
 
 
