Nagpur: While the proposed bill to regulate coaching classes still has a long way to go before it becomes a law, certain sections of it may be implemented as simple policy decisions. A senior education official told TOI that the government is strongly opposed to the integrated coaching business model and is hopeful that its open school scheme will provide a solution.  Under the integrated coaching business model, colleges allow the use of its premises to private coaching classes for either a fixed commission or share of revenue. The other business model, and more popular, is the off-site partnership in which colleges allow students to bunk college completely and spend their time at the coaching centre. In both models, schools are the biggest beneficiaries because they end up raking a substantial amount of cash without actually doing any work.  The education official said, “Colleges are double dipping with this business model. They charge regular fee from students and also take some share from the coaching institute.” In fact, many colleges in Nagpur are thriving only because of such tie-ups with coaching centres. This, however, is almost certain to change with Maharashtra State Open School (MSOS) starting from next academic session. The official, added, “MSOS will give students the freedom to spend their entire day at a coaching centre without having to worry about attendance. We will definitely start operations for MSOS from the next academic session.” A coaching class owner said the MSOS will be a game changer for their sector. “It will be a positive disruptive force because the current circus for students rushing to colleges from off-site coaching centres at short notice will come to and end. Everyone can have peace of mind knowing that the student can focus on preparations for both the board and competitive exam without having to attend college,” said the class owner. The ‘disruption’ which the owner talked about will also include revenue stream for colleges. Coaching class owners will no longer require services of colleges and save on hefty commissions. Education officials feel that admissions to regular college may decline if students are convinced about the advantage of studying through MSOS. Speaking to TOI earlier, school education minister Vinod Tawde had guaranteed that certificate from MSOS will be accepted across the country. “The credentials of MSOS’ students will be at par with those from any regular state school. Based on the academic certificates issued from MSOS, students can get admission in the next higher class even at a traditional school or college,” said Tawde.  Details about local centres for MSOS will be announced soon and some coaching class owners sense an ‘integrated’ approach to market. One coaching institute owner said, “As an extra facility, we can help our students to take admission in MSOS and coordinate for their practical and theory exams. This way the student can remained focused on their studies while all paperwork is handled by us.”