NAGPUR: Policing took an ugly turn, literally, when detection wing personnel from Pachpaoli police station used knives to forcibly cut the hair of 20-year-old Bhaskar alias  , a first year student of arts stream, on January 12. The cops were trying to extract information about an externee from Bhaskar. Shockingly, the student was also forced to shell out Rs4,500 to walk out of the police station without being implicated in a case.

 The incident has been described as shocking by activists and legal experts, who added the cops have transgressed their legal authority. Supported by some neighbours, Bharat’s mother Jyoti too is now keen to lodge a complaint against the cops.
 
 Bharat, who claims to have no crime record or even a complaint of any sort against him, said three cops had picked him up off the floor by grabbing his long hair from three directions. “While I was being kicked from behind, the cops pulled my long hair from different sides. Even before the cops used knives to cut off my hair, they literally pulled a clump of hair from the skin, inflicting unbearable pain,” he said.
 
 “Even as I kept on repeating that I had no information on  , the cops kept on torturing me at the police station,” said Bharat. He is still reeling from the humiliation of having his hair cut with knives by the police.
 
 Immediately after he was let go from the police station,   headed to a salon to rectify the damage to his hair. “I would have been laughing stock of neighbours and friends at college with the hair they left,” he said. “Senior officers should ensure that citizens are not tortured like this,” he said.
 
 On the day of the incident, Bharat had gone to enjoy carrom at Balabhaupeth. He had borrowed the bike of Vikrant Meshram to go to college at Katol Road. Incidentally, Vikrant’s younger brother   too is an externee. While heading towards college, Bharat ran into Rohit Parate, who is an externee.
 
 Interestingly, Parate was loitering near the police station despite being externed, and the police are only now trying to verify the fact. Parate requested Bharat to take him to Jaripatka, from where he could continue towards Katol Road.
 
 Bharat said he had no clue regarding Parate’s legal status or even his background. “I had just agreed to take Parate since he was an acquaintance who too played carrom. The cops spotted us and started coming after Parate. When the cops tried to catch Parate, he fled. I was nabbed and taken to the police station,” he said.
 
 Activist and advocate Tushar Mandlekar said the policemen are liable to be suspended in the matter. “Even if they wanted to question someone, the cops are expected to furnish a notice under Criminal Procedure Code and follow the Supreme Court guidelines,” he said.
 
 Former district government pleader Vijay Kohle too said the police have crossed the limit in cutting the hair. “The victim and his family should approach senior officers with a complaint and also file writ before the high court seeking damages,” he said.
 
 Zonal DCP   said an ACP is inquiring into the incident. “We need to know whether the incident has happened in the first place. Secondly, the youngster should also understand that he was found with an externed goon on his bike,” he said.
 
 
