By- 
 
CHANDIGARH: Their first final test—of accounts—was a lollipop for Class-XII students from the CISCE (Council for the  ) board, who had come prepared to face bouncers.
 
 Thursday’s test at Strawberry Fields in Sector 26 and St Xavier’s School in Sector 44 was easier than expected for the 18 candidates who came to first venue and another 47 who showed up at the last. The majority found the paper easy and scoring. The nervous start because of the pressure of good innings was soon over and the candidates looked relaxed while coming out of the hall. Most of them were doing high fives in joy while discussing the question paper.
 
 Some of the students said that the first examination had taken away their initial fear of the boards. 
 
 “I feel much relaxed after the   paper, whereas I was shaking with fear before,” said Simran kaur of St Xavier’s School. “The boards question paper is not such a bogey after all but easier than normal.” “Board examinations have a bad reputation of being tough. The word itself is so heavy that it builds up pressure. But after this paper, I feel relieved and hope the rest of the tests are similar,” said Ayush Sati of St Xavier’s.
 
 At Strawberry Fields, the students estimating their marks were satisfied with their performance. Candidate Ashutosh said: “The accounts paper was of average difficulty, which gives me more confidence for the next challenge.” Candidate Sukhmani Dhillon said: “This paper was easy for me and anybody who had prepared the entire year. The start is satisfying and I hope to give my best in the rest of the examinations, too.”
 
 The teachers judged the difficulty level as moderate. Accounts teacher Naresh Handa said: “It was a very kind of question paper that even an average student will be able to score well. For the very serious students, it was a cakewalk.” There were 80 marks for theory and 20 for practical. 
 
 The next big test is of physics on February 20, for science students. The Class-X examinations of the CISCE board will start from February 26 with English.
 
 
