AHMEDABAD: Was Pravin   ‘accidentally’ near Kotarpur on Monday evening or was he there as part of a premeditated plan? Also, was   chosen on purpose? These are some of the questions that have cropped up before the city crime branch which is investigating the ‘disappearance’ and reappearance of Pravin Togadia, international working president of  . 

 Sources in the police said that Togadia was admitted to the Chandramani Hospital at around 9:00 pm on Monday but his men were in touch with the hospital doctor (Dr Roopkumar Agrawal) since 4:30 pm. Further, following rumours of Togadia’s arrest, the VHP had started agitation in various parts of Gujarat.
 
 J K Bhatt, JCP (crime), on Tuesday evening said that Togadia had left the VHP office at about 10:45 am on Monday after telling the security guard that he was going out for work and would be back soon.
 
 “On the basis of the investigation done so far, we have ascertained that the man accompanying him was Dhirubhai Kapuriya. Kapuriya had been identified as the man with a beard by a SRP jawan. Togadia and Kapuriya had boarded an auto in which they reached the residence of Ghanshyam Charandas, a resident of Sangini Bungalows, Thaltej,” Bhatt said.
 
 Togadia and Kapuriya reached Charandas’s residence at 11:31 am but before they reached this place they had switched off their mobile phones. In CCTV footage, the two men can be seen entering the residence. At about 2 pm, Kapuriya left and after reaching Nehrunagar, switched off his phone.
 
 “At 7:52 pm, Charandas called his driver, Nikul Rabari, who drove Charandas and Togadia to Sardarnagar and dropped them there at 8:30 pm,” JCP (crime) said.
 
 “Charandas then used Rabari’s phone to call 108 and get an ambulance. Togadia was not identified at the time. Charandas had asked the paramedic not to waste time in the on-the-spot diagnosis and take them quickly to Chandramani Hospital,” Bhatt said. 
 
 He further said that Charandas had left the hospital after admitting Togadia.
 
 Bhatt said that Dr Roopkumar Agrawal of Chandramani Hospital was contacted by a man identified as Ramratan Trivedi who was also in contact with Charandas. Trivedi had called the doctor at 4:30 pm. Charandas had also called the doctor at 6 pm.
 
 “An analysis of Charandas’s location reveals that he was at his residence but he said in his statement that he was near   and Daskroi. We are investigating such discrepancies. We have just begun the probe and statements of a number of persons, including Togadia, are yet to be recorded,” Bhatt said.
 
 
