BENGALURU: Boys walked away with top honours in the Karnataka Common Entrance Test 2018. Only four girls figured among 13 students who bagged the top five ranks in four streams of engineering, agriculture, veterinary sciences and pharmacy.

 
  of Excellent PU Science College, Vijayapura, bagged the top rank in engineering and agriculture, while Vineet Megur of Shaheen PU College, Bidar, secured the first slot in veterinary sciences and Tuhin Girinath, Narayana E Techno School, Kundanahalli, Bengaluru, in pharmacy. Tuhin stood fourth in engineering. Aneeta James of National Public School, Indiranagar, was ranked fifth, and stood second in pharmacy.
 
 The results, announced on Friday, were delayed as the higher education department awaited a minister to take charge. The   sought approval from chief minister HD Kumaraswamy to allow officials to announce the results. The trend of boys outnumbering girls as toppers is a continuation of the last year’s results. Only five of 13 toppers are from Bengaluru. While five other toppers are from North Karnataka, two are from Dakshina Kannada district and one is from Tumakuru district.
 
 Narayan Pai from   from Dakshina Kannada was ranked second in engineering, followed by Debarsho Sannyasi from Jindal Vidya Mandira, Ballari. All engineering toppers are awaiting results of JEE Advanced, the gateway to IITs. Aneeta is waiting for NEET results too, though computer science is her first preference.
 
 
 
 
 
 Two girls figured among five toppers in agriculture: Mahima Krishna of   in Bengaluru (third) and SR Apuroopa of Sankalpa PU College in Ballari (fourth). Apuroopa was ranked second in veterinary sciences. Vaishvi PJ from Mangaluru bagged fourth rank in veterinary sciences.
 
 CET 2018 saw 1,92,905 of the 1,98,655 registered students taking the test. However, the cutoff for ranks remains the same as last year in all branches. In engineering, 1,46,063 students were ranked eligible for courses offered by colleges in Karnataka. Last year, over 13,000 seats in engineering colleges remained vacant after counselling was over.
 
 The test was held between April 18 and 20.
 
 
