GUWAHATI: The NDPP-BJP alliance's decision to choose Tuensang as the venue for Prime Minister  's first election rally in Nagaland on Thursday is significant in many ways. 

 First, Tuensang, which is also the headquarters of the district by the same name, is the centre of the Eastern Naga People's Organization (ENPO), that has been demanding a separate Frontier Nagaland state for quite some time. ENPO's proposed state comprises four eastern districts - Mon, Longleng, Tuensang and Kiphire - all of which border Myanmar. On January 18, ENPO had held negotiations with representatives of the Union home ministry over its demand. It had then threatened to boycott the election if the Centre did not accede to its demand.
 
 Second, eight of the 20 seats that   is contesting independently are located in the four eastern districts. The rest of the 40 seats have been allotted to NDPP.
 
 Third, political observers as well as security experts say owing to its location, Tuensang is "dangerously exposed to China and Myanmar". Aware of this, BJP is supportive of continuing talks between the Centre and ENPO. "The Centre is ready to have talks with ENPO again. There will be a home secretary-level meeting with ENPO on March 19," Nagaland BJP president Visasolie Lhoungou said.
 
 Justifying the choice of Tuensang as a venue for the PM's meeting, Lhoungou added, "The PM chose Tuensang because it is part of the state's most backward region." ENPO has made backwardness of the region as one of the key reasons for its demand for Eastern Nagaland.
 
 Fourth, Tuensang offered the PM an opportunity to tell the Naga voters about the Centre's effort to settle all political issues related to them. In his speech, delivered in Hindi and simultaneously interpreted to Nagamese (lingua franca of Nagaland), Modi said, "We are ready to hold talks with civil societies and other groups from here any time. We are also ready to have negotiations with ENPO." He added, "I know this area is very backward and we are going to consider special packages and development schemes for it." 
 
 Fifth, many Nagaland watchers pointed out that ENPO's statehood campaign could come in handy for the Centre to drive a hard bargain with NSCN (I-M) and other organizations demanding Nagalim or Greater Nagaland comprising Nagaland and Naga-dominated areas of Manipur, Arunachal and Assam. In 2015, the Centre and NSCN (I-M) had signed a Framework Agreement to find ways to settle the decades-old Naga question. BJP, however, ruled out any such possibility. "The two issues (Nagalim and Eastern Nagaland) are different. We will abide by whatever decision the Centre and our national leadership take," Visasolie said.
 
 ENPO is the apex body of six Naga tribes - Konyak, Khiamniungan, Chang, Yimchunger, Sangtam and Phom. It first raised the issue of Eastern Nagaland in 2005 and had held negotiations with the Centre in 2013 and 2015 before last month's talks.
 
 
