JAIPUR: The Gujjars stand a divided house over their quota demand. On Tuesday, two factions of the community held separate public meetings at different places in   district to decide on their course of actions to get the quota demand fulfilled by the state government. Both the factions later decided to hold another round of public meetings, separately on May 21 and 23, to finalise their strategies. 

 The   led by  , which has led the agitation so far, has threatened another agitation demanding 5% separate quota within the 50% cap by bifurcating the OBC quota. The other faction, Akhil Bharatiya Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti led by three-time Delhi MLA  , called for a peaceful resolution to the quota demand.
 
 The Bidhuri-led sangharsh samiti held its mahapanchayat at Moroli village and claimed to dissolve the Bainsla-led sangharsh samiti. The Bidhuri faction decided to constitute a 51-member fresh committee to pursue the quota demand. 
 
 
 
 
 They decided to hold another mahapanchayat on May 21 to decide on the future course of action. The Bidhuri faction will announce a state unit of their organisation also at the mahapanchayat.
 
 Bidhuri, while talking to TOI over phone, said the ruling BJP had promised in its manifesto that every year Rs 500 crore would be spent for the welfare of Gujjars and other four castes for strengthening the educational infrastructure in the backward areas but it has failed to implement these provisions.
 
 The Gujjar mahapanchayat convened by Bainsla outrightly rejected the proposal of the state government to wait for the report of the Rohini Commission set up by the Centre on their demand for bifurcation of the OBC quota in the state. The Centre had set up the Rohini Commission to study the proposal for categorisation of the OBC quota based on their backwardness. “Since the mahapanchayat was abruptly called off due to sudden duststorm on Tuesday, we have decided to hold another mahapanchayat at Peelukapura on May 23,” said Shailendra Singh, general secretary of the Bainsla-led Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti.
 
 “It was decided that we would pay tribute to the ‘martyrs of the 2007 agitation’ at Patoli and Peepalkheda in which 26 Gujjars were killed in police firing. It would be followed by a mahapanchayat at Peelukapura on May 23,” said Singh. He added the mahapanchayat rejected the state government’s proposal to wait for the report of Justice Rohini Commission constituted by the Centre to study the proposal for categorization of the OBC quota.
 
 Singh said, “The Rohini Commission is to study the categorization of the central OBC quota and the state government has so far not constituted any such commission or asked the state OBC commission to study the proposal at the state level.”
 
 He added, “Our demand is 5% reservation within the 50% reservation ceiling set by the Supreme Court and this is practically possible only by bifurcating the OBC quota.”
 
 
 
 
 
