NEW DELHI: No one, either individually or collectively, has the right to interfere in a marriage between two consenting adults, a   bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI)   said on Monday.

 
 The bench sternly told   not to assume the role of conscience keepers of society and said courts would go by the law and not tradition and ‘gotra’ considerations to determine the legality of a marriage.
 
 Senior advocate Narender Hooda, appearing for some khap panchayats, said khaps encouraged inter-caste and   as they had permitted Haryanvi men to marry women from other states given the skewed sex ratio in the state.
 
 “What the khaps oppose is ‘sapinda’ or ‘sagotra’ marriage between men and women or when they are within the prohibited degrees of relationship, a bar which is supported by genetic science. Khaps try to uphold centuries of tradition and act as conscience keepers of society,” he said.
 
 The apex court bench asked, “Who has appointed you as guardians of society or its conscience keeper? Do not assume that role... If a marriage is not permissible under law, there are courts to annul it. Khaps have no business determining the legality of a marriage.
 
 
 
 The Supreme Court again said the Centre was not taking the issue seriously when additional solicitor general Pinky Anand sought two more weeks to submit suggestions on crimes against inter-caste, inter-faith or ‘sagotra’ marriages. Constituents of gotras are broadly defined as having descended from a common male ancestor with khaps often ruling that marriage within this community is unacceptable.
 
 Social activist Madhu Kishwar intervened and told the court that brutal killing of couples in inter-caste or inter-faith marriages should not be referred respectably as ‘honour’ killing. “Strong action is needed to stop these hate crimes. Only 3% of these crimes are because of ‘sagotra’ marriage. Rest 97% is triggered by religion, caste and other issues. Take for example the Ankit Saxena killing in Delhi,” she said.
 
 But the court said it was not concerned with individual crimes. “We think we will constitute a high-level police officers’ committee to deal with all these law and order issues and devise a mechanism to protect couples in distress,” the bench said. “We are not concerned with khaps. But we want to make it clear that no one, either individually or collectively, can interfere in a marriage between two consenting adults,” it added. This drew support from Anand, who said the Centre was in favour of protecting civil and fundamental rights of every individual.
 
 The SC repeatedly reminded all about its ruling in the Nitish Katara murder case. On October 3, 2016, the SC had upheld life sentence to murder convict Vikas Singh and said, “One may feel ‘my honour is my life’ but that does not mean sustaining one’s honour at the cost of another.”
 
 
