JAMSHEDPUR: For many industrial workers who prefer a cup of tea early hours at the roadside tea stalls and eateries while on way to the work, it's troubling times. All tea stalls and roadside eateries in the city are closed since Sunday and shall remain so till Thursday as workers have gone home for holidays to celebrate  .

 In the wake of substantial shortage of helping hands, the shop owners have downed their shutters, inconveniencing a large chunk of the urban population which is habituated to sipping a cup of tea at the roadside. 
 
 "Not just company workers alone but people like us who prefer meeting a friend, relaxing or discussing a topic over tea in the evening hours are also facing difficulty," said 47-year-old Dhruv  , who runs a private coaching centre, on finding Kadma's popular restaurant Mathura hotel closed.
 
 The hotels in and around the Steel City employ workers hailing from surrounding villages and adjoining districts. The workers have however moved in groups to their native places for celebrating   and Makar Sankranti with family and friends. 
 
 "Tusu and Sankranti are the most celebrated festivals of the region and in the villages, they are an occasion for family get-together. Hence all natives, be it male or female, prefers to be at home on this festival," said 63-year-old Gorai  , a cooking staff at Jaiswal hotel, Sakchi, who couldn't make it home this year due to health reasons.
 
 Restaurant and tea stall owners said there's no point in keeping their shops open when there was no one to prepare the food items and serve the customers. 
 
 "I do remember in 1997 when I had to shut down the shop for four straight days on Tusu. I had suffered considerable business loss on the maiden year of establishing the hotel but since then it's a sort of annual affair and I am accustomed to it," said  , owner of Shau hotel, Baridih. 
 
 There are, however, a few eateries where only tea is served for limited hours in the evening and the heavy crowd rush is seen in such places. 
 
 "I prepare 150s cup of tea on average and close shop by 7 in the evening following two hours of business," said  , who has stopped serving snacks to the customers in the absence of the staff at his Vinayak hotel in Shastri Nagar which is quite popular for samosa and kachori. 
 
 
