His camera has introduced us to a world that’s vivid and bubbling with beauty. But PG  , who’s handled cinematography for films like Poo, Kanden Kadhalai and Saguni, says that he ventured into direction because he feels he hasn’t made it big as a cinematographer. The man, who’s making his directorial debut with  , says, “People identify me only when I give them the names of my films. Though I have no qualms, I felt I should do something more. And I strongly believe that direction will give me that big break I desire.”

 Madhura Veeran, which stars Captain Vijayakanth’s son   in the lead, has been in the news because of the subject it deals with — jallikattu. “I actually started work on the script in June 2016. Hip Hop Adhi’s video came out in August that year, and the protest happened much later. When I was working on the story, people in probably three-four districts, like Madurai, Trichy and Sivagangai, knew what jallikattu was. When I used to say vaadi, people would ask me what it was, because they knew it only as vaadivasal and they were not acquainted with its colloquial usage. 
 
 I started narrating my story to actors, and once the whole jallikattu issue came up, those who had heard my script called me up to say, ‘un story engeyo poiuduchu’. I didn’t have to explain to people the technicalities, and I could do away with the scenes that I had conceptualised to make people understand jallikattu.”
 
 Had the ban on jallikattu continued, would he have made the film? “Even before the protest started, jallikattu was banned in our state. So yes, I would have made the film irrespective of the outcome. The film’s about how people of five panchayats come together to conduct jallikattu and how it affects the life of a youngster,” Muthiah says, adding, “I actually wanted to debut with the remake of a Hindi film, but was scared that people would assume I don’t have stories to narrate. Also, people would expect me to make a thriller or visually appealing film because I was a cinematographer. But I wanted to break that entire notion. I’m from a village near Trichy, and I have grown up watching jallikattu in Manapparai and Sentharapatti. So, I decided to do a film based on this.”
 
 The film is set in Madurai, and he says there’s no other place that could bring out the emotions of jallikattu better. “Vaadi-a thorandha odi pora mattukku craze kedayathu. Adhu ninnu vilayadum,” he adds, “There are so many people who have dedicated their lives to jallikattu, and I met some of them for the film. Mudakathan Mani, who has won many awards, didn’t marry so that he could solely concentrate on jallikattu. Murthy even lost his voice in one of the accidents. But they are all passionate people.”
 
 Ask him why he cast Shanmugapandian in the lead, and he says, “Actually, when people suggested his name, I was not too sure. But once I started thinking about the similarities he has with the character, I thought he was apt. He plays a youngster who returns to his village after 15 years of staying in a foreign country. Like his character, he too is aged between 20 and 25 years, and is well-built. He is also from Madurai, but hasn’t been to his village in years. Plus, he is comfortable with the Madurai slang.”
 
 The director-cinematographer adds, “He lost about six kilos in a month. But why should all heroes have to have six-packs? He looks perfect the way he is in veshti-sattai.” He insists that there won’t be any clichéd scenes relating to the sport in the film. “Usually, it involves the hero taming the bull and marrying the heroine, or winning a bet. But in this film, there will be no such hackneyed scenes. In fact, my hero doesn’t fight or tame the bull,” he adds. 
 
 Did Captain have anything to say to him? “I heard that before choosing Shanmugapandian’s second film, they (  and Premalatha) heard more than 200 scripts. People also cautioned me to be prepared for interference. But, they were thorough professionals. I first narrated the script to her (Premalatha) and then, to Captain and his two sons the next day. After my narration, he said, ‘Chinna Gounder madhiri irukku’. I had told him that I’ve included some of his dialogues in the scripts. After the shoot, his wife called me up and said, ‘Neenga andha dialogue vechirukkengalanu kettaru’. Both were totally supportive,” says Muthiah, adding with a laugh, “We noticed that just like his father, Shanmugapandian’s eyebrows, too, raise whenever he performs in action sequences. And, he too, struggles in romantic sequences.”
 
 Muthiah has handled both direction and camera for the film. “After post-production, I realised I didn’t have much job and wondered if I should have learnt editing, too! There was no ‘director chair’ on the set because I would be on one camera and my assistant would be on another. The biggest advantage was that I didn’t have to depend on ADs to know the continuation. This way, I was able to wrap up shooting fast,” he says with a smile. So, will he continue directing? “Yes, but cinematography will definitely not take the backseat,” he signs off.
 
 
