LUDHIANA: The video of the anti-narcotics team of   being attacked by the kin of a drug peddler at the   near   has gone viral. The video captures the residents in an altercation with the cops. The residents have sticks in their hands and some are seen arguing with cops and some have gheraoed the police vehicle and vandalized it. 

 On Saturday, the Anti Narcotic wing arrested a woman named Aanchal of EWS Colony and seized 10 kg of cannabis from her possession. 
 
 A case under sections 20/61/85 of NDPS act was registered against her at the police station division number 7. During the raid, the relatives of the accused attacked the police team by pelting stones after which a case of attempt to murder has been registered against against Johny, Danny, Happy  , Rajan Burger, Sushil Kumar, Deepak Kumar and  , besides a woman and six other accused, who are yet to be identified at police station Division number 7. 
 
 Following this on Sunday the police conducted another raid at EWS Colony to arrest the accused for pelting stones at the police party. The accused have fled from the colony after locking their house. Inspector Surinder Pal, incharge at Anti Narcotic Wing said when the police team reached the EWS Colony, people started pelting stones from rooftops. 
 
 Their vehicles were vandalised and a woman constable Reena Rani suffered injuries.
 
 The accused meanwhile managed to escape. Officials added that the arrested woman has shared from where she used to procure cannabis. Besides the police have been getting call details of all the accused to reach out to their accomplices. 
 
 On the other side, Bimla Rani, a resident of EWS Colony has alleged that on Saturday the police party raided her home and ransacked the rooms. She alleged that the police have taken away cash and   form her house. On Monday the woman and her kin approached the commissioner of police R N Dhoke to file a complaint. 
 
 Dhoke said that Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (ADCP- headquarters)   has been marked inquiry to verify the matter. While Inspector Surinder Pal has refuted the allegations and said that the woman has levelled allegations to put pressure on the police. 
 
 
