CHENNAI:   is likely to lose more than Rs 10,000 crore a year if the 15th Finance   goes by the its terms of reference to calculate financial devolution. Apart from the impact owing to tweaking the population norms, the commission’s recommendations will also hit the subsidy schemes between 2020 and 2025, experts said.

 
 
  
  
 
 Economists said that Tamil Nadu has several schemes under which people are getting commodities either free of cost or at a lower price. The commission’s reference on subsidy is likely to affect the financial distribution between 2020 and 2025. Similarly, the commission will not agree to the financial projections thereby lowering the percentage for the state.
 
 A study done by Kerala-based Centre for Socio-economic & Environmental Studies shows the Finance Commission will use the population data of the 2011 census. This clause goes against the assurance given in Parliament with a view to encouraging population control.
 
 Tamil Nadu is on the top of the states with a potential loss of Rs 10,537 crore each year, followed by Kerala with Rs 7,773 crore and   with Rs 6557 crore, the study said. In the last financial commission too, Tamil Nadu lost its share of central taxes. The state, which was getting 4.969% of central taxes now gets only 4.023%, a loss of 0.94%.
 
 “It is true that Tamil Nadu and other better performing states in south and west will be losing as per the 15th Financial Commission’s term of references. At the same time, the commission must not punish better performing states and has to find a way to solve the issue,” said N R Bhanumurthy, professor of New Delhi-based National   and Policy.
 
 The best way to make all the states happy is to change the weightage of the terms of reference to calculate the financial devolution. “Each finance commission keeps changing the weightage of their reference for calculating the devolution for each state. Similarly, if the 15th Finance Commission gives a better weightage, performing states like Tamil Nadu will not lose at all or the loss will be less,” said Bhanumurthy.
 
 There is a term of reference in the commission, which is to measure the level of control or lack of it in incurring expenditure on populist measures. “Mostly, the term of reference on subsidy will not have a big weightage but the financial commission will have a separate chapter in its report in which it will criticise the states like Tamil Nadu for spending on freebies,” said a senior economist in Madras University.
 
 
