Amritar: After winning PR Award in the US, ‘We are Sikhs’, the $1.3-million ad launched by the National   (NSC), has been named finalist for the 2018 ‘Multicultural Community Engagement’ and ‘Social Activism’ Shorty Awards.

 Co-founder and senior adviser of NSC Rajwant Singh told TOI on Monday, “We are excited to be in the final for these two prestigious Shorty Awards that showcase importance and achievement of the ‘We Are Sikhs’ campaign online and in communities across the US.”
 
 The Shorty Awards honour best content creators and producers on social media, be it Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, Tumblr, Instagram and Snapchat. 
 
 Rajwant added that earlier winners include some of the most well-known entertainers, authors and celebrities across the globe for their influence in the media. These include Taylor Swift, Tyler Oakley, Casey Neistat, Hannibal Buress, Malala Yousafzai, Jenna Marbles, JK Rowling, Adele, DJ Khaled, and others, who represent top innovative and creative work professionals executing in social media for various industries.
 
 The NSC was launched in the wake of hate crimes against Sikhs and its mission is to promote a better understanding of the Sikh community in America and other western countries, and to project a positive image and profile of the Sikhs.
 
 “This is for the first time that the Sikh community has run a marketing campaign to change perception and we, the organizers of ,NSC are thrilled with unexpected attention and kudos from the entertainment, media and PR industry in the US,” said Rajwant.
 
 He added that their aim was to change hearts and minds of Americans by presenting the Sikh values of equality, freedom and community service in understandable ways in order to remove stigmas surrounding Sikhism and reshape perceptions of Sikh Americans.
 
 Shawn Singh Ghuman, communications director of NSC, said, “Digital media was an integral part of why We Are Sikhs campaign was so successful reaching millions of Americans across many demographics and effectively explaining more about the Sikh religion. We are excited that these efforts are being recognized.”
 
 
