BHOPAL: An Indian-born Pakistani citizen has appealed to external affairs minister for help after being repeatedly denied access to the   in Islamabad to apply for a visa.

 Gohar Khan, who lived in MP’s Sagar till her marriage to a Karachi-based businessman in 1998, is desperate to come home to see her ailing father. A mother of nine, her last visit to India was almost a decade ago.
 
 “What’s my fault? Being an Indian? Or marrying a Pakistani to keep my parents’ wish? I can’t even go to India for three days and see my ailing abbu,” says   in a tearful video that is doing the rounds of social media. Her father,  , will be operated at AIIMS-Delhi on Friday. 
 
 She tried to visit the Indian embassy in Islamabad on Tuesday but was allegedly turned away by security officials, with a blunt ‘no’ to her request for a visa. In desperation, she released a video and her family members in Sagar sought Sushma Swaraj’s intervention. “It takes several hours to reach the office of the high commission from my house in Lahore. If I start at 11pm, I’d be able to reach their office by 6am the next day. Leaving nine children at home and travelling over and over again for a visa is not easy,” Gohar told TOI on phone.
 
 “When I showed them a picture of my hospitalized and bedridden father, they asked me to file documents online. That will take another 30 to 40 days. What is the use of a visa if I can’t see him alive,” she pleaded. She claims to have produced all the necessary documents for a visa. 
 
 “When I got married, the Pakistan government gave me citizenship within 11 months. Now, all that I want from the Indian government is to allow me to see my dad for the last time,” she said, adding: “My children will never be able to meet their grandparents in India.”
 
 Officials of the Pakistan high commission have asked her to get a letter from the magistrate or verification by any ‘18 Grade’ officer with his/her payslip and other documents as enclosure. Her brother  , who lives in Delhi, told TOI that there have been other important family events, including bereavements, which she missed because she couldn’t come home. “There could be differences between the two nations and that should be resolved by diplomats, but why should people suffer? My appeal to the Indian government is to help my sister visit India,” Aslam told TOI.
 
 
