BATHINDA: Taking up the   case, a   court on Wednesday sentenced 25 persons, including three head constables of Punjab Police, to three years’ imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 11,000 each. The court acquitted 44 others for lack of evidence.

 The court of additional chief judicial magistrate Deepti Gupta pronounced the sentence in the 9-year-old case. The scam had rocked Moga in 2008 after being exposed by whistleblower Satpal Singh, who was also serving in police at that time.
 
 As many as 69 persons were facing trial in the case. These included three police officials, a postman, a clerk in the office of Moga registrar of births and deaths, a clerk at the regional passport office ( ), Chandigarh, and various passport applicants and travel agents.
 
 “While appraising the voluminous oral and documentary evidence adduced by the prosecution, the court held that travel agents, in active collusion with police officials, a postman and officials of the RPO, had woven an intricate nexus that included four distinct processes, including preparation of forged documents like ration cards, birth certificates, telephone bills, school certificates, submission of these documents before the passport authorities, wrongful verification of the forged documents by the police and ultimate issuance and delivery of passport,” said additional district attorney  .
 
 Head constables Jaswinder Pal Singh, Ranjit Singh and Gurdial Singh were accused of the conspiracy, who conceived the idea and were in a position to get same the executed while the travel agents actively pursued and pushed for execution of conspiracy. Postman Ranjit Singh, Didar Singh, a clerk at the Chandigarh RPO, and clerk Balwinder Singh also conspired, the prosecution had stated before the court.
 
 The travel agents and applicants those held guilty include Bhupinder Singh, Manjit Singh, Sukhdarshan Singh, Kulwinder Singh, Sham Sunder, Harbaksh Singh, Kanwal Bedi, Ramanjit Singh, Subhash Kataria, Baljit Singh, Gurdeep Singh, Mukesh Kumar, Ashok Kumar, Roopjit, Mehtab Chopra, Rajiv Puri, Rajiv Kumar, Pankaj Gautam and Balraj Singh.
 
 
