NAGPUR: School students from Nagpur district lag behind rest of the state, according to National Achievement Survey (NAS) conducted by a central government unit. The NAS, conducted by NCERT for Std III, V and VII, shows Nagpur was struggling to break into the top 15 in all segments that students were tested for. 

 NAS report gives a national and state-level picture, rather than scores for individual students, schools or districts. The purpose of these assessments is to obtain an overall picture of what students in specific classes know and can do and to use these findings to identify gaps and diagnose areas that need improvement. 
 
 Of the 36 districts in state, Nagpur’s best performance was a ranking of 19 for Std III’s maths subject. The worst performance was rank of 32 for language subject for  . (SEE TABLE). The pathetic performance of Nagpur students in higher classes is a cause for worry. 
 
 Shivling Patve, district’s education officer (secondary section), said, “We have taken cognizance of NAS report and are aggressively working towards rectifying the problem. We will be taking seminars of teachers and principals and streamlining the process. Everyone can rest assured we would improve our rankings from here on.”
 
 Vinita Bower, principal of  , said, “There is lack of effective teachers to train students on the syllabus. Sometimes it is not framed properly for preparation in advance for the students. Technology also play a major role in this development, which is again not available for the students.”
 
 Ashfaque Ali, a teacher from St. John’s School, said, “It is possible schools from rural areas of the district lack qualified teachers and many don’t have the in depth knowledge of the subject. Basic knowledge is left unattended which are some of the main reasons for poor test scores by the students.” 
 
 Nicola McLeod, teacher at St. Joseph’s Convent, said, “The education system needs to be streamlined even at higher level. The university courses offers are not income oriented. Also our examination system needs to be corrected. It is not systematic and full of goof ups. As of today, people do not want to employ students passing out of our state universities.”
 
 
