As accessories, hats are tricky at best. People wear it to create drama or as part of a theme. But if you are looking to bring hats back in style, here’s a heads up…

 Time was when stepping out of the house without a headgear would be considered a social and style faux pas. People, especially men, would pair whatever they are wearing with a hat/headgear – or in India a turban or topi, the style depended on which region you hailed from. Hats — so integral to being fashionable at one point — slowly slipped off the style consciousness. Some blame laziness, some say it lost its feasibility, few term it fussy and fuddy-duddy. But the fact remains that hats are not a mainstream accessory any longer. It’s for the ‘it’ crowd that gathers around the race tracks anywhere in the world — the Royal Ascot being a veritable hat parade. Or for costume dramas. 
 Now that fashion is experiencing a retro wave, the headgear is trying to make a comeback. Runways internationally showcased hats in their autumn-winter collection – Dior, Armani Prive, Chanel, Gucci being the prominent ones. In an article for LA Times Gregg Andrews, fashion creative director of a popular retail house said: “Today, hats are about self-expression. Hats are now a casual accessory that can turn a pair of shorts and a top into an outfit.” 
 
 
 Globally, hats are a tiny part of the $30 billion in sales (2012 estimates) of the women’s accessories market – say about 1 per cent. But, in terms of money, hat sales increased 4 per cent in 2011 over 2010, and continues to do so, according to a report from Accessories magazine and consumer research firm NPD Group Inc. The report credited the increase to celebrities, growing concerns about sun protection and to a “new generation of consumers”. More than half of hat buyers are women aged 13 to 34.
 Style consultant and grooming expert Yatan Ahluwalia is doubtful that hats will become mainstream fashion in India, even though, traditionally, many Indians have worn headgears. But if you are looking to make your chapeux the talk of the town, Ahluwalia mentions being careful about what you pick. “A hat is not a one size fits all.” Choose a shape and size that flatters and accentuates your natural features and rests well on your head – that means you have to try many hats. 
 
 
 To wear hats as a fashion statement, you have to pick the right occasion, time and season. Ahluwalia says, “The hat always has to complete the look or accentuate it. It should never clash with what you are wearing.” If you are looking to start a hat wardrobe (see box), start small – say, with two hats, one casual and other formal and one summer and one for winter. 
 If you are serious about wearing hats, make sure you store them well. Ahluwalia suggests storing it on a hat rack or head mould, as hats lose their shape and form if they aren’t put away properly. Never wash a hat – dry clean only.
 
  
  
 
 - Consider your hat needs. Is it for every day? An event? Fashion? Warmth or sun protection? It will help you decide better. 
 - Pick a flattering colour. 
 - Know the styles. Don’t just buy a fedora because it’s popular. Know the styles. 
 - Match it to your physique. A hat should be proportional to your body. Your hat should balance out your dimensions rather than exaggerate them. Also different face shapes need different hats. 
 - Consider your hairstyle. Many hats look best when long hair is pulled back and tucked under the ears.
 
 
 If you have to pin down a fashion moment for hats in popular culturte, it’s the five days of Royal Ascot races in June. From Tuesday to Saturday, top racehorses, royalty and hats come together just outside of London in a spectacle that goes back hundreds of years. The Ladies Day here is a grand parade of hats – the more outrageous, the better. In fact, hats became so over the top that in 2012 a dress code was imposed setting a minimum size for hats. In a run up to the races, milliners across the world are booked in advance.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Boho: berets, floppy wide brims, wide-brim fedoras
 Preppy: structured hats with a wide brim like bretons and boaters; cloches, fedoras
 Boyish: newsboy cap, fedoras, bowlers, boaters, beanies
 Vintage: Pillbox styles, fascinators, structured wide brims, wide-brim cloches
 Grunge: baseball hats, bowlers, soft berets or beanies
 
 
