KOLKATA: Bengal’s villages go to vote on Monday to decide who will run the three-tier local administrative set-up for the next five years, but the winner-loser debate this time has been overshadowed by a host of factors, ranging from the uncertainty over the date of voting, the multiple cases and hearings in the country’s and the state’s top courts and the unprecedented number of walkover winners.

 The poll also comes as a culmination of several weeks of large-scale violence in districts like Birbhum, Murshidabad and South 24-Parganas and apprehensions over whether the security set-up in place for Monday would be enough to prevent even more bloodshed. The signs 24 hours before the poll were ominous: there were reports of three deaths from West Midnapore and Malda, the newest flashpoints. 
 
 The state election commission (SEC), which worked overtime on Sunday to ensure that polling and security personnel reach their destinations before 7am on Monday, said: “We are keeping a close watch on the unfolding situation. We are taking periodic updates on the Bhangor situation.” It also made it clear that it had cautioned the state administration on the volatile south   districts, and that it has tasked them to act strongly. The commission said inclement weather was proving detrimental for the poll parties to reach their destinations and, in some cases, they will reach early on Monday.
 
 Polling begins at 7am and ends at 5pm. Counting will take place on May 17.
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, speaking to a private television channel on Sunday, wondered how arms and money were being brought into Bengal. “The administration will take strong action against any attempt to breach the peace,” she said. “We have already arrested Arabul Islam, even though he is contesting as a zilla parishad candidate. I appeal to all political parties to maintain peace. I would also appeal to people to come out and vote.” Banerjee also cautioned people against any deliberate attempt to instigate violence and urged people to remain alert.
 
 With   set to hear out a clutch of poll-related petitions on July 3 and the Calcutta High Court directive to the state to shell out compensation to victims of any poll-related violence, the poll body and the state are under added pressure, because of the judicial scrutiny.
 
 The ruling Trinamool, which had taken an unassailable lead before the votes were cast by winning 20,076 seats (34.2%) of the total 58,692 seats in the three tiers of rural local bodies, is contesting all the remaining seats, the only party to do so. The apex court has asked the SEC not to issue winning certificates in case of the uncontested seats.
 
 “The state election commission has made provisions for updating all records centrally. A giant screen will be put up at the SEC, which will show live updates about the election,” said  , SEC secretary.
 
 
