After   director   had clarified to us in March that the shooting of his debut Hindi directorial Jhund has been deferred indefinitely. We now hear that the project has hit another roadblock. According to a report in Mumbai Mirror, Amitabh Bachchan, who was supposed to feature in Jhund, has opted out of the project and has reportedly returned the signing amount as well. Bachchan’s role of a football coach in this film, was said to be inspired by the life of slum-soccer founder   and the film’s shoot was to start at the   (SPPU) campus in October last year.

 Now, we’ve learnt that the SPPU authorities have initiated the removal of the set that was erected on a playground in the campus. We tried to get in touch with Manjule but he remained unavailable for comment. As the fate of the film hangs in the balance, here’s a brief recap of the entire episode:
 
  
 
 Manjule had confirmed that the crew was scheduled to start shooting in the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus in October as soon as the set was ready. He had also informed that the Pune schedule would wrap up by the end of December. However, till February 2018, despite the set having been erected on time, the shoot hadn’t begun.
 
 
 
 Several student organisations had protested the allotment of the university’s playground for shooting purposes. The students had demanded removal of the set as it was hampering their daily routine. After talks with the authorities and Manjule’s assurance that the shoot would also involve students from the university, the protest was called off.
 
 
  
 
 
 Pune district authorities pulled up the SPPU authorities for allotting government land (SPPU is a government university) for a film shoot without prior permission from them. The filmmaker was asked to clear the set as soon as possible. Manjule had informed us then that he was expecting support from the local authorities and would be beginning the shoot towards the end of February.
 
 
 
 Soon after, the director issued a statement on social media declaring that the shoot of Jhund has been postponed indefinitely ‘due to technical issues’. It was widely reported that the ruckus over the use of the university’s playground was said to be the prime reason behind this delay. “As of now, we are not sure when we will start shooting. We will announce as soon as we finalise something,”   had told us during a recent interaction.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 After reports of Bachchan’s exit from the project surfaced, we spoke to university authorities about the status of the set removal (which was to begin in March). A visit to the campus revealed that the work on that front had still not been initiated from the filmmakers’ side. After much deliberation, the university authorities have taken the responsibility of clearing the set on their shoulders.
 
 
 — Inputs by Anup.Satphale@timesgroup.com and Preeti.Atulkar@timesgroup.com
 
