BENGALURU: For any average farming household in Karnataka, the 2013 national sample survey ( ) has identified an average monthly income of Rs 8,832.

 However, juxtapose this income with other findings of the NSS on outstanding loan per agricultural family per year at Rs 97,200, coupled with a lack of scientific minimum support price, input subsidy distribution and the steady rate of farmer suicides in the state appears not so dramatic. But with the 2018 assembly elections approaching, farmers’ suicides are bound to set the tone for political parties in the state.
 
 Be it the   or  , JD(S) or newfound parties like   (JSP), farmers’ suicides resonate in every rural constituency of the state. The estimated vote bank from the farming sector is around 1.3crore of the total 4.69crore voter population.
 
 The recent visit of BJP national president  , who cited over 2,000 farmer suicides in the past two years, clearly indicated that the saffron party is going to make it an integral part of their campaign. Shah is not off the mark, with the state agriculture department records citing 1,878 suicides in 2016-17 and 2017-18.
 
 BJP spokesperson Arvind Limbavali said the Congress was not able to utilize central government funds released for farmers, half of which were returned to the central government treasury, due to simple issues on correcting rights, tenancy and crops (RTC) records.
 
 BJP sources said the party will announce a loan waiver in its manifesto to address suicides due to increase in debt. State president B S Yeddyurappa has already announced that Rs 50,000crore will be set aside for farmers in distress, if he comes to power.
 
 The JD(S) has been harping on farmers’ suicides increasing year-on-year under the Congress government. State president   has assured farmers that his first task, if elected, will be to waive all farm loans to reduce the burden on farmers. “Within 24 hours of taking power, I will waive all loans,” he said at his rallies.
 
 Smaller parties like the JSP, which came into existence riding the farmer issue, are projecting complete independence from the state government’s “assistance” by constructing check dams for farmers and ensuring there is no property tax on farmlands in excess of Rs 10 per year per acre.
 
 However, the bigger challenge will be for the Congress party to convince farmers that they have done everything within their power to ease the pressure on burgeoning loans and lack of MSPs. From schemes like ‘land to the tiller’ and housing for farm labourers, to loan waivers up to Rs 50,000, the Congress has been consistently trying to maintain human connect with farmers.
 
 
