Kolkata: Deepa Malik is one of the most decorated athletes of the country. You probably don’t know that the 2012 Arjuna Award winner who had been left paralysed from the waist down because of a spinal tumour was the first Indian woman to win a medal in the Paralympics, having won silver at the 2016 Rio Games. The sad part is, you probably know more of the on-field shenanigans of Cameron Bancroft than Deepa’s achievements.

 With cricket hogging the limelight and sponsors pouring all their money into the “gentleman’s game”, few other   — apart from, maybe, football and kabaddi — get the attention they deserve. And if the condition of paraplegic athletes in the country is deplorable, it is even more appalling in Bengal. For sportspersons who anyway have it more difficult, lack of awareness, apathy and shortage of funds have dealt a huge blow.
 
 With no infrastructure, monetary support and recognition, Bengal’s para-athletes keep playing for the sheer love of the game.
 
 Shaheb Hussein, the track-and-field para-athlete who is 80% blind, says it is his “heart that helps him through”, in the absence of anything else. “It was only once that I received a monetary grant: Rs 12,000 from the Mamata Banerjee government,” says the person who, with a timing of 11.44 seconds, is a national record-holder in 100 metres. “After that, I approached a lot of ministers but to no avail.”
 
 Though a sizeable number of Bengal’s athletes represent India internationally, most fail to get a podium finish — and it can mainly be attributed to lack of money. Most of the para-athletes hail from not-very privileged families, and it is impossible for them to meet the demands of professional sport at the highest level: nutrition, medical support, gear, coaching and other necessities.
 
 “Shaheb’s sport calls for a balanced diet,” says his coach Golok Mondol. “His food should have nutritious items like chicken, pulses and dry fruits, apart from protein supplements. In Dubai (World Para Athletics Grand Prix), he fell short by a few milliseconds, which I’m sure wouldn’t have happened had he been on a proper diet.”
 
 But all may not be lost for para-athletes, thanks to the new concept of crowdfunding, aimed at benefitting sportspersons directly.
 
 Since funds are hard to come by, our para-athletes often have to depend on crowdfunding. If some are fortunate in getting help from large-hearted individuals, others have NGOs chipping in with assistance.
 
 Civilian Welfare Foundation (CWF), a city-based NGO working for Bengal’s para-athletes, launched an interesting campaign last year. Their “Adopt a para-athlete” scheme has aided at least 25 para-athletes of Bengal with a minimum support of Rs 1,500 every month.
 
 It’s not much, but every bit counts. “We campaign through our Facebook page and website, which helps establish a direct connect between donors and athletes,” says Shuvojit Moulik, a founder member of CWF. “In order to ensure a leak-proof system, we ask donors to deposit the money directly into the bank account of the athlete. Our only request to a donor is that the support should continue for at least a year.”
 
 The NGO also asks the athletes to sign a contract where the players are asked to give an undertaking that the money would only be used for the betterment of their sport, flouting which the funding would be stopped.
 
 This bit of help is far from enough for the state’s promising para-athletes who have represented Bengal across the nation and the country in international meets.
 
 “My hopes of playing internationals have been dashed several times even after qualifying,” says Rubia Chatterjee, a para-athlete who participates in shot put, discus and javelin events. Rubia has polio in her right leg and is mostly wheelchair-bound. “My husband,” she adds, “is a security guard and I have never been able to make a living from playing. For me, arranging for lakhs is impossible. Only last year, someone from Pune came to know about me and wanted to help me and that’s how I went for the internationals for the very first time.”
 
 In India, sportspersons (other than, perhaps, cricketers) are recognised only after they reach the pinnacle of success. Accolades are showered on them after they return home after their successes, but thanks to this “top-down approach” by government agencies, many fall short of the mark — not because of lack of talent, sadly, but because of the lack of infrastructure and funds.
 
 Prasenjit Adak, who coaches the players of Football Association for the Blind of Bengal (FABB), feels a little help in terms of infrastructure and monetary aid could push para-athletes a long way. “I have been coaching them (para-footballers) for a long time now. They need proper shoes, special footballs and, most importantly, a proper field but where is the money for all these?” Adak says, adding, “our players have played both at the national and international levels and have won medals but all they want is some recognition, which can boost their morale.” Adak, who is partially blind, sometimes doubles as a player himself.
 
 Shaheb’s experience of being turned away has an echo in the story of blind footballer Goutam Dey, an FABB player. “I was honoured with an award by a vernacular news channel and, on the dais, a minister had assured me of help. Later, when I went to his office, his secretary turned me away,” he says. “I did not lose hope. I went to his house to get some aid for the association but there, too, I was turned down,” he adds.
 
 Though several stadiums have been opened in the state in a bid to promote sports, Bengal still lacks proper infrastructure for para-athletes. Swimmers Tashkura Khatoon and Anamika Gorai shared their difficulties. “To cut a long story short, there is no infrastructure in Bengal; if there is something, nobody has informed me about it. It is really difficult for me to practice before the games, and all I have is a pond to train myself,” Tashkura, who is polio-affected in both legs, informs. The 30-year-old is now preparing for her HS in the hope of landing a job.
 
 Anamika, who is 14 now, was affected with hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy from a young age that rendered her limbs almost numb. Her mother, who works at a cake shop, said the treatment expense is high, and so is taking her to national and international games. “My daughter wins medals wherever she goes and, thanks to her coach and other people, we seldom have to think about money for sports. However, the state lacks in proper infrastructure,” she says.
 
 Like Shaheb, Goutam, Tashkura and Anamika, other para-athletes like Ujjwal Ghosh and Surajit Ghara too complain of lack of recognition and aid. “We do not want much in life. All we need is a little economic support. We know we can do it but we need that extra push and it would be wonderful if the government helps us,” says Surajit Ghara, who became a much-celebrated figure after his recent World Cup victory in blind cricket. However, that too was ephemeral, as job promises saw no resonance in reality.
 
 Minister of youth services and sports Laxmi Ratan Shukla assures that things are about to change. “The state government has started taking initiatives for para-athletes. We have identified many such players and have already started helping a few. More will be done in due course,” he says.
 
 Shukla also said that all grievances of para-athletes would be heard. “Anybody who wishes to be heard can always approach us, and we will definitely try to do something for them,” he adds, saying the government was in the process of building infrastructure for para-athletes.
 
 If there is a glimmer of hope, the road to building better sporting infrastructure is steep and fraught with uncertainty. But all that Bengal’s para-athletes want can be summed up in a single phrase: a level playing field.
 
 
