NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear a petition filed by a batch of 20 current and former students of Indian Institutes of Technology, seeking scrapping of Section 377 of India Penal Code which criminalises gay sex and carries punishment of up to ten years of imprisonment. 

  A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud issued notice to the Centre and tagged their plea with a bunch of other petitions which were filed by social activists and NGOs challenging the apex court's verdict reviving Section 377 after it was read down by the Delhi High Court which had decriminalised gay sex among consenting adults. 
 
  The SC had in 2013 revived the penal provision of Section 377 which was declared unconstitutional by the HC in 2009. The court had even refused to review its order and dismissed the plea of gay rights activists. It, however, agreed to hear their curative petition which is the last judicial resort for a litigant to get his grievances heard by the court. Although most of the curative petitions get dismissed in in-chamber proceedings, the SC agreed to give an open court hearing on the issue and the case was referred to a Constitution bench. 
 
 After the SC agreed to re-examine its verdict, many gay right activists and those belonging to the   community approached the court for scrapping of Section 377. The fresh petition, filed on behalf of the LGBT alumni association of IITs, alleged that criminalisation of sexual orientation had resulted in a sense of shame, loss of self-esteem and stigma.
 
  The petitioners include scientists, teachers, entrepreneurs and researches and are of different age groups. The youngest is a 19-year student from IIT, Delhi, and the oldest is a 1982 IIT passout. One of the petitioners was a batch mate of former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan. Two women and a transwoman are also among the petitioners. "Despite being amongst the brightest minds in the country... with the best possible opportunities available in terms of career, they are nevertheless criminalised by the archaic colonial provision in Section 377 and are deprived of the rights and freedom guaranteed to them by the constitution," the petition said. 
 
 
