 is here and colourful kites are dotting the clear blues skies of   once again, with kite parties bringing together families and friends on rooftops and beaches, to bond over some good ol’ fashioned 
  and 
 , munching on some 
 . But it isn’t just the boys flying kites, with girls happy to hold the 
 and watch the 
 anymore. Reality is far from it. Our Telugu girls are 
 from the front like pros, ‘cos why should boys fly all the kites! 

  Padmapriya Penmatsa, 23, says, “I absolutely love flying kites! My brother and I used to fly kites as kids too. We picked up the skill at  , where we lived for a few years. We would fly kites every day and get into 
 fights with other kids. In fact, growing up in a small town, I learnt to buy strong 
 and then apply glass powder on it carefully so that it cuts other kids’ kites.” Surprisingly, Padmapriya is one of those rare few who stills enjoys making her own kites! “Yes, I like making my own kites with coloured paper or newspaper, whatever is lying around the house. I use rice and gum to fasten them,” she says, adding that the joy of seeing your handmade kite cut someone’s 
 is something else. 
 
  For 22 year old Sravani Gudimetla too, Sankranti and kites are all about the 
 spirit. “I have always flown kites right from childhood,” she says with pride in her voice. “I would compete with other guys in the 
 , because whoever won would get a colourful cola tube. Since then, it has become sort of a ritual even if I don’t always compete now.” In fact, Sravani states that she would even save up money to buy the strongest 
 and 
 . “Mummy 
 1 or 2 rupees 
 save 
  kites and 
 . (I would save up every penny my mother would give to buy good kites and thread) Apart from the amazing food they make at home, it is the kite flying that makes Sankranti amazing for me. I always buy whatever kites look the best, but not the long tailed ones, because they’re risky and have higher chances of getting cut off. I always buy small but strong kites to suit my personality,” she says cheekily. “In fact, the smaller the better. When I was a kid, I got hurt while flying a kite. I tripped on the 
 and fell; the scar is still on my chin. It’s visible, but it’s a sign of victory for me, so that’s okay.” 
 
  Once you win a 
 fight; it’s like an addiction, say the girls. “Last year I went to fly kites at the beach with my cousins,” says 22 year old Sweta Jami. “I got a good kite with a huge photo of Sallu bhai on it and flew ‘the tiger’ till it literally tore to pieces,” she laughs. “Fighting with cousins to hold the string and winning the kite fight later on made me feel like a pro. This year too, we’re flying kites on our terrace. And yes, I’m gonna have my own kite to fly.” 
 
  While for some, it’s all about the pench, for others kite flying is the perfect way to bond with family and friends, and have some fun too. Akhila Perry, a 21-year-old says, “Basically, Makar Sankranti is a harvest festival and there’s a scientific reason for every ritual connected to the festival. Kite flying is not just about rejoicing with family, it’s also about celebrating the end of winter and enjoying some fresh air and sunshine.” 
 
  Quality time with extended family over kites is what Sankranti is all about for 21 year old Anvita Dinavahi. “I used to make my own kite as a kid and have flown them since I was in 3
  grade. I was in Hyderabad back then and it was a really big deal for us, as we used to live in a huge joint family. We would go 
 and 
 shopping together. Competing with neighbourhood kite flyers and cutting off their kites is the best part of the festival. The next year, I was in   and I witnessed the best 
 festival I have ever seen,” she says with awe. “I like those traditional kites with long tails. I think the movement of the kite is better with a long tail. Oh, and my kites always have to be red. They just have to!” 
 
