INDORE: Drug department officials on Wednesday carried out search at 14   on suspicion of illegal selling of   tablets.

 The team reached Chandan Nagar and carried out search at two medical stores. The team also carried out   at eight medical stores in Jawahar Marg, three in   and one in Azad Nagar.
 
 “During the inspection, the team also examined the sales records but nothing objectionable was found,” drug inspector Dharmesh Bigonia said.
 
 After the police caught owners of three shops- Pooja Medical, Nisha Medical and Kazim Medical from Chandan Nagar area with a large quantity of Alprazolam tablets, the drug department started the process of cancelling their licence.
 
 “We were waiting copy of the police report, which was received on Wednesday further to carry out the action of cancelling the licence. Notices to the accused have been served and further actions will be taken soon” Bigonia said.
 
 He added that due to staff crunch, they are facing inability to carryout routine inspection but on receiving any such complaint, the department takes action.
 
 Indore: Following the city police’s action of nabbing paddlers with large quantity of Alprazolam tablets, officials from the drug department on Wednesday carried out search at as many as 14 medical stores on having suspicion of them selling the said drug without the doctor’s prescriptions.
 
 The team visited Chandan Nagar, from where three chemists were caught while illegally selling Alprazolam tablets on March 30, and carried out search at two medical stores. Similarly, the team also carried out inspection at as many as 8 medical stores of Jawahar Marg, three in Madina Nagar and one medical store in Azad Nagar but nothing wrong was found.
 
 “During the inspection, the team also examined the sales records but nothing objectionable was found” the drug inspector, Dharmesh Bigonia said.
 
 After the police caught owners of three chemists including Pooja Medical, Nisha Medical and Kazim Medical from Chandan Nagar area with a large quantity of Alprazolam tablets, the drug department started the process of cancelling their license.
 
 “We were waiting copy of the police report, which received on Wednesday further to carry out the action of cancelling the license. Notices to the accused chemists have been served and further actions will soon be taken” Bigonia said.
 
 He added that due to staff crunch, they are facing inability to carryout routine inspection but on receiving any such complaint, the department also takes action.
 
 Notably, the district administration has enforced selling of Alprazolam and other such drugs without the doctor’s prescription under section 144 of CrPC.
 
 
