Hubballi: The dream of the people of Hubballi, to meditate in a scientifically-built pyramid was again postponed for an indefinite time, as it was cancelled in the last minute, here on Tuesday. MP Prahlad Joshi was irked by the officials’ negligence, in not informing about the cancellation of the event. Joshi meditated and spent half-an-hour at the pyramid, as he had reserved an hour’s time for the inauguration.

 Every one, including former MP I G Sanadi, Joshi, many elected representatives, students, HDUDA and HDMC staff, morning walkers at Nrupatunga Hills, where the pyramid is built, and the general public, returned in disappointment. The people who arrived for the inauguration, had breakfast, which was prepared for the occasion. They expressed their ire against the district administration, for wasting the taxpayers money. Those who set up the shamiyana for the event, were worried whether they will get rent for the pandal, chair, sound system and other material provided for the occasion.
 
 Manoj Hangal, president, Gangubai Hanagal Music Foundation, who had brought hundreds of Bharatnatyam students with him for the event, said it’s a clear instance which shows how elected representatives and officials respect the people’s time and energy. “The officials have no sensitivity towards our students, who were ready, after putting on makeup in the morning. They should ensure that this doesn’t repeat in the future,” he urged.
 
 Sanadi returned without alighting from his car. When the organizers invited him for breakfast, he expressed his disappointment by saying, “I had cancelled all my programmes and works for this event, but my whole schedule is disturbed now.”
 
 Siddu Mugalishettar, general secretary, Nrupatunga Betta Vayu Viharigala Sangh, shared that he had visited 1,000 houses individually, to invite residents for the much-awaited inaugural ceremony of the pyramid. “The residents of areas surrounding the pyramid, considered it to be a programme of their own family. Most employees applied for leave, to be a part of this inaugural ceremony. When opposition leader in assembly, Jagadish Shettar visited here on Saturday, to review preparations, we were confident that the inauguration will take place. If officials act like this, no one will believe them in the future,” he added.
 
 Joshi shared that he was stunned to see people returning from the main entrance. “As I was late by 10 minutes, I thought the inauguration was over. I felt I may be wrong in understanding my schedule today,” he added. He took HDUDA commissioner Ningappa Kummannanavar to task, for not informing about the cancellation. He came down heavily on him, by saying, “You have taken people and public representatives for granted. I will move a privilege motion against you.”
 
 Kummannanavar admitted that it was an error on his part, for not informing the MP about the last-minute cancellation.
 
 Joshi later went inside the pyramid and reduced his anger by meditating for about 10 minutes. He later told reporters, “The ED notice to urban development minister Roshan Baig is one of the reasons for postponing the inauguration. However, district minister Vinay Kulkarni could have shown some generosity, by instructing officials to go on with the show, as per schedule. This is an instance which shows how the government is functioning,” he added.
 
 ‘Govt is dead’
 
 “I was ready to leave for the inauguration by 10.30 am, but HDUDA chairman Anwar Mudhol and his officials came to my home and stated that the inauguration is cancelled, due to unavailability of ministers. I feel the ED notice to minister R Roshan Baig has hampered the inauguration. I had told Mudhol to inaugurate the pyramid after the garden is developed and other finishing works are over, but he intended to inaugurate it in a hurry, and now the event has been cancelled. It shows that the government is dead in the state”.
 
 -Jagadish Shettar, Opposition leader in assembly
 
 Quote hanger
 
 “We had finalized the date of inauguration after consulting district minister Vinay Kulkarni, and opposition leader Jagadish Shettar. However, Minister Kulkarni had to attend some important works in Bengaluru, and some other elected representatives like MLA Prasad Abbayya were unable to attend. We postponed it with the intention that one and all are present for the inauguration. However, we could not inform Jagadish Shettar about the cancellation, andcouldn’t inform MP Joshi, as his mobile phone was not reachable. We apologize for the inconvenience caused to one and all”.
 
 -Anwar Mudhol, Chairman, HDUDA.
 
 
