PUNE: The   on Monday booked seven men and a woman from New Delhi for duping a 32-year-old lawyer of Rs 5.21 lakh on the pretext of offering him a bank cashier’s job between May 18 and September 28, 2017. 

 The lawyer (name withheld) had got his name registered for the post of a legal adviser on a portal. “I first got a telephone call from a person, who introduced himself as an official from a placement agency in Delhi. He said there were vacancies for the post of cashiers at various banks and not legal advisers. He asked me to accept the job and offered me handsome salary and perks.”
 
 The lawyer said he was initially not keen on accepting the offer. “I later decided to accept the job in a bank so that I can work for a few hours and concentrate on family business and personal work,” he said.
  
  
 The lawyer deposited varying amounts in the bank accounts provided by the person. “But I did not get a job. I have registered an FIR of cheating and other charges of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Information Technology Act,” he added.
 
 Senior inspector (Mundhwa police) Anil   said the lawyer, in his complaint, said the suspects assured him a job on a commission basis and asked him to deposit a registration fee of Rs 1,600 in a particular bank account. 
 
 The officer said, “The suspects again asked him to deposit Rs 50,000 in their bank account as commission charges. The lure was a hefty salary and insurance and mediclaim benefits. Among other charges, they asked him to deposit Rs 1.10 lakh and again Rs 1.60 lakh for receiving an appointment letter and paying state/central goods service tax, respectively, in three bank accounts.”
 
 The lawyer later decided to not accept the job offer and contacted the suspects over phone, seeking return of the money he had paid. This time, he was lured to deposit Rs 80,000, submit a photo copy of Aadhaar card and six cancelled cheques for refund. “The lawyer followed the instructions, but did not get the money back,” Paturdkar said.
 
 The lawyer filed a complaint with the Pune police cyber crime cell on November 22, 2017. “After conducting a preliminary inquiry, the cell has referred his complaint to us for registering an FIR,” the officer said. 
 
 Cybercrime complaints and economic offences have registered an almost three- and four-fold increase in 2017, respectively, as compared to 2016. The police have been expressing concern over the rise in cyber crimes and the trend of even educated people falling victim to such crimes. In most cases, the cyber fraudsters operate from other states and even abroad. 
 
 
