Even as the government openly guns for its ambitious #KheloIndia programme to promote sports, the city’s national and international players, seeking to use vital local infrastructure for practice sessions, are being left far behind the starting mark.

 
 
 For now, the   — built at a great cost to cater to the needs of sportspersons from around the country – is being rented out almost all the year round for marriages, concerts, exhibitions and other events, leaving athletes here with no place to hone their skills.
 
 However, given the staggering maintenance costs of the state-of-the-art venue, stadium officials insisted that they have no other option but to allow these events to make ends meet for revenue, leaving the facility’s purpose racing towards major defeat.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 The impasse erupted once again on Tuesday, when shooters arrived to train for their upcoming competitions at the only   range in the state at Balewadi. Disappointed to see yet another mandap being constructed on the ground next door, they tried to schedule another date for practice —but were told that a wedding has also been scheduled for next week, rendering the spot unusable.
 
 Sharayu Prakash Dalvi, a member of the national shotgun team, told Mirror,“I am currently preparing for a slew of upcoming international games, and I need to hone my skills on aregular basis. This is barely possible at the Balewadi shotgun range. The ground towards which we are supposed to aim is where marriages and functions take place all the time. When the numerous auspicious wedding seasons of the year arrive, the range is simply shut down for days on end. My game is definitely suffering. Even when my coach and I tried to speak to the administration to resolve this problem, we were told it won’t be possible for several more days. All through the year, except in the monsoon, there is always some event being hosted in the stadium — where then are we supposed to go?”
 
 Fed up of this status quo, Dalvi and others say they are being forced to travel to other cities and states to practice — and, they are unanimous in the opinion that this situation is affecting their game.
 
 Shotgun coach  , a national-level player himself, narrated, “When we arrived for practice on Tuesday, we saw the mandap being set up for a wedding. When my students and I approached the administration to ask when we can practice next, we were told that another wedding has been lined up in coming days. This has left our national-level players with no place to go.”
 
 He added, “In November every year, we have several national-level competitions — and it also happens to be peak wedding season. So, we are left with no option but to go all the way to Delhi for practice. In fact, this happens all year long, because there are always workers on the ground setting up one event or the other, making it impossible for us to aim in that direction for practice shooting. Just last month, my students and I went to Jaipur to practice. This is the only shotgun range we can use in the state — the other one is a military facility, and not open to us civilians.”
 
 But faced with these facts, stadium officials only argued that to maintain the establishment, they have no option but to put it out on lease. An official shared on condition of anonymity, “Government permission is necessary to rent out indoor halls, but we can give out the ground on lease on our own. The wedding on Tuesday was outdoors, so there was no reason for the shooters to cite issues — plus, the ground’s levelling automatically got done because of it. Balewadi Stadium’s monthly maintenance cost is Rs 65 lakh. We are only able to recover part of this amount through such events, and this helps maintain the whole facility.”
 
 The official also aimed a rejoinder at the athletes, claiming, “The fact of the matter is that the shooters don’t practice regularly enough.”
 
 
