LUDHIANA: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) party on Wednesday released its first list of candidates for Municipal Corporation (MC) elections. The list released by   state president Bhagwant   and vice-president Aman Arora contains the names of 31 candidates for the elections. AAP is contesting the polls with its alliance partner Lok Insaf Party (LIP). 

 As per the AAP statement, in Ludhiana West assembly constituency, Mamta Kaur Vadhara will contest from Ward No.65, Prof Komal Gurnoor Singh from Ward No.66, Neeru Chandilya from Ward No.68, JS Ghuman from Ward No.70, Darshan Kaur Gill from Ward No.71, Pawandeep Singh Sehgal from Ward No.72, Paramvir Singh Atwal from Ward No.74. In the same constituency, Baljeet Kaur is AAP candidate from Ward No.77, Devi Chand Chautala from Ward No.78, Sonu Katyal from Ward No.80, Raj   from Ward No.81, and Suneel Puri Shammi as joint candidate of AAP and LIP from Ward No.82.
 
 In Ludhiana East constituency, Bahiraj Singh has been declared AAP candidate from Ward No.2, Gulab Singh Gautam from Ward No.4, Balwinder   from Ward No.5, Dharminder Singh Fauji from Ward No.6, Devinder Kaur Chabra from Ward No.9, Rakesh   from Ward No.10, Balwinder Kaur Grewal from Ward No.11, Charanjeet Kaur from Ward No.13, Nirmal Singh (Vicky Verma) will be AAP candidate from Ward No.14, Uma Devi from Ward No.15, Lakhwinder Singh Lakha from Ward No.16, Neetu Vohra from Ward No.21, and Manju from Ward No.23.
 
 In the Sahnewal assembly constituency, Tejinder Pal Singh has been given ticket from Ward No.24, and Paramjeet Kaur from Ward No.25, while from Ward No.85 of Ludhiana North assembly constituency,   has been given a mandate, and Navneet will be AAP candidate from Ward No.91. Sushil Kumar will be the party’s candidate from Ward No.54 in Ludhiana Central constituency, whereas Sushil Kumar will be AAP and LIP’s candidate from Ward No.60.
 
 Bhagwant Mann and Aman Arora said AAP and LIP had constituted a joint selection committee under the leadership of deputy leader of opposition and Jagraon MLA Sarabjeet Kaur Manuke to choose candidates for MC elections in Ludhiana. They added that the committee comprised Daljeet Singh Bhola Grewal, Ahbab Grewal, Darshan Singh Shankar from AAP, and Suresh Goyal as members.
 
 The leaders said the candidates were selected after discussions with leaders, workers, and volunteers, and added that the rest of the candidates would be announced soon. Mann and Arora said the AAP-LIP alliance would register a big win in the MC elections.
 
 
