CHANDIGARH: Undeterred by the voluminous chargesheet filed in the CBI court in the Manesar land case, Haryana’s former chief minister  , on Sunday, said he would continue to take on the BJP in the state.

 Addressing a well-attended public meeting in Palwal district ahead of the ‘Jan Kranti Yatra,’ Hooda said the government has not fulfilled its election promises. “They stand exposed. They have nothing to show for the 154 promises they made three and a half years ago. As far as Cow bhakti is concerned, anybody can visit the gaushala or come out on the roads to see the condition of cattle,’’ said Hooda.
 
 Upbeat over the huge turnout in Hodal, Hooda reiterated his commitment to end Inspector Raj and cut the rate of fuel (petrol and diesel) by rationalising tax. Hooda also assured quality education and health care facilities in the state as well as an outsourcing system to provide employment. 
 
 Alleging that the BJP government forced the state into bankruptcy, Hooda elaborated on the misuse of funds worth crores as well as the state machinery for communal issues.
 
 “The Haryana government spent over Rs 200 crore to spread communal violence and as of now, 72 people have fallen prey to police bullets over the past three and a half years,’’ said Hooda.
 
 Those who addressed the rally included Deepender Hooda, Palwal MLA Karan Singh Dalal and former speaker Kuldeep Sharma. 
 
 AICC chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala, on Sunday, urged residents of Pundri to join hands with the Congress to restore development in the state and country. Chairing the dalit sammelen in Pundri, Surjwala asked why PM Modi and CM   government in the state were not waiving off farmers’ loans worth Rs 1.82 lakh crore, especially at a time when the government has given waivers worth over Rs 2.5 lakh crore to corporate houses and favourite industrialists. Addressing the sammelan coordinated by Satbir Bhana, Surjewala flayed the Khattar government over law and order and crime against women.
 
 Chairing the special workers’ meeting in Gharaunda, CLP leader and former excise and taxation minister Kiran Choudhary aksed CM Khattar and his cabinet to learn from the Gita before circulating copies to others.
 
 “All this relates to karma and principals of truth. It is unfortunate that such leaders try to encash from from religious scriptures. We suggest they first understand the theory of karma, or else elections are not too far off,’’ said Choudhary.
 
 She said farmers continue to reel under agrarian distress, employees are up in arms, traders are restive and women and girls are insecure over frequent incidents of rape and murder. She said the common man is suffering from the poor law-and-order situation and rampant corruption in government offices.
 
 
