JAIPUR:   to India Sohail Mahmood has said that   has proposed India to include two elements in the early repatriation agreement by including prisoners above 60 years and children below 18 years. The early repatriation age proposed for prisoners is 70 years and above by India. Mahmood was in   to offer prayers at the Shrine of   on Tuesday. 

 Talking to TOI, he said, "On March 7, Pakistan has responded positively on the proposal made by Indian union external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj for the release of mentally unsound, women and elderly prisoners. In turn, Pakistan has proposed the release of prisoners above 60 years and children below 18 years to the government of India. We are hoping that India will respond positively." The proposal will clear the way for the release of Indian prisoners lodged in the neighboring country, he said.
 
 He also cleared the air of uncertainty over the visit of doctors from India and vice-versa to examine the mentally unsound prisoners and said that Pakistan is in touch with its Indian counterparts positively. The statement has put an end to news reports which claimed that Pakistan is reluctant to allow a contingent of Indian doctors. Both the moves are intended to deescalate tension between the two nations intensified over the alleged harassment of diplomats.
 
 Mahmood presented Chadar (covering) at the   on behalf of Pakistan government and its nationals. He expressed disappointment over Pakistan delegation not granted visa by Indian government to attend Urs. "The visit of Zaireens (devotees) is governed by the protocol between the two countries signed in 1974. The refusal came as an disappointed for the people as they prepare for the whole year to come and pay obeisance," said Mahmood.
 
 On being asked is the refusal would affect visa to Indian pilgrims, Mahmood replied that Pakistan will continue to honour the protocol sugned with India in 1974. "The political relations between India and Pakistan and pilgrimage in each other countries are two separate things," said Mahmood, who advocated that people to people contact should continue for better relations.
 
 "Pakistan is open to exchanges-academics, media persons, businessmen and those from art and culture," Mahmood. He refused to take questions on harassment of Indian diplomats in Pakistan and vice-versa. Mahmood spent an hour inside the shrine praying and listening to Quwallis. Syed Bilal Chishty, a khadim, performed prayers for the ambassador inside the shrine. 
 
 
