INDORE: The bodies of six pilgrims from Indore and Ujjain, who died in road accident in Tuticorin district of   late on Tuesday, were airlifted to Indore from Chennai on Thursday evening. Four injured will be brought to Indore on Friday morning.

 Four members of the family apart from two others of Sindhi community were killed after the vehicle they were traveling in toppled off a bridge in Toticorin district when they were on their way from Rameshwar to Kanyakumari.
 
 Officials said, four injured who were in a stable condition including Chanda, Sonam Pohwani, Moksh and Sunita will be sent to Indore in a flight on Friday. Two others including Sarla Pohwani and Tulsi Detani, who had sustained critical injuries, were still undergoing treatment at Tuticorin hospital.“My mother and aunt have sustained multiple fractures and severe head injuries in the accident. Doctors said that their condition is better as compared to yesterday but they are still critical,” said Pankaj, Tulsi’s son while speaking to TOI over phone from Tuticorin.
 
 A group of 25 people had left from Ujjain to bring the bodies of the deceased and help the injured persons. Some of them, including Pankaj stayed back with the injured.
 
 “My aunt Sarla will undergo a surgery on Saturday whereas my mother will be operated on only when her condition stabilizes,” Pankaj added.
 
 Meanwhile, members of the Sindhi community from Indore and Ujjain reached Indore airport in large numbers to pay condolences to the family of the deceased.
 
 “I have come to pay condolences to the family and attend the funeral. This is a very sad incident for us,” said  , a community member who came all the way from Dharmpuri to attend the funeral and extend help to the family members.The bodies, kept in wooden coffins, were received by the kin at Indore airport and four were then transported to Ujjain in ambulances. Officials in Tirunelveli claimed that postmortem was conducted and the bodies were sent to Madurai by road from where they were airlifted.
 
 
