CHENNAI: Students from less-privileged families are experiencing how learning can be fun activities in camps this summer, with NGOs and volunteer groups conducting summer camps free of cost and engaging these students in academic and extracurricular activities and teaching them soft skills.

 Nearly 140 Class XII girls from various government schools are spending their summer vacations learning English and basic computer science at classes conducted by Association for Non-traditional Employment of Women (ANEW).
 
 When   joined the camp, she wished to rise higher and get a computer-based job that would help her with a comfortable life. The daughter of an auto driver, and a mother who does household chores to make ends meet, she joined the camp bright-eyed, to learn some computer skills and basics of English. 
 
 “Here, I get to learn yoga and krav maga (a style of self-defence) as well,” she beamed.
 
 The sessions are split for a week’s duration, with a part of the days spent on language and computer training, while the rest are used for focusing on career skills, yoga, and art of self-defence.
 
 These classes are besides the vocational training offered by the group for women who are first-generation learners, college graduates, or dropouts from schools due to circumstances.
 
 “For the school pass-outs, we offer bridge course to educate them on the courses available at the college-level and the kind of career they could have based on the choices they make. Many of these girls have no guidance on the kind of courses available, and end up choosing the wrong one, that they fail to pursue as careers,” said S Sumalini, one of the members of ANEW.
 
 Direction for Volunteers, a volunteer group in   has also started classes for school students from Class VI to XII from Mondays through Fridays. The group is run by volunteers who are professionals from varied backgrounds, who take two hours out from their weekdays to teach the enrolled students. 
 
 “Studies alone would be boring as they have similar lessons in schools. So we engage them in group and team-building activities, talks on responsible living, and life skills,” said Ashok AJ, an IT professional and one of the members of the group.
 
 While the lower grades learn about various subjects, life skills, and engage in activities, the senior grades are offered career guidance.
 
 “As the members are from different walks of life, we talk to the students from Class X to XII about jobs and work life. They are made aware of what to expect at the workplace,” he said, talking about career guidance sessions. 
 
 
