JAIPUR: The scientific disposal of garbage in the state capital remains a challenge as the Jaipur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) ambitious waste-to-energy project failed to take off. It was proposed that waste-to-energy plant with capacity of nearly 700 million litres per day will be developed on public private and partnership ( ) model in the city. However, the garbage menace continues as project remains on papers.

 An official source said the JMC had earmarked land to set up waste-to-energy plant in   after the tender were awarded. However, the company refused to set up the plant on the proposed land as the land was uneven. 
 
 The project also hit the roadblock in the absence of power purchase agreement (PPA), added sources. “The JMC was planning to generate nearly 7 MW in a day from 650 tonnes of waste. At present,   generated in JMC areas is close to 1,250 tonne. Out of which, 350 tonne is used to produce refuse derived fuel that is sold to cement factories and 250 tonne is used to produce compost manure. The JMC had planned to generate electricity from remaining 650 tonne garbage. “It was proposed that the firm would pay Rs 66 for per metric tonne to JMC. However, due to delay in agreement the firm had expressed that the plant will be installed after the   is signed,” added the source.
 
 As per the agreement, the JMC had appointed the firm for 25 years. The initial rate fixed to sell electricity to electricity department was at the cost of Rs 7.4. Official sources said, the city will have to wait for long for the project.
 
 Explaining the procedure of generating electricity, the official said, “As per the reports, one MW can be generated using 100 tonne waste. Segregation is done in several steps at the plant. Non-combustible matter is segregated and moisture content reduced by drying it. Recyclable materials like plastic and hard materials like bricks or stone are removed in the next step. Kitchen waste sent for composting combustible matter that remains in fuel is taken to boiler to generate steam. Steam is sent to the turbine to generate power. The boiler has a pollution abatement system which produces clean energy. From 1,000 tonnes of garbage, about 400 tonnes of green fuel is finally obtained,” he added.
 
 
