MANGALURU: Prime Minister   on Saturday gave a new ‘name’ to  , ‘PPP’, saying “it will be reduced to Punjab, Puducherry and (Gandhi) Parivar” after the   election results.   and Puducherry are among the four states (apart from Mizoram and Karnataka) that are presently ruled by Congress. 

 
 “After May 15 (the day of results), Indian National Congress will be reduced to 'PPP Congress’ — P for Punjab, P for Puducherry and P for Parivar (family),” Modi said at an election rally in Gadag. He said Congress has lost its existence in most states and is “yet to wake up” to retain Karnataka. 
 
 “Karnataka Congress ministers have built a tank of corruption and the same is connected to New Delhi by a pipeline. Congress sends money through this pipeline to its high command. If it loses Karnataka, it will just remain as ‘PPP Congress’,” Modi added. The PM alleged that Congress formed a network of ‘vasool (extortion) mafia’ in the state. 
 
 “Congress even issued tickets to highest bidders through secret tender system. If it regains power in Karnataka, it will definitely sell all ministerial berths to highest bidders through tender. Though Sant Shishunal Shariff (poet-saint and philosopher) said money is bad, Congress thinks that money is everything and gave ‘Sidha Rupaiya Sarkar’ (cash upfront) in Karnataka,” Modi said. 
 
 Breaking his silence on the inter-state Mahadayi river row, the PM said the dispute was the Congress “gift to nation” and his government would try to resolve the issue harmoniously if people of Karnataka supported him. “Addressing an election campaign in Madgaon, Sonia had provoked people of Goa in this regard... Now Congress has vanished in Goa and so they are provoking people in Karnataka,” he added. 
 
 Meanwhile, hitting back at Modi over his “PPP” jibe, Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah on Saturday called BJP a “prison, price rise and pakoda” party. “Sir, we have always championed the 3 Ps of democracy — ‘Of the People, By the People, For the People’,” Siddaramaiah tweeted shortly after Modi’s attack.
 
