MADURAI: Many workplaces with female worker strength of more than 10 still do not have   to prevent sexual harassment says a study conducted by the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA), in co-ordination with, Gender Justice WE care, formed by the women working in insurance firms in Madurai.

 Speaking to reporters in Madurai on Sunday, All India vice president of AIDWA U  , said that they had gathered details of the formation of internal complaints committee ( ) in 100 offices, including public sector and government aided, and private offices. Some administrations were accessible, while the information was gathered by meeting the employees union and movements in the offices that refused to meet the survey team.
 
 It was found that the ICC was not formed in 51 % of the establishments taken up for study and that there was no compliance of the committee guidelines, in 55 % of the private companies. Among the offices which came forward to provide the information on the number of female employees working there were the Madurai Corporation, (60), TANGEDCO Madurai,(53), Headquarters hospital,  ,(250), National Child Labour Program, Sivakasi,(67), Municipality Girls Higher secondary school, Ramanathapuram,(27) and Government hospital, Vadipatti (25).
 
 She said that many of the prominent private hospitals, jewelry shops, schools, colleges, textile showrooms, banks, post offices, public libraries and the district court did not have these committees. Thirty firms had said that they did not know that it was legally mandatory to have the committee.
 
 Vasuki said that it was disheartening that only 27 % of the firms had created awareness among its workers on the importance of having an ICC to deal with sexual harassment in work places. Sixty two firms refused to provide an answer to the question as to whether they had created awareness on the committee. Only 15 companies had said that they have a sign board informing the employees of this committee in their premises.
 
  “It is shocking that 73% of the government offices and 84 % of the public sector offices have said they do not meet regularly,” she said.
 
 She added that they would take the information that had gathered to the attention of the government and that it would be ensured that the rules of the Sexual Harassment of Women in Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act,2013 is followed in all work places.
 
 
