KOLKATA: Sisters   and Kalpana, whose wedding preparations went up in smoke when the shanties in their Armenian Ghat neighbourhood were gutted three days ago, found help from well-wishers who arranged for the ceremony on Sunday. It was an unusual setting — just off the railway tracks — and the ceremony was scheduled between 1.20pm and 4pm.

 Among those affected by the fire, the sisters’ mother  , a rag picker, was the worst hit. She lost everything she bought for the wedding. “I didn’t know the world was so kind. We live in constant struggle here. I did not know how to manage the wedding after such a disaster. But the next morning, many people — most of whom I’ve never seen — came to offer help,” she said.
 “The wedding was scheduled for a time when no trains cross this track from Prinsep Ghat to Dum Dum,” said Riazul Sheikh, Moyna’s uncle.
 
 A makeshift stage, chairs for the guests and gifts for the brides and grooms turned the razed stretch into a hub of happiness for the afternoon. In a half-burnt room, the girls put on finishing touches to their makeup even as local kids peeped in to catch a glimpse. Decked in   and jewellery — gifted by local MLA   — the two girls looked resplendent. Political lines blurred during the celebrations as   leader   gifted cash to the girls. Several traders, too, helped out.
 
 The grooms, dressed in silk kurtas and pyjamas, arrived on the shoulders of their friends. Raju Sheikh and Ramjan Sheikh were also affected by the fire. Raju’s shanty was one of the many that were gutted. However, Ramjan’s house, on the other side of the tracks, escaped the fire.
 
 The maulavi reached the venue at 2.45pm. After the ceremony, the two pairs walked along the tracks towards their in-laws’ houses. “My younger daughter Kalpana will step into a room decorated with flowers, but Jyotsna will have a house with a smoky stench and tattered tarpaulin as a ceiling,” Moyna Bibi said.
 
 “We had planned to invite 400 people from our locality and the grooms’ side, but after the fire we could not invite even a single person. However, one of our well-wishers arranged for food packets for all the guests who came to wish my daughters. The menu included biryani and sweatmeats,” the girls’ mother gushed.
 
 
 
