Panjim Footballers’ second half resurgence helped them secure a 3-0 win over Santa Cruz Club, Cavelossim, on the opening day of the Goa   at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Saturday.
 
  Snedden Rodrigues broke the deadlock just four minutes after the restart while Alphonso Shako headed in the second in the 79th minute. Man-of-the-Match Egyptian Fady Riad rounded off the tally in the final minute. Panjim will play Guardian Angel SC in the quarterfinals at the artificial turf ground in Fatorda on Monday.
  
  Panjim and Cavelossim won a leg each against each other in the recently concluded Goa Pro League. But even though Cavelossim were the ones to get relegated, the side coached by Severino Fernandes put up a brave fight. They came close on several occasions but it was rival goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh who blocked their way.
  
  Cavelossim should have taken an early lead, if not for Clive Miranda, who came up with a goalline clearance to deny Darren Fernandes. At the other end, Panjim got into their rhythm but Velton D’Souza and Snedden missed from good positions.
  
  Much was expected from the teams in the second half and it was the Panjim side who took the lead after Snedden timed his run perfectly when Riad put him through and the striker got past goalkeeper Razak Devsor to score from an acute angle.
  
  Severino quickly introduced strikers Alvito Miranda and Semson Fernandes but their finishing let them down.
  
  Riad’s precise corner was than anticipated well by Sakho and the winger leaped high for a powerful header to make it 2-0. The duo combined yet again from a set piece, but this time Sakho’s header went wide. Riad’s hard work finally paid off in the 89th minute as the midfielder coolly chipped in for the third.
  
  
 
  
  Velsao Sports and Cultural Club defeated Sesa FA 10-9 via sudden death tiebreaker at the artificial turf ground in Fatorda. They will now face Sporting Clube de Goa in the last eight tie.
  
  Darren Estibeiro scored in the 26th minute for Velsao while Manjunath Rathod equalised 10 minutes later.
  
  
 
  
  First divisioners St Savio SC, Calangute, knocked out hosts Goa Police SC 2-1 at Duler   Stadium in Mapusa on Saturday. They will now take on Salgaocar FC in the quarterfinals.
  
  Goalkeeper Augustine D’Mello was sent off in the fourth minute for collecting the ball outside the 18-yard box but St Savio still managed to take the lead in the 24th minute through Ashley Lobo. Hemant Kholkar did equalise before the break.
  
  On resumption, St Savio were awarded a penalty after Balchandra Vernekar handled the ball and Pedro Gonsalves made no mistake from the spot.
