LUCKNOW:   led opposition disrupted UP governor Ram Naik’s   on Thursday, showing   and throwing balloons, paper missiles and potatoes towards the Chair while shouting slogans like “Rajyapal Wapas Jao (Governor go back)”. The members were protesting against Kasganj violence and Noida encounter.

 However, a determined governor, facing a barrage of paper missiles and relentless slogan-shouting, read out his 38-page speech, lasting nearly 90 minutes. Speaker Hriday Narain Dixit described the opposition’s behaviour as unruly and unconstitutional. Last year, on May 15, the opposition had staged a similar protest during the special session on GST and marshals had to use official files to bat away the paper balls and missiles to save the Governor and the Speaker.
 
 While reading out his speech, Naik warned the agitating legislators that they were honourable members and that their behaviour was uncivilised and being watched by the entire state. chief minister Yogi Adityanath said a handful of members had no right to hijack the functioning of the House.
 
 Opposition members protest during the address of Governor Ram Naik before the start of the budget session on Thursday
 
 Oppn will keep pointing out govt’s wrongdoings: Akhilesh
 
 However, soon after the joint session, SP chief   said: “The opposition will continue to discharge its constitutional responsibility and duty to point out the state government’s wrongdoings. Nothing is wrong. What is being done has been a tradition in the assembly.”
 
 As soon as the governor started speaking, the opposition members from SP, BSP and Congress started shouting ‘Governor Go Back’.
 
 Within a few seconds, SP MLAs carrying banners and placards trooped into the well of the House, trying to force their way towards the Chair.
 
 When they were stopped from moving ahead, they fished out banners from their pockets and showed placards saying, “Goli bandook ki ye sarkar, nahi chalegi nahi chalegi (Down with the triggerhappy government)” and “Kanoon vywastha dhwast hai, Yogi sarkar mast hai (In Yogi government, law and order has crumbled)”.
 
 In between their protests, SP members threw paper balls, missiles and potatoes wrapped in paper towards the chair but alert marshals and security guards foiled all attempts.
 
 One of the SP members had come to the House with a garland of potatoes to highlight the plight of potato cultivators.
 
 
