Anticipating a stir a day after a flash protest by a few people at   over the   issue, the city police on Sunday turned the spot into a fortress, with men in khaki barricading the stretch till afternoon. They made sure that Elliot’s Beach too was off limits.

 While politicians took their protest to Valluvar Kottam, the sprawling sands wore a deserted look on Easter Sunday morning, an unusual sight on any weekend. The shoreline remained quiet but there was an almost palpable air of tension, reflecting the political mood ahead of a series of protests and shutdowns anticipated in city and across Tamil Nadu through the week.
 
 The police cordon was set up since dawn and morning walkers were the first to return disappointed after being denied entry into the beach. Vehicle entry into the service lane along the Marina from   till Light House was blocked. The long weekend was bound to attract visitors but a number of them were turned away. “I came to the city from Thanjavur and had planned to spend time at the beach on Sunday. I had no idea of the blockade, so we had to settle for a view of the Marina from the Light House,” said Manimuthu, who had come down with his family of five.
 
 After the jallikattu protest at Marina last January, the police have been quick to barricade the beach at the hint of a possible demonstration. But unlike previously, there was a blanket of policemen on Sunday along the shore and on roads nearby.
 
 At least 1,000 men, including   personnel were deployed at Marina and 100 in  , to prevent crowds from gathering. Four makeshift watch towers and four all-terrain vehicles kept a strict vigil through the day. Many shops remained closed and business was slow for hawkers on the beaches.
 
 “I earn ?1,000 on Sundays. But today’s sales have got me just ?50,” said Parameshwari, who sells ice cream on the beach. Fish vendors said they lost the brisk business typical of Sunday. “Policemen said we didn’t have to close our shops. But there were very few customers. We closed so the fish would not go bad in the heat,” said Selvi, who runs the fish stall on Loop Road.
 
 The police cordon was in place till the afternoon, after which the crowds started to swell and a few people scaled the barricades. Policemen looked on haplessly as they frisked other visitors and gave them entry. After 5pm, the beaches were packed and there was the usual Sunday revelry.
 
 In the other part of city, protests by political parties in Valluvar Kottam held up traffic for nearly an hour, starting from 1pm. To register their disapproval of policemen detaining some party workers, several local leaders squatted on the road and brought vehicles to a halt. Motorists from   and Nungambakkam and heading toward Gemini Flyover and   were stuck at Valluvar Kottam junction.
 
