SHIMLA: The   (CBI) on Wednesday submitted the final status report in   rape and murder case in the   high court. The CBI also said it would file the chargesheet in the case within 90 days. 

 Meanwhile, the court directed the CBI director to file a fresh affidavit on May 8.
 
 When CBI counsel filed the status report in a sealed envelope, the court asked whether it is the last status report on which the counsel replied in the affirmative. The court said that CBI director should personally remain present during the hearing.
 
 The counsel also submitted that investigation was carried forward on the basis of the FIR registered. The court made it clear that the CBI director will have to approve all the status report submitted in the case on which the counsel said all reports submitted till date were approved by the director.
 
 The court also expressed its displeasure on the content of status reports being leaked in the media. The CBI informed the court that it would submit the chargesheet in July.
 
 During the last hearing on March 29, the division bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice   had directed the CBI to file a fresh status report on April 25 while the date for appearance of CBI director was fixed for May 9.
 
 On March 28 hearing, the court had observed that CBI perhaps is clueless with regard to the whereabouts of the persons engaged and involved in the heinous crime.
 
 The court had observed, "Are we to understand that officers of CBI are not competent enough to unearth the crime, of such a nature, within past eight months? After all, as we understand, it is not a case of destruction of evidence. It is also not that investigation is to be conducted in a foreign land/off shore. Now, if investigation is to be carried out within the State, then why is it that such a process cannot be hastened up by deputing more persons having greater experience and expertise. Let the CBI director file a personal affidavit indicating a fresh status."
 
 It was only after this observation that the CBI intensified its probe and arrested the accused on April 13.
 
 
