NEW DELHI: With the east corporation trying to reduce the pollution footprint of the city’s only functional  , the Ghazipur   site and its surrounding areas are likely to get respite from one of the most polluting forms of waste. 

 The Ghazipur slaughterhouse, which processes over 5,000 livestocks in a four-hour batch, has been a constant source of pollution and unbearable stench for its surrounding areas. Flouting both municipal solid waste rules 2016 and slaughterhouse rules 2001, it dumps around 60-70 tonnes of such waste — blood, entrails and undigested food — in the Ghazipur open landfill site every day.
 
 After repeated raps by   (DPCC), commissioner Ranbir Singh has announced modernisation plans to tackle the waste generated during the slaughtering by setting up facilities like a blood processing unit and a biomethanation plant, and redeveloping the adjacent livestock market. 
 
 The blood released during the slaughtering process will now be collected and scientifically processed instead of releasing it into the drain, said Dr Hari Lal, the corporation’s former director of veterinary services and currently its consultant. “As final products, it will be converted into protein supplements and used in animal feeds in poultry and fish industries.” 
 
 The blood processing plant, which is almost ready, will have a capacity of 20,000 litres of blood per batch. The plant, set up by slaughterhouse operator Messrs Allana, is undergoing trial runs. 
 
 Two large underground water tanks are also being constructed to store the effluent water. “Around 2,000KLD effluent from the complex is treated. While the treated water can be used in irrigation and washing, the rest will be stored in the tanks,” Dr Lal said. 
 
 The corporation has also finalised plans to build a biomethanation plant to process the undigested food that comes out of the stomach of buffaloes, sheep and goats. Spread over 0.9 acres, the plant will cost over Rs 10.15 crore. Tenders have already been awarded .
 
 “We will use this to produce biomethane gas that will be filtered and converted into green energy,” Dr Lal said. “Its maximum capacity will be 70 metric tonnes but we have estimated that even at the current rate, we will get an assured supply of 35 metric tonnes.” Around 50-60 tonnes of undigested food is daily dumped in the landfill site.
 
 
