JALANDHAR:   leader  , who has denounced “all acts of terrorism in every part of the world, regardless of who the perpetrators or victims are”, said Canada should declare anti-Sikh violence at Delhi and other parts of India in November 1984 as “genocide”.

 “There is clear evidence that attacks on Sikhs by Hindus which followed the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1984 were not spontaneous, but organised by government,” the  , Canada’s national news agency, quoted him saying. For the last few days,   has been facing questions over his alleged ties with Sikh separatists. During his appearance on a few TV shows, he unequivocally condemned terrorism and flagged the issue of human rights violations against Sikhs and the November 1984 massacre. 
 
 “Singh believes labelling the event a genocide will help bring peace between Hindus and Sikhs,” the Canadian Press report said. It has been widely reported by the Canadian media.
 
 Jagmeet also introduced a motion in Ontario assembly in calling anti-Sikh violence ‘genocide’. The motion could not get through. In April 2017, liberal MP   moved a similar motion, which was passed, much to the chagrin of the Government of India, which held that the motion was “misguided”.
 
 Jagmeet clarified that the NDP did not have a motion prepared, but it would be appropriate for the Canadian Parliament to approve such a motion.
 
 The same report also quoted foreign affairs minister Chrystia Freeland’s spokesman  , saying the 1984 violence was tragic and the issue was close to the hearts of many Canadians of the Sikh faith.
 
 "We must continue to call for truth, justice and accountability for all victims. After 34 years, we must continue to ensure that those responsible are brought to justice. I think it's the right thing to do," he was quoted as saying. 
 
 "It would be a proper route to take, not only nationally but I think it's something that is appropriate at the international level as well to make sure this is clarified, that it was not communal violence but state-organised violence," he said.
 
 
