NAGPUR: The second inspection by the commissioner of Metro rail safety (CMRS) of the at grade stretch of   would be held in February. The first one was held on January 16 and customarily there is a gap of 20 days between the two inspections. Commercial operations of this section will start in February end or March depending on the time taken by the CMRS to issue the final certificate.

 A source in   said that during the first inspection, Arvind Kumar Jain, CMRS, central circle, Mumbai, had inspected the brake system, evacuation system, on board safety measures for passengers, passenger facilities, machines like hydraulic jack and shunter, emergency rescue equipment etc. “Jain also tested the acceleration of Metro engines. He told us about additional safety features and directed Mahametro to provide more facilities to the passengers. We will comply with the directives before the second inspection,” he added.
 
 During the second inspection, the CMRS will test the track and stations. “If Jain is satisfied with our equipment and facilities he will issue a certificate within some days. Else he may ask us to take action on some fronts,” the source further said.
 
 Jain accompanied by deputy commissioners of railway safety (DCRS) GP   and   had inspected the at grade stretch of Nagpur Metro on Tuesday. They also had a look at the Mihan train maintenance depot. The inspection, which continued almost the entire day, was followed by presentation and meeting with senior officials.
 
 The CMRS team had inspected passenger facilities and other operation rooms at the station. It had boarded the Metro from Airport South station and travelled to Mihan depot. Then it had held a meeting at Mihan depot where an audio-visual presentation was given to them. The progress of the project and other relevant details were shared with team during the presentation. 
 
 The team of CMRS officials then held another round of meeting with the Mahametro officials at Metro House in Civil Lines and appreciated details of the project including 5D BIM project monitoring system adopted by Mahametro. 
 
 Mahametro managing director Brijesh Dixit, director (project) Mahesh Kumar, director (rolling stocks and system) Sunil Mathur, director (finance) S   and general manager (administration) Anil Kokate accompanied the CMRS team during the inspection.
 
 The trial run of at grade section of Nagpur Metro was held on September 30, 2017. Mahametro then conducted oscillation tests on its own and sent the results to Research Design and Standards Organization (RDSO), Lucknow, which approved them. Now, the ball is in CMRS’s court.
 
 
