GHAZIABAD: The   Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) has issued a closure notice to a pre-school in   for not having permission from the education department to the run the institution.

 BSA Vinay Kumar said that an inspection of the school was conducted on February 5 after reports of a school helper allegedly sexually assaulting a girl student surfaced. An FIR was registered against the helper on February 2 after the parents of the three-and-half-year-old girl alleged that she had sexually assaulted their daughter several times over one year. According to the parents’ complaint, the accused had inserted her fingers into the girl’s private parts.
 
 The woman was arrested the same day and sent to jail after being produced at a Ghaziabad court.
 
 During the inspection, officials said several discrepancies were found at the school, and it was directed to submit the recognition certificate and no-objection certificates (NOCs) from various agencies to the education department within two days. However, it never complied with the order. The education department then on Friday issued the closure notice and threatened to file an FIR against the school management if the school was not closed with immediate effect. In case of non-compliance of the present notice, a fine of Rs 1 lakh will also be imposed on the school under the provisions of the RTE Act, added Kumar.
 
 “During the inspection, in addition to the pre-nursery classes, the school was also found to be running nursery and KG classes for which they had not taken any permission from my office. The management failed to produce documents related to police verification of its staff, NOCs from the fire department and the National Building Code. At that time the school had assured us that it would provide the documents in next two days,” said Kumar.
 
 Kumar said he spoke to several parents about the matter and came to know that the accused had also assaulted other students. Police have confirmed these allegations.
 
 When contacted, Rakesh Khullar, owner and chairman of the school, said, “I have not received any notice from the education department.” 
 
 He added, “However, there is no need to obtain any permission from the education department to run nursery and KG classes. There is no such rule.” 
 
 
