THRISSUR: There is nothing wrong in exploring the theme of violence around us in plays, says Sara Matchett, director of 'Womb of Fire', the South African play, which was featured in the International Theatre Festival of   (ITFoK).

 "An incisive analysis of violence will force the audience to reflect, she added, pointing out that   has passed through decades of strife since the very beginning of its existence as a nation.
 
 "The country has been founded on the suppression of indigenous people. They have been crushed to silence through violence, and it is vital to examine the wounds before we can go anywhere as a nation," Sara said. The play weaves the stories of three women into a dark tale. The first of them is Draupadi from Mahabharata. Second is Catrijin (1631-1682), the first recorded female convict and slave who was banished to Cape of Good Hope occupied by the Dutch. The third story recounts the life of Zara (1648-1671), an aboriginal woman employed as a servant from young age. Her body was impaled by then regime for committing suicide, as per archival records.
 
 Pointing out that the history of the indigenous people of South   had been erased,  , the playwright and main performer of the 'Womb of Fire' said a large number of women were brought from countries like India and Indonesia to South Africa as slaves, which accounts for the mixed ancestry for the coloured people in the country.
 
 He recounted the story of Sara Baartman, the woman, who was taken from South Africa in 1810 and then exhibited as a freak across Britain. Her body was dismembered and parts were exhibited in a museum in Europe after her death. A movement was launched to bring them back to South Africa and give her a decent burial. So, for the South Africans, remembering the colonial history is also about "re-membering" the dismembered body parts of Zara, Rehane said.
 
 The seed of the play was sown when Sara and Rehane were staying at Kalakshethra in Manipur as part of cultural exchange programme.  's short story "Draupadi" provided a mythical dimension to the play while researches on the lineages of the slave women gave it the archival backdrop. 
 
 The exploration of violence against the three women characters was not debilitating and the audience do not feel helpless, Sara said, adding that the last images of the play unravels a sort of re-birth of the victims.
 
 
