HYDERABAD:  , accused in the murder of an Indian software engineer Srinivas Kuchibotla in Olathe, Kansas, US last year, has pleaded guilty in the case. 

 Purinton, allegedly yelled "Get out of my country" before shooting Kuchibotla at Austin's Bar and Grill on February 22, 2017. Another software engineer from Hyderabad Alok Madasani suffered injuries when Purinton opened fire. Their friend Ian Grillot who tried to rescue 32-year-old Kuchibotla was also injured in the attack. Both have recovered.
 
 Adam Purinton, 52, pleaded guilty to one count of premeditated first degree murder in Kuchibotla's death and two counts of attempted first degree murders of Alok Madasani and Ian Grillot.
 
 Sunayana Dumala, Srinivas Kuchibotla's wife, who is in the US said, "Today's guilty verdict will not bring back my Srinu, but it will send a strong message that hate is never acceptable."
 
 The incident which is also being probed separately in a federal court as hate crime murder, who allege that he targeted Kuchibotla and Madasani because of their race, ethnicity or national origin, sent waves of shock globally. 
 
 District attorney,   said Adam W Purinton had pleaded guilty as charged. "The parties agreed to a maximum sentence on each count that will run consecutive to each other and to any sentence that may be imposed in Purinton's Federal case," according to a press release from the Office of the District Attorney. 
 
 As per court proceedings, Adam Purinton had walked up to Srinivas Kuchibotla at Austin's Bar and Grill and asked: "Where are you from?" "How did you get into this country?"
 
 After his arrest, Adam Purinton who was produced in court pleaded not guilty. However on March 6, he pleaded guilty.
 
 According to reports, Judge Charles Droege explained to him that changing his sentence meant he could face a life term in jail, as well as a minimum of 146 months, maximum of 653 months in prison for attempted murder. He would also face a sentence for the hate crime in a federal court.
 
 The sentencing has been scheduled for May 4.
 
 
