NEW DELHII: While the   are probing the   at  , they are nowhere near solving a   in which approximately   were siphoned off from   in   last year.

 A senior manager of a cash depositing firm, Sudhanshu Singh, said they had filed an FIR at the Malviya Nagar police station in September 2017 after finding that their employees had taken away money that was supposed to be deposited in ATMs.
 
 “There have been no arrest and we are yet to get the money back,” Singh said, adding that they have been told that the case has been assigned to other specialised units of Delhi Police.
 
 According to the investigating officers, two to three employees of the company were tasked with depositing the cash in the ATMs. But they started keeping some amount with themselves when the machines were being re-calibrated for the new currency notes after the demonetisation.
 
 A company official said the accused employees had tampered with the ATMs’ internal systems. “If the bank had asked for Rs 10 lakh to be deposited in an ATM, the employees would only put Rs 8 lakh. But they would tamper with the machine’s system, making it read the amount as Rs 10 lakh,” Singh explained.
 
 The accused employees had siphoned off small amounts over several months to avoid detection. The company got to know about it after the banks started deducting the missing amount while paying the firm.
 
 Senior police officers said the log details of the ATM machines were being checked and the CCTV footage were also being examined.
 
 Meanwhile, in the recent Janakpuri case, officials of Economic Offence Wing (EOW) have scanned the details of more than 40 ATMs and are corroborating them with the inputs sent by the suspects to the cash depositing company to find out whether they had also siphoned off cash while filling the ATMs. No FIR has been registered yet.
 
 “We are looking into the contacts with whom the suspects were in touch and trying to trace their location through these communications,” said a senior officer.
 
 
