MUMBAI:  's unexpected end evoked reactions of shock and sympathy from retired officers and contemporaries in the force, but the one sentiment that stood out was concern regarding the strain under which police officers functioned. 

 Former police commissioner  , who visited Roy's family to offer condolences, spoke of the adverse conditions in which policemen worked. 
 
 "Roy worked under tremendous pressure. He held posts which demanded utmost commitment and he lived up to the challenges. He was DCP (Zone I) when I was police commissioner. Thereafter, he became ATS chief which is also a very challenging job," Singh said, indicating that the persistent demands of the job affected Roy's health.
 
 The former top cop emphasised on the point that policemen constantly followed a routine fraught with conflicts and tensions that often take a toll. "They become depressed as they don't get sufficient leave," Singh said. Roy's death at his own hands using a service revolver should prompt government to "think about it," he said.
 
 Most retired officers who were senior to Roy recalled him as a "bright officer" who never flinched in the face of duty and faced up to every challenge. Former commissioner A N Roy said, "I met him after I heard that he was suffering from cancer. I would often call him and try to encourage him to fight the disease by citing some examples where people had won the battle against cancer. As a colleague, I feel sad that such a brilliant officer took the extreme step. We will miss him," he said.
 
 Arup Patnaik, who retired as director-general of police, said Roy's fitness levels were remarkable, but the disease he was battling was at an advanced stage "and he couldn't take it anymore. That's my hunch."
 
  Ex-DGP   said he would often call him 'Mr IPS' for his physique. He said he knew that Roy was suffering from cancer and was under the care of the same doctor who treated his wife. "My wife couldn't survive but I had hoped that Roy would fight and win. That didn't happen," said Inamdar. 
 
 
