NEW DELHI:   administration has devised a new method to help aspirants during admissions this year. All an applicant needs is a smartphone, an   that can scan QR codes, apart from the information bulletin. The bulletin has dedicated QR codes for colleges, departments and institutes of the university. 

 
 The college QR codes, on page 87 of the bulletin, have been divided according to their areas to help aspirants with directions in campuses. For example, the QR codes for Sri Venkateswara College will be under Dhaula Kuan area, while colleges like Lady Shri Ram have been placed under the south Delhi group. The advantage is for students who are new to Delhi and its colleges, who have trouble navigating through the departments, colleges and institutes of the university. 
 
 University officials said that the   has been synced with   Maps, such that each scan will take the applicant to the Google Maps location of the college and the colleges’ Google page, which has all information like phone numbers, address, operation times, etc. There are also plans to later on sync college-specific cutoff lists to these QR codes, such that each scan will give students information about the cutoff list for the college concerned.
 
 The drawback, said students, was access to smartphones. Some aspirants pointed out that all those coming to   do not necessarily possess smartphones with functional cameras to scan the codes. They also complained that one may need to download a separate application to scan QR codes, as not all phones come with in-built scanners.
 
 However, officials said that the codes can also be scanned using certain popular e-wallet apps that will direct them to Google pages of the scanned colleges.
 
 Another drawback, said students, was that all QR codes were closely placed on the information bulletin pages, which led to several misfires. For example, a student pointed out, that while trying to scan the QR code for  , the smartphone scanned the Germanic & Romance Studies department in Arts Faculty, placed right below the DSJ code.
 
 The university also plans to use QR codes during the open days, starting next week, to be able to register how many aspirants attended the interactive sessions, and also connect with them to provide regular updates.
 
