KOLKATA: Fifteen-year-old   did not have a study table or enough space in his one-room home to keep his books. The teen prepared for his   exams under streetlights, perched on a packing case a few yards away from his father’s bookstall on a Park Street pavement. Yet, the braveheart — a student of Harrow Hall School — has secured a remarkable 93% in his first public exam. Abhay now aims to crack the IIT entrance.

  
  
 
 His father — Rambabu — has been selling magazines, newspapers and second-hand books near Moulin Rouge on Park Street for the last 20 years. The family did not have enough resources to provide him with the best of facilities. But Abhay worked hard to live up to his father’s dream. “He always wanted my brother and me to study so that we could converse in English and read English novels which he has been selling for the last two decades. My father barely earns enough to make meet both ends meet. We are a joint family and since there isn’t enough space to study at home, I studied under streetlights and sometimes in hotel lobbies and corridors for my board exam. I studied mostly at night after returning from school between 7pm and 10:30pm,” said Abhay.
 
 The ICSE results on Monday brought tears of joy in Rambabu’s eyes. “My dream is slowly turning into reality,” he said. Abhay has got admitted to the prestigious St James’ School for his plus two.
 
 Despite the adversities, Abhay was confident of scoring above 90%. He is grateful to his schoolteachers who went out of their way to assist him with his studies, offering him free coaching after school. He also attended a tutorial free of cost. Since Rambabu could not afford to enrol his elder son to a tutorial, his customers offered generous contributions to help Abhay buy text books and necessary stationary items.
 
 Abhay’s success is being hailed by his school. Harrow Hall School principal Jagmohan Singh said, “The boy studied very hard and he put in his best efforts. Abhay is very disciplined and well-mannered.”
 
 Though he is elated with his results, Abhay now wants to focus on the future. He knows it could be a tougher journey since he aims to crack arguably the toughest entrance — the IITJEE. “One of my cousins is already working in a reputed firm in Mumbai after passing out from an IIT. I’m motivated by his successand take his suggestions,” he said.
 
 An ardent debater, Abhay is also keen on sports. “I was forced to discontinue sports due to exam pressure,” he said. His success mantra is simple. “It is not important to study long hours but effectively. Also, one should study for the joy of gathering knowledge and not just to earn a degree,” said Abhay.
 
 Getting into an IIT is not easy, he knows. “Without the right training and proper guidance I may not be able to crack the entrance exam. Coaching centres are demanding high fee which my parents can’t afford. They have to look after my younger brother who is in Class V. I’m looking for financial support to enrol in a tutorial centre,” said the Market Street resident.
 
 
 
 
