ALWAR:   from Alwar city  , known for his communal rants, has courted fresh controversy by urging Hindu families not to allow Muslims to enter their homes. Talking to TOI on Monday, the second-term MLA stated that Muslims were habitually involved in all kinds of crimes. He boasted that he neither allowed Muslims to enter his residence or office nor sought their votes.

 
  
  
 
 “Meo Muslims do not vote for BJP. I also do not go after them for votes. Seeking votes from them would mean that I have to help them in getting away with crime that they habitually commit. This is the main reason that I have always maintained a safe distance from them,” said Singhal.
 
 
 
 The BJP MLA, who has been associated with   in the past, alleged that Muslims were involved in crimes like cow slaughter, ‘love jihad’, creating fake identities and fraud.
 
 The MLA is making these controversial statements to allegedly polarise the society following BJP’s defeat in the Alwar Lok Sabha bypoll held in January this year.
 
 Singhal’s anti-Muslim statements have come unprovoked and were made at his own community meeting at Alwar on Sunday. When asked by TOI to clarify his statements, the MLA repeated his rant more fiercely on Monday.
 
 He claimed that  , who are predominant in Alwar and Bharatpur districts, receive a special package for carrying out ‘love jihad’ (Muslim boys enticing and marrying Hindu girls).
 
 "Love Jihad has become a tradition for Meo Muslims here. They create fake IDs on Facebook and lure Hindu girls to love relationships. They marry Hindu girls and make their life hell. On the contrary, Muslim girls despite being illiterate or less educated do not love or marry Hindu boys,” said Singhal.
 
 The Alwar MLA slammed Hindu women for falling in the trap of Muslim boys. “Even those Hindu girls who are talented and intellectual become secular and marry Meo Muslim boys. These Hindu women are generally thrown out by their Meo Muslim husbands after two years. I appeal to Hindu families, parents and elders to not allow Muslims into their homes and check love jihad,” Singhal said.
 
 He continued his   by saying that Meo Muslims were butchers.
 
 
