NEW DELHI:  ,   is likely to release the admit cards for the Joint Entrance Examination, JEE Main 2018 by March 12, 2018. 

 Instructions in the CBSE's "Information Bulletin" say, All the candidates who have submitted the online application and paid the examination fee till last date will be allowed to appear in JEE (Main) and their admit cards will be uploaded on the website as per schedule. 
 
 Para six, which is about the admit card reads: 6. ADMIT CARD FOR JEE (Main) - 2018 The Admit Card can be downloaded from JEE (Main) website from 2nd week March 2018 onwards. The candidates are advised to download their admit cards from JEE (Main) website only. The Candidates are also advised to regularly see JEE (Main) website for updates. A help desk will also be functional on all working days from 9.00 AM to 5.30 PM for general facilitation. The phone numbers of the help desk are available on the website of JEE (Main).
 
 However, sources at the CBSE, revealed that the JEE Main 2018 Admit cards would be release either on March 12, 2018 or max by March 13, 2018. The source said, "it's a tentative date, we advise candidates to check the JEE (Main) website regularly". 
 
 The  ,   has also notified following two changes in the JEE pattern from 2017:
 
 1. There shall be no weightage for the 12th class marks in calculating the ranks in the JEE (Main) examination,
 
 2. For the candidates to qualify for the admission in the IITs/NITs/IIITs and such other CFTIs whose admissions are based on the JEE (Advanced)/JEE(Main) ranks, they should have secured at least 75% marks in the 12th class examination, or be in the top 20 percentile in the 12th class examination conducted by the respective Boards. For SC/ST students the qualifying marks would be 65% in the 12th class examination.
 
 The States of Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Uttrakhand, Nagaland, Odisha & some other institutions have joined JEE (Main) system, however, their admission criteria will be notified by the concerned authorities. Therefore, the candidates seeking admission to the institutions in these states, which were earlier admitting based on their State level examination, are also advised to fill in the JEE (Main)-2018 application form online. The Paper-1 (B. E./B. Tech.) of JEE (Main) will also be an eligibility test for the JEE (Advanced), which the candidate has to take if he/she is aspiring for admission to the undergraduate programmes offered by the IITs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
