HYDERABAD: Attending to an   might not be part of her job; yet 31-year-old Pallavi Murty went all out to assist two men grievously injured in a recent mishap along the  . 

 
 "One's pulse was very weak and I had to shake him very hard to keep him breathing till the ambulance came. I also had to administer first aid to the rider who had suffered a head injury," said Murty, lead cabin attendant with IndiGo, attributing her ability to think on her feet and extend medical help in times of emergency, to "rigorous training" with the carrier.
 
 
 Speaking on the occasion of   -observed on May 31 - IndiGo's first (base) crew member from the city to be recruited in 2008, said how the job entails much more than the glamorous identity visible to the world. "It's a lot of hard work. From tackling technical issues to calamities, one has to do it all," she said, adding the job also taught her to maintain a work-life balance.
 
 Her narrative wasn't too different from that of  's who has been serving   for 28 years. "This job gives you the confidence to take on any challenge in life. It makes you more disciplined and diligent," said Dutta, manager of in-flight services and a   hostess. "In the latter role, I accompany heads of states (Prime Ministers, Presidents etc) and interact with their core teams. The learning is unmatchable," she said, glad that more people from across economic strata of society are now joining this profession.
 
 Stressing the exhaustive training imparted at their institute, IndiGo officials said how they closely focus on preparing the crew "to change lives and people, across geographies and generations". "We invest hugely in learning and development to ensure that our team is equipped enough to manage critical situations. Our learning model is crisp to make it impactful, integrated with operations to make it actionable and do-able, keeping it as close to reality, as possible," said Summi Sharma, vice president of ifly - IndiGo's dedicated learning academy.
 
 
