PUNE: Social activist Anjali Damania on Monday filed an intervention application in a sessions court here opposing the state anti-corruption bureau’s ( ) closure report in the MIDC Bhosari land purchase deal involving former revenue minister Eknath   and his relatives. 

 On April 27, the ACB filed the closure report before a special court stating that there was no evidence to file a chargesheet against Khadse and others. While the probe originated from a complaint filed in May 2016 by Pune-based builder and whistle-blower Hemant Gawande, Damania said she had also filed a complaint letter related to the matter with the ACB on August 1, 2017 but the bureau did not take its cognisance.
 
 Damania told TOI, “It is shocking that the ACB filed a closure report despite ample evidence, including documented proof, I had given to the probe agency, showing the flow of money from the bank accounts held by Khadse and wife Mandakini and proofs for a probe into their sources of income.” 
 
 She has prayed, among other things, that her intervention plea be allowed and she be given a copy, along with the bunch of documents submitted as closure report, and an opportunity to be heard before the court takes a call on accepting or rejecting the closure report. 
 
 Her lawyer, Asim Sarode, said, “The intervention application was filed before sessions judge R H Mohammad as the special judge before whom the ACB filed the closure report, was on leave. The sessions court has passed an order directing the original complainant (Gawande) and the state prosecution to file their replies on the intervention plea by June 5.” 
 
 In her 15-page application, Damania termed the ACB’s probe as “an inquiry just to create eyewash” as the probe agency appears to have ignored the money flow from Khadse’s bank account to that of his wife and also a sudden surge in the deposit of huge sums of money in their accounts between January and April 2016. “Had the ACB verified the bank transactions, they could not have filed such an absurd closure report,” she added. 
 
 The ACB has “overlooked the obvious elements of corrupt practices and misuse of power by Khadse”, the plea stated. ACB (Pune) superintendent of police Sandeep Diwan said, “We have filed a detailed report relating to the case with the court and the matter is sub judice.” 
 
 
