Gurgaon:   can enrapture an audience as much with his storytelling skills as, unquestionably, he can with his talent on the tabla. One of the most recognisable faces in music for the best part of four decades, the Ustad turned raconteur on Tuesday evening, regaling Gurugrammers with stories from his life, in the latest in the Algebra Conversations series, at DLF Club5.

 Joining in the nostalgia-infused chat was writer and producer Nasreen Munni Kabir, whose ‘Zakir Hussain: A Life in Music’, recently released, is a sequence of engrossing one-on-ones with the Ustad over the course of two years.
 
 Ustad Zakir Hussain held forth on the extraordinary language of music, one that is understood everywhere (no matter its roots). He spoke lovingly of his father, and reverentially of Pandit Ravi Shankar (among others). The conversation was sprinkled with nuggets of wisdom. “A teacher doesn’t teach, a student learns. And a teacher is inspired to teach by the student,” he said, memorably.
 
 The tabla maestro began from the beginning. When Zakir was born, his father didn’t, as custom dictated, whisper a prayer into his ear. Instead, he played out the rhythm of the tabla. “But my father never wanted me to copy him – he told me I should be better than him.”
 
 The father, Allarakha Qureshi (who would, one day, come to be known as Alla Rakha), ran away from home, to Lahore, to seek the guidance of the legendary Mian Kader Baksh, of the Punjab gharana of tabla players, whom he had only ever seen in a photograph in the paper. Much later, a young Zakir would play a piece in the style of Mian Kader, never having heard him, much to his father’s bewilderment. “He couldn’t believe it, and was pacing the room. He asked, ‘How did I come upon this?’” It was destined, then, that the spirit of Kader Baksh would guide the lives of both father and son.
 
 Because Alla Rakha spent a lot of time touring with Pandit Ravi Shankar (among other venerable solo artistes), Zakir happily acknowledged their role in his music education. And he admitted how watching the work of drummers and percussionists in the genres of rock, pop and jazz helped enhance his own tabla playing.
 
 Wistfully, the Ustad shared how a spirit of syncretism had imbued his father’s generation. “In the mornings, he would seek the blessings of the pandit, the priest and the maulana, but it was never forced on him that he should follow one way of faith.” 
 
 More than a chip off the old block, Zakir Hussain proved he is a living example of the all-embracing soul that is India’s.
 
 
