NAGPUR:   addiction, whether through smoking or chewing, creates both physiological and psychological dependence on nicotine. Hence giving up tobacco becomes extremely difficult. But of late, though with limited results, nicotine replacement therapy ( ) is emerging as a solution.

 
 
 Dr Sameer Arbat, chest physician, told TOI that he has tried NRT on some patients but it has worked only on those who have real desire to quit smoking. “It all depends on the will power and the person’s desire. If someone is willing, only then there are 50-70% chances that the person will quit smoking. Like any other addiction, smoking too has withdrawal syndrome if a person tries to give it up. These symptoms can be tolerated by a person only if (s)he has the will. Hence, NRT should be tried only based on the doctor’s advice and not as self-medication,” he said.
  
  
 Dr Vikram Rathi, chest physician, said NRT helps in reducing the craving by supplying the body with NRT nicotine. “It (NRT) contains about one-third to one-half of nicotine contained in the cigarette. The purpose is to get nicotine into bloodstream without smoking as it minimizes the ill-effects of smoking. NRT includes nicotine gums, patches, inhalers, tablets, lozenges and sprays.” Dr Rathi too has a word of caution: “If you want to quit (smoking), talk to your doctor.”
 
 Dr Stuti Bhargava, assistant professor at VSPM Dental College, who had this subject in doctoral thesis says that habit cessation is easier under expert guidance compared to individual himself as there is behaviour counselling and NRT is done specifically based on the individual needs. “But unfortunately there are very few experts and cessation centres,” she said. Dr Bhargava, who herself will be soon going to US for a training at the National Institute of Health, says besides awareness there is need for developing experts and centres of excellence in cessation.
 
 NRT is recognized globally as an effective treatment to help smokers quit the stick, but it has not yielded similar results with persons who chew tobacco in any form. Hence, the chances of oral cancers in these persons is much more than smokers. “The chewers need other techniques for quitting tobacco,” said Dr Bhargava.
 
 
