NAGPUR: In a unique initiative, city traffic volunteers will aid secondary and high secondary students to effectively reach their examinations hall on time through promoting smooth flow of traffic and reducing the congestion during the months of February, March and April. 

 The ongoing construction works of roads and Metro in major areas such as Wardha Road and   have increased the traffic issues giving rise to congestion and accidents. 
 
 This prompted city-based NGO, Crystal Foundation, to come up with the initiative which focuses on recruiting volunteers to maintain the traffic flow in the city. The representatives of the foundation approached S Chaitanya, DCP (Traffic) recently and started an awareness campaign to promote public participation in reducing the traffic related issues.
 
 City board officials told   that students must reach the examination hall well ahead of time, keeping in mind the location between their examination centre and their homes. “Students must reach the hall one hour before the examination time, sometimes even one and a half-hour before so that the issue of being late never comes into play,” board officials added. 
 
 The secondary and high secondary examinations begins in February and March, going on till April. Foundation president,  , said, “The ongoing construction process in the city has added to the road congestion problem on the major roads. We do not want students to bear the brunt and aim to help them reach their examination centre on time.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, Chaitanya said, “We will make sure the traffic flow is smooth during the peak hours of 9am to 11am. If needed, we will deploy traffic cops at certain busy junctures and schools to reduce congestion. Keeping in mind the safety of the child, we will work onto the safe commotion for student as well as general public.”
 
 City board officials told TOI that students must reach the examination hall well ahead of time, keeping in mind the location between their examination centre and their homes. “Students must reach the hall one hour before the examination time, sometimes even one and a half-hour before so that the issue of being late never comes into play,” board officials added. 
 
 Parents, teachers and students all welcome the move. One of the students,  , said, “Traffic problem is a very big issue and such initiatives can ultimately reduce the burden of reaching the examination hall within the vicinity of the allotted time. Students can now leave the tension and concentrate upon the study and the examinations.”
 
 Parents too echoed the same thought. Housewife   said, “The initiative brings about a sense of belonging in the community and brotherhood is promoted. In times of communal divide carrying out in the country, children can learn about the importance of togetherness and looking out for others.”
 
 Another parent Zaid Khan added, “The step will not only help children reach on time but also promotes moral values in the students. If a man helps a young boy in need, not only is the issues of the boy is being solved but the young one also learns the concept of compassion and will pass on the same when he grows up.”
 
 
