KOLKATA: After over 30 hours and hectic parleys from top trade union leaders of the ruling party, local councillors and the divisional police later, auto services on the Garia-Tollygunge route finally resumed around Friday noon. The drivers went on a flash strike on Thursday after their colleague, Iman Ali Khan (52), was arrested for allegedly molesting a woman passenger in his vehicles in the presence of her son.

 Trouble continued through the day: even as services resumed in the afternoon—causing much inconvenience to commuters during the morning rush hours—not more than half the 450 vehicles on the route started operating. Moreover, auto drivers even on other routes operating from the same stand, such as Garia-Boral and Garia-Kalibari, refused to let any woman sit in front as they “wanted to stay out of trouble”.
 
 
 Thousands of commuters from Naktala,   and   had a trying time in the morning, as they were told autos were still on strike. Like on Thursday, they either had to take over-crowded buses or pay   the fares to reach the nearest Metro stations. Some were forced to walk. “I walked over 1.1km to reach Metro. I missed the first class,” said Sikha Dhami, a second-year student.
 
 Even as auto drivers continued their protest in the morning, cops at the Netaji Nagar police station recorded the victim’s statement before a magistrate and a complaint of threat was registered against auto driver Kelo and others —the woman identified three drivers who threatened her—at the Bansdroni police station. “We will send a notice to Kelo,” said an officer. The victim also visited the Bansdroni police station where she was promised help. Within hours, auto drivers claimed, detentions were made but DC (east & south suburban) Rupesh Kumar denied it.
 
 A rift among auto drivers were apparent since early on Friday. Though services resumed partially late on Thursday, most again went off the roads following the news that at least three drivers, including Kelo, were rounded up for threat. A few autos did ply till 8am on Friday, apparently as instructed by union leaders, but services were stopped after those reaching the Garia stand was told “not to return”. “All 450 of us believe both sides had made a mistake in interpreting things,” claimed Raja Bose, a driver.
 
   , including INTTUC leader Subhasish Chakraborty, visited the spot. “I am trying to get justice for Iman. I was at court. Will I concentrate there or listen to your immediate demands?” he was heard saying. After he left, some more convincing finally led drivers to resume services.
 
 
