MOHALI: Punjab local government minister   visited the site of building   at Peer Muchalla in   and inspected the municipal council ( ) records on Thursday. He said the builders flouted norms and constructed high-rise flats where approval was accorded only for construction of houses. 

 Sidhu constituted a high-level committee of four officers, led by the local bodies’ director, to probe the case and submit the report within seven days.
 
 
  
  
 
 Sidhu learnt that the building licence had expired and the design was not certified by a structural engineer. He said design has to be certified in accordance with the sanctioned plan and submitted with the MC after the building construction has been completed. But this procedure was not followed.
 
 He was told that the building plans were cleared in haste without verification and soil testing. The minister told the TOI that as per the records of the Zirakpur MC, out of the six plots of the building (number 139 to 144), the licence of five had expired in October 2017 and of the remaining on March 31 last. This makes it clear that the builders had constructed the building without licences. Besides, the area where the building came up was meant for six single-storey houses and not multi-storey flats. 
 
 Sidhu said, “We have constituted a four-member committee led by the department director. It will submit its report in seven days. The committee also includes chief engineer, town planner and executive officer of the Zirakpur municipal council. 
 
 
 
 
 Once the committee submits its report, the guilty will not be spared and strict action will be taken. The incident is a lesson. I have decided to conduct a tour of the state to inspect all buildings and ensure that none is being constructed without proper approvals and licences,” Sidhu said. Sidhu was accompanied by local government director Karnesh Sharma, SSP Kuldeep Chahal, Derabassi SDM Paramjit Singh, senior Congress leader Deepinder Singh Dhillon and MC executive officer Manbir Singh.
 
