LUCKNOW: The humble ‘chowkidar’, whose call for ‘Jaagte Raho’ has punctuated the silence of dark nights for years — especially in UP villages — will now be known as a ‘prahari’. While nothing would change on ground for the more than 1lakh watchmen employed by the state, the name marks a switch from an   term used for decades to now chaste Hindi.

 In a cabinet decision taken on Tuesday, the government said that necessary changes would be made to the UP Police Regulation. “On January 5, 2018, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced in Varanasi that the village ‘chowkidar’ would be called ‘prahari’. In keeping with that promise, the UP Police Regulation is being amended,” said government sources.
 
 Deputy CM Dinesh Sharma told TOI that the demand for name change came from ‘chowkidar’ to ‘prahari’ came from the Chowkidars’ Association. A senior government official told TOI that the term ‘prahari’ (protector) was a much more respectable term, compared to ‘chowkidar’ (watchman).
 
 The word ‘prahari’ was also mentioned in the fifth report of the  , appointed in 1810, he said, adding “The word ‘chowkidar’ carries negative connotations. ‘Prahari’ is a much more respectable term and therefore we have decided to revert to it.”
 
 The sudden focus on watchmen is not new. In 2013, the Samajawadi Party government gave new bicycles and torches to each of more than 1lakh watchmen working under the district police in rural areas across the state. Sources said that the ‘chowkidars’ work as extensions of rural policing and play a key role in elections in rural areas.
 
 The   government has courted controversy on several counts of name change since it came to power in 2017. It announced a change in the name of Allahabad to Prayagraj. The change is expected to be formalised before the next Kumbh. Next year’s Kumbh itself saw a change in terminology when the word ‘ardh’ was removed from it. Besides, the historic town of Mughalsarai has also been renamed as Deen Dayal Upadhyay Nagar, after the prominent Jan Sangh leader.
 
 Most recently, while claiming to give respect to Dalit icon BR Ambedkar, the government said that it would use his full name in official documents, Bhim Rao ‘Ramji’ Ambedkar. The move riled several prominent Dalits, including BSP chief  . In the 1990s, during Kalyan Singh’s term as the CM, the government had changed the name of iconic   to Urmila Vatika, after the wife of  , the younger brother of Lord Ram.
 
