COIMBATORE: A day after he welcomed the bus fare hike, Union minister of state for finance and shipping Pon   did a U-turn and urged the state government to rollback the hike immediately. He also blamed the   government for burdening the public with a steep rise in bus fares at one go.

 At a press meet in Hosur on Sunday, he had told the media that there was nothing wrong in increasing the bus fare.
 
 Addressing the media here on Monday, the senior   leader said the hiked fares should be slashed. “From the beginning, i have been asking the state government to reduce the bus fare. But i was misquoted in the media,” he clarified.
 
 “The bus fare should be increased gradually over the past six years. But the state government did not do that. Now, it has increased the fare indiscriminately. Don’t think it’s for the welfare of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation,” the Union minister said.
 
 State BJP president Tamilisai Sounderrajan had earlier registered strong objection to the steep increase in bus fare. But when Radhakrishnan welcomed the hike initially, the media had asked him about the different stands taken by the party leaders. He had then ruled out any misunderstanding in BJP.
 
 When pointed out that lyrist Vairamuthu, who courted controversy for referring to   deity Andal as a devadasi in an essay he wrote for a vernacular daily, has expressed regrets over the issue, Radhakrishnan said the former hasn’t tendered an apology.
 
 “Variramuthu has told the media that he treated Andal as his mother. So, he needn’t tender apology to politicians or religious leaders. He should ask apology to Andal,” he said.
 
 The Union minister also refused to comment on the budget and asked the people to wait for two more days. “The Centre is ready to help implement the Athikadavu-Avinashi project. The Dravidian parties are cheating the people of Kongu region in the name of the project and they should fight against the parties. Tamil Nadu will benefit only if regional political outfits were to disappear from the state,” Radhakrishnan said.
 
 Asked about the petrol price hike, he said it was fixed based on the international market price. 
 
 He also exuded confidence that the BJP would taste victory in the state in the upcoming parliament election.
 
 
