Agartala: The   has complained to chief election commissioner ( )   Rawat that   (CEO) Sriram Taranikanta is not taking any action against BJP which has allegedly brought a large number of party workers to the state from outside in view of the assembly election next week. 

 CPM state secretary Bijan Dhar on Friday said the party had brought the issue to the notice of the CEO who could not promise to prevent the entry of outsiders. CPM central secretariat member Nilotpal Basu met the CEC and submitted a memorandum alleging that a large number of outsiders have been camping in Tripura and that some of them are even using official accommodations, violating the model code. 
 
 "A number of outsiders have taken shelter in temples, tourism guest houses, hotels and houses across the state and are doing political work for BJP. This is dangerous for law and order," the memorandum said. 
 
 Dhar said, "Tripura is a border state and holding the election peacefully is extremely important from the security aspect. Unless the election administration takes a pro-active approach to deal with any attempt to subvert peace, it will be difficult to ensure free and fair polls in the state". He alleged that BJP is trying to sway the voters with false promises and hopes and that leaders of the party are creating trouble in the state.
 
 On the other hand, BJP's Tripura in-charge Sunil Deodhar expressed concern over the sharp deterioration in the law and order situation in the state following the arrest of a cloth trader, reportedly a CPM supporter, with arms. He said the accused tribal youth of Jatanbari in Amarpur subdivision, identified as   (40), has links with the ruling party. 
 
 "The ruling party is trying to disturb peace and harmony in the state before the assembly polls. CPM cadres have reportedly accumulated arms to disrupt polls and police are not taking steps to arrest the criminals. The central paramilitary forces (CPF) are not being used properly," added Deodhar.
 
 He further alleged that CPM has mobilized its mafia in Majlishpur, Mandai, Belonia and   constituencies.
 
