PRATAPGRAH: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday rebuked Pratapgarh district officials after he came to know from villagers at a chaupal in Jandhai Madhupur village that most of the government schemes were not available to them. After the scheduled proceedings at the chaupal, he started asking the public, “Who all have got the subsidy for toilets; how many have got houses under government scheme and how many have got ration card.” When most of the villagers answered in negative and started shouting slogans against district officials, Yogi called on stage the DM, CDO and DPRO (District panchayat raj officer). He asked each of them what they had done for the villagers. In an angry mood, he instructed the DM to transfer the subsidy of toilets in the bank account of each beneficiary by Tuesday. Yogi instructed the DPRO, S K Pandey to announce the name of each beneficiary (numbering around 136). In between, Yogi was seen asking the public to keep their calm. Whenever a group seemedto gooutof control,the strict scolding of the CM would make them pay attention to what he wanted to tell them. The maiden chaupal of chief minister Yogi Adityanath at Kandhai Madhupur in Pratapgarh would be remembered by the people of 26 ‘purvas’ (club of village) for many years. For, this was a chaupal with a difference, wherein the CM was the monitor, calling the rollcallof officials, making them answer villagers’questions, scolding and even making the class behave when some of the students (villagers) became unruly as he taught them about government schemes and how to benefitfrom them. Since his arrival at the venue in village Kandhai Madhupur of Mangrora block of Pratapgrah district, Yogi was seen in total control. He began with inspecting howthe authorities had planned the seating arrangements for the villagers. Breaking the security protocol, he instructed district magistrate Shambhu Kumar to move the women to the inner circle of the security ring called ‘D’. As the women were accommodatedinsidethe ring, he started interacting with them, several of them handing their application directly to him. Thereafter, the administration started the proceedings,including laying thefoundation stone of several projects, gifting the beneficiaries withthekeysof thehousesunder the ‘Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna’ (PM housing scheme) and other schemes meant for village folk. He also gave gifts to five pregnant women for ‘godh bharai’ (baby shower ceremony) and offered ‘kheer’ (rice pudding)tofivekids ashe performed ‘ann parashan’ (ceremony to feed first grain) of thesekids. The CM informed the villagers about various schemes of the government and how they can fight poverty, help themselves by making ‘self help groups’,howbankswould give them easy loans etc. He also informed the villagers about portalslike ‘anti-corruption portal’. Villagers cheered when the CM told them that he willstaywiththem in the night and visit their village in the morning to inspect the facilities for potable water in their village. He appealed to the villagers to keep track of government schemes and be vigilant. He also said that now that the government would be providing toiletstoeachhousehold,it is the responsibility of all to make the village free from open defecation by the end of this year, to which everyone cheered.