Political crisis deepens in the state as the beleaguered Devendra Fadnavis ministry gears up, a tad nervously, to face a hostile Opposition on the caste issue following the Maharashtra ‘bandh’ on Wednesday.

 
 With reports emanating from the heartland that the Maratha Maha Sangh plans to revive its pro-reservation stir across the state next month, the situation appears grim for the CM, said observers. The Maratha community’s demand that the anti-atrocities Act should be toned down has made Dalit organisations restive, it is said.
 
 
  
 
 A sizeable section in the state   is of the view that the Sharad Pawar-led NCP is closing in on Fadnavis chiefly because he is a Brahmin. “The NCP is playing the Maratha card to perpetuate the caste conflict in Maharashtra,” said aBJP veteran.
 
 
 Arjun Dangle, a key Dalit strategist and writer who heads the Dalit Jan Shakti Sanghatana, was quick to rebut the BJP charge against Pawar. “Pawarsahebwas the first to issue an appeal for peace,” said Dangle.
 
 
 Sources said the BJP is worried on two counts: first, the unprecedented show of strength by Dalits across the state on Wednesday. Life came to a standstill in many districts, including Pune, Satara, Kolhapur, Jalgaon, Aurangabad and the coastal Konkan region too—regions which are considered bastions of traditional political parties such as the BJP,  , Congress and NCP.
 
 
 Second, that the simmering caste conflict, largely considered a rural issue, should cripple Mumbai for a good 10 hours has sent the alarm bells ringing in the BJP. BJP chief Amit Shah has been closely monitoring the situation in Mumbai, it is learnt. The party high command asked Fadnavis in the early hours of Wednesday to handle the law and order situation calmly.
 
 
 “This explains why the Mumbai police restrained from coming down heavily on Dalit protesters,” said a party functionary.
 
 
 Many in the BJP admit that the party is paying a price for failing to curb the hawks. Bharatiya Republican Party chief  , who spearheaded, with ample backing from 12 Dalit groups, the statewide ‘bandh’, has made matters difficult for Fadnavis by demanding that   and   should be arrested and tried under IPC Section 302.
 
 
 Bhide of the Shiv Pratishthan, and Ekbote of the  , have been accused by the Oppositionof fanning communal hatred on the eve of the Mahar conclave at Koregaon Bhima on Monday. “Bhide had the cheek to hold a workshop in a state-run zilla parishad school in Koregaon Bhima during the   vacation last year to spread his communal agenda,” Dangle added.
 
 
 However, the BJP may find it difficult to order a crackdown on the two Hindutva functionaries, given their links with the Sangh Parivaar, sources said. “Both Bhide and Ekbote are popular because of their tireless efforts to propagate the teachings of Samarth Ramdas (a medieval saint-poet) and Shivaji Maharaj,” said the state BJP functionary. “Bhide was not in Koregaon Bhima when trouble broke out in the village. He was in   and had gone to offer condolences to (senior NCP leader) Jayantrao Patil who lost his mother recently,” he added.
 
