Rajkot: The Deendayal Port (Kandla) witnessed some emotional moments when Shahbaz Khan, the crew member of vessel Durga, who was confined to the ship since February last year, finally met his father. Shahbaz and Sarafat Mohammed Ali Walele, chief engineer of the vessel were allowed to leave the ship.

 In fact, Shahbaz’s father had come all the way from Kolkata desperately pleading for his release as his mother is suffering from cancer. The family’s financial condition has also weakened as he has not been paid salary for several months now. 
 
 “They were allowed to sign off from the ship on September 23 last year but confined inside a vessel called Durga. They were released after the intervention of Kutch east SP Bhavna Patel,” said Joseph Chacko, administrator of Kandla Seafarers’ Association. 
 
 Sarafat is a native of Maharashtra and will leave for his state soon.
 
 Two ships — Nautical Global VII and Nautical Global XVI owned by UAE-based Gulf Shipping Service — have been anchored near the port following the orders of Gujarat high court on February 27 last year. The court order came after a dispute arose between Nautical Global Ship management (NGSM), the company which was given the management of the vessels, and the Gulf Shipping. 
 
 When TOI spoke to the father-son duo, they even broke down on the phone. "I can't believe I have been freed. I can't wait to see my ailing mother. The ship owners have given immense pain to my parents. I desperately need money for my mother's cancer treatment," said 24-year-old Shahbaaz.
 
 His father Mukhtar Khan, who is engaged in fishing in Asansol, said, "I couldn't recognize my son...his physical condition was miserable. We used to recharge his mobile to speak with him but charging phone battery was a problem as they got electricity just once in four days."
 
 NGSM had engaged Amrut Dredging and Shipping Services to provide and food, medicines and other necessary facilities to the 16 crew members on the vessels, and later abandoned the vessels. According to the port rules, when a ship is parked in the sea in jurisdiction of the port area minimum six crew members should stay in the ship. 
 
 Meanwhile, the Deendayal Port Trust (DPT) submitted an inspection report to the high court in which it stated that the crew members, who are all Indians, are living in inhuman condition. They have not been paid salaries for the last seven months. 
 
 The crew members filed a writ petition in the high court praying that they be allowed to sign off from the duty as they haven’t get the salary and their contract period was over. HC directed DPT to inspect the situation and submit the report. DPT formed a team under the leadership of Chacko.
 
 “In past six months, very less or no food and other necessary things were supplied by NGSM through their agents. Food supplied is getting spoiled as out four generators only one is in working condition in both the ships and that too may stop any time, as there are no spare parts on the ship. The UAE-based owner company has engaged Preetika Shipping Agency Pvt Ltd to supply food to the crew members on humanitarian ground at the end of December 2017 but the situation has not changed much,” said Chacko.
 
 Talking to TOI, Chacko said, “The living condition of the seafarers is miserable with food being made using diesel stove and the ship is full of insects and cockroaches. The seafarers have to literally remove insects from their cooked food. There is no sufficient medicine available. 
 
 The report also stated that many of these seafarers have loans and EMIs to be paid and their houses and properties are being seized by the banks. “They are extremely worried and want to sign off urgently to save their families. The crew are also threatening to commit suicide.” 
 
 The report suggested that the court must order the shipowners to allow the crew members to sign off so that they can reunite with their families.
 
 
