INDORE: A group of eight passengers, including three women and three kids, was stuck for nearly one and a half hour inside a newly installed   at island platforms on Tuesday afternoon. All of them were later rescued safely. 

 The lift was inaugurated by union railway minister   just 20 days ago. 
 
 The passengers took lift at platform no.6 from ground floor around 4.30pm. They had to board   (18233) train. However, the elevator suddenly stopped between ground floor and first floor. Passengers waited for around 10 minutes but it did not open. Then, they started shouting for help and one of the railway police staff rushed to the spot.
 
 The railway protection force (RPF) staff also reached there, but eventually decided to call fire tenders and the agency engaged in maintenance and operation of elevator to avoid any mishap. 
 
 RPF officials and fire agency staff arranged equipment and rescued the passengers after opening the panels of the elevator and bringing it to the floor level. 
 
 Having remained trapped for around one and half an hour, some of the women passengers allegedly felt dizziness due to lack of oxygen before they were rescued. Fire service and other agencies were also present on the spot to assist, in case required. 
 
 “It was a terrible experience for all us. After 10 minutes, we realized that the lift got stuck,” Rinku Jaiswal – one of the passengers told TOI. 
 
 She said that they tried to call for help but no one came. Then they tried to open the elevator’s gate on their own. They managed to open the gate partially, but the lift got stuck nearly 2ft below the floor. They were seen calling for help and making calls.
 
 To ensure that passengers board the train, railways stopped Narmada Express for around half an hour. “The train was allowed to leave only after passengers boarded it,” he added. 
 
 Refusing to speculate the exact reason for malfunction of the elevator, the railway’s spokesman alleged that the passengers were carrying too many luggage with them. “It was a case of overloading. The maximum weight carrying capacity of the lift is 640kg, and the load of people inside with the luggage was more than that,” he said. 
 
 
