NAGPUR: It could be termed as a perfect case of depriving lakhs of poor patients from getting cheap medicines at Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCHs) across Maharashtra. Thanks to state government’s failure to finalize tenders for opening 27   in the GMCHs, even after floating two of them in last two years.

 Launched in 2008, Jan Aushadhi is the centre’s novel project providing quality generic medicines at affordable prices through stores in GMCHs and prominent areas in entire country. 
 
 A city-based NGO, Poor People’s Welfare Society (PPWS), which participated in both the tenders, has now lodged a complaint with the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) and Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) after failing to get any response from the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) and also from the medical education minister Girish  .
 
 Though the minister couldn’t be contacted, medical education director OP Shringare admitted that the process was delayed for two years after the first tender was floated in January 2016. He said that the government wanted to grant chance for all parties to participate and, therefore, the two earlier tenders were cancelled. 
 
 “In the first tender, only 12 players participated, and then some NGOs requested us to offer them the chance. Among those 12, a majority didn’t have any past experience of running even a single pharmacy store. We wanted to offer a level-playing field to all players, so that the best of them could be selected.”
 
 The director also denied that poor patients were not getting cheap medicines stating that current shops across GMCHs also sell generic medicines. He blamed the city-based NGOs for forcing DMER to float a third tender.
 
 “They’ve an objection to participation of Macchimar Sanghatna which had requested to take part in the tender process. They must understand that it’s not easy for the government to finalize such tenders without taking into consideration all factors. Now, we’ve almost finalized third tender which would be opened within a week.”
 
 PPWS secretary Nitin   claimed that they were the first to prepare a report detailing about the Jan Aushadhi project and present it to  , then medical education minister, in June 2015. After the latter’s instructions, the DMER published a tender notice on January 8, 2016, inviting tenders for 27 such stores across all GMCH.
 
 However, Mahajan replaced Tawde at that time, and kept the tender pending for three months before cancelling it. The second tender was published on March 20, 2017, but it was again cancelled for reasons not known. The third one was floated on October 20 which is yet to be finalized.
 
 “The tenders are cancelled just to accommodate some favourite NGOs of the politicians even after the last date. The people from below poverty line (BPL) are made to suffer as they are forced to purchase costly medicines from the normal chemists shops, in absence of Jan Aushadhi stores,” Gothey said.
 
 
