JAIPUR:   (19), of Maharani Gayatri Devi Girls' School's decision of dropping a year to prepare for   exam yielded positive results. She secured AIR-10 in Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) 2018 locking a seat in one of the best law colleges of the country at National Law School of Indian University (NLSIU), Bangalore. 

 
 A national-level   cadet, Agarwal cleared the exam in the second attempt, says, "I took coaching classes last year in class XII. I, however, didn't focus on the both the exams together so in the last I gave preference to my class XII exam and couldn't get through my first attempt". She said, "It was a stressful journey as I had dropped a year and I was under pressure to prove myself. So, I used to study for extremely long hours mostly at night and I had nothing else to focus on, I went for my tuitions and back home."
 
 Agarwal who scored a 96.2% in her 12th Board Examination in 2017 said, "I could have taken admission in any good college. But my parents supported me and encouraged to achieve my dream and not worry about dropping a year." She came 28th in All Indian Law Entrance Test (AILET) which is yet another uphill battle for law aspirants. "It feels great that I already had admission offer from NLU Delhi. But my priority is NLU Bangalore," said Agarwal.
 
 Explaining the benefits of staying away from the social media she said, "From the first day itself I uninstalled all my social media applications and deactivated my Facebook account as well. I am a complete social media enthusiast, so this was my major distractions as in our age who doesn't like to surf new feeds of all social media accounts" said Agarwal.
 
 She has won several medals on field of shooting by participating in rifle shooting at International Practical Shooting Confederation (IPSC) level and has also been the   (NCC) president in her school representing Jaipur at national level Thal Sainik Camp (TSC). "I always seek to do something different and extraordinary, be it in academics or in co-curricular activities. I like to set challenging tasks for myself and accomplish them with full determination" said Agarwal proudly. 
 
