CHANDIGARH: With University Grants Commission (UGC) giving full autonomy to Panjab University (PU), this has raised a pertinent question as to whether this autonomy is absolute or not? Some in the university are arguing that since it has been put in category –II, the university will still have to formulate a committee, that will again have to report to   and hence, how does this make the autonomy absolute? Others are of the opinion that the new status won’t make any difference as such since PU has already been enjoying this kind of freedom. 

 “They have put us in category II. That itself is a little humiliating. GNDU and  , from where students prefer come to our University are in category I. For the institutions in category II, you will have to have a committee and then send it off to UGC for approval. We are above the universities, which are in category-I, in the Times Higher Education (THE) rankings, but the UGC seems to be giving us some kind of step-motherly behaviour,” said Shelly Walia, professor emeritus at the department of English & cultural studies, PU and senate member.
 
 With a lot of debate going on in the university on this autonomy, people are questioning whether this autonomy holds any importance or this is just hogwash. Former dean university instructions Prof A K Bhandari said the university already had this kind of autonomy in principal. “However, the paperwork would be less now. We have this notional advantage now,” he said. When asked whether being put into category-II is correct or not, he said it is based on the   score and the new assessment has not been carried out yet. The UGC had a blanket formula of the NAAC score.
 
 On how this autonomy will affect the functioning of PU, Walia said, “It will affect the functioning and we can have our own curriculum. We don’t have to go by national curriculum. We can take decisions regarding where we are going to spend money, collaboration with other universities etc.”
 
 However, internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) director M Rajivlochan said that the financial control over expenditure should be liberated. “We can hire foreign faculty, so even if you do that, you will have to seek required permit from the ministry of external affairs. If you have to spend the public money, you will have to follow the general financial rules. It is the financial control over expenditure which has to be liberated. There should be freedom to spend the money,” he added. 
 
 A welcome step: VC
 
 Panjab University vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover said UGC giving them this autonomy is a welcome step and an opportunity to explore collaborations with foreign universities and introduce new courses. 
 
 
