NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court’s order to set up an SIT to re-examine 186 anti-Sikh riot cases has revived the politics around the issue. While BJP attacked Congress for doing a “cover-up investigation”, AAP alleged that BJP and Congress were “hand in gloves” and the special investigation team (SIT) formed by the BJP government at the Centre was, in fact, a way to give a clean chit to Congress.

 Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said Congress had accused his party of vendetta politics when the central government had formed the SIT. Welcoming the SC order, Tiwari said, “It establishes the fact that a cover-up investigation was carried out into the   riots by the then Congress government. With 186 cases to be reopened — which were closed intentionally without investigation — Congress can’t say it is   vendetta.”
 
 Saurabh Bharadwaj, Delhi AAP’s chief spokesperson, said the SIT formed by the Modi government was a “clean chit machine” to bail out Congress leaders from the cases. “The SC has exposed the Modi government’s real motive behind forming the SIT. The so-called SIT was a clean chit machine for Congress and its leaders about their role in killing innocents Sikhs,” he said.
 
 Claiming that Congress and BJP are hand in gloves, the AAP leader said, “Recently, CBI failed to submit evidence in the multi-crore 2G scam, leading to acquittal of all accused.” 
 
 He said the Modi government had tried to stop the AAP government from acting against Congress leaders. “Afraid of the fact that the AAP government will form a SIT in Delhi, the Modi government constituted the SIT just one day before   took oath as the CM.” 
 
 Rubbishing the charge, Tiwari said, “AAP is accusing us when they are the B-team of Congress. It is they who had formed the government with Congress.”
 
 Staying away from the politics surrounding the issue, Delhi Congress chief   said, “We welcome any investigation by the SC-monitored committee into the matter. If anyone is found guilty, he/she should be punished.” 
 
 While the Sikh community, which has been fighting for justice for the past 34 years, welcomed the move, Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) demanded that the ambit of investigation should be expanded. Manjit Singh GK, president of DSGMC, said, “The ambit of investigation should be expanded to bring under scrutiny the role of CBI and Delhi Police officials who may have played a role in hampering and delaying the probe. The investigation should be carried out in a time-bound manner.” 
 
 
