CHANDIGARH: The bill for regularization of unauthorized colonies, plots and buildings will be presented in the budget session of   following a nod from the council of ministers on Monday.

 As per the plan, unauthorized colonies developed up to March 19 would be regularized and the policy would be open for one year from the date of notification. Developers who could not apply under previous policies can also apply under this policy for regularization of their colonies. There are at present around 7,000  , of which 5,000 were located outside limits of municipal corporations.
 
 ‘The Punjab Laws (special provisions for regularization of unauthorized colony) bill, 2018’ seeks to provide basic civic amenities like water supply, sewerage, electricity and road connectivity to people living in unauthorized colonies. It will be followed by a detailed policy for regularization of these colonies and plots/buildings across the state.
 
 No registration of the illegal colonies would be allowed and charges have been fixed for regularization of colonies. The money collected would be used for providing   there. Payment of charges would be in instalments within a period of one year.
 
 Besides providing basic amenities to the residents of these colonies, the move was aimed at bringing all the unplanned areas into the planning framework, said a state government spokesperson. It would give an opportunity to those colonizers/residents who had failed to apply for either getting their unauthorized colonies regularized or bringing unauthorized plots/buildings falling in the authorized colonies compounded under previous policies.
 
 Any developer applying for regularization of his colony shall have a residents’ welfare association (RWA) in place. The   can also submit an application for regularization of the colony to the concerned authority under the provisions of the proposed bill.
 
 Further, to streamline the regularization process, unauthorized colonies have been categorized as per the built up area (up to 25%, 25% to 50%, more than 50% area), with a special provision for exceptional colony having more than 75% built up area.
 
 Last week, the cabinet subcommittee of group of ministers had finalized the draft policy for unauthorized colonies. This has now been approved by the cabinet.
 
 
