JAIPUR: To increase the life span of 18-year -old Bais Godam railway over bridge ( ), situated on an arterial route, the   ( ) has taken up the maintenance work and repair work which is expected to be completed by May 31.

 Under this bridge rehabilitation process, the JDA will be removing dead weight and replacing bearings and expansion joints of the RoB.
 
 According to the JDA engineers, 4,500 tonnes of dead weight would be removed that was causing damage to the structure. In the past 18 years, RoB overlay thickness of bituminous surface has increased to 250 mm, which is four times greater than required. The ideal thickness should be between 50 mm and 65 mm. “The dead weight of the bridge is being removed by milling the surface. We have engaged milling machines in this process and eight to 10 inches of excess thickness of bituminous layer is being removed. Nearly 4,500 tonnes of dead weight would be removed that will provide respite to the structure,” said VS  , additional chief engineer, JDA.
 
 Following the recommendation of the Rajasthan State Road Development and Construction Corporation that constructed the bridge in the year 2000, the JDA initiated the work after life of elastomeric bearings and the ‘angle and plate’ expansion joints was exhausted.
 
 Sunda said, “The cover plates of the expansion joints, in due course, got eroded and displaced. The joints that were supporting flexible movement got filled with bituminous material. As a result, it choked the movements in the bridge and caused stress in the girders and slabs,”
 
 Explaining the necessity of bearings and expansion joints an engineer informed, a bridge is supported by a pile foundation and further piers are raised over the foundation. This sub-structure part supports the girders and slab (super-structure) of the bridge over which the traffic flows. There is an interface between the sub structure and the super structure, where bearings are fixed. Further a bridge comprises of several spans and each span rests on two piers. “A pre-stressed concrete bridge when experience heavy moving traffic undergoes number of movements. These movements are part of the working mechanism and the engineers provide bearings and expansion joints to facilitate these movements.”The JDA would take up replacement of joint work from May 10. “The work of milling and relaying has been done on one side of the RoB . The activity on the other side is ongoing and expected to be completed by May 9.” 
 
 
