TRICHY: For over fifteen years, she lived in the controversial Mose Ministries children’s home in   along with 88 other girls, but on Friday she was reunited with her family in   after the child welfare committee (CWC) in Trichy handed her over to her biological parents. 

 “The girl expressed her willingness to join her parents who had approached the committee seeking the reunion of their daughter. Since her DNA had already matched theirs, the committee handed over the girl to them,” chairperson of CWC, Trichy, S Indiragandhi told TOI on Tuesday. As mandated by the CWC, the parents produced the girl before the committee on Monday to show that she was happy with her parents. Last week, the couple, hailing from a village near Usilampatti, saw their 18-year-old daughter back at their home after spending her entire childhood at the children’s home. She was one of their four children who allegedly had to be given away to the children’s home in financially trying circumstances. 
 
 While it was a crucial development in the Mose Ministries controversy, the handover of the girl to the parents did not go down well with the district social welfare office in Trichy. The office questioned the legality of the action of the CWC saying that she was one of the 89 girls in the custody of the department following the order of the Madurai bench of Madras high court. However, CWC justified the handover mentioning the order dated November 30, 2016 of the Madurai bench which ordered to keep seven minor girls among the 89 girls at Nagammai children home in Trichy. The order was issued three months later in February 2017 when five girls turned major. Only two girls are kept at the home now and they have also turned major over the years. 
 
 “When the court had ordered to keep minor girls at a separate home in Trichy, CWC has the responsibility of ensuring care and protection for the minor girls. So, we have the authority to hand over the girl to the parents if both of them wish,” said Indiragandhi. Director of the NGO ChangeIndia, A Narayanan, who took up the Mose Ministries case to the court in 2015, expressed happiness over the reunion. “Two years have passed after the DNA of the girls matched with their parents. Now, the reunion of one girl is good news. The DSWO and CWC have to settle the differences themselves,”   said. Sources said that the matter was brought to the notice of Trichy district collector K Rajamani.
 
 Mose Ministries children’s home has been embroiled in a controversy after an inspection by the child welfare committee in 2015 brought to light the functioning of the unregistered home with 89 girl children since 1994. The home should have been registered under Juvenile Justice Act, 1986 or under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 (Central Act 56 of 2000). The home management claimed that it had saved the girls from female infanticide which was prevalent in Usilampatti area.
 
 
