MADURAI: Trade and industry in Madurai have hailed the thrust on industrial growth in the state budget but raised doubts as to how far it would materialise considering the mounting debt of the state government.

  Chamber of Commerce and Industry appreciated the decision to develop an additional land bank of 9,030 acres and the special focus to be given to the Chennai – Kanniyakumari and Madurai –   industrial corridors. It said that they would activate development especially in the industrially-backward southern districts.
 
 Industrial growth should be evenly spread throughout the state. People in the region entertained high hopes that the government would attract substantial investments for southern Tamil Nadu at the second Global Investors Meet to be held in January 2019. The proposed food park for food processing industry on 500 acres in Theni / Dindigul /   districts was a welcoming decision, Tamil Nadu Foodgrains Merchants Association observed, but expressed its dismay at the neglect of Madurai in the project. Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (Maditissia) welcomed the decision of state government to increase the subsidy to MSMEs from Rs 1,600 crore to Rs 2,000 crores. The association appealed to the government to deploy an IAS cadre officer to steer the works on industrial corridors along Chennai – Kanyakumari and Madurai – Tuticorin.
 
 Confederation of Indian Industries, Madurai zone also lauded the budget for its increased focus on southern districts. It said that the announcement of Rs 1,400 crore for the   and Rs 1,074 crores for Swachh Bharat Mission were welcome. However, the trade and industrial forums expressed disappointment at not being considered for a metro rail project for which Coimbatore had been allotted funds.
 
 The forums also observed that the state government was facing monumental debt crisis with all-round debt expected to rise to Rs 3,55,845 crore by the end of next financial year. In this backdrop, how would such allocations be met with a deficit budget to the tune of Rs 44,841 crore, they wondered.
 
 
