Chennai: The 9th Century witnessed the Cholas establish a powerful kingdom in today’s Thanjavur, which eventually stretched across the southern parts of India and the neighboring islands. Built during the the 11th and 12th century AD, the three living Chola temples –Brihadeshwara temple in Thanjavur, Brihadeeshwarar temple in Gangaikonda Cholapuram and Airavatesvara temple in Darasuram - stand testimony to the power and architectural marvel of the Chola dynasty.

 The architectural grandeur apart, the Cholas established temples across the region with beautiful bronze sculptures. Inscriptions on the walls of several Chola temples record the gifts of bronze images as utsavamurti (processional image). However, the absence of those images in almost all those temples has puzzled historians. What happened to them?
 
 Job Thomas, professor-emeritus of the Davidson College in USA’s North Carolina, on Wednesday explained on what could have happened to those bronzes. Apparently, many believe that the destruction of temples and artifacts began with the arrival of Malik Kafur, a slave-general sent to the south by the Delhi sultanate Alauddin Khalji to subdue the kings in the region. Of course, Malik Kafur must have demolished temples and artefacts but that’s not the only reason behind the disappearance of the artistically-rich Chola bronzes from the temples, said Job Thomas. “There are many other social and cultural reasons behind the disappearance of these bronzes,” he said. 
 
 “The Ryotwari system introduced by the British to collect revenues from the farmers in 1820 created hardships to many who solely depended on agriculture. A mass migration followed. The villagers left for South Africa, Ceylon, Malaysia, Fiji and West Indies. They must have taken the bronzes with them to these countries,” said Job Thomas, who was speaking on “Chola Bronzes after Cholas" at the Roja Muthiah Research Library.
 
 The talk explored possible explanations for the disappearance of the bronzes from the temples of Tamil Nadu. Another reason, according to Job, was the disconnect. “Brahmin hierarchy was prevalent in the region. Only the elite were allowed to visit the temples and see the bronzes. This led to a kind of disconnect. The poor were not aware of the artistic value associated with these bronzes. I think this also contributed to the disappearance,” said Job, who earned his doctorate at the University of Michigan on "Paintings in Tamil Nadu during the Vijayanagar period" under the guidance of scholars Walter Spink and Thomas Trautmann.
 
 There was also a period of instability after the British left India. Many bronzes were stolen and taken to foreign countries. “The Chola bronzes are exhibited in many popular museums in the world today. We also have a wonderful collection in the government museum in Chennai. Even though we lost many great bronzes, what we are having now are the best. But our people dont know how to display them. That’s the tragedy,” he said. EOM
 
 
