NEW DELHI: Even as they have contrary views on the amendments proposed in the master plan, both resident welfare associations (RWAs) and traders associations want the   ( ) to provide clarity on the norms so that a people of Delhi don’t have to face a similar situation again. 

 On day two of the public hearing at DDA headquarters on Saturday, several RWAs and traders’ associations presented their views before the DDA’s board of inquiry. Lalit Kapoor, a professor at Delhi University and a resident of Karol Bagh, said, “There are grey areas in the master plan. There is a need to clearly spell out what is allowed and not allowed in an area.” 
 
 He cited the problems faced by residents in his locality. “In Karol Bagh, so many small shops have come up in a single building. Is it allowed? This is creating lots of problems for the residents. There is massive traffic jam in the area throughout the day. The   should be clear on development control norms.”   members opposed the proposed amendment to increase the floor area ratio (FAR) of shop-cum-residence complexes. 
 
 RWA of N-block in GK-I strongly opposed the move. Parking was one of the main problems cited by the RWAs. Raja Puri, president of the RWA said, “The shop-cum-residences were so designed that the shops were not facing the residential area. The entry to the first floor, which was for residential use, was from the back side. But due to commercial activity on first and second floors, the back lane has become congested. There is parking problem, noise pollution and it affects the residential character of the colony.” 
 
 Sarabjit Roy, national convenor of India Against Corruption and a resident of Defence Colony, said, “They should frame rules to regulate misuse”. Traders want DDA to come up with a concrete plan to address the problem once and for all. “In 2006, a similar exercise was undertaken to stop sealing and demolitions in the city. Please do something that traders don’t have to face this situation again. Make a law which ensures that there can be no illegal activity,” said OP Jain, member of Delhi Vyapar Mahasangh. Many traders said that they have no clarity on how to calculate additional FAR in colonies where civic bodies don’t even approve building plans
 
 
