Jaipur: The illegal firearms continue to pour into the state from neighbouring Madhya Pradesh; the special operations group ( ) arrested an illegal arms trader from Kota and seized eight high quality pistols and ammunition from him on Sunday.

 The SOG has identified the accused as one Mohan Singh, a resident of Dhar in Madhya Pradesh. The SOG sleuths said that the weapon are of very high quality. “One of our sub-inspector had learned about illegal arms being smuggled into Kota. We developed the intelligence, following which Singh was arrested, an official said, adding that it’s a matter of concern that firearms are easily finding their way into the state.
 
 The official said that in past one year alone, they have seized illegal 64 firearms from Bharatpur, Karauli, Sawi Madhopur, Chittorgarh , Kota and arrested 28 arms traders. “Most of these illegal arms were being manufactured in Madhya Pradesh and supplied into the city. In most of these cases, the number of guns outnumbered cartridges. Which indicates high demand for guns,” the official said.
 
 The SOG officials said that they have been  . “It is troubling of course that there is a   in the state. We have to locate customers who drive up the demand,” the official said.
 
 Rajasthan police suspects that the country-made high quality pistols have become a new rage among newbie smugglers in western Rajasthan who have thrived post   on the sale of poopy husk in the state in 2016. Cops suspect there buyers could have been drug-peddlers and criminals who needed guns for smuggling.
 
 While the SOG teams are still zeroing in on the buyers who purchase guns from these MP based gangs, the officials, however, claimed many smugglers had cropped up in the wake of poppy husk ban. "There are drug peddlers and criminals in the western Rajasthan who are willing to purchase firearms to shore up their perception of a lethal organised gang," said an official, adding that Dhar, Dewas and Ratlam district in Madhya Pradesh have major illegal weapons hubs.
 
 “These are very high -quality pistols which are capable of incessant firing without any glitch. If you were to hold this gun next to an expensive foreign-gun, you may not be able to distinguish the difference between the two," said the official.
 
 
