MANGALURU: The chaos at the district’s only   office in   will come to an end soon. The RTO Mangaluru will offer its   service  . The   4 service, which is active in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mandya and Ramnagar, will soon be functional in   district too.

 However, this is soon going to change, as the RTO Mangaluru has decided to go online. The service Sarathi 4, which is active is Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mandya and Ramnagar, will soon be functional in Dakshina Kannada too.
 
 G S Hegde, deputy commissioner of transport, and in-charge senior RTO, told TOI that the office has initiated measures to switch over to the virtual space, to make things much more convenient and simpler for the public. “The candidate seeking a licence can henceforth get it within a few days, by just applying online. The person has to visit the RTO office only once for the learner’s licence, while he has to visit the driving test track once, to give the test physically for the driving licence. The rest will be taken care of by the staff and officials at the RTO over the internet,” he said.
 
 The user needs to log on to the official website of the transport department and then select the RTO centre Mangaluru, under the list of RTOs mentioned in the portal. Once the user clicks on the RTO centre, he/she will be directed to the website of the ministry of road transport and highways (parivahan). The portal will then ask the individual to fill applicant details, upload necessary documents, photo and signature. The portal will immediately display the time and date on which the candidate has to appear before the officials for the learner’s licence. Once finalized, the candidate is guided to make the payment of fee.
 
 Hedge said the forms thus filled by the candidate will be taken up in bulk by the assistant RTO for processing, and then granted approval. The applications thus approved will be passed on to the case worker level. The candidate will then get a message stating that the learner’s licence has been approved. The candidate can take a printout of the learner’s licence, which will serve as the official document, making the person eligible to drive the vehicle on the road. The learner’s licence is valid for six months.
 
 “The same procedure will be followed for driving licences as well,” Hegde said.
 
 To ensure that the RTO goes online at the earliest, Hegde said he will take up the matter during the meeting of the district Road Safety Committee to be convened on February 5.
 
 The chaos at the district’s only RTO office now, will further be reduced, as Bantwal is likely to get an RTO office soon.
 
 
