LUDHIANA: You can now click and report an unsafe place in the city, share pictures or videos of suspicious things, find nearest police station with contact numbers of cops and send your location to family and police during an emergency. The Ludhiana police on Wednesday launched a mobile application for android users called ‘Shakti’. The police have also started holding awareness seminars for school and college students, especially girls.

 The key features of this mobile application include SOS, report unsafe, where am I, click and mail and police stations’ details.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (special branch)   said, “We are covering various aspects with one mobile application. The application will primarily help girls. With one click, the app will send SMS with location to the selected contacts and to the police control room.”
 
 It will also enable the police get information about unsafe places in the city. “The residents can report about unsafe places by pressing the option on the app. It will ask reasons for finding that particular place unsafe and these can be no lights during late evening hours on a stretch and suspicious people, among others. The police will establish checkpoints and increase patrolling according to the information received,” he added.
 
 The app will provide an option to share pictures or videos related to any crime or violation in the city. The pictures will reach police control room and will be investigated. Lamba said the police would keep sending notifications of public interest to the application users.
 
 He said, “The police have already organized awareness seminars on the application in about 30 government schools. Now, the colleges will be covered. The main aim is to avoid crime against women and children. Besides, the application will become an easy platform for residents to approach the police.”
 
 The option ‘where am I’ will provide information on nearest police station along with the contact numbers of cops, and people can get in touch with them to share information.
 
 The app would soon be available for IOS platform, too, added Lamba.
 
 
