Ludhiana: Even though the expelled SAD leader spent the day behind bars on Thursday after being arrested a day earlier in a year-old theft case, his relatives and supporters gave voice to his campaign hoping to garner some last-minute support for him.

  Harpreet Singh Bedi, who is contesting as an independent candidate from ward number 72, was arrested on Wednesday evening by Sarabha Nagar police.
 
 On Thursday (the last day of campaigning), his supporters took out a motor car rally in his area with huge pomp and show in his absence. A close associate of Bedi on the condition of anonymity said, “We were confident that he would be granted bail on Thursday. But as this didn’t happen, we decided to conduct the rally without him on the last day of campaigning.”
 
 Bedi was not granted bail till the filing of the report and it is uncertain whether he will get bail before the elections scheduled for February 24 or not.
 
 Bedi, a former councillor who was initially allotted SAD ticket in MC elections, has to his credit another unusual feat. Despite the fact he is contesting elections as an independent, he has been allowed to use the SAD’s official symbol of takri (traditional weighing scale) even after he was expelled from the party. He even fielded his wife Veeran Bedi from ward number 73 against BJP’s official candidate.
 
 This caused a lot of embarrassment for the SAD as it failed to act on time. The party lodged a complaint with the district electoral officer for using images of SAD leaders for his poll campaign even after being expelled from the party.
 
 “This is a well-planned conspiracy of both Congress and as well as SAD against Harpreet Bedi. Why police took a year to name him in the FIR and arrest him if there was any evidence against him. But their plan has backfired and we are getting immense public support. Now, it seems that we will win both the ward number 72 and 73 with highest margins in entire MC elections. During our road show in both wards, there were close to 400 cars of our supporters. We are confident that regardless of the atrocities and harassment by our rivals, we will get justice and Bedi will be granted bail and case against him will be cancelled,” said Inderjeet Singh, family member of Harpreet Singh Bedi.
 
 
