CHANDIGARH: In the times of gaurakshak activism,   government has come with a five-year plan for ridding the state's roads of stray cattle (bulls): through gender selection. The government has tied up with a US-based agency for the technology which would ensure that the cows inseminated with 'sexed semen' only give birth to young female calves. In   and  , this technology is being used to boost milk yield by increasing the population of female calves. The 'sexed semen', having 90%-plus sperms carrying X-chromosome, produces only female offspring. 

 Sources confirmed to TOI that the government has made special provision for this project in its budget, scheduled to be presented on Friday.
 
 Animal husbandry and dairying minister   said that at one time farmers used to celebrate the birth of male calves as they were essential for farming, but mechanization has made the bulls redundant, and the farmers are turning them out on the roads. "Our department would soon introduce the technique of sex-selection, leading to the birth of only female calves. We have set a target of five years to free the state of   (bulls) ...,"   explained. 
 
 Haryana may announce subsidy to make technology affordable
 
 Stray bulls are a major problem in Haryana, especially after the implementation of Haryana Gauvansh Sanrakshan and Gausamvardhan Act, 2015, which provides for stringent punishment for cow slaughter, going up to even 10 years’ imprisonment. The minister said local bodies run 400 gaushalas (cow-shelters) and shelter homes for around 3.5 lakh animals, and are hopeful that with the new technique would mean bull-free roads.
 
 Sources in the state’s animal husbandry and dairying department said that the state government may announce a subsidy to make the technology affordable. In this technique, the sperm is sorted for selection of gender and used for artificial insemination of the cows.
 
 Senior officers of the department told TOI that the US technology would initially be used only on exotic breeds, including Jersey and Holstein Friesian. “Later on it would be applied to indigenous breeds like Sahiwal, Gir and other breeds. A detailed plan would be released in the budget,” the senior officer said. The state authorities have been asking its employees to contribute funds for maintenance of Nandishalas (bull-sheds) in various districts.
 
 
