LUDHIANA: The second phase of the Live Green campaign, being organised by The Times of India in association with the Income Tax department, Ludhiana, was unveiled at I-T office in   on Friday evening. An array of distinguished guests, including prominent businessmen, high-ranking officials of the I-T department, principals of schools and colleges, and people from all walks of life took part in the event, which was presided over by chief commissioner of income tax  .

 Environmentalist Padma Shri Balbir Singh Seechewal, Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib president   and chief judicial magistrate (Ludhiana)   were the guests of honour. During the event, several new stakeholders expressed interest to join the income tax department’s initiative to grow vertical gardens in their buildings, or contribute towards environment conservation. A clutch of stakeholders and people who have made vertical gardens on their premises or contributed towards the campaign were awarded.
 
 Jha said: “This is another milestone in environment and tax awareness, with the green plastic initiative witnessing a congregation of some of the most committed and respected people. Their presence has lent new energy to the ‘Swachh Bharat, Swachh Dhan’ initiative of the income tax department.  , who has achieved the miracle of cleaning 160km of a highly polluted river in Punjab and inspired millions, Pritpal Singh, head granthi of Dukh Niwaran Sahib Gurdwara who took the initiative of converting a wall outside the shrine into a vertical garden, and others have lent such energy to the movement that a large number of leading personalities and industrialists of the city have come forward to clean up the environment by establishing vertical gardens not just in their establishments, but also in schools and other institutions.”
 
 Jha added: “We are delighted with the response this campaign has received from tax-payers, schools, colleges and other institutions. An institution dedicated to rehabilitating the physically disabled has also taken up the initiative of cleaning up the polluted air that we all breathe. So far, we have planted 30,000 little ‘eco-systems’ in plastic bottles, and the numbers are growing daily.”
 
 Congratulating the income tax department for their green efforts and lauding the role of The Times of India in taking the campaign to the masses, Baba Seechewal said: “This is a brilliant initiative, as it helps tackle environment pollution by spreading green cover in the smallest available space. The use of discarded plastic bottles for growing plants is appreciable. The income tax department and corporate firms must join hands and kick off more such green drives to help improve the quality of life by keeping the surroundings clean and green.”
 
 
