RANCHI:   and   both managed to win one seat each in the biennial elections to the council of states, results of which were declared after a midnight drama and objections filed by both BJP and Congress with the election commission of India.

 BJP candidate   managed to get the minimum required the support of 27 MLAs and he won comfortably but the election process for the second seat remained mired in controversy till late in the night. Objections and counter objections were filed by both BJP and UPA with the election commission demanding invalidation of votes.
 
 Pradeep Sonthalia of BJP and former   MP   of Congress locked horns for the second seat. By afternoon authorised polling agent of JVM (P) Bandhu Tirkey raised an objection to one of his party MLA Prakash Ram’s voting process claiming that he did not follow the process of showing his vote to polling agent and demanded cancellation of his vote. 
 
 Tirkey shot off a letter to the returning officer, chief electoral officer of Jharkhand and election commission of India. His claims were ruled out by the BJP which asserted that an MLA’s vote cannot be cancelled just because he has not polled according to the guidelines of the coalition. “There are CCTV and video footages available to prove that the MLA had shown his ballot paper to his polling agent,” said minister CP Singh.
 
 An irked opposition appealed to the Election Commission of India following which after an initial stay on counting process the commission later allowed counting to begin but the stay on the declaration of results continued till late night.
 
 Initially, Congress candidate Dhiraj Sahu admitted defeat saying that he secured 26 votes and two of the votes were declared invalid but moments later Congress supporters claimed that their candidate has won the election with a fractional margin. The assembly campus buzzed with slogans in favour of Sonthalia first and then in support of Sahu.
 
 BJP admitted that their candidate got 25 votes of first preference and three votes of second preference taking his vote percentage share to 25.99. State urban development minister CP Singh said: “Sahu has got 26 votes of first preference and accordingly he has touched the finishing line with a narrow margin of 0.1% vote share.”
 
 Late into the night, the results got a fresh twist again when both BJP and UPA registered objections with the ECI once again. BJP claimed that in one of the ballot papers there was an ink mark on NOTA demanding cancellation of the ballot whereas UPA claimed that the returning officer was being pressurised by the ruling party through unauthorised persons. 
 
 “We have video footages to prove that the returning officer was being made to speak on phone by some people who are not authorised to enter the room of the presiding officer,” said JMM spokesperson and MLA Kunal Shadangi. The leader of opposition Hemant Soren after participating in celebrations for the victory of Sahu in the election also blamed it on the government for using undue influence over the returning officer.
 
