KOCHI: There is growing, substantial evidence that climate change has affected fish and other marine population over the decades. A national study on the vulnerability of Indian fish stock due to climate change showed that fishes on the east coast were more vulnerable (72%) than those on the west coast (30-33%).

 A team of scientists at   ( ) undertook the study in four coastal zones after assessing pan-Indian historical marine data and taking into account a host of parameters such as temperatures, fish data, life history, reproductive capacity, food availability and different environmental indicators.
 
 The study showed that changes in ocean currents, water column mixing (that could alter larval dispersal) and food availability were likely to impact fishery resources in the next few decades. The changes in primary productivity – which influences the abundance of several species – can lead to a redistribution of fish stock, it said.
 
 
  
 
 The study classified the vulnerability as high, medium and low for 68 species in India. Around 69% of the total species were found to be highly vulnerable. Along the east coast, 72% of the species studied were found to be highly vulnerable in northeast zone, while it was 77% in southeast zone. In southwest and northwest zones on the opposite coast, it was 30% and 33% respectively. Almost 83% of the pelagic (upper layer of ocean) fishes studied were highly vulnerable, followed by demersal (closer to the sea floor) fishes (66%), molluscs (60%) and crustaceans (53%).
 
 Prawns and catfish were assessed as highly vulnerable in southwest, southeast and northeast zones.   pomfret was assessed as highly vulnerable in the southwest, southeast and northeast zones. One of the major changes in Indian waters was the variation of sea surface temperature (SST) from 1976 to 2015. SST increased by 0.602°C along northeast India, by 0.597°C along northwest India, by 0.690°C along southeast India and by 0.819°C along southwest India. However, the rate of change was highest in northwest India (0.0156°C/ annum) followed by southwest India (0.0132°C/annum), indicating greater climate change impact along the west coast.
 
 Following this report, scientists are now all set to develop a new, computerized model to estimate the state of oceanic marine resources in the coming decades. The model, similar to the IMD’s climate model but would factor in the above mentioned parameters.
 
 This will help in estimating species availability and its vulnerability to changes in climate and environment. “Some countries have developed models, but we don’t have a successful model. We hope to run the model (akin to  ) so that it can provide a strong base to evolve strategic management plans for highly-vulnerable stocks to counter the likely impacts of a changing climate in the long run,” said CMFRI’s head of demersal fisheries division PU Zacharia.
 
 Another study by   (CIFT) assessed the carbon emissions by different boats and fishing gear right from the production stage. “We have looked at carbon emission involved in the production of steel and fibreglass used for making boats as well as polyethylene used for making fishing gear. A detailed assessment was done on the use of diesel, the main fuel for boats,” said  , head, fisheries technology division,  .
 
