A few days ago, we had reported about Shaheer Sheikh being roped in to play the hero in an intense love story. And now, we have been informed that he will be romancing  , who played the parallel lead in 'Tu Mera Hero''. Incidentally, Twinkle was finalised for a pivotal role in 'Ishqbaaaz', but she couldn’t take it up as she had to undergo an eye surgery around the same time. Twinkle’s character will be named Raina on the new show.

 
 
 
 
 
  
 After playing the lead couple on 'Ek Rishta Saajhedari Ka' ('ERSK'), during the shoot of which they fell in love, Shivya Pathania and Kinshuk Mahajan are all set to pair up again. This time around, they will be seen in an episode of 'Love On The Run'. Kinshuk says, “I absolutely missed working with her; working together is just like the fun-filled 'ERSK' days.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Neha Marda, who was all set to make a comeback with Rashmi Sharma’s 'Muskaan', will have to wait. The actress was almost finalised to play the protagonist, a single mother. However, the deal fell through as the two 
 parties couldn’t arrive at a consensus on the budget and contract. We now hear that Bengali actress Arina Dey has been roped in for the part.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Filmmaker Tigmanshu Dhulia is all set to join the cast of the long-running show 'CID', which will complete 20 years this weekend. An episode about loyalty and friendship of the cops will be weaved into the storyline. That’s not all; Janvi Chheda, who played CID officer Shreya, will also make a comeback on the show. She had quit the show a year ago after she got pregnant. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 TV show 'Piyaa Albela' is all set to take a short time-leap of six months and with that, Akshay Mhatre, who plays Naren, will turn politician. The actor says , “As a politician, I will be exploring a new facet of Naren, which will be more powerful and cold-blooded. I have also watched a couple of Hollywood shows like House Of Cards and The Blacklist to prepare for the role.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Comedy TV series 'Aadat Sey Majboor', which features Rishab Chadha, Sana Maqbool Khan, Anuj Pandit and Anant Mahadevan, will wrap up on February 26. The decision has been taken because the show, which was launched in October, couldn’t generate sustainable ratings.
 
 
 
