NEW DELHI: In his typical style,   completed the big run chase with a massive six as   beat   by five wickets to regain the top spot in the Indian Premier League standings on Wednesday. CSK chased down the 206-run target with two balls to spare at the M   in Bengaluru. 

 
 
 
 
 Dhoni remained unconquered on 70 off 34 balls, which included seven sixes and a solitary four, to fashion CSK's fifth victory from six games in the season. Dhoni added a match-winning 101 off 54 balls with   (82) for the fifth wicket. And with the fourth defeat in six matches, hosts RCB remained at sixth in the leaderboard.
 
 
 
 
 CSK needed 16 off final over in the high-scoring thriller, but Dwayne Bravo made it five off three balls after hitting Corey Anderson for a four and a six in the first two balls and Dhoni took just one ball to take his team home. 
 
 Chasing the big target, CSK started on a wrong note as they lost in-form Shane Watson in the very first over to Pawan Negi. But Rayudu hit two sixes in two balls off Washington Sundar and took CSK to 24/1 in three overs.
 
 Rayudu along with Suresh Raina kept the scoring rate high by smacking a six and four boundaries in the next two overs as CSK reached 50/1 after five overs. Raina did not last long and was dismissed by Umesh Yadav in the sixth over. 
 
 Sam Billings (9) hit two fours in his short stay before Yuzvendra Chahal foxed him and was out stumped in the seventh over. Chahal then removed Ravindra Jadeja to reduce CSK to 74/4 in nine overs.
 
 Skipper Dhoni showed his intent immediately as he hit a six off Negi in the second ball he faced. Along with Rayudu, Dhoni revived the run chase as they took CSK over 100 mark in the 12th over. The visitors closed down the gap in the 14th over as Dhoni smacked Negi for back-to-back sixes and Rayudu reached his fifty off 40 balls with a six in the same over.
 
 The duo kept hitting sixes regularly and took CSK to 151/4 in 16 overs. Dhoni then completed his fifty off 29 balls with a six off Anderson in the 18th over, but a mix-up three balls later ended Rayudu's brilliant innings. Umesh's direct hit sent Rayudu back, after the batsman scored 82 off 53 balls with the help of eight sixes and three fours.
 
 The equation at that stage was 30 off final two overs for CSK. After giving away just three singles in first four balls, Mohammed Siraj was hit for a six by Dhoni and all hell broke loose as the bowler bowled three consecutive wide balls to give away 14 in the over, leaving CSK to chase 16 off last over which the visitors did comfortably.
 
 Earlier,   and   struck blistering half centuries to propel RCB to 205/8. De Villiers smashed 68 off 30 balls, hitting eight sixes and two fours during his onslaught, while de Kock made 53 off 37 deliveries with the help of four sixes and a boundary.
 
 RCB's was a strange innings as it saw two wicket-maiden overs and a triple-wicket final over, which also fetched the home team 14 runs. The middle overs, though, were thoroughly dominated by the batsmen.
 
 Invited to bat, RCB were off to a brisk start but lost skipper   (18) to Shardul Thakur in the fifth over. 
 
 De Villiers and his compatriot de Kock destroyed the visiting team's bowling attack by playing shots all around the wicket with consummate ease.
 
 De Villiers smashed Thakur for three consecutive sixes to bring the home crowd to its feet, even as de Kock played the supporting role to perfection. One of de Villiers' sixes landed outside the stadium.
 
 However, Bravo brought some relief to the CSK camp when he had de Kock superbly caught and bowled with a slower ball in the 14th over. The end of a 103-run partnership triggered a collapse of sorts as de Villiers fell to Imran Tahir in the next over. Tahir made it two wickets in two balls as the spinner dismissed Corey Anderson too.
 
 From 138/1 at the start of 14th over, RCB slumped to 142/4 in 15 overs. A late charge from Mandeep (32 off 17 balls) and Sundar (13 off 4) took the hosts' score over 200-run mark in the end. 
 
 
 
 
