Tired with all the   in the City That Never Sleeps? Don’t just roll your eyes to it, instead take a vow, a vrat to do away with it. In a movement that is gaining ground in noisy Mumbai, citizens are being encouraged to undertake a ‘horn vrat’ to cut down the vehicular  . A cool rickshaw can be seen making the rounds across the city to spread the anti-noise message. 

 
 
  
  
 
  are likely to see a shiny auto-rickshaw fitted with 150 blow-horns at Marine Drive, Worli Sea Face or on the road near your own house, telling you to cease and desist with the honking. If a single symbol can stand for a cause, then that’s the case with this  , where the numerous ‘silent’ blow-horns are a metaphor for the multiple sources of noise. It also warns people against the trauma caused by noise pollution. Says   who is behind the movement, “The honking menace has reached an almost tipping point in Mumbai and it seems to have become an expression of our personality and mood. Mumbai is not called the noisiest city in India by the   (CPCB) for nothing! People seem to blare their horns for just no reason at all. For instance, when the cab or auto you’re seated in stops at a red signal, did you notice the number of times the driver honks even though he’s just waiting 
 his turn?”
 Adds  , Principal Secretary, Transport and Ports, Mumbai, “We started the campaign to end the honking menace in the city as today, there is a deafening silence around noise pollution, of which 70% is due to honking. Just imposing fines is not helping as people still do not realise why it’s wrong to even honk in the first place. Such campaigns thus play a role to drive home the message and bring about a change in attitudes.” 
 
 There is also a reason why they chose an auto to drive home the message visually. “Honking is inappropriately used here and not just with rickshaws, but all vehicles. But we started with rickshaws as these are completely unprotected — with no windows or doors,” adds Sumaira. For Ravnit Sharma, an e-commerce executive from Chandivali, it caused him to change his work route. “I’m so fed up of the honking that I had to take another longer route to avoid the blare. Can’t see another way out,” he rues.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The noise that emanates from an auto horn may last a few seconds, but the after-effects have a longer and more harmful effect. The accepted ambient sound levels for human habitation is below 55 decibels and honking creates sounds of 110 decibels and more. Mumbai alone registers over 70 db of ambient noise — this is much higher than the safe levels for human habitation. It is dangerous as it causes stress and anger leading to road rage. Says Sumaira, “I have spoken to auto drivers who say that even after they go home, they can hear the horn at night and can’t sleep. What does that say about safety levels?”
 
 Doctor Nitin Gupta, ENT Specialist, Mumbai, warns that incessant noise can cause early sensory neural hearing loss. “I have so many people who complain with headaches, irritability, insomnia and giddiness due to their road commute. Abnormal sound or tinnitus also affects people due to this. We must curb unnecessary blaring as much possible,” he says. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 After having kicked off at Gateway of India a few months ago, this February over 80 members of the Mumbai Rickshaw Men’s Union congregated at Bandra Kurla Complex to lend their voices to the campaign. Says auto union leader  , “We have conducted programmes at various RTOs. Horns are a hazard and so many of our members are suffering from hearing troubles due to it. We have seen taxi and auto drivers honk at signals to try and urge others to move ahead. Why do that at all? Honking is also often used by drivers as a gesture to call out to friends. We been requesting people to honk only in emergencies.” He also says the matter is not restricted to autos and cabs. “We also request authorities not to allow citizens to remove the jaali from the silencer from certain motorcyles. Youngsters often do this, but it causes noise and air pollution and it even reduces mileage. They must conduct an investigation into this, too,” he suggests. 
 
 
 Citizens, who can no longer bear the cacophony of continuous honking, are invited to join the campaign and take selfies with the rickshaw and post on Twitter and Facebook, to spread the message. While Sumaira says daily commuters can spread the word, Manoj calls for residents to take up the cause. “People can come together to declare their neighbourhoods as silence zones. Time we all all pledged to make our roads quieter and saner,” he says.
 
 
 
 Wadala in Mumbai, which has recorded the second highest noise levels at night in India, in 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Mumbai’s RTO has reportedly decided to crack down on honkers by suspending their driving licence for 15 days, along with imposing a hefty fine, and can even suspend the registration of their vehicles temporarily.
 
 
