KOLKATA:  , which he received during  , are still fresh but he wouldn’t shy away from attacking policemen or torching vehicles again if there is a repeat of what had happened just a day ago.

 
 “My neighbour, who was like my own brother, was killed in the accident and the cops were doing nothing. When we asked for an ambulance, they said since the boys were already dead, there was no need for one. When they saw others from our area reaching the spot, they quickly put the bodies in an ambulance and whisked them away. We couldn’t control our anger and attacked them,” said  , a resident of Noabhanga in Shantinagar.
 
 The first attack — on a traffic kiosk — was initiated by  , a local, and soon others followed. “We ran to the police for help but they were doing nothing. My uncle broke a glass at the kiosk,” said Kaushik Chandra, an HS student who lives nearby.
 
 Others who were part of the mob frenzy said they retaliated once police started to lathicharge them. “The cops were rampantly beating us. So we retaliated by throwing bricks and stones at them,” said Narayan Saha, a labourer at agrille factory in Sukanta Nagar.
 
 The locals stepped up the attack after cops thrashed the father and the brother of Biswajit, one of the accident victims. “Cops entered our home and started beating us. My father pleaded before the cops and told them one of the deceased was his son, but they abused us and threatened to shoot him,” said Biswajit’s brother Avijit.
 
 According to sources, the anger raging among the locals for some time was the reason behind the flare-up. The cops have started penalising the locals for driving without helmets, riding along wrong lanes and without valid vehicle papers. On Saturday, the vandalism had left officers of   traffic guard so terrified that none of them left their office at night even as a   team and   personnel stood guard. “We had information about a possible attack at night. Hence, there was a heavy police arrangement,” said a senior officer.
 
 
  
 
