HYDERABAD: Leaders and activists of the   Joint Action Committee (TJAC) led by its chairman M Kodandaram and the police are headed for a showdown on Saturday as   has decided to go ahead with its proposed ‘Aata Paata’ programme on the seventh anniversary of Million March on Tank Bund. TJAC is also being joined in the protest by CPI, New Democracy, Praja Front and other like-minded organisations.

 Although it is not official, police have kept Kodandaram under house arrest by deploying a large posse of cops around his   residence on Friday evening itself. The situation is not different at the houses of other important leaders who are planning to take part in the protest. Heavy police security is being thrown around Tank Bund.
 
 
 Earlier, the police had denied permission citing security reasons and said that as TJAC has called it a programme being organised with the “spirit of Million March that was held on March 10, 2011” which had shaken the united AP government then, police said they fear that violence may breakout as had happened seven years ago. There could be traffic jams causing immense problems to students for SSC and   exams.
 
 Kodandaram alleged that the police were arresting TJAC and other leaders and workers in all districts to ensure that the programme is not successful and demanded immediate release of all the arrested workers. “The TRS government cannot suppress the voice of the people of Telangana by using police force,” he said.
 
 Later during the day, TJAC official spokesperson G   said that their programme in connection with the Million March anniversary will be held despite there being no police permission. “We are not going to stop just because permission has been denied. If the police want to arrest us, they can do it but our decision is to go ahead with the programme,” he said.
 
 Stating that the TRS government should be actually organising the anniversary of Million March in a grand way as this event was one of milestones of the Telangana statehood agitation, Venkat Reddy said that the police have come out with traffic restrictions around Tank Bund from 11am to 5pm on Saturday only to stop TJAC. TJAC has posted the details of traffic restrictions on social media and also started an SMS campaign appealing to their activists to make it to their ‘destination’ keeping these curbs in mind. Police have also announced closure of NTR Gardens, Lumbini Park, Lake View Park and   from 10am to 5pm.
 
