PANAJI: The functioning of Goa   has been severely impaired due to two deputy inspector general of police (DIG) posts being vacant. While there are also four vacant superintendent of police (SP) posts, existing SPs have been given multiple responsibilities, thus stretching the force thin. 

 Senior police officers say that the state government should ask the Union ministry of home affairs to provide IPS officers to Goa to fill up the two vacant DIG posts. They say one of the reasons it’s difficult to fill these posts is that many IPS officers do not want a posting in Goa. 
 
 Sources say in the past, DIG-level officers, on being transferred here, immediately petition the MHA to cancel their transfer. If that doesn’t work, they take charge as DIG and then go on leave. This also hampers the functioning of the force. 
 
 The two DIG posts have been vacant since October 2017, when   and Vimal Gupta were transferred. Since then, inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh has held additional charge of both posts. A senior official said that this puts severe pressure on the IGP. 
 
 Goa currently has 14 posts of SP, and four of them, from the Goa police cadre, are vacant. The others, all IPS posts, are filled. Besides this, Goa police has over 500 vacancies at the sub-inspector, head constable, constable and other levels. The most vacancies are at the constable level, with 260 of the 3,900 sanctioned posts still waiting to be filled. The second-highest is at the PSI level, in which 120 of the 370 positions are vacant. Of the 1,000-odd head constable posts, 52 are lying vacant. 
 
 The state government is currently in the process of carrying out direct recruitment of 15 deputy superintendents of police (DySPs) into the force. 
 
  metre
 
 Two posts of DIG are vacant. The IGP holds additional charge of both
 
 There are four vacant SP posts; existing SPs have been given extra responsibilites
 
 All four vacant SP posts are from the Goa police cadre. All IPS posts are filled
 
 There are over 500 vacancies in the PSI, head constable, and constable levels
 
 
