NEW DELHI: Swimming is the best form of exercise in summer. However, beware of the way you do it. Diving into the   end of the pool can be life-threatening, said doctors at  . They recently came across a 17-year-old who injured his neck while diving incorrectly.

 Such was the trauma that the boy became immobile after diving into the shallow end of a pool. It took nearly six months to help him gain some mobility.
 
 
  
 
 The incident took place in August last year. Swapnil Gupta, the boy, sustained an acute injury to neck after diving into the shallow end. All four of his limbs from neck downwards were paralysed, and he lost control over urine and stools immediately thereafter.
 
 Dr H S Chhabra, medical director and chief of spine services at ISIC said that the boy was initially stabilised in a hospital in Kota where the incident took place and came to ISIC for further management.
 
 “He underwent a conservative surgery on August 18 wherein posterior stabilisation of cervical spine was done with lateral mass screw fixation from C3 to C5. After that, intensive medical management continued for some time,” Dr Chhabra said. He added that such cervical injuries carry a high mortality rate of 9% to 13% even in developed countries. The initial goal, the ISIC chief said, was to make the patient as independent as possible according to the level of injury.
 
 After two months, neurological recovery started in lower limbs as well. However, after some recovery over a month, the neurological recovery plateaued. The neurology at this point of time was not enough for useful functional recovery.
 
 The doctors’ team at ISIC felt Swapnil may benefit from aggressive rehabilitation including hydrotherapy and body weight suspension treadmill therapy.
 
 However after his diving accident Swapnil had developed a phobia for the pool and hence was not at all willing to explore the option of hydrotherapy.
 
 Since there was no progress the family started exploring the option of taking Swapnil back home. However, ISIC officials said convinced the family to try it once for the boy’s future and they agreed.
 
 Aggressive rehabilitation, coupled with counseling and psychiatric medication got Swapnil’s rehabilitation back on track.
 
 On February, when the 17-year-old was discharged finally, doctors said he was not only able to do activities of daily living like writing, using a laptop and brushing teeth but he could also walk with support of a walker and is able to do most of his daily activities. “He is now preparing to join school,” Dr Chhabra said.
 
 He added that the case of Swapnil is an example of how trivial events can turn into life changing incidences which can have devastating consequences. The general public must be made aware of safety rules. “For preventing diving accidents, one should take care to never   into shallow end of a pool. Dive head first only in designated waterbodies,” the ISIC chief said.
 
 If you dive head-first and hit the water with enough force, or at the wrong angle, he added, you can break your neck and become paralysed for life.
 
 
