CHANDIGARH: The list that Punjab chief minister Captain   handed over to Canadian PM   on February 21 has minute details of the nine men who are seen the most active handlers of alleged Khalistani terrorists in Punjab. Most of them are linked to International Sikh Youth Federation (ISYF) and   Tiger Force. 

 Details in the list include when they last visited India, how they funded firearms for terror modules and how they received funds from terror groups in Pakistan. Of the nine names, five have been booked for various crimes including terror activities. They are Gurjeet Singh Cheema, Gurpreet Singh, Hardeep Singh Nijjar, Gurjinder Singh Pannu and   alias Fauji Sanjeev Verma.
 
 TOI is not making the remaining four names public as the men are still being investigated and are yet to be booked for serious offences. The process of issuing red corner notices against the accused is also under process.
 
 Trudeau’s trip, which was supposed to be a public relations exercise, turned into a political minefield after senior ministers of both the Centre and the Punjab government initially avoided meeting Trudeau to register their protest over the Canadian government’s alleged proximity to some so-called Khalistani sympathisers. Interestingly, ISYF figured even in the joint statement that Trudeau and Modi released after their meeting on Friday.
 
 The list given to Trudeau includes details of the Canadabased handlers not only arming the modules but also funding them.
 
 For instance, Cheema transferring Rs 75,000 Sukhmanpreet Singh in July 2016 and May 2017 to help set up a module. He also helped module members get ‘militant hardware’ from Pakistan through his associate there, Lakhbir Singh Rode. Rode is nephew of slain militant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and brother of former Akal Takht jathedar Jasbir Singh Rode.
 
 Gurpreset Singh, on the other hand, arranged more than Rs 1 lakh for his module between June 2016 and Febriary, 2017. Nijjer to sourced Rs 10 lakh to Jagtar Tara in September 2012 for carrying out terrorists activities in India. Tara is accused in the August 1995 assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh and is presently in Burail jail in Chandigarh.
 
 Cheema, Gurpreet Singh and Pannu have been identified as operatives of ISYF. An FIR was registered against them on May 21, 2017 in Amritsar. They have been booked under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and the Arms Act.
 
 Nijjar has accused of raising a 5-member Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) module in 2014 and four criminal cases have been registered against him at Patiala, Noorpur Bedi and Ludhiana for murder, under UAPA and Arms Act between 2009 and 2016. In 2009, he was accused in the muder of former Rulda Singh, who was then heading the Rashtriya Sikh Sangat, an affiliate of RSS.
 
 Fauji is a Babbar Khalsa International (BKI) operative and has been booked under UAPA and Arms Act at police station Mukandpur in Nawanshar on June 5, 2017.
 
 One of the four men, who identity has not been revealed by TOI, is a frequent visitor to Pakistan and maintains contact with chief of the Khalistan Zindabad Force. Another accused was one of the key speakers at an event outside Canadian parliament on June 10 last year where the Khalistan flag was hoisted.
 
 
 
