For someone who played a majority of his football with  , how difficult is it for the club to live in the shadow of great Catalonian rivals Barcelona?
 It’s true that there are lot of Barcelona fans in the city. Even when I was playing there (at Espanyol), they have a lot more support and that makes it difficult for Espanyol. They are the biggest team and it’s normal (for people to support them). For us, we try and do the best we can. The derby always means a lot. We can only try and do as much as possible, although there is no denying that Barcelona is the bigger team.
  
  Espanyol lost to Barcelona on penalties in the final of the Catalunya Super Copa last night. That must have disappointed you?
  Obviously. I always want Espanyol to win, more so when they are playing against Barcelona. It’s a little disappointing (to lose the final) but there is always a next time.
  
  You played in the La Liga against both Cristiano   and Lionel  . Who is the greatest?
  It’s a little difficult to choose because both are extremely good players. Obviously, the fact that their careers have coincided has made it even more difficult (to choose). If I had to pick one, I would pick Messi. He is more natural while Ronaldo is lot of hard work and effort. Messi is simply magic.
  
  Do you think Neymar did the right thing by moving to PSG from Barcelona?
  I don’t think he has done well to move away from Barcelona which is the biggest and best team in the world. But if his ultimate aim is to move to Real Madrid, then maybe this was the step that he had to take, so that his move to Madrid comes true.
  
  You are known to score in big games. You scored in the UEFA Cup semifinal against Werder Bremen in 2007, your last-minute goal against Real Sociedad saved Espanyol from relegation in 2006. From among all the goals that you scored, which one do you remember the most?
  The goal against Werder Bremen I remember distinctly but I also have the memory that in the UEFA Cup final, (coach) Ernesto Valverde did not field me. I couldn’t play. The most important goal for me is the one I scored to save Espanyol (from relegation). The goal was important for the club, planning to build a new stadium at that time. It was important that Espanyol did not get relegated. In terms of what it meant to the club and in terms of staying up, besides of course the economics, to score in the last minute in such an important match was special.
  
  You have 18 goals in 18 matches for  . Did you expect to strike such rich form in India, particularly for someone who was always a winger?
  Ever since I was a kid, I always considered myself a striker. The first time I played on the wings was when I played for the junior teams in Spain. Once they put me there, Espanyol also played me as a winger. In my mind, though, I was always a striker. I think in Goa, the style of play has allowed me to score (so many) goals.
  
  You are the only player to score against every team in the  . Which has been the most difficult?
  (Bengaluru FC striker) Hasn’t Miku scored against every team? The two teams, according to me, who are the strongest and hardest to play against are   FC and Jamshedpur FC. Their central defenders are quick and strong. They make it difficult (to score). But this is a balanced league with teams at a similar level. Each game is different. You just need to take it upon yourself to score.
  
  FC Goa kept a clean sheet for two of the last three matches. Now that goalkeeper Naveen Kumar is suspended and Laxmikant Kattimani will be back, is there any cause to worry?
  Do you want me to criticise Katti? I am not worried at all. We are completely calm. He has been training well. In the past few games, we managed to achieve the balance that we were always aiming for, and that explains the clean sheets. I am not worried surely. I think Katti will do well. In fact, all three of our goalkeepers have been doing a good job (in training).
  
  How easy is it to play in the same team that has Spanish players like Manuel Lanzarote and Edu Bedia in the starting eleven?
  I know them from my time in Spain. Also, to be able to play with them and know there are players who will make that telling pass is always good. It also helps that we speak the same language. Things get so much easier.
  
  Does it help to have a Spanish coach, who speaks the same language and has the same philosophy?
  Obviously, it is easier to play under a coach who speaks the same language. I am in fact trying to speak English! It makes things easier when you have a coach who wants to play a similar style of play (which you are comfortable with). Makes it easier for all of us.
  
  Are you aware that at least six teams want to sign you for next season, and one of them wants to make you the best paid player in the league?
  I am not sure whether it’s five or six teams who are interested, but what I do know, and can tell you, is that I am aware of certain interest (from teams). I really don’t know what to make of this. As far as being the best paid player, no comments about that. I am here in Goa, with FC Goa and enjoying my time here.
  
  The question that everyone has been asking: Will you continue in Goa next season?
  I would like to stay here for the next season. I am happy here. My family is happy. It’s just about speaking to the club and trying to understand (how to take things forward).
  
  You have played most of your career as a winger. At FC Goa, you are playing as a striker. Was it difficult to make the adjustment?
  Physically, I was very well prepared to adjust to the demands of the league. Yes, I am a little bit old at this stage but I felt physically fine and ready to compete at this stage. There was (Adrian) Colunga earlier and (Mark) Sifneos now (as strikers in the team) but when I got the opportunity to play, I was happy how I fared.
  
  Going by the number of goals you scored, do you think you should have switched to the striker’s position earlier in your career?
  I tried but all the coaches didn’t listen to me! What can I do? Just joking! On a serious note, I always try to do what is best for the team, and if that means playing on the wings, I will do that. If I am given the chance to play as a striker, that’s even better.
  
  Your wife and daughter are both in Goa. How are they enjoying life in Goa?
  They are happy here but we are in the hotel most of the time. Sometimes, we have a chance when I am off and not training, so we try and go to the beach, visit places that people have recommended. We try and enjoy Goa as much as possible.
  
  You are on fire this season, scoring plenty of goals but there must have been a time when things did not go according to plan.
  It’s true we had some tough moments, not just for me but the entire team. But the coach (Sergio  ) spoke to us and explained that in football, there will always be moments like these. Right now, we are in a good moment, and we have to make the best use of it by qualifying for the final.
  
  What was the toughest moment in your career? Was it when former teammate and then coach Mauricio Pochettino – now coach of English Premier League runners-up Tottenham Hotspur – benched you at Espanyol, prompting a loan move to Osasuna?
  It is one of the difficult phase that I had to go through, particularly because Espanyol is a club that I was a part of for 10 years. People liked me there and wanted me to continue. But this is something that happens in football. There will be moments when you will not be part of the (core) group, kept aside from the rest of the team. It’s difficult but you have no choice but remain strong and carry forward.
  
  Goa has a Spanish connect. We have St Francis Xavier who was a Spanish missionary. In cuisine, Goa is famous for the ‘Chourico’ (smoked pork meat). The ‘Chorizo’ is also popular in Spain. Your comments.
  Chorizo is something that I have tasted in all the restaurants here. I am not saying it’s one of the most favourite thing I have tried but it’s something that I like.
  
  What do you make of Goan cuisine? Any favourite dish?
  I have tried a few things but what I cannot handle is the spice. They put a lot of spice in the food. I like trying food but sometimes I have to step back looking at the spice. I don’t know how spicy the food would be.
  
  What brought you to India in the first place?
  I was always fascinated by India as a country and that pull was always there. I had two offers from the league this year. Then I spoke to the coach who explained to me his style of play and philosophy. I also had a word with a few players who had played in the ISL before. They all spoke well about the league and Goa as a place.
  
  How has life changed with multiple hat-tricks in the ISL?
  I don’t think anything has changed. Obviously, I am happier now but I keep trying all the time to help my team. I want to do my best everyday. But nothing particular has changed for me after the hat-tricks or goals in the ISL.
  
  
  Does the team rally behind you and create opportunities for you, since they know you’ve been hitting the target regularly?
  Not necessarily. We have to try and play the way we have done till now. We have to keep creating chances. If the chance comes my way, great. But all of us have to pick up the best possible option at that time. Everyone must pass to the team-mate who is in the best position to score.
  
  Can you tell us a little bit about your celebration after every goal in the ISL? Is it something that you always do, or started here in India?
  This isn’t the first time. I started this in Elche (in Spain). There is no reason behind this. One day I decided I would try this (step) and that has stayed with me since.
  
  The fans who came up with the Tiki Taka video on FC Goa say it was not difficult to convince you to dance. Does that come naturally to you, like scoring goals?
  If I say yes, will you make me dance here? It wasn’t difficult because it’s one of my hobby. I like dancing.
  
  What do you think are the advantages of the Tiki-Taka style of football?
  It’s an idea that I believe in and was made popular by (former Barcelona coach) Pep Guardiola. It’s from the Barcelona school of thought. I like the idea of sticking to the ball and playing to your strength. When you have the ball, there are more chances to score. I think everyone likes that (style).
  
  What is your experience of playing with Indian team-mates. Did you have to adjust a great deal?
  I am very positively surprised with the level of the Indian players. There are a lot of young players in the team. The ambience within the team is very good. They are all quite nice. In terms of adapting, I didn’t have to. Once you start playing with them, you tend to understand and know their movement. You have to play to their strengths. In football, you must make these little adjustments. It’s never been about coming down to match their level.
  
  Considering Chennaiyin FC’s good record against FC Goa at Fatorda, what are your thoughts going into Saturday’s game?
  The only thing that is on our mind is winning. We have to win this battle and make it to the final. We will remain as optimistic as possible. I am an optimist myself. We cannot think about the past. Our focus is on winning this one.
  
  Besides football, what else interests you?
  There are a few things that I like besides football. Family, obviously, is the most important for me. I spend a lot of time with my wife and daughter. I have other hobbies too. I am a big fan of TV series. I like to play poker as well. It’s something I try to indulge in whenever I have the time. I try to distract myself with a few things. 
