CHANDIGARH: After running plastic moulding unit from  , Phase I, for over 25 years, Ravinder Kumar Garg has shifted base to Mohali and neighbouring areas. Garg is not alone. According to data available with city-based industrial associations, around 200   have shifted out of Chandigarh in the last one year.

 Reasons: introduction of Goods and   (GST), high rentals, power tariff and stringent rules. The number of units shifting out of the city has only gone up since the introduction of GST.
 
 In the old tax regime, industrial units operating from Chandigarh were provided tax concession as they were charged central sales tax (CST) at the rate of 1% for inter-state transaction, whereas the units in the neighbouring states had to pay a higher rate of CST. With the introduction of GST, the inter-state taxes are available for input tax credit, which was not the case in the previous tax system.
 
 Ajay Jagga, a city-based GST expert, said GST, which is based on the principle of “one nation, one market, one tax”, has enabled businessmen to move to places from where they can get maximum benefit.
 
 With introduction of GST e-way bill, the industry is also facing issues with transportation of goods. GST e-way bill is an electronic bill, which is required for the movement of goods in case the value of goods are above Rs 50,000. A majority of transporters are located in Mohali district, leading to complications in respect of e-way bill and other documentation mandatory under GST. “This is one of the major concerns for industry situated in Chandigarh,” said  , a consultant with Industry Association of Chandigarh.
 
 
 
 
 The decision to move out of Chandigarh has proved beneficial to all units as they are saving substantial money on electricity and rentals. The industrial power tariff in Chandigarh is considerably higher than rates prevailing in Mohali.
 
 An industrial unit in the city pays around Rs 10 per unit, including other charges, whereas one unit of power in Mohali costs around Rs 6.50. The gap has widened after the Punjab government decision to supply power to industry at a flat rate of Rs 5 per unit for next five years.
 
 Ravinder Kumar Garg, who shifted his plastic moulding unit in October last year, said: “The high power tariff was impacting the productivity and revenue.” Garg said the monthly power bill of his unit spread in an area of 8 marlas in Chandigarh was around Rs 2 lakh, while in Mohali the power bill of the units located in an area of 1 kanal has come down to around Rs 1 lakh. Garg said he is paying Rs 50,000 per month as rent for 1 kanal space in Mohali. He was paying the same rent for 8 marla space in Chandigarh.
 
 Rajesh Girdhir, who was running one of the oldest printing industry of the city, shifted to Derabassi in August last year. Other than financial reasons,   termed rigid laws as the main reasons. “The local administration is not ready to change age old norms. They are killing the industry, which is already going through a sluggish phase,” rued Girdhir whose father had set up the industry in Chandigarh in 1962.
 
 Jaspal Singh, who was running an auto spare parts manufacturing unit since 1965 in Chandigarh, said the decision of moving out of Chandigarh has not only helped them save money but also expand operation, leading to higher revenue. “We were not able to expand our operations in Chandigarh due to stringent norms and lack of availability of space,” said Jaspal Singh.
 
