

 
 Don’t be surprised if you see a group of youngsters hitting the roads in Jaipur and grooving to hip-hop music; these footloose fanatics are Jaipur’s street dancers – they often face the displeasure of their parents and relatives – who are trying to make a mark for themselves. On the occasion of International Dance Day, Jaipur Times spoke to a few street dancers – some as young as 17 – to understand more about this style of dancing and how it is slowly getting a push in the city with many coming together to form dance troupes. 
 
 
 
  
  (L-R) Divyansh Sharma and Karan Bhatia (Shalini Maheshwari/BCCL)
 
 Karan Bhatia, a 21-year-old fitness trainer and resident of Pratap Nagar, has been into street dancing for a past couple of years. “I was in class X when I first saw a video of a street dance battle. I got so fascinated with their moves that I told myself, ‘This is what I want to do.’ Soon after, I joined a dance class in Delhi because there was nobody in Jaipur who could teach me hip-hop.
 
 Ever since I have learned this style, I have participated in dancing battles and face-offs and sometimes even performed in open spaces like parks or pavements, just for fun,” he says.
 
 
 
  
  Karan Bhatia at Jawahar Circle (Shalini Maheshwari/BCCL)
 
 Karan tells us, “Street dance is an umbrella term which encompasses a range of dance styles such as hip-hop, B-boying, popping, locking, krumping and a few others. It originated in New York in the ’70s.” He shared with us that Jaipur is slowly opening up to this concept with many in the city organizing battles and dance face-offs. “We have practice sessions every week, mostly on Sundays. After college or work, we (street dancers) get together at Jawahar Circle or Central Park and rehearse. When we rehearse, it attracts the crowd who then asks us about this form of dance. Unlike Delhi and Mumbai, this concept is new in Jaipur. But the situation is getting better each and every day. Dance battles and face-offs are being organized in the city, either during college festivals or by dance studios. In fact, I have won three dance battles this year,” he said with a beaming smile. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 While Karan took a formal training from a Delhi-based dance institute, 17-year-old Divyansh Sharma learnt to pop by watching YouTube videos. However, for Divyansh, his biggest challenge was to convince his parents. Divyansh says, “I hail from Ajmer, and my family did not support me when I told them that I was keen on learning street dance. They were like, ‘Yeh kaisa dance hai? Tu road pe nachega? Ismein koi future nahi hai.’ So I chalked out a plan and convinced my parents to send me to Jaipur to pursue my senior secondary education. I thought that since I will be living alone, I would get ample time to learn popping. I can’t imagine my life without dance. I am now friends with fellow street dancers of Jaipur. We have even formed a seven-member crew, The Tribes.” 
 
 
 
  
  (L-R) Kunal Sharma, Jay Singh and Raj Indora grooving to the hip-hop beats at   (Shalini Maheshwari/BCCL)
 
 
 Kunal Sharma, a 21-year-old hip-hop dancer has a similar story to share. Kunal has completed his engineering and just like Divyansh’s, even Kunal’s parents objected to the idea of him becoming a professional street dancer. “They wanted me to take up an engineering job but I didn’t want to. Classical dance is still okay but ‘hip-hop or street dance...what is that?’ they would ask,” says Kunal, adding, “They refused to give me money to learn hip-hop. Initially, I learned a few moves by watching online videos but to polish one’s skills, one needs a mentor and also money to pay for the fees. So, I started doing graffiti art, one of my other passions, in Jaipur. I started organizing graffiti workshops; I still do. This way, I was able to earn money and I enrolled myself in a dance workshop organized in Delhi. The struggle is still there, be it financially or when it comes to acceptance from parents or society at large. But I am sure, things will change for good.” 
 
 Kunal adds, “Jaipur is still warming up to this culture, and it will take time for people to change their attitude towards street dancing. We are not called for commercial shows. We just perform at battles and face-offs. As of now, for those who want to make a career in hip-hop dancing and want to make a living out of it have to move to cities like Delhi or Mumbai as there are a lot of opportunities there.”
 
 
 
 
 Raj Indora, a 21-year-old BCom graduate and resident of Jhotwara, can often be spotted practising hip-hop with fellow dancers at Statue Circle. He feels that the street dance scene in Jaipur is still underground but with new groups coming up every day, this dance form will definitely gain a foothold in the city. “The growing interest of Jaipur in hip-hop is a sign of hope,” says Raj. So, what is the best part about street dancing? “It is not restricted choreographed dancing,” he tells us, adding, “I am into both street dancing and stage performances. The latter helps me pay my bills. What I like the most about street dancing is that it is freestyle and you can flaunt all your moves. Stage performances are choreographed dancing,” he says. 
 
  
  
 
 Manoj Joshi, a 26-year-old dancer and resident of Vidhyadhar Nagar, is both street and stage dancer. He learnt hip-hop from Delhi in 2011 and is now doing his bit to promote this dance form in Jaipur. He has opened up a dance studio in the city and also organises street-dance battles. “As of now, I have organised battles at my studio itself. But now, I am planning to organise it at open spaces too. As for battles, I have always got a good response, which says that dancers are looking for opportunities. Such is the pull that an SMS a day before the battle easily draws a crowd of more than 20-30 dancers,” says Manoj.
 
  
 
 
