NEW DELHI: The   ( ) has released the Admit Cards for National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test (NEET) 2018-19. 

 
 The CBSE will conduct the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test for admission to MBBS/BDS Courses in the session 2018-19 on Sunday, May 6, 2018.
 
 After downloading NEET UG admit card, affix a passport size photograph on it and fill the proforma mentioned in  . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 CBSE conducts the NEET exams for admission to MBBS/BDS Courses in India in Medical/Dental Colleges run with the approval of   under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare,
 
 Government of India except for the institutions established through an Act of   i.e.   and JIPMER Puducherry.
 
 Candidates are required to download the admit cards from the official website and follow the instructions given therein. Candidate should note that admit cards will not be sent by post. When candidate will download the Admit Card, a copy of the same in PDF format will also be emailed to the candidate on the email ID, registered at the time of filling the NEET 2018 form. 
 
 
 
 
 Your Admit Card will bear the Roll Number, Name, Father's Name, Category, Sub-Category, Photograph, Signature, Date of Birth, Language of Question Paper with Name and Address of examination centre allotted to you. 
 
 The candidate should carefully examine the Admit Card downloaded by him/her for all the entries made therein.
 
 The candidate must carry his/her admit card on the day of examination along with the passport size photograph and must show it for admission in the Examination Hall. As per the CBSE rules, a candidate, who does not possess the valid Admit Card will not be allowed to enter the Examination Hall.
 
 During the examination time, the invigilator will check Admit Card of the candidates to satisfy himself/herself about the identity of each candidate. And after satisfied with your identity and other relevant details, the invigilator will also put his/her signatures in the place provided in the Answer Sheet on SIDE-1.
 
 Also on exam day, candidates are advised to follow NEET 2018 exam dress code. As per the official guidelines, students should be dressed in light clothes with half sleeves worn with salwar/trouser. The NEET dress code prohibits students from wearing anything with big buttons, brooch/badge, flower etc. 
 
 Students should be wearing only slippers or sandals with low heels and not shoes. Girls should not wear any close toed footwear. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Candidates, please note that if you find any discrepancy in your admit card you should report this immediately to the CBSE as the information printed on the card will be verified at the time of admission, if found incorrect then your candidature may be cancelled. 
 
 
 
