Ranchi: Top guns from the ruling   and the opposition parties did not campaign for their respective mayoral and deputy-mayoral candidates who are contesting in the Ranchi   Corporation ( ) election.

 The onus of door-to-door campaigning, public meetings and roadshows for BJP candidates in Ranchi fell upon state urban development and transport minister C P Singh and Kanke   Jitu Charan Ram as chief minister Raghubar Das and other important functionaries of the party distanced themselves from direct electioneering activities in the state capital.
 
 BJP is hopeful of winning the RMC polls and is banking on incumbent mayor Asha Lakra and deputy mayor Sanjiv Vijaywargia who are in the fray for the posts. Jharkhand Mukti Morcha ( ) is also confident of a convincing win for its mayoral candidate Varsha Gari and deputy mayor nominee Ashraf Khan.
 
 A senior BJP leader hinted that the Das is managing all party candidates and their poll strategies. He said, “The CM held a closed-door meeting with all BJP candidates in all the urban local bodies that are going to polls. He encouraged and urged them to seek votes by highlighting the key achievements of the state government.”
 
 This year’s civic body polls are being touted as dress-rehearsal for the 2019 parliamentary and state assembly elections. Yet heavyweights from the JMM too did not campaign in Ranchi despite their names being on the party’s list of star campaigners. 
 
 JMM working president Hemant Soren also did not campaign in Ranchi. When asked about it, Soren said: “Both guruji (Shibu Soren) and I have decided to stay away from this year’s civic body polls. Pahle BJP humaare karyakartao se nipat le. Humaare karyakarta hi kaafi hai (First, let the BJP tackle our party workers. Our workers are enough to take them on).” 
 
 Congress, which has backed independent candidate Ajay Tirkey as mayoral candidate and fielded Rajesh Kumar Gupta for deputy mayor, also did not bring in any star campaigners. While former Ranchi MP Subodh Kant Sahay took to the streets, state   president Ajoy Kumar briefly campaigned for Gupta on March 31. “We will put up a decent performance across Jharkhand and in Ranchi,” Kumar said over the phone from Seraikela on Sunday afternoon. 
 
 Jharkhand Vikas Morcha – Prajatantrik (JVM-P) chief Babulal Marandi stood out as the exception. As the campaign trails drew to a close on Saturday, the former CM held four public meetings and participated in three road shows to seek support for the party’s mayoral candidate Shiva Kacchap and deputy mayor candidate Uttam Yadav.
 
 
