LUCKNOW: Quoting a personal favourite from his book ' ' on the eve of Yash Bharti Award in July 2015, author   had said: "Mera janm aam logon ke jaisa nahi... ki main khaas hoon, aisa waisa nahi... (I was not born like ordinary people, I am special)". 

 While the couplet narrated the unfolding of Lord Krishna's personality before a bewildered Arjuna in the middle of Kurukshetra, it also reflected  's own self and his unique connect with Avadh's syncretic culture commonly known as 'Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb'. 
 
 In an interview to TOI, Jalalpuri had said that recognitition to his book 'Urdu Shayari Mein Gita' filled him with hope that there were takers of Avadh's culture. "The award (Yash Bharti) has honoured my mission to nourish Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb. I hope my book facilitates better understanding of Srimad Bhagvad Gita which largely stresses importance of 'karma' or action," he said. 
 
 The book was an outcome of his 32-year old penance that began in 1982. Anwar had enrolled for a PhD programme on critical analysis of Urdu translations of Gita. In two years, Jalalpuri realised the vastness of the subject and gave up the idea of doctorate.
 
 Meanwhile, he translated Rabindra Nath Tagore's '  ' and  's ' Rubaiyat', besides penning 14 other books. 
 
 But all this while, his love for Gita's philosophy survived and refused to wane despite failure. So, he decided to convert shloks into shers. The snail-paced progress caught momentum after 2002. But the book could be published in May 2014. The work on an audio-CD of the book is under way. 
 
 Anwar hailed from a humble family in   hamlet of Ambedkarnagar district. His childhood interest in poetry was chiselled at Shibli National College, Azamgarh and Aligarh Muslum Univerity. Thereafter, he joined as a lecturer in English in the Sibli College. 
 
 He will be remembered as a versatile poet having tried his pen in dialogue writing (for Sanjay Khan's TV series Akhbar the great) as well, besides writing all in styles in Urdu like natiya, rubai, doha and so on. He played himself in   starrer Dedh Ishqiya, too. 
 
 Jalalpuri's demise closed a chapter in the history of Urdu poetry but he shall remain a shining star of Avadh culture. There were glowing tributes pouring from all corners recalling his contribution as a poet and also his struggle in life. Celebrated poet Munnawar Rana, to whom Anwar was like an elder brother, said: "I am a witness to the struggle of a father who presented 'mushairas' all night to support the coaching fees of his son and have learnt from the teacher-turned-poet who believed in uniting rather than separating hearts," Rana said. 
 
 Officiating chairperson, Bhasha Sansthan UP, Gopal Chaturvedi said: "Anwar's demise has ended a chapter of India's shared culture and legacy. The wizard of words from Hindi, Urdu and English, Jalalpuri will always be remembered as a representative poet of secularism."
 
 
