CHANDIGARH: Perturbed by not getting a cabinet berth, three senior   MLAs —Rakesh Pandey from Ludhiana (North), Randeep Singh Nabha (Amloh) and Amrik Singh Dhillon (Samrala) — resigned from the recently-constituted committees of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on Monday.

 Five-time legislator Pandey told TOI that his seniority had been ignored during the  . He added that after the swearing in of new faces in the cabinet, he had indicated to the party that he planned to resign from party positions but on not getting any response, he sought an appointment with Congress president Rahul Gandhi and is waiting for a meeting before deciding on his future course of action. “As for the assembly panel, I would rather spend more time working for the people of my constituency,” he said.
 
 Pandey, who was chairman of the recently-constituted committee on public undertakings, also confirmed that he had sent his resignation to the Speaker. Pandey is also the vice president of the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee.
 
 While four-time MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon is chairman of the library committee, Nabha, is a member of the committee of public undertakings.
 
 Even though Pandey was seen as a frontrunner for a cabinet berth, he was left out. Later, on May 7 he was made the chairman of the panel. “The party leadership claimed that seniority was the sole criterion for getting a cabinet berth. By that logic, Pandey is the senior most after health minister Brahm Mohindra. The party has not tried to make Pandey come around,” said a Pandey supporter.
 
 Sources said the two other leaders were also peeved with the party leadership for ignoring their seniority as junior legislators had managed to corner a cabinet berth. Dhillon claimed, “The CM promised to consider seniority in giving ministerial berths. But one-time and two-time MLAs have been chosen over us,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said though he was yet to get any official communication about the resignation, the party would certainly try to reach out to the MLAs and address their grievances.
 
 Sources said the disgruntled congress MLAs waited for the party to reach out to them after the swearing in of new ministers last month. However, the party leader’s plans to appoint MLAs as legislative secretaries and heads of boards and corporations too failed to generate much enthusiasm.
 
 On the other hand, a party leader said the resignations have come as a signal from the annoyed MLAs that they should not be considered compensated with inclusion in panels of the Vidhan Sabha.
 
 Pandey lost the race to Bharat Bhushan Ashu (Ludhiana, West), who has been given the food, civil supplies and consumer affairs portfolio.
 
 Apart from senior MLAs, a section of hopefuls among the Dalit leaders too have been annoyed with the party after the cabinet expansion.
 
 Earlier, after the cabinet expansion last month, Congress MLA Sangat Singh Gilzian, MLA from Urmur seat in Hoshiarpur, had resigned from his party positions claiming that Dalit leaders had been ignored in the cabinet expansion. His resignation was followed by those of Surjit Singh Dhiman MLA from Amargarh, Sangrur and Nathu Ram, MLA from Balluana in Fazilka.
 
 
