NAGPUR: Stating that the plastic they use falls under the category of wrapping which has got exemption from the state government’s plastic ban, the packaged drinking water makers too have demanded a similar relief.

 On March 27, the   (MPCB) issued notices to manufacturers of packaged drinking water, stating that they have not complied with the   Rules, 2016, and Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974.
 
 Referring to the state government’s notification on plastic ban which was issued on March 23, the board further stated that the PET/PETE bottle manufacturers, producers, sellers and trades have to develop a ‘buy back depository mechanism’ with a pre-defined buy back price printed on bottles. Apart from this, they also have to set-up collection and recycling units of adequate capacity.
 
 Replying to the notice on April 4, the manufacturers pointed out that they should be exempted from the ban as they are using plastic “to wrap their product”. As per a clause in the state government’s notification, the plastic which is used to wrap the material at manufacturing stage or is an integral part of manufacturing is exempted from the statewide ban.
 
 The makers added that as per the government’s condition, they have been printing guidelines for crushing and recycling plastic on their labels since more than a decade. 
 
 On March 18, TOI had reported that the ban will hit the packaged drinking water manufacturers hard. It has put the onus of recycling on the manufacturers which seems to be “beyond their reach”. While the government has given them a deadline of three months to set-up recycling units, manufacturers said that there is no clarity in the government’s stand. 
 
 “It is not feasible for every manufacturer to set-up a unit. It is not clear if the government will permit common units,” said  , founder member of packaged drinking water manufacturers association, Nagpur.
 
 As per the government’s notification, the pre-defined buy back price for bottles having liquid holding capacity of 1 litre or more is Rs1 and that of 0.5 litres is Rs2. According to manufacturers, there is no transparency on this condition too. “Who will track the cash transactions? This will create a problem for us when accounting   and Service Tax (GST),” added Bharti.
 
 The manufacturers have informed MPCB that the extended producers responsibility plan is under discussion with all the stakeholders. 
 
 
