MUMBAI: In an attempt to ensure that beaches and the sea shore are not littered with garbage, the   has announced screens at   and Irla nullahs and a floating trash broom across the Dahisar, Poisar, Oshiwara and Mithi rivers.

 Activists said this was a positive move. Advocate   said this was long overdue for Mumbai. “If the trash collected is tackled at source itself and scientifically disposed, the beaches will remain much cleaner. Apart from it, this would eventually lead to less money being spent on the cleaning of beaches as they would not be littered like they are currently,” said Pimenta. RTI activist Anil Galgali said such proposals need to be result-oriented. “This would help in keeping the city’s beaches, most of which today are a huge tourist attraction, clean. Civic officials should concentrate on ensuring that the same is implemented,” said Galgali.
 
 
 Apart from beaches, the budget has focused on the rejuvenation of rivers like Dahisar, Poisar and Oshiwara. An expression of interest has been called from interested consulting firms for providing project management consultancy for this work. A budgetary provision of Rs 25 lakh in 2018-19 has been proposed for remuneration to the consultant.
 
 Meanwhile, in an attempt to eliminate 100% human intervention with sewage and for carrying out a scheduled programme of systematic cleaning and maintenance of the sewer network, the BMC plans to take up a mechanization programme (see box).
 
 The budget also saw an allocation of Rs 15 crore for Mithi River. The BMC has prepared a plan for the beautification of the river and for managing its sewage problem. This work is in three phases. The first phase is from Vihar lake to  , wherein sewage collection and treatment works, along with beautification of the river, shall be taken up. Tenders for the same have been called and the work is planned to begin in the coming year. The remaining works are being examined by a   and once their study is over, the projects shall be taken up.
 
 
