PATNA:   chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will launch ‘Nyay Yatra’ from   on February 10.

 It is aimed at targeting   government on alleged “scams, dwindling law and order situation and unsatisfactory development despite double-engine of the NDA government both at the Centre as well as in the state”. Tejashwi, who is also the leader of opposition in legislative assembly, dubbed the “double-engine” as “trouble-engine” because “almost no development is taking place and crime has increased in the state”. 
 
 Incidentally, Tejashwi’s yatra comes around a fortnight after conclusion of Nitish’s Vikas Sameeksha Yatra and around three weeks before the budget session of state legislature. 
 
 “The budget session of the assembly is slated to start on February 26. Accordingly, we want to go to the people beforehand and take their feedback on development works and other issues. Being the opposition party, it is our responsibility to raise such issues in the state legislature,” Tejashwi told reporters on Saturday.
 
 “BJP and JD(U) made tall claims about rapid development of the state owing to the ‘double engine’. The development has, however, stalled as they are still in election mode. They want to hold   and assembly elections simultaneously for vested interest. They have already betrayed the people’s mandate in the state and are planning to repeat the same,” he said. 
 
 RJD started the groundwork for the yatra soon after the conviction of Lalu in Deoghar treasury case of fodder scam on January 6. Party functionaries claimed a letter written by Lalu was distributed across the state till Makar Sankranti. Party insiders claimed the   was initially slated to be launched soon after Makar Sankranti, but it was postponed owing to acute cold weather, among other reasons.
 
 Tejashwi said though Lalu’s message would be spread among people, the yatra is not aimed at gaining sympathy. “Everyone knows how Lalu ji has been targeted out of political rivalry. We will definitely spread his message among people. But we will mainly focus on overall dissatisfaction among people on governance and issues such as unemployment, farmers’ unrest and deteriorating level of education and health in the state as well as the country,” Tejashwi said.
 
 Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, however, took a dig at Tejashwi’s planned yatra and suggested him to rename it as “chama (apology) yatra”. “There is nothing wrong about launching a yatra, but Tejashwi should first give clarification about how his father has been convicted in three fodder scam cases. I suggest he should take a pledge not to follow the footsteps of his father and surrender all his property to the poor,” SuMo said.
 
 
