HYDERABAD: With the   ruling allowing passive euthanasia, the focus is back on the petitions filed in various courts and Human Rights Commissions in   and Andhra Pradesh. Till date, there are five cases in which parents and relatives have sought mercy killing of patients who are suffering from terminal illness including cancer, muscular dystrophy and genetic disorders.

 Differentiating the petitions into passive and active euthanasia in pending and future cases will be an uphill task. Experts say procedures will depend on the guidelines or rules to be framed by the government or laws to be enacted. While many of these cases were shut, families of patients with terminal cancer and muscular dystrophy have renewed hope and doctors are welcoming the move to legalise passive euthanasia.
 
  
  
 
 In Hyderabad, the debate on euthanasia started long ago when Sujatha, mother of chess player Venkatesh, who was suffering from muscular dystrophy, approached the High Court and state Human Rights Commission seeking his mercy killing.
 
 Dr  , director of  , told TOI: “I have been waiting for this judgment. When cancer patients are in a terminal state and unconscious, the attendants are emotional. They spend lot of time and lakhs of rupees even when there is no hope. There are rare instances where patients come forward seeking euthanasia. If the new rules come into effect based on the   order, we can counsel relatives to go for a graceful death for patients in cases where there is no hope. However, the rules should be framed cautiously to identify fit cases.”
 
 Dr P   of KIMS -   for Breast Diseases, told TOI: “This would also apply to terminally-ill patients suffering with metastatic cancer. The disease spreads from organ of origin to different parts of the body and the patient does not respond to the treatment. Pain from cancer is very agonising and getting morphine is difficult too. The Supreme Court judgement is long overdue. Rather than suffering, it is important that the patient dies with dignity. A well-regulated mechanism can help patients.”
 
