CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader   on Monday accused Punjab technical education minister   of alleged involvement in illegal sand mining through his nephew. Refuting the charge,   said neither he nor his family had anything to do with mining business. 

 Khaira alleged that Malikpur mine in   district was allotted to Kudratdeep Singh of Ludhiana, who is the business partner and close associate of Channi's nephew Bhupinder Singh alias Honey. 
 
 Khaira alleged that just as former minister   had invested his money in sand mining contract through his cook Amit Bahadur, Channi had done it through Honey. He sought an inquiry into the money trail in the auction of the mine in question. "Honey has floated a firm named Punjab Realtors to get sand mining contracts. The case clearly shows that black money was invested in getting contract of the sand mine as the said company is of a very small scale and was not able to get contract worth several crores," Khaira alleged.
 
 Showing photos of Honey and Kudratdeep Singh with Congress ministers Channi, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and chief minister Amarinder Singh, Khaira said it showed that the contractor has deep links with the Congress leaders. He asked the government to mark an inquiry in the case by a commission under sitting or retired judge of the high court.
 
 "The CM had tweeted about the illegal mining being carried out in the SBS Nagar area few days back, I have provided the facts about it and now it is the CM's turn to take action against the people responsible for it," Khaira said.
 
 Reacting to the allegations, technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi reiterated that he or any his family members do not have any link or stake in the mining business. Channi said Khaira had levelled baseless and false allegations.
 
 Channi said, "A few days back Khaira had said that my relatives were indulged in illegal mining and backtracked from it. Now, he is saying that some people known to my relatives are involved in illegal mining. He himself says that the sand mine site in question is legally allotted by the government in an open auction; surprisingly Khaira changes his statement every day and comes up with new false story."
 
 Channi said his photos with the legal sand mine owner presented by Khaira in the media are from public functions and dharnas where anyone can participate. "No one can be declared culprit on the basis of photographs.
 
 He said he, along with his family members, is ready to swear at Sri Darbar Sahib, Amritsar, the highest temporal authority, that he has no stake in the legal or illegal mining activity.
 
 He asked Khaira to prove his allegation or be ready to face a lawsuit.
 
 
