PHAGWARA: More than seven years after an NRI family had moved a complaint with the   and two years after an order by the Punjab State Commission for NRIs ordering the registration of a case, police here finally registered an FIR for fraud, forgery and criminal conspiracy in the matter.

 According to the complaint, Rs 1.84 crore were taken by some persons for getting the sale deeds of the NRI’s land registered in their names as the land had come under the acquisition process. The then sub-registrar of Phagwara has also been booked in the case, along with a patwari, a deed writer and eight private persons, including Ramesh Arora, Amrit Pal and  .
 
 During the pendency of the case two complainants, Canada resident   and her son, had already died. Gurmit’s second son was pursuing the case. Their attorney Sukhjinder Singh Bhaur said he had taken up the complaint with Punjab DGP Suresh Arora after Phagwara police did not register the case even after the NRI Commission’s order on March 4, 2016, who then got the matter examined afresh, after which the FIR was registered.
 
 The order of the Punjab State Commission for NRIs, which is now part of the FIR, had also noted that officials made mutations in the land records in the name of the new buyers quickly. 
 
 Gurmit had moved the   in 2013 and during the pendency of the case she died, Bhaur said. In its order of March 4, the commission held that according to an affidavit and other documents filed by the officiating executive officer of the Phagwara Improvement Trust, the land in question was in the ownership of the complainant on the date of issuance of the notification for acquisition on December 12, 2008. The commission also found that patwari of the trust recommended on December 13, 2010, to release the compensation to Sudhir and others on the basis of the mutations of ownership entered in their name.
 
 The commission also found that from perusal of the records submitted by different officials and departments, it came out that the mutations in the names of the persons (who got the compensation) were entered on December 8 and December 13, 2010, while the sale deeds in their names were registered on December 7 and 10, 2010.
 
 “There is no explanation as to how, with such a great speed the mutations of the ownership were entered in the revenue records by them and how patwari of the trust in the absence of any other revenue order placed on record, could make a note recommending payment of compensation in favour of Sudhir, stating that mutations had been entered in their favour on December 8 and 13, 2010,” the commission order noted while also mentioning that complainant’s power of attorney, which was used for registering these sale deeds in 2010, was issued for some other land.
 
 
