MOHALI: Now that Chandigarh   is international, smugglers and their innovative ways are not far behind. In fact, they have been trying to sneak in gold through the airport using the most bizarre methods — moulding the yellow metal into a vacumn cleaner’s parts, making buttons and biscuits out of it, and some of them even placing it in their rectum.

 According to data with Chandigarh International Airport, the air intelligence wing of the customs department has made 21 seizures in which they have confiscated 15kg gold worth nearly Rs 5 crore since the airport started international operations in September 2016. Sources at the airport said while it was expected people would try to smuggle in gold through the airport after it turned international, the methods have been out-of-the-box.
 
 Here’s the latest example: On January 2, a Delhi man was caught trying to sneak in gold moulded into biscuits. New Delhi resident   was returning on the flight from Dubai and had simply put the gold biscuits, weight 468 grams and worth Rs 13.5 lakh, in his pockets.The accused was arrested by the customs department and later released on bail, said an officer, who did not wish to be named as he was not authorised to speak to the media.
 
 The officer said gold was the most preferred choice of smugglers as the airport’s first and oldest flight was to Dubai, where the yellow metal was of better quality and priced lower.
 
 When it comes to innovation, though, a seizure of 2.92kg of gold on December 8, 2017, was the most innovative. In this case, the smuggler, a resident of Delhi (NAME), had moulded the gold into parts of vacuum cleaner and trying to push it through the customs. He was caught when customs sleuths tried to operate the electric vacuum cleaner, but couldn’t.
 
 Most times, people trying to smuggle in the gold are not from Tricity and use this airport as it is new. On July 10, 2017, a man from Ulhasnagar, Maharashtra, was caught smuggling 407 grams (41 tolas) of gold hidden in his rectum. The man had to be taken to the washroom to recover the gold, valued at over Rs 11 lakh. The gold was in the form of thin bars. “We caught him in the x-ray machine,” said the officer.
 
 
