Vadodara: Thousands of sanitation workers from the state will soon undergo a major training programme for enabling them to tackle the urban waste in a professional manner. 

 The workers known as safai karmacharis will be trained by under the public-private partnership by the Government of India under the Swachcha Bharat Abhiyan programme. 
 
 “The project will primarily focus on sanitation workers in municipal corporations. These workers indulge in cleaning the roads and other public places but it is not done professionally and hygienically. So they have to be trained about handling the waste in professional way. We will soon start collecting the data of sanitation workers hired by all the municipal corporations in Gujarat,” said Rajesh Nambiar, chairman of Panacea Education that will train the workers. 
 
 The Sector Skill Council for Green Jobs under Government of India has joined hands with Panacea Education for implementing the programme. “The workers will undergo a 35-hour workshop spread over 20 days. They will be taught how to collect waste, handle it properly and transport it without littering the roads again. Also, focus will be on maintaining hygiene and ensuring that workers don’t get infected while doing their work,” Nambiar told TOI. Workers will also be told to wear gloves and masks regularly. 
 
 The trainers will give pictorial presentation in Gujarati language and focus on practical training. After the training, they will undergo an interview to ascertain if they have picked up the skills. If they pass the interview, the workers will be given a certificate. Every worker attending the programme will be given Rs 500 each. After the programme, all workers will undergo health checkup for free. The programme will take off from Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) and Mayor Bharat Dangar will inaugurate it on February 10. “We also want to organize a similar training programme for sanitation workers in the public health centres and hospitals,” Nambiar said. 
 
 
