RAMANATHPURAM: A family of four from   was taken into custody by the Q branch police for illegally entering India.

 Police said that B Nirojan, 28, a painter from Mannar district in Sri Lanka, along with his pregnant wife, child and brother came to   in the district by an illegal ferry on Thursday morning. 
 
 However, they were taken into custody by the Q branch sleuths and are likely to be produced before the   court on charges of violating the Passport Act and entering the country illegally.
 
 Police said that Nirojan had brought his family to India after realising that his wife may not get required medical care of her complicated pregnancy in Sri Lanka. A Sri Lankan Tamil, Nirojan used to live in a refugee camp in   till 2012. 
 
 He has married  , 23, during his stay in the refugee camp and the couple has a six-year-old daughter who was born in Tamil Nadu. They returned to Sri Lanka after obtaining proper documents.
 
 Under these circumstances, Stella got pregnant again. During interrogation, Nirojan told Q branch sleuths that there were no adequate medical facilities at Mannar or   since it was found that she may suffer complications during delivery. 
 
 Realising that they can’t afford the treatment in Colombo, they decided to take an illegal ferry to India.
 
 Through friends and family members, Nirojan collected Rs 50,000 of Sri Lankan currency and hired the illegal ferry to bring them to Dhanushkodi. 
 
 They started from Mannar on Wednesday night and reached Dhanushkodi on Thursday morning. The boatman fled after dropping them ashore. Nirojan’s brother Krithikan, 21, accompanied the couple and their child.
 
 Q branch sources said the Sri Lankan nationals will be produced before a magistrate court in Rameswaram. 
 
 All foreign nationals entering the state illegally are lodged in Chenna Puzhal prison, but considering the condition of the woman and her child, only the men may be taken there. 
 
 The woman and her child may be allowed to stay at Mandapam refugee camp.
 
 
