Guntur: In a welcome move, the state government has decided to expand the   gift scheme to   of   from the coming academic year. The scheme, called Badiki Vasta, was implemented for Class IX students during the last academic year.

 The government approved the gifting of bicycles to all Class VIII and IX students from the coming academic year. About 3.8 lakh students are expected to benefit.
 
 The scheme was launched with a view to arrest the dropout rate and increase enrolment of girl students in higher classes. The school education department conducted a comprehensive study across the state and found that the girl students were facing extreme difficulties in going to school from their homes, particularly after the closure and merger of some high schools due to poor enrolment. 
 
 Taking a serious note of the dip in enrolment of girl students, the school education department urged the state government to allow it to gift a bicycle to each one of the Class IX girl student to which the chief minister gave his nod last year. The school education department reasoned that giving the bicycle in Class IX itself would help them retain girls in school till they complete Class X.
 
 After the scheme yielded encouraging results, the school education department thought of expanding it to Class VIII girl students from the current academic year. According to the school records of the last academic year, about 1,94,067 students would be studying in Class VIII and another 1,86,715 students would be in Class IX. In all, about 3,80,782 girl students would require bicycles from both the classes. 
 
 “There is no dearth of funds to start such programmes. We want every girl student to complete at least high school studies. The chief minister is determined to support each and every student to pursue their dreams of completing studies,” said HRD minister Ganta Srinivas Rao.
 
 However, the implementation of the Badiki Vasta programme during the last academic year was not on the right track. Although the government spared funds to procure bicycles for nearly 1.8 lakh students of Class IX, the school education department was said to have distributed just around one lakh bicycles till the end of the academic year. In fact, the school headmasters uploaded just around 50,000 pictures of bicycle distribution to the website.
 
 “The department should take measures to start distribution of the bicycles right from Day 1 and complete the distribution by the end of June to help the students,” said Municipal Teachers Federation state president S Ramakrishna.
 
 
