UDHAGAMANDALAM: Chief minister   on Friday laid the foundation for the Kundah Pumped Storage Hydro-Electric Project (4x125MW), which would come up at   in Nanajanad village in the Nilgiris.

 This is a pumped storage hydro-electric project, a first of its kind in the Nilgiris, unlike conventional hydro projects. The surplus energy available during off-peak time is to be utilised for pumping water from the lower reservoir to the upper reservoir and the water will be utilised for power generation during peak time. The project is estimated to cost Rs 1,850 crore.
 
 Under the project, Tangedco’s   and Avalanche-Emerald reservoirs in the district would be utilised as the upper and lower reservoirs respectively, according to Gunanan, executive engineer, Tangedco. He said, “An underground power house is proposed to house four units of 125MW each, which can be reached by means of an underground tunnel. There is no use of surface area in this project and it is totally eco-friendly.”
 
 Pumped storage hydro-electric project was first installed in   at Kadamparai in 1984.
 
 And the Kundha pumped storage hydro-electric project is the second of its kind in Tamil Nadu. Porthimund and Avalanche-Emerald reservoirs in the Nilgiris were established in 1965.
 
 “In conventional method, power is generated from particles of running water. In pumped storage hydro-electric system, power is generated from the upper reservoir while there is demand for supply. While there is surplus power in the grid, water is pumped up to the upper reservoir,” Gunanan said, adding, “The available structures in the Nilgiris is utilised for power generation.”
 
 Funded majorly by Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), the project is likely to be completed by 2022. “With 500MW capacity, the project could generate 1095 million units of power in addition in a month,” the official said.
 
 While Rs 1,460 is funded by REC, the balance will be borne by Tangedco. “Within 6-8 years the cost of establishment could be recovered,” the official said. 
 
 
