Mangaluru: Mayor Kavitha Sanil on Wednesday came down heavily on the officials of Mangaluru City Corporation for not translating her directives into action. This has resulted in MCC not meeting revenue targets under various heads including property tax, which in turn has affected the ability of the civic body to make payments to contractors. Revenue shortfall against budget estimates is affecting delivery of services, she added. Chairing the general meeting of the council of the MCC, Kavitha replying to a query by Premananda Shetty, former leader of the opposition on revenue collections and delay in payment to contractors, said pending dues under property tax and water bills for the fiscal amounted to nearly Rs 70 crore. Her suggestion that corporators across party lines must evince interest in helping mop up these dues sparked off a verbal battle between the ruling Congress and the opposition BJP. A visibly agitated mayor reminded the council that her writ alone does not carry weight and it is upto the officials to act on her directives. “Even when I direct the officials to disconnect water supply to major defaulters, they do not act on it. The same is the case with trade license dues and any other major head of revenue,” the mayor said.  “I cannot drag the officials from their houses and get them to act for they have to discharge their duties,” she said. Commissioner Mohammad Nazeer said the problem with revenue is that the mismatch between the budget estimates and actual recoveries under respective heads. Normally there is 20-25% variation in the estimates and the actual receipts, he said. The other issue is that most of the revenue payments happen in the last month of the fiscal and this is where the gap is bridged, he said, adding the corporation has to do a fine balancing act in the interim adjusting payments to stakeholders. The process of demonetization saw MCC achieve 96% receipts in property tax against projection and around Rs 36 crore in water bills during 2016-17. MCC as on December 31, 2017, collected Rs 23.87 crore from supply of water and expects revenue of Rs 26.54 crore against projected revenue till the end of this fiscal, he said. The bulk payments in March will help the civic body bring down payments to contractors from 9 months to around three months, he added.