BENGALURU: Barely two months after a man stabbed   P   multiple times in his office chamber in MS Building, a woman carrying a knife was intercepted by cops on duty at the building’s entrance on Thursday. The woman was later arrested and remanded in judicial custody.

 
 Cops were alerted when the newly installed door-frame metal detector beeped when the woman, clad in a sari, attempted to pass through at 11.30 am. Women police pulled her aside and conducted a search. They discovered the knife hidden inside a file she was carrying. Justice Shetty was in his chamber when the woman was detained.
 
 Senior police, including Chandragupta, deputy commissioner of police (central), quickly arrived on the scene and escorted the woman, said to be 55 years old, to   police station located in the same building. Sources say the woman was questioned for seven hours before she was arrested and produced in a local court.
 
 Police are perplexed with the contents of the file she was carrying. “It contained some papers in which she has written names of politicians, bureaucrats and government officials, accusing them of different offences,” police said. “She claims she has been frequently visiting the   for the past four years. Efforts are on to trace her family. We will know her motive only after further investigation.”
 
 She has been booked under IPC sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 423 (dishonest or fraudulent execution of deed of transfer containing false statement of consideration) On March 7, Justice Shetty was stabbed by  , a complainant, who casually walked into his chamber. The door-frame metal detector wasn’t working and had been out of order for months. Shetty was taken to Mallya hospital where he underwent surgeries and was treated for a week. Justice Shetty returned to work on April 23 — 46 days later. Immediately after that attack, security was beefed up and a new doorframe metaldetector was installed.
 
 
