KOCHI: The Patriarch Day celebrations and a faith declaration convention of the   became a show of strength of the community, as over a lakh of the community members thronged the ground near the Kaloor stadium at Kochi on Sunday. No of our churches would be handed over to the Orthodox faction, said Catholicos Baselios Thomas I, the head of the   in India, while addressing the meet. 

 The crowd went into a frenzy as the patriarch of Antioch and All the East, and the supreme leader of the universal   Ignatius Aphrem II through a video message greeted them in Malayalam. "Antiochia Malankara Bandham Neenal Vazhattte (Long live the bond between Antioch and Malankara)," he repeated three times as the crowd repeated it in a display of strength of the community and its allegiance to Antioch.
 
 The patriarch in the message said that though the Jacobite church celebrates the Patriarch Day every year, it achieved extreme significance in the aftermath of the injustice done to the community recently. 
 
 "The celebrations this year carries a special significance in line of the injustice brought upon the church resulting from the attempt to resolve the issues using unchristian means. Therefore, your gathering today to express your love and loyalty to the throne of Antioch is like the resistance to the Portuguese at the Koonan Kurishu," the Patriarch said in the message.
 
 "We appreciate the community's loyalty to Antioch. The community is very near and dear to us and we love you like the apple of our eyes," said the Patriarch.
 
 Apart from Catholicos Baselios Thomas I, George Al Khoury, patriarchal vicar to Belgium and Luxemburg, representative of the patriarch from the Malankara Archdiocese of North America, Eldho mar Titus addressed the crowd.
 
 According to officials reports at least 70,000 persons had gathered at the stadium ground by Sunday afternoon. Church officials put the number beyond that claiming a participation of over a lakh.
 
 Earlier, the chairman of the gathering Joseph Mar Gregorious had slammed the orthodox faction using strong words. 
 
 UDF convener P P Thankachan and CPM Ernakulam district secretary P Rajeeve also attended the meeting.
 
 In November 2017, the Supreme Court had intervened for the fourth time in the century-old dispute between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the   dismissing the review petitions filed by the Jacobites against the SC's July 3 verdict allowing the Orthodox group to conduct administration and prayers in around 1,400 churches - including the famous Kolenchery St Peter's and St Paul's Church - contested between it and the Jacobite faction. Earlier, both factions were running the day-to-day affairs of the churches amidst fights for ownership.
 
 
