Akshay Kumar, who has always worn his patriotism on his sleeve, appealed to Delhiites to raise funds for martyrs at the launch of the Bharat Ke Veer anthem at Teen Murti Bhawan on Saturday. "I'll do anything to raise fund for Bharat ke veer," he said. And within a few minutes, the attendees contributed a total of Rs12.93 crore to the Bharat Ke Veer fund.

 
  
  YOU HAVE OUR GRATITUDE:   and Home Minister   with a family member of a martyr
 
 
 
 The anthem, sung by  , left everyone teary-eyed, and Home Minister Rajnath Singh even embraced Kher after it was played. On Kailash's request, Akshay also sang the anthem with him. In attendance were senior officials of the paramilitary forces, family members of martyrs and many from Delhi’s corporate elite.
 
 
  
  Kailash Kher and Rajnath Singh share a hug, (right) Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, MoS, Home Affairs (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 On the stage, Akshay said, "After listening to the anthem, I'm speechless." He then asked the audience to come forward and contribute. "I'm ready to dance, sing, or do anything that you want me to do. Let's raise funds for the families of martyrs," he said, adding, "Rajnath Singh has told you that we have to come to ask for everybody's help for Bharat Ke Veer. I'm requesting everybody to contribute to this initiative. Whoever wants to contribute can raise their hand, I’ll come to you." And within 10 minutes, the corporate bigwigs of the capital had contributed a total of Rs 12.93 crore to the fund. Akshay said, "Dilli waakai dil walon ki hai." 
 
 
  
  
 
 Kailash added, "Maine aap mein se kai logon ke yahan gaana gaya hai, aur aaj mujhe pata chala ki aapka dil kitna bada hai."
 
 
  
  Kiren Rijiju, MoS, Home Affairs felicitates a family member of a martyr
 
 
 
 Akshay also appealed to the Home Minister to extend help to those injured on the battlefield and battling disabilities. The HM nodded in approval. 
 
 
  
  RR Bhatnagar, DG, CRPF and OP Singh, DGP, UP-designate
 
 
 
 
 Kiren Rijiju, MoS, Home Affairs, launched the Bharat Ke Veer anthem and recalled how, after listening to Kailash Kher in concert, he had thought his voice would be perfect for it. Rajnath Singh was so impressed with the anthem that he gave a standing ovation to Kailash Kher and hugged him. But what came as a surprise to him was the graphic novel Bharat Ke Veer. Singh said, "I had no idea that this book was also supposed to be launched today. I can't tell you how glad I am to see it." He also said that the  's target is to raise at least one crore for every martyr's kin.
 
 
  
  Alok Ram Patoria, ADG, Headquarters, CISF 
 Abhishek Trivedi, IG, NSG
 
 
 
  and   hosted the event. Talking about the initiative, Puneet said, "I used to hear news about soldiers killed in attacks and feel sad about it. But when I met Amit Lodha (DIG, BSF), who's a friend from my IIT days, in Jaisalmer, he told me about the Bharat Ke Veer initiative. We thought of doing our bit for it."
 
 
  
   , Home Secretary and Ajit Doval, National Security Advisor 
 
 
 
 A short film on Bharat Ke Veer was also launched at the event.
 
 
  
  Puneet Dalmia
 
 
 
 
