BENGALURU: Blackbucks, the endangered species which is in news after the conviction of Bollywood actor Salman Khan for hunting them in Jodhpur, Rajasthan, are facing an altogether different challenge in Karnataka.

 The blackbucks, which mostly survive on fresh shoots of grass and various plants, are being deprived of fodder as their grassland habitats are fast turning into jungles. This is forcing the antelopes to invade agricultural fields, sometimes putting their lives at risk.
 
 Karnataka is home to about 10,000 blackbucks, most of them in the two protected areas of Ranebennur (7,000) of Haveri district and Madhugiri (550),   district.
 
 Eucalyptus and acacia saplings planted in the habitats of blackbucks many years ago, in the name of afforestation, have become a threat to the species today, says wildlife expert  . “In Jayamangali Blackbuck Conservation Reserve for instance, blackbucks are forced to cover long distances outside the protected area in search of fodder and there are cases of them losing way and risking road kills and other dangers,” he added.
 
 Poaching not a problem
 
 Raghavendra Rao, assistant conservator of forests, who has worked extensively in Ranebennur Blackbuck Sanctuary, says there isn’t much of a poaching problem as blackbucks are protected under the Wildlife Act.
 
 “Though these animals raid crops in search of food, locals don’t target them but only seek compensation from the department. Steps have to be taken to restore their natural habitat and efforts are on in this regard. Apart from the two famous sanctuaries, blackbucks are also found in Koppal, Gadag,   and Chitradurga districts,” he adds.
 
 B N Nagaraju, range forest officer under Tumakuru division, said they have decided to remove eucalyptus trees in Jayamangali sanctuary to restore the habitat for blackbucks. “We will be sowing five types of plant seeds that will provide fodder for these antelopes. This way, they don’t have to venture out,” he adds.
 
 The forest department also plans to develop a blackbuck conservation reserve at   and   villages in Chamarajanagar district, where the animal is seen in good numbers.
 
 
  
 
