PUNE:   this year was something of a paradox in the age of global  . It was the   January since 2012, but this winter was the fourth warmest the last 117  . 

 With a 0.31°C drop in average night temperature, January 2018 was the coldest in six years. According to data from the India Meteorological Department, 2011, 2012 and 2018 gave us the coldest opening months of the year in the last decade.
 
 
  
 In fact, according to IMD’s head of climate monitoring and analysis, A K Kulkarni, this was something of an anomaly as in the last two decades, the average minimum temperature has displayed a tendency to increase. “Since 1999, the average minimum temperature in January has been on the rise,” Kulkarni said.
 
 However, the portion of winter from January to February was th e fourth warmest on record since 1901. “Both winter months combined — January and February 2018 — were fourth warmest in terms of average maximum temperature, and fifth warmest if the mean temperature (average of maximum and minimum) is considered,“ Srivastava further added.
 
 Srivastava attributed the drop in night temperature this January to relatively cloudless skies. “That is why there has been a drop in the average minimum temperature, while the average maximum temperature rose due to the effect of solar radiation. Data tells us that 2016, 2017 and 2018 have seen temperatures progressively increase,” he said. 
 
 ”Even though there has been a warming trend with an increase in the average maximum temperature during winter, there was a drop in average minimum temperature this January this year because of the cold air advection from the mid latitudes. Meanwhile the average maximum temperature rose because of solar heating and clear skies,” explained J R Kulkarni, retired meteorologist and All India Internet Weather Radio Station founder.
 
 In the third week of January, Shimla saw its first snowfall of the year, even as Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh witnessed less-than-average winter rain and snowfall activity.
 
 Another IMD official, meanwhile, said that there were only two or three spells of rain and good snowfall from January to February. “There were two spells (overall) in January and one in February. On the whole, the number of such spells this winter season was less-than-average,” the official said.
 
 In December, TOI had reported that December-February temperatures were likely to be above normal in almost all regions in the country as La Nina was predicted to have little impact on winter.
 
 While predicting above normal maximum and minimum temperatures in most sub-divisions, IMD had said that temperatures may however be cooler than last year's winter as the current period does not have an El Nino situation brewing over the Pacific.
 
 La Nina is believed to make winter colder than average unlike El Nino but the cold could be offset by   warming signals. Night temperatures too were predicted to see a similar trend. 
 
 However, for the better part of December, the winter chill had been missing.
 
 At one point, the city's lowest temperature had soared to an unusual 21.1°C on — almost nine degrees above normal and the highest since October. Such a temperature reading is usually seen in the summer and monsoon months.
 
 An IMD official had said that such minimum temperatures are usually witnessed in summer and monsoon seasons. 
 
 He surmised that a recent cyclonic storm had caused significant moisture incursion and clouding in the state. While the maximum temperature in Pune remained low, the minimum remained high
 
 
