Vijayawada: For a change, teachers became students at the Principals’ Seminar, organised by the Times of India’s Newspaper in Education at a city hotel here on Friday. The one-day seminar was attended by principals form over 100 private and government schools.

 Speakers at the seminar, where one of the topics of discussion was ‘Enriching Skills by Promoting Critical Learning’, appealed to the teaching community to convert classrooms into centres of creativity and innovation. The speakers also emphasised on the need to reduce the role of teachers in the classroom by increasing the role of the students. The students should be guided to learn from participation rather than just listen to lectures, they stressed.
 
 The seminar was inaugurated by Krishna district collector B Lakshmikantham, who said the youth power today plays a key role in shaping the country’s future. However, the youth lack proper skills to contribute to the development of the society as they would have liked. Stating that skill is a short form of sustainable knowledge in lifelong learning, the collector urged people to keep learning every second, and fruitfully utilise the 86,400 seconds of a day.
 
 He wanted teachers to develop skills in communication, language, time management and set an aim in life, adding that that aim in their lives has to start from the classrooms. “Those who do things with their head and heart can achieve remarkable and unimaginable success in life,” he said.
 
 He also wanted the schools to give stress on creative learning and introduce skill-oriented curriculum to help the students reach their set goals. “Be an optimist and try to utilise every opportunity that knocks at your door to be successful and strong in life,” he said, adding that “success is when one’s signature becomes an autograph” and urged people to achieve success by being creative with a clear target in mind.
 
 Krishna University vice-chancellor Prof S Ramakrishna said schools play a key role in nation-building as they send leaders to the society. “Schools are responsible for creating future leaders of the country,” he said, and thanked his teachers for shaping him what he is today. He said a person’s future is shaped in the schools and appealed to the teachers to be more responsible and have a visionary outlook.
 
 Management consultant Prof M C Das, who is also a former lecturer of Andhra Loyola College, wanted teachers to understand that children are clean and open and whatever they become as they grow up depended on how they spent their time in the classroom. He wanted the classrooms to be more student-friendly where the student is given an opportunity to learn by working rather than by listening.
 
 Gudlavalleru Engineering College ELT Centre director Prof P Ramanujam wanted the principals to convert classrooms into interactive and creative centres. Even to meet the syllabus schedule, he suggested that teachers organise group activities on the subject in the classrooms with the students’ involvement and active participation for easy learning.
 
 
