PUNE: City’s residents celebrated Holi in a riot of colour on Friday but refrained from wasting water.

 The streets appeared multi-hued in a patchwork of colours. Even bikes and cars were not spared. Every form of colour: powder, paste, colour-confetti ruled the streets on Friday as the city came together to celebrate Holi.
 
 Shivani Mirajkar, a resident of Sinhagad Road, agreed to be a part of Holi celebration but on one condition – ‘no use of water’.
 
 “Of course, Holi is much more fun with water and water guns. However, we also need to consider the crisis we face every year. If people want to avoid situation like Cape Town, it is high time that we stopped wasting water,” said Mirajkar.
 
 She said most housing societies too have taken initiative to discourage members from wasting water.
 
 For   (38), the first half of Friday was spent running with packets of colours behind her children and then running away when they chased her. The second half of the day was spent in cleaning the house.
 
 “Despite being a long weekend, my husband and I decided to be home and let the kids play Holi. We played using natural colours and once we ran out of them, we used turmeric powder. In my family, chemical colours are a big no as they affect the skin and cause illness,” said Khadage, a resident of Kharadi.
 
 She added that playing ‘dry’ Holi was an obvious choice as they suffer from water shortage during summer.
 
 There were a few who threw all caution to the winds and got drenched in Holi revelry.
 
 Vardhaman Bharde (23) played Holi with his gang of 16 friends for six hours, tearing each other’s shirts and dumping them in barrels of water.
 
 “It is just a matter of a day. Moreover, we have been playing Holi with water all our lives,” he said.
 
 Several organisations across the city used the festival to promote several social causes. Former deputy mayor Aba Bagul sent water tankers to Katraj-based non-governmental organisation, Mamata Foundation.
 
 “During the onset of summer, the NGO struggles to find sufficient water for drinking. Therefore, for the past eight years, we have been providing them with water tankers," said Bagul's son, Amit.
 
 
 
 
 Several initiatives were also undertaken during Holika Dahan. Biospheres, an organisation working for conservation of biodiversity in association with Pune Municipal Corporation, held a weed bonfire. Sachin Punekar, founder of Biospheres, said that the bonfire for Holika Dahan is usually built using wood from native trees. However, to avoid cutting of trees, the organisation built a bonfire from alien weeds that are harmful for the growth of native plants.
 
 The Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti appealed to the people to reduce pollution by building smaller bonfires. With the tagline ‘Holi lahan kara, poli daan kara’, the organisation distributed 1,200 puran polis to beggars and passengers at the railway station.
 
 In the backdrop of ongoing controversy regarding Empress Garden, members of Sakhali Peer Talim Rashtriya Maruti Mandir presented Suresh Pingale, honorary secretary of the   with a 12-feet tall Banyan tree. 
 
 
