Vijayawada: Heat wave and sudden increase in temperatures are claiming hundreds of lives in Andhra Pradesh every year and so plantation drives and reduction of pollution are being given priority in capital city Amaravati, said MV Seshagiri Babu, managing director of Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (APSDMA).

 Speaking at a two-day national workshop on ‘preparedness, mitigation and management of heat wave’ organised by APSDMA in city on Wednesday, Babu said they are focused on preparing an action plan to tackle the   in the coming summer months.
 
 As part of the state’s special measures, district collectors and concerned officials will be given advanced alerts. “We are monitoring the climatic changes from 1,168 weather stations across the state and we are trying to involve various departments to divide the work. The aim of the plan is to save human as well as cattle from the extreme temperatures,” said Babu.
 
 National Disaster Management Department joint secretary Dr V Murugappa said international practices must be adopted to minimise deaths, adding that changes in climatic conditions and increase in temperatures are the main reasons for the heatwave. We are closely monitoring such drastic changes in temperatures, he said.
 
 National Disaster Management Authority member RK Jain said representatives of 175 countries participated in the international conference held in Japan in 2015, where heatwave conditions were discussed in detail. “Various countries have shared their best practices in the management of heatwave conditions and such meetings help us learn about good practices,” said Jain.
 
 Dr Raja Shri Kothari, associate professor of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (Nagpur) said heat wave conditions are intense at urban areas compared to villages and many 0studies show that pollutants and industrial gases are increasing temperatures.
 
 Delegates from 17 states across India, members of National Disaster Authority and professors of various universities participated on the first day of the workshop.
 
 
