"Ithilippo etha thinnuva?” asked a wide-eyed Narayaniyamma from Puthiyara in her Kozhikodan dialect, never having seen so many dishes together in all her life. Along with her grandson, she was paying a visit to the food fest organised recently at the Kozhikode beach that brought together cuisines and culinary practices of various communities that have been an integral part of Malabar.

 Her grandson had no such doubts. He took her to the Bohra food stall and ordered a plate of ‘laal biryani’. Narayaniyamma had never tasted it in her 70 years and quipped, “This tastes nice. I thought that Malabar biryani meant only the Thalassery biryani of Mappilas.” 
 
 The four-day food fest organised on the sidelines of the   saw an amalgamation of delectable authentic delicacies of Malabar, making it amply clear that Malabar cuisine did not begin and end with Thalassery biryani, unnakaya and chatti pathiri which have now become ubiquitous throughout the state. “I had always associated Malabar with Thalassery dum biryani but now I know that Malabar is a melting pot of cultures and home to various communities including Anglo Indians, Bohras, Bhatkalis, Gowda Saraswat Brahmins, Konkani Christians — that too, one group from Goa and another from Mangalore. While Goan Konkanis have Portuguese ancestry, Mangalorean Konkanis have Dutch lineage. Importantly, every community has their own authentic food,” said Thyagarajan S from Chennai, a food researcher. 
 
 In this fest, cuisines of eleven of the recorded 30 communities in Malabar were served. Designer Nasseb and his sister Aysha Mahmood, who are part of a core group who came up with the idea of such a festival, are overwhelmed by the people’s response. “We have tried to bring in communities from Paniya, the original tribe of Malabar, to Bhatkalis, the descendants of mariners and merchants from Turkey, Saudi Arabia and Persia. There are many more including Parsis, Kutchi Memens and Kalazis,” said Aysha. 
 
 For many, it came as a revelation that the famous staple breakfast item puttu is a contribution of the Theeya community. Shameena Sasikumar who rustled up Theeya dishes along with a few of her friends showed how the humble tapioca can taste differently in different hands and how biryani can be improvised to suit different palates.
 
 The Gowda Saraswats made their community members prepare a dish each at their homes and bring it to the fest. They were also sporting enough to have their stalls opposite to the Anglo Indians who brought their beef and pork.
 
 The dishes that garnered the most attention included Puliyurumbu Chamanthi and Kaatu Njandu Chuttathu from the Paniyas and Pork vindaloo and Braised Ox tongue from Goa-Mangalorean Konkanis. 
 
 “Here, everybody is eating everybody else’s food,” said Naseema MC, a teacher. “At the time of rising intolerance, what else but food can unite us?”
 
