HYDERABAD: Several teachers’ organizations on Tuesday condemned the Telangana government’s decision to make invigilators accountable for any copying taking place under their watch and advised teachers on invigilation duties to not sign on any such declaration.

 They asked the director of government examination (DGE) to immediately cancel the order and advised teachers to ask to be relieved from invigilation duties if they are pressurized to sign the declaration.
 
 “The announcement of such instructions has resulted in unnecessary panic among teachers. The DGE should immediately cancel the order as it is insulting for teachers,” said   B, general secretary, Progressive Recognized Teacher's Union Telangana State.
 
 Teachers further said that if the government does not trust teachers with examination duties they should outsource the job to third parties.
 
 “When there are sitting squads, flying squads, chief superintendents, departmental officers, how come they are only making the invigilator responsible for any instances of copying. What will the others do? It’s not fair to make only invigilators responsible for copying taking place in a centre,” said   M, president, Telangana Progressive Teachers’ Federation.
 
 Teachers said they do not mind if the government takes action in case of organized or mass copying or in situations where it is proved that the invigilator helped the students on purpose, but blaming them for individual cases is unfair.
 
 Child rights activists too supported the teachers and said that they should not be made responsible for someone else’s mistake.
 
 On March 9, the DGE of exams, vide a circular, said that that DEOs/ MEOs (district/mandal education officers) and invigilators will be personally held accountable for any copying that takes place at any centre under their jurisdiction and disciplinary action will be initiated against them for the same.
 
 The DEOs/MEOs were also instructed to register complaints against both, the examiner at the centres and the students indulging in copying, under the Telangana Public Examination Act (Act No 25 of 1997).
 
