PATNA: The state tourism department is contemplating introduction of a mobile app-based prepaid taxi service in Patna on the lines of private taxi agencies.

 “If finalized, the service will be started in partnership with a private agency. It will also have global positioning system (GPS) to track the taxi,”   (BSTDC) managing director and tourism department’s joint secretary Inayat Khan said on Monday.
 
 Sources said once the idea is executed, people would charter taxis for movement in city as well as outstation journey. “The private taxi agencies have different rates for peak hours and late night travel. They also charge if the taxi is stuck up in traffic or asked to wait for sometime. As a government initiative, we have to contemplate the rates feasibility and the best way to provide service,” a tourism department official said.
 
 As of now, only   operates mobile app-based taxi service while another agency has only a GPS tracking system but no app. The rest are taxis run by travel agencies with no GPS.
 
 Some residents said they would trust a government-run app-based taxi service more than any private agency. “If there is an app to track the movement of a taxi run by the government, I will definitely opt for that. From the safety point of view, I feel it will be far more dependable,” said Neha Kumari, a private schoolteacher. 
 
 However, such government initiatives in the past have mostly failed. Chief minister   had launched 50 taxis on the occasion of   in 2011. The airconditioned taxis fitted with state-of-the-art technologies, including GPS, tamper-proof electronic meters, debit/credit card payment machines and panic button were being operated by private agencies in public- private partnership mode with BSTDC. However, the taxi service is no more available.
 
 
 
 State tourism department is to start online booking for its transport services. “As of now, people have to visit the office of the tourism department to book vehicles and make the payment. We are trying to start providing the service on e-payment and e-booking from the official website from April 1,” Inayat Khan said. 
 
 
