THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government is likely to put up resistance against the UGC’s latest notification which obliterated the role of the government and universities in taking decision on granting autonomy to higher education institutions.

 As per the   regulation dated February 12, 2018, the government’s permission is not mandatory for educational institutions that seek autonomous status. If the colleges meet the prescribed standards, neither the government, nor the university to which the institution is affiliated to, could prevent the institution from becoming autonomous. In short, the UGC notification is a blow to the LDF government’s position against autonomous status to higher education institutions.
 
 
 The government is supposed to nominate its representatives to various bodies of the autonomous college. However, if the government and the university fail to do so, the UGC will fill the vacancies with its nominees. The government should continue to provide grant to colleges in government and aided sector as in the past. If the university fails to forward the application for autonomy to the UGC in 30 days, it would be presumed that the university has no objection to the application. To avoid delay, the applicants should send an advance copy of the application to the UGC.
 
 As per the notification, arts and science colleges, engineering and MBA intuitions in government, aided and selffinancing sectors are eligible to seek autonomy. Higher education institutions with ‘A’ grade   accreditation or the   ( ) for at least three programmes are eligible to apply for autonomous status.
 
 “If the autonomous college has obtained a score of 3.51 and above on a 4 point scale from the   or a minimum score of 750 individually or a corresponding accreditation grade/score from a UGC empanelled accreditation agency at the time of application shall be considered for grant of autonomous status without onsite visit by the expert committee,” says the UGC notification.
 
 “I’m not against autonomy. Academy autonomy to competent institutions is welcome. But the UGC notification, which took away the discretionary powers of the university and the government could only pose danger. The government and the universities will have to come out with counter strategies to get rid of the dangers of the liberal policy on autonomy,” said   vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal.
 
 An urgent meeting of state higher education council meeting is scheduled on February 20 to discuss the fallout of the notification and its possible impact on higher education sector in Kerala.
 
 The UGC notification came at a time when the state higher education council has appointed a committee to study the functioning of autonomous institutions in the state. According to the council, there were several complaints against the functioning of 19 colleges to which autonomy was granted by the former   government. “Even if the government and universities try to defy the UGC, they are unlikely to prevent eligible colleges from getting autonomous status. In the wake of a legal tussle, the UGC norms will prevail upon the state/university policies,” sources said
 
