GREATER NOIDA: Police in Noida were involved in five encounters and shootouts in 15 hours from Sunday morning, killing one murder accused and arresting seven persons named in a slew of criminal cases.

 The   took place around 6.30am on Sunday, when a Noida crime branch team gunned down Shravan Chaudhury, named in 14 cases, including murder, in Phase 3 area. An hour later, Dankaur police arrested two persons fleeing with a stolen truck after an exchange of fire in Jaganpur . The accused — Sambhal residents Asrat and Saleem — were shot in the legs and admitted to the district hospital.
 
 “They opened fire at the police team. The police fired too. Fearing arrest, the four jumped off the vehicle and tried to flee,” Noida SSP Ajay Pal Sharma said. The police team fired at the fleeing suspects, hitting two of them. 
 
 On the  , three persons named in several cases — Pradeep Raghav, Saurabh Chaudhury and Umesh Singh — were arrested after a gunfight on Saturday night. A country-made revolver, one cartridge, two knives, nine mobile phones, Rs 2,000 and a stolen bike were recovered from their possession, the police said.
 
 Around the same time on Saturday, a Bulandshahr resident carrying a Rs 25,000 reward on his head was arrested in Dadri after a brief exchange of fire. The police said Jitendra was going from Sector Omicron to Dadri on a bike. The fifth shootout took place in Kasna on Sunday evening. The police said Dinesh, a Bulandshahr resident who carried a Rs 25,000 reward in connection with a robbery case, was travelling on a bike when he was asked to stop near the LG roundabout. “Instead of stopping, he opened fire and tried to escape. The police team fire back and he was hit in the leg,” an officer said. 
 
 The police said that in all the cases, they had fired at the suspects only after being shot at and stressed such crackdown would continue over the next few weeks. 
 
 Prashant Kumar, ADG (Meerut zone), said: “We have adopted a zero tolerance towards criminals. We will take action against them over the next few weeks.”
 
 
