

 Since all passenger and freight vehicles run on diesel, its price was always regulated. However, petrol is more environment friendly than diesel and so cess has been made higher on diesel now. We were able to get diesel at a lower price earlier because we were not so conscious of the environment. Also, high-end diesel cars started hitting the market, beating the purpose of the diesel subsidy. Big car manufacturers started getting these benefits.
 
 
 
 It was around 2002 that it started becoming an international trend to privatise everything, as part of globalisation. All our necessities which were in public sector started getting privatised. At the same time, the number of vehicles on the road increased unprecedentedly and the oil pool account (formed in 1972 to regulate the prices of oil globally) started becoming a burden for the Centre’s budget. That was why the   government decided to leave the determination of oil prices to the market, in 2002. 
 
 
 
 I would say go to the website of the petroleum department and check the real figures. Figures in WhatsApp forwards and untrustworthy news websites can be misleading. As of January 17, crude oil price in the international market is `26.13. If the price of petrol is `70 or `80, the rest is all central and state government taxes plus the oil marketing companies’ share. Also, for every litre of diesel or petrol, the pump gets `3.59 as commission. 
 
 
 
 It all depends on the government. Gulf countries reduced the availability of oil, which is a reason why the prices have hiked. It might go up again but at one point, there will be international pressure to lower it. But in India, it will also depend on government policies. It might go upto `90 or `100 and then come down by the next elections.
 
 
 
 From the economist’s point of view, these are convincing but some questions remain unanswered still which the governments should answer. Why are the governments imposing such a high amount of taxes? The reasoning about the diesel subsidy is very clear but can’t another system be devised wherein public transport and freight traffic be given the subsidy but not the others? Why should 95% of the population suffer a lack of subsidy for the sake of 5%?
 
 
 
 
