CHANDIGARH: Are you a startup and looking for space, angel investors and good advice? With facilities galore, the   have a lot to offer. From space to expert opinion on how to connect with angel investors,   have become one-stop centre for the startups. Not limiting to provide space, added advantage of the incubators in the Tricity is that they also have mentors for expert advice.

 While some incubation centres provide man and machine support charging some fixed amount on their services, there are others that don’t charge startups anything other than  .
 
 The incubation centre of Society for the Promotion of IT in Chandigarh earlier used to operate from Punjab Engineering College campus. However, it was later shifted to Entrepreneurship Development Cell (EDC) on January 1, 2017. The incubation centre has a space of 10,000 sq ft and has both furnished and unfurnished cubicles. For the furnished cubicles, the centre charges Rs 50 per sq ft and Rs 40 per sq ft is charged for the unfurnished ones. The charges also include Rs 10 for housekeeping and security and Rs 10 for electricity every day. Currently, the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) incubation centre has six startups enrolled with it and three are in the process.
 
 “When the startups come to us, they have only 3-4 people. But when they leave, they have a team of around 70 people. We provide them space for around three years and when their turnover reaches in crores, we ask them to leave so that the new ventures can be facilitated,” said Anil Parashar, head of Society for the Promotion of IT in Chandigarh (SPIC).
 
 The technology business incubator (TBI) at Chandigarh University is open for all and has not restricted its facilities to students only. The TBI is spread across 50,000 sq ft and is fully air-conditioned. They don’t charge anything except monthly internet facility of Rs 1,000 for all, including outsiders. The TBI was set up in 2015 with five startups and now the incubator has 17 startups availing the facility.
 
 “We are open for all and have not restricted ourselves to the students only. We also organize talks and teach startups as to how to connect with the angel investors, how to apply for loans, what all schemes are available for the financial support to the startups and how to avail benefit from the university fund,” says Prabhdeep Singh, head of the department of the journalism and mass communication department, who trains the startups how to communicate with the investors and how to make a strong pitch. The TBI at Chandigarh University provides office space, conference halls and is equipped with audio-visual set up for presentations.
 
 When the Entrepreneurship and Incubation Cell (EIC) came up at Punjab Engineering College (PEC), the incubation centre received 35 ideas and now this year so far, they have received 90.
 
 Sudhendhu Bali, head of the incubation centre at PEC, terms the increase in number of ideas as growth. However, Bali says PEC encourages IPled innovation and startups. “One of the greatest advantages of the startups in and around Tricity is that they have many markets to test.   and Rajpura have not been tested yet. Startups have ample opportunities,” Bali says, adding that PEC encouraged its students to have IP-led startups that had less chances of failing.
 
 PEC provides incubation facility to students only. The technology business incubator is spread across 50,000 sq ft and is fully air-conditioned. They don’t charge anything except for monthly electricity expense of Rs 1,000.
 
 
 
