CHENNAI:   and   are looking at joint search and rescue excerise and friendly visits to the ports as part of efforts to strength the bilateral ties. A   Coast Guard training ship Badaro reached Chennai on Monday to take part in a joint exercise - Sahyog –Hyeoblyeog 2018 - which will be held on April 5. 

 Indian Coast Guard’s five ships including Shaurya, Rani Abbakka and Abheek, one Dornier plane and one Chetak helicopter will take part in the joint exercise. The exercise will include scenarios of the hijacking of a merchant vessel and its subsequent rescue, interdiction of a pirate vessel, cross boarding, external fire fighting and the SAR (search and rescue) demonstration.
 
 Lee Young Ho, head reprepresentative of the Korean delegation, held a discussion with a team of   officers led by deputy inspector general Al Mutahar on board the ship, and said: “This is the third visit of the ship after a MoU was signed between the countries. The main aim is to strengthen the relations between the countries.” 
 
 He said at the discusion that India played an important role in maritime security as all ships that sail to Europe pass by India. “Close cooperation between the countries is important for economic safety of the region,” he added.
 
 Consul General of Korea in Chennai Kim Hyung Tae said that Korea and India were maritime countries and that there were so many opportunities for cooperation. “The relations between the countries are strengthening. This year a VIP will be visiting India to further the cooperation.” 
 
 During the ship’s stay in Chennai, the delegation from Korea will call on dignitaries in Chennai, play a friendly volley ball match between the   personnel and will take part in other traditional activities like Jianzi, Yunnori, Tuho and Bhopgi. The match will be on Tuesday while a social interaction between the personnel of both the Coast Guard has been arranged on April 4. 
 
 The joint exercise is a part of the ongoing cooperative arrangements between the two coast guards since the past 12 years and as a part of the memorandum on cooperation signed by Indian and Korean Coast Guard in 2004. 
 
 Director general Indian Coast Guard Rajendra Singh and Korean Coast Guard commissioner general KCG Park Kyung Min will be in Chennai to oversee the joint exercise.
 
 
