AGARTALA: The CPM, which has ruled Tripura continuously for the last 25 years, has for the first time added the word 'akhand' or 'undivided' to its poll slogan of 'peace, harmony, unity, development'. The BJP, meanwhile, is fielding questions on its alliance with Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT), a party that until very recently sought to carve out a separate state of Twipraland or Tipraland for tribals who comprise 33% of Tripura's population but are spread over two-thirds of its geographical area. 

 The alliance has thrown up a number of questions, both for BJP and IPFT, and has given a poll plank to the Left Front government battling anti-incumbency and corruption charges. The saffron party, known to favour the creation of smaller states, has stressed on the fact that it does not support Tipraland and will grant more autonomy for tribals if voted to power. But many feel that unless the modalities of the autonomy are clearly stated, the secession bogey that has held Tripura in the grip of violent insurgency for decades may come back to haunt BJP. With 20 of the 60 assembly seats here being reserved for tribals, the fraught matter of greater tribal autonomy can decide the outcome of the polls.
 
 "The IPFT is nothing but a divisive force. By allying with it, BJP has hurt the majority Bengali sentiment. Its effect will be felt in the polls," said  , CPM spokesperson. "A tribal autonomous council - Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) - already exists. What does BJP mean by more autonomy?" he asked.
 
 While demands for self-determination for tribals were raised from the 1960s and the autonomous council formed in 1979, the movement for Tipraland, which aims for a separate tribal state covering the present area of TTAADC or around 7 lakh square km of the state's 10 lakh sq km, gained momentum in the 1990s. It is not a united movement. The IPFT backs it but another influential tribal group -   - does not. The militant movement supporting secession has been crushed. Mainstream parties such as CPM and opposition Congress also do not support the creation of a separate state. Neither, as BJP leaders stress, does the saffron party.
 
 "The TTAADC has no real power. It is dependent on the government for everything. It does not even have its own police. If voted to power, we will set up a committee to look into tribal grievances. If we find them strong enough, we will grant more autonomy to tribals and empower the tribal council," said BJP's state president  . The BJP will contest 51 seats and IPFT, 9 ST-reserved seats.
 
 A leader of the CPM's tribal wing - Tripura Rajya Upajati Ganamukti Parishad - dismissed the question of more autonomy. "The TTAADC has enough autonomy. We have heard that BJP has promised a state council for tribals. The Sixth Schedule does not have any provision for such a council. All this is to fool the people," he said.
 
 Questions have also been raised about IPFT's decision to climb down from its demand. "It (IPFT) has made a mistake by tying up with BJP. It has lost credibility. It is better to lose polls than lose credibility. The IPFT has only played with tribal sentiments by promising them a state and then backing down for political power," said Sunil Kalai, a tribal activist associated with Congress.
 
 Consensus is that Tipraland will never happen; that it is no more than an emotional anchor for people. But in a state where 20 of the 60 assembly seats are tribal-reserved, emotions could play a key role. Any perceived 'climbing down' on the part of IPFT and a split in the tribal vote between it and INPT, may deal a blow to BJP.
 
 
