MUMBAI: In a bid to reduce noise pollution on roads, the   has decided to crack down on honkers by suspending their driving licence for 15 days, along with imposing a hefty fine, and even suspend the registration of their vehicles temporarily.

 But this action will come only after a  , commencing Tuesday. To spread the message of ‘No-Honking’, two autorickshaws will ride across the city with one lakh   to be pasted on cars, autos, taxis, aggregator cabs and even school vans. After the 10 days of “education for motorists”, the RTO will start taking action. 
 
 RTO officials will stand on roads armed with noise meters to check the decibel levels of horns. Motorists found flouting noise rules through   above the permitted limits could lose their licence for 15 days and registration of vehicle temporarily—they will not be allowed to use the vehicle on road during the suspension period. Commercial vehicles, that are often found to use shrill, multi-toned loud horns, will be denied fitness ceriticates, if found flouting noise pollution rules. “We will also target two-wheeler riders, especially those who remove the bikes’ silencers,” said an RTO official from western suburbs. The anti-honking drive is being conducted on the directions of principal secretary (transport) Manoj Saunik.
 
 Sources in transport department said all vehicles will have to abide to the 87 decibel noise limit, with 13 decibel limit for horns over the engine noise of 74 decibel, as per existing rules under Motor Vehicles Act. However, several vehicles are found honking at over 110 decibels, which is hazardous to public health. 
 
 Thamby Kurien of the Mumbai Rickshawmen’s Union said, “Our activists will drive two autos, which are non-transport, across the city along with NGO volunteers who will stop at petrol/CNG pumps and educate motorists on the ill-effects of honking. While they will ask citizens to pledge not to honk, we will paste the stickers on the bumper of commercial vehicles and private cars.” 
 
 Sumaira Abdulali, convener of Awaaz Foundation, said the city honks 18 million times an hour. “We want more people to pledge not to honk.”
 
