The American National Book Award winner  , felicitated for her young adult memoir 
 , has been named the National Ambassador for Young People’s Literature.

 The announcement was made by the  , one of three organizations that picked Woodson, along with the Children's Book Council and Every Child a Reader.
 
 Carla hayden, the Librarian of Congress, said she was “delighted” on the fact that Woodson agreed to take on the role and responsibitilties related to the new position.
 
 Hayden said, “I have admired Jacqueline Woodson’s work for years, especially her dedication to children and young adult literature.” She added, “The Library of Congress looks forward to Jacqueline’s tenure of encouraging young readers to embrace reading as a means to improve the world.”
 
 Woodson will be inaugurated as the National Ambassador for Young People’s Literature on January 9 at the Library of Congress, and she will be the sixth one in the line of Ambassadors. Previous ambassadors include Jon Scieszka, Katherine Paterson, Walter Dean Myers, Kate DiCamillo and Gene Luen Yang.
 
 Based in New York, Woodson, has effortlessly manuevered between genres. 
  was her poetry collection whereas and she has also written fiction for adults. But she emphasises mostly on books for children and young adults, with more than 20 titles to her credit.
 
 On the new role, Woodson commented that her work would be “challenging”. 
 
 “I don’t believe there are ‘struggling’ readers, ‘advanced’ readers or ‘non’ readers,” she said. “I would love to walk away from my two years as ambassador with the qualifiers gone and young people able to see themselves beyond stigma or oft-times debilitating praise.”
 
 Jacqueline Woodson has authored more than 30 books, including the novel 
 , which won the Los Angeles Times Book Prize in 2000. She's also written the 2016 novel 
 , a finalist for the National Book Award. Woodson has won the Newbery Honor for children's literature as amny as four times, and was named the “young people's poet laureate” by the Poetry Foundation in 2015.
 
 Woodson's term as the National Ambassador for Young People’s Literature will last until 2019.
 
