PATNA: In a shocking incident, one Nilesh Kumar (35) attempted to commit suicide after grievously injuring his son   (9) and killing his wife   (30) by slitting their throats at Road Number 1 in   under   area in Patna on the night on February 28.

 Nilesh is presently undergoing treatment at   and Hospital ( ) while his is son is admitted at a private hospital in the state capital.
 
 Ram Krishna Nagar police station SHO Ranjan Kumar said that both the father-son duo were battling life and death and were unable to speak anything due to deep cut injuries in throat.
 
 "Both have received eight stitches on throat and police would only be able to know about the actual reason behind the incident once anyone of them start speaking," Kumar said adding that the nearest family members of the couple were being quizzed to know about the reason being the heinous incident.
 
 He said that at around 9pm on Wednesday, police received information about the incident and reached the private residence of Vinay Kumar where the family was living in a rented accommodation for at least last two to three years.
 
 “The trio were lying in a pool of blood inside one of the two rooms of the house. Till police had reached, Sushma had died while Nilesh and Rohit were still breathing,” SHO Kumar said.
 
 He said that the house owner and neighbours heard loud and frantic screams of Sushma following which they reached at the spot.
 
 “Nilesh and Rohit were immediately rushed to a nearby hospital,” he said.
 
 Kumar said that Nilesh had used a large dagger which are normally used by commandos of armed forces. “The matter is under investigation that what resulted the quarrel between Nilesh and Sushma which resulted the incident. It is also under investigation that from where Nilesh procured the dagger and if the Wednesday night incident was pre-planned or took place in a fit of rage,” the SHO said.
 
 Quoting the Nilesh’s land lord and neighbours, the SHO said since last two months, bitter quarrels used to take place between the couple. He said Nilesh was working as a medical attendant at two private hospitals in   area. He said Sushma’s brother has lodged an FIR against Nilesh in connection with the incident.
 
