MADURAI: Absence of elected representatives continued to take the wind out of the sails of the customary gram sabhas held on Republic Day making them a tame affair. With district collectors holding forte at a few meetings, it is pointed out that the focus gets diverted to government schemes rather than discussions on village-specific developmental works, budgets or estimates for works.

 Gram sabhas were held in all 420 villages in the district on Friday. However, villagers say that proper meetings were not conducted in many villages as there were no elected representatives. Those attended by the district collectors drew some crowd thanks to the officials who ensured it. Though it is specified that gram sabhas should discuss the annual budgets and expenditure, they were not discussed even in those sabhas which the collectors participated in most southern districts. 
 
 Madurai district collector K   participated in the gram sabha meeting held in   panchayat in   union. He told the people that the district had been declared open defecation free on August 15 last year during the Independence Day. He urged them to ensure that the district continued to maintain total sanitation. The meeting was also attended by students who were urged by the collector to ensure that the toilets in their homes were used properly rather than being relegated to storage spaces. ``Teachers should also ensure the same,’’ he said.
 
 The collector also told the people that they should appreciate the hard work being done by the sanitary workers to keep the district clean. ``We will realise their importance when they are not there,’’ he said. They were also informed about the various government schemes from which the people could benefit, including the Pradhan Mantiri Awas Yojna, Green house scheme and individual toilet schemes.
 
  and men said that the gram sabha interactions were different when there was an elected representatives. They could get the works done faster by approaching the representatives at these meetings. ``Getting grievances redressed was also easier, whereas today we only listened to the collector,’’ they said. In   district however, the expenditure of the P Kumaralingapuram village in   panchayat union from October to December 2017 was discussed at the gram sabha meeting attended by district collector A Sivagnanam. The project report for the works to be carried out for 2018-2019 from the general fund was also discussed. He urged the people to maintain hygiene and the 63 of the 800 houses in the village which did not have individual toilets to construct them at the earliest. “It should be ensured that residents who did not have space to construct individual toilets used public toilets,” he said. People were also urged to ensure that children up to the age of five were vaccinated during the polio vaccine drive on Jan 28 and March 3.
 
 
