NAGPUR: The Nagpur University has started the process of disaffiliating 109 errant  , who failed to apply for affiliation in the last five years.

 Pro-VC   told reporters that the university had sent these colleges reminders and sought details, but got no response. “We had sought to know intake capacity, courses being run by them, and if they had approval for affiliation,” Yeole said.
 
 The Pro-VC added that initially the number was nearly double, but half of them had later complied with norms. “At the beginning of this academic year, there were around 190 such colleges running without affiliation. We had barred them from admitting students in first year for 2017-18. Around 80 then furnished details and applied for approval,” he said.
 
 The university would be uploading the names of the disaffiliated colleges on its website on April 30, which is the cut off date for seeking continuation of affiliation, and officiating principal approval.
 
 The decision regarding 109 errant colleges was taken during the board of deans meeting last week.
 
 Besides this, the university has also finalized Centralized Admission Process (CAP) for postgraduate courses on the   (DTE), which holds PG admissions online. The CAP would be applicable to all affiliated colleges and   departments.
 
 Yeole said an expert committee of principals has been formed and by March 15 it will decide if undergraduate courses too can be brought under the online CAP.
 
 The univesity would be using a special software that will be ready March 15. All rules and regulations for the CAP too are being readied by this date. The complete schedule will be given for CAP on March 31 for postgrduate courses. Yeole said for UG modalities are being still framed since there a plenty of course combinations. Two CAP rounds would be held and students need to apply online. The third round would be for colleges to clear the remaining seats, if any. “But, each admission would be monitored by the university. The data would be available on day to day basis,” he said. 
 
 The NU had planned to implement the online CAP from the current academic year. But, the state government had asked it to wait since it was planning a uniform guideline for all universities. Later, the government dropped its plans leaving universities to take a call. Since it was too late, the NU had announced a common admission schedule for colleges and CAP for its departments. 
 
 
