Bhopal: Anandiben Patel was sworn in as the 27th governor of Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday. Chief Justice of MP high court Justice Hemant Gupta administered the oath of office to the former Gujarat CM at a ceremony at Raj Bhawan. 

 Anandiben Patel is the second woman governor of the state after Sarla Grewal (1989-90).
 
 In a clear message that she means business, the new Governor was in action mode soon after assuming office. She visited an anganwadi centre and Bal Niketan and later went to the Birla Mandir with her family members in the evening. By visiting these two centres, she conveyed the message that children and women are her areas of her focus. She deftly sidestepped political questions and said: “Everyone feels happy to see children. I am happy to see work being done. India will turn into a strong nation and what we teach our kids today will help in building the nation.” 
 
 The oath-taking was a grand affair. The ceremony began at 10am. Among the dignitaries were Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, MP assembly Speaker Sitasharan Sharma, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and a host of his cabinet ministers, leader of opposition Ajay Singh, and some religious leaders and senior bureaucrats. Chief secretary Basant Pratap Singh read out the warrant of appointment issued by President Ram Nath Kovind, appointing Anandiben as the governor.
 
 After she took oath of office, the chief minister and other dignitaries went up the stage and greeted her. Anandiben went to Raj Bhavan after meeting people for some time. Senior BJP leaders, including the CM, accompanied her to the Governor’s House and left after a brief meeting.
 
 On Monday, Anandiben had travelled to Bhopal by bus from Ahmedabad, taking many by surprise. She made a brief stopover at Ujjain to offer prayers at the Mahakal temple in the evening and reached Bhopal late in the night. She was accompanied by her family members, who attended the oath-taking ceremony as well. Daughter Anar Patel accompanied her to the anganwadi centre and Bal Niketan. State women and child development minister Archana Chitnis was present when the governor interacted with children and women.
 
 MP finally has a full-time Governor after a gap of 16 months. Gujarat governor Om Prakash Kohli held additional charge of MP after Ram Naresh Yadav retired in September 2016.
 
 
