SHIMLA: Two BJP MLAs who failed to get cabinet berth could now be accommodated in the government as cabinet minister and minister of state with governor   clearing the Salaries, Allowances and Other Benefits of Chief Whip and Deputy Chief Whip in the   Bill, 2018, which was passed in the state assembly in April. 

 With the bill getting nod of the governor, now lobbying has started in the BJP for the two posts.
 
 During the budget session Congress members had claimed that the two posts were political and by providing them cabinet status, the BJP government was setting a wrong trend.
 
 According to sources, over six BJP legislators are in the race for the posts. Though making these appointments is the prerogative of chief minister  , as the BJP is a cadre-based party, so he would have to obtain green signal from the party high command to make the appointments, the sources said. They further said that before making appointments in different boards and corporations, appointing chief whip and deputy chief whip could create trouble for the BJP. 
 
 It is assumed that two senior BJP MLAs who failed to get place in the cabinet could be accommodated in the government now. Former ministers Narender Bragta and Ramesh Dhwala had failed to get a cabinet berth in the Thakur-led government while former vice-chairman of HPTDC and   MLA Rakesh Pathania too had not got a berth in the government. 
 
 Bhatiyat MLA of BJP Bikram Jaryal has already expressed his resentment on not being included in the cabinet. There are some other MLAs who despite being very senior have also not been accommodated in the government.
 
 In the budget session, the bill was passed amid stiff opposition from the of Congress. Leader of the CLP Mukesh Agnihotri had said that the chief whip and deputy chief whip would be cabinet ministers without portfolios while Congress MLA Ram   had said that the decision of giving cabinet status to them would come under the purview of the office of profit and would create troubles for the government.
 
 According to the bill, chief whip will be entitled to the salary and allowances on a par with cabinet minister while the deputy chief whip will get the perks on a par with minister of state. This will also cover their residential facility or allowances accordingly. 
 
 
