LUCKNOW: Call it dinner diplomacy of   to keep its flock intact before Rajya Sabha elections or an attempt to bring together all estranged members of Yadav clan, or both, but a get together of around 250 members of SP to be held at a five-star hotel in the state capital on Wednesday has come under political spotlight. 

 What makes the event even more important is the guest list, which includes members of the party's first family, right from SP patriarch  , his brother Shivpal Yadav, their estranged cousin Ram Gopal Yadav and party president Akhilesh Yadav. The four have not appeared together ever since the battle for supremacy broke out in SP in late 2016. 
 
 Another important invitee is independent MLA  , alias Raja Bhaiya, who was member of Akhilesh cabinet but enjoys better rapport with Mulayam. Raja Bhaiya's presence will put to rest speculations over his voting for BJP in Rajya Sabha election along with his close aide Vinod Saroj, Independent MLA from Babaganj, Pratapgarh.
 
 The host, SP MLA from Gauriganj, Rakesh Pratap Singh, described the event as a get together of ' ' denying any political angle to it. 
 
 "It is a celebration of party's victory in recently concluded Lok Sabha bypolls in   and Phulpur," he said refuting reports that the dinner was actually an event to consolidate the party's position ahead of Rajya Sabha polls.
 
 He said the idea came up during a meeting with SP president Akhilesh and senior leaders and claims choosing the invitees himself.
 
 "I went to Delhi to invite Mulayam Singh and Ram Gopal Yadav apart from all other SP MPs in both Houses. All accepted my invitation and promised to attend," he added.
 
 Rakesh said that party chief Akhilesh Yadav has confirmed that he will attend the dinner, and Shivpal Yadav has also promised to be in attendance provided he is back from Etawah in time. "Actually he has a pre-scheduled engagement in Etawah but he said he will try to make it," Rakesh told TOI on Tuesday. On his sending invite to Raja Bhaiya, he said the independent MLA was like an 'elder brother' to him.
 
 Apart from MPs, all MLAs, MLCs, former ministers in SP regime and senior party leaders have also been invited, said Rakesh. 
 
 
