Nagpur: Three Red Bus operators deferred their decision to take city buses off the roads after getting part payment from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday. But the operators are upset over low payment, and will take a decision on what to do next on Monday. TOI had on Thursday reported the three operators’ decision to call off city bus service in the second half of the day, if they do not get payment from NMC in first half. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal had told TOI that payment will be disbursed in the first half, and city bus service — Aapli Bus — will not be hampered. On Mudgal’s directives, NMC accounts and finance department released part payment of Rs1.61 crore from total dues of Rs37 crore. Red Bus operators — city-based Hansa City Bus Services (Nagpur) Private Limited got Rs49.73 lakh, New Delhi-based RK City Bus Services (Nagpur) Private Ltd Rs46.56 lakh, and Pune-based Travel Time Car Rental Private Ltd Rs28.88 lakh. The three operators got Rs1.25 crore as against dues of Rs27 crore. NMC sources told TOI the three Red Bus operators were given payment up to September. “Payment of October, November and December was kept pending due to lack of funds.” Part payment of Rs36.40 lakh was given to transport manager Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd (DIMTS) as against its dues of Rs4 crore. Green bus operator — Swedish bus maker Scania Commercial Vehicles Private Ltd — did not get any payment as against dues of Rs5 crore. Similarly, two private agencies supplying conductors — Unity Security Force, and Security and Intelligence Services (SIS) — too did not get payment despite having dues of over Rs1 crore. Sources from city transport committee said the three Red Bus operators decided to hold a meeting with NMC officials on Monday. “Operators are unable to pay monthly salaries to drivers, pay for fuel etc. Even operators have started to default on loan repayment. Operators had procured new buses on basis of loans. Controversy is likely to continue till payment of three more months to three Red bus operators,” sources said. The city bus service has continued to run in losses. As against estimated expense of around Rs255 crore per annum, the revenue from ticketing is expected at Rs118 crore for a direct loss of Rs137 crore in a fiscal. NMC had planned to give viability gap fund by opening escrow account, but failed to do so due to overall financial crisis.