Chennai: What can you do with 25p? Start a revolution, apparently. And with `1.50? That’s what you pay to keep a secret.

 At the Chennai General  , chief postmaster Alok Ojha isn’t surprised when the heads of multinational companies and large family-owned businesses drop in, enquiring how "safe" it is to send inland letters. "I tell them that unlike emails, inland letters cannot be hacked and so their secrets are safe. So a number of them have switched from emails to inlands when they want to pass on trade secrets and other confidential information," says Ojha.
 
 That’s why Ojha is optimistic about the future of both inland letters and postcards. Especially the latter 126sqcm beige bullet being used to fire the government into action, spread public interest messages, spark sales, ignite friendships, spew venom, and on occasion correspond.
 
 While in 2017, parents in a village in Vizianagaram, Andhra Pradesh, organised a successful postcard campaign to get their children’s primary school reopened, writing 70 letters a day for a week, in Chennai, the frustrated residents of Chitlapakkam used the little missive for their mission to highlight civic issues in their neighbourhood.
 
 M Ravi, sub-inspector, Chennai traffic police, and secretary of the Sri Sarvamangala Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, says he and the several hundred families in the area sent out postcards to various government departments with a list of demands that included a clean-up of the Chitlapakkam and Sembakkam lakes, and better sewage and garbage disposal measures. Families wrote (postal department rules mandate that postcards have to be written by hand and not printed, in which case they elicit a fine) several letters every day, in English and Tamil, until they wound up with more than a lakh of them. "We sent 20,000 postcards to the CM’s office, another 20,000 to the Kancheepuram district collector and 20,000 each to
 
 other departments. The CM visited us a few months ago, and announced a sanction for a water channel. Postcards are the cheapest way to get our message across," says Ravi.
 
 In the 1980s, Justice P N Bhagwati championed the ‘postcard revolution’, which allowed people to send their petitions on a postcard, making it possible for people to directly write to the Supreme Court, seeking legal remedy in public interest cases. "Emails don’t hold sway in court, the humble postcard does. That’s why I say a postcard is worth a thousand emails," says Ojha, adding that letters from advocates to clients regarding cases, disgruntled newspaper readers, and small businesses trying to market their goods form the bulk of users.
 
 Companies like Shri Finance in Sowcarpet send out hundreds of postcards every month as "reminders" to clients who have defaulted on payment. "It’s not as effective as a phone call, but it gets the message across as a first reminder. And it’s cheap," says an employee of the company.
 
 According to Ojha’s data, from April 2017 to February 2018, Chennai GPO has sold 2.4 lakh postcards, while the   circle has sold close to 1.3 crore post cards in the same period. "There are 1,55,000 post offices in India, which means crores of postcard sales," he adds. 
 
 The millennials are taking postcards the extra mile. The six-month old Postmanbaba.com mails postcards for people who email them details of what they want handwritten on the cards. "It’s used by 25 to 35-year-olds for nostalgia. They email us the address they want to send the postcard to and the text and pay `20," says co-founder Udayan Deshpande. His staffers then write out the letter by hand on a 50p postcard and mail it. 
 
 In Chennai, Anna University student G Prakashraj is an avid philatelist and ‘post-crosser’, bartering postcards with people across the globe to not only create a mammoth collection but add to his social network. Launched online by a Portuguese computer systems engineer in 2005, post-crossing is now getting popular in India, with Chennai members organising meet-ups. The most recent was in March, where members met on the metro between Nehru Park and the airport. "The website puts you in touch with post-crossers around the world," says Prakashraj. "While it’s easy to post-cross with people in China, Germany and the UK, where the postal system is active, it’s difficult to get it from smaller island nations. Like Tristan da Cunha, the remotest of them all, for instance, from where I managed to source a postcard."
 
 He has bartered all sorts of things to get his hands on postcards. "For postcards from smaller countries you barter with keychains, chocolates and noodle packets," he says. But it’s helped him make friends, and that’s what matters. "Post-crossers have visited me in Chennai. We keep in touch now," says Prakashraj.
 
 And to think, it all started with one hello and 25p.
 
 
