TRICHY: Retired teachers will no more be appointed as principals in charge of model and constituent colleges under Bharathidasan   from this academic year. The decision comes after the university received complaints that many principals in-charge were unable to manage the affairs. 

 Except for the constituent college at  , the remaining nine colleges have retired college teachers as principal in-charge by way of re-employment. “Regular faculty from within the colleges would be made principal in-charge of these colleges based on their willingness,” said vice-chancellor P Manisankar while speaking to TOI. 
 
 While principals of two of the colleges in   and   have already been replaced, the rest of them would be changed as and when their tenure gets over. While the tenure of many others will be over by August, the university may not find suitable replacement candidates as many among the existing 31 regular faculty members may not meet the eligibly criteria and experience. 
 
 “We have decided to ask willingness of the faculty members (associate professor with over 15 years of teaching experience) from the university, if needed,” said Manisankar adding that the university has received request for transfers from faculty members. In-charge principals are paid Rs 40,000 per month as salary and by replacing them with regular faculty members, the university could save money. 
 
 University sources blamed a former vice-chancellor of the university as having doubled the salary of principals after appointing many of his former colleagues in these colleges. “Many such principals are unable to run the colleges,” said the VC adding that they either had trouble with the senior faculty members or are unable to manage students. Ultimately, it was the students who were at the receiving end. 
 
 “The idea of appointing regular faculty members as principals would benefit students as they will have a sense of belonging that is lacking among many retired teachers,” said a guest faculty from one of the constituent colleges.
 
 
