KOCHI: A year ago, going to school was a difficult task for A   from   who was visually impaired besides suffering from severe diabetes. Today, he has emerged as the topper in the differently-abled category in the CBSE Class XII exams scoring 492 marks out of 500. 

 
 "Last year, I had severe pain in hands and legs because of my diabetes, it was even difficult to attend classes. My parents gave me a lot of support. Even now, I have not been relieved of the pain in my leg," said Vijay from  , Palakkad who has to take four shots of insulin every day to keep his sugar level under control.
 
 Vijay, whose teachers attest to his impeccable character and attitude in school, scored 100 marks in Economics, 99 in Mathematics, Business Studies, Accountancy, and 95 in English. For this year's examination, he was given an extra hour. "The extra time was very helpful. It would take some time for me to read the questions because I have to use a magnifying glass to read the questions," he said.
 
 Shobha Ajith, principal of the Palghat Lions School said Vijay was very focused in his studies. "He faced several challenges but he was able to overcome them because of his focus and perseverance. Apart from his academics, he used to take part in the recitation contests as well," she said.
 
 Vijay's mother, who works with  , said her son has been suffering from diabetes since the age of five and that his teachers had gone out of their way to ensure all support to him.
 
 "It is a proud moment for us. He had worked really hard throughout the year to do well and overcome his disability and now he has managed to score excellent marks," she said.
 
 "The important thing was to study the syllabus as it is taught in the class. I used to wake-up early in the morning and start my studies. In the early hours, I would focus on subjects that require computation and later, the rest. I used to wind up studies around 8pm so that I don't have to strain my eyes," said Vijay.
 
 Vijay, who has a keen interest in Mathematics plans on being a chartered accountant. 
 
 
