GUWAHATI: Once a ubiquitous creature during rainy season and played vital role in controlling vector borne diseases, frogs seemed to have stopped croaking with the urban expansion in the city of 1.4 million-odd population. As the world observed “Save the Frog Day” on Saturday, city’s amphibians are facing a silent death.

 Amphibians which need water and life for their life cycle includes are represented by frogs, caecilians (earthworm like amphibians) and salamanders (lizard like amphibians).
 
 An assessment by a city-based conservation advocacy group Help Earth warned that more than half of the 20 species of frog found in and around Guwahati will go locally extinct, impacting city’s ecological balance especially in checking vector borne diseases. The assess
 
 “The assessment was done during last six years. In fact the work is still on. What we could gather from different ecological parameters vis-à-vis urban expansion is that five to six frog species, the rest will be locally wiped out from Guwahati 10 years down the line. The five to six frog species will survive because of their adaptability in the urban situation,” Help Earth general secretary and herpetologist,   told TOI.
 
 Experts said amphibians are one of the prime components for the wellbeing of an ecosystem. As amphibians need both land and water to complete their life cycle, pollution directly affects them.
 
 “In the urban context, since we have filled almost all the water bodies, and tarred up the roads, frogs have no place to lay eggs and are fast vanishing. Such is the case with our city Guwahati too. Though, the city is home to at least 20 species of frogs, we hardly hear them crock now,” Purkayastha.
 
 Purkayastha said one of the vital ecosystem services provided by frogs are controlling insects and mosquito populations.
 
 “They also eat upon the larvae of mosquitoes, thus helping in checking the rise of dengue and malaria. In their absence, the ecosystem will collapse,” he added.
 
 In the 1980s, unabated export of frogs from India led to serious impact on agriculture, forcing the central government to impose ban on the trade. As frogs prey on insects, they are also natural controller of pests in agricultural fields.
 
