COIMBATORE: The city will finally get its own bicycle sharing system on March 3 as the   plans to launch the first phase at R S Puram with 2,000 cycles for the residents. 
 
 In association with Ofo cycles, the city corporation plans to implement the bicycle sharing system and bring about a habitual change in the way people commute. A corporation official said 2,000 cycles will be available at 100 locations at R S Puram, covering an area of about 3.2sqkm. 
  
 “The cycles will not have any parking stands or docks. The cycles will be placed in 100 locations that will be GPS-enabled. The cycles can be tracked using the Ofo mobile application. One needs to scan the QR code on the cycle to unlock it. Once unlocked, the riders can take the cycle to any destination and end the ride on the application. The bill will be generated and deducted from the accounts or e-wallets,” said Rajarshi Rakesh Sahai, director, public policy, government relations and communications, Ofo. The idea behind making it dock-less was to ensure cycles can be parked anywhere and are not restricted by locations, he said. 
  
 “After using a cycle, it can be dropped anywhere on the road except inside a house. Using the GPS tracking system, the company officials will collect the cycle,” said a corporation official. 
  
 As it the first such launch in the city, the company has come up with exclusive offers for public that will be announced on March 3. Only a minimal amount will be charged for the usage. The company has already conducted a survey and will launch a total of 20,000 cycles in the city in various areas. “Other probable areas are Sarvanamapatti, Sai Baba Colony and Race Course,” said an official. 
  
 The population of R S Puram is nearly 1 lakh. After studying the transportation pattern, 2,000 more cycles will be deployed in the area. “Based on the public acceptance and usage, the bicycle sharing system will be introduced across the city,” said an official. 
  
 The system was earlier launched in four city-based institutions - Kumaraguru College of Technology, PSG Institutions, Bharatiar University and   - where 100 cycles each were deployed. 
  
 Minister for rural and municipal administration S P   will inaugurate the launch and commissioner of municipal administration   will also be part of the event. 
  
  
