MUMBAI: Almost two months after seven foreigners were arrested with 18 trolleys stuffed with leaves suspected to contain narcotics, a forensic report has nailed the accused last week. 

 The six were held with 360 kg of the stimulant leaves known as ‘khat’ or ‘muguka’ or ‘mira’ and valued at Rs9 crore. As this was the first such seizure at the city airport, officials of   police station had sent the leaves for forensic analysis to ensure that the leaves are included in the ‘narcotic substances’ category in India. 
 
 The forensic analysis report states that the leaves contain “cathinone”, a narcotic substance, said the police. The report was submitted in the metropolitan magistrate’s court in Andheri on May 9 after which the accused were sent to judicial custody till May 22. The police produced the arrested accused—Kenyans Zeinul Abid Khan (24),   (34) and   (32), Ethiopians Taufique Mohammed Ali (32), Nuru Mohammed Umer (38), Hassen Mohammed Abrahim (29) and Swedish national of African origin Abdullahi Zakariye (35)—in the NDPS court which refused to grant them bail. 
 
 “Based on the forensic analysis report, the seven foreigners were booked under the NDPS Act,” said a an officer from Sahar police station. 
 
 The police are on the lookout for the main accused, identified only as Munazir, was supposed to collect the consignment, said the police. The consigment was later meant to be packed into tea bags—showing them as “dried green tea”—and was to be exported to European countries. 
 
 The police said that the leaves, a stimulant crop grown in Embu County East Province of Africa. Chewing these leaves leads to a surge in energy levels, alertness, confidence and also elevates one’s mood. 
 
 On March 21, Zeinul was caught when immigration officials grew suspicious about his frequent visits to Mumbai, each time with huge trolleys. The officials checked three of the trolleys that Zeinul had carried and found the leaves. His arrest led to the arrests of the other six on March 24 and 15 trolleys were seized from them. 
 
 “In the last six months, Khan had visited Mumbai 27 times,” said a police officer.
 
