NEW DELHI:   returned to their original home ground on a winning note as they defeated   by 10 runs (DLS) in a rain-truncated Indian Premier League 2018 match at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur on Wednesday.

 
 After a two-and-half hour long rain delay, Daredevils were set a revised target of 71 runs in six overs. With some superb bowling from Royals bowlers, the hosts restricted Daredevils to 60/4 and registered their first win of the season.   was the pick of Royals bowler as he took two wickets for 20 runs in two overs, while   chipped in with a wicket.
 
 
 
 
 The Daredevils chase started on a wrong note as they lost opener Colin Munro, through run out, in the first ball itself after a huge mix-up in the middle. Rishabh Pant though salvaged the over by hitting two fours as they reached 10/1.
 
 Dhawal Kulkarni used slower deliveries cleverly and gave away just five runs in the second over. But Maxwell kept Delhi in the hunt as he smacked Unadkat, who started with three dot balls, for a six and two fours in the next over to take the visitors to 29/1. Maxwell (17) though was caught behind off Ben Laughlin in the fourth over, leaving the equation at 37 off 14 balls. 
 
 While trying to increase the run rate, Pant (20 off 14) was caught by Krishnappa Gowtham off Unadkat in the fifth over and Daredevils were left to score 25 off the final over. 
 
 Sent in to bat, Royals lost opener D'Arcy Short early in the second over. Ajinkya Rahane and Ben Stokes steadied the innings, but while trying to up the ante the Englishman edged one to Pant off Trent Boult in the fifth over. Stokes scored 16 off 12 balls with the help of a six and a four.
 
 In-form   came out with all guns blazing as he smacked Boult for a four and a six in consecutive balls soon after Stokes wicket. Samson and Rahane revived the Royals innings with 62-run stand for the third wicket. The duo took Royals to 84/2 at the halfway mark.
 
 Left-arm spinner   broke the partnership in the 11th over when he clean bowled Samson to reduce Royals to 90/3. Samson was looking good in the middle, as he smashed two sixes and two fours for his quick-fire 37 off 22 balls. 
 
 Rahane hit   for a four at deep extra cover as Royals reached 100-run mark in 12.1 overs. Rahane (677 runs) then surpassed Rohit Sharma (670) to become the batsman with most runs against Daredevils, but soon departed for 45 in the 14th over. Rahane hit five fours in his 40-ball innings before becoming second victim of Nadeem. who finished with figures of 2/32 in four overs.
 
 Rahul Tripathi joined Jos Buttler in the middle and they started scoring runs in good rate. They butchered Chris Morris for 18 runs in the 17th over with Buttler hitting a six and a four after Tripathi started the over with a maximum over deep mid-wicket. Buttler took Royals to 150-mark with a six off Shami in the next over, but was clean bowled three balls later by the India pacer. A ball later, rain arrived and play was stopped with Royals at 153/5 in 17.5 overs. 
 
