MADURAI: The founder of the Indian Centre for Animal Rights and Education, (INCARE) S   has sought action against the owner of an elephant which was allegedly smuggled into India from Andamans. An action was sought against the forest department which did not confiscate the animal in spite of many petitions in this regard.

 Speaking to TOI, Muralidharan said that strolling through the   temple in the heart of Madurai city on Tuesday, he saw an elephant standing in front of the temple, with both its front and back legs chained to minimize its movements. “The elephant looked emaciated and there were no proper drinking water facilities or food, except for a few strands of fodder,” he said.
 
 That was when he asked for the papers pertaining to the elephant. However, the owner was not been able to produce documents from   and instead showed papers to prove that the animal had been brought from Andamans in 2007 .
 
 The name of the female pachyderm was given as Malachi, though the present owner calls it Jeyapriya. Once the animal was brought into Tamil Nadu, they should have obtained an   from the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, (PCCF) but there were no papers to this effect. This showed that the animal had been smuggled into the state illegally and also being held captive against the Tamil Nadu Captive Elephant Management and Maintenance rules of 2011.
 
 A complaint on the same lines had been filed by   volunteer, (GOI), P Paulraj, with the conservator of forests, Madurai circle on Aug 28, last year for illegal captivity of the pachyderm which comes under schedule I of the Wild Life Act of 1972, and action was initiated and the owner was fined Rs 10,000. “But, as per the rules the animal should have been seized, but the forest department seems to turn a blind eye on the issue,” he said.
 
 So Muralidharan, wants the police to take action and file FIR against the owner as well as the forest department, in the complaint lodged with the Thideer Nagar police on Jan 16. But he said that he had not even received the   till Wednesday.
 
 “I am not against the animal being domesticated, as elephants live better in captivity than in the wild. With hundreds of elephants having been killed throughout India in the past 90 days, this animal is definitely being abused by its owner and should be handed over to the Meenakshi temple, which maintains its animals well,” he said. When contacted, the Thideer Nagar police said that they had forwarded the complaint to the forest department.
 
 
