GURUGRAM: Bankers and third-party cash logistics providers on Wednesday offered different versions of the status of cash availability in the city.

 While banks denied that ATMs were running dry, saying there was enough cash in circulation, a Confederation of   Industry (CATMI) official claimed the demand-supply gap had widened since April 1, causing a temporary shortage.
 
 “Till March-end, both public and private bank ATMs had been able to meet up to 90% of currency demands. But the situation has become bad in the past one week. Currently, PSU bank ATMs are meeting only up to 30% of the demand, whereas private bank ATMs are supplying up to 60% of the cash required,” said V Balasubramanian, spokesperson for CATMI. 
 
 On Wednesday, this correspondent visited a number of ATMs — three each at Sukhrali and Gurugram bus stand, and one at Bhim Nagar. Of the seven ATMs, only one at Sukhrali was dispensing Rs 2,000 notes while the others were running dry.
 
 Though the situation may not be as grim as it was in the aftermath of the 2016 demonetisation, people complained about   at the ATMs. Kali Charan, who works as a guard, said, “I went to the Canara Bank ATM located at Sukhrali to withdraw Rs 1,000, but my transaction was declined.”
 
 The situation at the HDFC ATM at the bus stand was the same. “I have been coming to this ATM for the last four days in the hope of getting money. Every time there was a board saying that the ATM was out of order,” said Jitender Rana, who works in a nearby tea stall.
 
 The ICICI bank ATM at Bhim Nagar was out of order too, while Aseem Takyar, a resident of Sector 23, claimed the Canara Bank ATM there had been non-functional through the past week.
 
 Navroze Dastur, director of NCR Corporation Pvt Ltd, an ATM manufacturer, said the crunch had been caused by a sudden rise in currency demand. “This is a temporary shortage.”
 
 However, bankers said there were a total of 1,306 money vending machines in the city, most of which were currently dispensing cash. Sumant Katpalia, head of consumer banking at IndusInd Bank, said, “As far as our bank is concerned, there is no problem with the cash flow.”
 
 Mohender Kakkar, an SBI official, also claimed that there was no currency crisis. Even lead district manager RC Nayak refuted claims of currency crunch in the city. “There is no problem with the currency flow. If there was any problem regarding cash, the administration would have asked me for a report. Till now, nothing like this has happened.”
 
 When contacted, state finance minister Captain Abhimanyu said, “We haven’t got any report about any serious (cash) crisis in the state. In some villages, we have come to know through social media about some sort of shortage. We immediately contacted officials concerned and the matter has more or less been resolved.”
 
 
