NEW DELHI: A court has said that judiciary should sternly deal with the issue of   as the perpetrator, "if not treated", becomes dangerous over time and poses a threat to the  . 

 It also termed Delhi as one of the "most dangerous" cities for women in recent times, and added that "acts of rude and continuous staring at body parts, ogling, lewd remarks and gestures, filthy jokes and brushing against a female's body" are the things that women in the city face all the time.
 
  Special judge Kamini Lau's observations came while dismissing the appeals of two convicts in a stalking case and upholding their six months' jail term. For the court, there was no reason to disbelieve the statement of the victim, who was stalked in 2013 by her two classmates. "There was no reason for her to falsely implicate them," it said. 
 
  According to the court, Indian society has been struggling to find ways to deal with the crime of stalking, which was made an offence in 2013, but there have been several shortcomings in the existing law and a stalker cannot be allowed to roam around freely as his activities could be dangerous for others. 
 
 Society often blames women saying they failed to wear "modest clothes", however, it has been observed that even those wearing dresses that "society claims are decent" are also not spared, it added.
 
 "Eve-teasing is not to be judged by men by their own parameters but by women as to how they feel about the same. To a pervert mind, it does not matter how a woman is dressed, how old she is, how pretty she is, where she is - whether in a public transport or hospital, etc," said Lau.
 
  Eve-teasing, the court observed, is almost institutionalised in public transport and public places and "perverts look for easy preys" and vulnerable victims so that they do not get caught. 
 
  The court said refusal to act on the testimony of a survivor of sexual assault in the absence of corroboration as a rule amounts to "adding insult to injury" and asked why should the evidence of the woman who complained of stalking or molestation be viewed with suspicion? 
 
 
