MADURAI: Tense moments prevailed in the Alanganallur jallikattu arena as a raging bull ripped a tamer’s stomach, exposing a portion of intestine. While the injured man, with jersey number 504, was waiting for help, the Samburanipatti bull which attacked him stood still for at least a couple of minutes. Even the district collector kept calling   volunteers, the reputed bull which was adjusted one of the best bulls last year, did not give way for the rescuers.

 The stunned crowd was relieved only after a group of valiant tamers, who carried him on their shoulders out of the arena, unmindful of the lurking danger. The incident took place at 2.40 pm.
 
 There were many such breath-taking moments in the event which lasted till 5 pm starting from 8 am.
 
 It was the first time a jallikattu was inaugurated by a Chief Minister of the state, as   and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam flagged off the game jointly.
 
 After administering oath to the bull tamers and other stake holders of the event the Chief Minister said “The owners raise their bulls like own children. There is not even an iota of harm meted out to the animals. I thank the organisers for the preparation which was done in the best way that the whole world can watch it.”
 
 Around 25 people injured in the jallikattu while seven among them hurt grievously. The seriously injured were referred to Government Rajaji Hospital, while the rest were treated in medical camps.
 
 From around the 1000 bulls registered, only 638 turned up. As many as 603 bulls were declared fit and among them only 571 bulls were able to take part in the jallikattu. Similarly, only 697 bull tamers took part, while over 1100 tamers registered for the event. As many as 193 tamers were rejected among the 890 who turned up for the event.
 
 It was raining prizes at the event. Two hatchback cars, sponsored by the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister, were given away as prizes for the top performing tamer and bull. Apart from this, there were three motorcycles and gold coins given away as prizes. For some select bulls prize amount of Rs one lakh was announced. Mostly, such prizes went to the bull owners, as the tamers could not rein in them.
 
 Thousands of people thronged from various parts of the state and even from other states witnessed the event. Foreigners were seated in a separate gallery.
 
 The event was being held under the supervision of a jallikattu inspection committee led by Animal Welfare Board of India member S K Mittal. The team congratulated both the district administration and jallikattu committee for adhering to the rules and making the event safe for the animals.
 
 Forest minister Dindigul C Srinivasan, revenue minister R B Udayakumar, cooperation minister  , information and publicity minister Kadambur Raju, dairy minister Rajendra Balaji, adi dravida welfare minister Rajalakshmi, Information technology minister Dr M Manikandan, Madurai North MLA Rajan Chellappa, local MLA K   and a few other leaders were present.
 
 
