NEW DELHI: Three men got a congratulatory call on Wednesday evening from the president of institute of chartered accounts of India. These three, which included two from the capital, managed to secure the top three ranks in the CA   after several years of study and hard work. The first rank was secured by Mohit Gupta from Karnal, and   from Delhi came second and third respectively. All three are students of Delhi University.

 Hirwani completed his graduation from Hansraj College, Mittal from Shri Ram College of Commerceand Gupta from Ramjas College. All three were students of BCom (Honours) and Gupta is a topper from his college. All three are currently completing their mandatory articleship.
 
 
 
 Gupta was taken for a surprise 10 minutes before the   results were declared, by a phone call from the president of the institute, Nilesh Wikamse. Wikame informed the three of their performance and congratulated them. After attending to a barrage of calls from friends, family and well-wishers, they all looked forward to a quiet evening with their families.
 
 “I am going to take at least 4 days to just relax,” proclaimed Gupta. He has no definite plans for the future, but would like take the time to look forward. For strategy, he said, respect for deadlines was of utmost importance. “I would set goals for myself, both long term and short term, and make sure to reach them. You need to divide your subjects and tackle them one at a time,” he revealed.
 
 
 
 Aditya too had the same strategy of respecting deadlines. He wants to get into finance sector, hopefully Goldman Sachs. With his elder brother already placed in the US as a software developer, he wouldn’t mind joining him and staying abroad, “if the opportunity comes”.
 
 Prashant has no fixed plans for the future too, other than enjoying the success for the time being. He started his preparation in January 2016, and went on to study for 10 hours a day as the finals approached. “I’d take a few breaks once in a while with walks,” he revealed.
 
 The final examination was held on December 2017 and 1,28,853 students were admitted for the final exams, held over 346 centres across the globe.
 
 
