KOLKATA: A probe into the car-theft racket, in which a self-styled producer would hire vehicles and sell them off on an online platform, has led the police all the way to Imphal where they arrested a local, Md Mujahidden alias Rustom, who handled the “operations” in  .

 Over the past two years, he would get the handover of the “sold” vehicles and then sell them off in Manipur and Nagaland at throwaway prices, after changing the chassis numbers.
 
 The joint team from Purba Jadavpur and Panchasayer police stations, which caught Rustom, told TOI that an SUV worth Rs 5lakh-Rs 7lakh would be sold for anything between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 2.5 lakh. Rustom’s is the 10th arrest in the case . “At least three RTO officials in Manipur are under scanner as we found chassis numbers were changed once the cars reached there. We will contact the Manipur police,” said an officer.
 
 The cops said they recovered eight cars from Manipur and brought them back to the city, where they now planned to return the vehicles to the owners. One of those cars was reported to be stolen from   and another from Kasba. “We have contacted the owners and explained to them the process of how to get their vehicles back. We hope to return a Xylo stolen from Kasba and an Aspire from East Jadavpur by the end of this week,” said the officer.
 
 So far, the divisional police have recovered 11vehicles and the detective department 10 more. The police said another 110-115 stolen cars from Kolkata and adjoining areas were now plying in the Northeast.
 
 The police are now on the lookout for the gang leader,  , who is supposed to be from south Bengal. “To dodge any suspicion, the gang hired  
 
 (38), a self-styled producer, who became the face of the operation. Rafiqul planned everything and the Manipur operations were handled by Rustom,” claimed a sleuth.
 
 Bhattacharya introduced himself to transporters in Kolkata and suburbs and showed them three things to win their trust: photos of launch parties of his films, where he could be seen with politicians and actors, an astronomical rental agreement—offering Rs 50,000 to hire an SUV—and a certificate that showed he was an upcoming producer with other business interests, one being to put high-end cars on rent.
 
 “The gang hired about 10 cars at a go. For example, car owner  , whose complaint led to Bhattacharya’s arrest, was asked to send the vehicle to a hospital off EM Bypass. Within hours, the car was sold on OLX at half the price. The owners were never paid the full rent on time, and after a few months, it stopped,” an officer said.
 
