CHANDIGARH: The city’s first continuous ambient   station (CAAQMS) to get real time data of air quality will be set up at   ( ).

 Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee ( ) and the Centre for Public Health, Panjab University, jointly proposed to have the station at PU. The university’s senate would take a final call for the installation of the station in its meeting on April 1. Currently monitoring the air quality at five locations manually, the committee does not have any station to get the real time data of the air quality.
 
 “The continuous real time data will help the UT administration to formulate policies to tackle air pollution. This is the first such monitoring station where we will get minute-to-minute real time data on air quality. All the updated parameters will be covered,” said  , coordinator, Centre for Public Health, PU.
 
 The committee wrote to PU in October 2017 to install a CAAQMS near parking area of public health department. Under the Central government scheme, the committee intend to install 1 CAAQMS. “In this CAAQMS, parameters CO, SO2, NOx, NH3, O3, PM10, PM2.5, Benzene, Xoluene and Toluene will be monitored and the station will also have the facilities for monitoring meteorological parameters, including wind direction, wind speed, ambient temperature, relative humidity, solar radiation and rainfall. Data will be displayed through a display board also for which one display board may be installed at desired location by Panjab University. It will be beneficial for the students, research scholars,” the committee had written to PU.
 
 Moreover, PU would have no financial burden since the committee has clarified that instruments will be procured and run by it and even electricity/broadband connection will be taken separately. “The station will be collecting real time data on air quality as well as meteorological parameters. It will also be displaying the air quality and will be helpful to create awareness among students, faculty and community,” added Mor.
 
 How will the station make a difference
 
 The existing system determines air quality by collecting average data of 24 hours, but continuous ambient air quality monitoring station will get minute-to-minute real time data, which will be displayed and available on a public portal.
 
 
