JAIPUR: In a major security lapse,   (BSP) legislator   was spotted carrying a pistol in the state assembly on Monday. The lawmaker had the weapon under a long kurta but its barrel was revealed through the side-cuts while he was giving a byte to media at the assembly stairs. 

 Nyangli had come from the House to talk to reporters at the stairs. He walked with utmost ease, passing through the metal detectors and the security persons positioned at the gate used by ministers, legislators and officials. He then went home and returned to assembly without the weapon.
 
 The BSP legislator later told news channels that he mistakenly carried the weapon inside the assembly premises. "I came to assembly directly from my constituency this morning and, in a hurry, forgot to remove the pistol. I always carry a licensed pistol due to the life threats I regularly receive," Nyangli said.
 
 Marshal   told TOI that the legislators are never frisked while entering the assembly building. "There is no system of frisking the MLAs. Before the start of every assembly session, the legislators are given a bulletin of dos and don'ts. Besides other things, the bulletin tells them what items they can carry and what they cannot inside the assembly. We rely on the MLAs to stick to these guidelines." 
 
 On being asked if the metal detectors failed to discover the weapon, the marshal said, "Our machines are modern but what went wrong will have to be looked into. Probe has been initiated and the assembly secretary would be submitting a report in this regard."
 
 In the evening when a TOI reporter passed through the same metal detector, it beeped and the security persons sprang into action. The reporter was allowed to pass when the security men found he was carrying a laptop in the bag. The incident suggested that the metal detectors were working fine but apparently the security persons allowed the   to pass despite being alerted by the machine in the day.
 
 Nyangli represents   constituency in Churu district, which is a hotbed of liquor mafia gangs. In 2014, a criminal gang made a bid on his life. Nyangli lost his right eye in the gun attack. The state government has been providing police security to the BSP MLA whose elder brother Virendra Nyangli, who too was a BSP leader, was gunned down by the liquor mafia in 2009.
 
 
