KOLKATA: A demolition brigade hammered down the terrace of a   hotel in the heart of the city on Wednesday to clear the site for the construction of a 35-storeyed residential tower. The demolition, facilitated by a   order downgrading the building’s heritage status, has drawn criticism from conservation activists and architects. 
 
 Located near the junction of Middleton Street and Little Russell Street,   Hotel wasn’t just another old building in Kolkata’s rich historic urban landscape. As author-researcher and conservation activist Amit Chaudhuri pointed out, it was among the oldest in business. Run by the Sarkies, a prominent Armenian family that had bought it from a Christian couple in 1948, it was also called   after owner Joyce Purdy. “The rooms, each the size of a small apartment, with separate dining and sitting space, were a striking contrast to the otherwise standard box-like hotel rooms in other hotels,” Chaudhuri recounted. 
 
 
  
  
 When KMC published the ‘Graded List of Heritage Buildings’ on February 25, 2009, the Old   Hotel was listed a Grade IIA heritage building, but in 2017, it was downgraded to Grade III, a category of buidings that can be demolished. 
  
 In recent years, the building had fallen into disrepair. The gardens had grown wild and unkempt; the boundary wall was encroached upon by hawkers; the facade began to show signs of age. “But through all this, what remained was that grand silhouette, the overpowering presence, and the historical backdrop to our lives and all those that called this area home. This was a great building waiting to be reused and reinserted into the city’s present and future,” rued Animesh Nayak, founder of Kolkata Architecture Foundation. 
  
 The property was sold a decade ago to a consortium that constructed the city’s tallest tower, The 42 with 63 storeys, in the adjoining plot — 42B, Chowringhee Road. The plots were later amalgamated and another tower, Chowringhee Residency with 35 storeys, was to be built next. There was only one hurdle: the building’s Grade II heritage status that didn’t allow demolition. The developers then applied to the KMC heritage committee for revision in the building's gradation. 
  
 “Around August-September 2016, we applied for conversion for Grade II to Grade III. The conversion happened around February-March 2017. It was cleared in the mayor in council meeting the following month. Thereafter, it went to Project Management Unit (PMU) in charge of heritage. They took six months to give the go ahead with a rider that we inform the director general of building department before demolishing it. We moved DG building in November. We started demolition after getting its nod,” said Amar Nath Shroff, chairman of Alcove Realty, one of the developers in the consortium. 
  
 On Wednesday, the roof of the building was pulled down. The developers expect the plan for the new 35-storey building to be approved in two-three months and construction to begin later this year. 
  
 Critical of the KMC’s move, Amit Chaudhuri pointed out that several heritage buildings had been surreptitiously downgraded or even delisted. “It is time civil society protested the flouting of laws governing heritage, not least by those who have been assigned the task to protect it in this city, and set a precedent for the future. The destruction of the Old Kenilworth Hotel is a reminder of the intellectual and moral bankruptcy that is steadily destroying this city’s architectural inheritance," said Chaudhuri. 
  
 Nayak of Kolkata Architecture Foundation, a forum of contemporary architects, says the destruction is tragic and unnecessary. “Longstanding buildings such as the Old Kenilworth are not mere physical constructs in the lives of people and the city, though, even as a structure it had an elegance that we Kolkata architects are proud of and respond to. But these buildings are also the repository of memories, and a reflection of the people around them, lending a sense of comfort and cultural continuity in an otherwise hurried and splintered world,” he said. 
  
  
