HYDERABAD: Ahead of the general elections next year, the TRS government is making all out efforts to complete six major and two medium irrigation projects that will provide water to 19 lakh acres in the most backward districts of Telangana.

 
  
 
 Apart from completing priority projects such as Kalwakurti, SRSP Stage-II, Bheema and  , the irrigation wing has decided to complete Devadula, Sripada Sagar, flood flow canal, Lower Penganga projects and the first phase of Kaleshwaram. To ensure their completion, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the finance department to provide the highest amount of funds in the ensuing budget to be presented on March 14 or 15.
 Aiming to win the hearts of big districts, including Mahbubnagar, Karimnagar, Adilabad and  , the TRS government has directed all chief engineers of the irrigation projects to ensure release of water at least by December 2018. The top leadership of the party is planning to celebrate the water release event in a big way and garner the support of farmers before the polls.
 
 
 “As per CM KCR’s directions, the irrigation and agriculture departments will get a lion’s share in the budget of 2018-19. The allocations have been finalised and awaiting fine tuning from the chief minister,” said sources in irrigation department.
 
 
 Major projects, including Kalwakurti, Nettampadu, Bheema and SRSP Stage-II, are expected to provide irrigation facility to 3.52 lakh acres by June, while medium projects such as Palemvagu, Gollavagu, Nelwai, Komaram Bheem and Peddavagu would irrigate 52,132 acres.
 
 
 Under the ongoing projects, AMR SLBC, JR Chokkarao Devadula, Sripada Sagar (part of Kaleshwaram), 1st phase of Kaleshwaram, Indiramma flood flow canal, Lower Penganga, including Chanaka-Korata barrage, would bring 6.32 lakh acres into cultivation. Medium projects like Medikunta Vagu and Lendi would be completed by 2018-end to provide irrigation to 35,591acres in Adilabad.
 
 
 “The chief minister’s promise to provide irrigation facility to one crore acres will be realised through the completion of these projects. We have already crossed the 52 lakh mark and remaining ayacut will be extended after completion of six major and two medium irrigation projects this year,” irrigation minister Harish Rao told TOI.
 
 
 His frequent visits to project sites to expedite the works is yielding results as several major projects have announced the timeline to release water between June and November this year.
 
