CHENNAI: From swanky retirement homes at the foothills of the Western Ghats to budget stays, the state’s urban greying population now has a plethora of options to spend their twilight years. But for those with physical and mental disabilities, a choice is a luxury even if they have the money.

 A room full of senior citizens and their children stood testament to this. A son who left a high-paying job abroad to search for his dementia-stricken father, who had wandered out of the house five years ago and never returned. A visually-impaired single mother who has to depend on her family and friends to protect her 40-year-old daughter with cerebral palsy. An aged husband who is struggling to take care of his wife, left bedridden by a stroke. All of them had sought space in a retirement home, but were shown the door.
 
 On Wednesday, representatives of various NGOs, educational institutions, builders’ associations and healthcare providers came together to discuss trends in elderly care and the lacuna in the present system. “The biggest gap we see right now is the lack of inclusiveness in retirement homes,” said P S Srikumar, director of Care Finder, an organisation that works on individualised elderly home and health care services. He said although old age and retirement homes have mushroomed over the years, they continue to be selective about who they admit. “You can’t blame the homes. They are often not equipped to take care of those who have medical needs,” he said.
 
 According to a report by United Nations Population Fund, Tamil Nadu has the second highest percentage of senior citizens (above 60 years) in the country, only next to neighbouring Kerala. At least three-quarters of the four lakh elderly people living alone are women. In 2016, the state sent the maximum number of proposals to the Centre for opening old age homes in the country with 53 such requests being made under the Integrated Programme for Older Persons Scheme.
 
 A Sridharan of Covai Senior Care Constructions said integrating care to living is crucial for many senior citizens, especially those suffering from mobility issues, dementia and Alzheimer’s. “They need constant care and timely medication. Just building homes for our elderly won’t do. Retirement homes should now expand and explore the possibility of incorporating care,” he said.
 
 
