KOLKATA: The condition of the Bangladeshi man, who needs a   transplant to survive, is so desperate that his family is now willing to reach a compromise with the relative, who stole their money and tried to flee to   after coming here, promising to be the donor. 

 TOI reported on Tuesday how Aynal Haque Sardar, who came to Kolkata along with nephew Mohammad Tarique Hassan’s family to donate a kidney to the ailing 20-year-old, instead stole the family’s Rs 10 lakh and tried to flee to his Bangladesh home.
 
 Sardar is now behind bars — after being arrested by Kolkata Police officials at the Petrapole border — but Hassan’s condition is so dire that his family says it is willing to forget and forgive Sardar’s betrayal. “We are still hoping that police will allow my brother-in-law to donate a kidney to my son,” Hassan’s father,  , said. “He broke down when I met him at the police station and said he regretted the betrayal. He explained that he had fallen into bad company,” Mandal said.
 
 Legal complications, however, may stand in the way of this transplant even though both the donor and the recipient’s family — forced by circumstances — are now willing to bury the hatchet.
 
 “They may be from Bangladesh but, if the transplant is to be done here, it has to meet provisions of The Transplantation of Human Organs and Tissues Act, 1994. Section 7 talks about how to distinguish a relative donor from a non-relative donor,” senior criminal lawyer Milon Mukherjee said. “Also, the accused first needs to get bail for the transplant to happen. A court will have to decide if he is free to donate the kidney while in custody,” he added.
 
 “Only the court, which is hearing this case, can decide,” agreed senior criminal lawyer Sekhar Basu. “The prosecutors, the complainant and the accused will all have to appeal for this in court,” he added.
 
 Mandal and his son landed in Kolkata on January 17 along with Sardar and another relative for Hassan’s treatment. The 20-year-old has already undergone one kidney transplant. He got that kidney from mother in 2013. But the transplanted organ developed complications, forcing Hassan to be on dialysis again.
 
 “Doctors in Dhaka told us that another kidney transplant was the only option to save my son. We wanted to get this done in Kolkata as we heard that quality of transplant surgeries here were better,” Mandal, an airman with the Bangladesh Air Force, said. His brother-in-law, Sardar, agreed to play donor when the family was wondering where they would get a kidney this time. Both the intended recipient, Hassan, and the donor, Sardar, underwent several tests in Dhaka, which concluded that the donation could go ahead.
 
 “We knew about the rules and were relieved when my brother-in-law offered to be the donor. We came thoroughly prepared,” Mandal told TOI.
 
 Doctors at the Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences conducted the preliminary tests. The tissue-type matching was due when Sardar fled with the Rs 10 lakh, treatment documents and passports on February 2. But cops managed to arrest him the very next day from Petrapole.
 
 “The patient is on dialysis but it will not ensure quality life. A kidney transplant is the best option,” an RTIICS nephrologist said.
 
 
