CHENNAI: Nearly 150 village-level committees have been constituted in Tiruvannamalai, Salem, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts to protest the proposed   highway connecting Salem and Chennai, under the central government’s Bharatmala Pariyojana scheme. 

 
  
 Sources in the intelligence wings of the state and the Centre said that there are strong undercurrents among the villagers against the eight/six-lane greenfield highway connecting Salem and Chennai on a third route. Members of 26 various organisations have also joined hands and formed a federation – Pasumai Vazhi Salai Ethirppu Koottamaippu – to express their solidarity against the Rs 11,000 crore  . The villagers were fuming over the project, which has been designed to facilitate corporate and multi-national companies involved in iron ore mining, a police officer said, adding, “If the authorities begin the process of land acquisition, there will be law and order issues.”
 
 The members of the federation have been busy constituting the village-level committees, comprising farmers whose land has been marked for acquisition for implementing the 274.3km long highway project. “The objective of the micro-level committee is to bring all affected parties under a common umbrella to save our livelihood and environment. This will also help in collecting details of all households and farmlands coming under acquisition,” said chief coordinator of the federation S Abiraman. The project cuts through 129 villages in Tiruvannamalai district and they would form as many committees, he added.
 
 So far, around 50 committees have been formed in Tiruvannamalai. Each panel has seven to 20 members. The members of the federation in Salem, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri have formed over 100 village-level committees, and more committees will be formed to cover all affected villages.
 
 P Velavan of Irulapatti village in Pappireddi taluk, Dharmapuri district, said four acres of his farmland along with house and cattle shed have been marked for land acquisition. Eight other farmers in the village were also facing the problem of losing their fertile land. “We have created over 30 WhatsApp groups in our district to keep everyone updated about the developments. We are in touch with farmers in neighbouring districts also,” he said.
 
 Apart from this, the federation members along with villagers have also been bombarding the district administration with petitions and applications under RTI Act. “We have submitted hundreds of petitions to collector and special RDO (land acquisition) seeking details about the project under RTI. We are waiting for the reply, even while seeking help from others to save our farmland and forests,” said L Azhakesan, a resident of Tiruvannamalai and a member of the federation.
 
 
