NEW DELHI: With police claiming that V K Jain, advisor to chief minister  , had admitted to seeing Aam Aadmi Party   assaulting   during the meeting at the CM’s residence on Monday night, the party came all out on Thursday to allege that this was a conspiracy to topple the state government and pave the way for President’s rule. AAP also charged BJP with using the lieutenant governor as “a weapon” for this purpose.

 AAP maintained that the cops had forced Jain to revise his statement, which now was at variance from his earlier one. The party has been claiming since Tuesday, when the controversy over the alleged assault of the chief secretary erupted, that there is a “well-planned conspiracy to bring down the elected government of Delhi”.
 
 Claiming that Jain changed his statement under duress, AAP’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh asserted, “In his first statement to police, Jain said that he was in the washroom when the purported assault took place and so he had no knowledge of what happened in the room in his absence. However, police now claim Jain told them that on his return from the bathroom, he found the chief secretary searching for his spectacles, indicating the probability of an assault.”
 
 Singh wondered how a person who was empathic on Wednesday that he had witnessed no assault could have so suddenly changed his statement.
 
 Pointing out that the medical report put the physical assault on the top bureaucrat at after midnight, AAP leader Ashutosh claimed CCTV footage showed Prakash leaving the CM’s residence at 11:30pm, implying that Prakash got injured after he left the meeting venue. "It might be that he fell in the bathroom of his house or got hurt somewhere else. He should explain how he sustained the injuries," Ashutosh argued, while maintaining that even on Tuesday when the bureaucrat spoke to the media, there had been no visible marks of injuries on his face.
 
 The party castigated the LG and the cops for "ignoring" the complaints filed by MLAs Prakash Jarwal and Ajay Dutt that the chief secretary had made casteist remarks against them at the Monday meeting, on which the cops were bound to act under the ST/SC Act.
 
 AAP raised the ante by demanding action on the complaints of assault filed by minister Imran Hussain and   vice-chairman Ashish Khetan on Tuesday. Party leaders took on the LG and police for “inaction” regarding the heckling faced by Hussain and Ashish Khetan at the hands of an unruly crowd at the Delhi Secretariat when they arrived for work. Singh alleged that Delhi Police and the LG were not guided by the Constitution, but by the vested interests of BJP.
 
 At Thursday’s press conference, senior AAP leaders exhibited video footage of the attack on Hussain in which they alleged an official of the rank of deputy secretary and four other government employees working in different departments at the secretariat could be seen engaged in mob frenzy. “Though this official and the employees come to the secretariat every day, police have not arrested them despite the solid evidence available against them. They reported to work even on Thursday,” an AAP leader said.
 
 The party said it was unfair that state minister Rajendra Pal Gautam was detained during a protest outside Union home minister Rajnath Singh’s residence, while those demonstrating outside deputy CM Manish Sisodia’s residence were not.
 
 
