CHENNAI : A 27-year-old software engineer was kidnapped by two strangers who barged into the call taxi in which she was travelling on Friday night and stole her debit card before dumping her on the roadside a few kilometres away. Police said the duo entered the car when the driver had stopped on the road to attend nature's call. 

 The duo subsequently covered their faces with handkerchiefs and directed the driver Vinod Kumar, 24, to take them towards   road, said a police officer. They seized the ATM debit card of the woman   and forced her to reveal her four digit PIN number before asking the driver to stop at the   toll plaza where two accomplices were waiting for them.
 
 After passing on the card and the PIN number to the other two men, the duo in the car asked the driver to head towards   near Ambattur. When the car was nearing the   at Surapet, they dumped Kavya on the roadside and sped away, added the police officer.
 
 A panic-stricken Kavya sought the help of some passersby on the dimly lit street and alerted the police control room. A police team subsequently rushed to the spot and rescued the woman who is a resident of   in Avadi. Based on Kavya's complaint, police registered a case and launched a hunt for the abductors.
 
 Police personnel managed to trace the call taxi driver as she had booked the vehicle through a cab aggregator. Police are questioning the driver to find out if he knew the abductors. Police are also looking into the calls made from the driver's mobile phone and are investigating whether he received any call after picking up Kavya. 
 
 Police have collected CCTV camera footage recorded at the traffic signal on   and in Ambattur. Police personnel took the driver in their vehicle from Ambattur to the spot where Kavya was abandoned on the roadside in Surapet. "We asked him to retrace the route to help us identify any CCTV cameras or police presence along the way to help us in the probe."
 
 Meanwhile, police asked Kavya to verify if any money had been withdrawn from her bank account through the stolen debit card. But Kavya confirmed that no transactions had been made. 
 
 
