THANE: A police constable from   has been   for illegally procuring some   records ( ), which were found in the possession of the private detectives who have been arrested by Thane crime branch. 

  Constable, Bhubaneswar Das, was arrested by officials of Haflong police station after the Thane crime branch set them a communication regarding his role in the call data record case. Das used to work with the cyber cell of Dima Hasao police superintendent office. His role came to light after the Thane crime branch sent certain phone numbers, which were found with the detectives, to mobile operators for investigation, said a senior police officer. 
 
 The mobile operators, after carrying out an analysis, led the police to the email address of Dima Hasao police superintendent office in Assam, which had sourced a CDR. "The superintendent office conducted an internal inquiry and found that Das was responsible for illegally sourcing it and giving it to a private detective arrested by the Thane crime branch," said the officer.
 
 A source said that the constable was involved in the scam for the past one year in order to earn a quick buck. A copy of that particular CDR has been recovered from Das's laptop, he said. "Das has confessed to his crime. He has been placed under suspension and sent to jail," added the officer. 
 
 TOI was first to report that out of the 284 CDRs that were illegally found in the possession of the accused, the police have got confirmation about how and who sourced them for 160 numbers. The Thane crime branch has communicated about the same to more than 16 police commissionerates and rural police stations across India. Earlier, it had come to light that   police constable Nikhil Khawade had misused the email address of superitendent police of Yavatmal in connivance with cyber crime expert Ajinkya Nagargoje to procure CDRs.
 
  A separate case has been registered against Das at the Haflong police station as well and has been booked under relevant sections of Information Technology Act as well as section 5 of Official Secrets Act. 
 
  Senior officials from the Thane crime branch said that they are gradually receiving communications from their counterparts from across India and many are conducting internal inquiries. "Once they zero in on the black sheep, the accused will be booked," added the officer. 
 
 
