The distribution of Rs 13 cr as synchronisation royalty dues by   ( ) was a big breakthrough for Bollywood. Talking to BT, chairperson  , writer-lyricist, talks about IPRS’ future plans to empower the artistes.

 Not many Bollywood music lovers are aware that whenever they listen to an old favourite on radio, television, weddings, advertisements, event, or a recreated version of it in a film, there is royalty owed to the composer and the lyricist of that song. And by law, that royalty money should ideally go to them. However, that was not happening for decades. Writers and music directors were constantly at loggerheads with music companies over this till a few music companies got together last month and distributed Rs 13 crore as synchronisation royalties that was due to the lyricists and composers. With this, the artistes and music companies buried the hatchet, finally. Facilitated by Indian Performing Rights Society (IPRS), its chairperson, writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar throws light on the issues plaguing Bollywood music and their plans to strengthen it... 
 
 
 
 “The `13-crore distribution due to lyricists and composers was a warm and friendly gesture by the music companies. Since there was no log of songs, the money was divided between all the members. The amount is not really huge, if you think of the possibilities in the future — this amount was given to us by only seven companies as last six years’ dues for a single limited usage. Synchronisation royalty is owed when a song is used in an ad, video or by another filmmaker in his movie. Apart from this, there is mechanical royalty, performance royalty and other such royalties, which are still pending. But the good thing is that the composers and lyricists will finally get their due.”
 
 
 
 “With the IPRS going online, people can apply for a license to use our songs and pay online. The physical transfer of money has been eradicated and this will stop mismanagement and corruption.”
 
 
 
 “The right to royalty was optional earlier — one could waver it, transfer it to someone else’s name or give it to the publisher (the producer). And this led to many artistes not getting their dues. Since the market was limited, the artistes used to sign on the dotted line. The only way they could be helped was by restraining them legally. For the artiste’s protection, royalty has been made non-transferable and non-waiverable. While copyright can be transferred, right to royalty will always be retained by the artiste.”
 
 
 
 “Our music is popular across the world, even in countries like Argentina and Peru, but we aren’t able to collect the kind of royalty we deserve. It means that our collection and network isn’t perfect. We need to spread the network, find the leakage and identify areas where we aren’t able to collect royalty properly. We have taken up these issues seriously.”
 
 
 
 “With hundreds of television and radio channels that play Bollywood tracks, the IPRS has plans to spend money to develop appropriate software and use technical facilities wherein they will be able to collect proper information globally with detailed logs. If your song is played for 20 seconds, you’ll get money. But if the music director’s spelling or the writer’s name is wrong, the money won’t reach them. You won’t get the money if a particular song isn’t present in the database. What’s needed to make it work is a complete data of all the Bollywood songs (that run into lakhs) with its lyricist, composer and publisher. It is tedious and will also cost money, but it is worth it. The collection in the South industry isn’t as good as it ought to be. I don’t think great artistes like  , AR Rahman, Vairamuthu, Bali are getting royalties as smoothly as they should. Perhaps, we are short of people, or short of network and all this has to be looked into.”
 
 
 
 “While the labels may have money, the kind of goodwill artistes have everywhere is unparalleled. Artistes can open doors anywhere. If our goodwill and their financial muscle come together, we can win the world.”
 
