New Delhi: The Supreme Court’s decision to set up a fresh SIT for probe in 186 anti-Sikh riot cases shows judicial intervention is the only reason victims and their kin have hope for justice.

 While details about nature of crime and names of accused in these 186 cases is yet to emerge, the new SIT may pose problems for senior politicians who have been accused by the victims of leading mob violence against Sikhs.
 
 Congress leaders Sajjan Kumar and Jagdhish Tytler were those who faced criminal proceedings. While Kumar has been acquitted in one of the FIR’s, a special court has rejected three closure reports filed by CBI against Tytler.
 
 Allegations against Tytler stem from riots at Gurdwara Pulbangash in north Delhi where three people were killed on November 1,  , a day after the assassination of then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Tytler, who has denied any role in the riots, has been given a clean chit by CBI thrice, but it has been directed by the court to further investigate the matter.
 
 Speaking to TOI hours after the SC order on Wednesday, senior advocate H S Phulka, who has been the face of the 1984 riot victims, said there is no clarity about the 186 cases, which will be probed afresh. “A clearer picture will emerge in the next few days,” he said.
 
 At present there are two prosecuting agencies involved in handling the cases — CBI and 2015 constituted SIT — which vets old cases that were closed by the Delhi Police.
 
 Last year, CBI had informed the court that 10 FIRs were registered in Delhi against Kumar after the assassination of Indira Gandhi. The original probe agency, Delhi Police, had closed 241 cases citing lack of evidence initially and the 2005 Justice Nanavati Commission had recommended reopening of only four of them, which were then investigated by CBI.
 
 In two of them, CBI filed a chargesheet and in one, five persons, including a former MLA Balwant Khokhar were convicted by a trial court in 2013.
 
 This is the same case of Delhi Cantonment where Kumar was acquitted prompting CBI to challenge it in Delhi high court.
 
 Meanwhile SIT, operating separately, had grilled Kumar in connection with cases closed by police in Punjabi Bagh, Janakpuri and Vikaspuri. In fact, in the latter two cases, SIT had even lodged a case where Kumar secured anticipatory bail.
 
 The complaint in Janakpuri relates to the killing of two Sikhs, Sohan Singh and his son-in-law Avtar Singh, on November 1, 1984 and in other, another Sikh, Gurcharan Singh, was burnt on November 2, 1984 under Vikaspuri Police Station. 
 
 Interestingly, while hearing appeals filed by the convicts in the Delhi Cantonment case,   too had made a decisive intervention, reopening five criminal cases lodged immediately after the riots whose reference it found in the appeal.
 
 In March last year, HC had issued showcause notices to 11 accused in five 1984   cases, who were acquitted in 1986, asking why it should not order reinvestigation and retrial against them as they had faced allegations of “horrifying crimes against humanity”. 
 
 
