JAIPUR: The   ( ) on February 7 issued notices to Union environment ministry and the governments of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana over illegal operation of brick kilns.

 State pollution control board has been directed to inspect the brickfields and examine if they are complying with the environmental norms. The brick kilns that have come in the line of fire in the NGT order in Rajasthan are located in Alwar and  .
 
 According to NGT observation, “These brick kilns have been operating without complying with the pollution norms causing immense air and water pollution and also without obtaining necessary clearances from the concerned statutory authorities. In the event of them being non-compliant, the State PCBs shall initiate appropriate action against them in accordance with law. A compliance report shall be filed on the next date of hearing on 6th March, 2018.”
 
 The order of the NGT is in the matter of Shailesh Singh Vs. Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (E.P.C.A.) & Others dated 07/02/2018 regarding large scale operation of illegal brick kiln in different Districts of the states of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, NCT Delhi with specific reference to the districts Bharatpur and Alwar in Rajasthan.
 
 State pollution control board of each of the four states has been directed to inspect the brickfields and examine if they are complying with the environmental norms. NGT has directed the state pollution control board of each of the states of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, NCR Delhi to examine the allegations contained in original application and inspect all brick fields within the districts.
 
 At the moment, there are 113 brick kilns that have consent to operate in Bharatpur and 142 in Alwar from the state pollution control board. While some have moved on to the zig-zag technology that is less polluting few are still functioning with the old technology that is polluting. However, the environment pollution control & prevention authority has granted permission to these units to function with the old technology from March 1, 2018 to June 30, 2018 for one season only.
 
 
