The   will give you a sugar rush like nothing else. A thousand different varieties of delectable sweets from 28 Indian states and 14 countries, including France, Germany, Brazil, Cameroon, Iran, Kazakhstan, South Korea, Yemen, Philippines, Turkey, Ethiopia et al, will be on display at the fest. “the best part about the festival is that these are not commercial sweetmakers who are participating. these sweets are brought in by people of different origins who’ve made Hyderabad their home. With their desserts, they are bringing forth a sweet slice of their native cuisine. Over 50 varieties of   sweets like maledamudda, taralamudda, pallilamudda, ravalamudda will also be available. The festival is the sweetest ode to the cosmopolitan nature of Hyderabad,” says Harikrishna Mamidi, Director, Department of Language and Culture, adding. “The festivities at Parade Ground celebrate five elements of our culture. Apart from the kites and sweets, there is a food festival, handicrafts mela and lots of cultural programmes. Dances by groups from Turkey, Iran, Phillipines, Korea et al will be presented, besides those from Telangana and rest of India. There will be a special focus on Northeast Indian states.”
Can’t try all 1000 sweets on display? Don’t fret. We have handpicked a few you must not miss. 
 
 
 A group from EFLU, led by Spanish Professor, Nadia Robledillo who has been in Hyderabad since last September, has brought in some delectable Spanish delights for Hyderabadi tastebuds. “We have two spanish desserts — Calatrava and Churro. While Calatrava is a sort of bread pudding made of bread, milk and eggs, topped with warm caramel sauce, Churros are fried flour sticks, which can be dipped in different sweet sauces,” says Sheetal Wagh a Spanish Professor from the same department. 
 
 
 n Brazilian Couple, Jacson Roberto Cruz and Bruna Cruz who’ve made Hyderabad their home since 2013, have some eight varieties of Brazilian desserts lined up. “I did this all all alone — my Brazillian friends ditched me the last minute. But my wife and I are sure our sweets will be a hit,” quips Jacson. From corn-based Cural, corn-and-coconut flavoured cake, to Brigadeiro (a chocolate ball) and   (coconut flavoured ball), the couple have planned different menus for each day. “Hyderabadi sweets are difficult to make and are more biscuity. But ours are very different. It would be a pleasure for my wife and me to bring these tastes to the city folk,” says Jacson, who is a football coach.
 
 
 
 Yenenesh Mokenene from Ethiopia, who is a PHD student from  , has on offer an innovative dish which is her inspired by the famous Ethiopian coffee. “Our sweets are mostly liquid in consistency and take over a week to prepare. So I have tried to make some thing on my own, which i am calling ‘Black Gold’. It is of the size of coffee beans, and is infused with real coffee from Ethiopia,” says Yenenesh, who has spent over 10 years in the city for her education. She would also be preparing some Turkish delights like Baklava and Molava, which though not indigenous, are quite popular with East Ethiopians.
 
 
 
 French student. Boyer Melitiande, who has been in the city for just over 4 months says she’s super excited to be part of the fest. “I prepare french food daily for myself and my friends, but making some authentic French food for Hyderabadis will be good fun,” says Boyer, who has on offer an almond butter sweet along with Tart aux pommes from France. 
  
 
 
 Think you know baklava? Well, then Osman Kayaoglu Marjan and his group of friends from Turkey have a surprise from you. Their version is the authentic baklava, they say. While it’s a common sweet for Hyderabadis, Osman will present four “authentic varieties”. The group will also be bringing in sweets like Shekkar Pare.
 
