NAVI MUMBAI: While the Nerul passenger water terminal for water transport to Ferry Wharf (phase I) of   is scheduled to be commissioned in May, 2019, ahead of the maiden take off, MMB and   were planning to start joint water transport operations this year itself for connecting the twin cities of   by water transport

 Maharashtra Maritime Board will be engaging into joint operations for the first time, said CEO, Vikram Kumar. The ride planned by both the senior bureaucrats heading the bodies next week planned on Tuesday (March 26) can be one of the three places ---Ferry Wharf/Bhaucha Dhakka, Gateway and Marine Drive. 
 
 ``We will decide on Tuesday, the CEO said and added, `` the most attractive of the routes will be selected for commercial exploitation.’’ NMMC, commissioner,   confirmed the joint operation plan, but said the civic general body nod will have to be taken.
 
 Both the senior officers will travel with a technical team in a hovercraft of the   from sector 15, Belapur for a ``first hand experience.’’ Coast Guard operates two hovercrafts from the nearby Cidco jetty at Sarovar Vihar along the Panvel creek for surveillance of Indian waters. Sarovar Vihar is in sector 11, Belapur
 
 The marina that is soon going to start is along the creek in sector 15. The location being close to the upcoming Navi Mumbai international airport will also facilitate flyers to avail the sea route.
 
 CM   is the chairman of Maharashtra maritime board and has been keen on speeding up inland waterways transportation to ease off vehicle congestion on the roads. The two cities have an average count of 1.55 lakh passenger car unit (both ways) on the Vashi bridge that is currently under financial bid tendering by the MSRDC for lane expansion.
 
 NMMC commissioner, N Ramaswamy and Vikram Kumar will jointly undertake the ride to study the logistics, cost and operations of the boat service. Both the senior bureaucrats confirmed the ride and it is scheduled in morning hours. If found feasible, which is rather likely, then the two will join hands, sign an agreement and start the boat service to SoBo. The details will be worked out later, the two senior officers said.
 
 The cost of operation, the functioning of hovercraft will be the prime focus, the MMB said. In case there is a problem with draft then they will try the marina stretch just close by from where MMB and the strategic partner will start the marina operations soon. Vikram said, `` we are transferring the land today,’’ to the strategic partner with whom MMB has entered into a PPP project for the operations on a revenue sharing basis. Cidco has transferred land of 7.04 acres to MMB on a revenue sharing basis.
 
