KOLKATA: Buses on several routes have stopped plying altogether and many more routes have seen an appreciable dip in the number of services as   operators try out various economic models to stay ahead of spiking   prices.

 
 
  
 
 Some routes, like 218/1 (plying between Baruipur and Santragachhi), 252 (Basirhat-Esplanade), the   minibus route, 77 (Achhipur-Esplanade) and 79C (Shyambazar-Hasnabad), have stopped services completely. Other routes, like 12 (Bardartala-Jhilmil) and the Sarada Park-Ruby minibus, have started curtailing their journey and are plying between six and eight kilometres after the office rush hour.
 
 But the most common route that buses are taking to save on use of fuel involves reducing the number of mandatory round trips. Each bus usually makes four round trips every day but, over the past five days, many buses have stopped doing so, plying only two or three round trips.
 
 As bus operators try out various methods of reducing cost and minimising their loss, commuters have been left high and dry. 
 
 IT sector professional   used to take the 18/1 route to commute between Shakuntala Park in Behala and the Ruby crossing. Sodepur resident and City College student Raktim Haldar used to take the 78/1 route to college. Both of them, like thousands of other commuters, now spend more than double their usual fare as they take auto-rickshaws for a part of the journey and then switch over to other bus routes to save time. Drivers at some major terminuses, like Esplanade, Babughat and Karunamoyee, said making a stable profit had become impossible.
 
 Route 30B (Gouripur-Babughat) driver Kashinath Das said average round-trip collections of Rs 1,600-Rs 1,700 had dropped to around Rs 1,000. “The commission we earn has reduced drastically,” he said.
 
 Owners, too, who get 78% of the earnings, have suffered. “We end up spending Rs 4,000-Rs 4,200 on diesel for four round trips every day. Add Rs 200 for police fines, Rs 800 for maintenance cost and Rs 500 to the syndicate and the daily operational cost comes to around Rs 5,500-Rs 5,700. We are now losing about Rs 1000 a day. We are doing two round trips merely to stay on the route,” claimed the owner of a bus on the 30B route.
 
 The result has been drastic on the road. Two routes — 30B and 30B/1 — had a total of 40 buses. Merely 22 are still on the road. Of the 49 buses on the popular 78/1 (Rahara-Baughat) route, 38 still ply. “We are still making three trips a day but the revolt from unions may mean we will just stop plying in another week,” claimed a bus owner.
 
 Only about half the 34 buses on route 237 (Birati-Babughat) are still running. The Babughat starter of route 218 (Babughat-Baruipur) said only 25 of the 42 buses were on the road. The syndicate cost has been reduced from Rs 110 a trip to Rs 82 but that has barely helped.
 
 Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates saidoperating buses had become unviable. “Many have left the trade. But some of us are still operating because of our commitment to society. But, if there is no immediate revision of fare, the private bus trade will go into permanent coma. Fares were last revised in September 2014 when diesel price was Rs 54 a litre. The situation has become such that we cannot afford to call a strike for our demands.”
 
 
