Madurai: It may not have a flashy name board or a grand interior, but this restaurant continues to pull large crowds which do not mind having dinner on the roadside. In fact, some of the city’s best mutton dishes, especially the ``mutton sukka’’, are available in this restaurant on wheels, which has been operating at the same spot for over 22 years. Better known as ``patti kadai’’, the roadside restaurant is located behind the ABT Maruti showroom on the Madurai-Dindigul highway. Chief cook Sundarammal, 89, the mother of Thavaraj who runs the shop, says the hotel offers a variety of mutton dishes including organ meat like liver and intestine besides the popular ``mutton sukka’’ which, many agree, is something to die for. What then drives the taste of the food in the restaurant? “The quality of the masala used,” says Thavaraj. ``The recipe of the masalas has been passed down the family through generations and the spices and chillies are ground in specific quantities on a daily basis for use in the various dishes,’’ he said. Any remains from the daily masala paste is discarded as freshness is their mantra. Sundarammal, sporting dangling earrings (thantattis), and adorning a kandangi saree worn without a blouse in the traditional south Indian style comes along with her son to the shop when it opens at 6.30 p.m and goes on till 11.30 p.m. When she is not serving, the elderly lady sits on the stool and watches others relishing her dishes. ``It is just my mother’s passion that makes these dishes so tasty,’’ says Thavaraj. They only source goat meat and no lamb is used. ``I ensure that I get the mutton as soon as the animal is slaughtered and am very selective of the meat as it is the most important ingredient in our dishes,’’ says Thavaraj. ``Madurai people are very choosy about their meat and almost all parts are consumed in different forms. One mistake in the recipe could spell doom for the shop,’’ he said. Sukka and organ meat preparations are offered in 50 gram dishes costing Rs 90 per plate. Idlis and dosas are the main dishes and eggs are served on demand. ``The sukka here is clearly the best and on my annual visits to Madurai from the US I ensure that I have at least two meals here,’’ said K Venkatesh, a software professional from Detroit USA. Piping hot idlis are made at the site on a small gas stove while the mutton gravy simmers above smouldering coal pieces on another. K Ramesh, manager of a textile unit, was seen with his clients from Bangalore for dinner here. ``One of my best meals,’’ he said explaining why he keeps coming back to the city. Once a week, a family dinner is a must here for the Ravichandran family from Arapalayam. ``The masala is fresh and never causes stomach problems, it’s worth the money,’’ he said. Thavaraj maintains a visitor’s book which is kept on the roof of his restaurant. It is filled with reviews of people from far and near who have rated it as one of the best. Some of them encouraged him to print his own visiting card so that they could circulate it to friends who planned to visit Madurai. This would also help many tourists or customers from outside who could identify the shop from the photographs shown by their friends. ``I am illiterate but sometimes get my staff to read out what is written and it always encourages me to do my best the next day,’’ says Thavaraj.