Kolkata: Last week, a   couple came up with a curious problem. The woman told a Kutupalong camp-in-charge she didn’t want to stay on with her husband. Despite all attempts to persuade a rethink, she refused to budge. On prodding further, she confessed to have found love in a local Bangladeshi man.

 The hitch was that marriages of Bangladeshi residents with Rohingyas have been banned since 2014 to try to prevent the refugees from seeking backdoor citizenship. Even this January, the high court in Dhaka had dismissed a legal challenge from a man whose son had married a Rohingya teenager in a Muslim ceremony in September.
 
 The Kutupalong woman, however, refused to pay heed to any argument. “What do you do when it comes to love? Haven’t you seen ‘Veer-Zaara’?” said Shamimul Huq Pavel, the camp-in-charge of five camps at Kutupalong. For a split second, it was surprising to hear a Yash Chopra film named in the context of dispute-settlement.
 
 For Cupid-struck refugees, Shah Rukh Khan and Preity Zinta’s classic screen tale of cross-border love and separation is a beacon of hope. “I finally had to let the woman follow her heart,” Pavel said.
 
 Love always wins. So, stories of cross-border love aren’t uncommon between locals and refugees. Marriage, however, is a different proposition. A rape survivor at the camp confessed to have fallen in love with a local. “My husband had tried to protect me but they opened fire and left him in a pool of blood,” she said. Eight months later, she says “I have someone in mind. But where is the money to get married?” 
 
 There are, however, instances of refugees getting married in the camps. A symbolic ritual involves the man giving a ‘naakphool’ (nosepin) and ‘kaanphool’ (earring) to his wife-to-be. If the marriage is dissolved, the wife simply returns these ornaments to the husband.
 
 Multiple marriages, among men, are frequent. Among women, there are many who remarry once their husbands have moved on.
 
 But what happens to their children? “They stay either with father or mother,” Pavel said. But what if both have more kids from subsequent marriages? “Children are never abandoned,” he said.
 
 Pavel sounds optimistic but what happens to the sense of belonging for these nowhere-kids remains a million-dollar question.
 
 
