TRICHY: Expressing displeasure at the number of   going unreported in the district,  , nodal organisation of   on Saturday blamed the ineffective functioning of the village watchdog committee for such violations. 

 Going by the data released by the organisation, the anonymous calls to Childline helpline 1098 prevented 62 child marriages in Trichy from April 2017 to January 2018. In 2016-17, 52 child marriages were stopped.
 
 Yet, the incidences of child marriages continue in some places and go unnoticed because of the new tricks being employed by the family members of the minor girls and also the bridegroom. 
 
 According to Childline, about 20% of the child marriages could not be stopped because of lack of coordination from the village level committee. Village watchdog committee consisting of members such as panchayat president was entrusted with the task of preventing child marriages and other violations. In Trichy, around 200 villages out of the total 404 had formed the committee while the remaining haven’t. 
 
 “Village watchdog committee should educate the villagers about the consequences of child marriages and prevent them from taking place. Unfortunately, the committee requires awareness which we are planning to provide,” said director of the nodal organisation,  . 
 
 While child marriages were prevalent in Uppiliyapuram, Thuraiyur and Thathaingarpettai areas in 2016-17, areas like Manapparai, Vaiyampatti, Marungapuri witnessed the high number in 2017-18, according to Childline. 
 
 City coordinator of Childline, S Thiyagarajan spoke about the clandestine ways adopted by the people to hide child marriages. “There were incidences of minor girls being made to live in the house of the bridegrooms without solemnising the wedding. They come to light through village health nurses (VHN) only after the girls become pregnant,” said Thiyagarajan. 
 
 Childline has also planned to put up posters about the awareness about the child marriage, child sexual abuse and other violence against the children in the educational institutions.
 
 
