As if the   bursting into flames, sporadically, for five years was not enough, watching it turn gray and dull is even more disheartening. What is even scarier is that after each fire, hutments crop up overnight in the mangroves at Yari Road. A fire in the second week of January was the final straw — it has brought together a group of societies, called  , to take up the cause of saving the mangroves in the area. The community is known to take up issues plaguing the area, like traffic jams, increasing number of hawkers, garbage collection, street lighting, encroachments, etc. They have also decided to organise walks inside mangroves to create an awareness of it and its significance to maintain an ecological balance.

 
 Ashok Singhal, a resident of Yari Road, saw the fire that engulfed the mangroves early this month, when he was taking a walk in the evening. He immediately brought it to the notice of others. “We were shocked to see matchboxes full of matchsticks strewn all around. They were probably dumped by trucks that are often seen in the zone. Due to timely intervention, the fire did not spread to the rest of the mangroves. Fires and encroachments have become a regular occurrence in the last 10-15 years. Each outbreak of fire leads to encroachments. Vehicles as big as trucks easily enter the thick mangroves, flatten the ground and pave way for more hutments.”
 
  
 
 
 On entering the mangroves for a walk, it gets cooler even as visible signs of destruction assail our vision in front of us — the greens have been replaced by ashes and the smell of smoke is still in the air. Says  , who took the initiative to organise the walks, “The mangroves are a green spot in our area, where the temperatures are two-three degrees lesser than the world outside it. However, they are now a dumping ground for construction debris and junk, apart from providing shelter to the hutments that have taken over.”
 Voicing the association’s fears of the mangroves going into the hands of a builder, Ullal adds, “The modus operandi that builders employ is to support these people who settle here, so that they can later claim the land for themselves. The number of people staying are not only growing, but they are now turning hostile, too. Tyres are burnt often and it is polluting the air.”
 
 
 After the recent fire incident, the residents have filed an FIR and are waiting for the police to take some action. Says Ullal, “We have pictures to help us prove how the mangroves were ruined, following which we will try to regenerate the mangroves. We’ve been told by the BMC that they will seal the place. They had done that earlier, but it was not backed up with proper security. We are in touch with all departments concerned, who have acknowledged that there is trouble. We have also been tweeting about the problem. The next step may be to take them to court, since all of us feel that enough is enough!”
 
 
 Vijay Ullal has a solution to the incessant encroachment issue. “The mangroves, which is home to various birds, butterflies, flora and fauna along with the waterbody, makes this area beautiful. Can you imagine something like this in the heart of a city like Mumbai? It can easily be converted into a mangrove tourism destination just like the way they do in Malaysia. They are known to conduct walking trails for people to enjoy the peaceful
 surroundings.”
 
 
 
