CHENNAI:   have performed like a well-oiled machine in the   ( ). Organised in defence, compact in midfield and clinical upfront, the Steve Coppell-coached side has beaten their rivals comfortably in their last three matches. On Sunday, though, they found their match in   who held them 1-1 at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium here.

 
  proved to be the super substitute for Chennaiyin as his 90th minute strike cancelled out Wellington Priorie’s first-half goal. The draw meant it’s status quo in the points table as Chennaiyin remained third with 28 points from 16 games and Jamshedpur fourth with 26 after playing the same number of matches.
 
 In a match involving teams which pride themselves on structured defence, chances were far and few in between. Still, Chennaiyin managed to find some space in the opposition defence due to Jaime Gavilan and Raphael Augusto’s creativity. But, Jamshedpur defenders Andre Bikey and Jose Espinosa Arroyo were up to the task as they managed to bottle up the opposition’s most potent threat in striker Jeje Lalpekhlua. It resulted in Chennaiyin relying on long-rangers and set-pieces. However, with most of the efforts being wayward, they hardly rattled the opposition defence.
 
 Jamshedpur, on the other hand, relied on counter attacks through quick wing-play and created the first opportunity of the match in the 25th minute. Jerry Mawihmingthanga made a sparkling run on the right before putting in a well-directed cross for Farukh Choudhary. The forward did well to escape his marker Mailson Alves but his header missed the target by a few inches.
 
 Chennaiyin, though, got a taste of Jamshedpur’s precision seven minutes later. An Andrew Bikey free-kick from the centre was headed clear by Chennaiyin’s Inigo Calderon from inside the box. Priorie, who was standing 23 yards away, saw the cleared ball coming towards him. In that split second, the Brazilian adjusted his position — he took a step back to balance himself and connected the volley. The powerful right-footer had class written all over it as it gave Chennaiyin goalkeeper Karanjit Singh no chance and found the back of the net.
 
 Once Jamshedpur tasted blood, they grew in confidence and started to attack more. This unsettled Chennaiyin defence and coach John Gregory introduced Rafi, Rene Mihelic and Anirudh Thapa midway in the second half to bring more variety in attack. His moves worked as the three linked up play brilliantly and started pounding Jamshedpur’s defence with a flurry of attacks.
 
 Jamshedpur finally caved in the final minute of regulation time when Rene’s corner was headed home by an unmarked Rafi to bring cheer to the 13,000-strong home crowd.
 
 
