DUMKA: The priest community of Deoghar has taken strong exception to the move of derecognising the famous Babadham Shiva as one the Dwadash (12) Jyotirlingas during a three-day congregation of Hindu priests in Ujjain ( ) earlier this month.

 The congregation of priests from all the twelve Jyotirlingas was jointly organised by the Madhya Pradesh government and the management committee of the Ujjain-based Mahakaleswar Shiva temple from January 5. 
 
 The   temple in Deoghar has a dual distinction of being a Dwadash Jyotirlinga and a Shaktipitha. Lakhs of devotees from across the country and abroad flock to the Babadham temple every year, with the number touching the 50 lakh-mark during the month-long Shrawani Mela.
 
 Members of Panda Dharma Rakshini Sabha (the priests' body of the Babadham temple) who attended the congregation said that a booklet issued during the event listed a Shiva temple in Parli, Maharashtra, as a Jyotirlinga instead of the Deoghar temple.
 
 Durlabh Mishra, a senior functionary of the Panda Dharma Rakshini Sabha who attended the congregation, said: "This is a deliberate move to create confusion among devotees. The   temple in Deoghar is mentioned in mythological texts like Shiva Purana."
 
 Mishra added: "The Deoghar temple was declared a Jyotirlinga long ago by Adi Shankaracharya and the torchbearers of his legacy. It was ridiculous to invite a delegation of Babadham priests in a congregation of priests of all the twelve Jyotirlingas on one hand and then derecognise it as one."
 
 "Some elements with vested interests have been trying to create confusion among devotees by introducing detorted texts," Mishra said, adding that the local priests body will approach the top religious leaders, including the Shankaracharyas, to resolve the deadlock. "We will even approach the appropriate court for a resolution," he said.
 
 Vinod Dat Dwari, another functionary of the local priests' body said said the Deoghar delegation challenged the organisors to a debate on the issue. "We registered our protest with the Madhya Pradesh government and the management committee of the Mahakaleswar Shiva temple (also a Dwadash Jyotirlinga) immediately. They have assured us to resolve the dispute by consulting senior religious heads."
 
 
 
 
