PUNE: Driving on the wrong side is the norm on the Sangamwadi ramp of the flyover which is meant for vehicles coming from the Sangamwadi bypass towards Shivajinagar via  . 

 
  
  
 
 The grade separator was supposed to be used by motorists for travel to Khadki through the old   Highway.
 
 However, the pipeline work for about a 100 metre-stretch has put the Khadki-bound flank out of service, and motorists have been urged to travel through Shivajinagar and the Wakdewadi subway to reach the old highway, a detour of almost three km. 
 
 The traffic police have requested motorists to travel towards RTO through the grade separator, take a U-turn from the CID office, and avail the westbound flank of flyover to go towards Khadki.
 
 But vehicle users like autorickshaw drivers and motorcyclists, to avoid these detours, take a right turn at the point where the Sangamwadi ramp merges the Sancheti-bound flank, to take the Khadki-CoEP flank where two-way traffic has been temporarily allowed, in light of the dug-up grade separator. 
 
 The wrong-side driving has caused accidents during peak traffic hours, and is responsible for traffic snarls, which are now a regular sight on the flyover.
 
 Asif Shaikh, a local scrap dealer in the sprawling   just under the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP) flyover, has lost count of the number of accidents on the flyover resulting from wrong-side driving.
 
 “There are some mishaps every day. Since people cannot turn right towards the old Pune-Mumbai highway, they take the ramp from Sangamwadi and turn right, taking the wrong side towards the Khadki flank. There are frequent head-on collisions, and traffic often comes to a halt in the morning,” Shaikh added.
 
 The traffic police claimed they are doing all they can to mitigate the situation, but pointed to work at the grade separator.
 
 “ I have to reach my office (on the Pune-bound flank of the old highway) early, so I often take this route,” said a wrong-side driving motorcyclist, asking for forgiveness, after colliding with a car travelling towards Sancheti Hospital.
 
 “We always have personnel deployed on the flyover at peak morning and evening hours to catch violators, and prosecute them. But the main problem there is the work that is going on at the road below, which is causing many to travel on the wrong side. That problem should be solved in a couple of months,” deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ashok Morale told TOI.
 
 At The Risk Of Their Lives 
 
 Rampant violations on the COEP flyover
 
 · Motorists unable to turn right at the grade road from Sangamwadi towards Khadki
 
 · Motorists claim that alternative routes are too long
 
 · Some of them are turning right after availing the Sangamwadi ramp towards Khadki, where entry is prohibited
 
 · Employees of offices on the Pune-bound flank of the old highway also drive on the wrong-side
 
 They take a U-turn on the temporary two-way RTO-bound flank of the flyover
 
 A Maze Of Flyovers 
 
 The three flyover project covers 1.65 km 
 
 One flyover is between Sangamwadi and   square at Sancheti Hospital
 
 It is a non-stop route between Sangamwadi and J M Road
 
 There is a two-tier 980m flyover between Shoppers Stop on Old Pune-Mumbai Highway and Sangam Bridge
 
 A 390m flyover from CoEP junction to Shoppers Stop is the third part
 
 
