Gurgaon: Damascus. It was on the way to this ancient metropolis that Jesus Christ saw a light from the heavens flash around him. And it is this city, and other cities and towns and villages across Syria, that has witnessed suffering on an unimaginable scale.

 Suffering. Never has humanity been rid of it. And on  , the day when Christ was martyred on the cross, the ‘Way of the Cross’ describes, starkly and poignantly, the final journey of Jesus Christ. In Gurgaon, at the Church of Immaculate Conception in   village, a little away from the millennial bustle, the faithful gathered to pay tribute to Christ’s sacrifice, in an enactment that, over two hours, wound its way through the quiet lanes of this urban hamlet.
 
 It was an unseasonably hot morning but the sun, blazing down from a cerulean sky, did little to put off worshippers from reliving, and reflecting on, a story of suffering that, sadly, shows no sign of ending.
 
 Actors provided flesh and bones to the torments, physical and mental, of Christ’s last hours. Singers, accompanied often by the tender strums of the guitar, squeezed every emotion out of these moments. It was, at times, unnerving, this juxtaposition of gentleness and violence. But, then, isn’t the world full of such disquieting juxtapositions?
 
 “Crucify him! Crucify him!” the crowd bays. “Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no crime in him,” answers Pontius Pilate, a key figure in the trial and crucifixion. Pilate, later, asks the crowd, “Shall I crucify your king?” to which they reply, “We have no king but Caesar!”
 
 It was fear that drove men and women to crucify Christ. And it is fear that drives many to taunt and humiliate and persecute those unlike us. In the mocking of Jesus, there are echoes of the way anyone different – foreigners and migrants, queers, transgenders and the disabled, and yes, even women, and folks of colour – are mocked in our day. Because of a frightening phobia of the other.
 
 Suffering, it was said, can appear utterly irrational. “There are moments of suffering which seem to deny God’s love. Where is God in death camps? Where is he in mines and factories where children work like slaves?” At home, farmers. Abroad, Syrians. Everywhere, minorities. Each might be asking that question, asking whether the darkness in their lives really is so impenetrable that light cannot enter.
 
 On Friday, the flock was reminded of the misery of India’s farmers, burdened by troubles beyond their ken, and of the agonies of the Syrians, the dust of whose country has been streaked red by the blood of hundreds of thousands of innocent children. Death, displacement and despair. Surrounded as we are by an almost claustrophobic sense of suffering, it is pertinent to ask whether Jesus suffered in vain. On Good Friday, the folks of the Kanhai parish assured us, believer and non-believer, that he didn’t. Because, there’s always a time for the healing to begin.
 
 
