KOLHAPUR: State's first elephant transit camp for the rehabilitation of wild tuskers is set to come up at Ajara taluka in Kolhapur district over the next couple of months. 

 The forest department has proposed Rs 68 lakh for erecting the temporary elephant transit camp, which will house two wild tuskers currently wrecking damage in the region. The camp will not involve any kind of concrete work. 
 
 Experts from Karnataka forest department will help their Maharashtra counterparts in rehabilitating the two pachyderms. The two wild elephants will be domesticated at the site and used to tame wild tuskers in the future. 
 
 Deputy forest conservator   told TOI the temporary transit camp has been proposed at the   village of the Ajara range of the Kolhapur forest division. The area is near Ghatkarwadi dam, which will ensure availability of water almost throughout the area for the transit camp.
 
 Elaborating on the camp, he said that it is proposed on a reserve forest area and the presence of the jungle will help release the elephant into the wild at night. "This is a general practice observed in the elephant camps for the well-being of the animal. Moreover, a 300 hectare reserve forest patch in Amboli range of   may be added to the camp area for the purpose of setting the animal free at night," he said. 
 
  The proposal for the fund allocation has been sent to the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAFMPA) for its approval. Apart from the Rs 68 lakh, the transit camp will require Rs 17.91 lakh for maintenance cost every year.
 
 Shukla said that the two elephants, which are still in the wild in   and Ajara area, will be captured using the resources of the Karnataka government. The Karnataka team has expertise in tackling wild tuskers and rehabilitating them at the transit camp. A letter has been sent to them last week and the Karnataka forest department has given nod for the same," he said. 
 
 He added that considering the extent of crop damage, human injuries and public fear, catching the two adult male elephants remains the only viable option as a short term measure. 
 
 He added that if human-elephant conflict is left unmanaged it can have severe impact on forest and other wildlife conservation. The frontline forest staff has been put to a lot of hardship due to the conflict.
 
 He added that some nine people have been injured by the elephants in the past three years. While in the crop compensation, the forest department has paid over Rs 32 lakh in past two years.
 
 "Paddy is grown in the monsoon season and is the preferred food of elephants during that time till it is harvested between November to January. They also move onto sugarcane and banana, which is the dominant crop in the area," he said. 
 
 
