Greater Noida: The   that connects Greater Noida to   has become a danger zone as truck drivers often park their vehicles on the roadside without any indication, leading to fatal accidents. A stretch of nearly 13 kilometres of GT Road—connecting Lal Kuan in Ghaziabad to Bulandshahr crossing—is in Badalpur and Dadri area of Gautam Budh Nagar. The local residents want the district administration and police to improve patrolling on the stretch and ensure safety of commuters.

 On February 28, three persons died and two others were seriously wounded when a speeding ambulance caught fire after it rammed a truck from behind on the same spot.
 
 Raj Kumar, a resident of Badpura village, said the area have been developed into an industrial hub and a number of factories and companies have come up along the GT Road. However, he said there are no traffic police personnel for enforcement. “The   and heavy vehicles continue to ply day and night. The drivers park these heavy vehicles outside dhabas and other places without giving any indication to the vehicles coming from behind. They also drive rash and there is no one to check their movement. This frequently leads to accidents and loss of lives,” he said.
 
 Sumit Singh, another resident, said the roads are very narrow and it becomes extremely risky for bikers and car users when a heavy vehicle tries to overtake. “The users of smaller vehicles are forced to take an extreme left for safety. There are some poles for traffic lights but they hardly work. We demand the police to frequently patrol the area and ensure road users’ safety,” Singh said.
 
 According to traffic police, due to staff shortage, personnel are not deployed in Badalpur area.  , station officer, Badalpur police station, said they would increase patrolling on the stretch. “This   took place due to speeding of vehicles. In the earlier accident, the ambulance had also hit the truck from behind. The drivers would be asked to check speed limits. We are taking necessary actions to ensure safety of commuters,” he said.
 
 
