KOLKATA: Uttam Sardar was in for a surprise early on Tuesday. The resident of a slum along the   canal, who made headlines for finding insect larvae in the water collected from a   pipeline saw a team of civic officials at his door. It was barely past 7.30am and Sardar had hardly managed to fill a couple of water containers from the tap inside his house when the team of four KMC water supply department officials arrived for inspection.

 The KMC top brass decided to send the team of experts to Sardar’s house following a report in 
  on Tuesday, highlighting the plight of the Sardars who were being forced to drink water that had insects and larvae swimming it. The Sardars live in one of the pockets that have been reeling from the outbreak of enteric disease that has spread in parts of south Kolkata, especially along Eastern Metropolitan Bypass.
 
 
 
  
 
 In fact, MMiC health   on Tuesday did not rule out contamination in the piped water supplied to the areas along the Bypass, where the enteric disease had spread its tentacles.
 
 The four KMC officials divided themselves into two groups and started searching for the source of the impurity in the water found at the Sardars’ home. According to a member of the team, they found an underground reservoir and collected samples from there; there surely were larvae. The officials also showed Sardar and his family the insects and the source from where they collected the sample. Worried with what they saw, the officials decided on the spot to seal the inlet of the reservoir. They look to empty the reservoir.
 
 “It is an experiment, which will prove whether the insects were entering into the reservoir through our underground pipeline or they were breeding inside the tank itself. Once the water there is found to be fit for consumption, we will return to the spot and break the seal for the residents to use the water from the reservoir,” one of the KMC water supply department official said.
 
 After they left the Sardars’ house, they carried out an inspection of the spot on  , where sewage lines were being laid as part of a drainage modernization project. As part of the survey, they checked a couple of water stand posts located near the dug-up road. “We found nothing suspicious that could be a reason for a possible water contamination. But we, along with drainage department officials, may have to go back to the spot again to have a closer look underground,” an official said.
 
 Looking for the possible source of contamination, water supply department officials checked from   in Bagbazar to the Dhapa water treatment plant. “However, we did not find any possible source of contamination. Our search will, however, continue. We aim to root out scare from the minds of people residing in affected areas,” the official said.
 
 
