AGRA: Days after a nationwide Dalit agitation against an alleged dilution of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, the Dalit community in Agra will be inaugurating a CBSE-affiliated English-medium school for the community’s children to curb “institutional discrimination” against them.  , founder member of the school, said, “Dalits are not the part of Hindu community and it’s clearly visible. No one notices the discrimination we and our kids face.”
 
  Chaudhary Nandkishore, a resident of   area where the school is coming up, said, “The community members donated Rs 45 lakh which we have spent on constructing a two-storey building on a 20,000 square feet land. We will collect some more funds.”
 
 
  
  
  The purpose of the school, Singh said, is to provide education to poor Dalit children, as they “do not get admission in good educational institutes”.
  
  He said the soon-to-be-inaugurated school is particularly dedicated to 10,000 SC families in Jagdishpur though there is “no restriction on admitting children from other areas or communities”. The school will have a capacity to accommodate 1,000 students. 
  
  Singh said a nominal fee, which will be decided later, will be charged and the selection of teachers will be based on merit.
  
  Manoj Sen, a social worker, said, “This school is a welcome move as generally good students from the community don’t get chance in private institutions due to their limited financial resources.”
  Balmiki Sena’s Aligarh district president, Rahul Chetan, said, “Dalit children are routinely harassed in private schools and I have made complaints against such institutions. A school like this will boost the confidence of our children.”
  State general secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Khatik Samaj, Veeru Sonkar, said, “Harassment of Dalit children is a reality we cannot deny. The situation is worse in rural areas.”
  
  A recent study by National Dalit Movement for Justice across eight states to examine whether students belonging to schedule caste, schedule tribes and religious minorities are treated fairly revealed a shocking picture of discrimination and sexual abuse across states, including Odisha, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh.
  During field visits, researchers found that SC and ST students are forced to clean toilets and classrooms, but other students are not. These students are even made to clean toilets used by teachers. According to the study, due to discrimination done by teaching and non-teaching staff, even the so-called higher caste students do not make friends with SC or ST students, are seated at the front of the class, given an extra helping of mid-day meals and meted out less punishment as compared to Dalits.
