HYDERABAD: If the city's infrastructural problems was not enough, there are a range of mindless traffic offences by citizens that is reducing traffic to a crawl and causing a big headache for cops 

 High on the list of such offences are blocking free left, lorries and vans entering no entry zones, wrong parking and parking outside commercial complexes, says the traffic police. Not just that, vehicles being driven against traffic also bring down the traffic speed substantially. Despite penalties, these offences continue unabated.
 
 In 2017, 4,291 vehicles were booked by traffic cops for driving against traffic, 3,334 vans and lorries were booked for plying on no entry routes and nearly 35,000 were booked for wrong parking, parking on carriageway, obstructing traffic and parking at entry and exit areas of commercial complexes. Also 92 vehicles were booked for blocking free left junctions.
 
 
  
 
 While free lefts were meant to ease traffic flow at junctions, people waiting to cross the signal prefer to take over the free left and wait for the signal to turn green. 
 
 "At   circle, people heading towards   often block the free left. Not just two-wheelers, even four-wheelers tend to follow suit, especially during peak hours. Sometimes, it takes over 20 minutes to cross the circle ," says Vaishnavi S, a commuter.
 
 Driving against traffic is very common at some high density traffic routes like Banjara   Road no. 1, 3, Jubilee Hills main road and Ayyappa society road. 
 
 "Ayyappa society road was closed from one side for months. The other road has a school where many cars park during school hours, blocking half the road. On top of that, people coming in opposite direction leave no space for vehicles to pass by. Even with little traffic, the area gets choked at any hour of the day," said  , a techie. 
 
 With an ever-increasing inventory of vehicles in the city, these vehicles are often parked on the roads and bylanes, choking most of the approach roads. 
 
 "Haphazard parking and halting vehicles on the roads is a major cause for concern in   region. Several roads like the West   main road have become extremely narrow due to wrong parking. The state government must speed up work of setting up multi-level parking lots across the city," said  , a resident of Marredpally area.
 
 
