BENGALURU: In a sudden development,   ( ) commissioner N  , who’s also the district election officer for Bengaluru, was transferred on Thursday following a directive from the Election Commission (EC). IAS officer M   is the new Palike chief. 

 The state government issued a notification to this effect on Thursday attributing the move to an EC directive. Rao, who was the agriculture secretary, was directed to report to the transferred post immediately without seeking joining time and comply with the order. 
 
 “It is the EC’s prerogative to take a decision on shifting an official when he or she is found to have failed in discharging his/her duty. As far as the   of Manjunath Prasad is concerned, the reasons are cumulative,” said chief electoral officer Sanjiv Kumar, without elaborating.
 
 Prasad had taken over the BBMP mantle from Kumar Naik in April 2016. 
 
 Boxes: Hoarding issue, poll breach may have worked against him
 
 Various theories regarding the development are making the rounds. One of them is a complaint dated May 2 filed by the central BJP before EC, wherein the party has accused Prasad of denying permission to put up BJP hoardings in the city. The party quoted a case in which it had initiated a request to install BJP hoardings on April 13, 2018, but on one pretext or the other, Prasad kept denying permission. In fact, BJP had demanded that Prasad be transferred.
 
 However, sources in the government say EC had appointed a committee to look into the confusion on hoardings and BJP was seeking permission for illegal hoardings, adding that a related case is pending in the high court. “The commissioner, in one of the meetings, had a heated argument with a BJP leader and stood his ground by not according permission for hoardings. This may have worked against him,” said a source.
 
 Another reason cited by sources is a recent breach of the electoral process, wherein illegal entries were made in the voters’ list in Bengaluru, inflating the number by at least 7,000 across four constituencies. It is said that the commission saw the breach as a failure of the BBMP chief.
 
 Satisfied with 2-yr stint 
 
 Prasad said he is an obedient government servant and is ready for any post the state government allots for him. “I have the satisfaction of serving as BBMP chief for two years. I have no comments on the transfer,” he said.
 
 
