LUDHIANA: After TOI looked into the problem faced by residents and commuters regarding the garbage dump in Model Town, Municipal Corporation took action on the issue on Thursday. Model Town Extension road, which had become a dump for many residents as well as vegetable and fruit-sellers for the past few years, is now being cleaned up.

 When TOI team went to check if there was any action taken against the problem being faced by many residents for the past few years, it was found that a team of workers had been sent to clean up that road on Thursday. “We have been facing this problem for many years. No action was ever taken on the issue, despite so many complaints. Let’s hope they continue cleaning this place until it’s totally clean,” said  , who lives nearby.
 
 Commuters wish to see the beauty of this road the way it was a few years ago. “I have been passing through this road for the past 3-4 years. This road used to look so beautiful, but then people started throwing garbage and made it a dumping ground. Seeing these workers clean up the place feels so good. I wish to see this road as beautiful as it was earlier when there was no dump here,” said  , a resident of Basant Enclave.
 
 The residents complained that   officials had not done anything to get rid of the mess permanently.  , who lives nearby, said: “MC officials have never given us a permanent solution to this problem. It gets so difficult to bear this foul smell emanating from the heaps of garbage lying here. After placing so many complaints, MC officials made a dumping ground a few meters ahead, but no person goes there to throw garbage. People still throw everything here. Cleaning this place wouldn’t make any difference, because even after it’s cleaned up, people are still going to throw all their garbage here again. We should get a permanent solution to this problem, maybe by putting up a net there.”
 
 Some residents say they would request people not to throw any garbage after this place is cleaned up. “If MC officials are doing something good for us by cleaning up this area, it’s our duty to ensure the cleanliness later too. I just hope people understand this and don’t throw any garbage over here,” said  , a resident of Model Town Extension.
 
 
