LUDHIANA: Allegedly upset over being questioned by the   ( ) team in the targeted killing of   Punjab leader Durga Gupta, a 50-year-old cobbler from Khanna ended his life by jumping into   at Fatehgarh Sahib on Tuesday.

 The deceased was identified as Rampal of Billan Waali Chapdi in Khanna. He worked as a cobbler near Lalheri Chowk.
 
 On April 23, 2016, two motorcycle-borne miscreants had shot dead the labour wing president of Shiv Sena   at Lalheri Chowk when he was going to buy wheat flour in Khanna on a two-wheeler.
 
 Rampal’s son   claimed that the NIA and   wanted to make his father a witness in the killing of Durga Gupta and he was fed up with constant questioning by the investigating agency. He said on Tuesday morning, his father left home when they were sleeping. Later around 8.30am, they got a call from an unknown number and Rampal was on the other side of the phone. Rampal told them that he is going to end his life as he was upset with frequent questioning by NIA and Punjab Police.
 
 Family members said later when they called back on the same number, they found that his father had borrowed the mobile phone from someone to make a call before jumping into the canal.
 
 “There were man at the place when Durga Gupta was killed, but why was my father singled out and frequently troubled by NIA and police? There were many police personnel too at crime spot. What were they doing?” Manish Kumar, a hair dresser, said.
 
 Family members alleged that Rampal was being forced to become an eyewitness even as he told the police that he never saw the murder. They added that on Monday, Khanna police allegedly told him that a NIA team would visit Khanna on Tuesday and he had to accompany them to Delhi to record his statement.
 
 Kamlesh, wife of the deceased, said her husband left home early morning and later her daughter Yashoda received a call from Rampal after which she handed over the phone to her. She said her husband told her to take care of children as he was leaving.
 
 The family went to the civil hospital after the Rampal’s body was brought there after being fished out of the canal. Rampal is survived by his wife, three daughters and two sons.
 
 Police said the Rampal’s family, in their statement to police, had not blamed anyone for the extreme step. They added that an inquest proceeding had been initiated at Sirhind police station under Section 174 of CrPC.
 
 Meanwhile, SSP Khanna Navjot Singh Mahal said as the case was with the NIA, the local police had no role in the investigations.
 
 NIA sources said Rampal was not examined in the case. They added that several persons at Lalheri Chowk had revealed the name of the cobbler as an eyewitness, so the ground staff was in touch with him.
 
 NIA officials said there was no question of forcing a person to become a witness.
 
 
 
 On November 30 last year, the Punjab government handed over seven cases, including killing of religious leaders to the NIA and that included a case of Durga Gupta who was the first Hindu leader to be shot dead by unidentified miscreants. Police have already arrested two sharp shooters Ramandeep Singh of Ludhiana and Hardeep Shera of Amloh for the targeted killings among others who were allegedly involved in the cases.
 
 
