PANAJI: A   court has directed an accused person to pay compensation of Rs 50,000 to a police officer for abusing and slapping him at a police station in 2010. The court also fined the accused Rs 10,000. 

 “Abusing a public servant and assaulting him shows that the accused did not have any regard for law enforcing agencies,” said judicial magistrate first class (JMFC)  .
 
 “The place where the offence was committed is the police station,” the court said. “The offence that he committed is on a public servant, that, is, a police officer, while discharging his duty. Hence, (adopting a) liberal attitude by imposing a meagre sentence, or by taking too sympathetic a view by considering the submissions of the accused, would be against societal interest.”
 
 The court convicted Sarfaraj Mulla, 32, under Sections 332 (causing hurt to deter public servant from doing his duty) and 504 (insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code. The complaint was filed by police officer Laxi  .
 
 Mulla has to pay a fine of Rs 5,000 under Section 332 and Rs 5,000 under Section 504, IPC. He also has to pay compensation of Rs 25,000 each under both sections. 
 
 The payments must be made within a period of one month, said the court, adding that if he defaults, he will have to undergo imprisonment of one month.
 
 During the hearing, the prosecution pointed out that on October 10, 2010, Sarfaraj trespassed into the house of   and abused him. Sarfaraj also assaulted   and Sayyad Tanvir “with tooth bites”. Amonkar, the police officer, brought the trio to the police station.
 
 Sarfaraj abused Amonkar and snatched the station diary from him. Amonkar proceeded to apprehend him, and Sarfaraj slapped him on the face and pushed him on the ground, according to submissions made by assistant public prosecutor  . In his deposition, the doctor who medically examined Amonkar said that he found a single, reddish bruise on the face of the victim. Police constables also testified before the court. Meanwhile, the defence argued that Sarfaraj was assaulted by Amonkar and other constables in the police station.
 
 “There are no reasons given as to why the investigating officer would falsely implicate the accused in the case,” the court said. “The witnesses have clearly testified about the incident and the injuries. Similarly, the medical certificate also shows injuries on Amonkar’s face.” 
 
 After conviction, Sarfaraj pleaded leniency in the matter as he was the sole breadearner of the family, and his parents were aged. The court said that injustice cannot be done to his old parents, who require assistance and care. Thus, she said, imposing more severe punishment would not be in the interest of justice, and directed him to pay fine and compensation.
 
 
