NEW DELHI: Shooting legend   is mighty impressed with the way Indian shooters have performed at the   (Rifle/Pistol/Shotgun) 2018 in Mexico. The event, which began on March 1, has seen Indian shooters collect a historic haul of nine medals – four of them gold across 10 days, pushing India to the top in the medals tally. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Bindra, who continues to be India's only individual Olympic gold medallist, congratulated the shooters for their excellent run at the ongoing world cup in Mexico, terming it as the dawn of a new era in Indian shooting. "The Indian Shooting Teams performance at Mexico starts a new era in Indian shooting," he posted on his Twitter handle on Sunday. 
 
 Putting his faith on the current crop of shooters to bring India glory at the Olympics, Bindra added, "The future [of shooting] is in extremely safe hands & am confident that the young athletes have the ingredients to take them to the very top of the Olympic podium. Congratulations to all."
 
  
  
 
 At the 2008 Beijing Olympics, Bindra made history by winning a gold medal in the 10m air rifle event and ended India's excruciating wait for an individual gold medalist. An Arjuna Award, Khel Ratna and Padma Bhushan recipient, he has to his credit four CWG golds and another at the ISSF World Championships.
 
 
 
 
 
 On Saturday, Akhil Sheron added to India's growing tally with a gold medal in the men's 50m Rifle 3-Position. On the opening day of the world cup, India began with a bang, collecting three medals with debutant Shahzar Rizvi shooting gold (10m air pistol) and Jitu Rai (10m air pistol) and   (women's 10m air rifle) winning bronze each. Mehuli won another bronze when she teamed up with Deepak Kumar in 10m air rifle mixed team event.
 
  won a gold medal each in women's 10m air pistol individual and mixed team (with Om Prakash Mitharval) event. Anjum Moudgil (50m rifle 3-position) has won India's sole silver of the competition so far. Ravi Kumar also clinched bronze in 10 air rifle men event.
 
 Bindra also praised the junior coaches and support staff for laying a strong foundation for the development of future stars. He tagged former CWG and Asian Games gold medalist and the current chief junior national coach for pistol Jaspal Rana and Joydeep Karmakar whose shooting academy is nurturing rising star Mehuli Ghosh.
 
 
  
  
 
 Bindra, 35, retired from competitive shooting after last year’s Rio Olympics, where he reached his third final and came within 0.1 of winning a second medal at the pinnacle of world sport. Post-retirement, he was appointed to the PM’s Olympic Task Force on the preparations for the next three Olympic Games.
 
 Bindra was part of six-member TOISA jury that selected India’s best sportspersons of 2017 for   (TOISA).   and Heena Sidhu won the TOISA Shooter of the Year awards while 15-year-old pistol sensation Anish Bhanwala was chosen as the Emerging Player of the Year. 
 
 
