VELLORE: A woman  , Reena Joey Mary, 38, incarcerated in the   for Women in Vellore was allegedly denied proper   as per her health condition over the last three months. Consequently, her health condition has deteriorated.

 Though Mary, who has been suffering from Thyroid disorder, petitioned the prison authorities requesting to provide the diet that would help her medical condition, the pleas have failed to fetch a desired result.
 
 “She is suffering from Thyroid disorder. She petitioned the senior officials twice in the last three months asking for proper food that will help her to remain healthy. The second petition was submitted recently, but her demand is not addressed yet,” said a prison source.
 
 Mary was arrested from her hideout in a stone quarry in Kancheepuram district in mid-2016. She was charged for reportedly inculcating Maoist ideology and introducing youngsters from rural areas and tribal villages to the Maoist ideology. She was lodged in the special prison here.
 
 On accessing her health problem, then Superintendent of the prison   had provided the necessary food as per her health condition. Later, she was transferred to Trichy six months ago and was not given appropriate diet. 
 
 A homeopathy practitioner has also been regularly checking her. “She was shifted to the central prison in Coimbatore to meet her husband Kannan, who is also a Naxalite, undergoing imprisonment there. After three months imprisonment there, she was brought back here three to four months ago. Since she returned here, she was facing health problems,” said the source. 
 
 She petitioned a few months ago, requesting to provide eggs, milk and greens to remain healthy. She petitioned again as her health condition was deteriorating.
 
 Admitting that she has requested for food under “special category” on health grounds, a prison official said, “We have asked her to approach the court to seek a direction in favour of her demand. Now, we are supplying her food as per the existing provision.”
 
 They added that she made oral requests on a few occasions, and there was no submitted any petition.
 
 Deputy Inspector of Police, Vellore Range, J Jayabharathy said that she will look into it.
 
 
