PANAJI: After a turbulent tryst with the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test ( ) last year, students answering the exam this year in Goa saw a smoother conduct of the test. 

 In some stray cases, students were asked to take off the ornaments they were wearing or their high-heeled shoes to meet the dress code set for the NEET exam. The exam is conducted across the country by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE).
 
 “Unlike what we had heard about students’ experiences last year around the country, students wearing jewellery or high-heeled shoes were politely told to take them off by those carrying out the checks outside the examination halls. They were then allowed to answer the exam as usual,” said a student who answered the exam from the Bambolim centre.
 
 This year, 3,683 students had registered from Goa to answer the NEET, the entrance test for admission to medicine, dentistry, homeopathy and ayurveda degree programme seats on offer across the country. 
 
 The exam was conducted at eight centres, which included most of the   located at Vasco, Bambolim, Verem and Ponda, besides Vidya Vikas Academy in   and Sunshine School at Old Goa.
 
 Most students said that they found the physics paper lengthy and tough, while chemistry was easy and biology very easy, they said. 
 
 Due to negative marking, students said they avoided answering questions in the physics paper that they found tough.
 
 Many Goa students were allotted centres in the neighbouring states of Maharashtra and Karnataka. Ravindra Kudchadkar, a resident of Chandor, who answered the exam from a centre in   in neighbouring Karnataka, said, “I left early morning on the day of the exam itself. I managed to reach before the reporting time of 9am.”
 
 Across examination centres, parents were seen waiting outside the examination hall throughout the three-hour duration of the test, a scene unlike the one witnessed outside exam centres during state board exams.
 
 The preparations for the exams, in Goa, started well in advance with mobile phone signal jammers being installed in examination centres on Friday itself for the test which was held on Sunday.
 
 
