JAIPUR: Despite limited sources, these girls are fighting against all odds and dreaming of a bright future. 

  Twenty-year-old Praveena from   village of Sirohi district is running a shop for the past four years after her father's death in the village which does not allow girls to move out of houses for earning money. 
 
 "I did not pay any attention to such criticism. I continued my work along with studies. When I started running the shop, I was just 16. While running the shop, I continued my studies and passed high school and completed my XII. Now, I will go for higher studies for getting a decent job," said Praveena, who had to stop her studies after her father's deaths six years ago. 
 
 There are many such girls who fought conservative approach of the society for achieving their goals. In a remote village of Vasan in   tehsil, 15-year-old Saniya   is aspiring to become a pilot. His father is an auto-rickshaw driver. When she demanded from her parents to go to a private school just like her brother, her parents had to get her admitted to a private school. "I want to become a pilot. I just need support from my family," said Saniya, who is studying in class X. Savita (21) from Sonani village of gram panchayat Sonela, is putting up a brave fight to stand on her own feet after being married twice before attaining the legal age of 18 years. "I fought against all odds and now I am staying with my mother and younger brother. I am preparing for getting a job in police just to show to the people that girls can also join police," she said. Savita had appeared for the Delhi police constable exam and her result is awaited. 
 
 Now, All Rajasthan In-Service Doctors' Association (ARISDA) has also announced that it would help girls in education and other financial needs by buying them stuff like dress, pen, copies etc. ARISDA president Dr Ajay Chaudhary said, "We will hold a meeting with the education department so that we could get the details of daughters who are unable to go to schools because they do not have any financial support." 
 
 Doctors under ARISDA will reach hospitals with their daughters to celebrate National Girl Child Day on Wednesday.
 
 
