UTHAGAMANDALAM: The Government Botanical Garden (GBG) in Ooty witnessed an event with fun and frolic,  ,  . At least 2,000 women, including the Nilgiris district collector, self-help groups and tourists gathered at the sprawling lawn in the GBG. Yes, the gathering was to celebrate ‘women’s day’ in an informal way of expressing themselves. The event was organized by the district administration in association with Social Welfare Department, Women Development Department and Light and  .

 It was fun for all the women gathered there including J Innocent Divya, Nilgiris Collector and other women officials and women staff from the collector’s office and revenue department besides the public.
 
 T. Devakumari, District Social Welfare Officer told TOI, “It is a day out for all of the women gathered here. And it is a motivational event for them”. 
 
 The programmes included games such as lime on spoon race, tug of war, musical chair and three legged race, besides flash mob. Women from all walks of life, including the collector, officials and women police took part in all the events held in the open air without any inhibition. 
 
 It was not a formal function with a chief guest. “Here, today, everyone felt as a chief guest and the event facilitated them to come out as what they are”, said Aruradha Iqbal, Correspondent of Light and Life academy, which had organized many of the events. Also, students and staff from the academy took part in almost all the events and documented too. 
 
 A visual CD on women empowerment and womanhood created by the students of Light and Life Academy was released by the Collector. “Fun elements like ‘faking news’ in the visual CD, portrayed by the common women, is the highlight of the visual and that portrays the confidence level of a common woman”, said  , founder of Light and Life Academy.
 
 A wish tree for the women in the garden attracted most of the women. And interestingly one such wish tag read: ‘I wish for a less judgmental society’.
 
  said, “This year’s theme being ‘Press for Progress’, interpretation of the art as women in progress, equality, safety, education to girl child and all those are standard things and they are happening. Of course, a lot more to be done in those areas. But we thought let us do something which the Nilgiris completely forgotten. That is woman is a woman. She has got some simple basic things like let her hair down and have fun. Women can have as much fun as any man, if not always”. 
 
 She further said, “So this event enables them to rediscover the fun part of them and really have fun. In fact, the ideas for the games were contributed by women, like ‘bun on a string’ and ‘three legged races’. ‘Let us celebrate women. Make them feel very important’. That’s how the entire programme has been organized”. 
 
 
