HYDERABAD: Following in the footsteps of corporate colleges, state-run junior colleges too have now started conducting remedial classes and assessment tests for their students, appearing for their board examination in March.

 This, despite the   ( ) norms clearly ruling against this practice.
 “Instead of the regular 9am to 4pm timings, we are now conducting classes from 8am to 5pm so that students get enough time for revision. Students are given minimum study material and the extra time is used for revision,” said Ch Prabhakar, district inspection officer, Medchal, adding that they have changed the times based on the instructions of higher officials.
  
  
 While admitting to this being an exception, BIE officials said that this has been done to primarily improve the pass percentage of government colleges. In fact, board officials have also decided to select 100 students enrolled in government colleges, from each district, and provide them special coaching for   and NEET, during the summer vacation, so that they can compete with students from corporate colleges. The special classes will conducted by relevant experts. The move has, however, not gone down well with private college managements who insisted on all colleges being bound by a uniform set of rules.
 
 “BIE should not discriminate among colleges. If we conduct extra classes, they levy fine on us. But now they themselves are conducting remedial classes. It’s same with the admission process too. While private colleges can’t start admissions before the board issues notifications, the residential schools run by the government have already started the process and are even conducting an entrance, which is also against the BIE norms,” said Satish G, honorary president,   private junior colleges association.
 
 Further alleging how some corporate colleges are conducting classes up to 9pm, members of the association said that the government should not keep quiet for the entire year and only react when some untoward incident occurs in any one of the junior colleges.
 
 
 
