BHOPAL: In a chilling rerun of the February 17 molest horror, three masked bikers chased two sisters on a scooter for over 2km, from   till  , on Sunday evening and slashed one of them with a knife when she resisted.

 Though there is CCTV footage of the chase and attack, police are yet to identify the goons. It’s uncannily similar to the February 17 incident, when two sisters on their way home on a scooter were chased and molested by bikers on   bridge at midnight. This time, it’s even scarier because it happened in the evening, on a busy road.   SHO Preetam Singh Thakur said the woman injured in Sunday’s attack is a 26-year-old government employee posted in another city. Her father is a retired police officer. She told police that she came to   on Saturday. On Sunday, she and her elder sister were going shopping to New Market on her Activa. At Moti Masjid Square, three men on bikes started chasing them. The girls tried to speed up to dodge them but the goons stuck like leeches. They were making catcalls, shouting lewd remarks in the middle of traffic and asking the girls to stop.
 
 Cops retrieve CCTV footage, launch hunt for three bikers
 
 At Banganga Square, the trio blocked the girls’ path and passed lewd comments. When the sisters protested, one of the men riding pillion pulled out a knife and lunged at the 26-year-old. She ducked to avoid the blow and raised her arms in reflex, getting cut in her right hand. The goons sped away.
 
 The sisters then went to TT Nagar police station and filed a complaint. Police registered a zero FIR and transferred the case to Jehangirabad police station as the spot is in their jurisdiction. SHO Thakur said police scanned surveillance footage but the faces of the goons and the bike registration number were not clear.
 
 Three molestations in 24 hours shock city: In Govindpura, a middle-aged man barged into the house of a 19-year-old student and tried to rape her on Sunday night. When she resisted, he beat her and tried to flee but was caught by neighbours. Police arrested the suspect, Avinash Pandit, and paraded him in the locality on Monday.
 
 In Habibganj, a 35-yearold woman was molested near No. 5 bus stop on Sunday night. The suspect, Popat Kamle, has been arrested.
 
 On Monday afternoon, a mini-bus conductor allegedly passed lewd comments and made obscene gestures at a scooter-borne woman while she was going from Karond to Gautam Nagar. She stopped the bus near Nishatpura and beat up the conductor. Then, she went to   police station and narrated the incident to police but did not lodge a complaint. No case was registered.
 
