KOLKATA: Pulling down Vladimir Lenin’s statues in Tripura on Tuesday and defacing Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s bust the very next day in Kolkata can’t be merely tagged a “tit-for-tat” politics. These acts of desecration point to a fundamentalism—similar to the religious one—among political groups that has been on display in   at jarring political moments, right since the heydays of Naxal movement in the sixties.

 Sociologist   sees a common thread in the attacks on mortals and statues alike. “I take them as an attack on pluralism of thoughts and views that this country grew with. The perpetrators of such acts do not seem to have confidence in their own ideology. They could have allowed the statues to stay and combat the ideology they professed with reason,” said the emeritus professor at Presidency University.
 
 
 
  
 
 Pluralism came under attack during the sixties when the Naxals tried to establish their views, negating the reading of history so far. Naxal leader Ashim Chatterjee, popularly called Kaka, seems to now regret the fact that they vandalized a statue of Iswar Chandra Vidyasagar at College Square. “That was wrong. We evaluated the role of our national heroes based on only one parameter — his or her role in the agrarian movement. While doing so, we ignored Vidyasagar’s progressive and pathbreaking contribution to other spheres,”   said. The Naxal leader in introspection said they did it to trigger a social churning with an aim to bring the unsung heroes to the fore, but the purpose got lost in the widespread condemnation of the vandalism.
 
 Santosh Rana, another Naxal leader who subsequently got elected to the  , finds a method in the madness that has spread Tripura to Bengal to Tamil Nadu. “It isn’t just Lenin. Ambedkar and Periyar are also under attack. It shows how the Sangh Parivar has been targeting other views in an attempt to rewrite the Constitution. Does the BJP’s effort to win over the Dalits go well with vandalizing Ambedkar’s statue?” he said.
 
 Bengal had witnessed a similar outpouring of anger—like that in Tripura-—soon after Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011, putting an end to the 34-year Left Front rule. Statues of Lenin were pulled down at   on May 24, 2011, and at   on March 4, 2015. On both the occasions, the vandals allegedly belonged to the Trinamool. “Mamata Banerjee is now raising her voice against the attack on Lenin’s statue in Tripura. Everybody knows how they vandalized the Assembly during the Left regime,” said CPM leader Sujan Chakrabarty. Banerjee has openly condemned the pulling down of Lenin’s statues in Tripura, making it clear her party doesn’t endorse the act. Trinamool seniors have also condemned the attack on Syama Prasad’s statue in Kolkata.
 
 Desecrating statues of generals and leaders have been a global phenomenon Lenin’s statues were pulled down in Moscow and in other parts of East Europe. Poland’s right-wing government gave local officials a year’s time to remove statues paying tribute to heroes of the Soviet era, like it had done to   leaders after Soviet intervention. The pulling down of Saddam Hussain’s statue in Iraq got wide coverage on TV. Tripura governor   finds no harm in replacing Lenin’s statue. “A democratically elected government can undo the act of another democratically elected government,” Roy twitted. Presidency professor Ray didn’t question the governor but pointed out that people abroad couldn’t uproot the ideology by simply removing their statues. “It is not a furniture that you can change at will,” Ray said.
 
