KOLKATA: When the eighth   was inaugurated in Kolkata on Tuesday, one question that came to the forefront was the crisis plaguing the   in Bengal. According to rules, they can perform once in two months in any government hall in the city. Yet,   hasn’t got a chance to perform at Rabindra Sadan for a whole year and   performed ‘Tughlak’ there in July 2016.

 Nandikar’s Sohini Sengupta said theatre is being systematically sidelined in Bengal. Things weren’t this way two years ago. Now, a group gets only six shows at government halls a year. In June 2016, Nandikar had performed its ‘Panchajanya’ at Rabindra Sadan. “After that, we haven’t got a single date there,” Sengupta said. She insisted hall distribution rules need immediate rectification. “If the system doesn’t choose the best in terms of audience response and promotes it, it will be detrimental to the cultural community,” she said.
 
 Prakash Bhattacharya’s Nandipat last performed at Rabindra Sadan in March 2015. “Reputable theatre groups are no longer getting to perform at government halls. This has impacted the theatre audience’s size. Many complain that instead of quality theatres, these halls host music and dance shows that aren’t good enough.”
 
 Arpita Ghosh’s Pancham Vaidik only applies for Minerva. “Theatre fraternity is reeling under problems of hall distribution at the bureaucratic level. If reputable groups don’t get a chance to get shows over the weekends at government halls, it’ll drive away loyal audience from there,” Ghosh said.
 
 The last time Debesh Chattopadhyay’s group got a show at a government hall was five months ago at Madhusudan Mancha. He alleged the problem is more to do with government officials who don’t keep track of what’s happening in the theatre world. “Earlier theatre was prioritised in government halls. Now government officials at the helm are unaware of the credentials of groups being turned down. They give a date to groups that haven’t done quality performances,” he said, adding that Manoj Mitra, who is in the hall allotment committee, isn’t doing his job well.
 
 Manoj Mitra, who is in the allotment committee, too claimed he hasn’t ever got an opportunity to have his group Sundaram perform at Rabindra Sadan. “I am the sole man from the theatre fraternity in the date allotment committee. The date allotment is done by government officials. They often don’t keep track of theatre groups and the work they do,” Mitra said.
 
 However, he defended the government’s decision to allot halls to newcomers too. “The number of new theatre groups is increasing. Besides, there is a policy of allotting dates to outstation groups as well. Unless the number of government halls are increased, this problem can’t be resolved,” he said.
 
 
 
