GURUGRAM: The tender for the six-lane road connecting   with  , also known as NH-8, is likely to be floated in August this year, said Haryana PWD minister Rao Narbir Singh in Gurugram on Sunday.

 Talking about the project, the minister said, “The tender for the six-lane project, including a flyover at Umang Bhardwaj Chowk, will be issued in August,” said Narbir. 
 
 TOI had earlier reported that   will develop a six-lane connector from   Expressway that will meet NH-8 at Hero Honda Chowk. It will be an expansion of the existing 5.8km-long two-lane road between Hero   and Dwarka Expressway.
 
  
 The road, which is mainly used by Old Gurugram residents as an alternative route to reach NH-8, witnesses massive snarls due to huge volume of private and commercial vehicles. The road was earlier supposed to go up to Umang Bhardwaj Chowk, but was later extended to Dwarka Expressway. Along with a flyover at Umang Bhardwaj Chowk, the same project will now include another flyover at Basai Chowk. 
 
 The total cost of the project was earlier projected at around Rs 147 crore, but the minister didn’t give out any information on the cost escalation on Sunday. 
 
 The six-lane project was first proposed during chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to Gurugram in April last year, when he had inspected various ongoing projects in the city. Khattar later announced a revamp and widening of the road in August, after it was approved by GMDA in its first meeting.
 
 Following Khattar’s announcement, the state government sought funds from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), though the latter eventually did not sanction the funds, said Narbir. “Since NHAI declined to take up the project, the state government decided to develop the six-lane road on its own, through GMDA,” said Narbir on Sunday. 
 
 Narbir was speaking at the inauguration of road carpeting work of the road connecting Sector 10 to Pataudi, which was carried out at a cost of Rs 80 lakh. Narbir also spoke of the upcoming bus stand and railway stations, both of which are being developed to meet “international standards”. 
 
 “Development works worth Rs 10 crore will be carried out in the city in 2018-2019,” said Narbir. 
 
 Making a pitch for the upcoming state elections, he said development at this scale is only possible because the chief minister has got his priorities right and has Gurugram’s best interests in mind. “One could be of any political lineage, but everyone will agree Gurugram has seen a lot of development over the last four years,” said Narbir.
 
 
