PUNE: A 38-year-old businessman from Shivane, Nilesh Chaudhary, and his wife allegedly committed suicide after poisoning their two daughters. The incident took place on Friday at their flat on the second floor of Manas Apartment in Pokalenagar.

 The Uttamnagar police believe that Nilesh and his wife   (33) had made a suicide pact in which they decided to   their daughters,   (9) and   (7), and then end their lives. The police suspect that Nilam consumed poison after she and her husband poisoned the two girls. And that Nilesh hanged himself thereafter.
 
 Late on Saturday night, police registered a case of murder against the couple after receiving the preliminary post-mortem report.
 
 A suicide note found on Chaudhary stated that he was in a deep financial crisis and was facing major business losses. The suicide note also stated that their organs should be donated after their deaths.
 
 The incident came to light around 9pm on Friday when a neighbour found the door of the flat ajar and the lights off. When he peeped inside, he saw Chaudhary hanging from the ceiling and alerted the police, said sub-inspector Swapnali Nikam. Nikam said the suicide note states that Chaudhary didn’t want his children and wife to face the consequences of his losses in business, because of which he took the extreme step of ending their lives.
 
 Senior inspector   and other officers reached the spot after receiving information about the suicide.
 
 A police team which visited the apartment on Saturday morning told TOI that the deceased girls were frothing at the mouth. “Their mother was lying beside them on the bed in the living room. Before hanging himself, Chaudhary had removed the ceiling fan from its hook and then used a rope to hang himself,” police said.
 
 Nikam said, “The type of poison used is yet to be identified.”
 
 Chaudhary ran a plastic moulding business at Nanded Phata, off Sinhagad Road. Nilam was a homemaker. The two girls were studying in a school at Karvenagar. Both had stood first in their respective classes in the last exams. Shravani was in Std V, while Shreya was in Std I. Their teachers told TOI that both the girls were bright and hard-working.
 
 Chaudhary had bought the apartment three years ago and had secured a home loan for it. Recently, he had bought machines for his plastic moulding unit and had borrowed money for the same. The family originally hails from Kondhwe-Dhavade village and was known to several villagers as a hard working family, Nikam said.
 
