KOLKATA: At least three house owners in the city offered to rent out portions of their houses and several others offered donation to 10   — in pursuit of their entrepreneurial dream — on Monday, a day after TOI reported how scores of property owners refused to offer a space on rent to them to run a café once they learnt about their physical condition.

 “I have been receiving calls and emails since morning from several Good Samaritans in the city who are willing to offer space. After months of rejection, this feels like a whiff of fresh air and finally, it feels like the youths can dream big. We have lined up appointments to see the spaces over this week and hopefully, we can finalise a place by the end of this month,” said  , the founder of Anandaghar, a shelter for the   at Narendrapur.
 
 TOI had reported on Monday that the group of 6 young boys and 4 girls have undergone training in baking, sandwich-making and coffee and mocktail-making and aspired to start their own coffee shop named ‘Café Positive’. However, months of making rounds of several properties in some of the prominent locations in south Kolkata — like Lake Road, Dover Lane, Hindusthan Park, Gol Park and Ballygunge — yielded no result. The moment the house owners came to know about the medical condition of the youths, they started distancing them from the project and refused to offer the space on rent citing “problems to be caused by the neighbourhood and family”.
 
 “Everywhere, we were turned down and at one point of time, we felt like our dream can never come true. But then, things started to change from Monday morning. Our teachers at the Home have said several people are calling us up to offer space on rent. This news itself is special for us,” said   (name changed), a Class XII student who specialises in sandwich-making and baking cookies.
 
 As per the plan, the youths want to set up a café on a 750 square feet ground floor space. The food and beverages will be served on disposable plates and there would be no sharp cutleries or glass items that can cause bleeding or cut injuries. “There will be a corner in the café where people can even make their own coffee. We will also have a space where people can make their own food items and sell it from our outlet by paying us a portion of the sales. There will also be regular gigs and space for budding musicians in the city. And of course, there will be posters and tent cards, making people aware of the disease and the myths surrounding it,” said Sanmit Das (name changed), another Class XII student.
 
 Among the many who have offered space to them is a woman from Salt Lake and two from south and north Kolkata. “The lady from Salt Lake has asked us to go immediately and see her space. Another house owner has even promised us to offer the space at a discount. But we have said that we do not want any concession,” said Ghosh.
 
 Another city-based doctor, Anindya Kar, has mentioned the youths as “young warriors” in a mail to the NGO and has offered them necessary donations to fund the project.
 
 
