RAJKOT: The huge Muslim community living in   is seeing red after the municipal corporation sealed the only abattoir in the city following orders of Gujarat Pollution Control Board ( ).

 Interestingly, this abattoir was already sealed by the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) way back in 2010 as   was found flouting pollution norms. However, after receiving representations from the locals during the Ramzan month, the collector had intervened and gave permission for temporary operations. The abattoir was never sealed then.
 
 There are nearly 60,000 Muslims living in Junagadh city and those living in near-by villages purchase raw material from this abattoir. Besides Muslims, other non-vegetarian food consumers and hoteliers are also dependent on this abattoir for their daily supply. 
 
 The closure order that comes in the holy month of Ramzan has angered the butchers who blocked the city roads on Thursday for few hours to protest the decision..
 
 Earlier in 2010, several locals had lodged complaints about the filth near the slaughterhouse and said that the waste was not disposed as per prescribed norms. There is a Hindu temple nearby and people had complained that the slaughter house waste was disposed in   river passing near temple. JMC didn’t pay heed to this complaints forcing some citizens to lodge the complaint with the chief minister’s online grievance program. GPCB acted on this complain and directed JMC to seal the abattoir in 2010. 
 
 The butchers have to pay the maintenance charge to JMC but as it was operating without approval, nobody was paying any money. 
 
 Sohail Siddiqui, a local Muslim community leader in Junagadh said, “I was one of the complainants in 2010 because we wanted this place to be clean and JMC to follow the prescribed norms. Most butchers are uneducated but it’s JMC’s duty to maintain cleanliness and collect charges from them. There are nearly 200 people who earn their daily bread from this slaughterhouse. JMC and GPCB need to sort the issue so that people can get food of their choice in the holy Ramzan month,”
 
 GPCB also wants JMC to install an effluent treatment plant (EPT) to treat the waste before releasing it in drainage.
 
 M K Nandani, deputy municipal commissioner, said, “We have requested the GPCB to revoke the closure order and assured them to following all the conditions and norms. GPCB wants us to install ETP which will take three to four month. We have make the provision to allocate the funds for this facility.”
 
 
