PANAJI: Consumers in the state are set to feel the pinch with the   ( ) hiking the power tariff from April 1. The commission in its latest tariff order has approved an average increase of 6.4%, which is higher than the 5% hike proposed by the Goa   department. 

 While the overall new rates are significantly higher for domestic categories as compared to the commercial and industrial ones, the hike effected for the domestic category is also higher than that proposed by the Goa electricity department. 
 
 Domestic consumers in some categories will now have to pay anywhere between Rs 5 and Rs 25 more on fixed monthly charges, and up to 40 paise extra for every unit of energy consumed.
 
 The electricity department in its petition to JERC estimated a revenue gap of Rs 473 crore for 2018-19 of which it proposed to meet the gap of Rs 394 crore through budgetary support from the Goa government and Rs 79 crore through a tariff hike.
 
 The JERC, an autonomous authority responsible for regulation of the power sector in small states and Union territories, in its order highlighted the department’s “over reliance” on government budgetary support.
 
 It observed that the government has been providing budgetary assistance to the department for years. “In case the government had not provided the budgetary support, then an average increase of 19.43% over and above the approved tariff increase would have been required, which would have led to a tariff shock to consumers,” it stated in its order, adding that the department “should prepare itself for the repercussions in case the government withdraws the support in the future”. 
 
 Power minister   said that the new power tariff would come into force from April 1. “In some cases JERC has suo-moto increased the tariff. This was necessary to sustain the department. The rates are still among the lowest in the country,” he said, adding, “The department cannot keep depending on budgetary support. Instead of everyone in the state bearing the burden through budgetary support, which is paid from taxpayers money, the burden will now be based on actual power consumption,” he told TOI.
 
 
