Nagpur: The Maharashtra government on Wednesday informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court that it was facing constraints of manpower and logistics while probing the multi-crore irrigation scam. Therefore, it had decided to initiate open enquiries into irregularities of Gosikhurd project in first phase and then in the Jigaon and Nimna Painganga. The ACB director general issued orders for open enquiries into the Gosikhurd on March 26, 2015, and Jigaon and Nimna Painganga projects on May 18, 2015. It was informed by chief secretary Sumit Mullick through an affidavit after which the hearing was adjourned by two weeks. 
 
 The affidavit was filed as per HC’s directives in a PIL by Atul Jagtap through counsel Shridhar Purohit alleging that in four irrigation projects, the contracts were awarded to Bajoriya Construction Company headed by ex-MLC from Yavatmal, at the behest of former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who headed the Irrigation Department, during Congress-NCP regime. 
  
 Along with Mullick, principal secretary Iqbal Chahal also filed another affidavit regarding the progress made into investigations of the scam. But Purohit pointed out that both affidavits were not in consonance with court’s directives where it had asked to specifically spell out Pawar’s role in the scam. 
  
 Senior counsel Anand Jaiswal, who was specially appointed to plead for the government in scam related cases, sought time for filing a detailed affidavit explaining all aspects as demanded by the HC. 
  
 Mullick earlier informed that ACB was not made respondent in all four PILs by Jagtap, but Jigaon project was mentioned in earlier Janmanch’s case and hence, open enquiry was already started on May 5, 2015. Thereafter, offences were registered on November 3 last year under Sections 420, 466, 468, 471, 474, 192, 193, 197, 198, 120(B), and 109 of IPC and 13(1)(C)(D), 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, at Khamgaon Police Station in Buldhana. 
  
 The chief secretary added that evidence was found against nine accused in awarding tender of Jigaon project. ACB had recorded Pawar’s statement and his role is also being investigated into awarding tender and approval of work order, by examining various related documents and also in view of government’s Rules of Business. 
  
 On other projects in PIL like Raigad Barrage near Chandur Railway and Waghadi in Yavatmal, Mullick informed that after petitioner filed a complaint on December 12, 2017, Economic Offences Wing, Amravati Rural, is enquiring into the matters. 
  
 “The government is willing to support the ACB and SP Amravati Rural for conducting the investigations/enquiries into these PILs. I assure that no stone will be left unturned in conducting these enquiries/investigations in transparent, just and fair manner and accordingly, the directives have been issued to complete probe diligently and expeditiously,” he said. 
  
 (With inputs from Tanuja Ratnaparkhi) 
  
 ACB submits progress report in   in sealed envelope 
  
 Nagpur: The State ACB has submitted its report on progress in multi-crore irrigation scam related to various components related to the Gosikhurd project in a sealed envelope. It was handed over by additional government pleader Anand Fulzele after which the HC directed registry to put it in a safe custody till next hearing, scheduled after two weeks. The report was submitted in response to PIL by NGO Janmanch alleging massive scam of over Rs70,000 crore in various irrigation projects across the state. 
  
 Through its counsel Firdos Mirza, the NGO through president Anil Kilor pointed out that ACB’s enquiry was progressing at snail’s pace in the scam, involving precious taxpayers money to the tune of crores. 
  
 Citing former advocate General Sunil Manohar’s statement in the court on December 12, 2014, he reminded that chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had assured to conduct an open enquiry of former deputy minister Ajit Pawar and his close aid, former water resources minister Sunil Tatkare, in connection with the scam. Manohar had also assured to conduct an enquiry of ex-PWD minister Chhagan Bhujbal in connection with his alleged involvement in scam related to Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi. 
  
  
