JAIPUR : Seventeen labourers from   on Saturday given a complaint to Bidasar police station alleging that they were administered drugs meant for clinical trial at a private   in Jaipur. No FIR has been filed so far. However, the hospital authorities have denied the allegations. 

 Health minister Kalicharan Saraf on Saturday ordered a probe into it. “I have directed additional chief secretary Veenu Gupta to investigate into it. It is a serious matter. Those found guilty, will be punished,” Saraf told TOI.
 
 Following Saraf’s order, the health department has began probe into the matter. Health department director (health) Dr V K Mathur said that four-member committee under additional director Dr Ravi Prakash has been constituted. He said that the team investigated the matter for five hours in the hospital. During the probe, the team found that the hospital had received 38 packets of drugs for  , but they have found only 35packets on the spot. The hospital administration failed to give satisfactory reply on three missing packets of drugs. The team did not find orthopaedic surgeon Dr Rajeev Gupta at the hospital, he said.
 
 However, reacting on the complaint, the police sent 17 labourers to a government-run health centre in Bidasar. “We have sent all the 17 persons for medical test in a government hospital. They were complaining of uneasiness and headache,” said Prahlad Rai, station house officer, Bidasar. 
 
 But, the facilities for test was not available at the centre, so they returned back to village without any medical test done. 
 
 The labourers, hailing from Digaria village, alleged that they had swallowed a tablet given to them at a private hospital in Jaipur. They alleged that they were given drug for clinical trial without their knowledge.
 
 Thirty-year-old Kalu Ram looked worried who claimed that he had been given a drug during his stay on April 19 and April 20 in the hospital in Jaipur. “They (doctors) gave me a medicine to swallow after which I had my food on April 19. They told me that it will help in digestion,” said Ram, who claimed that his co-villager Umaram is unwell after having the drug.
 
 There were 21 labourers from the village who were brought to Jaipur. But, four of them denied having the drug. They went back to their village and informed other villagers. 
 
 “When I came to know about it, I rushed to Jaipur and helped these villagers get out of the hospital. There is a person of the same village, whose relative in Palsana acted as an agent of the hospital for arranging persons as volunteer for clinical trials. But, truth was not told to these 21 persons. They were told that they will get better payments for a work they have to do in the hospital. When they reached the hospital, they were admitted and doctors told them to take a certain drug. Four of them denied, while 17 of them took it,” said Vimal Toshniwal, a social activist from Sujangarh of Churu district. 
 
 Saturday witnessed a gathering of villagers for an unusual reason. They were discussing what action they can take such as filing an FIR against the hospital. They claimed that they were unaware that they were brought to Jaipur as a subject for clinical drug trial. After a lot of discussion, they reached Bidasar police station. 
 
 However, the private hospital admitted that they had admitted the villagers for clinical drug trials. But, they denied that they had violated law related to drug trials. 
 
 “We are authorised centre of clinical drug trials by Centre. The present trial in pipeline is for osteoarthritis of joints and is being conducted by orthopaedic surgeon Dr Rajiv Gupta, chief investigator,” said Dr NK Malpani, proprietor, Malpani Multispecialty Hospital.
 
 “Some volunteer patients were invited to join this clinical drug trial. This lot of persons who reported for the purpose was found unsuitable for the trial on the basis of their age and all the persons who reported were rejected,” said Malpani. 
 
 “Some persons among the lot got angry on rejection and to pressure the centre to include them in the trial fabricated the totally false allegation,” he said.
 
 “No patient of this lot was given any medicine therefore no question arises of them being ill,” he said. 
 
 Those persons reported in the evening of April 19 were accommodated in hospital for night stay to undergo screening. In the morning of April 20, when they were rejected after clinical examination mainly on the basis of age by Dr Rajeev Gupta, this scene of false allegation was created. There is no mistake has been done on hospital’s part. 
 
 
