NOIDA: Three criminals, who had sought extortion money of Rs2 crore from a Delhi-based businessman, were arrested after a shootout in Noida on Saturday. The criminals had fired at the businessman’s   on Monday night to instill a sense of fear. 

 Two accused,   Sharma (23) and   (21), are residents of Baghpat. Azad’s brother-in-law Sanju was also arrested for criminal conspiracy. Azad received a bullet injury in his left leg while Vikas was hit in his right leg. The station officer of Phase II police station,  , narrowly escaped as a bullet hit his bullet-proof jacket. The complainant,  , a resident of New Delhi’s Defence Colony, owns a factory in Noida Sector 81. He had told police that on Monday night he was returning from office in a BMW. 
 
 On the way, some criminals opened fire at his car but he accelerated and escaped. Vij said that on Tuesday he received a call from an unknown number. The caller demanded an extortion of Rs2 crore and said that he was the same person who had opened fire at the SUV. He threatened the businessman of dire consequences if the demands were not met. Vij then registered an FIR in Phase II police station. Shahvez Khan said the police put the accused’s mobile number on surveillance and found that it was a stolen mobile. The police deployed a PCR at the businessman’s company office. 
 
 The accused called the businessman and threatened that once the PCR leaves the company office, ‘he would be taught a lesson.’ The police then figured out that the accused would be moving somewhere around the company office, since they were update about the security arrangements. As a tactical move, the police removed the PCR van from the company office and deployed a team in plainclothes. Arun Kumar Singh, SP (city) Noida, said that two criminals reached the spot on a bike at around 6 pm. 
 
 “They were again planning to fire at the businessman’s car to threaten him. The police chased them but the criminals opened fire. The police returned the fire and the criminals were injured,” he said. During interrogation, Vikas said that his brother-inlaw Sanju, was also at the spot. The police then arrested Sanju too. Azad holds an ITI degree and works for IGL in Noida, police said. He was known to Sanju through Vikas. Azad’s friend Arvind had been driving the businessman’s car for the past two years. However, he was sacked from the job two years ago. 
 
 Arvind was unhappy with his former employer and he informed Azad that the businessman can give around Rs 2 crore easily if he is pressurized. The four accused then plotted the extortion. Arvind is absconding.
