JAIPUR: A diploma course in   (a religious ritual usually practiced by Brahmins) introduced by the department of Skills, Employment and Entrepreneurship department is blurring the caste barriers. The religious practice considered exclusive to Brahmin community has found takers from communities like Rajput, Jat and other OBCs along with females.

 The department’s first two batches of Karmkand course— Jaipur and   has enrolments from different communities chanting and reciting religious hymns. The programme has ‘Solah Sanskars’, ‘Mantra Uccharans’, ‘Archan Poojas’, making of ‘Pooja Samgri’, understanding Sanskrit literature. Special focus is on writing and speaking fluent and correct Sanskrit.
 
 “The training is also focussing on preparing youth in different trades related to different articles and offerings which can be used in the temples. The main aim is to help the youth explore our ancient dharma and to come up with business models,” said an official of skill department. 
 
 Other than discharging religious duties, the course will prepare students to acquire role as motivational speakers, Yoga and priests abroad. “Sanskrit speaking priests are in demand in the west. Those holding certificates can have an upper edge over those who were born in the priest families but not familiarised with Sanskrit,” said an official. 
 
 The course is gaining popularity as four institutes in the state, including two from this year have announced to run three to six month-course in the state. Designed by  , the programme is open for all caste and communities. It is intended to promote the religious practice which is practiced in every Hindu household, at least after birth of a child. The eligibility criteria is class XII.
 
 Koslendra Das, a priest and Sanskrit scholar says that introducing the religious practices in academics will retain its scientific and religious significance. “I am happy that several educational institutions are fast picking up courses that have religious values,” said Das.
 
 
