 as it is called in Maharashtra, is being celebrated on March 18 this year. The day is considered very auspicious as it marks the beginning of Satayug. It is believed that Lord Brahma created the universe on this day. Ugadi or Gudi Padwa is celebrated as New Year for the people of Andhra Pradesh, Sindh, Manipur, Karnataka and Maharashtra.

 The word Ugadi is derived from two words ‘Yuga’ and ‘Adi’, where yuga means ‘age’ and adi means ‘beginning’. So, here we bring to you some wishes, greetings and whatsapp messages that you can send to your loved ones on the auspicious occasion of Ugadi.
 
 May Ugadi usher in prosperity and new beginnings. Wishing you lots of love on the happy occasion of Ugadi. 
 
 On the auspicious occasion of Ugadi, I pray to God that he may give you good health and success. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 May the divine light of Ugadi make all your dreams come true. 
 May you excel in whatever you do.
 Happy Ugadi
 
 May this Ugadi bring in you the brightest and choicest happiness and love you have ever wished for!
 May this Ugadi bring you the utmost in peace and prosperity. 
 May lights triumph over darkness. 
 May peace transcend the earth. 
 Happy Ugadi!
 
 Let’s welcome Ugadi with great hope, eagerness and anticipation.
 Let us look forward to a plentiful of joy, satisfaction, peace and prosperity.
 Happy Ugadi!
 
 May this Ugadi usher cheerfulness, enriching the hearts of people with good health, wealth and joy. Happy Ugadi!
 
 With a smile and a spirit of giving, a sense of humanity, a pledge to spread peace and happiness let’s celebrate the beginning of the new year.
 Happy ugadi!
 
 This Ugadi, may your enemies become friends, the darkness of negativity fades away from your life and you discover a new person within you. Happy New Year!
 
 The raw mangoes, neem and jaggery represent the sweet, sour and bitter flavors of life. May the flavors of Ugadi fill your life in the coming year! 
 Happy Ugadi!
 
 Wish all your dreams come true this Ugadi and you excel in every sphere of life! May you have a happy and prosperous Ugadi! 
 
 Let the memories of moments shared with your loved ones fill your heart this Ugadi!
 
 On this auspicious moment of Ugadi I pray to God for your health and happiness! May Lord Ganesha fulfill all your dreams! 
 Happy Ugadi!
 
  
  
 
 The God created the world on the eve of Ugadi for his loving creations to live in it with harmony. May this Ugadi bring peace and balance to your life!
 
 Welcome the New Year with complete anticipation, hope and eagerness.
 Look forward to a bountiful year of prosperity, satisfaction and peace.
 Have a very happy Ugadi!
 
 This Ugadi, I’m wishing you a life filled with peace, cheer and laughter.
 I pray that you gain might and strength to accept life’s ups and downs.
 Happy Ugadi to you!
 
 This Ugadi, I wish you to have a new year filled with laughter, joy and fulfilment.
 May the best returns of life be with you.
 Have a blessed Ugadi!
 
 Best wishes to you and your family this Ugadi Festival.
 Have lots of fun and bond!
 Let the Ugadi Festival usher in joyous and great New Year
 Happy Ugadi to you and to your family!
 
 Put all the shadows of the past behind
 Let’s look forward to new start
 Realize new aspirations and dreams
 Find new courage and hope to achieve them.
 Wishing you an Ugadi filled with happiness and fun!
 
  
  
 May you be blessed this Ugadi.
 May the New Year bring you a life that is
 successful, abundant, prosperous and contenting.
 Have a happy Ugadi!
 
 Welcome the New Year with complete anticipation, hope and eagerness.
 Look forward to a bountiful year of prosperity, satisfaction and peace.
 Have a very happy Ugadi!
 
 This Ugadi, I’m wishing you a life filled with peace, cheer and laughter.
 I pray that you gain might and strength to accept life’s ups and downs.
 Happy Ugadi to you!
 
 Celebrate Ugadi with complete cheer and joy,
 Together with people you love and love you back
 Have a happy Ugadi!
 
 Best wishes to you this New Year,
 Celebrate this Ugadi with heart filled with fulfillment and joy.
 Happy Ugadi!
 
 May Ugadi festival bring in harmony, love and peace to your family.
 Have a home filled with joy and laughter.
 And have a peaceful Ugadi celebration.
 Happy Ugadi!
 
 
 Be happy, have fun and enjoy this Ugadi
 I wish that you and your family have the brightest returns of the year
 Happy Ugadi!
 
 Make your life more beautiful…
 Create new aspirations…
 Aim for better goals…
 And let the Lord help you achieve them.
 Have a Happy Ugadi!
 
 You’ve been good throughout the year.
 Hence, as your friend, I wish you nothing but the best.
 May all of your wishes come true.
 Have a blessed Ugadi Festival!
 
 Wishing you a happy and prosperous Ugadi
 May this year bring you lots of happiness and life.
 Ugadi Subhakankshalu!
 
 
  
  
