NEW DELHI: South Delhi areas such as Vasant Kunj, Sainik Farms, Khanpur, Pushp Vihar and Mehrauli; central Delhi areas like Paharganj and Sarai Rohilla and outer Delhi localities such as  , Barwala,   and many sectors of Rohini might not get metro connectivity anytime soon.

 Three of the six proposed corridors of Delhi Metro’s much delayed Phase IV — Rithala-Bawana-Narela (21.7 kms), Tughlakabad-Aerocity (20.2 kms) and Inderlok-Indraprastha (12.6 kms) — have been found financially unviable in a report prepared by the finance department of the Delhi government and would not get a go-ahead currently. A committee has been set up to revisit and refine the findings of the department.
 
 
  
 Speaking after flagging off the first stretch of Delhi Metro’s Pink Line last month, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that officials have found some of the proposed corridors of the Phase IV project ‘financially unviable’. He said that the Delhi government take some time before giving the approval for the corridors it finds unviable.
 
 With the Phase IV project facing delays, the   ( ) had recently written to both the Delhi government and Centre, requesting approval for three out of six proposed corridors of the project so that it can begin work. The three priority corridors —   West to R K Ashram,   to Mukundpur and Aerocity to Tughlaqabad — have a combined length of 61.66 km, out of the total 104 km of the proposed Phase IV project.
 
 “We found that the three corridors wouldn’t witness enough traffic load to justify the construction cost. The reason for the Delhi government’s worry is that the centre doesn’t share operational losses anymore since the opening of metro’s Phase III,” he said. “The government wants to be extra sure about the financial viability of the corridors because operational losses would have to be completely borne by the state government,” he said.
 
 “We are equally passionate about the metro as a mode of transport and it is a matter of pride for us. It is a reliable mode of connectivity but we want to be 100% sure that the routes under scrutiny are financially viable. We don’t want another fare hike,” Delhi’s transport minister Kailash Gahlot told TOI. He said that the government also doesn’t want 100% operating losses to be borne by the Delhi government.
 
 The Phase IV of Delhi Metro, which has a total length of 104 kms and will cost Rs. 55,208 crore, was approved in principle by the Delhi government in January 2017 but a final approval and financial commitment is awaited. Both Delhi government and the centre have an equal stake in   Rail Corporation (DMRC) and follow a 50:50 equity sharing model.
 
 
