GURUGRAM: Applied for a   and worried about going through police verification? Fret not.

 Gurugram police have made the entire process paperless to reduce the time and hassle of police verification for passport applicants. Now, cops will conduct on-spot verification using tablets given to them and upload the report on the Union external affairs ministry’s ‘mPassport Police App’ in real time. 
 
  
 Currently, the processing of passport takes about 25 days, out of which 10 to 15 days go for police verification. But officials said the new process will cut down this time to a maximum of two days.
 
 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar on Monday handed over 70 tabs to cops, including one to SHOs of all police stations. 
 
 Some city police stations also got an additional two to three tabs, depending on the number of passport applications they receive.
 
 As per this new paperless plan, a cop would go to the applicant’s home who will have to provide a photo along with any two of the 12 authorised identity documents, including voter   or   card. 
 
 The officer concerned will verify the documents and upload the same on the   in real time.
 
 Officials said cops have been given special training to use the tabs and directed to complete the police verification process within a maximum of two days.
 
 “All officers concerned have now been provided with tablets, wherein they will complete all formalities paperless and send the same to regional passport office. This will reduce time involved in police verification considerably,” said Khirwar.
 
 According to police records, more than 10 passport verification files are received by police from the regional passport office in Gurugram daily.
 
 Till now, Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) sends an application to the police headquarters from where it is disbursed to the concerned police station. 
 
 The cops would then visit the applicant’s house for carrying out verification and getting signatures of two neighbours. Once cleared by the concerned police station, the file is sent to the police headquarters before it reaches the PSK.
 
 Meanwhile, in addition to passport seekers, there is good news for foreign nationals visiting the city too with police’s foreign registration office (FRO) set to go online soon. Currently, any foreign national visiting the country has to be physically present in the FRO office to get themselves registered. 
 
 After the FRO goes online, they would be able to register online. According to cops, it would be much easier to do and will encourage registration and hence, help police. 
 
 Police spokesperson ASI Ravinder Kumar said that the FRO office would go online soon. 
 
 
