MADURAI: Strewn garbage has become a common sight in the streets of Vandiyur. Residents said their surrounding has not changed much after the merger with the corporation in 2011 and they are grappling with various issues related to sanitation and basic facilities.

 Residents said that they are forced to dump the garbage in vacant plots and roadsides in the absence of adequate dustbins. The garbage dumped in the few bins available are also not being cleared frequently resulting in the waste to spill around the bins which creates sanitation issues for the people living nearby, said residents.
 
 S Rathnakumar, a resident from   said that the bin located at the end of the street is always overflowing with garbage and when more people go there to dump waste, they have no option but to leave the garbage on the roadside. “It is a common sight to see the cattle and dogs surrounding the bin. As it takes time to clear them, bad smell emits from it,” he said.
 
 Dog menace is another problem faced by the residents here. The poor handling of garbage attracts more dogs that feed on the waste. “We find it increasingly tough to deal with the dogs, especially at night. While the issue prevails mostly during night, the animal control vehicles come only during daytime after complaints are made,” said  , a resident of  .
 
 Even the garbage cleared from the drainage channel is not removed from the roadside, creating an eyesore for the residents. They said that the channel running through Sundar Nagar has recently been cleared after several complaints. But the removed garbage, which was piled on both sides of the road, has not been removed for several days now. “Now, we have to run behind the officials to remove the waste. Higher officials should often visit the locality to make sure things are in order,” said R Shobana, another resident.
 
 When contacted, an official said that it is hard to maintain cleanliness without the cooperation from the residents. Many dump garbage in nearby areas as they do not want to take the pain of going to the bins, he added. He also said that frequent clearing of bins would be ensured.
 
 
