CHANDIGARH: With the Class X board exams around the corner, school authorities have reasons to worry over a drop in percentage with 80% of the marks being in the board’s hands lessening chances of tampering with results.

 The general notion is that results in government schools will see a fall as well.  , a government school teacher and president, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Teachers’ Welfare Association (SSATWA) said, “The
 
 percentage of passers will drop for sure as the system of assessment has changed from the session 2017-18. Some students were not able to pass the exams when the assessment process was easier under the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) pattern. So this year will certainly see disappointing results as students have to score a minimum of 33 marks out of 100. Out of this, only 20% of the marks is in school’s hands. Those schools who had earlier boasted scoring 100% result will fall flat at 30%-50%.”
  
  
 
 Rana added it would take almost four to five years to undo what has been done since 2009. “Considering that the students have been part of the CCE system for a while now, it is inevitable that board exams will be a concern for most schools and parents. The shift from a semester system to an annual one is not an easy transition. The students will be facing a different kind of pressure. Consequently, we will observe a variation in the results,” said  , principal, Hansraj Public School, Panchkula.
 
 
 The performance pressure is telling on teachers considering the syllabus has multiplied. This in return is also burdening students with too many revision tests. Ishita Gupta, a student of class X said, “Schools have high expectations from students which has increased pressure, because percentage system means exact scores. Earlier, parents used to be satisfied with 10 CGPA, but now you need a good 95%-96%.”
 
 
 “This batch of Class X surely has been wronged as a gradual increase in the syllabus should have been the board’s policy. The bright students will still cope up, but for the weaker lot, it is quite difficult,” said  , a teacher from a private school The board exams for Class X were scrapped by the Congress-led government. It was replaced with Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) wherein there used to be semester wise tests and a grading system (CGPA). The idea behind this was to ease the pressure. The system also focused on   and due weightage was given to it. It was both practical and theoretical that were marked. This year the board exams will have 80% of weightage while only 20% will be within domain of schools.
 
