PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The general body of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation on Monday approved the resolution for the merger of   and eight other villages in the civic limits.

 Besides Hinjewadi, the eight villages to be merged in the corporation limits are Gahunje, Jambhe, Marunji, Maan, Nerhe, Sanagawade, Dehugaon and Vitthalnagar up to Indrayani river, excluding the areas under the   (DCB). The proposal would now be sent to the state government for further approval. 
 
 While most corporators of the ruling BJP favoured the proposal, the opposition NCP, Shiv Sena and MNS opposed it. MNS corporator Sachin Chikhale pointed out that 18 villages were merged into municipal limits in 1997. He questioned if the civic body would be able to provide civic amenities like water supply and garbage collection to the nine villages that will be merged. It has been unable to provide basic civic amenities to the villages merged in 1997.
  
 
 NCP corporator Datta Sane from Chikhli, a newly merged village, said that he is against the merger of new villages within the municipal limits. BJP corporator Sandeep Waghire said that the villages must be merged into the municipal limits but the old villages in the municipal limits must also be provided with civic amenities.
 
 BJP corporator Vikas Dolas said 90% of the people in the nine new villages want merger within PCMC limits. The civic body will receive revenue due to the merger.
 
 BJP corporator   said that the civic body has neglected 18 newly merged villages for the past 20 years. Rekha Darshile said that development has not taken place in Punawale village after its merger 20 years back.
 
 NCP corporator Ajit Gavhane said the opinion of each of the nine villages was important and if the respective gram panchayats do not want the village to be merged under PCMC limits then it should not be done.
 
 BJP corporator Mai Dhore said efforts must be made for bringing water from Bhama Askhed dam to the city to meet the growing needs of the city. Every house must get plenty of water after the merger of the villages. Care should be taken that only one farmer is not targeted for land acquisition by putting many reservations on his land.
 
 Nominated NCP corporator Bhausaheb Bhoir said that planned development must take place in villages that will be merged, otherwise they will be like Dharavi slum.
 
 Rahul Kalate, group leader of Shiv Sena corporators, PCMC, emphasized the need for completion of stalled Pavana dam-Nigdi water pipeline project to meet the growing drinking water needs of the city. He pointed out that the newly merged villages of Wakad and Tathawade were receiving inadequate water supply at low pressure for past one week.
 
 BJP corporator Rahul Jadhav, from newly merged village of Chikhli, said that the civic body collects all taxes from the newly merged villages but does not provide civic amenities in return. He said the ruling BJP, after coming to power in PCMC, has started providing more money for development of these villages.
 
 Seema Savale, chairman, standing committee, PCMC, said, “People are afraid to come to the municipal corporation because no development has taken place in the past 20 years. We will be providing more funds for planned development of the merged villages. We will also provide funds for development of new villages that will be merged within the municipal limits.”
 
 Eknath Pawar, ruling party leader, PCMC, said, “We want to create well-developed areas like Wakad and Pimple Saudagar for other newly merged villages.” 
 
 
