JAIPUR: Community-based Management of Acute Malnutrition (CMAM) launched in   for combating malnutrition has brought fruitful results.

 National Health Mission, Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), and development partners organized a dissemination workshop on the   CMAM project, Rajasthan on Wednesday.
 
 Out of 6,304 children (6-59 months) screened during POSHAN-BARAN, the officials found that there were 341 children with severely acute malnutrition (SAM). The officials of government departments and development partners enrolled these children for their treatment. Now, they claimed that they treated these children comprising 52% boys and 48% girls.
 
 The POSHAN Baran project, Rajasthan, addressed CMAM in two blocks of Baran, Kishanganj and Shahabad during July 2017– March 2018 covering 6,304 children.
 
 Health department officials said that since the vulnerable status of   community and malnutrition of children, this district comes under high priority and it had been chosen for the ’POSHAN’ programme by the state government.
 
 Officials said that as per the Census 2011, Baran district (total population of 12.23 lakh) has 23% of tribal population, with a very high proportion of Sahariya tribe in Shahabad and Kishanganj blocks of the district.
 
 They said that the National Family Health Survey-IV (2015-16) revealed that in Baran district, stunting and underweight rate among children is 40.2% and 41.1% respectively. The major concerns on wasting and severely wasting rates are 28.5% and 10.6% which are higher than the state data (23.0% and 8.6% respectively).
 
 The project was led by the NHM, ICDS, Rajasthan and Action Against Hunger-India with the support of  , GAIN and TATA Trusts. During the workshop, the officials who took up the project shared the outcomes, experiences and learning of the project for improved consequences in   (IMAM).
 
 The workshop was attended by a number of government officials from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Women and Child Development, Tribal Affairs, and local Administration from Baran, along with development agencies and CSRs working in Rajasthan.
 
 
