MADURAI:   police in Tuticorin district have arrested a 14-year-old school dropout on charges of raping and murdering his neighbour’s six-year-old daughter. After strangling her to death, he tried to set the body on fire and pass off the murder as a fire accident. But he was caught after police found discrepancies in the version he gave to the neighbours who he himself had alerted.

 The couple,   and Lakshmi residing at Keelathattaparai on the outskirts of Tuticorin, have three children the victim being the youngest and the only daughter. She was attending a local anganwadi while her parents were daily wage labourers who used to return late in the evening. The three children used to fend for themselves on returning from school till their parents returned.
 
 On Thursday, the girl came back early from the anganwadi and was waiting for her brothers to return from school when the incident happened. According to the police, the couple’s neighbour, a 14-year-old boy, saw the girl was alone and decided to molest her after calling one of his friends. However, on entering the house, the friend got scared and fled from the spot. Hence, he cornered the girl and raped her. As she started screaming, he strangled her to death. He went to his house, brought a bottle of kerosene, covered the girl’s body with clothes and set it ablaze after dousing kerosene. 
 
 He raised an alarm later that the girl’s house was on fire. Panicked, the neighbours rushed to the house and found that child was dead, and her body partially burnt.   police who were alerted rushed to the spot. On being informed, the parents returned home and were stunned to see their daughter’s lifeless body. Police sent the body to Tuticorin medical college hospital for postmortem. A case has been filed under IPC 174 for suspicious death and investigations continued.
 
 Police suspected it could be a murder based on the crime scene investigation and evidences collected. The body was burnt only 30 % which ruled out the possibilities of a fire accident. On further inquiry with the boy who raised the alarm revealed that he had murdered the girl and set ablaze the dead body after raping her.
 
 Later, the provisions of the case were altered from IPC 174 to IPC 302 for murder. He was also booked under POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses) act for raping the child. He will be produced before juvenile justice board, police said.
 
 
