NEW DELHI: Senior Congress leader P   moved the Supreme Court on Friday and sought protection of his right to privacy and the right to live in dignity with his family following a series of raids and summons to his son   Chidambaram by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate for alleged irregular clearance of FIPB approvals to Aircel-Maxis and   by him in 2007 as finance minister. 

  "The writ petition is being filed to defend and protect the petitioner's fundamental rights under Article 114, 19 and 21 of the Constitution and to defend his right to privacy and the right to live, along with members of his family, in dignity," Chidambaram said in his nearly 100-page petition, which introduced him as a senior advocate and member of Parliament. It also detailed his three stints as finance minister and once as home ministe r. 
 
 SC registry records showed that the petition was lodged at 3.50 pm on Friday by advocate on record Anupam Lal Das. Asked about the likely date of listing of Chidambaram's petition for hearing, registry sources said there appeared some procedural defects in the petition which would soon be notified to Das.
 
  Alleging "witch hunt" by the CBI and the ED in these two cases to target his son since the BJP-led NDA government came to power in 2014, the ex-finance minister challenged the authorities to give shape to their real agenda of targeting him. In the petition, Chidambaram told the SC that he lived alone in a house in posh Jor Bagh, jointly owned by his wife and son. He said he owned a house in Pycroft Gardens, Chennai, where he lived with his wife, son, daughter-in-law and grand-daughter. 
 
  "The CBI and ED, as part of political vendetta, have made vexatious searches, issued repeated summons, unreasonably questioned persons for unconscionably long hours, unlawfully attached fixed deposits, maliciously leaked false information to the media and otherwise caused extreme harassment, anguish and humiliation to me and my son, and to other persons who are normal business and social friends of my son," the petition said. 
 
 He said neither he nor his son featured in the FIR lodged by the CBI in the case relating to Aircel-Maxis FIPB approval case. In the INX Media case registered on May 15 last year, the CBI named his son as one of the accused along with "unknown officials" of the finance ministry. The ED has adopted the CBI FIR and registered a case for alleged money laundering (allegedly Rs 10 lakh).
 
 Chidambaram said he and his son had categorically denied any wrongdoing in approval of FIPB proposals. "Every government officer who has been examined by the CBI/ED has categorically stated that the approvals granted in these two cases were entirely in order," he said. "The petitioner is the real target of these motivated actions of the CBI and ED. Yet, the two agencies have not accused the petitioner or any other public servant of any offence in either of the two cases," the former finance minister said. 
 
 Though not named as an accused in any case, the Congress leader said two legal questions arose in these proceedings - one, in the absence of an FIR naming him or his son, could the CBI or ED investigate the alleged offences against them, and second, since the CBI has not filed a chargesheet in the INX Media case, could the ED probe alleged money laundering under PMLA?
 
  He sought a direction from the SC prohibiting the two agencies "from continuing with the illegal investigations and from acting in any manner causing repeated harassment to the petitioner, his son and family members" in cases relating to Aircel-Maxis and INX Media . 
 
 
