 film director   recently wrapped up the shooting of his untitled comedy-drama film in Lucknow which stars popular Malayalam actress   and actor  , as leads. Sharing his experience of shooting in the city of Nawabs, Joes said, "Lucknow is a wonderful city to shoot in. I have been here a couple of times as a kid. When I was writing this film, I had Lucknow in mind because of the kind of aura the city has. This city which is known as the land of the nawabs with a lot of interesting architecture, buildings and everything, who would not want to shoot in this beautiful place. We have tried to cover every single bit of Lucknow in our film. The best thing about the shooting was the people of Lucknow. They have been so helpful and co-operative. There has been a very friendly environment while shooting here."

  
  Urvashi shooting for the film in Love Lane in Hazratganj (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
  
  Joes Sebastian canning a shot in   as   looks on (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
 The film was shot at some of the prominent landmarks of the city like the Rumi Darwaza, Imambara, Sultanat Manzil in Charbagh, Hazratganj and more. 
 Actor Tovino Thomas, for whom this was the first visit to Lucknow, liked the city immensely. "I usually keep on travelling to North India for shoots and vacations, but it's my first visit to Lucknow. I feel this place should be marked in history. After coming here I have read a lot about Lucknow culture. One thing which I felt after visiting some of the havelis and mahals here in Lucknow is that there are some cultural sites which could be maintained a bit more. When I came to Lucknow, and after visiting some of these heritage spots, I thought that I should time travel to Lucknow to some 100 years back to see its original beauty. It's not that I find something missing here, it’s just that I wish that Lucknows havelis and kothis chould be maintained in a better way. I think the government should take care of these buildings." He further added, "Lucknow food is just yummy. Being a foodie, trying new delicacies is my hobby, you can say. During my days of shooting here, I tried Sharma ki chai, Tunday kebabs, Lakhnawi chaat and authentic mouth-watering Mughlai food."
 — Prachi Arya
 
 
