NEW DELHI: It took strong political mobilisation for Monday's Dalit protests to rock the country. And while the protests were over the "dilution" of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, they could have an impact well beyond the concern over the statute's fate, especially in the backdrop of the highstakes Karnataka election.

 
 As the community took to the streets and raised a storm nationally,   and other opposition parties - RJD, BSP, SP among others - accused the BJP of being anti-Dalit.
 
  tweeted a broadbrush statement that RSS discriminated against   and the Congress claimed   was the result of its early attack on the Supreme Court order. Lalu's son and RJD heir apparent Tejashwi marched with protesters in Patna.
 
  
  
 
 There was no mistaking the fact that ST/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act has become another weapon the opposition will use to paint BJP as inimical to Dalit interests.
 
 While politics has begun to churn with 2019 in view, the immediate context is Karnataka polls in which the Dalit community's vote would prove crucial in who gets to rule the state.
 
 The state is critical for all. A repeat victory for Congress would be a hard blow to the BJP, while a BJP win would re-establish it as the unshakeable political pole. It would set the tone for assembly battles at the end of year as well as for the mega 2019 contest.
 
 Congress is set to play the Prevention of Atrocities Act (POA) card in the Karnataka campaign. The party has already hit the high note on the Dalit front by repeatedly raising the controversial statement of Union minister and local BJP MP Anant Hegde that the saffron camp stood for rewriting the Constitution. Any attack on the Constitution, authored by B R Ambedkar, touches a raw nerve in the Dalit community.
 
 Add to it the SC/ST Act, which has national resonance with SCs/STs, and alarm bells are sure to go off in BJP.
 
 It has been the paradox of BJP's Dalit outreach post-2014 that high-voltage saffron symbolism has stumbled on grassroots reality. Barely days after PM   inaugurated the Ambedkar International Centre in Delhi, Dalit protests threw Maharashtra out of gear over attacks on the event to commemorate the Bhima-Koregaon battle that the community regards as a matter of pride. The BJP was on the defensive as Hindutva hardliners were accused of orchestrating the attack.
 
 Every time the BJP has moved to woo Dalits through big-ticket symbolism, incidents like Una floggings, Rohith Vemula's suicide and objectionable statements from ministers VK Singh and Anant Hegde have set back its efforts.
 
 Not that it has stopped the party from winning crucial elections. But the damage to its political positioning has been unmistakable.
 
 Karnataka would decide if the impact of Dalit protests can go beyond discourse to hurt BJP's political prospects.
 
 
