MUMBAI: One of the biggest housing redevelopment projects in the city has gone into a tailspin.  , the state housing authority, has accused a builder of illegally selling chunks of its land to other developers and failing to build 3,000 flats for public housing in the redevelopment of Patra Chawl at Siddarth Nagar in Goregaon (west).   also did not rehabilitate any of the 672 tenants of the chawl, who were to get new houses under an agreement signed a decade ago. 

 Mhada vice-president Milind Mhaiskar confirmed that an executive engineer was suspended and on Tuesday, the economic offences wing (EOW) of the city police registered an FIR against Guruashish Construction.
 
  The 10-acre project is part of the 48-acre Mhada layout in Siddarth Nagar and is estimated to be worth over Rs 1,200 crore. 
 
 In February, Mhada issued a notice to the builder, seeking to take over the project since it had failed to complete it in 10 years. The alleged connivance of Mhada officials in the fraud is being probed.
 
 Guruashish Construction, a subsidiary of Mumbai-based builder, HDIL, is currently before the   (NCLT) for insolvency after it failed to repay its various lenders.
 
 Sunny Dewan of HDIL said: "We are not aware of the complaint. However, the company is under NCLT moratorium. Hence, adequate orders shall be sought from the tribunal."
 
 CM met residents after they complained that blder had stopped paying rent 
 
 State housing authority Mhada has accused a builder of selling chunks of its land in Goregaon (west) to other developers. 
 
 Chief minister   held two meetings after Patra Chawl residents complained that the builder, Guruashish Construction, had failed to give them new homes and has stopped paying their rent. Last month, executive engineer (Goregaon division), Mahajan, was suspended after it was found that he had submitted a misleading report, saying the builder had completed more than 80% of the rehabilitation buildings. Mhada officials said barely 30% to 40% of the work was complete.
 
 In 2008, a joint development agreement was signed between Guruashish, Mhada and Patra Chawl society to rehabilitate the 672 tenants. The builder was to provide 767 sq ft flat to each of them free of cost and also give Mhada a built-up area of 1.11 lakh sq m (roughly 3,000 tenements). The developer could exploit the remaining portion of the land as part of the free sale component and sell flats.
 
 A Mhada legal department report said the actual area of the Patra Chawl tenements was 1.93 lakh sq m while the development agreement showed an area of 1.65 lakh sq m. "The floor space index (FSI) calculations of the portion to be handed over to Mhada by Guruashish were based on 1.65 lakh sq m. Thus it was found that there is a miscalculation of FSI, which resulted in undue benefits accruing to the builder. Due to the three-year delay in beginning the project between signing of the agreement and completion of actual measurements, property prices escalated considerably, which also benefited the builder," it said.
 
 In 2011, Mhada issued a notice to the developer, seeking to revise the developed area to be handed over to Mhada. The builder too sought a rectification of the tripartite agreement, seeking NOC for obtaining a loan to implement the project.
 
 The NOC was approved by the then Mhada VP  , which also allowed the builder to start taking bookings for free sale flats and enter into agreement for sale with the flat purchasers.
 
 The Mhada note said Gavai had no authority to modify the development agreement of 2008, which prevented the builder from selling flats without first constructing and handing over the rehab component and Mhada's share of the developed area.
 
 It added: "It is apparent that a fraud has been played by the promoters of Guruashish Construction in connivance with Mhada officers, particularly the then VP and CEO... the NOC as well as deed of rectification and modification were both issued with the sole motive of favouring the developer."
 
 Gavai said the only concession given to the developer was that a Mhada official would not have to sign every time the developer entered into a sale agreement with a flat purchaser. "It was cumbersome and time consuming to have Mhada stand as a signatory during each sale," he said. Gavai also said that as VP, he ordered the authority to issue a notice to the builder when it was found that the builder was illegally selling the land to third parties.
 
 After the agreement was modified, Guruashish disposed of various parcels of land in the free sale component to third party developers and received a "substantial amount of money running into thousands of crores". "These third party developers in turn sold flats in the free sale component to flat purchasers and received substantial consideration. But Mhada has not received either the rehab component for tenants or the built-up area," said the note.
 
 Guruashish has disclosed a debt of around Rs 1,000 crore and has filed an application under Section 10 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code before NCLT. "Out of the 16 buildings that were to be constructed, no building is fully complete. To complete construction would require huge amount of finances. As far as Mhada's component is concerned, not even 10% of the total construction work has been completed by Guruashish,'' the Mhada note said.
 
 
