Ludhiana: With the ward delimitation process over, election fever has gripped ticket seekers for the all-important MC elections. Though the dates of the polls are yet to be announced a poster war has already begun among prospective candidates. What is even more interesting is the fact that in some wards as many as 3-4 candidates of one party are aspiring for tickets by putting up large hoardings. 

 The ruling Congress party too is facing the problem of multiple ticket seekers for one seat. Candidates are leaving no stone unturned to impress upon the senior leaders of party by putting their photos along with theirs in the hoardings. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Gurpreet Gogi, district president of the Congress, “As soon as the dates of the election are finalized the names of official candidates of our party from all 95 wards will be announced as well. The selection of candidates entirely depends on the decision of the high command and no candidate will be entertained beyond the official procedure until he applies for a ticket through proper channel.” 
 
 Ward number 46 and ward number 48 which are amongst the city’s poshest areas have six ticket seekers from the Congress party for the two posts of councillors. This makes the situation interesting as all the candidates claim they have support of the local Congress MLAs and the MP as well. 
 
 However Speaking to TOI, Advocate Amarjit Singh, one of the ticket seekers from ward number 46 said, “I am not bothered if anyone else is staking claim from the Congress party for the ticket. It’s entirely upto the party to judge who the best suited candidate for this seat is. But yes I think family background, educational qualification and personal ability of the person should definitely be taken into consideration by parties and the voters as well before making choice about the candidate.” 
 
 According to Kawaljit Singh Narula, another Congress ticket aspirant from ward number 46, “Everyone knows that right now there is a Congress wave in Punjab and that is why a lot of people have shifted loyalties and even former Akalis are joining the Congress party. But I have full faith in our top leadership and am confident it will be categorical when it comes announcing the name of the candidate for ward number 46. 
 
 
