CHENNAI: Schools across the country can keep their timings and calendar flexible in an effort to reduce dropout rate if a recommendation made by a Central Advisory Board of Education   dealing with out-of-school children is accepted by the government.

 The other suggestions made at the 65th meeting of CABE on January 16, attended by representatives of various ministries, included making the mother tongue the medium of instruction for all students.
 
 Members of the subcommittee, listing the various reasons for being out of school, said, "Many children fail to attend school because timings and school calendar are not aligned to their context." 
 
 Sources in the Union human resource development ( ) ministry said most schools did not factor in seasonal migration, season of harvesting and sowing and local festivals while fixing timings and calendar. 
 
 
 
 
 But that could change if the subcommittee’s recommendations are implemented. Schools in hill stations can start their day a bit late compared to those in non-hilly areas, a HRD ministry source said.
 
 “The three-month summer vacation can be shortened and the winter vacation where students find it difficult to travel to and from school extended,” he added.
 
 The subcommittee suggested that there be adequate delegation of powers to officials at the grass-roots level so that timings can be aligned to climatic and cultural requirement of the areas concerned.
 
 held discussions at various levels between February 2016 and November 2017, also recommended providing incentives to marginalised children on the lines of a policy introduced by the Haryana government and including pre-school sections in government primary schools.
 
 Seconding this suggestion, top Union women and child development ministry officials present at the CABE meeting proposed extending certain provisions of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 to children in pre-school sections (age group 3-6). At present, RTE Act is applicable only to children in the age group of 6-14.
 
 In response, HRD ministry officials said a separate subcommittee set up for the purpose was already holding meets at various levels and a report based on its January 11 meeting would be released soon. When Union women and child development ministry officials and Anjali Deshpande, nominated CABE member, proposed making mother tongue the medium of instruction for all students, the said ministry wanted a separate subcommittee including members from Union tribal affairs ministry and the department of North Eastern Region and primitive tribes constituted at least till the primary school level.
 
 In contrast, governments in Tamil Nadu seem keen on expanding English-medium sections.
 
 From 640 in 2013-14, the number of English sections in government institutions in the state increased to 3,916 in 2016-17, according to annual reports of the school education department.
 
 
 
