Come  , and along with the musical evenings, the air also resonates with the jingle of the salankais of the dancers. This year is no different. With several dance gurus deciding to opt for thematic and group performances, the dance scene looks vibrant. This sudden spurt in opportunities to perform has brought smiles on the faces of many aspiring dancers; their gurus are also happy.
 
 Sheela Unnikrishnan, a renowned dance teacher, says, “It’s true that many of us have started opting for group performances. This is mainly so that we can manage the sky-rocketing expenses and bring in a good number of audiences.”heela says that the accompanying artistes come at a premium during the season, and so, solo margam performers find it tough to foot their bills all alone. “Only a few sabhas pay the dancers, and that too, a meagre sum. So, we are forced to go for group performances. When we share the costs, the burden on each student is less. Also, when many students are performing together, it helps to bring in more footfall to the sabhas,” she elaborates.
 
 Sheela is not alone. There are quite a number of dance gurus, at least half-adozen famous ones, who have been increasingly opting for thematic dance performances, this season. But before you go wow, and give a thumbs up for the sudden popularity of larger-than-life dancedrama productions, pause... for, not all is hunky dory.
 
 “When I say thematic, I don’t mean dance-dramas, but group margam performances. We use our creativity to infuse interesting elements to the regular varnam, alarippu and such   items to make it more interesting,” Sheela says. Art aficionados say that over the years, the number of dance-drama productions have come down, instead group dances have flourished. “This might be due to the research involved, time taken and the exorbitant costs in designing and rehearsing for such huge productions,” they opine. Sheela agrees and says that unlike earlier seasons, she has not come up with a dance-drama this year.
 Sabha slot-buying: an unhealthy trend?
 
 But she cites that there is a major advantage to such performances. “For example, even if a highly talented dancer presents Rama on stage with her full calibre, it may not be easy for a layman to understand it. But when we have multiple dancers on stage, each depicting the different characters in Bharatanatyam costume itself, the idea can be easily understood by the audience. That way, group performances help reach out to more audience,” Sheela says. That said, she says that she encourages students who want to pursue dance as a career to go for margam performances.
 
  of Cultural Impressario observes, “The scene is such that unless you have a sponsor, you won’t be able to pay the artistes. I know several talented dancers who are unable to get a chance to perform during Margazhi. My focus is to pay the artistes, and at the same time, not charge the rasikas. I don’t want the rasikas to pay and come for my events, hence, I scout for sponsors.” He agrees that he, too, has found a footing with group dance performances. Ask him the logic, and he says, “Any artiste would love to perform in front of a packed audience. I found jugalbandis fulfill that aspect; I get audience who love Bharatanatyam as well as other classical dance forms.”
 
 Citing the change in the audiences’ mentality, he says, “Unlike earlier times, no one has the time and patience to sit through a margam performance for two-anda-half-hours. Instead, when we give jugalbandis, they are able to witness different genres. There’s grandeur, aesthetic appeal and also new and alluring sounds, since we utilise instruments other than the usually used violin and mridangam for such performances. I am flooded with requests for my thematic dance performances, involving artistes of repute from across the country not only in India, but also abroad. ”
 
 Lalitha Subramanian, an art critic, says that the trend of group Bharatanatyam performances ruling the season has been on the rise for the past six to seven years. However, all is not well, she points out. “Group performances by dance schools have been on the rise, and now, I would say, the trend has started affecting the other artistes like vocalists and instrumentalists,” she says. She explains, “I am happy when more students get an opportunity to perform on stage. But it can’t be discounted that some influential people misuse the opportunity and use it as a moneymaking exercise. This means, the budding vocalists and instrumentalists are not given slots to perform.” Krishna Babu, an instrumentalist, agrees with her, and says, “I am all for group performances. But I am not sure how it’s going to favour an artiste. Instead, I would say that such performances have become a marketing vehicle to propagate the name and fame of certain teachers and institutions.”
 
 An art enthusiast and a keen observer of the Margazhi season, who wishes to remain unnamed, says, “The sabhas of today function more like corporates. All of them want to cash in on the season and make money.” Pointing to the trend that can possibly ring in the death knell for Bharatanatyam, he says, “Over the years, the sabhaslot-buying has become the trend. Those who are influential buy the   in bulk and resell them to other dance schools and dancers. In the process, the deserving candidates are pushed back. Those who can spend money and facilitate ticket sales of the show, thrive. This has become a money-spinning business and is a win-win situation for the sabha as well as such agents. But in this melee, it’s the art that is lost.”
 
 Rajee, mother of an upcoming dancer, rues, “I have been thinking of asking my daughter to stop dreaming of becoming a dancer. But when I see her enthusiasm, I don’t have the heart to tell her that. Dance has become a business. Even for participating in group performances, you need to pay money. Then comes the expenses like salangai puja, arangetram and so on, the cost of which runs into several thousands and even lakhs. While NRIs somehow manage to get or buy slots, we are unable to spend so much money. It’s corruption everywhere. If you pay, you get a slot; if you get a sponsor you get a virudhu from an organisation. I’m not seeing any scope for talent in this scenario.”
 
 
 
 
