Chamarajanagar: Rs 3 lakh for an   that weighs just 2.5 kilograms - this is how the upcoming assembly election is changing the fortunes of those who are engaged in illegal bird trade.

 A common belief is that owls bring luck for those who see them in the morning. Now owl sellers are using this belief to make a huge sum. Even though selling owls is not new, it is the selling price that is surprising many.
 
 The District Crime Intelligence Bureau (DCIB) police have arrested two persons for trying to sell an owl in Manchapura of the district for a whopping price of Rs 3 lakh. It is alleged that the sellers were looking for buyers from any of the big cities including Bengaluru and having close links with those who are contesting the assembly election.
 
 The arrested are Sambegowda and Kempaiah, residents of Solekube village near Manchapura. They were arrested while negotiating with potential buyers on Wednesday evening near Manchapura bridge under Ramapura police limits.
 
 "On Wednesday we received information that two persons are trying to sell an owl near the Manchapura bridge. We sent a couple of our constables in mufti to verify the information. Once the police confirmed the information, we conducted a raid and detained the duo. We have registered case under the provisions of the Wild Life Protection Act 1972 and handed them over to the Ramapura police," said a DCIB officer.
 
 They told us that people from Tamil Nadu and other areas come in good number to buy captured owls," he added.
 
 According to the locals, since the last few weeks, owls are in high demand especially from outsiders. "Many from Bengaluru and other parts of the state and Tamil Nadu visit the villages looking for owls. Many of them are either politicians or supporters of various leaders. They are seeking owls to keep them at their houses assuming it will bring electoral success," said Kalappa Nayak, a resident of Ramapura.
 
 "Owls were sold for around Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 till the last few days as they are very common in villages and could be caught easily. But now the price has gone up as there is huge demand,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, an officer from the forest department stated that since the last few days, the whole district is under the grip of a rumor that if anyone performs puja to white owls, they will become rich. There are rumours about the birds being in demand from black magicians from Kerala. "Owl capturing has become a big business in the district now," he said.
 
 
