GUNTUR: A 25-year-old unmarried woman from   area in the city died of   on Monday, prompting the civic administration to collect water samples in areas from where there are complaints of drinking water contamination. 

 Syed Sabina, who was suffering from diarrhoea from Sunday night, breathed her last on Monday morning, sending her family in a shock. “We did not think that we will lose her,” said her inconsolable father Syed Subhani. Sources said the family had initially taken her to the Government General Hospital late in the night. 
 
 However, they took her back home after failing to get a bed for her treatment. Subhani, a mechanic in  , said they got some medicines with the hope that she could be taken back to the hospital in the morning. 
 
 The incident created ripples in the civic administration. GMC superintending engineer D Marianna and municipal health officer Dr   deputed special teams to Barah Imam Panja, Sangadi Gunta, Anand Peta, and Old   for screening of water samples. 
 
 Marianna, however, refuted the charges that the woman died because of contaminated water. “It is completely false to say water contamination led to the death of the young woman. We have made door-to-door survey in the area, and found only few people are suffering with diarrhoea.” He said doctors have confirmed to them that the reason for her diarrhoea was food poisoning.
 
 He said that all the water samples in the area had chlorine between 0.5 ppm and 1.5 ppm, which is well below the permissible level. He said that they have taken 268 samples from different houses in the area, and sent them for chemical analysis. Marianna said there is no need to panic about the water being supplied by the GMC. 
 
 Municipal commissioner C Anuradha directed health officials to continue special medical camps in the area till diarrhoea cases are brought under control.
 
 Contamination of drinking water supplied by the municipality has led to serious health effects as 20 people from Old Guntur were admitted to GGH over complaints of diarrhoea, on Sunday night.
 
 Although, all of them recovered few hours later, doctors said it could have turned fatal for elderly people and children had they not been rushed to the hospital in time. Unscientific execution of underground drainage works is reportedly resulting in breakage of drinking water supply lines, leading to contamination of water.
 
 
