SURAT/PALANPUR/RAJKOT: Karni   members and other Rajput-Kshatriya communities continued to disrupt normal life across   by resorting to violence, blocking highways and attacking public and private vehicles on Sunday. 

 Karni Sena member resorted to violence in Surat city by damaging private and public vehicles, burning tyres on roads and clashing with policemen at various places. The protesters forcibly stopped few vehicles, which tried to escape and pelted stones on them. Those armed with sticks even damaged few trucks. 
 
 Satish Sharma, police commissioner, said, “We will take strict action against all those involved in violence. Of the five locations where protests were held, there was violence at four places. We are registering cases of rioting, damage to public property and assault on government servants against the protesters.” At least, 16 persons were arrested and police resorted to mild lathicharge to disperse the crowd.
 
 Meanwhile, thousands of passengers had a tormenting time as they were stranded at various bus depots in the state, mostly north Gujarat, after the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) suspended services fearing attacks on buses. GSRTC officials said that 800 buses to various places in north Gujarat like Mehsana, Patan, Palanpur and   were cancelled. In Banaskantha, buses for Ahmedabad, Mehsana, Vadgam, Kheralu, Danta and Ambaji were cancelled due to blockades on the roads caused by burning of tyres.
 
 In Himatnagar, several buses to Ahmedabad and Mehsana were cancelled while long queues of vehicles were witnessed on the national highway 8 after Rajput community members burnt tyres on the road and stalled traffic. Movement on Ahmedabad-Udaipur highway was hit due to protests near Bhiloda. Traffic on Mundra-Mandvi highway in Kutch was stalled for nearly 10 hours following protests by the Rajput community. Tyres were burnt and roads were blocked in Jesar village near Bhavnagar, Bhavnagar-Mahua Road and   on Sunday.   members also garlanded manager of a multiplex at Khavdi on the highway near   after he agreed not to screen the movie there.
 
 In central Gujarat, the Rajput community members blocked the state highway in Lunavada taluka of Mahisagar district by burning tyres on the highway, leading to traffic jam for a couple of hours. Police finally came in and removed protestors off the road. In Vadodara, the community members took out a rally to protest against the movie’s release. Rajput community leader Parakramsinh Jadeja, who had fought civic polls in 2015 on BJP ticket, said that the multiplexes have supported their demand to not release the movie.
 
 In Mehsana, five persons were arrested for torching three ST buses — two under Langhnaj police station and one under Nandasan police stations — on Saturday night. ”Two were arrested last night while the three was nabbed on Sunday and all were booked for attempt to murder,” said Mehsana SP Chaitanya Mandlik. 
 
 
