 is turning out to be quite a sporting hub as evident from the fact that the Abu Dhabi Cycling Tour was granted the World tour status in its third year by the   ( ). The tour this year, the fourth edition, has brought together an enviable line up world's top cyclists and 17 out of the 18 World Tour Team are competing for the 'Golden Grit' Trophy. 

 
 Promoted by the   (ADSC), the Emirate will see sporting action throughout the year with prestigious events like FBMA Show Jumping Cup, Formula 2 Powerboat Championship, ITU Triathlon Series and Jujitsu President Cup. However, cricket is something   is losing out to Dubai, but that too could change. 
 
 TOI Sports sat down with  , General Secretary of  , on the sidelines of the Abu Dhabi Tour, as he talked about the importance of promoting all kinds of sports, how it is helping evolve the sports ecosystem in the Emirate and how dealing with   is a bit of a struggle for them now. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 From the first year when we studied the need, our aim was to have the race of the tour in Abu Dhabi, so we started to work for it. Abu Dhabi is the capital and has a major land share of the UAE. and it is not only one city, there are lot of cities within, so it is important to showcase all of that in one of the finest sports event of the world. 
 
 It is easy to show a match in a stadium or a venue, but that provides smaller atmosphere; there is smaller viewership effect for the audience, internationally and regionally. But, when you talk about the tour, it is the only platform which can show you the cities. That is the reason why Tour de France is famous, Giro d'Italia is famous; because they show you places you generally don't get to see. It is just not Paris, you see a lot of different places and that was out aim from the beginning. 
 
 Plus there was a big strategy, which we already have agreed and are working on. That is we have a variety of events, so that we always keep the high and attention. There is always need to keep sports interesting and for us hosting the event, and being recognised as a sports entity. Later on, we hope to have more talents coming in to participate in these competitions and for sure that will enhance and encourage the local communities to take up sports.
 
 
 
 
 Mark Cavendish is one of legends of the sports. Even in the UAE residents - local or not, they engaged with us and with Cavendish, as he is one of the example which we treated him as one of our own and we hope he continues to support us. And we are happy that a lot of other riders are coming back and enjoying with us. Elia Viviani has been there from the first year, (Marcel) Kittel did enjoy his time and gave a good feedback last year. (Alejandro) Valverde is there, and the impression we get is that they like it here and it has been a positive response. That is why the riders helped in giving the right/suitable feedback to UCI and that is the reason why our tour was elevated to World Tour status in three years. It is an achievement for us, but it is was our ambition as well. 
 
 And to sustain that we have to do something new every year. That is why we have got the time trial this year. We also want to present Abu Dhabi in a new way. We have one of the best race tracks - the Yas circuit and now we are going to show Abu Dhabi in a different perspective. Through this tour, you will see the newest island in Abu Dhabi, the Al Maryah Island and the waterfronts. The riders will see a lot of different things when they pass by the coast of Abu Dhabi. So the aim is also to present something new from a riders' perspective and viewers' perspective.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 We are the organisers first; and we cannot favour any team. So, the UAE Emirates team has been equally treated as any other team. At the same time I feel, with regards to sports engagement, having a team of your own is good. It wasn't easy and we are happy that the investors and team owners took this initiative. We have teams in major sports - in the rallies, races, so it is good to promote your country everywhere - whether by hosting by having teams in sports. Plus commercially speaking, like big football clubs like Real Madrid, Arsenal joined hands with the likes of Fly Emirates, Etihad et all - these kind of presentations, having our flag visible to the world will always be something to be proud of.
 
 The other side of it is that it will encourage a lot of kids, to have the vision and dream that they can participate somewhere internationally. So for sure, we are happy that a team like UAE Emirates is participating in the World Tour and we hope that we find others owners and companies who can take such initiatives and participate and in other events.
 
 
 
 
 We are promoting everything; we are looking after Cycling and other variety of sports. We cannot concentrate on one sports; there will be only one occasion, after that the it slows down. We are looking for a wider calendar. That is why we started with Judo, women's golf, Abu Dhabi golf competitions, Jujitsu, horse Jumping and there will be a Triathlon next week - so it is always engaging throughout the year, by bringing in the most prestigious events. And through these sports we promote a lot of humanitarian activities. For example, with cycling we have nearly 20 races happening over the year and takes care of promoting cycling as a lifestyle as an activity and that I think will be one of our legacies.
 
 
 
 
 We already are planning to have T20s this year in October. We took over the club (Abu Dhabi Cricket Club) last year. We hosted Pakistan and Sri Lanka recently. In the last week, we had the Abu Dhabi-India government week in Delhi and Mumbai. We try to bring in a lot of teams in here. The only obstacle that we face now and we would like to get over that is with the board. They have some kind of exclusivity, but we are hoping and trying to have communication with them, because we are dedicated to promoting cricket here. Number of new generations kids from different nationalities are playing cricket here and that is our aim. UAE is for everybody and UAE is trying to bring different nationalities together. And for sure, cricket is one of the main sports which we trying to promote because of the potential it has. 
 
 
 
 
