JAIPUR: A drive through  , with its many crossings, can be a daunting experience for commuters. The   norms are lax, and daredevil drivers are neither troubled by cops nor bothered about the safety of others.

  (34) was heading to his shop from his house when a school student drove past him in full speed. The school boy then proceeded to hit a cycle rickshaw a little ahead as he watched.
 
 About two years ago, many coaching institutes had shifted from Lal Kothi to the Gopalpura area. This has led to severe traffic problems at Triveni Nagar and   crossings. Though there are traffic signals at both these junctions, vehicles rarely halt at the red signal.
 
 “There are always traffic snarls at Triveni Nagar, Narayan Niwas and Ridhi Sidhi crossings. Though there are signals and barricades at crossings, it doesn’t bother many vehicles. Till last year there was an interceptor deployed here catch speed offenders, but we don’t see it anymore,” Agarwal said.
 
 Gopalpura thrives because of its connectivity to Mansarovar and Malviya Nagar. It has a mix of both, education centers on one side and a bustling market on the other. By evening, vendors gather on the footpaths and parked cars on either side leave little space for others.
 
 “If you drive through here at 2 pm or 5 pm, you will find absolute madness. Nobody follows rules, parents who come to pick their wards park their vehicles on the driving lane,” said Mohit Jain.
 
 Making the situation all the more difficult are several autos and cabs that are parked on the roadside, waiting for passengers.
 
 Many students, particularly underage drivers, can be seen driving powerful bikes while still wearing school uniforms. “These boys are as young as 16 and preparing for competitive exams. Yet, there is absolutely nobody to stop them,” said Chitranjan Gupta, a local resident.
 
 Aniket Trpathi said that many eateries, restaurants, cafes and even coaching centers doesn’t have designated parking areas. “There should be some parking space so that people don’t park their vehicles on the road,” he said. Local residents said that the crossing here was so chaotic that most often they tend to avoid the particular place.
 
 “During most of the daytime, the crossing is jam-packed. There are no traffic constables to control traffic. People here often fight with each other over traffic-related issues,” said Naresh.
 
 
