PANAJI: Chief minister   on Thursday proposed to the   that it collaborate with the Goa government to host an annual Goa Nobel lecture series. 

 At the inaugural event of the   Series 2018 in  , Parrikar also announced a yearly innovation in science contest for students of all high schools and colleges in Goa, where research on ideas proposed by selected students will be funded for at least a year by the state. The CM called on scientists of international repute to come forward to mentor the chosen Goan students.
 
 “We would like to continue our engagement with the esteemed Nobel laureates and I propose to the Nobel Foundation that we set up an annual Goa Nobel lecture series that my government will be very happy to support. We want to make Goa the home to the next generation of Nobel laureates,” said Parrikar.
 
 Parrikar said that he is setting up two new education hubs in the state as well.“Goa has a bio-diversity hotspot, the Western Ghats, and it has a scientific legacy of its own. We produced many scientists like D D Kosambi, Raghunath Mashelkar and  . Our government seeks to reinforce Goa’s status as a scientific hubof India with a strong focus not only significantly strengthening scientific education in our state but also promoting a scientific temperament across the state,” Parrikar said, at the inaugural held in the presence of four Nobel laureates Serge Haroche, Richard J Roberts, Tomas Lindahl, Christiane Nusslein-Volhard, director of the Nobel Museum, Olov Amelin, and CEO of Nobel Media Mattias Fyrenius.
 
 Parrikar earlier also opened the travelling exhibition, The Nobel Prize: Ideas Changing the World, which will be on display at the Kala Academy, Panaji, all through the month.
 
 “We seek to develop the capacity of our human capital, the most precious resource as a knowledge powerhouse that pushes our nation’s growth. Addresses our most critical development issues through innovation. We would like to assure this august gathering that we would like to carry forward the momentum built by this event around the importance of breakthroughs in scientific research,” Parrikar said.
 
 
