NAGPUR: The state urban development department (UDD) on Monday has issued a notification directing the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to take a call on whether to reinstate or uphold the termination of 17 employees.

 The notification was issued following a self-immolation bid by five dismissed civic body employees in front of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ official residence ‘Ramgiri’.
 
 Shashikant Yoge, section officer of the state UDD, wrote to NMC stating that as per rules, it was not possible to re-appoint the 17 staffers. However, as a competent authority, NMC can absorb them elsewhere suiting their capabilities.
 
 After the state government’s decision, the terminated employees led by  , who is also the president of Vidarbha region OBC cell, threatened that the sacked employees will now immolate themselves outside Mantralaya in Mumbai. “This time, we would commit suicide without any intimation,” he said.
 
 NMC had sacked 106 employees in 2002 over alleged irregularities in their appointments. “Later, we challenged the decision in UDD,” the sacked employees claimed. According to them, then principal secretary urban development department TC Benjamin had asked then municipal commissioners T Chandrasekhar and Manu Kumar Shrivastav to reinstate all the employees. NMC then reinstated 89 employees but ignored 17 others.
 
 NMC’s general body had decided to recruit 17 people (  passed away in 2015) when Fadnavis was mayor in 1997, while two others Ganpat Barahate and Ramesh Bawankar had crossed the retirement age. The other sacked employees included Ashok Deogade, Arun Khopdem, Vijay Hatwar, Yusuf Yaqub, Deepak Potphode, Prakash Barde, Ganpat Barahate, Gangadhar Bhiwgade, Durga Tahliyani, Shalu Khopde, Ratnakar Ghote and  .
 
 “Hearing a writ petition filed by me, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court had on July 8, 2015, directed the state UDD (UDD) to decide on their case within three months. The UDD under the CM had not taken any decision even after 28 months,” said Ghate.
 
 Ghate claimed that he will now file a contempt plea before the high court. “If the state government had to make this decision, then why did it take such a long time?” he asked.
 
 “We also met municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal on August 21, 2017, and his response was positive. Even NMC’s general administration department had also kept the posts vacant,” the staffers claimed.
 
 Ghate ruled out chances of putting his resignation from the post of president OBC cell of BJP.
 
 An NMC official ruled out reinstatement of the sacked employees, stating, “We had already clarified to the state government of our stance.”
 
 
