KOCHI: Agencies like   ( ) and   (KWA) are known as “perpetual loss makers”. One of the major reasons which pushed the   into neck deep crisis is wastage: 45% of water generated by the agency goes down the drain by way of theft or leakage. 

 Apathy on the part of officials and failure of the government to hike the price of drinking water to reflect the actual cost are the other major reasons contributing to the loss.
 
  
  
 
 Though the KWA had taken steps to tackle theft and leakage from time to time, the non-revenue water, which includes loss of water through leak and theft, as per the records still hovers around 45%. “While the nonrevenue water comes to 45% of our total generation, the national average is just 15%. We will have to bring this down to the national average for plugging the revenue loss,” said Mathew T Thomas, minister for water resources. “We will also be charting out a plan and set target for making profit. We have already started work on it,” he said. If we can contain the leakage, the concern can be addressed, he said.
 
 According to the statistics revealed by the government, the annual revenue expenditure which include the salary expenses of the employees for 2016-17 is Rs 1,280 crore. But the KWA could generate only Rs 554 crore through water charges collected from the consumers during the same period. State government provides a non-plan grant of Rs 335 crore. So, the annual deficit of the KWA now is around Rs 390 crore.
 
 Improper metering system is another factor contributing to the loss which the KWA has not addressed. “Many of the meters are not working properly. The meter readers who go to the spot don’t bring the issue to the notice of the higher authorities. Some meter readers wilfully do this for helping the consumer. Such meter readers would take bribe from them,” a KWA official said. Even if the meter readers bring the issue to the notice of the authorities, financial crunch and red tape would come in the way of replacing the old meter. Technical flaws in meters also leads to revenue loss to the KWA. “There are three types of meters A, B and C . In the case of A class meter, it would function only if the flow of water is above 40 litre per hour. In certain areas high flow of water would be for two or three hours while the flow of water would below 40 litre per hour for the remaining 21-22 hours. The B class meter would function only when the flow of water is above 30 litre per hour,” the official said.
 
 “In Kochi city alone, there are around 1,30,000 water meters. Of these, 30,000 would be in areas where flow of water would be less for 20-22 hours a day. This causes huge loss for the KWA,” he said.
 
 Many of the water treatment plants across   are producing less than installed capacity. “We considered the issue and found that overall water generation from all the plants in the state is less than 1,000 million litre a day (MLD) compared to the combined installed capacity of these plants,” Mathew T Thomas said.
 
 He attributed this to lack of distribution network. “We would be taking measures to provide new distribution network,” the minister said.
 
