Cox’s Bazar: At the Cox’s Bazar airport, Khurshida Begum has come to see off her sister who is going to Saudi Arabia. For 40 years, Khurshida has been living in Cox’s Bazar and has seen   refugees come and settle in her hometown. Initially, she was happy to welcome them on humanitarian grounds.

 Today, the issue has taken a more complex turn, she insists. “We are struggling while they are being pampered with aid from relief organisations. There is a lot of disparity between them and us,” Khurshida says before bidding a tearful adieu to her sister.
 
 The friction between the local host community and the refugees happens in every country giving shelter to the di-splaced. “When the Rohingyas first came here, it was the locals who offered them food and shelter. But today, the host community has got outnumbered. The local economy has got totally shattered,” says Shamimul Huq Pavel, the camp-in-charge of five camps at Kutupalong. 
 
 While the host community numbers 6 lakh, Rohingya refugees are 10-lakh strong.
 
 Though the Bangladesh government has played a great host, locals have run out of patience. “With the facilities they are enjoying, they don’t seem to want to repatriate ever again,” Khurshida says.
 
 On the Cox’s Bazar beach, Babu clicks photos on his DSLR camera for a living. If he gets free from professional work, the teenager goes to school. Asked if he is Rohingya, Babu reacts furiously. “I am a local Bangladeshi resident. I am no Rohingya. I have seen them at camps. Some are good, some have vices,” he says before rushing off to persuade a mobile-happy customer to get clicked by him.
 
 Shoaib Islam Arfat, a student who works for an NGO functioning at Kutupalong camp, is bitter. “Only recently, one of the refugees was caught stealing money worth minimum taka 1,42,000. Depending on the family size, we give them vouchers worth taka 730 and taka 1,170. Some got into friction with me for wanting to sell off those vouchers to earn cash,” Arfat says.
 
 Khurshida’s nephew Md Fourkhan HM, who was born in Cox’s Bazar and is now a second-year student, fears that locals might have unknowingly hosted a Frankenstein’s monster. According to Fourkhan, the basic problem is the “greed” of some refugees. 
 
 “Some sell their aid to various brokers. Inside the camp, some refugees are rich. They are even better off than many middle-class Bangladeshi families. They might not have the education and basic manners to conduct themselves but they have no dearth of money. Some are also involved in trafficking Rohingya girls,” he said.
 
 Arfat doesn’t rule out chances of some refugees turning into a serious security threat for Southeast Asia. “Recently, guns were recovered from some of them. Some are very violent, too. I have heard that a few, who used to earlier engage in gold business, have now got involved in drug peddling of yaba tablets. Besides, all refugees are into multiple marriages. They don’t believe in birth control and their population is increasing by the day,” he said.
 
 Arafat, Babu and Fourkhan are now counting days when the refugees will return to where they came from.
 
 
