MUMBAI:   murder accused  , who was rushed to   in an unconscious state on Friday night, underwent CT and MRI scans that showed small vessel changes, but doctors said these could be due to age and blood pressure. A serum acetylcholinesterase blood test ruled out any pesticide poisoning, said a health update given out by the hospital on Saturday evening.

 “Her blood and fluid samples have been sent to both government-run Forensic Science Laboratory at   and P D   in Mahim. The results of these toxicology tests will reveal a lot,’’ the source added. At the jail, Indrani has been under treatment for high blood pressure, diabetes and depression.
 
  
  
 According to the hospital, Indrani, who was arrested in August 2015, was rushed to the emergency department with “sudden unconsciousness’’ around 11.40 pm. While her vitals were normal, she was in altered sensorium (altered level of consciousness).
 
 JJ Hospital dean   and medical superintendent Dr Sanjay Surase said Indrani’s condition was “improving”. Dr Surase said, “She is admitted under Prof Wiqar Sheikh. When she was brought in she only responded to deep pain stimulation, but she is now responding to verbal commands.’’ Her vital parameters such as heart rate are normal. Hospital officials said drug overdose is only one of the many causes they are looking at. “Constricted pupils can have hundreds of causes, right from bleeding in the brain to pesticide poisoning to drug overdose. We are even looking at infection and metabolic disorders as a possible cause,’’ said a doctor.
 
 Mukerjea’s lawyer Gunjan Mangla, who visited the hospital on Saturday morning, told TOI that she was unconscious when she visited her. On Saturday afternoon, Mangla informed the special CBI court conducting the Sheena   murder trial, about her ill-health. Next week, the jail authorities are expected to submit a report on her health to the court. The next hearing in the murder trial is scheduled for Wednesday.
 
 Sheena (24) was murdered on April 24, 2012, allegedly by Indrani, Indrani’s ex-husband Sanjeev Khanna, and her former driver Shyamvar Rai, in conspiracy with her husband Peter Mukerjea. Rai has turned approver in the case and has deposed against the accused.
 
