KOLKATA: A child with special needs sustained head injuries after he was allegedly thrashed by his educator. The teacher has been arrested and was produced in court on Wednesday.

 
 
 According to the boy’s mother,   Malakar,   — aged two years and four months — is hyperactive, has delayed speech and slow development issues. As a result, the parents had approached Speech Plus, a special education and speech therapy unit on Prince Baktiar Shah Road, to seek professional help. He was assaulted on the second day of joining the facility.
 
 
 “The teacher,  , slapped my son, dragged him and hurled him across the room. All these were captured by the CCTV camera installed in the classroom,” Kathakali alleged. “Contrary to the rumours, my son is not autistic. He has delayed speech issues and is hyper active,” she clarified.
 
 
 Aadrik attends two classes — one for speech and the other for special education. Mukherjee took care of both. On Monday, the parents took him to Speech Plus for the second time. They were asked to wait in the guest area on the ground floor.
 
 
 “I felt that something was not right. So my husband and I stepped out and stood outside the classroom. Soon, I heard my son screaming,” Kathakali said.
 
 
 Within minutes the couple saw an attendant rushing into the classroom with a first-aid box. They followed the attendant and saw Aadrik bleeding. They took the child to a hospital first and then went to   police station. Police checked the CCTV footages and arrested the teacher.
 
 
 “The incident has left my son traumatized. He could barely sleep at night and kept screaming. How could a therapisttorture him? I am sure she must have done to this to other kids too. Now, I am scared to send to my child to any therapist,” Kathakali told TOI.
 
 
 “We have registered a case of hurt and added section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act after studying the gravity of the crime,” a Charu Market police officer said. Mukherjee has been sent to judicial custody till May 19.
 
 
 The cops said Mukherjee has lodged a counter complaint against Aadrik’s father  , a doctor, stating that he had slapped her. “However we do not see any valid ground to arrest him at this moment,” the investigating officer said. Counsel for the child’s family,  , said, “Avik is a doctor and, hence, Aadrik’s medical needs are being taken care at home. We have prayed for section 307 IPC to be added to the complaint against Mukherjee.”
 
 
 TOI visited Speech Plus, but the staff refused to speak about the incident. According to them, Mukherjee has been working with the unit for about three years and she was good at her work.
 
