KOLKATA: The city is going to have a first-of-its-kind autism village, a centre where people suffering from the developmental disorder will be schooled, treated, entertained and boarded. The centre will also have a college, which will train teachers on dealing with the disorder, along with a residential facility where parents of those admitted in the institute can put up for a few days.

 The India Autism Centre, an initiative by   and Nandita Somani of Ratnabali Investment Pvt Ltd, signed an MoU with the state government at the Bengal   Summit ( ) on Wednesday to start the centre on 52 acres at Shirakol, around 11kms south to the Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta. The estimated cost has been pegged at Rs 500 crores and the authorities hope the institute will come up in the next five years.
 
 “This will be the first centre of its kind not only in India, but in the world where there will be a day care centre for children, adolescents and adults, a hostel facility, a hotel, an administrative wing and a college for training of teachers to deal with such disorders. There will be international tie-ups and the institute will be absolutely different from any of the centres that we have now,” said Suresh Somani, the joint managing director of Ratnabali Investment Pvt Ltd.
 
 Somani said the inspiration behind conceptualizing such an institute is his own son who also suffers from autism — a developmental disorder characterized by troubles with social interaction and communication. “He is a 21-year-old and he is extremely special to us. I understand that the condition doesn’t have any treatment and there are lakhs like my son who are going through a similar condition. My wife already runs a small centre on   with 45 attendees. The new centre can host upto 1,000 of them,” said Somani.
 
 Somani has travelled extensively to European and American cities and visited centres out there to learn how they treat the patients. “It is not like a normal school where one teacher can teach around 20-30 students. With autistic patients, more than one teacher is required to look after one of them. Hence we are planning the college. Those getting trained from the college will be absorbed by us and the rest will get easy jobs at other autism centres as there are no specialized college and institutions for them,” said Somani.
 
 Chief minister   and state finance minister Amit Mitra were all praises for Somani and his initiative. “This is a great initiative and we are proud to be associated with it. We will lend all support to Somani in this initiative,” said Mitra on Wednesday.
 
 
