ROHATK:   are facing difficulties selling their wheat produce in the mandis (grain markets) as the government agencies have already reached the target of procurement. They allege that the farmers of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and   - which touch upon the state's borders at Hodal, Hathin and Hasanpur - offloaded their produce in these mandis before the local growers. 

 Farmers of other states are not permitted to sell their produce in Haryana. Wheat is being procured at the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,735 per quintal in Haryana while the farmers of UP and Rajasthan are getting lowers rates, they point out.
 
 Farmers have to furnish documents like residence proof and mobile phone numbers to sell their crop in the state's mandis. However, the farmers of the neighbouring states are allegedly subverting the process and have managed to sell several thousand quintals of their produce.
 
 Requesting anonymity, an official in the   (HSAMB) told TOI that the farmers of Rajasthan and UP enter the state at night, taking advantage of the darkness despite police barricades.
 
 "When farmers from outside are asked to produce documents by the procurement agencies, they show them documents of their kin in Palwal district," said the official overseeing the procurement process.
 
 Farmer leader of Palwal district Bijender Dalal said the farmers there also had relations in the nearby areas of neighbouring states. "Farmers from neighbouring districts of UP and Rajasthan therefore seek the help of their relatives and use their documents to selling wheat in the Haryana mandis," he said.
 
 "Due to early maturity and harvest, outsiders are able to sell their crop before the local farmers by furnishing false documents, which hurts the growers of Haryana. Local farmers are forced to sell their crop to private players at rates lower than the MSP," he said.
 
 HSAMB secretary in Palwal district   said procurement of wheat had been stopped due to completion of the set target. "We have procured 6.80 lakh quintals of wheat already and there is no procurement going on here, though farmers are in the mandis with their produce," he said.
 
 On the question of wheat arrival from neighboring states, he said more than farmers, it was the traders who brought produce in loaded trucks, which was difficult to spot. "Police posts have been alerted not to let tractor-trailersin but it is difficult to segregate the wheat-laden trucks," he said.
 
 
