
    will land in Kolkata only a few hours prior to their clash against   in the   on Wednesday after the chartered flight they were travelling encountered “technical issues” and had to make an emergency landing at the   in Goa.
 
  FC Goa were unable to get all their players and technical staff on a single flight to Kolkata because of the last-minute change in fixtures and festive season. The club instead felt it was best to charter a flight.
  
  Coach   also decided to train in Goa itself on the eve of their match and take an afternoon flight to Kolkata. Things didn’t go according to plan when the 40-member contingent gathered at the Dabolim international airport on Tuesday. There were two delays before the chartered flight finally took off but something didn’t seem right.
  
  “It wasn’t a smooth take off. You could tell that there was something wrong with the flight. About 20 minutes into our journey, we suddenly heard a loud sound. Then there was an announcement that the flight is turning back because of technical issues,” a member of the team told TOI on Tuesday.
  
  The landing, not surprisingly, wasn’t smooth, and left the players rattled.
  
  “It was frightening. All of us were scared during the landing. The sight of ambulances and fire engines at the airport meant this was an emergency,” said the source.
  
  FC Goa are now expected to take another chartered flight to Kolkata on Wednesday morning. Sources said the flight has been scheduled to take off at 10am but with the Navy controlling the airport and enforcing a ban on flight movement between 8.30am and 12.30pm, it will be another nervous wait for the Goan franchise. The club though said necessary permissions have already been obtained from the Navy.
  
  The flight journey to Kolkata from Goa takes approximately 2:45 hrs which will leave Lobera’s team with little time to recover ahead of the 8pm kick-off at the   Stadium. According to ISL guidelines, teams should report at the match venue 90 minutes before kick-off.
  
  FC Goa will certainly not be pleased with the developments, particularly after making it clear that the change in fixtures had upset their plans.
  
  “We had a plan in place sporting-wise and logistically as well, with regard to the flights and stay. Changes like this can hurt the final standings of the league table,” coach Lobera had said earlier.
  
  FC Goa are placed fifth with 12 points from six matches but have two matches in hand to regain their place at the top of the table.
