KOLKATA: The state has handed over the land, where five buildings encroaching the   alignment stood, to the executing agency of the 34km Metro project.

 The office of Antara Acharya, North 24-Parganas district magistrate, on Thursday spoke to engineers of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited and informally handed over the Mahishbathan site, next to the flyover connecting New Town with Salt Lake Sector V. “The formalities of handing over the land in writing can come later. We just want the work to start as soon as possible,” a district official said. RVNL officials have also started taking measurement of the site. Officials at the DM’s office said next on their agenda was the shifting of the 40-odd shanties in the area, for which arrangements are being made.
 
 The agency will first barricade the plots, the one where a five-storey hotel stood, one where the Mahishgote Primary School was located and the plots where three two-storey buildings had come up. After barricading, RVNL will supervise the removal of electric cables; in fact, the agency has already paid   to remove the underground cable lines there.
 
 The   had first sent across a demolition notice to the encroaching structures and soon, in a late-evening drive on March 29, it deployed backhoe loaders to raze the hotel and three other structures. The school building was kept out of the notification as RVNL had taken it over last year and demolished the wall first in February, 2017. The school has been shifted elsewhere and compensation paid to the state school education department.
 
 But this hand-over does not quite clear the entire path. Two encroaching structures—built after the Metro alignment was announced in 2011—continue to act as a bottleneck for the 1.45km stretch of viaduct, which has been stuck for seven years. Their demolition has been put on hold owing to legal cases.
 
 The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation over the past fortnight has pulled down five structures, two big and three small. They removed the erstwhile   campus, along with three two-storey structures, and the five-storey Blue Orchid hotel, a few yards away. These were among the seven buildings that were standing in the way of the Metro alignment between   and Airport, running across E M Bypass. RVNL is now waiting to remove the remaining two buildings: the five-storey Megacity Inn, whose owner has moved the land reforms and tenancy tribunal, and Ramdhanu Complex, where flat-owners have moved  . Balaram Chowdhury, owner of the fivestorey hotel which has been demolished, said, “We shall present our case before the chief minister and seek compensation that matches the value of our fivestorey building. The CM is busy with the panchayat elections now.”
 
 A district official said, “We will inform the tribunal that Megacity Inn was built after the Metro project notification was issued in 2009. We hope the tribunal will let us proceed with the demolition.”
 
