HYDERABAD: It was a Valentine's Day gift by Nizam VI Mir   to the orphans of Hyderabad in memory of   Victoria. The day was February 14, 1905. The Nizam VI, who was known as a messiah of the poor and orphans, endowed one of his grand palaces to the British government to run an orphanage.In the last 112 years, the orphanage had sheltered thousands of boys and girls and provided them quality higher education.But, now the orphanage, a heritage structure of historical and social significance, has fallen on bad days. Politicians in the last three decades took a heavy toll on the orphanage. It all began in 1997 when the state government gave away a portion of the land to a Rythu Bazaar. The latest political onslaught on the historical site is the decision to hand over 10 acres of Victoria Memorial (VM) Home for Orphans to the Rachakonda police commissionerate. A parcel of land is also earmarked for a super-speciality hospital and a shopping complex.

 Sadly, the imposing VM Home building, a `gift of love' for the orphans by the ruler of the erstwhile princely state of Hyderabad, is also in a state of neglect.The old building needs urgent repairs and upkeep to increase its structural stability and prolong its life span. Mahbub Ali Khan had a penchant for palaces. He kept on changing palaces from Purani Haveli to Falaknuma to  .He built a grand palace at Saroornagar known as Saroornagar Palace. The Nizam spent a considerable time on finalizing the designs. Eminent Muslim scholar and author Omar Khalidi in his “A Guide to Architecture in Hyderabad“, mentioned that the Nizam VI had got made 140 drawings at a cost of 600 pound sterling in 1882.
 
 
 
 
 
 “Mahbub Ali Khan fell ill with typhoid while visiting the palace under construction. Deeming this episode inauspicious, the Nizam halted construction and nearly abandoned the project. At the persuasion of British Resident David Barr, the Nizam decided to donate the building to an orphanage and presented it after completion of construction on St Valentine's Day, February 14, 1905. Built in Indian Islamic style, the palace was renamed as Victoria Memorial Orphanage after the British Queen. The building is rectangular in shape, 420 feet in length, 285 feet wide and 32 feet tall. An arched entrance and high-ceilinged large halls mark this palace,“ Khalidi wrote.
 
 Vedere Ravinder Reddy, a representative of VM a representative of VM Orphanage Old Boys' Association, told TOI that an RTI query revealed that the orphanage's land is a trust property and it does not belong to the state government. “The original extent of land was 73.33 acres. Parcels of the land were allotted to a petrol bunk, mobile tower, Rythu Baazar, and now to Rachakonda police.The Rythu bazaar has not paid the rental (Rs 1.09 lakh a month) since 2009. The money would have been of great help to the orphanage,“ Ravinder Reddy said, demanding that VM home for orphans be declared as a University for Orphans.
 
 
