In the second Qualifier of the 2018 Indian Premier League, twice in the match, it seemed that   would run away with the game. Both times, it was one man who spoiled their party. Afghan sensation Rashid Khan first belted 34 runs off 10 balls and then returned to take three wickets to lead Hyderabad into the finals – almost single-handedly. The performance prompted many to label it the best all-round performance in   history and caused others to start a Twitter campaign demanding Indian citizenship for the 19-year-old. “Apna Rashid Khan de do, hamara Kamaal Rashid Khan le lo,” tweeted one user. Even External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj directed Rashid to the Home Ministry for citizenship matters in a now-deleted tongue-in-cheek tweet. The furore prompted   President Ashraf Ghani to clarify their hero was not up for grabs. “...Rashid reminds us whats best about Afg. He remains an asset to the cricketing world. No we are not giving him away,” Ghani wrote on Twitter, tagging Prime Minister  .

  
  
  
  
 
 Rashid cementing himself as one of the most popular faces in IPL this season has marked a shift in where the most popular foreign players in the league come from. In earlier seasons, the most-talked-about foreign players in the IPL were often names from South Africa, Australia, and the West Indies. You had your AB de Villiers, Chris Gayle and Shane Watson. Now, you have a Rashid Khan. It is to Rashid’s credit that in a league with the likes of Sunil Narine, Kane Williamson and  , he has emerged as the poster boy of foreign names in the league. And he isn’t alone. This year’s foreign participation in the IPL has a very subcontinental feel to it. Following Rashid’s footsteps are two 17-year-old spinners – compatriot Mujeeb ur Rahman, and Nepal’s spin sensation  . And it’s not just the pundits and former greats who are lauding them, it is the internet that has taken a particular fancy to these young neighbourhood IPL imports.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 Rashid did not just have fans campaigning for him to get an Indian citizenship. Even celebrities were tweeting paeans to him.   called him ‘the best spinner in the world’, while superstar Mahesh Babu asked him to ‘take a bow’ for his heroics. On social media, Rashid was the face of IPL, the toast of the town. But he wasn’t the only young cricketer world leaders were talking about. Sandeep Lamichhane, 17, also found a new legion of fans through his performances. As the first Nepalese cricketer to play in the IPL, he had already earned a mention from Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Kathmandu last month. “Connecting through cricket... more power to people-to-people ties between India and Nepal,” the official PMO India account tweeted while referring to an excerpt from the speech where Modi mentioned Lamichhane. The young spinner also had the backing of former Australia captain  , who calls him ‘little champion’. Just how popular both Rashid and Sandeep are can be gauged by the fact that the two bowlers were to play for a World XI side against West Indies, alongside names like Shahid Afridi, Eoin Morgan and Dinesh Karthik on May 31.
 
  
  
 Rashid’s compatriot Mujeeb ur Rahman also earned hefty praise for his performances for Kings XI Punjab in the league. The youngest player ever to play in the IPL – 17-year-old Mujeeb set Twitter on fire after dismissing Virat Kohli in a league game against Bangalore and even had team owner Priety Zinta pose with him and his man-of-the-match trophy. Even before the IPL, many former cricketers had hailed the youngster as the next superstar. Same was the case for Bangladeshi fast bowler  , who might just be the most high-profile of these names. The 22-year-old has been a regular for Bangladesh since 2015 and had already registered some match-winning performances in the IPL over the last two seasons. It was no wonder then that he was being seen as one of the players to watch out for in this season. Injury meant that ‘Fizz’ could not justify those expectations but even he had his brief moments in the sun – such as earning praise from   for dismissing T20 veteran Andre Russell.
 
  
  
  
 
 While the superstars from South Africa, Australia and the West Indies will continue to headline the world’s richest T20 league in the seasons to come, it is heartening to see that young talent from nations hitherto considered foreign lands for cricket are now providing the format’s new superstars. Their on-field performance is now also translating into much-needed off-the-field recognition.
 
  
  
 
