CHENNAI: Don't yell "what the cow!" the next time you spot a neighbourhood four-legged friend trudging on unwittingly in the middle of the road. Instead, dial 1913 and report the nuisance to the Greater  .

 The civic body has - from January 1 - effected a 600% hike in fine amount imposed on   owners who let animals stray on the roads. A decision to this effect was adopted in November 2017 during a council meet chaired by special officer and commissioner D Karthikeyan.
 
 The civic body used to collect Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,250 as fine for cattle aged below three years and over three years, respectively. An additional maintenance charge of Rs 100 per day (for the course of three days) was collected at the time of releasing the animal back to its owner.
 
 "From January 1, the   will be Rs 10,000 plus maintenance charges of Rs 750," said an official. 
 
 Earlier, the corporation would release the animal back to its owner after obtaining a written note (on a paper affixed with Rs 20 stamp) from the latter that he/she would not let the cattle loose in the streets.
 
 "From here on, we will tag the impounded cattle on the ear. The tags will carry a serial number," the official explained, adding that if the tagged cattle was impounded again, then the animal would not be released back to the owner.
 
 Animal welfare organisations like the   will take possession of the cattle. Dawn Williams, general manager, Blue Cross, welcomed the corporation's decision. "The hike will be a deterrent to cattle owners only if the city police take action," Williams said.
 
 Williams added that the corporation refrained from impounding milch cows. "Unless the cattle owners are brought to book by the city police under Section 289 of the IPC (negligent conduct with respect to animal), instances of cattle running loose in streets will continue to happen," Williams said.
 
 Corporation officials charged that they do not receive protection from the city police during cattle raids. "When our workers impound cows, they are attacked by cattle owners. This problem is prominent in zones like Manali, Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Adyar and Sholinganallur," an official said.
 
 City police sources told TOI that they seldom received requests from corporation before a raid. "If they request us for protection, we will always give them protection," said a police officer. 
 
  
  
 
