LUDHIANA: The   approval to the policy for regularisation of unauthorised colonies, plots and buildings may not bring relief for Ludhiana colonisers against whom the municipal corporation has recommended FIRs. 

 The civic body has decided to approach the   to form a committee to look into the case of 84  . “The committee will decide if they should get another chance,” said assistant town planner (headquarters) SS  . 
 
 The MC had recommended   against the 84 colonizers and stay on their registries till they obtained a no-objection certificate. “These realtors had applied for regularization of their colonies in 2013 when the SAD-BJP government had come out with the policy. But they neither submitted 75% of the regularization fee nor the required documents. The 25% of the fee they deposited has been forfeited. The amount will not be adjusted if they apply again, as they had cheated the MC by not conforming to rules,” Bindra added. 
 
 Now, if these colonizers apply afresh, they will have to pay the entire amount in advance and in a single instalment. “The other realtors will get a year to make payment in instalments,” he said. 
 
 “We are yet to go through the policy. It is likely that most of the terms and conditions will be similar to the previous one, as per which colonies which are 65% constructed will be regularized first. The colonies where 45% of the construction work has been completed will be suggested required changes. And the plots were less building work has been undertaken will have to adhere to all the rules. The condition of 35-foot road and parks is a prerequisite,” said an MC official. 
 
 Bindra said, “The regularisation process will begin after the policy is notified.” 
 
 In 2013-14, about 110 colonizers had deposited applications with the MC and paid 25% (Rs 3 crore) of the regularisation fee. Of them, 79 neither paid rest of the 75% fee (Rs 11 crore) nor submitted all the documents. Five more were added recently to the list of defaulters. 
 
 
