CHENNAI: His credentials seemed impeccable and his announcement of an   team ‘search’ at the T Nagar residence of  , niece of former chief minister  , early on Saturday, drew the media in droves. But, when police too arrived, the ‘official’ escaped, despite law enforcers and reporters on his heels.

 Around 5.30am, police said, a middle-aged man arrived at the house on Sivagnanam Street.  , president of MGR Amma Deepa Peravai, was not there, but her husband K   and a few others were present. Presenting a card identifying him as  , an Indian Revenue Service officer in the I-T department, the man began ‘preparations’ for the search.
 
 The word soon spread and a media posse, including TV crew, descended on the spot around 7.30am. Asked about the raid, the ‘official’ told reporters that other members of the raiding party would join him by 10am and that he had been sent to ensure nobody left the house.
 
 “The fact that the man came alone raised suspicion,” said a police officer. Madhavan then called police saying they had doubts about the ‘official’. Soon, T Nagar assistant commissioner A P Selvan arrived with inspector Sekar, sub-inspector  , and 10 other personnel, including four policewomen.
 
 “We checked the ID card and the warrant he had and we were standing outside, waiting for confirmation from higher officials,” said a member of the police team.
 
 As police were interacting with the media people, they heard noises from the house and they saw the ‘officer’ jumping over the compound wall and running away. Some members of the police team along with a few reporters and lensmen took off in pursuit, but the man managed to escape, police said.
 
 Other personnel at the house began checking footage from the four CCTV cameras, all facing the wall. 
 
 A case was registered and four special teams were formed to nab the culprit. Images of the man calling himself Mitesh Kumar were sent to all police stations and railway stations. Police are looking into all angles. “We have also begun looking to see if Madhavan and Deepa could have had a hand in the episode,” said an officer. Investigators are also checking to find out if any member of Deepa’s party was involved.
 
 Madhavan, however, denied all such allegations, and told reporters that he wouldn’t have filed a complaint with police under such circumstances.
 
 
