PATNA: Justifying the recent appointment of ex-army personnel, including brigadiers and colonels, as registrars in different universities, governor-cum-chancellor of universities   on Friday said it would strengthen discipline and work culture in the varsities.

 “What is the harm in giving ex-army personnel a chance if the university Act has provisions for appointment of retired civil servants in place of academics as registrars. They have been appointed as part of various reforms being initiated by the   to improve higher education in the state. When I joined as the governor on September 30 last year, all was not well with higher education in the state. There were no teachers to teach, students were not attending classes and the curricula were outdated,” the governor told this newspaper.
 
 The secretariat of governor has already chalked out a plan for organizing counselling sessions for the newly appointed registrars.
 
 He said a meeting of the VCs was convened in November and it came to light that the decisions of the last meeting of VCs, held about a year ago, were yet to be implemented. “Accordingly, it was decided that the VCs’ meeting would be held every month to review the progress of implementation of the decisions already taken,” he added.
 
 Asked about acute dearth of teachers in colleges and universities,   said   ( ) has agreed to expedite the ongoing appointments by constituting sub-commissions for interview. “Moreover, the newly created university service panel will also be constituted soon. All the vacant posts of teachers will be filled within the next six months,” he said.
 
 Malik said since elections to student unions were not conducted for the last 35 years, the universities were asked to conduct elections at the earliest. “Today, all the universities are humming with life after getting duly elected student unions and there was hardly any violence in the elections,” he said.
 
 The chancellor said he was also keen to set up common rooms with attached toilets for girls in every institution. “The education department has already asked the colleges to furnish details of their financial requirements in construction of these facilities. The heads of institutions who fail to provide these basic facilities will be penalized,” Malik said, adding colleges sans common rooms and toilets for girls will not be granted affiliation.
 
 
