Nagpur: Dilip Hathibed, member of National Commission for Sanitary Workers, on Monday demanded that   in the country should be treated at par with and given benefits on the line of armed forces in view of their contribution towards the society for making it clean and healthy.

 Speaking to media persons, he said that the jawans were protecting the country by fighting with the enemies to save the countrymen. “Sanitary workers also fight against unhygienic atmosphere and ensure a clean, pollution free and healthy surroundings of the society so that people can live a healthy life,” he added.
 
 According to him, sanitary workers are playing a vital role in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream project Swachh Bharat.
 
 To a query, Hathibed admitted that the state of affairs with respect to sanitary workers in Maharashtra is pitiable and no schemes are being implemented for them. Hathibed, member of National Commission for Sanitary Workers, the government body that monitors the status and well-being of the sanitary workers in the country, was in the city to review the working atmosphere for sanitary workers in the Nagpur division.
 
 The Commission, which is conducting a ground survey across the country and has reviewed six districts in Nagpur division, has found that the states of affairs of sanitary workers are pitiable. “We came to Nagpur some four months ago and directed the administration to ensure that sanitary workers should get minimum wages along with safety kits. It is sad to share that even after many reminders, nothing is being implemented for sanitary workers,” pointed Hathibed.
 
 He said that he will submit a report with the central government to direct state governments on scrapping the contract system to hire sanitary workers as it deprived them of minimum wages.
 
 The sorry state of affairs of the government can also be gauged from the fact that the central government has not provided even a single penny for National Safai Karamcharis Finance & Development Corporation (NSKFDC) for welfare schemes of sanitary workers and their kin in the last four years. As per his findings, hardly any of the welfare schemes allotted by the state or the Central government are being implemented in the state.
 
 There is also lack of awareness among the community members about rehabilitation schemes, availability of pre-metric scholarships for children funded by the union government, he said. “We have informed officials to ensure that the community is made aware of government schemes to them,” added Hathibed. A review meeting was held with Nagpur divisional commissioner and other officials in the city on Monday.
 
 
