The Tirunelveli district administration has embarked on an ambitious mission to provide alternative livelihood sources to the 15,068 people from families of 4,132 sanitary workers in the district. "Sanitary workers toil day and night to keep our country clean. They collect garbage, clean the roads and toilets.   of many sanitary workers also end up in the same profession," said district collector  .

 Stating that this has been going on for generations, the collector told TOI that this was the reason behind initiating project ‘New Wings’ on the occasion of the Republic Day with a view to breaking these shackles and helping them improve their standards of living by providing better opportunities and access to education.
 
 Awareness was created among sanitary workers in the formal (those working for the local bodies on permanent or contract basis) and informal sectors (eateries, hotels, hospitals and other private establishments) in the first week of February. A database of 4,132 sanitary workers in the district and the basic details pertaining to them and their family were collected and analysed in the last week.
 
 "It is an ongoing process. We are confident that 100% of the workers in the formal sector have been covered and that many in the informal sector have also been covered. We are trying to identify and enrol those accidentally left out," said  , assistant collector (Training) who is coordinating the project.
 
 Based on the data, officials have formulated a five pronged approach for the betterment of their future. It includes providing quality education to the children through scholarships, assistance and tie-ups so that they complete a degree, skill training for educated youth to boost prospects of employment, job creation by mooting entrepreneurship and help them get loans.
 
 Statistics revealed that there are 193 differently abled persons in those families, while there are 95 persons including 41 women who are chronically ill. Though ill, some of them did not know the nature of their illness. "We are talking with government and private hospitals to provide them quality health care," Elambahavath added.
 
 In the second phase they are also in the process of arranging regular health check-ups for the current generation of sanitary workers. They are working with deaddiction centres to organise counselling sessions for them and promote safe and mechanised cleaning. Health camps have been planned for all the sanitary workers, regularly, from the coming month.
 
 
