The stir-up over the   has stoked the debate over the neglect of the historic referendum and the people that played a lead role in it. It has also accentuated the inaccuracies floating around on how the poll and its outcome came about. Among the   party’s many lows in Goa has been its failure to claim credit for its part in the 1967 referendum, seen rather belatedly— with the hindsight of all that’s been lost — as the moment that saved Goa.

 Konkani writer Uday Bhembre figures in the list of “38 Opinion Poll stalwarts” who were honoured at the much-hyped January 16 event in Fatorda. The lawyer and one-time politician, among the few living today who were privy to how things played out in the Congress camp in the mid-60s, boycotted the Fatorda event, used merely for political gamesmanship, he believes, by “those totally ignorant of what happened”.
 
 Some of those elevated to the ‘roll of honour’ had not even played much of a part in the poll, he says.
 
 As a young reporter in the ’60s, Gurudas Singbal had a ringside view of the unravelling of contemporary history as it played out in the Goa, Daman and Diu legislative assembly and outside of it. The tipping point, triggered by the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party’s January 22, 1965 resolution to merge Goa with Maharashtra, was met with great resistance by the opposition. “Jack Sequeira and the United Goans Party attacked Dayanand Bandodkar with the ferocity of a tiger. They were the real opponents of merger. Sequeira played a pivotal role to take things forward against the merger,” he says.
 
 But Bhembre has a serious problem with any single player assuming the title of “father” of the Opinion Poll. “I have the greatest respect for Sequeira. As president of the UGP, he played his role very well. He also articulated Goa’s case (in Delhi) really well.” (The UGP leader also went to the Jaipur session of the Congress party at the time, to lobby the Goa cause.) But as an “outsider” to the Congress party, Sequeira had his limitations with the central government, and this is where Purushottam Kakodkar who headed the Congress in Goa, played a critical role in getting the referendum. Without him, the country’s only referendum might have never been granted, Bhembre says.
 
 As the merger issue raged in Goa, Kakodkar, a Nehru family insider, surfaced in Delhi in early 1966. Crushed by Shastri’s stand that a mid-term poll in Goa would resolve the merger issue (a general election would have meant a majority for MGP and a win for merger, Bhembre says) he had taken a three-month sabbatical from politics to travel to Rishikesh, provoking a storm of speculation, some of it even suggesting he might have been kidnapped to derail the Goa cause.
 
 With neither   nor her deputy   keen on a referendum in Goa—there was no constitutional provision for it—it fell to Kakodkar to convince the central leadership through S K Patil. The bill eventually made it to parliament where it was passed in December 1966. But Kakodkar, who was jailed during the Goa freedom struggle and served as an MP, figures nowhere in the script of Goa’s contemporary history in the state legislative complex, where not even a portrait of his finds place.
 
 Not long after the result of the Opinion Poll, Bhembre met with Sequeira carrying a message from Fr   Veiga  . The UGP should merge with the Congress if it meant to defeat the MGP and neutralise Bandodkar for good, he urged him. But Sequeira contemptuously turned it down, insisting “every vote” that had come the anti-merger way—54.20%—had been “for the UGP”.
 
 His assumption was proved wrong in the 1967 election held the very next month. Bandodkar returned to power with 16 seats and 40.4% of the vote; the UGP remained frozen at 12 and 37.98% of the vote. Bandodkar did even better in the next election, taking 18 seats, while the UGP dropped to 10 and the Congress made an appearance with a single seat. From that point on, it was all downhill for Goa’s second most influential regional party whose leader’s deep animosity to the Congress restricted him to a Catholic base, the majority of which too moved away, eventually.
 
 As part of a collective of people from Margao bent on overturning the merger threat, Bhembre and friends rallied around Rashtramat. The Marathi paper financed initially by V M Salgaocar and his brother, Modhu Timblo and his family, and Shantilal Gosalia, became a weapon to not only counter the merger propaganda of the Chowgule-owned Gomantak, but to also wean away the pro-Marathi vote.
 
 Convincing the convinced—Catholics and Saraswats, both fearful of losing their identity and language—was not the challenge. Taking away a segment of Bandodkar’s bahujan vote was. A significant swing away from the MGP is what tilted the scales against merger, Bhembre points out.
 
 The Opinion Poll deserves a commemoration on the level of Liberation Day and must be celebrated in the capital, rather than made into an insignificant tamasha in Margao, says Bhembre.
 
 Both the lead players in the Opinion Poll rewind — Vijai Sardesai and Michael Lobo —who used the event to score political points, now find themselves painted into a corner with the BJP’s obduracy over the statue. Will GFP’s megaphone style politics carry the day, or will Parrikar remain resolute on this one?
 
 The writer is a senior journalist. Views expressed are personal
 
 
