CHANDIGARH: A sum of Rs 18.53 lakh in the   of banned Rs 500 and Rs 1,000   has been lying in malkhana (store room) of six police stations as case property for more than one year.

 
  
  
 The maximum number of old currency notes amounting to Rs 6 lakh is lying in the store room of Sector 17 police station. Sector 31 police station comes next, with Rs 5 lakh. The Sector 34 police station has Rs 2.96 lakh old currency notes and Sector 39 a sum of 2.15 lakh. Sector 36 police station has Rs 2.04 lakh old currency notes and Sector 49 only Rs 21,000.
 
 Police had recovered the old currency notes in gambling, theft and corruption cases before demonetisation was announced on November 8, 2016. With the hearing in the cases still on, cops failed to get the notes exchanged with the time period set by the Central government. It is highly unlikely persons claiming the notes will get them back now, but police are confident that the notes will not turn  .
 
 Police had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the   on disposing of the old currency. The apex court had then directed lower courts hearing the cases to give directions. But as hearing in the cases are pending in the district court, the police failed to exchange the old currency notes with new ones.
 
 To dispose of the notes, UT police have appointed inspector  , in-charge of operations cell, as a nodal officer. Patial told TOI that the police had filed a SLP in the apex court. The court had given the decision that trial courts would pass orders for the final disposal of the case property. The petitioner and respondents would be entitled to claim the property by showing lawful possession or ownership of the property before the court. Police said after the settlement of cases, SHOs’ accounts will be opened in banks in which the scrapped currency would be deposited and exchanged with new currency.
 
 Police said in some of the cases, the accused were not traceable.
 
 Ajay Jagga, a senior advocate, said due to some circumstances the amount could not be deposited. Later, if some situation arises, the administration and the RBI can jointly pass an order to deposit the amount and return it to into the account of the person who claimed it, subject to certain guidelines.
 
