The alleged incident of a semen filled balloon being thrown on a female student of   (DU), has raised questions over security and safety ahead of Holi. With the widespread availability of water guns and water balloons in the market, the chances of injury cannot be discounted. To tackle this, the   hav e banned the use of water balloons, which are otherwise used to hurl at people during   and Rang Panchami celebrations.
The Pune Police have instructed event organisers to ensure no balloons are used during the celebrations. “Water balloons have been banned as they can cause injury of eyes. If we find anyone using water balloons, they will be warned about the consequenses and if they injure anybody, they will be booked for stone pelting,” says  , joint commissioner, Pune Police. Taking chances of molestation into consideration, the JC has also warned that people found taking undue advantage of holi to create nuisance or to harass women will also face strict action. “Police will be patrolling various parts of the city and miscreants will be warned by the police,” Ravindra adds. 
 To avoid untoward incidents, event organisers in the city are taking security measures to ensure that Holi celebrations are safe for everyone.  , one of the organisers of a Holi party at Pimple Saudagar says, “There was a time when security was the least concern during Holi. But things have changed. Things like the Delhi incident are reasons why security is on everyone’s mind. We are expecting a crowd of 200 at our party tomorrow. With such a large crowd, maintaining security can be a challenge. Hence we are deploying 30 male and female bouncers to keep an eye on the celebrants. We also have CCTVs on the premises for the same.”
 Some event organisers have also banned the use of water guns at their parties. A Holi party organiser at Koregaon Park, Saket Sharma says, “For many, Holi celebrations have become an excuse to molest and grope women. We are not taking any risks. Besides having security guards in place, we have also banned water balloons and guns at our party. Last year, one of my close friends experienced something unpleasant, where a stranger had thrown 
 balloon filled with kerosene on her. It is better to ban such things all together.” Ruhi Bhutani, a Holi party organiser at Baner has banned alcohol to maintain security. She says, “Under the influence of alcohol, many people cross the line of decency during Holi celebrations. So alcohol is a no-no at our event this year.”
 
 
