Nagpur: South Central Zone Cultural Centre ( ), the prestigious cultural hub headquartered in the city is all set to get a new full-time director by the first fortnight of April.

 This information was given by Indrajeet Grover, director, North Zone Cultural Centre, who holds the additional charge at Nagpur too. “Three names have been finalized after interviews of the applicants, which were held at Mumbai on March 6,” Grover said during a media interaction organized at the centre on eve of four-day Atulya Bharat festival, which opens on Friday.
 
 The festival was postponed twice before. It was to be held on March 8 and was later postponed to March 15. It will now finally get underway.
 
 “It is our mandate to hold these craft and cultural festivals to encourage and benefit various folk, tribal and contemporary artistes in the sphere of art, dance, music and craft,” Grover told the media while handling a query on the need for this festival when Orange City craft mela had been organized just three months ago.
 
 “We hold back to back craft and cultural festivals and our effort is not to repeat artistes. This way, we provide a platform to a wider section of artistes and craftsmen,” he said.
 
 To be inaugurated at 2.30pm, the Atulya Bharat festival, being organized for the first time in the city, will feature more than 200 folk artistes and 40 craftsmen.
 
 “The unique features of this festival are the live demonstrations of Bidari craft, carpet weaving, leather puppet making, bell metal craft, wood work and Khurja pottery painting,” Grover said.
 
 “The painting camps will be held from 11am to 7pm while the craft demos and sale will begin from 2.30pm,” he added.
 
 Besides the presentations of folk dances from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Gujarat, vocal music and dance performances will be presented by renowned vocalist Malani Awasthi, Dhrupad artist Pt Jagat Narain Pathak, symphony by Deep Sarkar and group, Odishi dance by Kavita Diwedi, and dance based on Sufi music by Deepwanta Singh Roy.
 
 Vidya Lal will make a Kathak presentation. The highlight of the performing art forms will be a Bharatanatyam presentation by Saroja Vaidyanathan and troupe titled “Namami Gange”. A rangoli exhibition based on the concept of Atulya Bharat will also be organized by artists from Mumbai.
 
 
