NEW DELHI: In the corridors of wrestling, people have of late been talking in hushed voices about double Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar’s impending retirement after the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in Australia from April 4 to 15.

 
 
 
 Top officials of Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) have been of the same view. And, anticipating Sushil’s departure from international arena, Sushil’s challengers in the 74kg category, Praveen Rana and Jitender, have even started preparing for this year’s Jakarta   to be held in August-September, hoping to make the cut.
 
 But for all those nursing the desire to dethrone Sushil and become his successor, the 2012 London Olympics silver medallist isn’t looking to hang his boots, at least not after Gold Coast as speculated. In fact, the 34-year-old from Baprola village in Najafgarh is looking to play the party-pooper.
 
 
 
 The celebrated wrestler said on Thursday that he is looking to compete at the Asian Games and the   to be held in Budapest, Hungary from October 22-28.
 
 “I am not going anywhere. All those who are talking about my impending retirement after the CWG, let me set the record straight. I will be appearing for the trials for the Asian Games and will also compete for a place in the squad for the Worlds. This year I will play both the events and then take a call on my future. I am ready to face Rana, Jitender or whoever comes my way,” Sushil told TOI.
 
 “My body is holding up well. I am fitter than ever before. I am recovering well from my knee injury (which forced him to miss the PWL and Asian Championships in Kyrgyzstan). I didn’t want to aggravate it keeping the CWG in mind. I will soon leave for a training stint in Georgia before flying straight to Gold Coast,” he added.
 
 With Sushil eager to prolong his career, all fans who want to see another mouth-watering duel between Sushil and his rival Rana, would get to see the two clash during the trials for the Asiad and Worlds.
 
 It may be recalled that their bout during the CWG trials led to a fracas between Sushil and Rana’s supporters.
 
 Sushil’s name hasn’t been recommended by the WFI for receiving funding under the Target Olympic Podium (TOP) scheme. He also isn’t entitled for Rs 50,000 monthly stipend offered by the sports ministry to elite athletes. But Sushil has no qualms.
 
 “I will continue to pay for my training from my own pocket. I will go to Georgia on my own,” he informed.
 
