Kanyakumari: As protests have been mounting against establishing an international container transhipment terminal (ICTT) at Kanyakumari on one hand, a section of the people from inland areas close to the coastal areas are staging protests seeking establishment of ICTT. Most of those opposing the mega project are from coastal hamlets for whom fishing is the only source of living.

 Backed by the BJP, newly formed Kumari Thuraimuga Adharavu Iyakkam (KTAI, support movement for Kumari Port) organised satyagraha protest at eight places here on Tuesday to highlight the need for a port in Kanyakumari. “We are not trying to show our strength at this stage. We are trying to enlighten people and to wipe out misconceptions spread by those instigating them,” KTAI coordinator S Vel Pandian said.
 
 Talking to TOI, Vel Pandian, who is BJP’s Kanyakumari parliamentary constituency in-charge and zonal deputy in-charge of Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts, said that the leaders who opposed Kudankulam nuclear power plant in nearby Tirunelveli district opposed ICTT which was first proposed at Enayam. Due to strong protests at Enayam, the government has now decided to establish the port between Kovalam and Kanyakumari.
 
 “But again the same persons are instigating people in coastal hamlets near the proposed site by instilling fear and spreading lies that their villages will be destroyed and their livelihood completely affected if the port is established. But it is not true. ICTT will be a boon for this region. Officials tried to explain the people on the benefits of the port but the villagers are misled to a level that they even held the collector hostage for a few hours last month,” he added.
 
 Vel Pandian claimed that only 10 per cent of the people were opposing the project and that this is affecting the remaining 90 per cent population who want the port to be established. “So we organised a meeting with representatives of sixty villages in the inland areas on December 26. The response was overwhelming and KTAI was formed the same day. We organised the first protest seeking establishment of the port at Elanthavilai on December 31,” he said.
 
 He claimed that since then those opposing the project have intensified protests and have started organising hunger strikes at the village level, on a weekly basis. So KTAI decided to intensify protests at a few places last week, followed by a sathyagraha protest on Sunday.
 
 This was followed by intensive sathyagraha protests in eight other unions in the district on Tuesday, in which thousands of people participated. On February 2, KTAI is planning to organise explanation meetings on the need for the port. On February 18, they plan to organise a mass demonstration in front of the Kanyakumari collectorate.
 
 
