PALANPUR: Hundreds of bovine were let out on roads of   town of Banaskantha by the administrators of panjrapoles (cow shelters) demanding immediate release of grants promised to them under relief for scarcity-hit areas.

 The situation became tense at one point of time when cow-keepers along with panjrapole administrators entered into a scuffle with the police that was trying to clear the cattle from the road to ease traffic. Sources said the police also resorted to light baton charging that escalated the tension.
 
 Late in the evening, Banaskantha collector and district magistrate   issued a notification banning release of stray cattle on the roads in the district. The notification came in the wake of threats issued by several owners and administrators of cattle pounds and cow shelters to release the cattle on roads in order to protest against the non-availability of fodder in the region.
 
 The notification that came into force from Saturday will remain in force till May 10. It stated that it aims to avert road accidents between vehicles caused by the stray cattle and also prevent cruelty against animals in the event of accidents. 
 
 There are 97 cow shelters and cattle pounds housing over 65,000 bovine in Banaskantha district. “We cannot give cash doll as demanded by the panjrapole administrators as dolls can be given only after the area is declared scarcity-hit,” Sagale told TOI.
 
 The authorities of cow shelters and cattle pounds of Banaskantha have been up in arms against the district authorities since last week alleging that they have not been getting the grants promised since last several years and as a result they have been forced to run the units using their own fund.
 
 Manager of   cow shelters in   said, “Police used force against protesting cow keepers and wailed sticks on the cows.”
 
 “The fodder that government has offered is useless as the cattle does not eat it. We have therefore requested the government to provide us subsidy in cash. Our prospective donors have reduced their donation after demonetisation and the flood situation has washed away the fodders. We are reeling under the worst financial crunch,” Solanki added.
 
 Meanwhile, state revenue minister   issued a statement that district administration of Banaskantha has been instructed to ensure enough quota of fodder for animals housed in cattle pounds and cow shelters. He said Banaskantha district collector is making arrangements to acquire 100,000 kg of fodder besides supplying drinking water through tankers for the animals. Patel further urged the protesting administrators of cow shelters and cattle pounds to show compassion towards the animals and not to abandon them on roads and public places.
 
 
