KOLKATA: Keeping in toes with the revised national Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, some housing complexes and societies in Kolkata have started installing compost machines on their premises to treat the solid waste generated by residents. This has reduced their dependency on local municipal bodies.

 While Merlin Group, Belani Housing Development Ltd and   Residents’ Association have already taken up the initiative, all other developers under Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) are planning to implement the same in all their onging and upcoming projects.
 
  
 “The concept is to ensure zero garbage disposals from highrises in and around the city so that the municipal body would be less burdened,” said   of the   of companies and the chairman of Credai’s Bengal chapter.
 
 According to the waste management rules, all residents’ welfare and market associations, gated communities and institutions with an area of more than 5,000sqm should segregate waste at source — into valuable dry waste like plastic, tin, glass and paper — and handover recyclable material to either authorized waste pickers or recyclers or to the urban local body.
 
 “Kerala’s Kochi is a pioneer in the movement with almost all major housing societies and complexes installing compost machines. Recently, the Credai members in Bengal pledged to be part of the movement,” said Sushil Mohta of Merlin Projects.
 
 Mohta said the realtors have to set up a compost plant at their own cost and once occupants coming in, it will be handed over to the residents’ body for maintenance and upkeep.
 
 While Belani has already installed two such machines at their Hiland Calcutta Riverside project in Batanagar, all their upcoming projects in Tollygunge, Madhyamgram and Rajarhat will also adopt the mechanism. Merlin group has also placed orders for the machines at their existing projects like Merlin Residency and  . “All our upcoming projects in and around the city will also have the plants,” said Mohta.
 
 With over 1,100 apartments South City, too, has joined in the movement. “We regularly produce around 2 tonnes of waste. We are sensitising our residents and will soon install a compost plant within our complex,” said Manoj Gupta, the secretary of South City Residents’ Association.
 
 Appreciating the move, Kolkata Municipal Corporation has offered to tender a tax exemption to the residents of the housing complexes that take the initiative. “It is getting increasingly difficult to find a solution to city’s growing wastes. If a housing complex adopts the model to convert waste into wealth by preliminary segregation at source, we will offer its residents property tax sop,” said MMiC (KMC solid waste management department) Debabrata Majumdar.
 
 
