JAIPUR: After surviving without power for ages, light finally shone on this Rajasthan village this New Year, that too powered by solar energy.

 Neglected by the government and administration, it finally took a group of medical students from the   in Jaipur to bring electricity to   village in Dholpur district.
 
 Because of the ‘blackout’, the village, which has about 55 houses, has not witnessed a single marriage in the last 10 years.
 
 “We had not seen an electric light in the village. We used kerosene lamps at night. But, now a group of medical students from SMS has installed solar lights in the village. Our children can study at night with the help of solar lights,” said Deepu Nishad, a 33-year-old villager of Rajghat with four children.
 
 The medical students roped in NGOs and businessmen to install solar lights in the village with 50-odd houses. They also installed a bicycle to store power in batteries. In case of cloudy skies, villagers can ‘cycle’ for an hour to generate enough power to charge lights at four houses.
 
 Marriages had become a rarity in the village which also does not have piped water or proper roads. “Parents hardly wanted their daughters to get married to boys in our village. Life is difficult here as we do not have proper water for drinking nor power supply or proper roads. We have to drink water from the  ,” said Raju, a 22-year-old villager.
 
 The village, situated on the banks of Chambal River, came to the notice of SMS Medical College students during a pleasure trip two years ago during Diwali. “When we first came to this village, we noticed that the people were leading a difficult life. We decided to help the villagers by bringing basic facilities,” said  , a final-year MBBS student.
 
 They noticed that the villagers were drinking water from a river in which bodies of humans and animals were seen floating. Also, there were incidents of crocodiles attacking villagers. “We didn’t find any scheme of the government on the ground, be it roads, light, water or medical services,” said Parashar.
 
 The medical students then ran a campaign, with the hashtag #SaveRajghat. The group of also wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The   directed the state chief secretary to look into the matter. The students also knocked on the doors of the high court. Recently, the high court issued a notice to the chief secretary in response to the   filed by students.
 
 
