KOLKATA: The ruling Trinamool Congress has started the rural poll race with a 3-0 lead, gaining majority in the zilla parishads of three districts — Birbhum, Mushidabad and East   — without a single vote being cast.

 
  
 
 It has won all the 42 zilla parishad seats unopposed in Birbhum, leaving the opposition to field candidates only in three blocks of the district. It has also gained a majority in Adhir Chowdhury’s turf Murshidabad and the once-CPM bastion of East Burdwan. The party won 48 of the total 78 zilla parishad seats in Murshidabad and nine of 11 seats in East Burdwan.
 
 The victory, however, was sullied by charges of violence and intimidation against the Trinamool since the start of the nomination process on April 2. The poll process claimed yet another life on Saturday, in West Burdwan’s Bhatar, which became the sixth fatality in the run-up to the polls. The Bhatar death came hours after another killing in Joynagar in South 24-Parganas.
 
 A 58-year-old man died in a cross-fire between two Trinamool groups while returning home with his week’s ration when a bomb hit his face, leaving it completely disfigured, in Bhatar’s Bhumsor village. Victim Ramzan Mollah fell prey to the alleged intra-Trinamool factional feud over nominations. On a complaint by the victim’s family, police arrested three people.
 
 In West Midnapore’s Narayangarh, Trinamool block president Mihir Chanda was beaten up by his own party men. Former Trinamool gram pradhan of Keshpur Sanjay Kar was allegedly abducted by his rival group in the tussle over nomination in the rural polls.
 
 Opposition candidates in the fray from   to SUCI made the allegations from across districts to the SEC all through the day on the last day of withdrawal on Saturday. “Trinamool is scared of us. Even our candidates in the three blocks of Birbhum are not safe. We had to shift them to a safe place at Bankura,” said BJP state president Dilip Ghosh.
 
 Trinamool toughs allegedly attacked CPM central committee member Amiya Patra’s house in Bankura town.
 
 Miscreants hurled bombs at the in-laws of Priyanka Ghosh, the Congress gram panchayat candidate from Borbadpur village in Murshidabad’s Daulatabad. An SUCI female candidate from Burdwan’s   complained that 75-80 Trinamool men have been going to her house for the last three days and putting pressure on her elderly parents to make her take back her papers.
 
