NAGPUR:   was stunned by   on the opening day of the Gaikwad-Patil International School Media Badminton Tournament. The meet is being organized by Sports Journalists’ Association of Nagpur (SJAN) in association with the   at Vivekanand Nagar Indoor Hall.

 
 The Times of India’s Dharmendra, who was seeded fourth, lost the second round match against Lokmat’s Kanthale by 30-22. In the men’s double category TOI pair of Sunil Warrier-Manish Sakharwade brushed aside Lokmat’s Piyush Dabhekar-Sachin Vaidya 30-7.
 
 The tournament was inaugurated by  . Chairman of Gaikwad-Patil Group Mohan Gaikwad presided over the function. Leader of ruling party in NMC, Sandeep Joshi and principal of Gaikwad-Patil International School Shabih Chaurasia were also present on the occasion.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, nine-time national champion Aparna Popat appreciated the role of media in the development of sportspersons. She also urged the media to give the importance to the people like coaches, parents, administration and schools who always remain behind the scene in the development of sportspersons.
 
 Dr Mohan Gaikwad announced that Gaikwad-Patil Group will always help the SJAN for the promotion of sports.
 
 Sandeep Joshi elaborated how the Nagpur Municipal Corporation is developing the infrastructure for the sports in the city.
 
 SJAN secretary Sandeep Dabhekar, vice-president Nilesh Deshpande, treasurer Suhas Nayse and member Piyush Patil welcomed the guests by presenting mementoes. Ram Thakur conducted the proceedings, while Suhas Nays proposed a vote of thanks. On Thursday the matches will begin at 9 am.
 
 RESULTS
 
 Men’s singles (2nd round): Pravin Kanthale (Lokmat) bt Dharmendra Kumar (TOI) 30-22; Rajesh Sharma (Lokmat) bt Samir Barde 30-4; Vilas Tijare (Lokmat) bt Avishkar Deshmukh (Loksatta) 30-7; Reynold Morris (Lokmat) bt Piyush Patil (Maharashtra Times) 30-27.
 
 First round: Pravin Kanthale bt Vinay Pandey (TOI) 30-7; Amit Khodke (Lokmat) bt Nitin Totewar (Maharashtra Times) 30-17; Abhishek Choudhary (TOI) bt Anand Anasane (Hitavada) 30-16; Piyush Patil (Maharashtra Times) bt Manish Shriwas (Navbharat) 30-15; Avishkar Deshmukh bt Nilesh Deshpande (Lokmat Times) 15-6 (conceded).
 
 Men’s doubles: Sunil Warrier-Manish Sakharwade (TOI) bt Piyush Dabhekar-Sachin Vaidya (Lokmat) 30-7;
 
 Women singles (1st round): Meenal Jain (Lokmat) bt Tanuja Ratnaparkhi (TOI) 30-7.
 
 
