CHENNAI: The Madras high court order dismissing pleas seeking disqualification of deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and 10 other MLAs for defying the   party whip in February 2017 has come as a temporary reprieve for the beleaguered  . Opponents not too long ago, the EPS, OPS factions that merged into the unified AIADMK finally got something to celebrate about together.

 While CM Palaniswami told reporters in Salem he was “happy” with the verdict, an elated state fisheries minister DJayakumar termed it a “twin victory” for the party and the government. Though awaiting with much trepidation the outcome of the ‘11 MLAs disqualification’ case, AIADMK leaders were, nevertheless, jubilant on Friday. OPS who left for Periyakulam, Theni district, is yet to react.
 
 The opposition has wasted the time of the court by filing a case with political malice, said Jayakumar. “For us, the verdict in the two cases is like having milk and fruit together for the party and the government. If Amma’s portrait case is a victory for dharma, the 11 MLAs’ case is a legal victory for the party,” he said.
 
 State law minister C Ve Shanmugam said the case was filed by DMK with political vengeance. The DMK was using the court as a platform for its political battles, he said. “Today’s verdict must come as a big blow for DMK and its leader, M K Stalin. The party made futile attempts to pull down the government,” he said.
 
 The order in the 11 MLAs’ case comes eight months after the dramatic merger of EPS, OPS factions and has raised AIADMK’s hopes that the high court may take a similar stand in the 18 MLAs’ disqualification case as well. While OPS may not be hailed a hero, EPS’ grip on the party may tighten further.
 
 “The verdict is correct, given that independent constitutional bodies cannot interfere with each other,” said former minister S Semmalai. The Salem strongman had shown up at Panneerselvam’s Greenways Road residence to express solidarity after   chose another Salem leader EPS as chief minister.
 
 Party’s deputy coordinator K P Munusamy, and one of the key leaders of the erstwhile OPS faction, said, “If you act rationally, the efforts taken will always succeed. We believe we have succeeded in our political move (rebelling against Sasi clan).”
 
 Having taken a series of “bold steps”, including hiking the bus fare and introducing a new curriculum for state board students, despite threat to its stability last year, the AIADMK government is anxious to prove its credentials with a new lease of life.
 
 The political message here does not really indicate a setback for DMK, said journalist Tharasu Shyam. “Smaller stones may not create much ripples now, but they can create a big impact later,” he said, referring to the upcoming verdict in the 18 MLAs’ disqualification case.
 
 
 
