 and Raashi Khanna-starrer ' ', directed by  , is one of the most awaited films, just for its title alone. It was the 1998 Pawan Kalyan-starrer by the same name that made the Power Star and his character Balu a household name. Now, the nephew of the famed actor is starring in a film with the same name, albeit in a different story. 

 The OST of the film features six songs composed by S Thaman and penned by Srimani. It is the ever-dependable Raghu Dixit who lends his voice for the first number, Break the Rules. Starting out on a peppy note, this number is a typical hero elevation/introduction number and it's only Raghu Dixit’s vocals that elevate it. Interspersed with a classical 'Murali Mohana’ bit, Thaman manages to blend it into the number well without the change seeming jarring. 
 
 Next up is Armaan Mallik’s 'Ninnila', a song that garnered more than 1.4 million views in no time. The beautiful, slow, romantic number is a treat to the ears and it gets better when heard on loop. With apt lyrics, beautiful vocals and striking music, this one’s a winner. 'Sunona Sunaina' switches things up, featuring Rahul Nambiar’s on vocals. After the beauty of  , this number pales in comparison. A typical Thaman number, with the tune, lyrics and music, there’s really nothing new here, even though it’s a fun listen. 
 
 Shreya Ghosal’s 'Allasani Vaari' is a playful number with catchy lyrics. Lyrics with a classical and poetic touch, interspersed with Shreya Ghosal’s 
 vocals and Thaman’s music create a beauty with this one. This one’s a sure-fire too. Armaan Mallik croons another number on this album, 'Vinnaanae Vinnane'. This number has beautiful lyrics, but the song is yet again does fan-service for Thaman’s fans. Typical Thaman-esque tune and music, this is one purely for his followers. 
 
 Last on the album is the titular 'Tholiprema', sung by Kala Bhairava. Soulful lyrics, tune and vocals make this one a striking heartbreak number. The guitar riffs interspersed with a classical touch and Kala Bhairava’s heart-wrenching vocals elevate this number, while the lyrics make it relatable. 
 All in all, the album of 'Tholi Prema' is a winner, worthy if listening on loop. If you’re a fan of Thaman, give 'Break the Rules', 'Sunona Sunaina' and 'Vinnaane Vinnaane' a chance. If you’re in the mood for some beauty, give 'Ninnila', 'Allasani Vaari' and 'Tholiprema' a chance. Our personal favourite is 'Ninnila' and 'Tholiprema', so don’t miss out on them! 
 
 
