JAIPUR: The country's first-of-its-kind Centre for Converging Technology (CCT) at   has been awarding integrated MTech degrees without having a single MTech qualified teacher from 2006. 

 The five-year CCT programme, which was once the most sought after course, has now been reduced to just 200 students enrolling against the total of 600 seats. A sad reflection of how the programme, designed by over 60 teachers to churn out researchers, is now in a bad condition.
 
 A minimum 16-member faculty, with four each in every stream/subject and two supporting faculty, is required for the centre to ensure that the students are taught thoroughly. The interdisciplinary degree programme is a combination of neuroscience, nanotechnology, biotechnology and information technology. It is being run with the help of guest teachers from SMS Medical College, government engineering colleges and central government's research institutes. The university has appointed a committee of university teachers, who not only oversee the affairs but also teach according to their expertise, at the centre.
 
 Even the guest faculty is not paid more than Rs 1,000 per lecture as the university rules doesn't allow the CCT to pay them more. "The rule says that a guest faculty shouldn't be paid more than Rs 1,000, making it impossible for us to call noted people," said K V R Rao, deputy director at CCT.
 
 He said that while guest teachers were filling the gap, they cannot be equated with regular teachers. They generally come according to their convenience which may or may not suit us. The fee for the course is Rs 45, 000 per semester. With declining students, the committee, which is looking after centre, has not been able to generate funds and use it for academics. Like previous vice-chancellors, university VC R K Kothari has written to the higher education department but to no avail.
 
 This is the only centre of the university which has received financial aid from both state government and the central government projects. A student requesting anonymity says that they chose the course considering its uniqueness. But the absence of teachers has forced them to desert classes. The   (RUAA) has taken strong exception to the state of affairs of self-finance courses, especially CCT. They have also challenged the manner in which university teachers were being involved in such courses in direct violation of   norms and high court observations.
 
 
