MUMBAI: At a function organized to felicitate former President Pratibha Patil,   chief Sharad Pawar said that Patil missed the chance to become the state’s first woman CM as Rajiv Gandhi picked him. 

 In the presence of former CMs Prithviraj Chavan and Sushilkumar Shinde and exUnion home minister Shivraj Patil, Pawar said he was in holidaying in Goa and Rajiv summoned him to Delhi and asked him to reach Mumbai for taking oath as the CM. Pawar said he snatched Pratibha Patil’s chance. She was appointed Rajasthan governor and subsequently became the President. In his career spanning over five decades, Pawar had the rare distinction of being the youngest CM of Maharashtra in 1978. For a long time, Pawar held the record as the longest serving CM for 2,413 days, but Vilasrao Deshmukh broke Pawar’s record after holding fort for 2,681 days.
 
 Home truths
 
 Bachhu Kadu, an Independent legislator from Achalpur constituency in Amravati, is taking flak for his failure to declare all his assets in his papers. A resident has complained that Kadu did not disclose the details of a Mhada flat he purchased in Mumbai in 2011. It is mandatory for a candidate to disclose his assets and liabilities. According to reports, an offence has been registered against Kadu. Kadu has raised questions on treatment of poor patients in star hospitals in Mumbai, availability of grains in fair price shops, issues related to the loan waiver scheme. Kadu made headlines after he assaulted in a deputy secretary. In Nashik, Kadu took on the civic chief for refusing to take note of physically challenged employees. The IAS association had approached chief secretary Sumit Mullick, but the complaint was never taken to its logical end.
 
 Babu back in the saddle
 
 Bureaucrat Radheshyam Mopalwar has emerged more powerful after his reappointment as Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) managing director. Powerful politicians, including former chief minister Prithviraj Chavan, senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar and leader of the opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil had levelled charges of corruption against him. It was alleged that he was involved a multicrore land deal, 
 
 Chavan and Vikhe-Patil had submitted CDs of Mopalwar’s conversation with an activist. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis defended Mopalwar, saying he did not commit any irregularities as MSRDC head. 
 
 Fadnavis sent Mopalwar on leave and set up a committee headed by former chief secretary Johny Joseph to probe charges of corruption. Joseph completed the probe in record time and submitted the report. His findings were that the CDs were doctored and there was no substance in the graft charges after which Mopalwar was back in the saddle. Eyebrows are now being raised over the manner in which the probe was completed and he was reinstated. At a juncture when many departmental inquiries are still pending for a long period, Mopalwar appears to be indispensable.
 
 
