CHENNAI:   ( ) is likely to persist with   as India coach. The AIFF’s technical committee, headed by  , will take a final decision in a meeting in Mumbai on Wednesday. However, sources close to the development said that the Englishman’s contract, which will expire at the end of March, will be extended till the   next year.

 “Constantine has given us the desired results over a period of time. So how can we remove him. Even if we decide to part ways and appoint a new manager, it will send a wrong signal. The new coach will not have any trust in us since we removed Constantine even after India’s decent performances. And if the new coach doesn’t have any faith in us, he cannot work freely. So Constantine will remain the coach,” a highly-placed AIFF official told TOI on Monday.
 
 Constantine’s future came up for discussion after a few senior players reportedly questioned his coaching methods. The players’ ‘objection’ was that they were not learning anything new under Constantine and the Indian team was struggling due to Constantine’s poor strategy when they played an opposition as good as them or ranked higher.
 
 The statistics, though, tell a completely different story. India have remained unbeaten in 13 matches, winning in 11 and drawing twice, and had last lost a match in March 2016 in a World Cup qualifier against Turkmenistan. The results propelled India’s FIFA rankings too. The team, which was languishing at 166 when Constantine took over in 2015, broke into the top-100 (96) last year and is currently the 102nd ranked team.
 
 With the AFC Asian Cup starting in UAE from January 5-February 1 next year, AIFF doesn’t want to take ‘unnecessary risks’ with a coach who has proven track record. However, the official also sounded cautious, saying that AIFF doesn’t want a repeat of the U-17 World Cup episode, where a player revolt saw the then coach Nicolai Adam being replaced by Luis Norton de Matos. “The Adam episode was undesirable and it only hampered our preparations. We are planning some exposure trips for the India team and we don’t want the team to suffer because we didn’t change the coach. So we will speak to the players before taking a final call. But then Constantine’s record is one of the best. Also there is no guarantee that the new coach will perform to expectations. If the new manager falters close to the AFC competition, we will only have ourselves to blame,” the official said.
 
 
