MUMBAI: Even as close to 46,000 students who appeared for Mumbai University’s   exams between November and January continue to wait for their  , the varsity called   assessment “a success” on Wednesday. 

 
 
  
 
 
 The university has decided to broadbase its online initiative by changing the answer sheet’s front page to include a student’s printed details and introduce e-attendance from the next semester.
 
 According to data shared by the university, results of 18 programmes conducted during the winter session last year are yet to be declared. A large majority of these students are from commerce and law courses. Out of the over 50,000 re-evaluation requests received, 14,557 are yet to be declared. 
 
 “We have been able to speed up the assessment process now and have resolved the problems that were causing delays in the assessment of law programmes. While most   will be declared over the next few days, laws results can be expected within 10 days,” said Arjun Ghatule, in-charge director (examinations). 
 
 The board of examination has allowed practising lawyers with a two-year teaching experience to assess papers as there was a shortage of examiners in the law faculty. Principals will be made accountable for all assessments from next exam.
 
 University officials said the online assessment system was now technically sound and work towards fulfilling pre-requisites for the process would be done in the next semester exam. Stickers with students’ details along with subject codes and possibly photographs will replace the existing front page of answer sheets. “The current system which requires a student to fill seat numbers in bubbles is not suitable for online assessment. In spite of physical verification of  , some mistakes in the circling continue to crop up. The new stickers will be used for winter 2018   and will have all student details, leaving no room for error.” 
 
 Attendance in exam hall will be registered online by the principal, giving the varsity instant data. “Once we know the statistics, we can plan the manpower and scanners required and set a timeline,” he added. For the ongoing exams, over 36,500 answer sheets have already been evaluated. “The system is now customized, refined and upgraded to deliver the expected results. Our priority will be to declare all the results within 45 days of the exam as required by law,” said Devanand Shinde, acting vice-chancellor,  . 
 
 
