HYDERABAD: Putting an end to the controversy surrounding the Rythu Bandhu scheme, chief minister   on Tuesday announced that distribution of cheques along with pattadar passbooks under the scheme will begin on May 10. The much-touted scheme, which was to be launched on April 19, will provide Rs 8,000 per acre to farmers towards investment support.

 The CM, who held a highlevel review meeting, directed officials to ensure that all the eligible farmers get the cheques in the villages. He also told them to ensure availability of enough cash reserves in banks so that the farmers can withdraw cash. While Rs 4,000 per acre would be given for kharif season, another Rs 4,000 will be given for rabi season. The first batch of cheques of Rs 4,000 per acre would be distributed for monsoon crop.
 
 
 For chalking out a detailed action plan for distributing 58 lakh passbooks and an equal number of cheques, it has been decided to hold a meeting with district collectors at   on April
 
 21. As per the plan, 58 lakh cheques would be distributed in a week covering 8.25 lakh cheques a day. In all, 2,762 teams will distribute the cheques and each team would give away 300 passbooks and cheques a day.
 
 In the first phase, 10,323 villages would be covered with 1,500 villages each day.
 
 The CM said collectors can decide as to on which day and in which particular village distribution of cheques can be taken up. While distributing the cheques, signature of the farmer is taken after handing over the passbook and cheque, the CM said and added in case a farmer is not available to receive the passbook or cheque, they will be kept at the mandal office for three months to be handed over to the farmer.
 
 The chief minister will kick off the programme on May 10, ministers, MLAs, MPs and MLCs will launch the scheme in their respective constituencies. A high-level team consisting of deputy CM, agriculture minister and other officials has been constituted to monitor the programme every day.
 
 Meanwhile, on eye testing camps, KCR said immediately after the distribution of   the government will take up the activity of organizing statewide eye camps. The necessary action plan for this is being worked out by the  , said CM.
 
 
