Arindam Sil, known as Jotno Sil in the industry, for his caring attitude towards his cast and crew, was the talk of the night! ‘Comfort comes first for Arindamda’s team and he makes sure that each one in his team is happy. What I want to learn from Arindamda is how to manage time — it is still a mystery as to how he manages so many things at once,’ said Abir, as he shared a joke with Parno and Srijit. ‘I would like to know why Arindam is so popular among the leading ladies of Tollywood,’ laughed Srijit.
 
  
 The gala party was hosted at a city five-star hotel on Monday evening to celebrate Arindam Sil’s 30 years in the industry. ‘I complete three decades in my world of passion today. At this juncture of my life, if I have the support and love of so many, I have reasons to believe that I’m blessed. Thirty years is a long time. But I feel young and energised to make more films. After all, with all the love and faith that my audience bestows on me, I have to give back more,” said Sil while posing with   and 
 Mahendra Soni.
  
  ‘Babul Told me, I am His Inspiration when it comes to Fitness. He’s turned into a fitness freak’, said  .
  
  ‘My relationship with June and Bickram is beyond professional realms. They have been with me through thick and thin. And June is my lucky charm! She has to be a part of all my projects. These days, I don’t even tell her about the role, I just let her know the schedule — such is the trust and bond between us,’ said Arindam. ‘Bickram and Jaya are more of family than colleagues. We are uninhibited in each other’s presence. Our friendship is pure,’ he added.
  
  ‘Arindam is a friend who also works with me on many initiatives that benefit society. His work, also his passion for 30 years, is an example to many. I’m happy to host this party and glad that all his friends came,’ said  , who was heard speaking to Harsh Neotia.
  
  ‘I worked with Arindamda in Ek Akasher Niche where I played his daughter, Pakhi. In Cholo Let’s Go, I essayed the role of his girlfriend. He’s a warm person. Not many know that it was Arindamda who made Ushadi act in Bondhu Tomay, a television series he produced,’ shared Konineeca.
  
  Be it his shoots or his parties, Arindam is rather 
 particular about the choice of food that is being served. We saw the man going berserk because he felt the ghugni and chicken phuluri, served as entrée, were not warm. From ghee bhat, shukto, dal, alu gobi, luchi, chhanar mohima to doi potol, dhaniya chicken, chutney, malpoa and ice cream — the menu had something for everyone! We saw celebs having a cheat day and digging into the scrumptious spread. 
 
  
