Mohali: Chief minister of   has given his consent to start the process of land acquisition to initiate the project of upgradation and widening of Landran T-junction in Mohali. The work on the project will be started in the next financial year, said Razia Sultana, PWD minister while chairing the high-level review meeting of the department on Friday. 

 She said the CM has also released Rs 23 crore for the project to ease out vehicular congestion at the crossing.
 
 The proposal includes widening of the existing road by another 50 feet on each side and construction of slip roads from Mohali, Banur and Kharar side. Landran T-point connects Mohali with Banur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Kharar as alternate route for the three destinations.
 
 According to the reports prepared by Mohali administration, over 5,000 vehicles cross at the Landran T-point on a daily basis. Sultana said the year 2018 would witness major infrastructural development in the state as the chief minister is personally keen to upgrade the link road network in the state.
 
 During the meeting, Sultana said the project for the strengthening of the link roads would also cover the link roads apart from those under Mandi Board. The project will be handled by  , said spokesperson of the PWD. 
 
 After being inquired by Sultana about the delay in the widening of major road projects, chief engineer A K Singla said all these projects have been halted because of the NGT ban on tree felling. He said that the development work on all the projects is underway where the forest clearance has been accorded. Sultana was apprised that there is no dearth of funding by state government but some of the central government funded projects are being delayed due to the delay in release of funds.
 
 While reviewing the progress on national highways, Sultana instructed to complete the work till December 31, 2018. She specially asked the chief engineer to ensure that all the signages along the roads must bear Punjabi language at the top.
 
 
