KOLKATA: After a long dry spell,   is finally trickling back into watering holes and off-shops in the city. The favourite summertime drink had vanished for several weeks, even as temperatures started rising steadily, thanks to a pricing dispute between the state government and liquor companies. 

 On Saturday, Chowringhee Stores on JL Nehru Road received its first consignment of beer in four weeks. On Friday, the lounge Bakstage in Salt Lake’s Sector V had a consignment after several weeks. But, even as weekend revellers might find reason to cheer, liquor companies said it will take a few more days for stocks to even out, as beer had completely disappeared from the market.
 
 But the good news is that the new consignments, with the revised pricing, have already started rolling out from the state’s three breweries. “We received a consignment of light beer on Friday. Our guests are happy to get back their favourite drink. We are expecting supplies of other brands soon,” said Sudhir Ahuja of Bakstage. In south Kolkata, Ballygunge Wine Stores received new stock of a particular brand on Saturday. “For the time, only this brand is available,” said a representative. At Chowringhee Store, there was a flurry of buyers as soon as news spread that the supply had resumed.
 
 In the third week of January, the   (Bevco) took control of the distribution of liquor in the city. The supply of beer dried up as the government increased the excise duty, causing a price increase by at least Rs 40 to Rs 60. The liquor companies were unwilling to increase the price, as they felt it would bring about a sharp dip in business. Because of the dispute, supplies reduced, and soon became almost non-existent.
 
 The resumption in supply has been met with effervescence by beer drinkers. “The weather is getting warmer, and this is the best time for beer, but it was not available. For the past few weeks, I was drinking other liquor, like whisky and rum, but it’s just not the same. I am happy that beer will be available again,” said Patuli resident Debjoy Das. For Arijit Roy, a resident of BB Ganguly Street, it couldn’t have come at a better time. “Weekends were not the same without beer. Our friends and I had started choosing our hangouts depending on whether beer was available there. It is good that beer is now back, and we can make up for its absence during the weekend,” he said. 
 
 The steep price hike, however, is a spot of bother. “The price has gone up by Rs 30 to Rs 40 at one go, which is going to hurt regular beer-drinkers. The government and liquor companies should work out something so that it doesn’t hurt consumers so much,” said Christopher Lobo, a Behala resident.
 
 
