NEW DELHI: After marching barefoot to Mumbai,   in the country are keeping up the pressure on the government writing out bills they want enacted as legislation claiming that the Centre failed in its duty to do so. 

 
 The initiative, led by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) and backed by MPs Raju Shetti and K K Ragesh, who plan to introduce the two bills in Lok Sabha and   as Private Members’ Bills, respectively will also see opposition parties join ranks over the issue of agrarian crises.
 
 The AIKSCC claimed that it interacted with over 190 farm organisations and travelled across the country to deliberate on the needs of the farm community. Through these discussions, they said they were able to identify two key demands of the farm community; freedom from indebtedness, and guaranteed remunerative minimum support prices for all crops. Seeking the enactment of the two demands through central legislation, the AIKSCC has sought the support of political parties to the cause of farmers. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, AIKSCC convenor   said, “The Modi government promised to implement these promises to the farmers. Four years on, there has been no progress. So, for the first time, farmers of the country have taken the initiative to make their own bills. Shetti and Rajesh will introduce the bills in the Lower and Upper Houses of Parliament.” 
 
 On March 28, AIKSCC will hold a round table to discuss the way forward for the two proposed legislations and has reached out to all political parties and pressure groups to participate in the movement and to support the farmers’ cause. 
 
 This will be the third in a series of farm movements that has united opposition forces against the   government. Earlier, after the Left-backed Kisan Long March in Maharashtra, opposition parties had also backed the All India Kisan Sabha’s initiative to pressure the Centre to withdraw the ban on cattle trade, and to put a stop to the rampant instances of mob lynching by alleged ‘gau rakshaks’. Singh added, “The Modi government has failed the farm community badly and we want all parties who support farmers to come together for this cause.”
 
