NAGPUR: The second day of ‘The Physical Universe’ international conference witnessed many new developments in the field of astronomy and astrophysics being talked about. Some scientists challenged certain old theories including even the theory of relativity given by Einstein.

 The conference saw a lot of discussions on various subjects related to the universe and its formation as various scientists came up with newer theories and subjects in the field of astronomy and astrophysics.
 
 Delivering a talk titled ‘gravitational waves from mini-creations events’, Jayant Narlikar, renowned astrophysicist from the   and Astrophysics (IUCAA) explained his quasi steady state theory of formation of universe as against the Big Bang theory. The theory claims the universe was formed through many mini bangs. It says the density of matter in the expanding universe remains unchanged. He said that mini creations were alternative source of radiations.
 
 Sanjay Wagh, the director of   (CIRI), said Einstein’s theory of relativity could be challenged in various ways. He pointed out the theory of relativity contradicted experiments. He had proposed a new theory called ‘Universal theory of relativity four years back against Einstein’s theory. He said his theory was based on ‘mathematics of category theory’.
 
 Samir Mathur from physics department Ohio State University gave a talk titled ‘What does the information paradox tell us about cosmology’ and gave a solution for it.
 
 CS Unnikrishnan from the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) delivered a talk titled ‘Experimental evidence for a new basis for relativity and dynamics’.
 
 Narlikar and Wagh’s talks were chaired by former IUCAA director Ajit Kembhavi. While   chaired the talk of Mathur and Zbigniew Oziewicz from Mexico. Pradeep Muktibodh chaired the third session of Unnikrishnan.
 
 The four-day conference is being attended by over 60 senior scientists across the globe. Martin Bucher from France and Yuto Minami from Japan, Devin Crichton from South Africa and Martin Krause from UK will give talks on the third day. A science day lecture will be delivered by Prof Ludwig Streit from Germany.
 
 
