AGRA: A day after a seven-year-old boy was accidentally killed in a UP Police “encounter” in Mathura’s Mohanpur Aduki village, four cops were on Thursday suspended as the deceased’s postmortem report confirmed that he died from a bullet fired by police. While one of the cops has been accused of firing, the other three have been accused of abandoning the critically-injured child on the road. Meanwhile, the state government has ordered a magisterial inquiry into the incident. 

 Inspector general of police (Agra zone), Raja Srivastava, who visited the family of Madhav Bhardwaj, told TOI on Thursday that preliminary inquiry suggests that   died after being hit by a police bullet in his head. “The size of the entry and exit wounds shows that the bullet was fired from a small weapon,” Srivastava said. 
 
 While promising a fair probe into the matter, the   said that the bullet which killed the schoolboy has not been recovered. “We will deploy a special squad to trace the bullet and will get it tested. Sub-inspector   has been suspended for opening fire, while sub-inspector Saurabh Sharma and constables Udham Singh and   have been placed under suspension for negligence as they reportedly left the injured child on the road instead of immediately rushing him to a hospital,” he said.
 
 Srivastava said that the postmortem report says that the boy died due to “haemorrhage and shock” from a “firearm injury”. Meanwhile, UP principal secretary (home) Arvind Kumar confirmed that a magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the incident and a compensation of Rs 5 lakh from the CM relief fund will be given to the minor’s family by the Mathura district magistrate.
 
 A case under IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) has also been registered at the Highway police station, from where the team of cops raided the village on Wednesday evening. Mathura SSP Swapnil Mangain said the police party had gone to the village around 4.30 pm on the information that two suspects involved in a case of loot were hiding there. “When one of suspects tried to escape, SI Yadav fired at him and the bullet accidentally hit the child,” the SSP said. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Madhav’s father Amarnath, a security guard by profession, said, “They first shot him and then left him in the middle of the road to die. One of the cops did put my son into his vehicle and yelled that he was going to the hospital, but the villager who accompanied him has said that he was asked to step out of the vehicle with the injured child a few minutes later. No amount of monetary help can compensate our loss.”
 
