BELAGAVI: A doctor who has a fetish for burning high-end cars, was caught red-handed on Wednesday night, setting ablaze a car parked beneath an apartment. 

  Dr Ameet Gaikwad, 37, assistant professor of pathology at the   (BIMS), is reportedly mentally disturbed, and had burnt seven cars early Wednesday morning in Jadhav Nagar, and three cars in Ganeshpur area in the evening. 
 
  It was while he was making another attempt at Vivenka apartment in Visvesvaraya Nagar around 9.30pm that he was caught by an alert security guard, Ganganagouda Patil. He had placed camphor on one car and was about to torch it, when Patil screamed at him. Gaikwad tried to escape but Patil caught him and handed him to the police.The mysterious car burning spree had left police stumped. Among the 10 cars he torched in Belagavi on Wednesday were two BMWs, a  , a Verna and Innovas. 
 
  Police said Gaikwad would walk into the parking areas of houses and apartments and confirm that no one was around. He would then place a handful of camphor pieces on the car bonnet, in the air vents under the wipers, then torch the camphor with a lighter, and walk out silently. Police seized petrol/diesel cans, cloth balls, spirit, five cellphones, a lighter, scissors, two knives, a hammer, engine oil from his room, besides a car and a motorbike. 
 
  Gaikwad, originally from Kalaburagi, is suspected to have committed similar cases of arson in Kalaburagi on the nights of January 14 and 15, with 15 cars being burnt in various colonies of the city. Of these, 13 cars belonged to doctors. People in Kalaburagi were shocked by the mindless torching, and were upset with police for failing to get even a clue to the miscreants. Gaikwad had recently been removed from his post due to his behaviour. According to APMC police station inspector Zakeer Kalimirchi, the accused would use the camphor technique to target and destroy the engine. The flaming camphor would drop into the engine through the air vents and burn the wires, and within a few minutes, the engine would turn to scrap. He did not use petrol or kerosene to set the vehicle ablaze. 
 
  However, Gaikwad denied the allegations and said he had gone to an apartment block to meet one of his colleagues. He alleged it was a conspiracy by six technicians working with him to defame him. "I don't have any connection to the cases police mentioned," he said, but had no answer to why he had a big box full of camphor. Dr Gaikwad completed his MBBS degree in Kalaburagi and MD in pathology at KIMS, Hubballi. In 2014, he married a doctor based in Hyderabad, but she reportedly left him in six months. 
 
  DCP (law and order) Seema Latkar said there are no doubts that Gaikwad was the culprit as he had been caught in the act on CCTV cameras. 
 
  According to police, his relationship with colleagues at the blood bank in BIMS, where he was working, was not good. Most of the technicians isolated Dr Ameet due to his behaviour. Five Group 'D' technicians had registered a complaint of torture against him.He had been warned and sent on m onth-long leave as punishment. However, BIMS superintendent   said he was not aware of Dr Ameet's personal or behavioural issues. 
 
 Dr  , father of the accused, claimed his son is innocent.
 
 Guard recounts
 
 Ganganagouda Patil, the guard who caught Gaikwad, said he came on a motorbike, wearing a monkey cap and holding a helmet in his hand. Seeing him by a car, Patil questioned him. Gaikwad first mentioned the name of an apartment resident but changed it when Patil started asking more questions. When Patil asked him why he was carrying camphor, Gaikwad started giving confusing answers. Patil checked his jacket and found a large camphor box and a lighter. “I called APMC police immediately to check the case,” he stated.
 
 
