CHENNAI: The ruling   on Friday stepped up its rhetoric against the BJP in the wake of public ire over the Centre’s failure to comply with the Supreme Court’s   verdict and the ongoing protests against the contentious neutrino laboratory in the Western Ghats.

 “There is no space for saffron in the state. The state can only be governed by red, white and black colour (of the Dravidian majors). This is the land of (DMK founder) Annadurai, Puratchi Thalaivar (MG Ramachandran) and Amma (former chief minister J Jayalalithaa). Others have no work here… There is nothing to be anxious about,” said fisheries minister  . The statement comes against the backdrop of opposition charge that BJP was attempting to ‘saffronise’ the state.
 
 Adding to the government’s embarrassment was governor Banwarilal Purohit’s appointment of M S Surappa, a native of Karnataka, as Anna University vicechancellor, evoking strong criticism from opposition parties, coming as it does in the midst of the Cauvery row. Jayakumar stoutly denied the role of state in the appointment, though the search committees comprised nominees of state, senate and that of the governor.
 
 The recent appointments of VCs to Dr Ambedkar Law University and TN Music and Fine Arts University too have come in for sharp criticism. While the governor is well within his rights to select the candidate, the practice of “amicable choice” of the past” was given a go-by by Raj Bhavan, say critics. The party is already facing flak from the opposition over the governor visiting districts to hold review meetings with bureaucrats. AIADMK propaganda wing deputy secretary Vaigai Selvan said the opposition charge that the   government was a “benami of the BJP” was a result of frustration. “BJP got lesser votes than even NOTA in RK Nagar bypoll. How can they hope to gain a foothold in the state?”
 
 In the national capital, AIADMK’s continued disruption of Parliament proceedings for constitution of Cauvery Management Board was termed by the opposition as attempts to help the Modi government avoid the embarrassment of a no-confidence motion. The budget session will go into Parliament records as a complete washout due to disruptions by AIADMK members. The leaders said they were compelled to protest to bring the Cauvery issue under spotlight. In a 30-minute meeting with Purohit on Wednesday, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam said the “ protests were against Centre’s failure on the Cauvery issue.” They, however, surprised partymen by participating in the hunger strike against the Centre.
 
