ON BOARD AI 0546: After some hard partying well into the wee hours of Wednesday and daylong classes on the interplay of neuropsychology and leadership at Indian School of Business, Hyderabad, all I had in mind was sleep.

 My home in Chennai was a little more than an hour from   where   AI 0546 was ready to be pushed out of the apron at 10.30pm. Then, surprisingly, nothing happened. About 10 minutes later, the speakers crackled to life. A tired-sounding pilot announced the bad news: A flight had just had a tyre burst on landing at the only functional runway at this hour; our departure would be delayed by 90 minutes.
 
 The hapless cabin crew must have thought the best way to the passengers’ heart was through the stomach, so they served lousy sandwiches and packaged juice. After a few minutes of loud sighs and lamentations, passengers were furiously playing Temple Run and Angry Birds on their mobile phones and tablets. More than 30 minutes later, as the A321’s airconditioning struggled to keep the capacity crowd of 172 passengers comfortable, the crew allowed a few passengers (whose protests were now loud) out on the aerobridge to stretch their legs.
 
 The cabin supervisor was enterprising enough to show me, at a distance, flickering lights of vehicles surrounding the   that lost its tyre. Some passengers were by now even cracking jokes with the supervisor. By midnight, when there was no more announcement on the probable time of departure, the supervisor’s new found friends were virtually holding him by the scruff of the neck. A woman wanted to charge her phone. Another wanted a business class upgrade, but those seats were all taken. Two senior citizens walked up and down the aisle, telling whoever was willing to listen, the joy of train journeys. Fortunately, there were no wailing children.
 
 Around 1.30am, all hell broke loose. A few women joined the men on the aerobridge, confronting the AI duty manager who appeared keen to jump off the bridge. The airline’s managers blinked at each other as tempers rose. From the aerobridge, I saw the only person at peace with himself: the flight’s captain was snoring away in the cockpit. 
 
 After contributing my mite to a joint effort at getting answers from the clueless bunch or airline employees, around 2.30am, I took a cue from the commander and decided to sleep. It was humid in the cabin, but I realised neuropsychology was right when on biological shutdowns after two nights of good drinks and bad sleep.
 
 At 3.40am, the speakers came to life again, this time telling us that the flight was ready to take off. A co-passenger told me that the pilot, who had taken more than 40 winks, and the copilot had overshot their 24-hour flying time and hence replaced. The new captain’s voice wasn’t more energetic than the first one’s, but his words were clear: “Cabin crew report at stations for take-off.”
 
 We took off at 3.48am and landed in Chennai at 4.40am. Now, please let me sleep.
 
 
