CHENNAI: For the past five decades, the only constant in M A Sankaralingam’s life has been his canvas. And after years of learning, mastering and experimenting with portraiture — among several other conventional fine art forms — the   employee is convinced he’s nailed it all. 

  is more than happy to demonstrate this rather brazen conviction in his own aesthetic. For one, he has utilised the otherwise begrimed walls of his archaic, wood-floored office to pin up high resolution prints of some of his favourite works. These include portraits copied from photographs, portraits conjured up in his mind,   landscapes and perhaps his most prized creation — illusionary art. For 34 years, Sankaralingam has been creating paintings for railways’ calendars, brochures and safety posters. A little of that time was spent getting a double degree at the Government College of Fine Arts. By the time he retires in September this year, he would have exhibited in more than 28 exhibitions around Chennai and created more than 100 works of art in various styles.
 
 What the 60-year-old also stumps you with is his memory. "Before I went to school, I remember seeing kids in uniforms scribbling stick figures and would be taken over by this overbearing urge to draw endlessly," he says.
 
 Inspiring his formative years were ornate illustrations from ‘Ponniyin Selvan’, ‘Parthiban Kanavu’ and Sandilyan’s novels, which appeared in Tamil weeklies. 
 
 "Today, there is little value for artists who can reproduce what they see with precision. Popular galleries are hungry for abstract art, but landscapes and portraiture require you to measure with your eyes and recreate what you see. I believe this is a fundamental of fine art that cannot be overlooked," he says.
 
 Growing up, his desire to become a full-time   received little encouragement from his father. 
 
 "Neither was there the kind of scope for art that is there today. My life post retirement will have only art and everything associated with it. I will do portraits for institutions and galleries and definitely exhibit and sell more," says Sankaralingam.
 
 
