MUMBAI: Even as the state health insurance scheme is being upgraded in tune with the Centre’s soon-to-be-launched Ayushman Bharat’s Rs 5-lakh-per-family plan, a local hospital found overcharging 20 poor patients who availed of the state scheme has been suspended from the scheme by the newly appointed CEO. 

 Dr  , who took over the state Mahatama Jyotiba Phule Arogya Yojana a fortnight back, visited the 100-bed   in Byculla on May 19 posing as a patient and found that six patients were asked to pay extra money. “They were all registered as Mahatma Jyotiba Phule scheme patients, but each said they had to pay extra money,” he said. 
 
 
  
 The state scheme entitles almost 2 crore needy families to free treatment of up to Rs 1.5 lakh a year. “The scheme is so detailed that it provides money for tests, food and even transport from hospital. There is no need to charge the patient extra,” said Dr Shinde. When the yojana’s officials went through files of Balaji Hospital, it was found that another 14 had been overcharged between Rs 17,000 and 20,000. “The beneficiaries are from ‘below poverty line’ or families whose annual income is less than Rs 1 lakh. 
 
 These aren’t people who can afford such money,” he said. The hospital’s CEO   said there had been no overcharging. “These patients had possibly completed their Rs 1.5 lakh cover,” he said, adding that he would reply to the notice sent by the state government. CEO Dr Shinde said he will hold surprise checks on hospitals empanelled under the scheme. “The main task is to educate beneficiaries about the scheme so they don’t get cheated like this,” he said. Soon, every patient who registers for an operation under the scheme will get calls highlighting the scheme details. Meanwhile, work on integrating the state and   insurance plan s are being worked out. 
 
 “Ayushman Bharat scheme will have 10 crore beneficiaries of whom 84 lakhare in Maharashtra,’’ said Dr Shinde. The administration is verifying details of these families. “Beneficiaries in rural parts have been verified, and work is on in urban areas,” said the doctor, adding that both schemes will be co-branded. However, finer details are being worked out. While the state scheme offers health cover of up to Rs 1.5 lakh a family, the Centre plans to offer a Rs 5-lakh cover.
