COIMBATORE: Thirty-three temple elephants from   and   would participate in a 48-day rejuvenation camp at   in Mettupalayam from Thursday. 

 Elephants from major temples across the state would be brought to the camp, said an official from Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department. “Elephants from Tiruvannamalai, Sri Rangam, Madurai, Rameswaram and Srivilliputhur temples would be brought to the camp,” the official said. Besides, the elephants of   temple, Thirunallar, Karaikal and   temple, Puducherry, would be present. 
 
 The camp, to be inaugurated by HR&CE minister Sevvoor S Ramachandran around 9.30am, would be held on the banks of   near   temple at Thekkampatti. 
 
 The official said the precautionary and safety measures were improved compared to last year. “We have erected solar-powered electric fencing. We have also installed high-mast lights in the area where the elephants would be kept and taken steps to keep away wild elephants from straying into the area,” the official said. Another official said they have put up three-level security fencing. “This year, we have enlarged the treatment spaces for elephants too,” the official added.
 
 Officials said three veterinary doctors would be present round the clock in the camp. “The elephants would undergo complete medical check-up and would be treated for diseases,” an official said. 
 
 The elephants would be taken for 10 rounds of walk twice a day. “They like the drill as they don’t get to do it in temples,” said the official.
 
 The veterinary doctors would prescribe nutritious food like palm shoots, coconut shoots, bamboo and corn stalks. “We add medicines in the cooked food,” the official added. 
 
 Meanwhile, farmers from neighbouring villages on Wednesday protested in front of the camp site against conducting the rejuvenation camp in the area. “The camp would attract wild elephants to the area and jeopardise our safety,” they said. 
 
 This is the 10th rejuvenation camp for the temple elephants in the state since its inception in November 2003 by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa. The camp was stopped from 2006 to 2011 and was resumed in 2011 when the AIADMK came back to power. Initially, the camp was held at   in the Nilgiris and in 2013 it was shifted to Thekkampatti.
 
 
