HYDERABAD: Sending a clear message that the actions of legislative authorities too will come under the scanner of the judiciary if allegations of arbitrariness are levelled against their actions, Justice B   of the Hyderabad High Court on Monday directed the   to not notify elections to Alampur and Nalgonda assembly constituencies in   for six weeks.

 Congress MLAs Komatireddy   and S A  , who represent Nalgonda and Alampur respectively, were expelled from the assembly following violent incidents in the   on March 12.
 
 
 The judge also summoned the video footage pertaining to the alleged violent actions of Venkat Reddy and Sampath that are said to have injured the right eye of council chairman G Swamy Goud and led to the expulsion of the two members.
 
 Cong MLAs expulsion: HC seeks video clips in 3 days
 
 The video footage should reach the court by March 22, the judge told Telangana assembly secretary.   law secretary, legislative assembly secretary and the Election Commission have also been asked to file their counters within one week.
 
 The judge made this interim order while hearing a petition filed by the two Congress MLAs, who have challenged their expulsion on the ground of arbitrary usage of power without giving them any opportunity to explain their case.
 
 Refuting the allegations of the ‘unruly’ legislators, which he said ‘lowered’ the dignity of the House, Telangana advocate general D   justified the action of the house saying they deserved to be expelled.
 
 “As is being canvassed by the petitioners, it is not the decision of the speaker. It is, in fact, the collective decision of the house, which passed a unanimous resolution to this effect,” the AG said.
 
 “The same was notified and the legislative secretariat declared these two seats as vacant and even informed the EC about the vacancies that arose on account of the expulsions. It is not correct to say that the house has no power to expel them,” the advocate general said.
 
 The crux of the issue revolves around the alleged throwing of headphone by Komatireddy Venkat Reddy towards the governor, which hit the legislative council chairman’s eye. Describing this as an after-thought to fix them, the expelled members urged the court to summon the video footage of the alleged incident and raised serious doubts about the veracity of the injury claims.
 
 The   clarified that “the issue here is not about the gravity of the injury. It is about the unruly behaviour of the two members”. The AG also pointed out that the legislators have not expressed a sense of remorse for their unruly behaviour.
 
 Responding to the allegations that the expelled members were not given notice before acting against them, the AG said that principles of natural justice can be followed in cases where a member’s unruly behaviour outside the house has lowered the prestige of the house.
 
 “But this is an incident that took place in front of everyone in the house. Here, the house can instantly resolve to take action,” he said. The case has been posted to March 27.
 
