KANYAKUMARI: Colachel marine police on Wednesday registered a case against the unidentified ship that had sunk a mechanised boat around 23 nautical miles off Kanyakumari shore at 6.15am on Tuesday. The accident claimed the life of a fisherman, left another missing and six others battling for their lives.

 Six surviving fishermen, who were rescued by a passing ship a couple of hours after the accident, were brought to Chinna Muttom Harbour close to midnight on Tuesday, along with the body of the  , 50, of Eraniel Valasai in   district. The case was registered based on a complaint filed by the fishermen.
 
 The unidentified ship was booked under sections 280 (rash navigation of vessel), 304(A) (causing death due to negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code. "We have sent two letters to the   to help trace the unidentified ship," said sub inspector of Colachel marine police M John Kingsley. 
 
 Meanwhile, Coast Guard ship   has launched a search for M Michael Justin, 17, of Tharuvaikulam in Tuticorin district, who went missing. The owner of the boat, M  , 27, of Tharuvaikulam in Tuticorin said that the victim Murugesan did not know how to swim.
 
 "After the ship hit the boat three other fishermen rescued Murugesan and were carrying him on their shoulder for close to an hour till another ship rescued them. He was alive even when they got him into the ship, but died a few hours later," Nicholas said. The six rescued fishermen had suffered minor injuries and are being treated at the Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital.
 
 According to marine police, preliminary inquiry with fishermen revealed that Murugesan was already dead when the doctors checked him in the rescued ship at 11.30am. "He could have died due to injuries he suffered during the accident," a police officer added. 
 
  This is the third incident of ships ramming fishing boats and going missing since October last year.
 
 "Despite all the technological advancements that would make identifying such ships easy, it is sad that the fishermen are not getting justice," said Justin Antony, president of International Fishermen Development Trust. He said the ship that sunk the boat of X Antony from Chinnathurai, Kanyakumari district, 45 nautical miles off Beypore in Kozhikode, Kerala, is yet to be identified. He said that Antony got killed while and two of his fellow fishermen were rescued. Three others including Antony's father-in-law Remmyas of Chinnathurai and   and Prince from   could not be traced and are still missing. 
 
 
