The tenth annual   festival of   in Greater Noida saw   colleges presenting a number of street plays as well as stage plays on various topics. Be it  ,  , corruption in society, issues like mob violence – the plays staged at the fest touched on several serious topics and was a treat for theatre buffs. H Chaturvedi, director of the college, said, "We organize theatre fests every year to encourage students to explore their creative and artistic side. It is wonderful to see young people discuss issues like nationalism, secularism, among others." Eminent theatre personalities like Subodh Lal, Tejender Tj, Hadi Sarmadi, among others, attended the event.

  
  Students from Majlis, the debating and dramatics society of Hansraj Colloge, staged the play, Life of Clowns, which revolved around what clowns go through for their survival
 
 
 
 
 Drug addiction destroys many a lives and students of Motilal Nehru College presented a street play about this menace and the serious consequences it has had in people’s lives. The play also emphasised on the easy availability of drugs in our country, which in turn leads to youngsters developing an addiction. Girls from Lakshmibai College staged a play, Emergency, which touched on topics like mob-lynching, religious riots, sedition and defamation – the socio-political issues confronting the country.
 
  
  Navrangg, the dramatics society of Lakshmi Bai College, staged the play, Emergency, which touched on topics like mob-lynching
 
 
 
 
 The theatre society of Lady Irwin College, Mukhauta, presented the play, Sarvmangal, which highlighted issues faced by homosexual people in society at large and at their homes in particular. The play depicts how the society and families treat homosexuality and how many refuses to acknowledge the issue altogether and live in denial. Talking about the theme, Manisha Dixit, head of Musicology department of Trinity College, London, who was at the event, said, "The stigma associated with homosexuality is something that no one talks about in our society. The students have come up with a beautiful play which highlights this important issue."
 
  
  The students of theatre group Aadhar from Motilal Nehru College highlighted the social evil, drug addiction 
 
 
  
  Theatre group Mukhauta from Lady Irwin College staged Sarvmangal, a play based on homosexuality and the taboo surrounding it
 
 
  
  Sri Venkateswara College's society Anubhuti staged a thriller, Eighth Octave, where the identity of the murderer remains a mystery till the very end
 
  
  
 -- Richa.Sharma1@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
  
 
