KOCHI: As the city strains to expand its green canopy by planting new saplings along the sides of the road and public land, the existing urban forestry faces a threat from parasite plants.

 Loranthus is the most commonlyseen parasite growing on tree branches and later it spread to trunks when it is not removed on time and tree dries up. Environmentalists say the lack of care, ignorant people and climate change aid the growth of parasite in urban area and wreak havoc on decades-old trees.
 
 “The flowering time for loranthus is summer. Since climate has changed and summers are longer in  , it has become conducive for the parasite plant to propagate easily. It spreads when birds clean its beak on another tree or branch after eating the berry of the plant. The seed which is tacky gets stuck there and germinate,” said  , associate professor, department of botany,  .
 
 The root of this plant penetrates the tissues of the host and absorbs nutrients and water. “Nowadays people don’t give much attention to protecting trees. This takes toll on urban forestry. All parasite plants are not dangerous for trees, but loranthus, cassytha and cuscuta which spread fast are a threat to urban forestry,’ he said.
 
 Softwood trees including mango and guava trees are prime targets. Environmentalists said that cutting an affected branch is the best way to save the tree. Removing the parasite plant from the tree will not solve the issue as even the speck of a root will cause it to grow again.
 
 A decades-old mango tree in the compound of   palace is about to die now because loranthus is growing on it. Nowadays workers who climb trees are not available for pruning jobs that stops the growth of such parasite plants,” said environmentalist Prof S Seetharaman.
 
 Meanwhile social forestry wing does not have a project to resolve this issue. “When these parasites grow, the photosynthesis process is reduced to 60-70%. Thereby its productivity and life cycle is reduced. If we remove the parasite from the branch of a trunk, one can apply   mixture or any other systematic fungicides to save the tree. But it is expensive. As of now, social forestry does not have any project to remove the parasite plants from trees. We will consider a project next year,” said Anaz M A, assistant conservator of forests of social forestry in Ernakulam.
 
