The latest episode of   starts with Avni stumbling upon a threatening letter in which an unidentified person has threatened to kill her and the children. Samrat plays the DVD in which they see a goon apologizing to some woman. Avni wonders if Dayaben is alive. Avni makes Samrat promise that he wouldn't talk about the letter to anyone. She chooses to speak to Mithali about this as she is the only one who can guard them in a situation like this.

 The scene shifts, Shweta tells Neil that she likes Mitali and suggests that he should marry her. He is outraged at the suggestion as he can't love anyone else but Avni.
 
 Neil takes the diary, which belongs to Nilanjana, with him to the shower. He is spying on her as he feels that by doing so he might be able to help her.
 
 Next, Avni tells Mitali about the letter and shares that she can't even hire a lawyer. The latter tells her not to worry.
 
 Neil reads the diary and finds out that this   has dedicated her life to the kids and doesn't want to look back at the life that she has left behind. He wonders what she is running away from.
 
 Shweta asks KK about the reason for Neil's newfound happiness. He tells her that there were a lot of girls around him except for Nilanjana. He speaks about the latter at length. Shweta asks DD to find out more about Nilanjana and her husband.
 
 Avni says that they can't hold KK's shooting at their place. Saisha gushes about KK and his family background. She asks Avni if she can see the record book as she wants to see her parents' book. When the latter dismisses the question and tries to deflect her attention, the former insists to learn about her parentage.
 
 KK gifts Saisha a chain and asks for her autograph on his hand. When she writes her first name he asks for her full name. On his insistence, she writes the name 'Khanna'. He wishes her a happy birthday and hugs her.
 
 Neil calls Mowgli and asks him to fulfill his promise of making him meet Nilanjana. Mowgli invites him home and tells him that since Samrat is not present, he can arrange a meeting with her.
 
 
