HYDERABAD: Before Nov 6, 2017,   opposition leader Y S   was searched online mostly for corruption and his palatial house in Bengaluru, but his padayatra through AP seems to have changed the scenario. According to   Trends,   is now searched mostly for the padayatra, which he launched from his father YS Rajashekara Reddy's tomb in Idupulapaya in Kadapa. 

 Of the 25 most asked queries in the Google Trends 'Rising' searches regarding Jagan, 22 are related to the 'Praja Sankalpa Yatra', three are on his role in the Paradise Papers scam and the rest about his daughters and his association with political strategist Prashant Kishor. Interestingly, in the past 12 months, more people searched for Jagan than AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu.
 
 However, as a political party, Telugu Desam is the most searched, followed closely by   and the YSR  . The TDP is also alleging that Jagan's party has artificially boosted his online presence even as the padayatra has no impact on the ground.
 
  
  
 
 "Social media is manipulated to a large extent since the 2014 elections. On search engines too, certain search terms can be boosted through search optimisation techniques. Since Jagan hired Prashant Kishor, his social media presence is up. But at the ground level, we don't see any effect due to padayatra," TDP MP K Ram Mohan Naidu told TOI.
 
 Sources close to Prashant Kishor told TOI: "The padayatra was Jaganmohan Reddy's idea. We are supporting it on the ground on the route map, speech points and publicity in collaboration with the party. Our teams could identify how people are sympathising for Jagan for the painstaking effort he is taking during padayatra." Incidentally, the padayatra reached the 67th day on Sunday and reached the 900km mark in Srikalahasti constituency in Chittoor district. Party members said Jagan has been diagnosed with fever.
 
  spokesperson   said, "YSR Congress does not need to boost online activity artificially. There is a good response to the padayatra. We are not saying that the padayatra alone will take us to power."
 
 Interestingly, Pawan Kalyan has pipped both Jagan and Naidu in Google searches. But people seem to be searching more about his films than his political activity. Google Trend Rising queries reveal that people search about Naidu's new house, his age and phone number, while for Pawan it's about films such as Agnyatavasi and Katamarayudu. The controversy regarding the spat between Pawan's fans and film critic Kathi Mahesh is also piquing interest of netizens. As a party, 'Janasena Membership' was the most searched in AP.
 
 
