Nagpur: A 26-year-old man, identified as Chikati Kiran Venkanna, was nabbed with 1kg ganja from S-5 coach of Chennai-Katra Andaman Express after the train chugged into platform number one of Nagpur railway station on Monday. The Crime Intelligence Bureau (CIB) of Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Central Railway effected the seizure worth Rs1 lakh. Kiran, who had boarded the train from Mehbubabad, was supposed to get off at Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, where he had to deliver the consignment. The well-dressed Kiran, appearing more like a college student, had initially left the RPF’s CIB squad flummoxed. It was only due to the description of his attire and look revealed by an informer that finally Kiran was arrested by the CIB team. Senior Divisional Security Commissioner, RPF, Central Railway, said the constant action against drug traffickers has compelled them to change their modus operandi, and also getup to dodge the security forces. “The traffickers earlier used women and children to make them appear as a travelling family. The attire of the women and children would be shabby. They would be found mostly travelling in general coaches, ferrying the consignments in sacks,” he said. Satija said that after busting a few rackets using women and children, the traffickers had started using younger women and men travelling in reserved coaches, who would use costly bags and purses to ferry liquor or contraband. “We have developed widespread intelligence network, which brings us specific inputs. Contraband is something which can be intercepted only when there is a cultivated input, like the latest catch we had in the Andaman Express,” he said. Satija added that he has also started sharing inputs and coordinating with adjoining divisions like Secunderabad and Warangal, where such actions too have been initiated following information received by his unit. “RPF is also focusing on getting the traffickers nabbed at the boarding station itself, instead of allowing them to travel so far. Accordingly, different divisions are working in coordinations,” he said. The CIB team of PI BD Ippar comprising head constables Vijay Patil, DD Wankhede, constables Neelkanth Gore and Kishor Chaudhuri had a specific input about Kiran’s appearance, and also that he was ferrying the narcotics consignment in a brown trolley bag kept under his seat. Kiran was later handed over to Government Railway Police.