NAGPUR: After over a decade of love marriage, differences cropped up between a couple and the wife left matrimonial home taking a vow never to return. For over a year, the woman was absconding and never tried to contact either the husband or their 12 years old son. After failing to trace her, the husband filed a case for divorce with the family court here.

 After summons was issued, the woman reported back. Their case was referred to   conducted on Saturday, where initially they were reluctant to stay together. A drama unfolded with both accusing each other of excesses and abuses. But after a lot of convincing by the panel judges, the couple agreed to reunite. A ‘certificate of appreciation’ was presented to them for their decision to save the marriage.
 
 This was one of the cases which was successfully disposed of at the   held on the premises of family court. The event met with a stupendous success by uniting about 24 such   while last year, it had managed to bring together 116 couples, who had filed separation cases.
 
 The event was organized for five times last year under the guidance of principal judge IM Bohari, where 216 cases were for divorce while 323 were of child custody, maintenance, recovery and others. Besides, successfully reuniting 116 families, the event also settled 169 other cases, thus reducing the huge pendency to a big extent.
 
 The first couple, which was reunited was felicitated with gifts and certificate by Bohari and other judges, including Subhash Kafre, Prashant Agnihotri and Palak Jamadar and MR Manthanwar (retired). They were accompanied by registrar Sunil Katekar, manager   and other court officials, including senior counsellor  .
 
 “We convinced the couples of taking advantage of Lok Adalat to sort out their differences and settle them amicably. We tell them to save their precious time and money by using this unique platform. For every case coming to us, we always try to save the marriage through counsellors and mediators. We make efforts to reunite the couples for the sake of their kids and family. But if they want to end the marriage, we convince them to do it amicably, through Lok Adalat,” Bohari said.
 
 Offering the ‘certificate of appreciation’ to couples, who initially filed divorce case, but reunited after counselling and mediation sessions, is one of its kind initiative of the Nagpur Family Court which was conceptualized by the principal judge Bohari. Besides the principal judge, it bears signatures of panel judge, marriage counsellor, a lawyer and social worker or mediator working with the Mediation Centre. The novel concept was launched in 2016 and was appreciated by the couples.
 
 
