Veteran actor   rarely does interviews, though at 82 his passion for cinema still burns bright. In a freewheeling chat with BT, the actor reminisced about the past, spoke with zeal about his grandson’s debut and shared his thoughts on stars and superstardom. Excerpts…

 
 
 
 
 
 
 When I launched Sunny, I had put in a lot of effort. Similarly, for my grandson Karan, I can only pray for his success. I have learnt a lot being a part of this industry. Main apne grandson ke liye ek zariya ban sakta hoon… duayen de sakta hoon. Lekin main muqaddar nahin likh sakta. After I became an actor, my mother used to tell me that I hope nobody’s son becomes an actor. According to her, actors live and die with every film. They constantly live under the pressure of whether it will work at the box office. It is a profession where people have to struggle a lot.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I was a big fan of Suraiya. I have seen her films with actor Shyam (40s film actor, close friend of writer Saadat Haasan Manto) who was also a very good looking man. I was inspired by their films and the music of Naushad saab. When Suraiya came to know that I was a fan, she recited some of her songs on the phone for me. That’s how she reciprocated the love I had for her. I went to pay my respects when she died with what we call kandha dena. I can’t forget these people because I used to stand in a line to watch their films. In those days when the first bell would to ring in a theatre, I would know that the news was being read. And, the second ring would signal the beginning of the film. I used to be apprehensive whether I will be able to reach the ticket window before the second bell rang. The anticipation would eventually lead to happiness when I would get the ticket in my hands. I had a passion for movies. I never knew what cinema was all about till I was in the 7th standard. The boys in my class would to talk about it and that piqued my curiosity. They would say, ‘Tasveeren bolti hain.’ My father was a school teacher and we were not allowed to watch films. When I ventured out to do my matriculation, that’s when I got the freedom to find out all about the movies on my own. The first film I saw was Dilip Kumar’s Shaheed (1948). I was so impressed by him. Yeh haseen aur jameel shahzade aur yeh khubsoorat apsarayen… yeh kya hain? I had tears in my eyes when I saw him die in the film. This was a time immediately after partition and he was playing the role of a martyr.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Before I came here, I thought the film industry was heaven on earth. I would think that all the actors, filmmakers and technicians would get together and enjoy themselves just like a family. It is a like a family, but I also saw other aspects of the industry during the course of my journey. The perception about the industry is such that everybody is very close to each other, but it’s not like that. This is a cut-throat profession. The atmosphere in the industry wasn’t the way I had imagined it to be.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All the Bengali directors I worked with were instrumental in doing that. They helped me deliver my best performances. They would give me a simple path to walk on. Woh naap tolke filmein banate the. The way they would flesh out the characters was commendable. It is often said that I wanted to play the role of Thakur and Gabbar in Sholay (1975). But that’s not true, why would I play those roles when I had the opportunity to play a romantic character in the film.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I didn’t have any dreams of becoming a star. All I was interested in was being on the silver screen, to be seen by the people and to live in their hearts. I wanted to be loved. Stars shine for some time and fade away, but an actor will always leave behind a legacy. Jab comedy main chooth milti thi, to main khel jata tha. Being a tragic hero is easier than acting in a comedy. Wit is very important for an actor and I was very witty in my younger days. Also I believe, self-respect is very important for an actor. I once walked out of the set of a big film because I couldn’t bear what had transpired. I left the set, I came home and told my mother that we should go back to Punjab. Self-respect ke liye main bhid jata tha. Acting is reacting and hence an emotional person like me will always react faster to situations around him.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Honestly, I never considered anybody bigger than me. I would think I am the greatest actor. I didn’t come to the industry to compete with anyone. Na hum teen main hain na terah main hain, magar khuda ke bandon ki uss ginti main hain, jo khuda ko mohabbat, mohabbat ko khuda kehte hain, zore mohabbat bana liya hai dilon main, ab dilon se nikalein hum kahan nikalte hain… Nobody could displace me, I am not a show off but I have conviction in myself. I’ve never played games and I am not shrewd.
 
  
 
 
 While emotional people are an asset to the film industry, in politics it’s difficult for them to sustain themselves. I used to worry more about my constituency, Bikaner than own my house. They had three demands which I fulfilled and came back, but that never got spoken about. Honestly, I don’t know what qualities a politician should have.
 
  
 
 
