PATNA: It’s indeed an irony that at a time when the chancellor’s secretariat and the state government have been striving hard for ensuring automation of the state universities and digitization of their office records, a vast majority of the officers and staff of the higher education institutions are not even computer literate. All the works of admission, examination and accounts are done manually at most of the places.

 Even in   (PU) and its constituent colleges, office automation still remains a distant dream. Since hardly 10% of the class three or clerical staff working in   office are able to handle the computer, most of the office works are being transacted manually. PU had launched the system of online admission of students from the 2017-18 academic session, but it is yet to be implemented properly owing to acute shortage of tech savvy staff.
 
 Even premier institutions like Patna College and Patna Science College have not yet been able to ensure automation of their offices. These institutions have to cut a sorry figure whenever they are directed to furnish data online to the PU office for their onward transmission to the  , central or state government as their staff are ignorant of the use of computers. In most cases, they either submit hand written data or hire some computer-literate staff from outside.
 
 Even though there is a full-fledged computer section in PU, it hardly serves any purpose so far as office automation is concerned. As this section is not capable of programming or creating a payment gateway, the task of online admission or examination is given to some outside professional agencies or even banks. Last year, the admission seekers faced great inconvenience in depositing their admission fee online and, hence, many of them were ultimately allowed to deposit the same through bank challan. “There are about 150 non-teaching staff attached to the PU office, but not more than five to six are well conversant with the application of computer or online transaction,” said a senior section officer.
 
 There are more than 30 staff in Patna College, but not a single staff is capable of operating computer. Hence, the college has hired two computer operators on part-time basis for disposal of some urgent online transactions or typing some letters to be sent outside, said college principal  .
 
 Nearly a decade back, all the postgraduate departments of PU were provided with computers along with fax, Xerox and printers and asked to have Internet access with a view to expediting office automation. PU also started computer training programme for the office staff, but only a few staff could take advantage of this programme. The computer terminals were allowed to rot in some departments and only a few institutions could get access to the Internet. The entire scheme of automation virtually flopped.
 
 Taking strong exception to the reported apathy of the office staff towards use of computers, PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad has given the errant staff one last chance for making themselves conversant with the use of computers. He has made it clear that those who do not know the use of computers would lose their annual increments and have to forego their promotion. A training programme has also been launched for them in PU office, Prasad said.
 
 
