AHMEDABAD: A   has ordered issuance of arrest warrants against Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s (VHP) international working president Pravin Togadia and 36   including a BJP MLA and leaders in connection with a 22-year-old case involving skirmishes between two groups of BJP known as Hajuria and Khajuria.

 Since the accused, including Togadia, BJP’s MLA   Patel, corporator Krushnavadan Brahmbhatt and advocate Minesh Waghela, did not remain present in court in response to repeated summons, the court on Wednesday ordered to issue warrants against them. Further proceeding is posted on January 30, court officials said.
 
 One of the accused, Ilesh Patel, came to know about the court’s decision and presented himself before the Court No 11 at Metropolitan Court campus at Gheekanta on Thursday morning. “I came to know about the development through one of my advocate friends. I went to court with a guarantor and obtained bail. The court cancelled the warrant against me,” Patel said.
 
 The case is pending in the court since 1996 and it involved a rift between Shankersinh Vaghela and Keshubhai Patel groups in BJP. During a party meeting held at the Sardar Patel Stadium on May 20, 1996, Keshubhai's supporters, called as Hajuria, stripped the dhoti off senior BJP minister Atmaram Patel, who stood by Vaghela. Vaghela supporters came to be called as Khajuria after he had taken his supporter MLAs to Khajurao a year before. The skirmishes took place soon after Atal Bihari Vajpayee had addressed a public meeting at this place.
 
 A criminal case was filed against 37 persons including Togadia. After Vaghela formed a government a few months later, charge of attempt to murder under section 307 of IPC was also added in the complaint. The case did not move an inch further, as the BJP government, which came back to power in 1998, made a move to withdraw the charges as most of the accused, who are party leaders now at different levels, have been alleging political vendetta.
 
 Advocate Waghela said, “The complaint was nothing but a political vendetta. It was aimed at damaging our political career.” Waghela later went on to become a corporator in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation.
 
 The complainant in this case, Jagrupsinh Rajput, who too defected from BJP only to return to the fold in 2012 to become an MLA from Gomtipur constituency, said that he has got no idea about the status of the case. “There were so many political developments since the complaint was filed. I quit the party and then came back to BJP. I was not interested in the case. The state government also tried to withdraw the case once,” Rajput said.
 
 
