CHANDIGARH:   leader and present councillor   did not leave any stone unturned in pleading mercy while pronouncing the quantum sentence against him. Babla, on Saturday, was produced in the court of additional district and session judge   in a graft case related to allotment of sheds at the Sector 26 Grain Market. 

 The court that was full with his supporters and his family members also saw Babla's advocate pleading mercy for him after keeping his augments across. 
 
 The court dismissed his appeal and upheld lower court's order where he was held guilty. The court would now be pronouncing the quantum of sentence on Monday. 
 
 Pleading leniency,   stated in the court that he was the victim of a conspiracy, which was hatched by the opponents to ruin his political career. He also stated that his father was ailing and his son was about to get married. He also pleaded that he has a whole political career, which could be ruined. He state that he has no role to play in the scam as he had no signing authority. 
 
 It was argued that he had sent all the documents to the DC and he was the one who took the call. He argued that he raised his voice against ITC back then, due to which three cases were filed against him. He said he didn't even have the power to allot sheds. If he had the power, he could have used it woo voters, he added. 
 
 Meanwhile, an application was moved by the defence counsel in which it was stated that Babla could not be granted sentence for more than three years. In the application, it was stated that as per section 386 of CrPC, the appellate court shall not inflict more punishment than what the trial court could awarded. 
 
 During the arguments for awarding sentence in the case against Babla, the defence counsel stated the court may keep in mind that the convict was released on probation for a period of one year, which he had already under gone, further adding that nothing new had emerged to block the release of the convict on probation.
 
 It was also argued that Babla had already undergone imprisonment for a period of four months and three days. 
 
 Babla had challenged the lower court order in the appellate court. The lower court convicted him on the charges of cheating in the allotment of sheds at Sector 26 Grain Market, but was released on probation for one year on July 22, 2014. The order was passed by then civil judge (junior division) Shifa.
 
 
