Through his upcoming 'Omertà', which stars   as the British-Pakistani terrorist Omar Saeed Sheikh,   wants to “demonise the rogue state that exists within every state” – in this case, Pakistan. And yes, the often-outspoken critic of the establishment is aware his film might end up as every right-winger’s dream. But just because he’s “left of centre”, doesn’t mean “you close your eyes to reality that exists,” he says. Both Mehta and Rao call 'Omertà' a “companion piece” to their 2012 outing ' ' – both are stories of young men who went on the same path but made opposing choices later, for which one got killed and the other enjoys state patronage till date. And they say that we should be able to tell both kinds of stories. Excerpts:

 
 
 
  I also want to demonise the rogue state that exists within every state, which empowers, patronises, encourages men like Omar Sheikh. After  , we literally gifted this man to the Pakistani establishment and the establishment, even after Daniel Pearl’s killing, has protected him, not extradited him, not carried out the death sentence, that was aborted within six months of him being arrested, just as a token. In 2018, 15 years later, he is still in prison and on his way out. The complicity of the state in sponsoring terrorism, that interests me a lot, whichever it may be. Through Omar Sheikh we are looking at the state of Pakistan being complicit through its intelligence agencies.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  For me, finally, it’s a thriller. It’s an engaging, fast-paced thriller through which you are discovering, one, the complicity of the state, two, a character like Omar Sheikh – a   dropout, a British citizen of Pakistani descent – and his getting absorbed into the system of global terror. Every time there is a new terror attack, this story keeps coming back to me, it’s an example. It is a symbol of how globally terror is brought about not by people who we arrest, not the economically oppressed individual. He is an educated young man coming from a background of privilege and becoming a monster – what makes him that?
 
 
 
 
  No, it’s not that. We are dwelling upon his background, Bosnia and the events that lead up to his student activism, events that lead up to his eventual absorption into the system. We are talking about it, you are seeing it, but at a level at which you are not justifying his indoctrination.
 When the west watches its own films they celebrate the brevity, the economy of expression and the open-endedness of the narrative and then why am I, as an Indian filmmaker, expected to be spoonfeeding? Is that the narrative that Indian cinema is spoonfeeding you? No, we also make films that challenge your intellect, challenge your ability to raise those questions. Why do you become lazy when watching our films?
  
 
 
 
  No, misguided youth or angst or racially discriminated, marginalized young man... I mean, am I going to justify his path? No, I’m not. And I’m not going to give you easy answers. I am going to give you questions. My film has to raise questions. We have to answer them together. Why should I spoonfeed you, the viewer, with the questions and the answers? A film like this needs to raise important questions. This is a companion piece to our earlier film Shahid, which also raised questions, which was the story of a young man, a righteous man, who went on the same path, but made a choice later to follow the righteous path. A man killed at 32. Omar Sheikh decided to take the other path, got protected by the state, and became this demon.
 
  
  
 
 
  Raj has prepared for it. He will be able to tell you, but you know, again there is a thin line. I’m married to a Muslim. Both of us studied a lot about Islam while making 'Shahid' and I mean, there is a lot of compassion, lot of learnings that we have got from our understanding of the religion. A lot of love, compassion, prayer – the strength of prayer that we have derived from 'Shahid', this is about the misuse of that same doctrine. 'Omertà' is about religion being misused. It is about the misuse of what is a religion of compassion. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  Well, after the whole 1993-94 Bosnia thing that happened, he felt very disturbed. Even when we watch whatever is going on in   today and we watch pictures online, kids dying, you feel sometimes angry, sometimes helpless. This one boy felt very strongly about whatever was going on at that point of time, and he wanted to do something about it. The same, like what happened with Shahid. They both were at the same point in life and they both chose the same path. They both got strongly brainwashed. These guys took them to this path of destruction, but Shahid was smart enough to realise it’s not the right path. He came back and chose to be a human rights lawyer. But this guy (Omar) was hot-blooded, he was raging, he was ruthless. He chose that path, he carried on. And of course, in that path, there are so many things. Like how sir said, they start misusing religion, by misquoting text, by giving a different meaning to the text. That’s how they get brainwashed. And then he just couldn’t come back. He started cherishing that life. If you listen to those hate speeches, some of them are available online, it’s mindboggling. The way they perform, the speeches are really full of anger and hate. Hatred, it does something to you. But then, you have to choose your path. Shahid chose the right path, this guy didn’t.
 
 
  I also felt Shahid lived in India, and Omar lived in Pakistan. I’m not being biased but you see, that is the one primary difference that (in Shahid’s case) with all our problems, he came back. He was in Tihar jail, with Omar Sheikh. Omar was exchanged during Kandahar. The judicial system finally acquitted Shahid, he came back to Mumbai and he integrated himself into the mainstream because, I think, our culture, our country gave him that chance, that somebody like him could come out, somebody who was so marginalised otherwise.
 
  
  Rajkummar Rao and Hansal Mehta
 
 
 
 
  Exactly, and that you know, is the truth. We, at least – whatever our criticism – we have a judiciary that still functions. Yes, there are delays, but it functions. What do you have in Pakistan? The judiciary is also a mockery. Democracy is a complete mockery there.
 Shahid is a more mature, resolved individual. In Newton, you have a very clear moral compass, almost to the point of naivety. From such characters, to this one, someone you want to demonise, which is a greater challenge? Manoj Bajpai, for instance, once made the point that playing the unabashedly lecherous character in 'Gangs Of Wasseypur' was a greater acting challenge than most of his roles.
 
  It is. I completely agree with him. I think, as Newton, I could connect with him because there are some similarities between me and Newton. But when it comes to somebody like Omar Sheikh, I could not relate to him at all, on any level. I don’t know anybody like him. I had no reference. So, actually, my process started from scratch, by reading about him, his life, or boys like him and about these organisations – how and why it all started, going back to the Afghanistan War or the creation of the Taliban and then what happened to them. To understand why he was doing it, I had to go through the same way, same process. I started looking at those images, what he had been looking at at that point of time. Those images were my wallpapers. Wherever I would turn, those images would be there and I would really cultivate that kind of anger inside me in that process. And then, I moved on to those speeches, the hate speeches. And then I would get into that zone, that mind space. It was a tough process, because I am a very fun-loving guy. I love smiling and I want people to be happy around me. To be in that really dark space was not easy, but as an actor, I wanted to go there, because this was the only chance that I could, you know, evolve or explore an emotion like this. Because nobody has actually made a film that is only about a villain. There is always either a grey character or hero and villain. This is purely about this villain. I went to London to study the culture there, to study the accent there. I was simultaneously growing my beard and getting really muscular to feel like him, be like him physically. It was a long process. Then eventually, once I got into that mindspace, is when we started shooting. And once we started shooting, I kept going deeper into it.
 
 
 
 
  I didn’t want to be in that space. I wanted to get out of it as soon as we were done. And I was very happy, I felt very light the moment we got done with the film, that I don’t have to carry that baggage, that hatred inside me anymore. The people who came to meet me during that period, they thought my aura has changed, there’s something weird about me. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  People are getting brainwashed on WhatsApp! I have read some articles where young boys, they felt like victims, they want to do something about things, and they’re getting brainwashed on WhatsApp and joining these organisations, which is scary. Why do you think the first thing the government does whenever there is tension in an area is to cut off mobile data? Because, WhatsApp. Twitter.
 
  Also, now indoctrination is beginning from a very young age. We’ve tried to explore that to some extent. There is a cultural context, where how the education system also sort of subtly begins to indoctrinate you, takes you towards a certain thinking. Educational reform is key if we have to stop indoctrination.
 
 
 
 
 I’m always a centrist. I have been a centrist. Left of centre, always. And I remain that. But I am also a filmmaker, and I tell stories. And that is above left, right and centre.
 
 
 
 
  But that same audience also celebrates the tokenism in the name of peace. We have a very confused right wing, a very confused left wing, and... We have to be open about telling all the stories. Because you are left of centre doesn’t mean that you put blinkers, you close your eyes to a reality that exists. I think the need of the hour is not Left, Right or Centre, it is realism. To be realistic about the world we are living in, look at it straight in the eye without being clouded by ideology, religion or caste and creed. It is important to look at it straight in the eye, and that’s what we try to do, that’s what a film like 'Omertà' is trying to do. Looking at the problem straight in the eye. 
 My problem is inaction. Unfortunately, we are shown a dream, and we buy the dream very easily. Every five years, we buy a new dream, we see that dream dying, and then we buy another new dream. I have been doing it ever since I became of eligible voting age. I have been buying dreams, and seeing those dreams crumbling because those five years are spent campaigning. New dreams are being sold. So we are a comatose world, we’re comatose citizens of a country who are being fed this soothing music while there is mayhem going on.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  I feel we are just namby-pamby about politics. We just keep swaying. We are scared people. Nobody cares about us. I don’t blame us. Nobody cares. Committee after committee is appointed... We complain and then retreat. Because there’s nothing coming forth. We are still glamour dolls, we adorn all your functions, but we don’t really count.
 
 
 
 
  No, I enjoy it. I enjoy being this rebel. I enjoy saying this. Because I’ve been able to make films, speak out. I feel that in an environment like this, my films end up having a distinct voice because my films say it fearlessly. But it’s difficult to be fearless here. You’re constantly warned, keep quiet, don’t say anything... Okay, maybe I’ll be careful next time (laughs). 
 
 
 
 
 It is a global story. Even as we are talking, I have just received news that 'Omertà' has been cleared by the censors in Dubai. It is being shown in the UAE – a subject of this kind of sensitivity, which I think is incredible. It is admirable that the censors have seen it with an open mind there and they have deemed it fit. And it’s certified it 15+, which is even more amazing. We don’t have that kind of certification. We just have ‘A’ or ‘U/A’. It’s a global story – the world is shrinking. Our audience also will embrace it. 
 
 
  
  
 
