MOHALI: Entrepreneurs raised a number of issues hampering the growth of information technology (IT) industry in the region at The Times of India’s “CEOs' roundtable on the startup ecosystem” on Wednesday, prompting the Punjab government to announce setting up of a task force for promoting the industry.

 Punjab principal secretary, industries and commerce, R K Verma made this announcement. The entrepreneurs highlighted problems such as delay in decision making, poor air connectivity, high rate of land and power, stringent norms, lack of proper eco system and qualified workforce.
 
 Verma suggested having a task force for permanent solutions and quick redressal of grievances. He said the task force will be anchored by   (STPI), Mohali, and experts from the industry would be hired full-time. “The task force will function from STPI and its structure will be laid down very shortly,” said Verma.
 
 For making it more effective, Sameer Jain of Net Solutions and Kunal   of   suggested only private players should be given charge of steering the task force.
 
 The entrepreneurs called for setting up specific goals which should be achieved in a time-bound manner. “To make the task force more efficient, top issues need to be identified and resolved in a time-bound manner. Else, there is no point in having such a body,” Nandwani said.
 
 Giving the example of Hyderabad, which has established itself as one of the most prominent technology hubs in the country, Sofi Zahoor of QuarkxPress Publishing R&D India Private Limited, said Hyderabad had set up a task force around 20 years back which helped in promotion and growth of IT. “Hyderabad was in similar position which Chandigarh region is in right now around 20 years back. The task force helped Hyderabad propel the IT growth,” Zahoor said.
 
 The entrepreneurs rued lack of support system required for the growth of startups. Taranjeet Singh of   shared the hardship he had to face in initial years. “Startups face a lot of problems while dealing with the government. They need hand-holding during the initial years, which unfortunately, is not there in the region,” said Taranjeet Singh
 
