LUDHIANA: Eight days after two undertrials escaped, jail minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa suspended four Ludhiana Central Jail officials on Tuesday. According to the inquiry report submitted by IG (prisons) RK Arora, three out of these four had signed the rollcall of Sunday night in which the undertrials were marked present, even as they had already escaped.

 
 The suspended officials include jail superintendent Shamsher Singh Boparai, deputy superintendent  , assistant superintendent Parwinder Singh and head warder  . However, the suspension of superintendent is being reconsidered as he was on leave that day.
 
 On May 13, siblings, Harvinder Singh and  , accused of a burglary at Andhra Bank, Rasulra branch, Khanna, had escaped from the jail.
 
 The police investigation found that the accused scaled the jail wall by using thick cables of   cameras and wall clips fixed on the administrative block.
 
 Jail minister Randhawa had marked an inquiry to the IG (prisons) RK Arora and he submitted his report on Monday. Randhawa said, “It was the negligence and laxity of jail officials that helped the  . As per the probe report, the rollcall -- on which the deputy superintendent, the assistant superintendent and the head warder have signed – indicates that the accused siblings were present in the barrack. But, the CCTV footage shows the duo was somewhere else at the time of rollcall. And a few minutes later they escaped.”
 
 ADGP (prisons) IPS Sahota said, “The investigation report states that undertrials were hiding on the premises during rollcall. If the officials had done their duty efficiently, they could have foiled the plan of the accused. The inquiry report also supports the investigation of the local police.” According to the report, the accused fled from the administrative block. The officer said even the guards were negligent as they didn’t stop Harvinder and Jasvir when they were roaming around.
 
 ‘Supdt suspension may be revoked’
 
 ADGP IPS Sahota said the suspension of jail superintendent Shamsher Singh Boparai was being reconsidered as he was on leave that day. Sahota said he has taken up the matter with the jail minister with the recommendation of reinstating him. 
 
