Ahmedabad: Gujarat high court has said that in the present-day situation in which “honesty has become a very rare commodity”, there is a need to change the definition of cheating in the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and there is a need to shift the burden of proof on the cheat, to prove that he had no intention of cheating.

 While refusing to quash an FIR for cheating in a financial transaction, Justice J B Pardiwala has said that Section 415 of the IPC defines cheating in a different manner than a common man understands it. 
 
 To establish an act of cheating under the law, the offender must have an intention of cheating much before entering into the transaction. 
 
 If this ill-intention from the beginning is not established, the IPC does not recognize the act as cheating.
 
 The HC said, “In the present-day situation, when honesty has become a very rare commodity and since nobody would make apparent his intention to cheat even at the time of inception and since the persons resort to cheating only after creating a confidence about his being honest in the mind of the man he intends to cheat, in my considered opinion, it may be in the fitness of things and to suit the present day need, to cast the burden to establish that he had no intention to cheat on the accused, by making suitable amendments to Section 415 of IPC.”
 
 The high court further said that the greed to become rich overnight by any means has become the order of the day, and several individuals and bogus institutions are alluring innocent people by promising rich returns. The investments vanish overnight.
 
  There are laws to prevent this, but such acts do not fall under the definition of Section 415 of the IPC.
 
 Justice Pardiwala clarified in his order that only offender has special knowledge about his intention to cheat. If the complainant knows it, he will never enter into transaction with a cheat.
 
  It is difficult for a complainant to establish that offender is dishonest right from the beginning.
 
  The HC said that the lawmakers should think about this aspect and make necessary amendments.
 
 
