PUNE: The city has recorded an exponential rise in   cases, more than double the number last month, even before the monsoon has made its presence felt.

 
 “As per our records, there were 23 dengue cases in April. The number has risen to 53 in May,” said Sanjeev Wavare, head of the insect control department of the Pune Municipal Corporation.
 
 
  
 
 However, there has been no report of dengue cases from the city’s core areas. Most of the dengue cases have been reported from fringe areas such as Wakad, Warje, Sinhagad Road, Hadapsar and Kharadi.
 
 Unseasonal showers in some areas a few days ago followed by a rise in humidity and water stagnation at constructions sites are some of the reasons for the rise in dengue cases.
 
 “I have come across 10 confirmed dengue cases since April 15. The patients are mainly from the fringe areas. There has been a perceptible rise in the number of cases in the last few days. Various climatic and man-made conditions are at play. People should take precautions,” said senior family physician Avinash Bhondwe, who practices at Shivajinagar.
 
 Dengue cases rise in May, fringe areas most affected: Civic data
 
 He, however, added that he had not come across dengue patients in the core city areas so far.
 
 Family physician Pravin Darak said, “The season of vector-borne diseases seem to be here. I have come across two patients whose platelet count has dropped drastically in the last few days. They are from Dhankawadi and the rural parts of Pune.”
 
 Darak said there were also patients with symptoms of dengue-like fever. “They too have classical symptoms like fever with drop in platelet count, weakness, body pain and nausea. But they test negative for the dengue antigen and antibody test. I have seen 8-10 such patients in the last few days,” he said.
 
 However, low platelet count does not always indicate dengue. “A common cold and viral fever can also bring down platelets,” said paediatrician Sharad Agarkhedkar, former president of the Indian Medical Association, Pune branch.
 
 Senior physician Shivaram Bhonagiri of Medipoint Hospital in Aundh, said, “I had come across a lone case a month ago. The patient was from some fringe area. I think only some areas where construction activities are on the rise and areas which witnessed some unseasonal rain have been affected by dengue.”
 
 Incidentally, private hospitals and government-designated sentinel centres have also recorded a significantly high number of dengue cases in May.
 
 Experts said dengue fever and dengue haemorrhagic fever are the most common mosquito-borne viral diseases in the world. “Only the female mosquito feeds on blood. This is because it needs the protein found in blood to produce eggs. Male mosquitoes feed only on plant nectar,” they added.
 
 The doctors said denguecausing mosquito is attracted to humans by body odour, carbon dioxide and body heat. “The female Aedes mosquito is a day-biter, most active in dawn and dusk and therefore people should exercise precautions during the day,” they added.
 
 As many as 200 cases of dengue were reported from private hospitals and sentinel centres in the city between January and June last year. A total of 5,196 cases were reported between July till November 2 last year, taking the total count to 5,396 then. The maximum, 667, cases were recorded from the jurisdiction of Yerawada-Kalas Dhanori ward office, to be closely followed by Hadapsar-Mundhwa area with 575 cases.
 
