CHENNAI: Kasimedu fisherman   risked his life and steered his trawler boat through choppy waters nearly 70 nautical miles into the sea for a week last month to get a good catch. Last August, carcass of an 18-foot-long endangered whale shark was found at Pamban south beach with internal injuries. The two incidents may be unrelated, but there is one common factor that drove the fisherman away far into the sea and the dead deep sea animal to the shore -- marine litter.

 “There was a time when you could see fishes in the sea from the shore. Now, if we go fishing anywhere within 15 nautical miles, more than 50% of what we get is garbage,” the fisherman said.
 
 
  
 
 While marine debris has been acknowledged as an issue plaguing our coast, oceanographers say the amount of trash in the sea, its impact on the livelihood of coastal communities, marine life and human health are still unclear.
 
 To tackle the problem, the Centre is coming up with a National Marine Litter Policy and city-based National Centre for Coastal Research ( ), under the ministry of earth sciences, will provide data required to frame the guidelines.
 
 Rajeevan Nair, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, said India would conduct studies on marine litter with US and UK, and NCCR would be part of it. The findings will help understand the situation and help the government frame a policy. “Marine litter is a serious issue. If someone pollutes inland, we have rules to act. But we do not have such regulations for open sea,” he said.
 
 To grasp the problem, NCCR conducted a study last November at Marina, Elliot’s and Thiruvanmiyur beaches and along   and Cooum rivers where they found that more than 50% of beach debris washed ashore during monsoon was plastic.
 
 NCCR scientist Pravakar Mishra said both Cooum and Adyar get flooded after heavy rain bringing large volumes of litter to the coast. The coastal hydrodynamics transports this litter along the coast which later gets trapped in and around the beaches.
 
 While the study gave a glimpse of what surrounds the Chennai coast, findings from a research conducted across 254 beaches in the country by Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), Kochi, shows all is not lost.   is comparatively cleaner than the Gujarat, Goa and Karnataka coasts.
 
 The role of microplastics, pieces of plastic debris less than 5mm, and chemical leaching from plastics are dimensions of marine pollution yet to be studied in India. “Microplastics come from salt that we eat, from lotions and creams. We know microplastics and chemical leaching happens due to weathering of plastics from exposure to sunlight and rain, but we do not have scientific evidence to prove the impact,” said scientist V  , head, fisheries environment management division, CMFRI.
 
 Kripa said when plastics float on the sea surface, the part inside the water is filled with silt. Over time, silt pushes the plastic to the seabed and covers it. “We have multiple layers of plastics on the seabed along with sediment within 20km in our sea due to silt,” Kripa said.
 
 Several countries have programmes to tackle the menace. Korea offer incentives to fishermen who bring back waste to the shore, Australia encourages people to bring fishing nets dumped in the sea. “Compared to smaller countries like Indonesia, our coast is not so polluted. But we will get to that stage if we do not come up with solid waste management programme in the coastal areas,” Kripa said.
 
 
