TIRUPUR: The   on Wednesday presented a Rs 5.87-crore surplus budget for the year 2018-19, with the overall revenue of Rs 1,171.54 crore.

 Releasing the budget, corporation commissioner M Ashokan said the civic body will earn revenue of Rs 1,171.54 crore under various heads, including tax collection, drinking water distribution and educational cess. The expected expenditure for this financial year is Rs 1,165.67 crore. Hence, the corporation is expecting a surplus fund of Rs 5.87 crore in this financial year.
 
 Two big projects will be undertaken in the city under Amrut scheme. Rs 400 crore has been allocated for the Rs 994 crore- fourth water scheme, which is expected to fulfill the drinking water needs of the city till the year 2050. Rs 101 crore has been allotted for the Rs 525-crore extension of underground drainage scheme.
 
 In order to increase surveillance to prevent criminal activities and to regulate traffic, CCTV cameras and traffic signaling equipment will be established. A command and control centre will be established to monitor all the feeds from these facilities. Rs 40 crore of the estimated Rs 150 crore has been allocated to set up CCTVs, signaling equipment and command and control centre.
 
 Importantly, three road bridges across  , including Parappalayam-Rayapuram, Eswaran Koil   and AITUC Colony-TEA Road, will get wings this year. Especially,   will be started and completed this year with allocation of Rs 3.30 crore. For the rest, Rs 9 crore and Rs 6 crore were allocated respectively and those projects will be started this year.
 
 Under the   scheme, Rs 60 crore has been allocated to develop basic facilities at daily market on Kamarajar Salai, flower market and fish market, and also at weekly market at Thennampalayam.
 
 The opposition parties said the civic body might have projected the budget as surplus to attract loans from financial institutions for some of the big schemes, including fourth water scheme, which were announced this year.
 
 “Last year, the corporation presented a deficit budget as usual. But this year, it was surplus. It might be eyeing to attract loans from financial institutions. But it should not become a hinder to the civic body to get sufficient funds from the central government. It may put burden on the people in the form of taxes,” Tirupur district CPM secretary S Muthukannan told TOI.
 
 Corporation commissioner Ashokan told TOI: “They did not revise any taxes this year and even they have halted their plan of collecting taxes from tax-omitted buildings, which were identified by conducting re-surveys.”
 
 
