Nagpur: The upcoming academic session may very well prove to be a watershed moment for education in remote Bhamragadh taluka of Gadchiroli, as the state government mulls affiliating at least one school to the newly started international board. 

 TOI was the first to report in October 2017 itself about state’s plan to start a new international board, something which became official last week. 
 
 A source in the school education department told TOI that senior officials in Mantralaya are keen on picking up a government school in Bhamragadh and assigning it the international board status. 
 
 “Things are looking really bright for Bhamragadh to be on the map as lot of quality work is being done at the ground level here. Local teachers and officials here are putting in a lot of effort and the bosses at Mantralaya have started to take notice,” said the source. 
 
 While it is still time for an official list to be declared, a senior education official had earlier told TOI that there were specific plans for Bhamragadh, vis-à-vis the international board. “We would definitely want an international school to be started in Bhamragadh,” the official had said. 
 
 Now with the international board proposal getting the green signal and need for schools to be affiliated to it, Gadchiroli district may get its first ever international board school. Though in the news mostly for Naxalite activities, Gadchiroli has many semi-urban towns. The city itself boasts of a CBSE school being run by a big Nagpur-based educational group and there are many other schools and colleges. It also is home to the first ISO-9000 certified civic body school.
 
 The new international board set up by the state government will have seven committees to cater to students from pre-primary to Std XII. It will be available for schools imparting education in English, Marathi, Hindi, Urdu, Gujarati, Telugu, Tamil and Kannada. 
 
 Speaking to TOI earlier this week, state’s school education secretary Nand Kumar, said, “Today, boards from outside the country are so popular and our schools get affiliated to it. We want to be able to provide similar high quality education and once we have perfected the curriculum, we hope schools outside the state and the country will want to affiliate themselves with our board.” 
 
 
