KOTA: A 13-year-old boy drowned in gurdwara’s water tank in Kota on Saturday.

 The identity of the deceased boy has not been established so far, however, the body was later recovered and placed in the mortuary of   (MBS) Hospital for the post-mortem to be carried out after his identify is ascertained. Similarly, a 38-year old man fell into Chambal river from an overbridge in Nayapura area but was rescued by a team from Kota Municipal Corporation.
 
 The identity of the deceased has not been established and the body was placed in the mortuary of MBS hospital for the post-mortem to be carried out after the identify and family members of the deceased boy are ascertained.
 
 The boy reportedly took off his clothes to take bath in the sarovar in Gurudwara premises and went into deep water but drowned. There were devotees to celebrate Baishaki. When the devotees, taking bath in the tank noticed clothes, they suspected that someone has drowned and informed the police following which the rescue team from Kota Municipal Corporation ( ), led by diver Vushnu Shringi was called to the spot. Body was recovered from the deep water in the tank.
 
 Similarly, a 38-year-old man allegedly jumped into the Chambal river from an overbridge in Nayapura area but instead of falling into deep water, he stuck in the water plants in the river and could not drown into deep water. When the by passers on the overbridge noticed him below tangled in water plants, they informed the police.
 
 A 38-year-old man identified as Mukesh Goswami, a resident of Panchwati Nagar, in Kunhari area of the city fell into the Chambal river from over bridge today noon but he was rescued safe by the rescue team from KMC,   at Nayapura police station   told. The rescued man told the police he was sitting on the over bridge wall after parking his motorbike on roadside, when he suddenly felt dizzy, lost his balance and fell into the river below, the ASI said declining that he had jumped into the river with motive to suicide. The rescued man has been handed over to his family members a report of accident was filed in the police station in this connection, the ASI said.
 
 Goswami earlier worked as taxi driver but a few months ago his taxi was stolen, however the stolen taxi and the accused were later recovered and arrested but his family members sold off the taxi a few days back, since then he was running upset and mentally disturbed, the ASI said.
 
 
