PATIALA/BATHINDA:   of wheat in  , Sangrur, Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib districts has hit the   and   both. Farmers are not finding the space in grain markets to unload their produce, while traders fear loss of weight of the grain purchased by them and lying in mandis (grain markets).

 Farmers claimed that shortage of jute bags was one of the major reasons for tardy lifting of grain. In Sangrur, the situation had become worse as out of 8.31 lakh tonnes of wheat procured, only 3.8 lakh tonnes has been lifted. Around 8.7 lakh tonnes of wheat has arrived in the grain markets of the district.
 
 Sangrur district food and civil supply controller Jaspreet Singh said, “Surge in arrivals of wheat in grain markets within a week is the main reason behind slow lifting. There are around 3,000 trucks involved in lifting of the food grain.”
 
 In Ropar district, 1.03 lakh tonnes of wheat has been procured, out of which 50,176 tonnes was lifted till Monday.
 
 Farmer leader Satnam Singh Behru said, “Shortage of jute bags is the key reason behind tardy lifting of food grains besides poor management by the government. The relation between arhtiyas (commission agents) and farmers is affected when payment is delayed due to slow lifting and delay in crop procurement.”
 
 Sangrur arhtiya association president Harwinder Singh Popli said, “Payments are delayed. But more than that there will be loss of weight of the grain that has been procured. Loss of weight due to decrease in moisture of the crop will hurt traders.”
 
 With harvesting at its peak, farmers have to face a lot of hardships in unloading their produce at   grain market as there is no space left for more stock. Farmers are also made to wait for wheat procurement as the authorities are waiting for the lifting of the sold stocks from the grain market. Apart from Bathinda, many other grain markets in the Malwa region are full of uncleared stocks leaving almost no space for unloading fresh produce.
 
 Even the lanes leading to mandis and roads are full of gunny bags. In Bathinda, 5.30 lakh tonnes of wheat had been procured till Sunday, out of which only 2.32 lakh tonnes (43.85%) has been lifted.
 
 Farmers Mithu Singh and Darshan Singh from Gulabgarh village have been in Bathinda mandi since Sunday to sell their grains. Babu Singh from Jassi Pau Wali village has been sitting in the mandi since Saturday, waiting for his crop to be procured by agencies. “As there is no space left in the grain market, we had a tough time unloading wheat after spotting some space. Now that we have managed to unload our produce, no one is there to procure it. Authorities claim after some stocks are lifted only then our produce will be purchased,” said Mithu.
 
 Bathinda district mandi officer Apinder Kumar said efforts were being made to speed up lifting by making space in the godowns. 
 
 In Moga, only 2.02 lakh tonnes (41.5%) out of 4.87 lakh tonnes of wheat procured has been lifted from the mandis.
 
 Meanwhile, facing severe space shortage, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) too is waiting for the special rakes to carry the procured grain. FCI’s Bathinda manager (procurement) Chakkerpani Sidharth said the central agency had so far procured nearly 42,000 tonnes of wheat in Bathinda and Mansa.
 
 
