Nagpur: Hospitals and clinics have started becoming techno-savvy by adopting latest software and apps. As per the doctors, this approach is making treatment more precise and time-saving for them as well as the patients.

 A fine example is senior orthopaedic surgeon Dr Ashutosh Apte. With the help of software, combined with his own creativity, Apte has changed the way his OPD functions. For pulmonologist Dr Ravindra Sarnaik, his handset is the crucial part of his practice through which he has access to the entire hospital on a single click.
 
 As per software experts, such medical-based applications are increasing the efficiency of hospitals. Omkar Nakade, co-founder of Mednet which develops IT solutions for the medical industry, said patient care is becoming more predictable, easy, time-saving and accurate with the introduction of IT in the health industry. 
 
 Nakade said, “Decision making for the hospital and executive is easy since they have all the past statistics. On a single click, Dr Apte can see the number of times he has prescribed any particular medicine. Endocrinologist Dr Shailesh Pitale can see the statistics of Type II diabetes patient he is seeing or the ones being given insulin. Dr Sarnaik can analyse from which city or locality he is getting majority of asthma patients.”
 
 “We are streamlining every user in a hospital, including reception people, nurses, resident doctors and the consulting doctor. We also have solutions for the convenience of accountants and patients. Ultimately, it is the treatment which is improving,” he said.
 
 Apte said, “In the recent years, the number of patients has grown manifolds. Attending to 50 patients in three hours has become possible by relying on the app which is involved in every stage. I created four cubicles; my subordinates categorize the patients beforehand and sent them to respective cubicles. Rather than patient entering my chamber, I go to them with iPad in one hand. The iPad has access to the entire patient’s database through his account created on the first visit at the registration counter.”
 
 The account has all the data such as purpose of the patient’s current visit, past reports, and medical history. All this information is easily retrievable on a single click. If the patient forgets to bring the past prescription, it can also be retrieved.
 
 “After seeing the patient, his/her prescription is generated on the same app, which gets stored in his/her account. In case the patient has a certain allergy, his/her medical history will clearly reflect that and the treatment cause can be decided,” said Apte.
 
 Sarnaik said he uses pen only for signatures. “Currently, all the equipment in the hospital are connected with a LAN. If a patient undergoes X-Ray, it’s automatically uploaded on a common platform which is accessible to every staff of the hospital. I don’t have to wait for the report to arrive manually. Instead, I check it online as it’s uploaded in no time and go forward with the treatment,” he said.
 
 “The entire hospital has been trained in using the application. My cellphone has a separate tab to access all the CCTV cameras that enables me to view whatever goes at the hospital in my absence. I can view who all have registered in the OPD or IPD on the phone any time. When I am not in town, the staffers communicate every emergency through a video call,” he added.
 
 
