SHIMLA: At a time when the Congress leaders have alleged that the   (RSS) is influencing the new government, the BJP has accepted that RSS people have been appointed in the chief minister’s office (CMO).

 Chief BJP spokesperson   said the BJP has people associated with the RSS. He said RSS people are honest, loyal and able and such honest people have been appointed in the chief ministers office, unlike in the previous Congress government, where only retired and blue-eyed people were appointed.
 
 Meanwhile, Randheer said the BJP government has decided to probe the chargesheet prepared by the party against the previous Congress regime when it was in the opposition. “We had submitted the chargesheet to the governor when we were in the opposition and now the government would probe the allegations contained in this chargesheet, as promised by the BJP during assembly elections,” he added.
 
 He said the new government is settling down and the positive results will follow soon. He said the party is satisfied with the 45-day performance of Jai Ram Thakur-led government.
 
 On the issue of appointing chairman and vice-chairman in different boards and corporations, he said making such appointments is the prerogative of the chief minister and the party would put no pressure on him in this regard.
 
 On being asked about Congress questioning the transfers, he said transfers are part of a routine process. He said compared to previous Congress regime, very less transfers have taken place under the new regime.
 
 He said Congress leaders are questioning the Delhi visits of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, but Congress leaders should not forget that while in power they had remained silent on Delhi tours of then chief minister  .
 
 He alleged that Virbhadra had used a government helicopter for his Delhi tours that too for his personal works. He said contrarily, Jai Ram Thakur has visited Delhi to attend official meetings and to meet Prime Minister   and other Union ministers. 
 
 
