MUMBAI:The Bombay high court has ruled that a  , who runs a Rs 200 crore  , will have to leave his matrimonial home over allegations of domestic violence by his wife. Justice   upheld the order of a family court evicting the businessman from his own home and restraining him from committing any act of domestic violence or re-entering the house.

 “The object and intention of the protection under Domestic Violence Act would be rendered meaningless if the hands of law cannot reach to remedy such suffering... and provide relief to the helpless wife and children,” said Justice Kulkarni. The court cited the medical report, which revealed injuries suffered by the woman on her hand as well as a contusion to her ear. 
 
 The bench also took into account Whatsapp messages exchanged between the woman and her children, which revealed the alleged domestic abuse. In one such message, one of the daughters had during a foreign trip written to her mother that it would have been better if she had drowned in the Baltic Sea and not been rescued. “A child saying this about her own mother is something unusual and of a grave concern reflecting the nature of the harassment being caused to the woman,” said the judge. The court said the domestic violence was also making the lives of the couple’s children miserable.
 
 The man had claimed that there were cordial relations between the couple and they had also undertaken foreign trips with the children. The court said this could not be believed, given that the couple stayed in separate rooms in their house, as well as in hotels during foreign trips.
 
 The couple had married in 1995 and have two daughters and a son. The woman claimed that the domestic violence started after she filed a petition for divorce in 2015. The couple lived in the same house even after the filing of the divorce plea. In her complaint, she had said that she was subjected to physical and verbal abuse in front of her children. On November 20, 2017, the man had kicked and slapped her and threatened to slash her with a knife. She got injured while trying to protect herself from the knife. She lodged an application for protection under the DV Act. The couple has other financial disputes pending between them as well.
 
 The HC said this was not a case where the man would be rendered homeless as he had the means to take care of himself. His parents were also staying in a separate house in the city, the court said.
 
 
