CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh district court complex is beyond recognition these days as there is not an inch of wall left without posters and pamphlets hanging down. Ahead of the District Bar Association   on April 6, numerous violations are on display. Pasting of posters across walls are stated to be violation of the Advertisements Regulation Act. Candidates have been increasingly resorting to putting up large posters to exhibit their strength.

 According to the lawyers, they are not pasting any material as it will be defacement. Few stated that the chambers were bought by advocates, who could paste the posters anywhere. The returning officer for the elections advocate   reiterating the same view said they had not allowed pasting of any publicity or campaign material. However to avoid these posters from flying, these posters being hung with heavy weight objects like bricks, which are leading to mishaps.
 
 Several cases of injuries have been reported in the past three years, including this year as well. While some posters can be seen pasted with bamboo sticks on the lower portion, some are stopped from flying by putting bricks on them.
 
 The returning officer said once a bamboo stick broke a window pane and that he has time and again requested candidates to refrain from such practice. He informed that two similar incidents have taken place in the past. However, most of them have been removed now after one such incident last week. However, when contacted additional commissioner of the municipal corporation  , who is also sub-division magistrate (South), he said, “I will look into the matter and if violations are found then action would be taken as per law.” The posters can be seen hung everywhere, be it the service block, advocates’ chambers or the corridors connecting the chambers.
 
 The posters carry photographs of candidates contesting for various posts in the district bar association along with information of the post they are contesting for and their contact details.
 
