IDUKKI: Memories of that fateful night still send a chill down the spine for Thankappan. The 70-year-old native of Adimali was having a peaceful time at his house when it was attacked by a rogue elephant.  , who ran to save his life managed to enter a cardamom plantation but failed to find his way back. Hungry and tired, the elderly man spent over 11 hours inside the plantation and was saved by his neighbours and relatives at 7am the next day. He was later admitted to a private hospital.

 On February 21, 54-year-old Thankavel of   colony was attacked by a wild elephant. He too, managed to escape with minor injuries. However, there are less fortunate ones. From 2002, around 35 people in Munnar division alone have lost their lives in wild elephant attacks. In 2017 alone, five lives were lost.
 Fear of marauding elephants still keeps many awake in areas such as Chinnakanal, Anayiranka, Poopara, Adimali, Munnar,  , Kundala and Kanthalloor, which are worst-hit by the menace. Many choose to shut themselves inside their homes between 6pm and 7am.
 
 The forest department had tried several strategies to prevent such attacks but to no avail. It is not easy, too, as the reasons are longstanding and deep-rooted. “The main reason is loss of elephant habitats,” said Munnar range officer Suchindranath M.S. “For example, Sinkukandam 301 colony, which is one of the worst affected by elephant menace, was once an elephant habitat.”
 
 Development work, including construction of roads and buildings, were not carried out with far-sightedness, say green activists. Lack of enough food and water inside the forest area and loss of traditional habitats take a toll on wild animals. With summer around the corner, the issue is set to intensify, fear local residents. Thirsty animals venture out of forests and elephants, who cannot tolerate heat beyond a level, often turn the most violent.
 
 Three weeks ago a bison accidently fell on top of a hosue at Pallanadu near Marayoor in the early hours. When the incident happened, the hosue owner Rajkumar, wife Menaka and his mother were not in their house. The bison destroyed the furniture and other goods in the house. The bison was freed from the house after nine hours. The issue created a panicky situation in the area and the forest department provided compensation to the family.
 
 But there is one wild elephant that people in Munnar are less afraid of. He is a superstar, named after well-known Rajinikanth character Padayappa. “Normally rogue elephants turn violent but   is calm and quiet and never attacks anyone,” says Suchindranath. There are many who have encountered this mighty being in the Munnar-Marayoor route. His latest adventure was last week when he ventured into a ground where a football match was going on. Terrified, people ran away but Padayappa was cool, he roamed around a bit, watched and sniffed the ground, and retreated to the forest.
 
