
 
 
 The fest season in the campus has officially begun, and with major fests happening in February and March, the fight to get the best sponsors has gained pace among the students' unions of different colleges. This is because a large chunk of the fest - celebrity performances, the kind of stalls, and the prizes to be given to the winners - depends on the kind and the number of sponsorships a college gets. That is why, bigger the amount of the sponsorship, larger the publicity the brand demands from any college as part of deliverables. But many girls' colleges in DU accept a brand for sponsorship after a lot of consideration. And since all of them stand by the principles of women empowerment, they don’t accept any brand, that they think objectifies women, as a sponsor. The negative list includes fairness creams, body slimming belts, weight loss programmes and even a fashion show to showcase the collection of a clothing brand - which the brand asks the college to do as part of a deliverable - as it involves the participation of the college’s students as models.
 
 
 Any brand that sponsors a fest publicises the event at various platforms, which is why all the girls' colleges are very particular about their association with brands. "For us, a fest is not just an event to have fun. We take everything seriously and the brands are also decided after a lot of deliberation. We do not believe in the false image that fairness creams create in the minds of customers. We would not want to associate ourselves with a   brand as we stand against the notion of an ‘ideal’ body shape and colour. The brand can give us `20 lakh as sponsors, but we won’t accept it," says Amita Yadav, president of  .
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Some girls’ colleges in DU don’t allow sponsorships from condom brands. Riddhi Jain, president of   explains, "As one of the deliverables, a condom company wanted us to put posters of Sunny Leone in our college and our administration would have never allowed it, so we rejected the proposal."
 
 Sonali Sharma, president of  , tells us, "One of our sponsors is a brand that has condoms as one of its products. We have asked them if they can promote any other product and not condoms."
 
  
  Girls’ colleges say ‘NO’ to fairness creams, slimming belts as fest sponsors
 
 
 Sometimes, brands put up a demand that does not go well with the students as well as with the authorities. "We were contacted by a clothing brand and they wanted five of our students to walk the ramp to promote their brand at the fest. Why would we ask our students to dress up and model for them? They were offering a good amount, but we declined the offer," elaborates Amita.
 
 Raavi adds, "An ethnic wear clothing brand wanted to collaborate with us. As a deliverable, they wanted us to organize a fashion show at our fest. They wanted our students to take part in it but we declined the offer as do not approve of such objectification."
 
 
 
 Body shaming is one of the issues girls’ colleges are vocal about, which is evident from the plays that their drama societies put up. The LSR dramatics society as well as the street play society of IP College this year have their annual production on the same theme. While the drama societies are performing plays on body shaming, the student unions stand in support of the cause. Vaishali Dagar, president of  , explains, "We cannot judge a body type and we do not wish to promote anything of that sort. We do not even consider such brands as an option for sponsorship, even if they approach us." 
 
 Tanya Goel, vice-president of  , adds, "We won't accept a brand that objectifies women as a sponsor, but the membership of any gym or using slimming belts depend on the personal choices of students." Arundhati Rawat, president of Gargi College, who recently organized a fest in her college, says, "We encourage people to be confident about their bodies. As the president, I would never let brands of fairness creams and slimming belts to be sponsors for our fest."
 
 
 
 There are some girls’ colleges which looked at sponsorships only from the educational point of view. Payal Chauhan, president of  , says, “We majorly targeted educational institutes because there are such institutes in the vicinity. Though our fest is over, we would have never accepted a fairness cream as our sponsors. Why would we encourage or promote a specific skin colour?”
 
 
 
