THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Former Chief Justice of India, Justice K G   suggested that the   CJI should immediately convene a full court meeting to discuss the crisis triggered by the news conference held by four senior SC judges, led by Justice J   on Friday. 

 Terming the development 'unfortunate', Justice Balakrishnan said the issues should have been discussed and settled within the institution. "The developments will create a confusion among the public. Judiciary must initiate steps to restore public's faith in it," he said on the side-lines of the Loka Kerala Sabha, a conclave of non-resident Keralites, held here. The former CJI, who is an eminent member of Loka Kerala Sabha, didn't view the crisis as serious and exuded confidence that the senior members of judiciary would easily settle the issues through dialogues and debates. When asked whether any action should be taken against the judges who convened the news conference, Justice Balakrishnan said they did not commit any crime. "In that case, all who come to you should be in trouble," he told reporters.
 
 Justice KT Thomas, former Supreme Court judge too said it was a minor issue that could have been easily resolved by calling a full court meeting. It was expected that the Chief Justice of India would make a statement. As he has not done so, the issue can be resolved through a full court meeting, he said.
 
 "Judges conducting press meets should not continue as a convention. If this is the first, it should also be the last. It is something that cannot be encouraged. What the Supreme Court has to say has been said through the registrar general. Until now, the chief justices have the power over controlling the roster of Supreme Court and high courts. If it is given to others, it would create a lot of confusion. For its uniformity, it should be with the chief justice. The chief justice has the role of a captain. The decision where the players of a football team should play should be with the captain. Each player cannot be allowed to decide. That the chief justice is the master of the roster is not only a convention but the law as per a Supreme Court decision," he said.
 
 Justice KS Radhakrishnan, former Supreme Court judge, said legally, the Chief Justice of India has the power to assign cases to different judges.
 
  "If there is any personal interest for the CJI in any case, it needs to be looked into. If the allegation is that he has a personal interest in a case that he is hearing or that he has assigned the case to a bench he prefers, it should be enquired as to what is behind it. But generally speaking, the chief justice has the power to assign cases. If there was any abuse, it needs to be enquired."
 
 Though it is there in the minds of the judges (who conducted the press conference) that such abuse took place, it is not seen in the letter. When they tell the press that cases were not allotted to them but only to juniors, other judges may not agree to them, and these judges are a minority, he added. 
 
 
