KOLKATA: The second rake for the E-W Metro corridor in Kolkata will be arriving in the city by Tuesday night. The nearly 2,000 km journey from Bengaluru to Kolkata for the six trailers carrying the rake was largely uneventful unlike the first one that was detained at Kharagpur and also faced trouble while crossing the Second Vivekananda Setu into the city from National Highway 6, a   (KMRCL) official said.

 The first rake entered Kolkata on April 19 and reached the depot at   a day later. Essential software and equipment are now being incorporated into it. It shall be ready for trials soon. As soon as the second rake reaches the depot, it will also be fitted out. We will be running both rakes together from opposite directions during trials for best results. After the rakes clear trials, experts from the Research Designs and Standards Organisation (RDSO) will certify that everything is in order. Once the RDSO certification is completed, the system will be inspected by the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety (CMRS). Only then will the rakes be declared fit to start commercial services,” A K Nandy, general manager (administration), KMRCL, said.
 
  
 Meanwhile, Metro Railway is gearing up for the challenge of running, operating and supervising trains along the E-W Metro corridor after all trials and formalities are over. “Some of our staff have already opted for deputation to KMRCL and two have even joined. They will be sent to Bengaluru for training. They will train with the Bengaluru Metro as the same kind of rakes are used there. We are sure that sufficient staff can be provided to operate the trains and man stations,”   said.
 
 According to another official, the next few months will be extremely busy for the city’s Metro networks. While the three remaining rakes (to start services) from BEML for the E-W corridor are expected by July-August, Metro Railway also hopes to complete trials of the two ICF rakes and declare them fit for service by then. The rakes from Dalian in China for the existing north-south corridor will also start arriving by then provided trials of electrical and propulsion systems at Japan are successful.
 
 
