BHUBANESWAR: The state government will open a   in Puri. A team of medical staff, including a doctor and nurse, will be present at the unit 24X7 to attend to sick devotees. 

 
 Temple officials said a hospital inside the shrine was a necessity. "Stampede-like situations caused by heavy rush inside the temple are quite common. Many devotees, mostly the elderly, often fall sick within the premises of the 12th-century shrine. There have been incidents in the past of devotees dying on the way to the nearest hospital, which is three kilometre away," a temple official said.
 
 "We will soon set aside some land inside the temple to build the mini hospital. It will have two or three beds and basic facilities. Ailing devotees can get initial treatment within the temple before being referred to the district headquarters hospital," law and health minister Pratap Jena said on Tuesday. The shrine functions under the administrative control of the law department.
 
 On November 4, 2006, a stampede inside the temple killed four pilgrims and injured scores. Earlier in 1993, six devotees had died and several others injured in a stampede inside the temple during Nagarjuna Besha.
 
 In the wake of frequent attacks on devotees by some servitors, law minister Jena said efforts were being made by the temple administration and the district police to ensure the safety of visitors. On May 20, a group of servitors attacked a Thane-based IT professional, Chetan Amolkar, and misbehaved with his wife when they refused to pay dakshina. To keep an eye on errant servitors, the temple administration has installed CCTV cameras outside the sanctum sanctorum.
 
 In the wake of frequent attacks on devotees by servitors, law minister Jena said efforts were being made by the temple administration and the district police to ensure the safety of visitors. On May 20, a group of servitors assaulted Thane-based IT professional Chetan Amolkar and misbehaved with his wife when they refused to pay dakshina. To keep an eye on errant servitors, the temple administration installed CCTV cameras outside the sanctum sanctorum. 
 
 Jena said efforts were also being made to retrieve vast patches of temple land from clutches of encroachers. Sources said Lord   had around 60,418 acres in Odisha. Out of this, 33,843 acres of land had already been recorded in the name of the Jagannath Temple, while the rest is mired in legal disputes following encroachments. There are 395.25 acres of land in the name of the temple outside the state.
 
 
