GURUGRAM: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) will at last get down to business on Wednesday when its members meet for the first time, around eight months after the agency came into existence to ensure sustainable growth in the Millennium City and provide quality of life to its residents..

 Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who also holds the post of GMDA chairperson, will chair the much-awaited meeting that is likely to provide an impetus to six big-ticket infrastructure projects in Gurugram. The six projects include a medical college; a four-lane flyover, along with an underpass with a provision for a metro link, at Atul Kataria Chowk on Old Delhi-Gurugram road; and a six-lane road between Umang Bharadwaj Chowk and Dwarka Expressway.
 
 The government has nominated four prominent businessmen — DLF vice-chairman Rajiv Singh, MakeMyTrip CMD Deep Kalra, Su-Kam Power Systems MD Kunwar Sachdeva and   CMD Dr   — as members of the development authority. The four, who will mainly play an advisory role, are also likely to attend the meeting along with other ex-officio members.
 
 Sources said during the meeting, the chief minister and other GMDA members would also discuss a host of other projects — namely proposed Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited, bus depots, a common ticketing system for multi-modal transportation, a multi-speciality hospital in Sector 67, a tourist hotspot around a water body in Wazirabad and laying of Astroturf at Tau Devi Lal Sports Complex.
 
 “Various Smart City projects and IT initiatives will be taken up for discussion at the meeting,” said a GMDA official.
 
 Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh, who is an ex-officio member of GMDA, said, “After a long wait, the first meeting is finally taking place. I would like to see GMDA taking up more development projects, such as a metro line to Dwarka, on a priority basis. Also, parking is a major problem in the city and we need to focus on this issue as well,” he told TOI.
 
 On Wednesday, GMDA is also likely to constitute Residents’ Advisory Council (RAC), which will advise and provide guidance to the Authority on various development projects. With 10-15 nominated members from RWAs, civil society, labour unions and various industries including real estate, the council will also monitor implementation of the annual plan of action for infrastructure development, the mobility management plan and the plan for sustainable management of urban environment.
 
 The GMDA has been formed with an aim to develop a vision for sustained and balanced growth across Gurugram, ensure integrated and coordinated planning, infrastructure development and provision of urban amenities. Besides, it is also mandated to provide reasonable standard of living to residents and generate employment opportunities. The chief executive officer (V Umashankar) will have to prepare a report every year on GMDA’s activities and submit it to the state government for further scrutiny it the state Assembly.
 
 
