BHOPAL: A rescued python in Van Vihar and a five-year-old boy in US are coiled in a bond that will inspire wildlife lovers all over the world. Little   has adopted a rock python – becoming the first NRI play guardian to an inmate at the national park in Bhopal. He has named it Titu.

 What makes it even more touching, Vihaan Baghel broke his piggybank to adopt a snake he hasn’t even seen. In a few days, a little board will go up at Titu’s enclosure, announcing the adoption.
 
 Vihaan, born to an Indian father and American mother, lives with them in Reno, Nevada. He was always in love with wildlife. So, when he came to know from one of his uncles, an ACF with the MP forest department, that he could adopt an animal at Van Vihar, he got excited and started counting the dollars and cents in his piggybank.
 
 “He wanted to adopt a panther but didn’t have that much money in his ‘savings’. The piggybank had $150 -- enough to adopt a python or some other small animal but not a panther,” his uncle   Singh told TOI.
 
 Vihaan told TOI: “I have three piggy banks -- one for animal adoption, another for friends’ birthday gifts and the third for myself. I wanted to adopt a panther first, but when I broke my piggybank, I found I didn’t have enough. I was just as happy to adopt a python, and named him Titu.”
 
 Van Vihar director Sameeta Rajora said Vihaan has adopted Titu for a year. “Vihaan also suggested names for our other two rescued pythons -- Zap and Slinkey. We have decided to keep the names suggested by him,” she said.
 
 Vihaan says he first got interested in reptiles -- especially snakes -- after attending a reptile educational session at a museum in USA last year. He got a chance to handle and interact with several North American snakes. “I want to adopt a snake because I find their eyes to be cute. I like their scales because they are smooth and soft to touch. Also, snakes need our care and attention.”
 
 Asked why he chose a python, he said, “These pythons are special and found only in the Indian subcontinent. Also, I could not find such big snake to adopt and care for in USA.” Titu is 7-8 feet long and wears a shimmering coat of   and brown.
 
 Vihaan’s mother, Katie Baghel, said, “I believe Vihaan's strong interest in wild animals was sparked by his exposure from an early age to both wildlife reserves and outreach school programmes. Vihaan has visited many forests within   from the age of two.”
 
 Vihaan uncle, Rajnish, said, “He is very curious about reptiles. As soon as I told him about MP Tiger Foundation Society and Van Vihar, he quickly got ready to adopt the reptile.”
 
 Vihaan is due to visit his grandparents in Bhopal in February. “I will be visiting Van Vihar for sure,” he said.
 
 Titu is the fourth animal to be adopted at Van Vihar in the past year. SBI adopted tigers Panna and Gauri for Rs 2 lakh each in August 2017 and Radha Ahluwalia adopted a panther for Rs 1 lakh in November.
 
 
