MUMBAI: The Centre has granted an approval to set up a cluster university in   under the   (RUSA) programme. Colleges like Institute of Science,  , Sydenham College and Government BEd College will be part of the cluster and they will get an opportunity to get their lustre back.

 In 2015, TOI had reported about the Union HRD ministry approving a proposal for the cluster university in Colaba and a grant of Rs 55 crorebeing cleared under the 12th five-year plan. However, the Government Law College, which was part of the earlier cluster, withdrew and hence, an approval had to be sought again for the new group of colleges. Sydenham College not part of the earlier cluster has found a berth this time.
 
 This is the state’s first such venture into an interdisciplinary varsity under RUSA. Now, the institutes will break free from Mumbai University and the state will draw up a cluster university Act. 
 
 A fresh structure will be set up to define the cluster’s working, said professor Venkatesh B, RUSA national co-ordinator and TISS professor. Students will be allowed to pick courses of their choice from the units and will graduate as pass-outs of the new university.
 
 Founded in 1920 as the Royal Institute of Science, the first Indian institution dedicated to pure science and related research, the Institute of Science will act as the lead college or the headquarters of the university. Renowned scientists like  , M G K Menon, V V Narlikar and chemical technologist R D Desai are among its distinguished alumni. Housed in the magnificent Cowasji Jehangir Hall designed by George Wittet, the institute, like its neighbour Elphinstone College, has seen better days.
 
 Not too far away, Sydenham College too has been long hobbled by lack of funds and attention. While the state government had included Sydenham College in its earlier proposal for cluster university in 2015, the RUSA project approval board dropped it as the college did not have accreditation beyond 2004. “We now have our accreditation in place,” said Sydenham college principal  .
 
 The Government BEd College, located next to St Xavier’s College, too has seen a slow and painful decline. The Elphinstone College, famous for its Romanesque Transitional style building, is the oldest college of the city.
 
 The college was formally constituted in 1835 after citizens of Mumbai collected Rs 2.29 lakh to teach English language, Arts and Literature of Europe as a tribute to the departing governor of Bombay, Mountstuart Elphinstone. Classes commenced in 1836 with two professors—Arthur Bedford Orlebar (natural philosophy) and Harkness (general literature).
 
 Over time, a sort of academic torpor has set in, said many experts. With staff shortage, no academic revival, fund crunch, poor leadership and asphyxiated by the state government’s apathy, these high-wire institutes have been lost on public memory. While naysayers had written them off, the state now plans to revive their halcyon days by clubbing them into a university. Other cluster universities have been approved in Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Manipur and Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 
