MUMBAI: Yug Tuli, co-owner of Mojo’s Bistro at   will continue to remain in jail. The   on Tuesday dismissed his plea for bail in connection with the blaze at   last December which killed 14 guests while gutting the bistro and an adjoining rooftop resto-bar 1Above. Police said the December 29 fire was caused due to hookah served illegally at the roof top restaurant and patrons were suffocated to death in a toilet. Over 30 persons had suffered injuries.

 
 Tuli, 29, has been in custody since January in a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The Bombay high court had on April 27, observed that crime was grave and rejected his bail plea, prompting him to rush to the apex court.
 
 A vacation bench of Justices L   and M M Shantanagoudar on Tuesday dismissed his special leave petition (SLP) to appeal.
 
 The HC order by Justice Ajay Gadkari clearly observed that Tuli “had implied knowledge that his act of providing hookah and use of charcoal embers was likely to cause death of persons." The HC held that the prosecution rightly applied Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of Indian Penal Code and in particular 304 Part­ II (where a person has knowledge that an act may result in someone’s death) to the present crime."
 
 The SC bench heard Tuli’s counsel, former attorney general for India Mukul Rohtagi, Maharashtra government’s counsel Nishant Katneshwarkar, as well Ananya Ghosh counsel for several victims who had intervened to prevent his release, before saying that it was “not inclined to interfere with the HC order". The SC however said Tuli was at liberty to move court for bail again after three months.
 
 The HC while rejecting Tuli’s plea had perused eye-witness statements and other material on record which it said, “clearly indicates" his knowledge and refutes his claim that he had none and cannot be blamed for the fire or the tragic deaths.
 
 The HC had also observed that Tuli is a “highly influential person". It recorded the prosecution’s apprehension that if release, he may tamper with evidence.
 
 The HC had said the eye-witness statements “indicate that, even the security personnel employed by the Applicant (Tuli), were not aware of the emergency exit routes and therefore, even one of the security personnel has been found dead in the toilet. The HC said that it appears that owners of the two Restaurants “1­Above” and “Mojo's Bistro” were negligent about fire safety issues and have disregarded rules and regulations. “The evidence on record however, clearly reveals that the fire started from “Mojo's Bistro” Restaurant due to fire embers emanating from the charcoal used in Hookah," the HC order had said while observing that other major contributing factor was that the terrace covered illegally by Tuli.
 
 Staircase closed by illegal construction was inaccessible for customers and steps between the passage and outer terrace wall was used to store restaurant material, which ultimately caused a death trap for customers, the HC had observed.
 
 The court had also observed how when demolitions did take place by BMC, Tuli and co-accused   “immediately re­constructed it." On one occasion, record indicated that on August 2, 2017, demolition action was stopped midway, on telephonic orders of then Assistant Commissioner, G/South Ward, passed at the instance of the Applicant (Tuli). This shows that, he is a highly influential person, the HC had said.
 
