VISAKHAPATNAM: In an effort to improve groundwater levels and make water bodies convenient leisure places, the   (GVMC) has embarked on a mission to revamp the tanks in the newly-merged 32 villages. 

 It has already renovated or is renovating tanks in Yendada, Tunglam, Bakkannapalem, Darapalem and Nagarapalem. Now, the GVMC is planning to renovate some more tanks in the 2018-19 financial year.
 
 For example, the water tank in Tunglam, which shrunk in size and was resembling a dump yard until a few days ago, now wears an altogether new look. GVMC has desilted and deepened the water body and also removed garbage from its bed. GVMC officials also strengthened the bund of the water body alongside by laying a walking path. On the other hand, the tank in Yendada got a walker’s path and attractive lighting and benches. It has now become a recreational area for residents living in surrounding places.
 
 Many of the water tanks located in the newly-merged villages, which were once the irrigation tanks or drinking water sources, have turned into garbage dumps or sewage pools. People shifting away from the community-based tank system to individual water sources, encroachments, silt and other factors have also decreased their number or size. According to the old-timers of the city, several tanks have disappeared over the years. The inflow and outflow of these tanks has also been affected due to increased urbanisation and lack of proper urban planning.
 
 GVMC commissioner M   said they have spent nearly Rs 2.5 crore on renovation of the water tanks in Yendada, Tunglam, Bakkannapalem, Darapalem and Nagarapalem. 
 
 “The locals are very happy with the renovation of water bodies in their vicinity. We will take the project forward in 2018-19 by revamping some more tanks. It will help improve the groundwater levels and will bring other benefits. Estimates are currently being prepared for renovation of some other tanks in this financial year,” said Hari Narayanan.
 
 KVK Sudhir, a self-employed resident of Madhurawada, said renovation has totally changed the face of the water tank in Yendada. “This is a very good initiative taken up by GVMC. If all the tanks are renovated in the city, it will go a long a way in protecting these tanks from encroachers and improving ground water levels,” said Sudhir.
 
 On the other hand, the Vizag Industrial Water Supply Company is planning to optimise the water storage capacity of several tanks before completion of the Purushothapatnam Lift Irrigation Scheme on Godavari. These tanks include ‘Kondakarla Ava’ in Munagapaka, Penjeruvu and VK Sagaram tank in Rayavaram and   in Payakaraopeta.
 
