CHANDIGARH: City residents can expect uninterrupted supply of power during summer as the ministry of power has enhanced the unallocated electricity quota, which will help reduce supply losses.

 
  
 The ministry has enhanced the unallocated quota from 10% to 14%. With the increase in the unallocated quota,   electricity department will get additional 140 megawatt (MW) of power. The additional power will help the department to meet the peak-hour demand or the period of high consumer demand. The gap between the projected peak power and available power reaches maximum during the summer season. The electricity department caters to more than 2 lakh consumers with an annual energy consumption of around 1,600 million units (MU).
 
 According to official data, the Chandigarh electricity department is facing peak-hour power shortage of around 130 MW this year. The projected annual average peak demand is 496 MW, while available power is 366 MW. The peak demand in the month of April is 338 MW, while the power available during the period is 226 MW. Similarly, in May, the department would have 283 MW of power against the projected peak demand of 461 MW with a shortfall of 178 MW— the highest in the year. In June, the power available during peak hours is 366 MW against the projected demand of 489 MW. In July, 338 MW power would be available against the peak demand of 466 MW. The second highest gap —143 MW—is in the month of September. The available power is 294 MW against the projected peak demand of 437 MW.
 
 UT superintending engineer M P Singh said the additional power will be of great help to meet the peak-hour power demand. Power demand has risen in the past few years and the non-availability of additional supplies has pushed the peak-hour deficit.
 
 Chandigarh does not have its own power plant and purchases the same from Central generating stations like Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited, National Thermal Power Corporation Limited, Bhakra Beas Management Board, National Hydroelectric Power Corporation and the Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam.
 
 
