LUCKNOW: A 52-year-old woman was found murdered mysteriously in her house in   area on Saturday afternoon. The deceased, identified as Veena Mehrotra, was a senior technician in   (CDRI).

 Police suspect an insider’s role in the murder as no signs of forced entry or loot were found. Besides, the gate and doors of the house were also found locked from inside. Veena lived in a two-floor house in Aryanagar under Naka Hindola police station with her husband Rajiv Mehrotra, a businessman, daughter Shrishti, a research scholar in IITR, and son Shantanu, who is pursuing BTech from a private institute in Noida.
 
 Police said that Veena was alone in the house when the incident took place. According to police,  , brother of the deceased, informed the police about the murder around 12.45pm.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 A police team comprising SHO Naka, CO Kaiserbagh and SHO Kaiserbagh reached the house for investigation. Forensic experts and dog squad also visited the house. Later, a crime branch team also visited the house and inspected the crime scene. Rajiv, husband of the deceased, said in his statement to police that he was at his shop when his wife’s brother Gopal came suddenly and informed him that Veena was not responding to knocks and phone calls. “When I called my wife to check, her phone went unanswered. I rushed to my house. When there was no reply despite repeated calling and knocking, I decided to enter via the roof of a coaching institute next to my house,” said Rajiv in his statement to CO Kaiserbagh Amit Rai.
 
 “Veena was lying in a pool of blood in the kitchen while articles were strewn all over. A 10-foot iron pipe was also found in the bedroom,” Rajiv told police.
 
 A blood-stained knife used for cutting vegetables was recovered near the woman’s body.
 
 CO Kaiserbagh Amit Rai said that the stiffening of body shows that the murder took place sometime in the morning. Rai said that three wounds were found on the body; one was on the head, one on right wrist and the third on neck. “The wounds have been caused by the knife,” he said. “It seems the killer left via the roof and knew that the door on roof is always open,” he added.
 
 SHO Naka Parshuram Singh told TOI that prima facie it looks that the perpetrator was an acquaintance of the woman because no signs of forced entry could be seen in the house.
 
 “The gold bangles, rings and necklace of the woman were found intact. A bloodstained knife was recovered,” said Singh.
 
 A case of murder and loot was registered against unidentified persons on the basis of Rajiv’s complaint, said police. Family members said that Veena used to be at home on Saturday and Sunday. Rajiv had left for his shop which is 700 metres away from the house at 10.45am while Shrishti was at her institute, said  , wife of Rajiv’s brother.
 
 
