Gurgaon: Continuing its drive against encroachment of basement and common areas in malls, the enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning ( ) on Monday sealed five illegal stores in   in Sector 57.

 Apart from the stores, the department sealed an unauthorised maintenance office of the mall management. Encroachments by shop vendors on common areas were also removed.
 
 The drive was carried following a complaint on CM Window about irregularities and illegal encroachments at the commercial building. “We had issued a notice to the mall directing them to remove the encroachments, but they did not comply with the order,” said district town planner (enforcement)  .
 
 “Around 5 shops, as well as the mall management’s office, were sealed in the basements. Encroachments by individual shop owners in the public corridor passage near entry gates at lower ground and upper ground levels were also removed,” the official said. Assistant town planner Amit   said, “The basement area cannot be used for anything other than parking. But in most commercial buildings, illegal shops have come up in the basement.” He said at some places encroachments have come up on common areas as well. DTCP has been carrying out an anti-encroachment drive in the basements of malls for the past few months. The drive started in malls on MG Road, and later moved to   road. The drive is currently being carried out in Golf Course Road malls. 
 
 There are around 30 malls in Gurgaon, of which 24 were found to have violated the norms, with encroachments in the common areas and basements, according to a report published by DTCP in June 2017. Following the publication of the report, DTCP had issued notices to malls, and finally launched the  . Madholia said, “Basements, as per the rule, are only for parking, but most of the malls allow shops, offices and restaurants. It puts lives at risk as basements are not designed for heavy movement of people.”
 
 He added that such encroachments cause congestion in and around malls, as visitors park their vehicles on service roads. 
 
 
