Goethe could well have written an epistolary novel, The Sorrows of Young Karius, after Saturday night's Champions League final. But the tragedy encountered by Liverpool keeper Loris Karius on a floodlit Kiev night – the first sorrow coming in the form of Karim Benzema's leg coming in the way of a Karius roll-out, the second when a Gareth Bale long shot slithered out of the keeper's hands like a cricketing dropped catch into the net – holds in it an afterlife, not so much in countless action replays and the next day's headlines, but in the story of another goalkeeper.

 
 In his 2003 novel, Keeper: Haunted by the Spirit of the Game, the late Mal Peet writes about El Gato, the Cat, who, after winning the World Cup, tells his life story to Paul Faustino, “the top   writer in South America”. His story is drenched in self-doubt, hardship, as he, almost unwillingly turns into a footballer, a great goalkeeper, from a gangly youngster in a logging town at the outskirts of the great, forbidding forest.
 
 In a clearing with a goalpost - “the emerald-green regular shape of the clearing was like a mistake in the infinite forest” - El Gato, then still La Cigüeña, the Stork,learns the art of keeping goal from a shadowy ghost of a goalkeeper past. Peet's novel is also a bildungsroman, dealing with a man's formative years.
 
 In one scene, the ghost Keeper and the boy watch a jaguar chase and kill a deer. The young El Gato marvels at the terrible beauty that unfurls before them and says that what the jaguar did would be impossible for any human. “You are still very young,” replies the ghost keeper in a Jedi-tone. “What do you know about what is possible or impossible? I tell you this: you will do things that now seem impossible. They seem impossible now only because you cannot imagine them. Because you do not believe in them. But you will do them, and afterwards you will be amazed that you ever doubted yourself. Now, let me ask you that question. Which are you? Are you the jaguar or the deer?”
 
 To which El Gato tells Faustino: 'The jaguar, I said. What else could I say?'
 
 The world of fiction – whether in writing or in film – is not conducive to the Beautiful Game. It cannot be. Even most evocative description -- “He struck the ball with incredible force. It went past me with a noise like a gasp. The net bulged and hissed, and the ball rolled slowly back out of the goal past my feet” -- pales to the real thing the way, say, even Philip Larkin's sumptuous description of Thelonious Monk's “hesitant chords” in 'April in Paris' and 'Round Midnight' as “suitcases just too full to shut properly” will always fall short of the music itself.
 
 In his 2006 memoir of a young boy's obsession with football in 1950s England, Salaam Stanley Matthews, Subrata Dasgupta writes of the alchemical powers that text and image bore for him: “That early autumn, without ever having seen the man in action – not on the playing field certainly, but not even as a flickering image on the television screen, nor even as a succession of those infuriatingly jump-cut motions on the newsreel we see in cinemas – but by way of my imagination constructing and reconstructing his moves as I read about the Cup Final, by way of my gazing intently at his pictures, by way of such subterfuge,   displaced Denis Compton as my main idol.”
 
 Love through subterfuge is what it is then. By way of imagination, constructing and reconstructing the fog of football.
 
 At the heart of Moti Nandi's 1978 novel, Striker, lies the story of not just a boy's desire to play for one of the 'Calcutta big clubs', but the saga of a generational wrong being righted. Young Prasun Bhattacharya's father's career as a footballer ended when, playing with a torn cartilage, he muffed an open goal in the IFA Shield Final against  , and left in disgrace with rumours about him being bribed never dispelled. The novel opens with Prasun dreaming of the manager of Santos, the Brazilian club -- “'Pele who?' father asked sternly. 'Where does he live?' -- coming to the Bhattacharya household to sign him up. What follows is the struggle – it's a Bengali novel after all –to dispel the Original Sin through footballing redemption.
 
 Football novels like Striker – and its sequel, Stopper – do contain much 'match action'. It is inevitable, but it is relatively boring. It's the saga around the game, the trials and tribulations, the joy and the despair of player or fan that gives fictional accounts of football its kick – whether in Danny Cannon's 2005 cautionary tale-film, Goal!: The Dream Begins, or in Nick Hornby's 1992 Fever Pitch (“I fell in love with football as I was later to fall in love with women: suddenly, inexplicably, uncritically, giving no thought to the pain or the disruption it would bring with it”).
 
 In Manu Sen's 1976 comedy, Mohun Baganer Mey (The Mohun Bagan Girl), a football-obssessed father and son are arch-enemies when it comes to their support football clubs. Enter Nita, who enters this Montague-Capulet household, pretending to be a Mohun Bagan fan only so that her Mohun Bagan-loving prospective father-in-law Mahadeb-babu approves of the marriage to his East Bengal-loving son, Sujit. And if there is one thing that Mahadeb-babu hates more than he loves Mohun Bagan, it is lies. And therein, lies this net-enmeshed comedy of enforced errors.
 
 The world of football is not just about football. As Eduardo Galeano wrote in his 1995 El Futból a Sol y Sombra (Soccer in Sun and Shadow) about one goalkeeper of the University of Algiers football team: “[Albert Camus] also learned to win without feeling like God and to lose without feeling like rubbish, skills not easily acquired, and e learned to unravel several mysteries of the human soul, whose labyrinths he explored later on in a dangerous journey on the page.” Football in fiction is a page out of – and outside of -- that very footballing book.
 
