KOLKATA: The Association of Corporate Advisers & Executives, Kolkata and The Economic Times will on Friday celebrate the success of organizations and individuals for their outstanding contributions to society at the  .

  
 State commerce and industries minister Amit Mitra will be the guest of honour this year.
 
 “It inspires others to reconsider their policies towards societal good and create ‘corporate leaders’ from Bengal, who shall set the benchmark for the nation as a whole,” an organizer of the annual event said.
 
 The categories for participation for this year’s award are best financial performance, fastest-growing company, highest job creator, innovation in business, best CSR idea, lifetime award for a leading industrialist and the visionary award. This time, as many as 322 companies participated in various categories. Out of these, 165 are listed companies, while 143 are unlisted. The main jury members are Infosys co-founder and current chairman of   V Mohandas Pai, Deloitte chairman P Ramesh, Ashok Banerjee of IIM Calcutta, Pulak Ghosh of Centre for Public Policy and ET Kolkata resident editor  .
 
 Last year, chairman of Advenz group   got the lifetime achievement award, while K M Birla bagged the visionary award. R S Agarwal and R S Goenka, founder duo of the Emami group, clinched the lifetime achievement award in 2016. In 2015, B M Khaitan received the lifetime achievement award. In 2014, B K Birla received the lifetime achievement award, while R P Goenka bagged it in the first edition. The Indian visionary business award category was initiated in 2015 and was awarded to ITC chairman Y C Deveshwar. In 2016, it was conferred on P R S Oberoi, chairman of EIH Limited.
 
 The sponsors of the award night are Smartworks, SKM Group, Salarpuria Sattva Group, Manyavar, Himadri Speciality Chemical Ltd, Bengal Energy, Anmol Industries, Anjali Jewellers, AKA Logistics Pvt Ltd. Cherry Tree is the event partner for ETBCA. The Association of Corporate Advisers & Executives, one of the principal organizers, was formed as a society in 1960 by 30 founder members with the main objective of providing a common forum for persons engaged in or interested in corporate laws, taxation, audit, accounts and the likes. Its headcount has crossed 1,000 now.
 
 Deloitte is the knowledge partner for this event while   is the legal partner.
 
