JAIPUR: Negligence of the   in resolving the dispute of over collection of fire cess between the   (JMC) and   (JDA) has seriously affected the working of the fire department.

 The JMC has expressed it helplessness in strengthening the fire wing due to paucity of funds. In November 2017, city mayor Ashok Lahoti had written a letter and demanded the state government to direct JDA to deposit the cess amount in JMC’s account. However, the JDA has not transferred the money to the account till date.
 
 According to JMC official, they had demanded nearly Rs 32 crore from JDA, which levied Rs 100 per sq metre as fire cess from owners of buildings that were above 15 feet. Despite directions from the urban development and housing (UDH) minister Srichand Kriplani, funds have not been transferred till date.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Kriplani said, “I have directed the JDC to transfer fire cess funds. It’s being processed. Funds will be transferred at the earliest to strengthen the fire department.”
 
 However, a senior UDH official said, “The JDA is itself in a financial crisis. The assurance to transfer the money has been given on auctioning properties.”
 
 Meanwhile, infrastructure and equipment of the fire cell is in urgent need pf repair. The annual budget of the fire wing is Rs 3 crore, which only takes care of the salaries of personnel. Many fire tenders are more than 10 years old and require major repairs.
 
 “From 2013, the chassis of 10 new fire tenders are ready. But the JMC does not have funds to mount the body. This requires nearly Rs 4 crore,” an official said.
 
 “As per norms, a fire tender should be disposed either after 10 years or after running 1 lakh kilometres. But, the JMC is not in a position to replace old fire tenders with new ones. Also, the proposal to buy motorcycles with water tanks to fight fire in narrow lanes of the Walled City is gathering dust due to lack of funds,” he said.
 
 The JMC has not only failed to maintain its existing infrastructure, but also done little to impart training to firemen due to fund shortage. “The last recruitment of firemen was in 2014. A mandatory training was given to them during induction. Since then, no training programme has been conducted. Similarly, firefighters, who were appointed a decade ago, are still awaiting hi-tech training,” the source added.
 
 
