BENGALURU: The   are yet to be announced and no final date has been notified by the   (KEA). 

 Officials said the results are usually announced by the higher education minister every year and this time, they’re waiting for a minister to take charge and announce the results.
 
 “We’ve sent a proposal to the government to allow the secretary of the higher education department to announce this year’s CET result and are awaiting the government’s approval. We’ll be able to notify a date for the release of the result in a day or two,” said S N Gangadharaiah, administrative officer, KEA.
 
 The higher education secretary did not respond to messages and calls.
 
 Earlier, officials were quoted as saying that the results will be announced on May 30, like it had been done last year and later postponed it to June 1. However, there has been no confirmation of the dates.
 
 CET was held on April 18 and 19 this year and Kannada language test was held on April 20, only for Haranadu and Gadinadu Kannadiga candidates. 
 
 Given that there is no full-fledged cabinet and no portfolio has been allocated, chief minister H D Kumaraswamy is in charge of the higher education ministry.
 
 However, sources in the chief minister’s office said they are unaware of the matter and the higher education department officials are yet to approach him.
 
 The uncertainty over the CET results date is taking a toll on students. The problem has been compounded by the fact that the results of ComedK UGET, the gateway to admission to private engineering colleges, are already out.
 
 “Our family was eagerly waiting for the result, but then it has got delayed just like CBSE results,” said Abhi R, who has appeared for the CET. He said if the CET results don't come out soon, it will hinder students from exercising other options like ComedK to land seats in engineering colleges. 
 
 “A couple of my friends had come home to check their results also, but we are all disappointed beacuse of the delay. All the merit seats will get blocked and it will affect our future,” rued Sudharshan, a student.
 
 
