It seems like Delhiites will have to jump through hoops to get their   now – or at least drive around in loops. With the capital’s first automated   centre at   seeing a failure of more than 50%, getting a permanent driving licence has become quite difficult for   residents.
In a change from the earlier test format – applicants just had to drive the car on the road – the test now includes driving on circular tracks, parallel parking and reversing around corners. Plus, there’s an additional criteria of applicants being allowed to make just one mistake. On a recent visit to the automated driving test centre, the applicants tell us that their performance anxiety before this driving test is even worse than what they felt when appearing for Board exams.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 It’s 9am and there’s already a long queue outside the centre. The transport department officials, however, say, “It’s comparatively a shorter queue. Earlier, approximately 300 applicants used to come every day for driving tests, now the number has come down to 120-150 and not even 50 people manage to clear it.”
 One of the applicants, Apporva, a hotel management student, says, “I am really nervous, it looks difficult.” A 40-year-old applicant, whose husband is giving her tips to clear the test in the first attempt, says, “I feel like a student who’s appearing for Boards and this paper slip is my admit card.” 
 Meanwhile, another applicant, Anamika, who works in an IT firm in Gurgaon and was called for her test 30 minutes ago, returns dejected. “I realised that I won’t be able to clear it when I was unable to reverse. This test is really difficult. I will come prepared next week,” she tells us. On hearing this, another applicant gets really nervous, and leaves before taking the test. Some even get out of their car in the middle of the test, claiming, ‘Mujhse nahin hoga!’ 
 
  
  
 An inspector tells us, “There are too many applicants who just quit the test midway. Log road pe rule follow nahi karte hain, aur jab yahan follow karne ko bola jata hai toh gaadi se utar jate hain!” 
 The test centre comes under the Sheikh Sarai RTO zone, which covers most of south Delhi. In Delhi, there are 13 RTO zones and each has its own test centre. An applicant needs to apply at the centre designated for his area. At present, only applicants from south Delhi have to appear at the new automated driving test centre. The transport department officials are however hopeful that after the other 11 automated test centres open, Delhi’s new drivers will be more skilled and will follow rules. The other test centres will come up at Hauz Khas, Burari, Jharoda Kalan, Dwarka,  , Pratap Nagar, Surajmal Vihar, Loni Border, Rohini, Raja Garden and Shakur Basti by the end of this year.
 
  
  The new test centre has made acquiring a driving licence a much more difficult task
 
 
 
 With such a high failure rate, the test centre gets many applicants who refuse to accept that they failed because of their own fault. And then there are those who are dismissive of the whole process. 
 A man in his mid fifties asks an inspector to give him clearance without much ‘drama’. He asks the inspector, “Kya naya natak hai yeh? Aap thoda ghumane ko bol do, aage peechhe kar ke dikha dunga. Yeh gol ghoomna zaroori hai? Ab kya tees saal gaadi chalane ke baad main driving school jaoon?” Clearly not impressed, the inspector responds, “Ab woh aap dekh lijiye.”
 The inspector tells us, “It’s a common reaction. But the best part of this test is that once an applicant is on the track, he is alone. There’s no interference from parents and friends who come for moral support. Jab road pe test hota hai toh sab aa jate hain bolne ki isne theek kiya tha, kara do pass.” 
 Another inspector says, “Logon ko reverse karna nahin aata, parallel parking nahi aati. People can drive straight, but most applicants fail when asked to reverse. They even drive over the barricades. People usually give the car to an attendant for parking, so they never bother to actually learn. Log kehte hain ‘maine gaadi reverse kari hi nahi kabhi’! Ab aise gaadi kaise chalaoge?”
 
  
  
 
 
 Each day, not even 50 applicants out of 120 are able to clear the test. So what’s the secret of clearing this new test? “Learn to drive properly,” says an inspector. They say that after the initial trauma of the new system is over, most applicants can clear it in their third or fourth attempt.
 If an applicant fails the driving test, he/she can appear for the test again after a week. Ghazal Abdullah, a DU student, is quite sure that she has flunked her test again in her third attempt. When she finally finds out that she has actually passed, she is in disbelief. She keeps asking, “It’s my third attempt. Aap log mazak to nahi kar rahe na? It’s like a lifetime achievement for me!”
 
  
  NEW HURDLES: Candidates at the driving test centre in Sarai Kale Khan
 
  
 
