BHOPAL:   high court on Monday granted interim relief to a realty firm, restraining the   (BMC) from “taking any coercive action” against them regarding cancellation of completion certificate issued by the   with respect to their residential colony.

 The high court has also issued a show cause notice to the BMC asking under what provision of law, power and authority, they cancelled the duly issued completion certificate in favour of any private builder. BMC has been asked to reply within 4 weeks.
 
 The builder had approached the   challenging the show-cause notice issued to them in January 2018 proposing cancellation of the various completion certificates issued to them, under Rule 25 of Bhumi Vikas Rules 2012.
 
 The petitioner was represented by advocate Siddharth Radhelal Gupta, who questioned the authority and jurisdiction of BMC in issuing the show cause notices proposing cancellation of building permissions issued by the corporation.
 
 The corporation issues completion certificate u/s 301 of the Municipal Corporation Act 1956, on completion of any building of any colony, which is also referable to Rule 102 of the BVR 2012.
 
 After eight-nine months of issuance of completion certificate by the corporation, the BMC through its departmental order passed in December 2017 constituted zone-wise committees for undertaking physical inspection and verification exercise of completed colonies in Bhopal. This was followed by issuance of show cause notices to various builders, around 40 in number, through which the corporation proposed to cancel their building permissions, for incomplete and deficient works in their colonies.
 
 Aggrieved, M/s Ramayan Builders approached the high court, challenging the validity of the show cause notices issued by the corporation. Counsel for the petitioner   contended that nowhere under the provision of the Municipal Corporation Act or Bhumi Vikas Rules is there any power or authority to initiate process of cancellation of completion certificate, duly issued by it, available to the Corporation.
 
