INDORE: Indore’s forest department has also started gearing up for All India  , which is held every four years. Choral, Manpur, Nahar   of   zone and other areas in Dewas, Jhabua and Ujjain will be earmarked for the exercise which will be held in the first week of February. 

 A   camp on the process of estimation began at Ralamandal on Monday for forest guards and on the field staff. On Tuesday, a practical session will also be conducted for the trainees at Ralamandal.
 
 The census will be held in four segments divided geographically, and Indore zone’s census will be done in the first segment. The process of counting tigers has further been divided into three phases. The first phase will measure carnivore sign, prey abundance and habitat indices and human disturbances. The second phase will mark human footprint and landscape and habitat indices. The last phase will include camera trap marks recapture. 
 
 According to forest department officials, the census will begin in Indore on February 5 and will continue for six days. The officials have forwarded an estimate of the quantities of each instrument, including compass, range finders, GPS and trap cameras, required to conduct the census. The estimation has been sent to Satpura Tiger Reserve, where the meeting of senior forest officials of all districts on the east of Hoshangabad was held. A similar meeting was held on Thursday at the Kanha national park, where the officials from the state’s western districts were briefed about the tiger estimation.
 
 “This year the All India Tiger Estimation, which is done by the Wildlife Institute of India, will be performed using an android application, called the Monitoring System for Tiger-Intensive Protection and Ecological Status (M-STrIPES).While it has not been made compulsory, those areas which have network connectivity can use this facility,” said DFO RP Rai. 
 
 The areas around Indore, where the preparations for the tiger census have begun, include Dewas, Ujjain and Jhabua. 
 
 
