NAGPUR: Women’s contribution to politics in India is far from what their counterparts in the world have made. However, of late, women occupying the seat of power in the country is a good sign, said Sushma Yadav, former pro vice-chancellor of Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou), on Saturday. 

 Addressing a daylong seminar on ‘Women and youth participation in democratic process in India’, organized by the department of political science of   at Gramgeeta Bhavan, Yadav lamented that “The country had women president, prime minister, speakers and ministers, but they refrained from taking revolutionary decisions maybe because they wanted to survive politically. On most occasions, they did not have a significant role to play in decision-making.” 
 
 She criticized the   for taking democracy for granted, but, at the same time, expressed happiness that their participation for the national cause has increased. She lauded Prime Minister   and the   for taking progressive decisions and giving fair representation to women in the union cabinet. 
 
 In his address,  , director of Centre for Studies in Developing Societies, Delhi, spoke on electoral politics in detail and the role of women and youths as voters, candidates, and also representative of people in the Parliament. General elections in 2014 were path-breaking as more number of youths were involved in the process, he said.
 
 Kumar cited media exposure, liberalized outlook towards women and charismatic appeal of Modi to youths during electioneering as the major reasons behind these two segments of the society showing greater interest in politics and exercising their franchise that turned the tide. Kumar, who is an expert in survey and research, gave statistical proofs to back his statements for better understanding.
 
 Making the opening remarks, Vikas Jambhulkar, assistant professor of the department, said, “It is a wrong notion in the minds of people that democratic process includes only elections. One must understand that elections are only an important part and there are more elements to it that need to be discussed. We are specifically discussing the contribution of women and youths today as they were generally found to be neglected. Their role seems to be only that of a vote bank.”
 
 He opined that the youths are ignorant as they are considered to be impulsive and therefore not seen during decision-making procedure.
 
 Mohan Kashikar, head of the political science department, was present.
 
 The inaugural ceremony was followed by technical sessions in which students and teachers from various colleges expressed their views. Certificates were distributed while an alumni meet of the department was also held.
 
 
