JAIPUR: For the first time in three decades, the   conducted recruitment exam for non-teaching staff on Monday. The vacancies were announced last year. Though the recruitments were being made after so many years, the university advertised for just 169 posts as compared to the requirement of more than 870 persons.

 The last non-teaching staff recruitment was held in Rajasthan University in 1984 and since then the university is working with help of temporary workers. Around 1,000 temporary staff in the University are working on minimal pay of Rs 5000 - Rs 7000 a month and many are working for more than 10 years who are now automatically age barred in the exam.
 
 The registrar of the   agreed and said that more recruitment should be done to fill the vacant posts and temporary staff should be given salary at par with permanent staff as per the guidelines of the  . “I am in favour of this and there are around 463 sanctioned posts by the government but I feel the people working here for many years should be given preference. There should be given an increment of salary every year as done for the permanent employees as the work is equal,” said Dhanka.
 
 The   in a judgement given in 2016 said that contractual/temporary employees should be given salaries and benefits at par with the permanent workers. However, this has not been followed in the university.
 
 Vinay Kumar (name changed) has been working in the University for five years for a salary of Rs 5000 as a computer operator. He told TOI that there are no jobs in the government, so they have to work in this pay to run their household. “I am doing two part time jobs after this to sustain myself. In my minimal salary I have to work full time as required by the permanent employee. The University doesn’t keep our records as it is kept by the agency that was given tender to hire us. So, we can’t even go to court without any evidence. Even if we demand salary hike we are threatened of being removed. So, we all were waiting for the vacancies from the University but with such less number of seats announced the contractual workers will still remain on lower pay.”
 
 
