PANAJI: The high court of Bombay at Goa directed the chief secretary to hold a meeting with all officers concerned within 15 days to chalk out a comprehensive plan for the safety of mines that have been closed.

 Terming the safety situation of the mines serious, the two-judge bench of justices N M   and   in their 115-page order said: “The state government has simply thrown up its hand stating that it does not have the machinery, equipment or personnel to take care of the mines. We do not have satisfactory answer from the state as to how it is going to enforce the directions given to the   lease holders if they failed to take the measures as directed.”
 
 But the court also said that it could not direct the state government to dismantle the existing safety measures that the latter has put in place, “as we do not have any credible data and viable alternative solution placed before us. We simply cannot dismantle the current measures, though unsatisfactory, for lack of any better alternative.”
 
 Both, the director of mines and the   have said it is the state government’s responsibility to maintain safety of mines, while the state has said it doesn’t have the requisite manpower or the expertise to handle it. The state government has given the task of ensuring the safety of mines to the lease holders and has asked them to abide by the directions of the director of mines and geology.
 
 “We do feel that the present arrangement of directing the mining lease holders to carry out safety measure during monsoon is fraught with various perils,” the court said.
 
 With no clear plan in place, it directed the chief secretary to hold a meeting with senior officers from police, forest and revenue departments and take collective decision. 
 
 “We trust and hope that the collective wisdom of these officers will be able to find a suitable solution and the mechanism for the issue of the safety of mines, which might reach proportions if not attended to during the oncoming monsoon. Money from the sale of the ore can be used for safety operations,” the court said.
 
 
