HYDERABAD: In a clear about-turn, the government is now pitching for flyovers instead of alternative roads to overcome the mess that would arise once the Gough Road is made out of bounds for lakhs of commuters in Secunderabad Cantonment area from June 1.

 
  
  
 
 After chairing a high-level meeting at   on Friday, chief secretary SK Joshi asked a special committee, which was set up to study the feasibility of construction of flyovers instead of alternative roads, to submit a detailed report within 15 days. The special committee comprises R&B engineer-in-chief C Ravinder Rao, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation chief engineer   and   commandant  .
 
 Initially, the government had proposed two alternative roads — Safilguda railway gate to Entrenchment Road and Safilguda level crossing to RK Puram road overbridge — in lieu of closure of Gough Road and sought 34-acre defence land. Sources attributed the change of heart on the part of the state government to the inordinate delay in getting the defence land from the ministry of defence. As per the deadline, Gough Road will be open till May 31.
 
 Sources said the government is also worried that the alternative roads proposal will also get stuck and commuters will be put to hardships and hence proposed the flyovers an alternative. GOC, Telangana and Andhra Sub-Area, Maj Gen N Srinivasa Rao said: “We have extended the deadline several times and hope to clinch an amicable solution on the Gough Road.”
 
 Apart from Maj Gen Srinivasa Rao, president of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) Brig MD Upadhyay, AOC commandant Brig PK Sharma, CEO of   SVR Chandrasekhar and defence estates officer PB Nair were present at the meeting. Principal secretary (transport) Sunil Sharma and senior officials from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation were also present.
 
 Meanwhile, Joshi set up another committee to prepare a layout on the proposed firing range at Jawaharnagar. The government had zeroed in on Jawaharnagar for the firing range spread over 500 acres to the military authority in lieu of the defence land for constructing the alternative roads. Medchal joint collector, defence estate officer and Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority chief general manager Anand Mohan are members of this committee.
 
