RAJKOT: Two complaints against moneylenders were lodged on Thursday night following which five persons were arrested on Friday. 

 In the first case, Mayank Modi (39), husband of deputy mamlatdar of Tankara taluka seva sadan Heena Modi, lodged a complaint against three persons. Mayank, a resident of Shethnagar on   in Rajkot, has accused Raju Lawadia, a resident of   in Rajkot, Ajay Khimaniya, a resident of Viradavajadi village of Lodhika taluka in Rajkot district, and Nirmal Mehta, a resident of Sagar Society in Rajkot, of thrashing him and forcing him to sign blank cheques. 
 
 “Mayank also accused the trio of making him sign the ownership documents of his office in their name, usurping two SUVs and demanding Rs 1 crore. Mayank had taken Rs 75 lakh from Lawadia and had paid Rs 21 lakh to Lawadia in six months. Lawadia and his two partners — Khimaniya and Mehta — were arrested on Friday,” an official from University police station, where the case in this connection has been registered, said. 
 
 In the second incident, Ramesh Ajani (55), a resident of Gauridal village of Rajkot taluka, accused Arun Ajani, his wife Ila Ajani, both residents of Gauridal area in Rajkot, and Hardik Udhad, a resident of 150-feet Ring Road in Rajkot, of usurping silver jewellery weighing 2 kg for the recovery of interest on Rs 11 lakh credit his son Rasik Ajani had taken on 5% interest. 
 
 “Rasik had paid Rs 14 lakh in 25 months. Yet, Arun and Ila had forced him to sign three blank cheques of Rs 11 lakh. Hardik, who had given Rs 14lakh to Rasik on credit, usurped 2kg silver from Rasik. Rasik had already paid Hardik Rs 28 lakh in two years,” an official from Kuvadawa Road police station said. 
 
 Arun and Hardik were arrested on Friday, while Ila is yet to be arrested.
 
 It is noteworthy that Rajkot city police commissioner   had launched a drive against moneylenders and held two lok darbars (public meetings) last Saturday. After this 18 offences were registered against moneylenders, of whom 12 have been arrested so far.
 
 
