GURUGRAM: They won their fourth   across formats earlier this year but years of success haven’t changed much for the Indian   team. They still don’t have their own stadium to practise, for instance. 

 In a country where cricket is revered, this team couldn’t have done more, having won the ODI World Cup twice — in 2014 and 2018 — and the T20 World Cup in 2012 and 2017. It also won the 2016 Asia Cup. Despite bringing the accolades, they don’t get a salary as they haven’t been recognised by the Indian cricket board yet.
 
 On Saturday, the team took on able-bodied players during a friendly match in Gurgaon. The noted players who took part in the match included national team players Zeeshan Haidar, Mahantesh GK, Shailender Yadav and  .
 
 Though it’s not easy for them to play cricket, their determination and passion for the game have taken them far. Speaking about the challenges that   face,  , captain of the Uttar Pradesh state team and a member of the national team, told TOI: “We don’t have a stadium to train in the first place. In case of any injuries, there is no medical help available. We have to meet the expe-nses on our own even while playing at the national level. The sport needs a lot of support from the government and sponsors.”
 
 In the Diwali of 2004, a firecracker rocket hit Deepak Malik’s right eye, after which he lost his eyesight. Today, the Sonipat resident is the fastest blind bowler in the world. He also holds the record for the fastest 50 — off just 17 balls — in the ODI World Cup semiﬁnal against Sri Lanka in 2014, said  , head coach of the national team. 
 
 The talented player also scored an unbeaten 179 off 103 balls as India beat Sri Lanka by six wickets in the opening match of the 2018 World Cup, David shared. “But our lives haven’t changed after winning the World Cup, no one pays attention to us. We are simply not taken seriously. Most of the time, we have to book stadiums on our own money,” Malik said.
 
 The team also doesn’t have a doctor on the ground in case of injuries during a match. “When we get injured, we take care of each other,” Malik added.
 
 Rambir Singh, another player from Sonipat who is part of the national team, said, “The message which we want to send to the world is that give us our due. Recognise blind cricket. Give us facilities and don’t treat us as second-class citizens.”
 
 The rules for blind cricket are slightly different, keeping the players in mind. “All players are not fully blind. The ball is filled with ball bearings so that it can be heard by the fully blind batsmen and fielders. The bowling is always underarm, and the bowler shouts ‘Ready?’ before releasing the ball, to which the batsman must respond by saying ‘Yes’. We have appealed to the BCCI to take blind cricket under its umbrella,” David said.
 
 
