KOLKATA: St Xavier’s University Kolkata’s Vision 2025 plan envisages setting up a law school run by the Jesuits, a sports complex, beginning of research programmes, seeking another 10 acres from the state to expand the existing New Town campus, starting a community college and extending affiliation to the seven colleges running under St Xavier’s. The work on this plan will start this May, with the St Xavier’s Management School offering MBA on the lines of   (XIMB) and   School of Management (XLRI).

 “We are ready to begin admissions to the management school for the 2018-2019 academic session with an intake capacity of 120 candidates,” said university vice-chancellor Fr Felix Raj, adding: “We shall offer specialisation in four management subjects — marketing, HR, finance and systems. Since this is the first year, admissions will be based on the scores from XAT, CAT and GMAT. It will be a full-time, two-year residential course so that students are on campus as visiting faculty may take classes in the evening. Everyone will be able to avail the library facilities and extension lectures can be held.” The management development programmes will be associated with MBA.
 
 On May 21, the VC is also set to visit alumnus Laxmi Mittal in London to discuss development of the campus.
 
 Next on the list is to introduce the Xavier’s Law school and a sports academy. “We should also be ready enough to start few new campuses within the state which will be extensions of St Xavier’s University, Kolkata,” he added.
 
 The VC is also preparing a proposal to submit to chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting another 10 acres. “Seventeen acres isn’t enough as we plan to give back even more to the students of Bengal. We have planned to request the government for land within New Town,” he said.
 
 Expansion of the university will mean affiliating institutes, including the seven established UG and PG colleges in Raghabpur, Darjeeling, Siliguri, Asansol, Burdwan, Kolkata and  . “We shall only offer academic affiliation of campuses,” the vice-chancellor clarified.
 
 Research programmes in various faculties will also be introduced and a community college will be started that will offer job-oriented courses for the local youth. “It will offer certificate courses of six months and year-long diploma courses,” he added.
 
 “The sports academy will offer courses in UG and PG, and also research in several related disciplines. The big tournaments in sports are fast emerging as entertainment areas that require trained managers to run the shows. Now, many students are opting to study abroad. We want them to train here with world-class facilities,” Fr Felix Raj added.
 
