In what could be an indication of poor upkeep of facilities at Arignar Anna Zoological Park, colloquially called   zoo, a study has revealed that infestation of parasites like mites and ticks is higher among animals in enclosures compared to those roaming freely on the 1,500-acre premises.

 Two zoo- logists from  , in the study, examined 412 mammals in the zoo for a year. They found that the prevalence of mites and ticks among caged animals was more compared to those in habitats that allow them to move freely. Their findings were published recently in peer-reviewed   in Life Sciences.
 
 The finding, researchers said, was incidental. “Our main aim was to find the diversity of ectoparasites (parasites that live on the exterior of the host) among captive animals,” said   C, assistant professor in the zoology department at the university, a co-author of the study. Armed with fine-toothed combs, Gunasekaran and fellow researcher   --with the aid of animal handlers -- collected fleas, ticks, mites and lice from the mammals.
 
 The duo found 13 different species of mites, 10 species of ticks, five flea species and four types of lice.
 
 The animals surveyed included giraffe, elephant, the nocturnal Asian palm civet, jackal, four species of deer and two species of monkey. Ectoparasites were widely distributed in different parts of the host body like the ear, neck, tail, udder, groin and anal region.
 
 The presence of parasites results in significant blood loss, secondary infestations, severe skin itching and, in rare cases, premature death. Ticks in particular cause life-threatening illnesses in humans and animals. In some instances, infected animals may resort to self-wounding especially when these parasites are present in high density.
 
 Experts say it is unlikely these parasites could affect visitors as interaction is restricted. “But workers who enter these enclosures must be periodically checked as some of these parasites can thrive both on animals and humans,” said Moses Inbaraj, head of the zoology department at  . These parasites can be lodged on the handler’s foot, hand, other parts of the skin and hair, he said.
 
 Gunasekaran said the sanitation within the enclosures was only one of the contributing factors for high infestation. “Our aim was not to find fault with zoo authorities,” he said. “We only want to highlight the prevalence of these ectoparasites among the animals and the dangers they could pose,” he said. The infestation, he said could also be attributed to higher temperature, wet or moist conditions that could favour the survival and reproduction of parasites.
 
 Zoo authorities said they were surprised by the finding. “Parasite infestation is very minimal. We clean the enclosures at least once in two months and have a multi-pronged approach to disinfest animals,” an official said.
 
 
