BENGALURU: Remember  , the wild elephant which died in December 2016 after sustaining a fracture in its leg? Even today, wildlife activists feel timely treatment could have saved the jumbo. 

 Sidda is not alone. Tens of wild elephants stray out of Karnataka’s forests, sustaining injuries in the process and die an agonising death in the absence of timely medical help. There are elephants rescued from temples, circus etc, which could be disease prone and cannot be sent to camps directly without proper treatment. To rescue and rehabilitate such jumbos, the forest department will open a dedicated elephant rescue centre at Doddaharive reserve forest off Periyapatna in   district within three months. 
 
 Spread over more than 100 acres, the campus will be equipped to provide medical aid to injured elephants and rehabilitate rescued ones. Forest officials say it’ll be the first such camp in South India.
 
 Manoj Kumar, chief conservator of forests (Project Elephant), said the long-pending project is awaiting final approval from the   (CZA). “As we have received in-principal approval from the CZA, basic infrastructure like solar fencing, crawls for elephants and accommodation for mahouts have been readied. Five rescued elephants, including three from a circus and two from Hassan, which were victims of conflict, have been housed there for the time being,” he added.
 
 Another official from the forest department said once the centre starts full-fledged operations, it’d help reduce pressure on existing elephant camps. “The rehab centre will have large sheds for elephants, ponds and tubewells. All the facilities will comply with the guidelines prescribed under Section 38H of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972,” he added.
 
 According to last year’s census, Karnataka has the highest number of elephants (6,049) in the country, followed by Assam (5,719) and Kerala (3,054). Currently, the state forest department has 10 camps that house around 100 elephants, and these facilities are clearly overcrowded.
 
 
 
 
 India’s first elephant rescue centre came up at Bansantour forest in Haryana in 2007. Bansantour forest is a natural habitat for elephants, where fodder is available in plenty. It is equipped with sheds and water tanks where aged, ill and injured elephants are sheltered.
 
 
