NEW DELHI: The   is only now in the process of   a   to   and specify technical details on how it may   1,000 electric buses. In a statement on Friday, it refuted that it had submitted a detailed proposal on buying electric buses as mentioned by the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority ( ) while advising the court against clearing Delhi’s current proposal to use the accumulated   charge   to procure the vehicles. 

 
 “Delhi government has so far only submitted an affidavit to the Supreme Court outlining various projects for that it will be using the ECC funds for. Neither did the Hon’ble Court ask for a detailed proposal nor did the Delhi government give any detailed proposal…further Delhi government has not even stated so far that full technical detailing is complete to implement the project,” Friday’s statement said.
 
 After the Supreme Court directed it on May 9 to respond to the intervention application filed by Delhi government regarding the use of Rs 999 crore collected as environmental compensation charge from trucks, EPCA told the court it supported the idea of such a use of the accumulated fund, but pointed out that Delhi government appeared not to have done sufficient research for its proposal. It also expressed wariness about the government’s track record, given it has made announcements and budget allocation for procuring CNG buses since 2014-15 but had not purchase the required number of buses in the same year, leading to lapsing of funds or their use elsewhere.
 
 To this, the state government retorted with, “We are in the advanced stages of procuring 2,000 CNG buses. This, however, has nothing to do with its plans to induct  ,000 e-buses which is a separate project. Rather than casting aspersions on the government's ability to carry out its plans, the individuals concerned should have done their own job first of clearly informing the Hon’ble Supreme Court if they are in favour of replacing CNG bus fleet with electric buses and if this project can be supported by ECC funds.”
 
 EPCA had also pointed out that the model of the electric bus Delhi wants to purchase cost around Rs 1.75 crore to Bengaluru, but was budgeted for at Rs 2.5 crore by Delhi. The government’s statement clarified, “Rs 2.5 crore is only the upper limit of the capital cost of low-floor electric buses. Eventually, any procurement will be done through competitive bidding, so it is a moot point to debate about costs at this stage…besides, Delhi government is not planning to buy the buses. It has clearly indicated in its budget speech and its affidavit to the Hon’ble Supreme Court that it will engage these buses under Gross Cost Contract or Cluster model, where it will pay only as per use on a rupees-per-km rate.”
 
 EPCA had noted that Delhi’s expectation of financial assistance from the Union heavy industries ministry had fallen through. The state government, in its application, had suggested that it could get Rs 40 crore for 40 electric buses under the ministry’s FAME (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India) scheme. In addition, it would also get a subsidy of Rs 4 crore from the ministry for infrastructure development. 
 
 The transport minister had requested an identical subsidy for the remaining 960 buses under FAME. However, EPCA said, it had been informed by the ministry that in the current phase/ budget, the funding for 40 buses was not available since Delhi government had not followed up with the required details of the proposal, and the FAME funds had been earmarked for other cities.
 
 
