JAIPUR: Despite Rajasthan High Court’s order, a transgender has not been given posting by the state police. Now, contempt notices have been issued to home department secretary, director general of police (DGP) and superintendent of police (Jalore) on the petition filed by transgender   on Tuesday.

 Twenty five-year-old Kumari is the only transgender of the state who had cleared examination for constable post. 
 
 “I do not know why I have not been given posting despite HC order. I have qualified all the tests required for getting the post of constable in state police. Now, the court has issued notices hearing my contempt petition to respondents,” said Kumari. 
 
 Kumari had filed the contempt petition in the  's Jodhpur bench alleging that the state government had failed to appoint her, thus flouting the court's earlier order.
 
 Ganga had filed the contempt petition on January 5 in an order by the HC passed on November 13, 2017, directing the government to give the appointment letter to the petitioner by December 31, 2017. In the same order, the court had ordered that if the government doesn't give job to the petitioner by December 31, then from January 1, 2018, she would be entitled to all the emoluments like salary, dearness allowance etc.
 
 Kumari said, “I met all top police officers and government officials in two years requesting for my posting. Since, nothing was done, I knocked on the door of the court in December, 2016.” 
 
 Now, Ganga has decided to serve the notice to the respondents personally. “There are two ways of serving the notice. One is that the court itself sends the notice. Second is that the petitioner himself or herself serve the notice passed by the court to the respondent. Since Ganga wanted to save time, she has decided to serve the notice by herself. She will complete the serving of notice. The next hearing of the case is scheduled for second week of February,” said  , counsel for Ganga Kumari. 
 
 He said, “It must have been very disheartening for Ganga to run from pillar to post even after winning the legal battle. Contempt of court’s judgement is undesirable. Government must show alacrity in special sensitive matters like this.”
 
 According her petition, Kumari had cleared the written and physical tests for recruitment as a constable in the police department in 2015. Despite being selected, she had to fight a legal battle as in the medical test, she was declared a transgender. She said that a total of 208 candidates were selected and she was one of them. All other 207 have got the postings and she was the one left out in getting the posting. In physical test, she completed the race of 5kms in 32 minutes, within the qualifying time of 35 minutes in 2016. 
 
 If Kumari gets the constable's job, she would be the first transgender to do so in the state. 
 
 
