LUCKNOW:   has earmarked more than 20,000 acres of   across the state which it will offer to   during upcoming investors’ summit for setting up  .

 As per its new industrial policy, the government also aims to promote private industrial parks.
 
 The identified land includes about 11,000 acres in UPSIDC bank and another 10,000 acres earmarked by district magistrates in their respective areas and by Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway authorities.
 
 An official said that land for setting up industries has been bracketed under three categories.
 
 “UPSIDC has 5,500 acres spread over 23 industrial areas. This land is absolutely clear and interested parties can start work on it immediately.
 
 There is an additional 4,500 acres with the agency but there are some small, odd issues pending. However, if there is demand for this land, attempts will be made to sort out all the issues immediately,” the official said.
 
 The Noida and Greater Noida authorities have also identified land under their jurisdictions. Besides, land within 10 km on either side of Yamuna Expressway has also been earmarked. Another list has been submitted by DMs, including both government and private land. The government had asked all district administrations to ensure that the land identified for industrial development has access roads, water, 220/132 kV power sub-station, drainage and availability of labour. The DMs were told that the land should also be reasonably priced along with being infertile or unsuitable for agriculture.
 
 ‘DMs told to identify land in their dists’
 
 A three-member committee, comprising general manager of district industries centre, ADM and regional manager of UPSIDC, was set up at district level to assess each plot for its viability.
 
 For private land, sources said, the government would act as a facilitator between the investor and land owner. “Due to high cost of land acquisition, it is becoming increasingly difficult for the government to acquire land and hence private industrial parks are also being considered. The land that has been earmarked so far is spread across the state. All DMs were told to identify suitable land under their jurisdictions as we do not want industries to be concentrated in certain pockets of the state. Now, investors will have the luxury to choose where they would like to start operations and also take advantage of various sops that the government will provide for investing in areas like Bundelkhand and Poorvanchal,” the official added.
 
