Thiruvananthapuram: Three students of Class X at Government High School, Kattachakonam, near Nalanchira here, dropped out before the registration for   examination 2018 began. The remaining two students – regular absentees – needed much persuasion from the teachers to sit and study and gain the confidence to give the examination. They not only passed but also put this humble government institution amid those schools who have achieved cent per cent success in the public examination. The results were out on Thursday.

 School headmistress Jacinthal D could not hide her happiness. Both Jomon J and Ruban P did not show any interest in studies in the beginning and the students and their families were given counselling to make them realise the importance of education, recalled the headmistress. Least number of students appeared for the exam from this school this year.
 
 “Mostly children from unprivileged families study in the school and these children needed to be motivated to study. Our efforts started getting paid off towards the end of the academic year as both Jomon and Ruban began to show interest in studies,” said Jacinthal.
 
 Hailing from Anchal, Ruban lives with his parents who are daily-wage labourers. He could not celebrate the occasion as his mother was hospitalised on Thursday.
 
 Jomon lives with his grandmother at Anchuthengu. The situation at home doesn’t allow Jomon to pursue higher studies. He hopes to land a job.
 
 The school, established in 1917, celebrated its centenary last year. “The government has allotted the school a fund of Rs 14.5 crore to upgrade to international standards, which is expected to attract a good number of students this academic year,” added Jacinthal.
 
 Last academic year, there were a total of 54 students (nursery to Class X). Earlier, the number did not cross 50. Last time, nine students appeared for SSLC examination and eight of them passed. “Special classes and practise of previous year question papers were conducted for the students,” said Sreelatha VJ, a teacher.
 
 At the other end of the spectrum is St Mary’s Higher Secondary School, Pattom, as usual. It enrolled the maximum number of students (1,810) for Class X examination from the district and achieved 99.2% success (1797 passed). A total of 135 students scored all A+.
 
 
