According to a recent study conducted by a leading mobile health and fitness platform, Gurgaon, Noida and   are the most fitness conscious cities in the country. The study by the app Healthifyme found that in these cities, 45% people run daily and on an average, people work out at least 10 days a month. Fast becoming home to amateur runners, athletes, and avid cyclists, it’s pretty evident that Noidawallahs like to stay healthy. And they say that the city’s infrastructure, open-air gyms and a general awareness among people about health are some of the factors that have contributed to Noida’s growing fitness culture. 

  
  Radhika Lal 
 
 
 
 Noidawallahs say that IT firms in the city have played a major role in promoting fitness culture in the city. As Anshul Aggarwal,   and ultra-runner from Indirapuram, tells us, “Noida has many corporate offices and people who work in IT companies."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Anshul adds, "Since they have a sedentary lifestyle, they want to go out for a run or take up some fitness activity to keep themselves fit. So there are so many companies here that organize marathons or pay registration fee for fitness activities for their employees."
 
  
  Navdeep Kaur Dhillon
 
 
 
 Harneet Suri, a fitness trainer and online fitness coach from Noida, adds, "If someone posts a picture of them working out in a gym, whether people like it or not, they notice you. It stays in their mind and eventually, they get inspired and start following you. Social media is really playing a role in promoting fitness among people in Noida."
 
 
  
  Aman Puri, Anshul Aggarwal and Sameer Kathuria (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
  
 
 Rajeev Dubey, a cyclist and marathoner from Noida who has cycled for over 46,000km on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway in the past six years and is gearing up for Ironman, says, “I feel that the air quality in Noida is far better than Delhi’s, so that gives enough reason for Noidawallahs to get out, work out and breathe the fresh air. Also, the long stretches that are needed for cycling and running are available in Noida. The Noida-Greater Noida Expressway provides about 50km of uninterrupted stretch where one can cycle freely. I have cycled across the country, and I find the Expressway here the safest and one of the best in the country. Also, international teams come and practice here, which makes Noida a fitness-friendly city. Each and every sector of Noida has a lot of good parks and fitness groups. If you get up at 6am in Noida, you will find hundreds of people either running, cycling or skating.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Also, a lot of open-air gyms in the area has boosted the number of fitness enthusiasts in the city. Swikriti Mehta, a fitness enthusiast from Indirapuram, says, “In Noida and Ghaziabad, there are a lot of good open-air gyms which motivate passers-by when they see fitness enthusiasts working out. Also, we have a variety of cycling and other fitness clubs here that make it easy for people to take up a fitness activity.”
 
  
  Harneet Suri 
 
 
 
 Akanksha Thapliyal, a Noida-based yoga trainer, says, "As soon as something becomes a trend, people start following it. We got a major hike in the number of registrations at out centres after Yoga Day was made an important day. Be it cycling, running or yoga, a lot of clubs have come up in Noida and Ghaziabad. Every sector here has at least 10 or 12 yoga instructors. So Noidawallahs have certainly become fitness conscious."
 
  
  Swikriti Mehta 
 
 
 
 The Expressways and the wide roads are two major reasons that motivate Noidawallahs stay fit. Preeti Choudhary, a cyclist and marathoner and a resident of Sector 30, says, "What makes Noida the most fitness-conscious city is the amount of greenery and much cleaner and wider roads here. The Noida Stadium is also a go-to place for people if they want to take up a fitness activity. It’s full of other fitness enthusiasts who come there, and that motivates you. Also, the Expressway is an apt location for trials and you can do a stretch of 60km in one go. A ride from my home to the end of the Noida-Gr Noida Expressway is 58km and that’s a pretty good stretch for cycling."
 
 
  
 
