Despite facing odds and hardships, students from schools run by   ( ) delivered a commendable pass percentage of 84.41% in the   results announced by the Maharashtra Board.

 
 
 Dilip Dive, chief of NMC’s education board said, “We are very happy with this years’ results as the students really worked hard to achieve it. This is the fruit of the dedication of our teachers and students that the scores are at par with those of private schools.”
 
 The civic body runs four junior colleges for HSC, among which Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Junior College secured a pass percentage of 93%, Sane Guruji Urdu High School and Junior College secured 91% overall results; MAK Azad Urdu Higher Secondary School secured an overall result of 82.78% with 92% results in science and 81% and 74% pass percentage in arts and commerce stream respectively; and Tajabad Urdu Higher Secondary School scored overall 78.48% results.
 
 According to the press note released by NMC, students of Tajabad Urdu Higher Secondary School have secured 87.50% in arts, 92.30% pass percentage in science and 50% results in commerce. “We had 314 students enrolled in the schools who appeared for the   exams out of which 265 passed and we are very proud of this victory.” said Dive.
 
 Both first and the second science toppers Shirin Parveen Khan Sumela Parveen Khan are the students of Sane Guruji Urdu High School and Junior College and have scored an impressive 81.54 and 77.85%, respectively. 
 
 Two students from MAK Azad Urdu Higher Secondary School, Saleha Anjuman emerged as the topper of arts stream after scoring 78.15% and Shabeena Parveen is the second topper at 75%. Students from Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Junior College were the topper in the commerce stream with Dhammadeep Gaurkar with 76% as the topper followed by Mrunal Pantavade at 74% marks.
 
 Sandhya Medpalliwar, NMC education officer, said, “The efforts of the teachers are genuinely commendable. Our students come from financially poor backgrounds and cannot afford tuitions so their results are solely based on what they were taught in school. Our emphasis on regular attendance and students’ hard work have provided the successful results.” 
 
 
