LUDHIANA : Various bodies representing Cycle manufacturer’s Associations have urged the government to issue guidelines for appropriate use of Made in India bicycles for Public Bicycle Sharing (PBS) cycles and have cautioned government against encouraging Chinese firms for 

 Representatives of various bodies who deliberated on the issue recently mentioned that the government should also impose 60% import duty on PBS cycles and empower departments concerned in the cities to build safe cycling lanes.
 
 Notably, PBS has been planned ever since the launching of 100 smart city projects all over the country, including one in Ludhiana. For this, and other many such private PBS options, around 100 operators including those of China are competing across pan India. 
 
 Local manufacturers maintain, some firms having advantage of cheap Chinese PBS bikes, backed by large scale funding and aggressive networking are tilting the balance of competition in their favour and trying to penetrate Indian PBS market with dominance.
 
 “Against this alarming backdrop, it is abundantly clarified by the   that it unequivocally supports PBS roll out in India with the condition that only and only “Made–in–India PBS Bicycles” be used by all Operators,” said All India Cycle Manufacturers’ Association (AICMA), Chairman  , who is   cycles. 
 
 SK Rai MD of Hero cycles maintained that the manufacturers demand for simultaneous building of Safe Cycling lanes/tracks and inclusion of conditions for PBS data sharing with public body for national security consideration and the use of 10 mandatory reflectors, should also be met with. 
 
 Local manufacturers claim that already the unleashing of   in China eventually turned out to be a big public nuisance where PBS bikes flooded most of the public places – heaps of thousands of used PBS Bikes became a common sight in China. The unsustainable operation was decided to be regulated by the Chinese Government leading to deceleration of the PBS growth rate in China , as estimated, from a whopping 735% (2017) to a meagre 32 % ( 2019). In parallel, due to revolutionary growth in China, surplus PBS capacity, excessive inventory and continued huge funding, impelled some of their firms to explore the opportunities for PBS Bicycle in other countries including India. 
 
 The manufacturers claim that the mass scale dumping of cheap Chinese PBS bikes (Surplus –new and refurbished at excessively subsidized and unfairly priced products from China and some other operators instead of using Made–in–India PBS bikes is the burning issue which is intently bothering Indian Bicycle Industry. This is despite the fact that the PBS bicycles have no separate standards (international or national). It’s a basic bicycle with add-on features of distinct color, robust built, adjustable seat and handle bar, puncture proof tyres, RFID chip, smart lock, etc. India has enough capacity and full capability to supply PBS bicycles in variety and quantity on time.
 
 The reprsentation has been submitted by All India Cycle Manufacturers’ Association (AICMA) N. Delhi, United Cycle Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA ), Ludhiana ; Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organization (FICO).
 
 
 
 
