Popular youth channel, Zee Yuva’s light-hearted show, 'Anjali' which airs at 8:00 pm from Monday to Saturday; has successfully completed 200 episodes. This compelling story of a young doctor and her journey to fulfil her dreams has won the hearts of its viewers. Dr.   played by   is a practical and hardworking girl from a village near Nashik who comes to Dr. Janardan Khanapurkar Hospital, to fulfil her dreams of opening up a mobile hospital and helping the people living in rural India. Dr. Anjali has overcome many challenges that have come her way without letting her
confidence shatter.
 
  
 The entire cast and crew were overjoyed on the completion of this monumental milestone of 200episodes and celebrated the occasion with a cake cutting. Apart from the lead actors, the cake was cut by the artists who essay different roles in the show including doctors, ward-boys, patients, nurses and many more while the rest of the team cheered and clapped for the show’s success. The makers of the show believe that every person’s contribution, big or small has resulted in the success of Anjali.
 
 
 Sharing her excitement on completing 200 episodes, Suruchi Adarkar, who plays Dr. Anjali’s character said, “I am so grateful to be a part of this show and play the character of Anjali who not only inspires thousands of young women watching the show but also encourages me to fulfil my own dreams. I really hope that our viewers will continue to appreciate our work and support Anjali in achieving her goals. 
 Sharing his feelings on achieving this milestone, Harshad Atkari, who plays Dr. Yash’s character said, “When I read the storyline for the first time, I immediately knew Anjali had a great potential with its strong message for the youth to always chase their dreams. 200 episodes is just a start for us and I am extremely happy with our success.”
 Actor  , who played Dr. Aseem’s character said, “As an actor it feels great when your show completes 200 episodes; a first of many more milestones to come. My co-actors and the makers have become my extended family and also a pillar of strength for me. The fact that the audience appreciates our efforts, encourages us to give our best and keep entertaining them always”.
 
 
 Commenting on the success of Anjali,  ,   –   and   said, “At Zee Yuva, our aim has always been to appeal to the youth of Maharashtra and with 'Anjali', we are reaching out to all the young women who aspire to follow their passion. We are extremely happy with the milestone we have achieved and we hope 200 turns into 2000. I want to thank our viewers for the constant support, love and appreciation they have shown towards our show. We hope they will continue to support the show.”
 
 
