Hyderabad: As you walk towards the historical 400-year-old Gulzar Houz fountain near Charminar you can’t miss this Unani pharmacy that stands out amid outlets selling glitzy wares like jewellery, clothes and women’s accessories.

 One glance at the board and you realise that it has been standing tall since the Nizam era. Walk in and you find out that though Ahmed & Company Unani Pharmacy sports a modern look today, it has withstood the ravages of time, rising like the proverbial phoenix on more than one occasion.
 
 Delve deeper and the interesting history behind this family business and its founder   Ali Khan, who set it up in 1942 the age of 24, unravels. For starters, this family does not traditionally hail from a family of hakeems. In fact, the promoters are the descendants of the Yousafzai Pathan tribe of Afghanistan, members of which migrated to India in the 1800s. 
 
 While their forefathers first arrived in Delhi, Hakeem Ahmed Ali Khan’s father, Major Ewaz Khan, who served in the British Indian Army and was also awarded the MBE in 1918 for his acts of valour during World War I, came to Hyderabad in the 1890s after his posting in Bolarum. 
 
 But instead of continuing with the family legacy of military service, Ahmed Ali Khan decided to march to his own beat after he heard a public speech by Nawab Bahadur Yar Jung urging Muslims to enter into the world of business.
 
 “My father, who had done his intermediate, was interested in herbal medicine and after hearing this speech decided to venture out on his own. With the Nizam also encouraging Unani medicine, he decided to sell off all the family jewellery for Rs 10-15 per tola, and armed with Rs 1,500 from its proceeds set up Ahmed & Company in this very shop,” recounts 60-year-old Anwar Ali Khan, who helms the partnership firm as managing director.
 
 But running a pharmacy was not easy as Ahmed Ali Khan soon found out. For one, the high pricing of his Unani formulations did not go down too well with customers, who wanted cheaper medicines. 
 
 “We use authentic ingredients that are costly but there were many others selling Unani medicines at much cheaper rates so acceptance was very slow. But my father was a firm believer in the value of human life and refused to dilute quality. He always said don’t compromise on quality and don’t lie to the customer. Soon word spread about the efficacy of our medicines and people began recognizing its quality. The Nizam’s unani dispensaries too began procuring medicines from us,” he explains, pointing out their medicines range from Rs 50 to Rs 8,000.
 
 However, soon tragedy struck. During the Police Action of 1948, safety concerns prompted the family to seek refuge with relatives in Secunderabad. On return they found the pharmacy and house looted. “We did not even have clothes to wear. Our friends and relatives helped us with funds to rebuild the pharmacy that used to sell over 100 medicines then,” adds Anwar Khan, who joined the business in 1975 at the age of 18. 
 
 Soon word of Ahmed & Company’s efficacious medicines spread far and wide, attracting Bollywood film stars, politicians and even bureaucrats to its doorsteps, says Anwar Khan while refusing to name them citing patient confidentiality. 
 
 After the founder passed away in 1992 and Anwar Khan took over the reins of the pharmacy as one of his brothers branched out into real estate and anothe moved abroad. By this time the company had begun supplying its formulations to CGHS (Central Government Health Scheme) Unani dispensaries. 
 
 In fact, he recounts an encounter with former President APJ Abdul Kalam. “Upon learning that we supply to CGHS, the President called me to Rashtrapati Bhavan. He wanted to know about the research we were doing on various ailments and asked me why we are not developing medicines to tackle AIDS and cancer and advised us to work on these,” says Anwar Ali Khan.
 
 By 1993, the company began spreading its wings with branches in Moazzam Jahi Market, Nampally and Malakpet. This was also the time Anwar Khan introduced Unani medicines, which traditionally were available only in halwa (paste) form, in the capsule and tablet forms as well and also kicked off exports by late 1990s. A health magazine `Ahmed Times’ was also floated to popularise the use of alternative medicine among the masses.
 
 With business growing, the Karkhana (factory) was shifted from Gulzar Houz to a modern facility at Gagan Pahad near Shamshabad in 1998 and within three years Khan set up branches in the districts at Karimnagar, Mahbubnagar, Warangal and Nizamabad.
 
 But little did he know that another setback was lurking around the corner. A short-circuit gutted the newly renovated Gulzar Houz headquarters, destroying reams of documents containing recipes of Unani medicine formulations. “Luckily we had all the formulae stored in our computers at the factory as well and were able to retrieve everything. Within one week we rebuilt the pharmacy,” he adds.
 
 Interestingly, the secret ingredient in the recipe for success of Ahmed & Company is the key role played by the women of the family. While the founder’s wife Bader Jahan used to oversee the Karkhana’s functioning at Gulzar Houz, Anwar Khan’s wife oversees the factory operations at Gagan Pahad. “We are also training my wife Vaseeha Khan to take over the marketing operations of the company,” chips in Mohammed Salman Ahmed Khan, Anwar Khan’s only son who came on board in 2011.
 
 Today, the company makes over 300 Unani formulations catering to a plethora of ailments and is looking not only at expanding to become a 25-outlet chain by 2020 with outlets in other states, especially north India where it plans to target its key competitor Hamdard, adds Anwar Khan.
 
 Also on the cards is a diversification into Ayurvedic medicines with a separate entity and dedicated facility at Jadcherla, reveals Salman Ahmed Khan.
 
 “With the government making huge allocations for ayurvedic medicines, we decided to foray into this. We have already acquired the land for the factory and are working on getting the licences for setting up a new enterprise,” he adds.
 
 
