NAGPUR: Various NGOs and parents on Saturday protested against the commercialization of education and demanded the government step into stem the rot. The protests, held at  , were aimed at schools that allegedly ‘milk’ parents by charging high fees and earning commissions through private publishers and other proxy contractors (canteen, uniforms etc). 

 Shahid  , founder of  , said, “In schools, there are multiple issues like safety and security of the child which is not taken seriously by all. Everyone has their own system of benchmarking the security protocols but we want the government to have a proper system set in place.”
 
 The protestors submitted a memorandum to the deputy director of education (DDE) office in which they presented 30 demands that ranged from fee regulation, to child safety to FDI in education. Sharif said, “There are various NGOs in today’s protest and we all agree that fee cannot be charged according to whims and fancies of the trustees. The   ( ) has to play a key role and must be consulted and give approval for fee hike.” Anil Pardhi, DDE for Nagpur division, assured the protestors that their demands would be looked into on a priority basis. 
 
 Sharif said, “Parents have been complaining to us constantly about how schools are bullying them to accept decisions. Unfortunately, these parents have no proper forum to take their complaint to and the schools are also aware of this. But now, all us (NGOs), under the banner of   will ensure that the voiceless in our society can speak up.”
 
 He said the biggest challenge now is to have a whistle blower protection policy. “There are parents who are literally scared to leave the school because they pointed out a wrong doing. If this continues, no one will come forward and raise their concerns. We have discussed this with the education department and demanded that a special policy should be made to protect people who expose wrong doing,” said Sharif. 
 
 The Mission Education Federation sought suggestions from parents and based on the input decided to proceed with the list of their demands. “High school fees and safety of children top the concerns by parents. It is the moral responsibility of government to ensure that the private school cartel is broken and education is provided to all,” said Sharif. 
 
 
