AURANGABAD: Government Medical College and Hospital ( ) have opened the new hostel building for post graduate (PG) students, however they will have to stay there without any furniture.

 GMCH public works department engineer Syed K said that furniture will be provided in three months.
 
 During last month’s mass bunk of GMCH resident doctors, the agitating junior doctors demanded that the administration allot them rooms in the PG hostel.
 
 Representatives from   of Resident Doctors (MARD) said that lack of accommodation has led to resident doctors staying in the side-rooms of the wards. Hence, they are exposed to various infections and their safety compromised. They said that the PG hostel building has been ready for the last 2 years but it is not being opened citing lack of furniture.
 
 Consequently, GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar gave the go ahead to allot hostel rooms to students on Monday.
 
 Nilesh Wagh of Mard told TOI that 42 rooms in two wings of the hostel have been opened to students.
 
 Wagh said, “Eighty-four students are being allotted rooms, with 2 students staying in each room. There are separate wings for girls and boys.”
 
 Yelikar said that water and electricity connections have been provided to the hostel.
 
 “Though there is no table, chair, cupboard or bed, we at least have accommodation. It is better than staying in the side-rooms of the wards. That is why we decided to move in. The hospital authorities have told us that furniture will be made available in another 3 months. So, we will wait,” a student representative said.
 
 It may be noted that the state government issued a government resolution in November approving Rs 2.3 crore for furniture to be provided at the PG hostel. PWD engineer Syed K had said back then that the purchase order for furniture will be out in 15 days and in a month’s time furniture will be made available.
 
 On Tuesday, Syed K said that in a bid to avoid procuring poor quality furniture, it has been decided that furniture will be built in.
 
 “The tender process is complete and verification of documents is ongoing. In a day or two the work order will be released after that the furniture will be installed within three months,” he added.
 
 
