GHAZIABAD: A row of vehicles moving on GT Road near the under-construction Mohan Nagar   station had a narrow escape when a steel   weighing several tonnes fell around 40ft and brushed against an auto-rickshaw, a Hyundai Santro and a bike, injuring five persons during peak-hour traffic.

 Witnesses said the impact could have been much worse had the 30ft-long steel beam fallen directly on the vehicles, given the volume of traffic of officer-goers around 10 the morning. The girder had apparently been installed a few hours ago to build a road over-bridge connecting the metro station to an edge of the GT Road.
 
 The girder fell on the left flank of the road which is meant for vehicles travelling from Ghaziabad to Mohan Nagar crossing. Among the five persons who were injured, the condition of one woman was stated to be “extremely critical”. 
 
 The accident triggered a series of suspension of officials and the contract of the private agency assigned with the task of building the overbridge. The Mohan Nagar metro station is part of th DMRC’s extended Red Line project which will run from Dilshad Garden to New Bus Stand in Ghaziabad.
 
 The injured included four passengers travelling in a shared auto and a biker returning after appearing for an interview. Two of the auto passengers — Atul Gaur, a 30-year-old employee of a Noida IT firm, and Seema, a 27-year-old law teacher in a private college in Sahibabad — were admitted to the ICU of a private hospital. The other two occupants of the auto, Raje Gautam (42) and Indrajit (39), its driver, escaped with minor injuries.
 
 “I was in the rear seat of the auto with a woman on my left and a male passenger on the right. There was a loud noise and a sudden gust of wind inside the auto when the girder landed on our left. The woman seated on the edge of the auto was badly injured. Passersby rushed us to hospital,” said Gautam, a fruit vendor who was released after first-aid.
 
 The injured biker, Gulzar, was travelling ahead of the auto on the extreme left part of the flank and the steel beam fell to his right. “I was returning home in Makanpur after appearing for an interview in Mohan Nagar. I had a narrow escape, with only an injury to my left leg,” Gulzar told TOI.
 
 The auto driver, Indrajeet, suffered head and shoulder injuries. Police said three persons in the Santro, whose left side was mangled, suffered minor injuries but did not require medical help. A DMRC crane stationed nearby cleared the road of debris for traffic to resume within minutes. 
 
 Doctors at the hospital said Seema had suffered multiple fractures apart from ruptures to a few internal organs. “Two persons have been admitted to the ICU and are under observation. The condition of the female patient, Seema, is extremely critical. She might be referred to a higher facility. Surgeries might have to be conducted on both,” hospital CMO Dr Anuj Singhal said.
 
 A police complaint was lodged by auto driver Indrajeet’s family at Sahibabad police station, following which an FIR was registered against the private agency under IPC Sections 337 and 338 for causing grievous hurt by endangering life or personal safety of others.
 
 “The FIR has been registered for negligence against Ruby Constructions, which had been assigned the task of construction at the site on behalf of DMRC. A project manager of the firm,  , is likely to be taken to custody for questioning,” Sahibabad circle officer DSP Rakesh Mishra said.
 
 DMRC has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh for each of the seriously injured persons and Rs 1 lakh for those with minor injuries, besides taking care of the medical expenses.
 
 The project in-charge of the contractor, M/s GYT TPL, of Mohan Nagar station was removed. The sub-contractor, Ruby Enterprises, has been barred from taking up any projects of the DMRC. An assistant engineer and junior engineer of DMRC were also suspended.
 
 The   has ordered an inquiry into the incident.
 
 
