CHENNAI: The Centre’s draft notification revising   (CRZ) norms will present real estate promoters with plenty of space to develop beachfront   along East Coast Road, according to   in the   industry.

 The draft notification has proposed to permit development of coastal areas in the CRZ III (there are three classifications of CRZ) up to a distance of 50m from the high tide line (HTL), provided the neighbourhood has a population density of over 2,161 per sqkm according to the 2011 census.
 
 The Centre proposes to classify such regions as part of a new category — CRZ III(A). Within Greater Chennai Corporation limits, CRZ III(A) includes a stretch of ECR from Neelankarai till Uthandi. Previously, development was restricted to beyond 200m of the HTL under this CRZ category.
 
 “The reduction of no development zone limit is a big plus for promoters seeking to construct resorts. I would expect the number of resort plan applications to go up immediately,” Builders Association of India former president R Radhakrishnan said.
 
 The draft law’s publication predictably set off alarm bells among environmental activists who termed it a “legislation to legalise encroachments”.
 
 Radhakrishnan said environmentalists’ concerns may not be misplaced but pointed out that the Centre, while relaxing the norms,
 
 imposed restrictions on the nature of construction. “Resorts cannot be higher than nine metres in CRZ III areas,” he said, but acknowledged that scope still exists for violations.
 
 The relaxation of norms would permit Greater Chennai Corporation to pursue beach beautification projects of its own. The city’s major beaches — including Marina and Elliot’s in Besant Nagar — are in the CRZ II category. Three years ago, the local body ran into opposition when it proposed to redevelop the Marina Loop Road. “The draft may still change due to opposition from environmentalists. If passed as it is, the new CRZ norms would allow us to think about laying cycle tracks, set up toilets and walkways closer to the coast,” said a corporation official.
 
 Activists feel the relaxed norm primes the coast up for misuse and put fishing communities at a disadvantage. “This is not the first time CRZ norms were relaxed. In every iteration, the Centre has reduced CRZ into a toothless version of its previous self,” said Vanessa Peter, a city-based slum relocation policy researcher. For instance, she said, though the draft notification calls to “conserve livelihood security of fisher folk”, it fails to define what constitutes a fisherman’s dwelling unit. “The Tamil Nadu government looks at fisher folk dwelling units along the coast as unauthorised structures (encroachments). So, technically, the revised notification offers no protection to fisherfolk,” she added.
 
 
