SURAT: The world’s leading diamond mining company   shocked the   with the announcement about its foray into laboratory-grown diamond jewellery business from September. 

 
 
 De Beers announced the launch of its new jewellery brand of laboratory-grown diamond Lightbox, offering high-quality jewellery designs at lower prices than the existing laboratory-grown diamonds on Tuesday.
 
 De Beers will be breaking its 130-year old tradition of not selling laboratory-grown diamonds. The diamond jewellery will be marketed in the US and would be sold for a fraction of the price of mined diamonds.
 
 With the advent of cheap laboratory-grown diamonds, the costly natural diamonds have lost their appeal among the millennial consumers across the world. Rather than investing in high-priced natural diamond jewellery, millennial prefer to spend on electronics and vacations. 
 
 “Lightbox will transform the laboratory-grown diamond sector by offering consumers a laboratory-grown product they have told us they want but aren’t getting: affordable fashion jewellery that may not be forever, but is perfect for right now,” CEO, De Beers Group, Bruce Cleaver said. 
 
 “Our extensive research tells us this is how consumers regard laboratory-grown diamonds – as a fun, pretty product that shouldn’t cost that much – so we see an opportunity here that’s been missed by laboratory-grown diamond producers. Laboratory-grown diamonds are a product of technology and as we’ve seen with synthetic sapphires, rubies and emeralds, as the technology advances, products become more affordable. After decades of investment in research and development, we’re able to offer consumers a better price today,” Cleaver said. 
 
 Diamond industry analyst Aniruddha Lidbide told TOI, “It is a big shock for natural diamond industry, especially manufacturers from India, that De Beers is foraying into laboratory-grown diamond business. This pinpoints to the growing acceptance of the laboratory-grown diamonds in the world. This is because the naturally mined diamonds are high-priced.” 
 
 Lightbox laboratory-grown diamonds will retail from US $200 for a quarter-carat stone to US $800 for a one-carat stone. 
 
 De Beers has invested a total of $94 million over four years in a new laboratory-grown diamond subsidiary Element Six production facility near Portland, Oregon. Once fully operational, the plant will be capable of producing upwards of 500,000 rough carats of laboratory-grown diamonds a year.
 
 
