Vadodara: Upping the ante against the state government and private schools, various parent groups in the city on Tuesday started staging protests and submitted memorandums demanding that the Gujarat Self-Financed Schools (Regulation of Fees) Act 2017 be implemented without any further delay.

 There was ruckus at Shaishav School on Gotri-Sevasi Road when parents who had turned up to attend a meeting scheduled by Vadodara district education officer (DEO) team were stopped at the school gate. The school management insisted that there was no such meeting. Howeer, representatives from DEO office turned up at the school and held a meeting in presence of parents. 
 
 The DEO team, however, failed to convince parents to pay up the fees as per old fee structure of 2016-17 till the time fee regulatory committee (FRC) decides over the new fee structures of the schools. 
 
 At Baroda High School in Alkapuri, large number of parents dressed in white clothes gathered outside the school premises with banners and raising slogans against the fees demanded by the school managements. 
 
 Parents had conducted the programme to spread the message amongst their counterparts and to garner support for the bandh call given for January 12. Parents of BHS have also decided to appeal to the van drivers urging them to support their bandh call so that no student reaches the school on Friday. 
 
 A group of around 20 parents on behalf of the Vadodara District Parents Association (VDPA) also met collector P Bharathi and submitted a petition stating the sequence of events since April 25 last year. “We gave in writing how this Act is being violated by the schools by demanding exorbitant fees and circulars are being issued even after the high court order,” said advocate Kishore Pillai, VDPA’s spokesperson. 
 
 “We have also submitted affidavits of parents from Nalanda International School, Green Valley High School and Jay Ambe School stating that their wards are being sent back or are not allowed to board the school bus on the grounds that they have not paid the fees,” said Pillai. The collector has agreed to forward a detailed report to the state government. 
 
 
