MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday observed that   officials too must inspect restaurants and pubs regularly and take action against violations. The HC hearing a PIL filed by prominent former top cop Julio Rebeiro on the need for urgent measures and an independent audit on fire safety in licensed eateries following the December 2017   fire where 14 patrons of two resto-pubs lost their life in a blaze. The HC said that along with civic administration,   authorities like the excise department must also conduct regular checks to ensure that there are no violations of rules and conditions.

 The HC bench of Justices RM Borde and RG Ketkar asked Rebeiro’s counsel Sujay Kantawalla to address it on Thursday on feasibility of appointing an independent commissioner for an audit on all restaurants and also to analyse the state’s roof top policy and sections 58 and 33(6) of the Development Control Regulations which deal with sharing of open land on defunct textile mills with civic body and the state housing authority.
 
 The BMC counsel Anil Sakhare submitted all the permissions and plans relating to Mojo Bistro and 1 Above, as well as the owner of Kamala Mills, Trade Tower, at Lower Parel from the start till the fire. Kantawalla meanwhile read from the Municipal Commissioner’s report following the fire and asked the court to take note of “superficial demolition’’ done by the BMC post blaze. He said that unless judicial intervention takes place, “business will go on as usual.’’
 
 “The HC is examining a very critical aspect of right to life and liberty,’’ said the lawyer as he read from the civic chief’s report. The report said that there were obstacles to fire safety compliance as no signage and adequate exits were provides which would have enabled patrons to escape unsinged. He said the rules itself requires at least two fire audits.
 
 The commissioner had said “it is possible that Kamala Mills has used commercial area beyond permissible limits. It needs to be verified.’’ The original plan was for an IT park at the mill land said Kantawala, the court asked if any tech companies were there on the land now.
 
 To the state, the bench said, “If there is any violation it is the job of the excise department to act. There has to be some mechanism to check periodically and for action to be taken…What has happened in the past and what has to be done in future, both these aspects we will look at.’’
 
 At an earlier hearing the HC had said, “There has to be some mechanism to carry out periodic checks on such eateries to check if there are any violations.’’ On Wednesday, the bench asked what policy was in place for granting roof top licenses to restaurants.
 
 
