PUNE: All 63 stalls of the ‘Mango Festival’ were gutted and fruits worth over Rs1 crore were destroyed in a fire on the Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board premises in Market Yard on Friday afternoon.

 No causalities were reported because all the 75 mango-growing farmers — from Devgad and Ratnagiri in the Konkan region — participating in the festival ran out of the stalls. There was no rush of buyers either because the fire broke out in the afternoon.
 
 Some mango farmers tried to douse the flames using the fire extinguishers provided by the Maharashtra State Agriculture Marketing Board (MSAMB), but in vain. The fire engulfed all the stalls in the pandal within seconds because of the dried grass, cardboard and wooden boxes used for packaging mangoes. A total of 50 firemen, four fire tenders and two water tankers doused the blaze in an hour.
 
 The mango farmers had loaded more stock in the stalls on Thursday and Friday anticipating higher demand in the weekend. “The fire caused a huge loss to us. The only good thing is none of us suffered injuries,” said  , a mango farmer from Ratnagiri.
 
 For the past 15 years, the MSAMB has been organizing the Mango Festival. It gives the mango farmers from Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri and   districts a platform to sell their produce directly to the consumers. This year, the festival started on April 2 and was supposed to continue till May 31. The MSAMB had put up a pandal for the 63 stalls.
 
 The chief fire officer of the Pune fire brigade,  , told TOI that the fire broke out around 12.30pm. “An eyewitness told us that the fire started at the dried grass in one of the stalls. He had raised an alarm and tried to douse it,” Ranpise said.
 
 He said all the stalls were stuffed with dried grass, cardboard and wooden boxes. “These played a major role in spreading the fire,” he said.
 
 Ranpise, who rushed to the spot with four fire tenders and two water tankers, said the road leading to the MSAMB was narrow and barricades were installed to restrict the movement of heavy vehicles. “So, we had to park the fire tenders at a distance,” he said.
 
 “About 50% of the mangoes stocked in the stalls were destroyed,” Ranpise said, adding that the fire could have started because of the heat.
 
 Sawant, the mango farmer from Ratnagiri, alleged the fire brigade came late. “Had they come immediately, the stock in at least 20 stalls could have been saved,” he said.
 
 Sawant said all the farmers stayed in the stalls at night. “The situation would have been different had the fire started in the night hours,” he said.
 
 Mango farmer   from Devgad said they had suffered a total loss of about Rs1 crore. “Each stall had a stock of at least 70 boxes. Each box contained a minimum of five dozens of mangoes,” he said.
 
 J J Jadhav, the manager of the MSAMB, Pune, told TOI that alternative arrangements would be made for the mango farmers till the end of the festival. “We are working on providing them an alternative space so that they can start their business immediately,” he said, adding that the pandal owner also suffered loss in the fire. 
 
 
