To keep snakes away from your yard may require snake-proof fencing, besides maintaining of clean surroundings and other simple measures. However, artisans from the Iddar ward of Poinguinim literally wave a magic wand to get rid of the reptile.

 Called ‘sapi boddi’ (snake stick), ‘sarpkatti’ or ‘pandri boddi’, the stick, made from the pandri creeper, is fashioned to look like a snake and for generations has been made by the ingenious craftsmen of Iddar belonging to the Chari community.
 
 “It is a tradition handed down to us by our forefathers and we have carried it on,” seasoned carpenter   says.
 
 Many may question how a mere piece of wood less than one metre in length kept in the house can drive away snakes, but traditional belief has assured the snake stick its importance.
 
 “It has been a traditional belief that keeping the stick in the house is a good thing and that the smell of the pandri wood keeps snakes away,” says Madhusudhan’s son, Gauresh.
 
 Iddar takes pride in the creativity of its carpenters, who are much sought after for wood work, especially for carving. “We get orders for doors and carved furniture. Often, we also get calls for church altars and other wood work in temples,” says Gauresh.
 
 While there is demand for the ‘sarpkatti’, its making is mainly restricted to Iddar where, too, hardly three families are involved in the work. A piece fetches anywhere between Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500.
 
 Gaondongorim was another place where some craftsmen made the stick. “The pandri creeper is only found in a few places. It is difficult to find it in deep forest area,” says Madhusudhan.
 
 The stem of the creeper, which thrives on its own, must suit the requirement of size and thickness.
 
 “The carvi n g is done in such a way that the snake’s hood is slightly off the surface. This is the natural shape of the snake,” says Gauresh.
 
 The red seeds of a local plant called gunzuli are used as eyes of the snake.
 
 The natural colour of the strong wood is retained and finishing is done with only polish. “No varnish is used. If any stain is found on the wood during carving, it is discarded,” says Madhusudhan.
 
 The Iddar families offer the wooden item proudly as gifts to guests, visitors and others.
 
 Madhusudan’s family proudly show photographs of a snake stick being presented to chief minister   during a function held in the village.
 
 The crafting of the stick into a finished product requires painstaking effort of about two days. “Now, with machinery, the work has become slightly easier, but one needs to be focused and much depends on judgement,”   said.
 
 The Chari community commands respect for its expertise in wood and metal work. “They have a natural talent and an aptitude for cutting and carving to the right proportions, which a trained carpenter may not get even with years of experience,” says resident of nearby   village, Dattaprasad Prabhugaonkar.
 
