Be it the ever-smiling anchor of ' ' or Salman Khan’s demure bhabhi from 'Hum Aapke Hain Koun..!', everyone remembers   as the girl next door with the brightest grin ever. At the same time, anyone active on Twitter in recent times has come across her socially-relevant posts and knows that she has no qualms in voicing her opinions, even if it is at the cost of sounding politically-incorrect. As this hands-on mom is all set for her   comeback after a long hiatus with the upcoming film ' ', we catch up with the actress on motherhood, social media and more. Excerpts.

 
 
 After 'Hum Aapke Hain Koun…!' ('HAHK'), I was getting roles similar to that of Pooja (her character in the film) and that is what kept me away. Since I am from theatre, doing something routine on screen did not seem challenging. Besides, I was getting exciting roles on TV, which is a time-consuming medium. Also, I delivered my firstborn in 2002, a year after my marriage. By then, I had reached a saturation point. I was working round the clock and I needed to take time off to be with my children. In fact, I still don’t think that they are independent enough for me to get back to work. However, I have been active in Marathi cinema and TV and I am happy to keep in touch with the Marathi-speaking audience. Now, interesting things are happening in the cinema space, too. I think '3 Storeys' will prove that I could do other roles apart from playing a pyaari bhabhi (laughs!). It’s a leap of faith for the makers to cast me. Who would have thought of casting me as Flory Mendonca? Today, A-list actors are playing a variety of roles and they could have approached anybody for this part.
 
 
 Yes, I do, because when a superstar like Akshay Kumar educates the masses about menstrual hygiene, it is important. People look up to Bollywood so much that when a male superstar says something like this, changes start happening in our society. Such topics are no longer restricted to only those who are involved in women’s causes. I am just hoping for that day when we do not have to wrap our sanitary pads in black polythene bags, like it is some national secret or a bomb (laughs!). Also, the kind of value women have in films these days and the roles they are getting to play… it is a massive change. Both men and women, who are sensitive to such topics, are making films with a humanistic approach. They are trying to lend that kind of realness and sensitivity to their films. Today, even married actresses command their fan following with films riding on their shoulders. Forget marriage, even childbirth is not detrimental to their careers. That is a massive change. 
 
 
 
 Totally. I am a hands-on mother. I have been their anchor since their birth. It’s been nine years since I took a sabbatical. Playing mom to my boys is what I do for most part and I love it. There is no regret at all, as this is what I have always wanted. I cannot tell you how much I have learnt about myself and the world as a mother. If I were working, I would be yearning to spend some quality time with them, but now I have all the time for them. Even I had that advantage when I was growing up. My mother did not work till I turned nine. It is a personal choice, and I wanted to give the same kind of security to my children. But to each his own. I am not good at multitasking, while there are others who thrive on that. They like to manage several things at a time, get up, fill lunch boxes, go to work, come back home, look after their homework and cook. I think that choice should be respected. Along with that, the choices that men make should also be respected. They should also have the choice of taking a back seat and spending quality time with their children. A family should decide who is inclined to doing what. In my case, it looks patriarchal because my husband is working and I am staying at home. But that is my dream. I didn’t want to become an actress. I wanted children and I am living that dream. When people say that it has been a setback in my career, probably it has as an artiste, but not as a human being.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Oh yes! I would say so because otherwise, where would you speak up? Social media gives me that kind of space and it makes my fans aware of how I am as a human being. It has been great. Especially when college kids meet me now, the first thing they talk about is, ‘We read your posts. You’ve done a good job in expressing your views and opinions, which is what we feel, but can’t express openly.’ Social media has helped me connect with young people, who might not be familiar with my work. This platform is democratic. There are extreme views and abusive trolls as well. At the same time, there are people who try to make some sense and perhaps, speak on behalf of those who might not be able to put their own thoughts into words. So many people tell me that, ‘Ye jo aapne kaha, this is exactly how I feel, but I could not write.’ So, it is that sense of being a representative. 
 
 
 
 Initially, I would be shocked as I had never faced hatred of this kind, but soon I realised it was all orchestrated and not personal. Earlier, I would spend hours discussing topics and sometimes it worked and many of the trolls turned around and apologised. I have always maintained that I have no issues with people having a different point of view, but I have a problem with the way they say it. I respect your opinion, so why can’t you respect mine? Mud-slinging matches on social media can affect people emotionally. Ranaji (husband  ) would come home and ask me, ‘Were you on Twitter today? You look like a mess’, and I would say, ‘Yes, I had a very long battle (laughs!)’. In fact, people in the industry express shock and tell me that did not know I have this side to me.
 
 
 I wanted to clear my stand as people often misrepresent facts. Somebody took up what I said related to the judiciary and then put it out of context, which said that ‘Salman’s bhabhi slaps him in a post’. That is ridiculous and we should not encourage this nonsense. There are nuances in what I have written and anybody reading that should know it is not anti-Salman, but my posts are questions that the judiciary needs to ask itself. I cleared my stand but it was not a way to say sorry for what I had written. Today, I would not have done it as I have also changed on social media. Earlier, I would have tried to clarify that my purpose is not to hurt people. I have every right to talk about what is going on around me, even if it is about people from my industry. If associations go kaput because of that, they do. One just has to face the consequences because this is something I stand for and I don’t mind saying it.
 
