NAGPUR: The Pandharkawda man-animal conflict turned murkier on Sunday after   chief conservator of forests ( ) GT Chavan sought permission to shoot the problem tigress. This is despite the fact that reports suggest two tigers — a male and a female — are involved in human kills.

 In the last 18 months, between June 1, 2016 and January 27, 2018, tigers have killed 10 villagers in Ralegaon under Pandharkawda division. Almost 50% attacks have been reported in agriculture fields or in the periphery of the forest belonging to FDCM. The conflict has flared up especially in the last four months with four kills.
 
 The decision to seek permission to eliminate the problem tigress was taken after hectic meetings. “We are confident that in Saturday’s killing of Ramaji Shendre of Loni, a tigress is involved,” said Chavan.
 
 This is for the second time that the permission to shoot the tigress has been sought. However, as per the reports submitted by deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) KM Abharna, the last kill of Chandku Atram on December 9, 2017 was done by a male. It means that two tigers are involved in the conflict.
 
 However, even as permission to shoot the tigress is yet to be considered by the chief wildlife warden, shooter Nawab Shafath Ali Khan has been summoned by Chavan at Pandharkawda.
 
 “We are anticipating to get nod to shoot the problem tigress and hence have called Khan. The last four kills have been recorded in her name. It is also true that on Vihirgaon kill, a male had approached,” said Chavan.
 
 Chavan also slammed the wildlife vets for suspecting the problem tigress to be pregnant and approaching the NTCA, which withheld entire capture operation by the NTCA. “The locals were up in arms on Saturday and started ‘rasta roko’ when they learnt about it,” he said.
 
 However, WII-NTCA committee, which was in Pandharkawda on Sunday to review pictures of the tigress, prima facie felt that the tigress was not pregnant. “The committee will seek explanation from two vets who felt the tigress was pregnant. One of the vets earlier worked in problem area but never told the tigress was pregnant,” sources told TOI.
 
 After going through the reports, the committee consisting of WII scientist   and assistant inspector general (AIG)   too felt that two tigers were involved in conflict.
 
 Sources said the team suggested for one potential team to monitor the tigers and capture thereon. As summer approaches, capture of problem tigers will be easy, they felt. A report will be submitted to NTCA next week.
 
 
