KOLKATA: Some pose as trolley handlers while other pretend to be  . Some wait near the   as fellow   while a few stand near the exit gate of the arrival terminal holding fake passenger name placards and approach passengers leaving the terminal, asking if they need a   or a hotel close by.

 
 
  
 
 Welcome to  , where taxi touts have changed their modus operandi to escape cops, who had recently arrested over 20 of them from outside the   and slapped them with charges of attempt to extortion after TOI reported about the torment last month.
 
 
  
 
 Amonth after the arrests, TOIfound that to escape the cops, the touts — around 40 are functional — have donned a new trick — to loiter around the premises faking some other jobs.
 
 In front of gate 1A and 1B, two youths stood holding the hand rests of trolleys and trying to ask the passengers to use one of them in case they already don’t have one. In the pretext of handing trolleys, they strike a conversation with the passengers, asking if they need a taxi.
 
 Few steps ahead stands another youth, holding a passenger name placard as if he was there to pick someone. But he was found approaching almost every passenger if they needed a taxi. “I refuse conversations with these touts every time I use the airport. But this time, I found some random trolley boys and a man holding a placard for some Mr Mehta, approach me for a taxi. I found it weird but later realised it was a new trick the touts have resorted to,” said Saptarshi Sinha Roy, a resident of Tollygunge and a senior MNC manager who works in Bangalore.
 
 But it’s not that the cops are not aware of their presence in the new avatar. TOI spotted a group of them standing near the Bidhannagar City Police-controlled pre-paid taxi counter outside the airport posing as helpers to taxi drivers and coolies to help passengers. But whenever a prospective passenger seem to approach the counter to book a pre-paid cab, the touts pounce on them to travel with them.
 
 Similar is the situation near the AC bus depot, where touts try to convince passengers travelling in groups how it is economical and comfortable for them to book a cab rather than travelling in a bus where they spend anything between Rs 30-Rs 60 for a ticket.
 
 “We have to get a living. We are doing business here for so many years. How can we suddenly move out of the airport? The cops know about us and they get a share,” said one of the touts.
 
 The touts have also stopped parking their cars between gates 4A/4B and 5A/5B in the lower level driveway, where vehicles are allowed to just pick up passengers. Their cars are now parked in interiors of the ground floor parking where they take passengers to finalize a deal.
 
 “We run a sustained drive against the touts and other illegal activities around the airport. Just like we change our tactic, those breaking the rule adapt to new techniques. We will intensify our drive further,” said Bhaskar Mukherjee, the deputy commissioner (airport division) of Kolkata airport.
 
 
 
