KOLHAPUR: The continuous drop in sugar prices is set to trigger a fresh round of tension between sugar cane producers and sugar factories. 

 In a meeting last week, sugar factories from Kolhapur district decided to pay Rs 2,500 per tonne as first instalment to farmers as against the original decision to pay approximately Rs 2,900 per tonne, including the fair and renumerative price ( ). They decided to pay the remaining price in the next instalments. 
 
 Angry with the move, farmers' organisations have demanded action against those factories that do not pay the entire amount.   leader and MP Raju Shetti said, "We are against this decision of sugar factory owners. We will have to consider a fresh agitation against this type of behaviour of sugar factories. Its course of action will be decided after I return Kolhapur from Delhi on February 9."
 
 
  
  
 
 Raghunanth Patil, leader of the Shetkari Sanghatana, claimed that sugar factories always give various reasons to not to pay farmers their dues. "That is why the government has made laws to punish them if they fail to pay farmers. We will intensify our agitation against sugar factories if they fail to pay our dues. We cannot stop cane crushing at present, but will pressurise the state government to implement rules against sugar factories if they fail to pay FRP," he said.
 
 At the start of the crushing season in November 2017, the farmers' organisations and sugar factory owners had agreed on new formula over the payment of fair and remunerative price (FRP) for sugar cane purchase. This formula was decided on the basis of the market price of sugar then (Rs 3,600 per quintal). The sugar prices have since dropped to Rs 2,850 per quintal. 
 
 "The factories have to consider average rate of sugar price in the market throughout the year and not the particular prices of the month of November or December. This is temporary fluctuation of market and will be corrected automatically," said Patil. A meeting of all the representatives of sugar factories from Kolhapur district was convened at the office of   (KDCC) Bank last week. 
 
 "We are bound to pay the price decided by the state government and during the meeting with farmers' leaders before the start of the cane crushing. Till now, we have paid the first instalment to cane producers as per formula, but now we will pay Rs 2,500 per tonne as first instalment from February 1. We will pay the remaining amount later," said a senior member, who was present in the meeting. 
 
 P G Medhe, consultant to Rajaram cooperative sugar factory, Kolhapur said, "The decision has been taken following the constant fall of sugar prices in the market. We are unable to sell sugar at the price that will give us at least its production cost after processing. We will pay farmers their dues after we get good price for sugar in the market."
 
 
