VIJAYAWADA: With the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) continuing to express anger at the BJP-led central government over the meagre allocations to Andhra Pradesh in the Union budget, the state   leaders also adopted a posturing of strong protest and threatened to resign from the state cabinet. 

 At a meeting held in   on Sunday, the state BJP leaders came out strongly against the TDP and its continuous protests both in   and outside   in New Delhi. The meeting also saw a heated debate among the leaders, with some of them pushing for resignation of all BJP ministers in the AP cabinet. Endowments ministers Manikyala Rao and health minister Kamineni Srinivas said they will resign if the party asks them to do so. 
 
 "Some leaders felt that when the TDP is accusing us of not giving support, we should resign too," state BJP leader Shyam Kishore told TOI. "We have not made any decision on this yet. We will discuss this within the party," he added. He made it clear that the party high command has not sent any feelers regarding this and that it was an opinion fermenting within the party's state ranks. 
 
 During the meeting, BJP state president K Haribabu was cornered by state executive member Lakshmipati Raja for not taking a more assertive stand against the TDP. When he said that it was time to take a tough call, Haribabu replied that the right decision would be taken at a right time. The argument continued until Manikyala Rao intervened to pacify him.
 
 A decision was also taken at the meeting to constitute a study committee, to be headed by  , to look into the funds given to the state by the Centre and the veracity of the state government's allegations of lack of support. Haribabu said that the Union government had fulfilled its promises except on the questions of Visakhapatnam railway zone, Dugarajapatnam port and the proposed steel plant in  . The party will also raise questions on corruption in the committee's report, which will be submitted in five days.
 
 Later, interacting with the media, BJP MLA Vishnu Kumar Raju said that TDP has been attacking them unceremoniously and that it was time to be as tough as an opposition party. "Some of the TDP leaders are feeling proud that they addressed Prime Minister   as Mr. Prime Minister. This is not right. We could also react in a similar manner, but we are not doing that," he said. He also expressed ire against TDP ministers who criticised Haribabu on the educational institutes granted by Centre. 
 
 
