THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Modelled on the all India survey on higher education, the   has been gearing up for the conduct of a first-ever comprehensive higher   in the state. The council has started the process of developing a web-based software for the survey. 

 Lack of authentic data on higher education institutions has been proving to be one of the major handicaps for the state government and the state   for finalising policy matters in the sector, which, of late, has been witnessing a volley of fresh challenges from different quarters. 
 
 None of the competent authorities in the state has consolidated and authentic information on the number of higher education institutions in the state and the variety of courses they offer, their competence and intake of students.
 
 Though the  , the youngest among the state varsities, had vowed to publish an annual rating of its affiliated engineering colleges, the university had to put such a decision on the back burner for reasons best known to varsity authorities.
 
 "At present, we do not have consolidated data on the details of courses, colleges and number of students in higher education institutions in the state. The absence of such vital data is a major problem when it comes to policy formulation, prioritisation and timely-intervention in the sector. Even the state planning board doesn't have such data. The council is going ahead with the plan for survey as the state government too has specifically asked the council to prepare such a data base," said state higher education council member secretary  . An online portal for the survey purpose would be launched by June next.
 
 The absence of authentic data has been cited as a major reason for the state government losing legal battles against higher education institutions in unaided sector. The high court had even questioned the rationale behind the state government proclaiming policy changes, without adducing data to corroborate its claims regarding excess seats and colleges in engineering sector. 
 
 The picture that one gets about higher education scenario in Kerala in the light of the all India higher education survey was not accurate. 
 
 "For instance, Kerala's Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in higher education sector mentioned in the all India survey is far from reality. Same is the case with several other parameters. There is also a general feeling that the incomplete data about state higher education in Kerala has been adversely affecting the state when it comes to central government funding as well," the council secretary added.
 
 
