PUNE: Heavy traffic on roads coupled with inconsistent cycle track has somewhat soured the experience of riding a   bicycle.

 Pune Municipal Corporation’s public bicycle sharing scheme has many takers, but many feel the lack of necessary infrastructure makes it difficult to take full advantage of the facility.
 
 
  
 
 Harshal Agarwal, a city-based IT professional who uses PEDL cycles on weekends, said that riding on Pune roads is unsafe, especially in peak hours. “In enclosed areas like Savitribai Phule Pune University, where the cycles were launched, it is pretty safe to ride as there is limited traffic. However, when one hits the main roads, it becomes much more dangerous. The main problem is that there is no respect for cyclists on the streets and vehicles keep honking at us when we ride,” he said. 
 
 Agarwal pointed out that cycle tracks that are available in parts of the city too have been rendered useless. “The lack of (track) continuity is not the only problem. Two-wheeler riders often use the cycle tracks to avoid traffic, thus posing a risk to the cyclists on the track,” he said. 
 
 Hospitality professional   said while the cycles are geared with reflectors to ensure   while riding, more needs to be done. “The municipal body or the cycle providers must also make helmets available with the cycle. The helmets can be fitted with a lock on the baskets,” she suggested. so as to provide safety to the riders,” she explained. 
 
 Agarwal also said maintenance of the cycles is an issue. “Many cycles do not get unlocked despite multiple attempts. In some cases, the pedals are very tight or the seats are not in a proper condition. Maintenance contributes greatly to the safety of the cycle as well as the cyclist,” he explained. 
 
 Nirmal M R, vice-president (operations) for Zoomcar (PEDL’s parent company), said that proper safety measures are in place. “Maintenance of the cycles is a day-to-day affair for our ground teams. Users can also provide feedback about the cycle when the ride is about to end, so that any maintenance activity can be carried out. Also, the cycle sends signals online if there is a problem in unlocking. If problems cannot be solved on the road, we take the cycle back to the warehouse for proper repairs,” he stated.
 
 However, it is not just the cyclists’ safety, but also the safety of others that must be considered. 
 
 TOI had reported earlier that those who are using PEDL bicycles tend to park them haphazardly on footpaths, causing an element of risk to pedestrians. 
 
 Many have complained that the parked cycles sometimes accupy the entire width of the pavement, forcing them to step on to the busy road and then back onto the pavement.
 
 Many had suggested that the PMC, on the lines of similar facilities in many countries, create special docking stations where the cycles can be parked. 
 
 
