AHMEDABAD: The nearly 20% spurt in liquor permits on health grounds since 2015 is attributed to the new stringent prohibition policy by many. Senior prohibition officials say people who consume illegal liquor, which is cheaper than that sold from licensed shops in  , could earlier easily get bail if caught drunk. But after the new prohibition policy came into effect, many well-connected alcoholics obtained liquor permits on health grounds as a shield from the law. 

 A senior prohibition official said, "They consume illegal liquor and when caught drunk they show the liquor permit. "I can personally say," said a prohibition officer, "Most liquor permits are issued on false medical grounds."
 
 Prohibition officials said this is the reason why scrutiny of health permits have been ordered by the state home department. "We have been asked to formalize the state board which would scrutinize health liquor permits. If irregularities are found, then the permits will be cancelled and action taken," said a senior prohibition official.
 
 According to the new prohibition statute which came into effect from March 2017, those found guilty of possession, manufacturing, purchasing, selling or transporting illegal liquor in Gujarat can face imprisonment up to 10 years and additional fine up to Rs 5 lakh.
 
 The strict prohibition policy, however, is also providing greater opportunities for corruption and extortion think prohibition officials. To make the point, an official cited the example of a businessman who had purchased four bottles of liquor from a notified area and was intercepted by cops outside it. "The cops threatened to book his entire family and confiscate his luxury car. The businessman had to pay a bribe of Rs 12 lakh to escape his predicament," said the official.
 
 In Ahmedabad, a couple returning from honeymoon with two bottles bought from a duty-free shop in Dubai was intercepted by cops in  . The cops allegedly extorted Rs 60,000 from them. It led to suspension of the sub-inspector and three other cops involved.
 
 
