On a bright sunny afternoon, we were happy to step on to a football field in Bandra and witness an unlikely Indo-Serbian, Man Utd-Arsenal and actor-player partnership. Superstars in their own right and supposed rivals — former   legend   and   (who’s a diehard Arsenal fan) teamed up for a fun football game with the kids, as part of the many initiatives of the   to promote the game in the country. On Vidic’s two-day tour in Mumbai, it was interesting to see Ranveer using desi slang like eh outtey outtey (read: out hai) while tackling the ball alongside the star footballer. The kids turned out to be quite competitive and while the two took a breather post the challenging contest, we took the opportunity to chat with the duo about the status of football in India, gender equality in sports, dominance of technology curtailing people’s drive to indulge in physical activities and the quintessential football question, who’s better —   or  . Who tackled, defended and struck back better? Read on to find out.

 
 
  What a bright sunny day and Ranveer is great for football, too. I am enjoying my time here. To see the kids coming in huge numbers and playing so well, I think it’s great for football. I am pleased to be here and want to thank you for your hospitality. I’m enjoying these two days here.
 
  It’s such a wonderful thing to have him here. I have watched Nemanja play while I was growing up, right through my school, college and university days. Throughout his career, I have watched and admired him and I am sure these kids do, too. Just imagine, what a memorable occasion it must be for these kids to be playing with him. For the rest of their lives, they will remember that they played football with Vidic! Now, 
 even I can say that I have played with him (smiles). I am like a big kid right now. I am so giddy and excited.
 
 
 
  Sachin sir is absolutely right. Sports culture in other countries is a lot more developed. For us, the most popular sport has always been cricket. But we are definitely heading in the right direction. In the past four years, every sport has its indigenous league now. From kabaddi and badminton to football, they are getting popular. So, sports culture is being developed from the ground up. Kids today have a lot more access to sports infrastructure. The world is more connected, so now is the time to improve the situation as far as sports is concerned in the country.
 
  I was spending some time with these kids today and they are so competitive and eager to learn. If football or any sport has to improve, it’s important to have good coaches, who can teach players how to do it and give them the best possible knowledge. In order to specialise in sports, you need guidance. From providing facilities and more, our league brings players from  , to share our knowledge in the game and I believe that with a good partnership, even India can produce top football players. The sport needs India to start playing football aggressively and produce the next generation of competitive players.
 
 
 
 You see more and more people sitting at home and watching TV or computer these days. That’s fine as that is the future, but at the same time, we need to step out and spend some time on the pitch. Sports keep you healthy and that is very 
 important. I am not on social media and it’s fine.
 
 It has become a challenge. I am all for kids not getting mobile phones till a certain age. I don’t have kids yet (smiles), but even when I do, I will ensure that they step out. For instance, even in the case of my young cousins, we make sure that they take part in physical activities, get out, get some fresh air, get some sun and get dirty. I was a chubby kid and I couldn’t move fast on the football pitch, so, my coach made me play centre-back for six years. As Nemanja said, ‘It’s good to be tech-savvy and connected as it is the way of the future, but you can’t lose that human touch. You’ve got to step out, socialise with people, make friends face-to-face on the football pitch, put in a tackle, get a scratch or two — do something that makes you feel truly alive. Whenever I interact with young people, I encourage them to focus on health and fitness, too. Sports develop your personality. When people like Nemanja pass on that inspiration, kids like these (points to the children playing around) will fall more in love with football. It’s a good time for sports in India and not just football.
 
 
 
  In Europe, you see women playing a lot and it’s good for the sport. It empowers and makes them competitive. It helps in overall personality development and to see yourself getting better by the day helps everyone — be it men, women or children.
 
 
 
 Actors have to be good at everything! We just have to be the best at one thing, so what they do is more difficult. He has to sing, dance and act. We just have to play the game. Sometimes 
 we have to do commercials and I find it really difficult. Facing the camera isn’t easy at all. So, I have huge respect for actors, be it from Hollywood or Bollywood.
 
 
 
  I haven’t seen Bollywood films before but after today, I am going to see all of Ranveer’s films. I have heard he is good at what he does. I am enjoying this time here because Ranveer has such a great energy and spirit, it’s exciting to be around him. We did talk about some Bollywood dance moves and we have saved it for later, so I am looking forward to that (laughs).
 
 
 
  Ronaldo, because I’ve played with him.
 
  I am not answering this question! I don’t want to be diplomatic, but I think they both are great.
 
 
