Sreedher Rammamurthy, who set up the first community radio in Tamil Nadu at Anna University, speaks to TOI on how community radios are becoming more commercial and do not cater to the community anymore. Speaking about the challenges faced by community radio stations, he said the licensing system should become simpler if community radio is to become popular.

 How difficult was it to set up the first community radio station in Tamil Nadu?
 
 In 2004, when we set up the radio station at Anna University, we faced a lot of difficulty. One of the major struggles was to get the licence. While the information and broadcasting ministry is quick in its approvals, the telecommunication industry delays the process immensely. Apart from that, there was a lot of opposition from political parties as well. But we managed to set them up and the highest number of community radios today is set up in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Are community radios relevant today?
 
 In 2012, the number of radio stations was 170; now it is 208. In the past six years, 58 stations have been added, which is a good sign. But this number would have been much higher if the government had provided licences easily. Most of the radio stations are set up either by educational institutions, NGOs or in the agricultural sector. At least 50% of the broadcast time caters to the community and there is a visible change in many towns and villages across the country. Somehow in Tamil Nadu, the radios cater more to corporates and other people than the actual community. In some places, community radios earn a revenue of Rs2 crore every year, such as one located in Dindigul. They get good government advertisements and since they are located on a hill, their range is up to 90km.
 
 What is the major problem faced by the community radio stations?
 
 Almost all stations in Tamil Nadu are based in colleges that have untrained staff. Most of these people do not know the real meaning of community radio. Mass communication courses teach us about AM and FM but not about community radios and how to run them. They do not know what kind of programmes can be made and how to use it as a tool to change society. Also, many of them are not accessible, as none of these colleges and institutions will let common people inside. If a common labourer wants to do a show, he cannot. If his voice needs to be heard, even mobile phones can be used as a technology medium, but it is not done. The concept of micro advertisements, rural marketing and usage of various government schemes are not known.
 
 What can be done to improve their condition?
 
 We announce awards in various categories every year and in 2013, Rathinavani won for an innovative programme. So, we recognise and ensure that community radio stations learn from each other. There are some really good stations such as the one run by Kongu Engineering College at Perundurai near Erode and one at Kottampatti named Vayalaga Vanoli. These community radio stations are doing well as they actually cater to the community. Only if that is done, these stations will stay relevant.
 
 Some community radio stations have continued to run despite not performing? Do we plan to shut such non-performing stations?
 
 There are many such radios. Even the one functioning at TNAU had not functioned for several months. But the problem is there are no guidelines to close down the radio stations. While there is a detailed procedure on how to set them up, we have no guidelines to shut them.
 
 
