THANE: The calls at   have been skyrocketing over the past month with board exams fast approaching. It’s not just the load of syllabus completion and revision, but also a lot of stress and anxiety amongst students and parents. 

 Be it to seek solutions for their pre-examination jitters or actually ask these trained counsellors and psychologists to help them come up with last minute schedules for the revision of their entire syllabus in the limited holidays prior to the exam, a small section of students have been increasingly patronising these anonymous helplines.
 
 Tanuja  , project coordinator at TISS’s helpline  , said, “While we got 38 calls regarding academic and exam related worries in December, this number has grown to 50 this month. In addition to these calls we have received numerous chats and emails from students who either are looking for an avenue to vent out their anxiety or some guidance in planning their schedules prior to the exams.”
 
 These counsellors, however, point out that of the total academic cases they have received a majority of the calls are from the parents of these students who are looking for ways to handle their parental paranoia in a way that ensures their child is going on the right track.
 
 They assert that they are frequently bombarded with worries including their child’s lack of appetite, their laziness just days before the exams and how they are either studying too much or too little in comparison to their classmates and other students.
 
 “Parents get extra vigilant during exams, and tend to criticise and little time the child spends in front of the TV, or playing games, or reading non-academic books, or even sleeping ,” said a counsellor from the Maitra helpline run by the   in Thane.
 
 “Some on the other hand say their child is stressing too much and over exerting and ask us for ways to subtly convince their children to take a break,” she added.
 
 “Our first step is always to understand the caller’s feelings and the thoughts, whether it is a student or a parent. After getting them to relax a little, we ask them for the coping mechanisms they have been using till now and we then discuss solutions according,” Babre said.
 
 “If it is a case of anxiety, we come up with an anxiety management plan, if it the lack of planning, we work on a schedule and if it is a larger worry like career decisions we refer them to external career counsellors or even doctors of required,” she added.
 
 For the last few days all counsellors have a three-part advice for students — revise, eat and sleep well.
 
 
