PUNE:  , one of the 12 Peshwa-era Aali’s in  , remains the nerve-centre of trade after all these years. Though the looks of the street has evolved — concrete buildings have replaced old wadas and the traditional gold, silver and cloth merchants are now outnumbered by other traders — business here is still good.

 Rajan Gaikwad, who lives close to Vyavahar Aali, says, “In the Peshwa era, there were 12 types of trades. The practitioners of each of these trades stayed in one area, which was named after them. There was Tambat Aali for the coppersmiths, Shimpi Aali for tailors etc. Similarly, Vyavahar Aali got its name from the ‘trading.’ Families of most of the traders continue to live in Vyavahar Aali.”
 
 New occupants started moving into Vyavahar Aali only in the 1970’s. “Settlement at Vyavahar Aali started during the Peshwa time, over a 100 years ago. This has been the known place for trading for as many years. My family has been living in Vyavahar Aali for generations and we have seen this neighborhood change. Until about 50 years ago, this area was occupied mainly by cloth merchants and gold and silver traders. That is no longer the case,” says Anil  , who is a rickshaw driver by profession.
 
 Chaudhari says the city’s growth had prompted many traders to migrate to other parts of the city. “For example, the cloth traders from Vyavahar Aali occupied Laxmi Road while the gold and silver traders moved their shops to  . Despite migrating to other areas, most of these traders continue to deal in and expand their traditional family businesses,” he said.
 
 Smita Nandakumar Bhusale, another resident, talks of the areas evolution. “My family has been staying in Vyavahar Aali for very long. I came here after marriage in 1978. The street has changed a little with new buildings and modern shops coming up. They deal in different products and services. Now there is only one gold trader in the area. The other shops sell grocery and other daily goods. My husband is a cloth merchant and we too have moved our place of business to another area.”
 
 She said that even with the old traders gone, the new shops in the area are doing well and ensuring that Vyavahar Aali continues to flourish.
 
 
