HYDERABAD: The IT corridor dubbed as the new city will soon become part of  . At present, IT hub Manikonda and  , where the new international airport is situated, are gram panchayats.

 Recognising the rapid growth of the city in all directions, the TRS government wants to merge about 30 gram panchayats into Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). Apart from Manikonda and Shamshabad, gram panchayats expected to become part of the city civic body include Nizampet, Bachupally, Pragati Nagar,  , Kokapet, Vattinagulapally, Narsingi and Manchirevula.
 
 At present, Hitec City, Madhapur, Financial district and Gachibowli are part of Greater Hyderabad. With the merger of the 30 gram panchayats, the new city comprising the IT corridor will become totally integrated into Greater Hyderabad.
 
 With the IT department unveiling plans to develop new IT clusters in Budvel and areas like Poppalguda and Kokapet, the Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) and Panchayati Raj departments have begun the process of expanding the GHMC.
 
 
 
 
 List of 40 gram panchayats sent for merger consideration. They have begun activities like collecting census data of panchayats, revenue and other details from district panchayat officers of   and Medchal districts. “The state government wants to merge gram panchayats inside ORR and adjoining panchayat within 3-5 km radius. Details have been provided,” MV Reddy, Malkajgiri-Medchal district collector, said on Thursday.
 
 Sources said district panchayat officials of Ranga Reddy and Medchal have sent a list of about 40 gram panchayats adjoining GHMC limits to be considered for merger. He added that about 30 of them are likely to be merged into Greater Hyderabad. The rest may be merged with Nagar Panchayats in HMDA limits like Badangpet and Medchal.
 
 The government has been considering extending GHMC limits from 621sq km to 1,000 sq km for planned growth. The erstwhile Congress government moved a proposal in 2013 to include 36 gram panchayats in Greater Hyderabad. Notification was issued for merger for 36 panchayats like Shamshabad, Poppalguda, Kokapet, Narsingi, Jawaharnagar, Peeramchervu, Gandipet, Pragati Nagar, Meerpet. However, due to opposition from elected representatives and locals (fearing property tax hike), especially since polls were held to gram panchayats months before, the state government withdrew the proposal.
 
 After TRS came to power, some panchayats like Peerzadiguda, Boduppal, Meerpet and Almasguda became part of nagar panchayats like Boduppal and Badangpet. But many were left as gram panchayats.
 
 Another reason to merge surrounding gram panchayats with GHMC is to check illegal constructions. The municipal administration minister KTR has expressed unhappiness over illegal constructions in some panchayats such as Nizampet during his visits.
 
 “Many panchayats have developed haphazardly. There were scams in panchayats like Manikonda due to lack of monitoring. Some elected representatives and panchayat officials were hand-in-glove with builders,” a senior GHMC official said. “Since elections are due in some months, the Panchayati Raj department is likely to soon notify panchayats and begin merger process,” a district official from Ranga Reddy said.
 
