NEW DELHI: Who is a  ,  ? If you ask Delhiites, the answer would differ, depending on the person’s sex. While men believe   behind the wheel is synonymous with  ,   think patience is the key.

 According to Delhi Police, as reported in TOI on Tuesday, few women are charged for traffic offences, including drunk driving, speeding and jumping signals. Out of the 26 lakh challans issued for traffic violations in 2017, only 600 involved women. However, with a 1:71 ratio of women to men licence holders, the skewed numbers are not a surprise, say cops. “I think women are more responsible when they are driving. They tend to be more focused and don’t get distracted easily. Most of my girlfriends drive but they have not been fined for traffic violations,” says Saloni Hora, 25, a fashion consultant, who has been driving for the past four years without being pulled up by cops even once.
 
 MBA student Srishti Jain, 25, also believes that it’s time to change lanes when it comes to the notion that women make bad drivers. “Women generally tend to be more careful while driving and that is perceived as being imperceptive. Men are rasher,” says Jain, adding that women are judged more harshly for their driving since there are fewer women drivers on road and every small violation is highlighted.
 
 Another young woman, Mansi Dahiya, 22, endorses this view, albeit with a rider. As she pulls into a Connaught Place parking space, she says women from her generation drive better than the “older ones”. She explains: “I think aged women are insecure behind the wheel and can’t negotiate traffic as well as their male counterparts. They are also extra careful when it comes to parking, which makes people think women are bad at judging space and distance.”
 
 The men, however, still go by the belief that they are better drivers. Attendant Sonu Kumar, who is in-charge of parking at CP’s B block, says he encounters more problems correcting the position of women’s vehicles. “Men drive and park better. When ladies park here, we have to correct their cars’ position. Otherwise, it causes problems to other drivers,” he says.
 
 Osama Jafary, 27, an advertising professional, also believes that men are “inherently better” at gauging directions. “There is nothing sexist about the belief that men are better drivers. Women are good in certain creative fields, but men are better at more analytical things,” says Jafary.
 
 Rohit Baluja, president of Institute of Road Traffic Education, however, says the numbers available with Delhi Police are of “no value” to conclude who drives better. “Delhi Police hardly fines even 1% of the violations occurring daily. Realistic data can come only from the number of injuries reported in hospitals,” he says.
 
 
