 is undeniably an acting powerhouse, judging from his vast repertoire of films and theatre performances. But over the years, the actor has sort of become a leading voice against communal politics, questioning the central government’s stance in various issues. A week ago, the firebrand actor had also slammed the Kerala government, accusing it of suppressing an agitation by farmers in Keezhattur, Kannur.

 We caught up with Prakash Raj, on the sets of Odiyan in Palakkad, to know more about his #justasking campaign, his views on actors entering politics and more.
 
 
 Basically, I think everyone should ask questions. When you do that, you get to know your demands, ideas, inquisitiveness and extent of freedom. The minute you ask questions, you lose your fear; it liberates you. The people in power are answerable, and when you ask questions it makes them accountable. In fact, it forces them to be responsible. So, if you are going to stop asking or are forced not to raise your voice, the writer’s freedom, accountability, democracy and humanity are being curbed. Asking questions have not just political ramifications, it has social and economic implications too.
 
 
 It has always been so, just that it’s prevalent now. During the Emergency, there was a ban of many things. So, every dictatorship and democracy is censored. Censorship is enforced in a dictatorship and manipulated in a democracy – the effect is the same. What is happening right now is appalling and I don’t think it would make a good society. The point is that even now, despite people asking questions, nobody wants to listen to you or give you answers. When you ask questions, they snub it off. They are not able to do that to me because I am empowered and stronger. But I want the strength to be with the common man too. The #Justasking campaign is about reinforcing the fact to the people that they are the majority, unlike what others try to tell you. It’s about not isolating the one who asks questions but about being with them because it’s their basic right.
 
 More importantly, we can’t have 120 crore leaders here. What we need is the freedom to be citizens and to do that, we need a participative democracy and governance. The people should know who are accountable and they, in turn, should know that these people won’t let them off until they answer. That’s the kind of socio-political awareness I want to bring in among the people.
 
 
 Everybody. The youth is an important part of our society but now there are no jobs and consequently no future. The problems are just going to snowball; take the farmers’ issues for instance. In the last four years, those in power have just made a mockery of the system with their communal politics. For any government that would follow, it’s going to be a Herculean task to set things right. See, none of the dictatorships or fascist regimes have gone on to rule forever. They will exit. My point is that the wounds they inflict will take generations to heal. I am worried about that.
 
 
 It’s not about a particular government. Anybody in power needs to have a dialogue with the people. You cannot stifle any movement by force. That’s not something I am very comfortable with. It’s a farmers’ issue and let’s not put any colour or ideology to it. Every party has an ideology but once you are elected, sometimes you have to set aside that ideology to govern. You have to look at people as human beings.
 
 
 Anybody can come into politics, it just depends on their manifestoes. For that, we will have to wait. I have known these people personally. Their intentions are good. Let’s see if they are going to be the change the country needs.
 
 
 No. I believe I am in politics as a citizen of the country. I realised that I need not be in electoral politics. I would rather be with the people, leading awareness, which I think is the need of the hour. I am meeting people, connecting lawyers, doctors, writers and youngsters from across the country. It is going to be my journey for the next 10 years, where we will keep discussing, fighting and standing by the people who ask questions.
 
 
 
 Mahanati is an interesting biopic; a good assessment, at this point of time, of the magic and mystery of who Savithri was. I like actors who are trying to metamorphosise themselves, trying to get to know what cinema was back then, the thought processes of the people, what relationships meant then, what their personal choices were and the roles they played. It’s commendable for actors like Dulquer and Keerthy to take up these roles.
 
 
 Nothing has changed in terms of our camaraderie. The respect has been consistent and has only grown. We have bonded well. While we have not worked together in the last two decades, we have always met. I remember when Kanchivaram was screened in Toronto, he flew down all the way from Buffalo, New York, for the film and for his friend Priyadarshan, its director. He did it just to give us all a surprise and watch the movie. That’s our friendship.
 
