Even in her teens, she would mentally step back from a group of friends or family members, chatting desultorily or discussing politics, and quickly scribble on a piece of paper which she would then crush into a ball and aim it at a trash can. Close friends would pick them up only to discover a verse in Tamil, poignant and deep. One such piece of poetry by   made a strong impression on a close friend, which he filed away in his memory.

 
 (I listened to my father and wore a frock); 
 (I listened to my father and tied a ribbon in my hair); 
 (wore bangles on my wrist); 
 went to the school he chose); 
 (watched the movies he chose); 
 (the food he chose); 
 (the half-sari he chose); 
 (met the groom he chose); 
 (married the man he chose); 
 (I conducted myself as he wished); 
 (some day I will be myself)…”
 
 The last wistful line in the verse perhaps explains her assertion today as a politician, and her final and inevitable act of emerging from the shadows of her father and DMK president M  .
 
 
  
 
 On December 3, 2011 when Kanimozhi returned home after her six-month jail term in the 2G spectrum case, her supporters hailed her as a ‘poonkodi’ (flower stalk) that had transformed into ‘porkodi’ (warrior). They demanded that she be rewarded for her ‘sacrifice’.
 
 On December 23, 2017, when she returned home after a special court acquitted her and A Raja in the case, the reception by party workers was equally warm, though brief and less boisterous. This was no reflection on their acceptance of Kanimozhi as an integral part of the party, just an indication of DMK’s realpolitik under working president and Kanimozhi’s half brother M K Stalin.
 
 Her father had been her guiding force since her entry into politics in 2007, replacing   as the patriarch’s eyes and ears in the capital. She almost veered off the political course set by her father when she was dragged into the  . But, buoyed by the moral support of her parents and a small group of supporters, she threw herself into her new role – that of DMK’s women’s wing secretary, leader of the party in Rajya Sabha, secretary of the arts, literature and rationalist forum, and member of the party’s highest body, the 30-member high-level committee.
 
 Rajya Sabha member T K S Elangovan sees her as “a good leader, a voracious reader, who prepares meticulously for the Rajya Sabha.” Former Rajya Sabha member and another close associate K P Ramalingam agrees. “I have associated with her from 2010 to 2016. Her commitment to Parliament is impressive. Even on days when she had to be present in the trial court for the 2G case, she would finish it and come to RS,” said Ramalingam.
 
 In 2011, when she returned to Chennai after her imprisonment, her supporters hailed her as ‘future CM’. But, journalist Sudhangan says, “I would say there is a question mark on her political future. I will be surprised if she and Elangovan get nominations again to Rajya Sabha.” For her part, Kanimozhi brushes away questions on the political undercurrents between her and Stalin.
 
 She is the only child of Karunanidhi to have inherited his literary skills — an asset sacrificed at the altar of politics. But, she doesn’t hold a position in the DMK’s trust, which is crucial to being part of the party’s inner coterie. “Kanimozhi has concern for people, not as a politician but as a human being,” says Sudhangan. Atheart, she is a poet who tries hard to be a politician.
 
 Over the years, Kanimozhi built for herself a modest support base within DMK. Admittedly, Karunanidhi’s favourite child has matured as a politician. But, a decade after the shy poetess metamorphosed into a self-effacing politician, Kanimozhi’s political domain is likely to remain restricted. restricted.
 
