KOLKATA: Here’s a cause for concern if you are a regular at the Rabindra   every morning. The brisk walk across the ‘lung of Kolkata’ is doing no good to your health as you are inhaling toxic air in every breath. On Friday morning, the PM2.5 level inside the   was 322µg/m3 on Friday morning, which is far beyond the permissible limit of 60µg/m3.

 The reading was taken by NGO World for Better Living (WBL) at 7am on Friday. It has recorded only particulate matter, considering other pollutants — like SO2 or NO2 — are absorbed by trees.
 
  
  
 
 “Noticing thick black smoke engulfing pockets of the Lake over the past few days, we decided to conduct our study and were shocked to find the PM2.5 level. I think our homes in   or   were safer than Sarobar this morning. This is against the norms of eco sensitive zones,” said WBL president SM Ghosh.
 
 Acknowledging that the Lake is going through unprecedented pollution levels this winter, Sumita  , one of the six members of the high court-appointed monitoring committee that oversees conservation of Sarobar, said, “We have been campaigning against the polluting factors at the Lake, but to no avail. The Lake couldn’t have been so polluted without human intervention.”
 
 “People are already tense with the   air quality index (AQI) readings. What about the Lake? Today’s figure clearly indicates that instead of breathing in clean air, all we are getting is toxic air,” said retired government official Gautam Chatterjee, a Lake regular.
 
 “Morning walks in the Lake are considered the best health tonic. But physical exercise – something as simple as jogging — in such poor air can trigger all sorts of diseases,” warned pulmonologist Raja Dhar.
 
 Though environmentalists attributed the pollution to the laying of roads and paving the sidewalks, KMDA refused to blame construction activity for the pollution. “The beautification and plantation drive is in keeping with the NGT order,” an official of KMDA, the custodian of the Lake, said.
 
 
