Before the start of the  , it was decided that all the matches of hosts England’s group would be held at the Wembley. But in an interesting turn of events, the game between Uruguay and France had to be shifted to White City Stadium. The reason; the Wembley owners refused to cancel the traditional greyhound dog racing scheduled for the day. The World Cup was on English shores, the birthplace of the modern game, for the first time, but priorities, you know!

 
 Maybe, the World Cup organizers were showing their gratitude to Pickles, the dog which accidentally found the missing Jules Rimet Trophy under a hedge after it had gone missing from a public display before the start of the World Cup. There was more to follow. The opener between England and Uruguay got delayed because seven English players had forgotten to take their identity cards from hotel rooms and policemen in motorcycles had to rush to the hotel to retrieve them and get things underway at the Wembley.
 
 England, coached by Alf Ramsey, advanced to the semifinals without conceding a single goal as the ‘Wingless Wonders’ with the two Bobbys -- Moore and Charlton -- leading the pack, raised hopes of a nation. In the semis, England were up against Portugal who had fashioned a miraculous comeback against North Korea in the quarters. Portugal were down 0-3 very early in the piece against giantkillers North Korea, who had earlier caused the biggest upset in the history of the championship with a 1-0 win over Italy. However, Portugal had Eusebio in their ranks. He scored four goals as Portugal prevailed 5-3 against North Korea to make the semifinals in their first-ever World Cup.
 
 Eusebio scored from a spot-kick in the semifinal, but a brace from Charlton took England to the final. With nine goals, Eusebio would finish as the top-scorer of the World Cup, outshining Pele whose Brazil failed to go past the group stage in their bid for a third straight crown. Pele was targeted by oppositions and was at the end of some nasty tackles in an injury ridden campaign.
 
 West Germany, with the indomitable Franz Beckenbauer in their side, also moved into the final beating Soviet Union in the semis. Before the final, Beckenbauer was believed to have sent a message to Charlton saying, “Don’t even try it. Coming out to face me is a waste of your time.” But Geoff Hurst’s hat-trick would have the last say as England trumped German 4-2 in a final for the ages. The debate about Hurst’s second goal — did it cross the line or not? — will never see an end but all that mattered was the Russian linesman Bakhramov’s call went in England’s favour and a host nation won the cup for the third time after Uruguay in 1930 and Italy in 1934.
 
 The 1966 World Cup was the first one to have a mascot — a lion called Willie. The African nations boycotted the edition as a protest after being asked to play a playoff round after the initial qualifiers.
 
 
