COIMBATORE: City police are warning   users to beware of data-skimming devices after they recovered one from an ATM owned by a public sector bank in the city.

 A techie had found the device inserted in the ATM owned by the State Bank of India on   at Ramanathapuram, police sources said. “After drawing cash, when he pulled out the ATM card, the skimmer came out of the slot. He immediately alerted the cybercrime cell of the city police,” a police officer said.
 
 A police team led by cybercrime inspector N   that inspected the place also recovered a small camera attached to the machine. “While checking the ATM machine, we noticed a micro camera attached above the keypad. The miscreants had installed it to record the PIN numbers entered by customers. We have seized the camera also,” Mallika told TOI.
 
 The team sought the help of   authorities and accessed the   footage from the ATM centre. It showed two men fixing the skimmer and the micro camera in the machine on April 5 at 1.13pm. “We are trying to find the identity of those people. Luckily, as they have not collected the recorded data from the skimmer and the micro camera, those who used the ATM need not worry,” Mallika said. Police have formed special teams to nab the suspects, she added.
 
 Cybercrime cell police have registered a case against the suspects under Sections 66, 66 (c) read with 84 (c) of the Information Technology Act based on a complaint from SBI regional manager  .
 
 Meanwhile, city police commissioner   said that most of the banks are not bothered about the issue as they have outsourced ATM operations. “ATM machines are installed and maintained by private companies. Private operators are again employed for cash replenishment operations. CCTV cameras fixed there are maintained by some other company. As the money is insured, most of the banks are not bothered,” he said.
 
 “We request the bank authorities to check the ATM machines often. They have to take necessary steps to prevent miscreants from fixing skimmer devices in the machines. The banks should use anti-skimming devices to protect their customers. I also request people to alert us if they find skimmer devices,” the officer added.
 
 
