NEW DELHI: Unable to live with his second wife any longer in Delhi even as his first wife back home was asking him to dump her led a physiotherapist to allegedly kill the former and put her body in a bed  . It was discovered a few days back at their Tughlaqabad home and the police launched a probe.

 The accused, Suresh Singh, had planned the murder meticulously, even taking into account that the body would decompose slowly in winter and he would get more time to think about his course of action. After killing the woman, Maria Massey (30) — who had even changed her name to a Hindu one, Savitri Mehra — he had fled to Uttarakhand and was lying low. However, the police tracked him down using local intelligence. 
 
 Singh’s plan unravelled when Maria’s ex-husband, Usman, was approached by her brother when she did not take calls from him. Usman went to the house to check but found it locked. So, he called up Singh, who did not take his call but messaged him saying that he was out of station with Maria and would not be able to take his call. His suspicion having been aroused, Usman returned to the house with some acquaintances and broke open the door to make the horrible discovery. The police were called in. “A case was registered at the Govindpuri police station and a team was formed to track the case,” said Chinmoy Biswal, DCP (south-east). 
 
 Usman told the police that he had married Maria in 2005 but they separated in 2012 with mutual consent. Singh had met Maria on facebook and they fell in love after a few chats. They met a couple of times and decided to live together at the Tughlaqabad house. Meanwhile, Singh had gone to his home in Uttarakhand where he was made to marry another woman, Lata, by his family. His facebooks posts alerted Maria and she began to put pressure on him to marry her. Finally, he gave in and married her too. 
 
 After Maria’s body was found, a police team was dispatched to Singh’s native place, Bageshwar, in Uttrakhand. Suresh got to know about the arrival of the team at his village and tried to flee to Nepal but was intercepted by the team and arrested. He reportedly told the cops that he had murdered Maria on January 11 by smothering her with a pillow, wrapped a quilt around her body and put it in the   box. He then fled to his village. 
 
 He said he had hatched the diabolical plan when his first wife, Lata, got to know about his marriage with Maria and asked him to leave her. Suresh, too, was not too keen to stay with Maria and wanted to get rid of her.
 
 Suresh has completed a four-and-a-half year degree course in physiotherapy (B.Sc Physiotheraphy) from a private university in Dehradun and has done a six-month internship at a well-known hospital in Delhi. He was now working on his own.
 
 
