 India captain   believes India will be in better shape, and mentality, if players are provided with better coaches and infrastructure at the club level before they get together to prepare for the   in January.
 
  Coach Stephen Constantine is planning a month-long camp to prepare the team for the tough assignment in  . In 2011, when India last qualified for the continental showpiece, the All India   Federation (AIFF) got the team together for six months, without much success, though, as India lost all three games against Australia (0-4), South Korea (1-4) and Bahrain (2-5).
  
  “I think the AIFF is doing whatever they can. I just hope all the ISL and I-League clubs function well, and they have really good coaching and infrastructure. That’s very important. Why do big teams like Germany, Brazil, Italy don’t need big camps? Because they are playing in good leagues and (under) good coaches. When they join, they only have to strategise and then they are good to go.
  
  “In the past, we always needed bigger camps. If all the players are training well, then come December when we get together, we will be in better shape and mentality,” said Chhetri, who will lead India’s charge in UAE.
  
  India will fancy their chances of progressing beyond the group stage after being paired with hosts UAE, Thailand and Bahrain in a relatively weaker group. Two of the three teams are lower-ranked than India but Chhetri warned their rivals have huge pedigree.
  
  “For a team like India, it’s very important that we play the Asian Cup, that we keep qualifying for the big tournaments. Once we keep qualifying, we will get a chance to rub shoulders with the best in Asia.
  
  “At the moment, we have achieved the first target. The second is to do well. No matter which teams we meet, it would always be difficult,” said the India captain.
  
  Chhetri was among the four draw assistants when the final groups were assigned during a lavish ceremony at the iconic Burj Khalifa in Dubai. No Indian footballer has got such an honour in the past, sharing space with the likes of Iranian legend Ali Daei, former China and Manchester City star Sun Jihai and Philippines forward Philip Younghusband.
  
  “I felt really honoured. I happened to be in the UAE with my wife. It was a big moment for both us. It’s not every day that you get invited for an event like this one. That’s what made us happier. People are taking note of Indian football. Five to eight years ago, this wouldn’t have been possible,” said Chhetri.
