NEW DELHI: Taking note of the hazard posed to residents, the   has stayed   of   by the   at a site near  .

 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar noted that EDMC, before using the 11 acres land near Geeta Colony, failed to conduct an environment impact assessment.
 
 “Prima facie there is substance in the contentions of the petitioners that the garbage disposal and dumping will cause irreparable and irretrievable damage to the environment and well-being of the residents,” the bench noted. The court after examining the photographs filed by residents added that contrary to claims of EDMC that it is a just a temporary site acquired from   to dump silt, “it is not silt being dumped at the site but municipal garbage.”
 
 HC acted on the petition filed by residents of nearby localities who were most affected by the daily dumping. Appearing for the residents, advocate Manoj V George highlighted that on a land adjacent to a thickly populated area at a residential colony and in close proximity to the river bed, the corporation has started dumping garbage in the only lung space available in the area, putting the health of the residents at risk and also completely ruining the river bed.
 
 The petitioners also complained that neither of the affected residents or their representatives were asked for views nor any environmental impact assessment was conducted.
 
 “The petitioners represent the residents of Shastri Nagar, Rani Garden, Sunder Park, Sarojni Naidu Park, Geeta Colony, New Lahore Colony, Dharm Mandir etc, who are facing unbearable environmental hazard due to the pollution caused by unauthorised encroachment and unorganised storage, dumping and burning of garbage kept from L M Bundh to Geeta Colony,” the plea argued.
 
 In the plea, the petitioners informed the court that due to the new dumping site, these residents are badly affected “considering kabadis and rag pickers burn tyres, rubber, plastic bags and insulated wires from morning to evening on the road facing the colonies. This dumping will endanger the biodiversity of the area and will cause serious problem for life and existence of both humans and animals.”
 
 
