The recovery of the antique idols of king   and his queen Lokamadevi from the Calico museum in Ahmedabad is part of a bigger operation by the Tamil Nadu idol wing to track down 20 other missing antique statues, allegedly stolen from the Big Temple in Thanjavur.

 A source said officials had put on hold the investigation into the theft of the 11 idols to focus on the two bronze idols in March. “If the wing had probed into the other idols, the investigation of the two main idols would have been diluted. Now, the probe will commence into the theft the other idols,” said a source.
 
 
 The deputy superintendent of police S Venkataraman of the idol wing had mentioned in his complaint to the Thanjavur police on March 2 has listed out the statues stolen from the   in Thanjavur several years ago. The gold statues of   and Shethira Balar, four silver idols of Vasudevar, and a panchaloha idol of ‘Ardhanareeswarar’, were among the main statues stolen.
 
 The complaint alleged that none of the four panchaloha idols donated to the temple in the 10th century by Kundhavai Nachiar, sister of king Rajarajacholan, were found during the investigation. Besides, two idols of  , statues of Vanavanmahadevi and Pon Maaligai Thunjinathevar were also missing.
 
 Meanwhile, idol wing inspector general of police A G   told reporters in Chennai on Thursday that 20 idols are missing from the Big Temple. “Around 20 idols are missing from the temple. We will be retrieving every statue,” he said, adding that no arrests have been made yet.
 
 Enquiries revealed an attempt of a cover-up by temple officials by replacing the statue of Rajarajacholan with that of his son Rajendra Chola in the Mahamandapam. “While the board mentioned Rajaraja Chola, the inscriptions on the idol revealed it was ‘Peria Koil Rasa Rajendra Chola Rasa’. It raised suspicions and the investigation was intensified leading to the recovery of the two statues,” said a police officer.
 
 It is yet to be decided whether the retrieved idols will be installed in the same place.
 
 (With inputs from  )
 
