JAIPUR: Family of 23-year-old   Singh Rathore, a native of Jhotwara in Jaipur, is running from pillar to post to find their son who is missing in   in Saudi Arabia since October 2017.

 Be it Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s portal or meeting Union minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore to external affairs minister  , the family has done everything, still they have not been able to get anything concrete to trace the missing boy. 
 
 Vikramaditya had left for Saudi Arabia through an agency on October 4. He spoke to his family last on October 20 and told them that he was mistreated as his employers have also taken his mobile phone.
 
 “He told us that he had borrowed a phone from his colleague to speak to us,” said  , 61-year-old father of the youth while talking to TOI on Saturday. 
 
 Singh added that organisations like Shree Rajput Karni Sena and others are agitating for a non-issue and said that they should instead opt for issues like tracing his mission son. “Film pe vivaad kar lenge aur yahan ek Rajput bachcha gayab hai kissi ko matlab nahin,” Singh said in anger.
 
 Singh stated that expecting the worst, the family including him and Vikramaditya’s elder brother Harshvardhan went to Delhi and met Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore for his intervention.
 
 “Besides, we had written and uploaded documents about my son on Prime Minister’s portal. We used things like Twitter to urge the Union government to help us in tracing our son. Nothing is been done except a reply saying the employer had committed to send my son back on January 17,” said a dejected Singh. 
 
 In Vikramditya’s family, his mother   (58) is ailing and she was admitted to hospitals following problems of restlessness and low blood pressure. “We had visited the Karni Mata temple at Deshnok and other temples to pray for the safety and wellbeing of our son,” he added. 
 
 “Kahin se koi jawab nahin mil raha (No response is coming from anywhere),” said Singh while wiping off his tears. 
 
 Singh added that Vikramditya had gone to Riyadh through an agent Mukesh Singh Chauhan. “We were promised that my son will be paid nearly 50,000 to 60,000 per month in Saudi Arabia’s currency. He had also asked my son to sharpen his English and Computer skills and we paid nearly Rs 2.5 lakh to him. A case of cheating was also lodged at Jhotwara police station still police too have not taken any action,” said Singh. 
 
 Family alleged that be it embassy of Saudi Arabia in India or officials everyone is assuring them that their son would be back in a week, still nothing concrete is coming out. “Hum to bas umeed kar saktey hain(We can only hope),” said Singh. 
 
 
