 is a hub of cultural activities and it is not unusual to see folk musicians and dancers performing there while shoppers browse through the nearby shops. However, on Monday evening, the visitors were treated to something more exotic - ballet masters from the iconic Paris Opera Ballet. Dancers from the troupe - regarded as the oldest ballet company in the world - are in India along with ballet masters from other European copmpanies for two performances - in Delhi and Mumbai - organized by  . Before their Delhi performance, DT took Paris Ballet Legends' creative director   and fellow dancer   to visit Dilli Haat. 

  "Some 15 years ago, I had taken part in a dance festival where we recreated the ancient Silk Route with dancers performing their traditional dance forms from various countries along that route. That is when I first came across Indian dance forms. Ever since then, I have always wanted to come and perform here and see the culture. So it’s good that I finally have that chance now," Frederic told us. 
 
 
  
  Frederic and Agnès with Chhau folk dancers from West Bengal (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  At Dilli Haat, not only did the two dancers take in the sights and indulged in some shopping, but also applauded and interacted with chhau dancers from West Bengal, who were performing there.
 
 Talking about Indian classical and folk dances, Agnès said, "The dances here are so much about the beat. They are so energetic and very close to the ground in their technique, which is very different from what we in ballet are used to. It is refreshing." Both the dancers say they are familiar with various Indian dance forms but wouldn't want to bet on whether they would be able to perform one. "Indian dance is very different from what we are used to. While flying to India, I watched a Bollywood movie that had elaborate song and dance routines and I was amazed at how expressive your dance is. We would have difficulty trying to do something like that," said Frederic.
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  
 
 
  Even though the smog and pollution irked the dancers a bit, they were all praises for the mystique and colour of Delhi. Agnès told us, "What I truly loved about India and Delhi is that anything can happen here. This place is full of surprises. One moment you can be walking in a modern part of the town with modern buildings, and you take a turn and suddenly, there is an ancient temple or monument that takes you back in time. The colour, vibrancy, and culture of this place are amazing." Frederic added, "What makes it better is that I found the people here to be warm and friendly. They smile when you look at them. In Paris, even though the people are lovely, they are more reserved. If you think about it, the smog is harmful, but adds to the mystique of the city, giving it a very noir feeling."
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
