KOLKATA: Architect Balkrishna Vithaldas Doshi has always believed in chance enocounters. So when he got an opportunity to create a housing project in Kolkata in 1995, he created spaces that could lead to chance encounters between strangers that could blossom into relationships. He repeated it yet again in 2006 when a second project came his way.

 Doshi was named the winner of the Pritzker architecture prize on Wednesday. But India’s most celebrated architect believes the communities he has created in each of his projects over the decades is more precious than the prized award that he has just landed.
 
 “My works are an extension of my life, philosophy and dreams, trying to create treasury of the architectural spirit,” Doshi said after winning the prize.
 
 Industrialist Harsh Neotia, who commissioned the city’s first social housing project, Udayan, says Doshi incorporated the ideas of how people should live and communities should function into his projects and motivated human behaviour.
 
 “He created communities in every project. While he was creating aesthic and functional homes, he was also interested in life beyond the comfort of their walls. He thus created spaces in landscaped courtyards, set up a bench here, put up a sculpture there for neighbours to sit and contemplate, thereby creating an opportunity to bump into another neighbour who can potentially become a friend. And it has happened that way. Strangers have become friends, complexes have become communities,” said Neotia.
 
 Architect Abin Chaudhuri, who has had chance encounters with Doshi, says it is his simplicity and philosophy that has inspired many. “Doshi believes a house should be well lit and ventilated. But even within the lit-up spaces, there must be an area of darkness that highlights the light. I try to design my projects in a manner that there is a dark space to accentuate the light,” he said.
 
 One thing that Doshi always tells students was that to be a good architect, it is necessary to be a good human being. Many who have been inspired by him have taken up architecture as a subject and not merely a profession.
 
 Doshi’s student  , who teaches at the Jadavpur University’s architecture department, says what sets his teacher and mentor apart from others is his contribution to academics.
 
 “He didn’t just design buildings, he built institutions. He is the first founder director of the School of Architecture, Ahmedabad; first founder director of the  , first founder dean of the Centre for   (whose building he also designed), founder member of the Visual Arts Centre, Ahmedabad and first founder director of the Kanoria Centre for Arts, Ahmedabad. He is forever keen to pass on the learning,” said Das.
 
