Nagpur: CBSE has sought help from school principals to take on   on social media, as it faces a multi-pronged attack both online and offline for its decision to conduct re-exams for two board papers.

 On Friday morning, principals received a message from their Regional Offices (RO) to be on the lookout for a message which claims that CBSE will hold re-exam for two more papers. CBSE wants schools to track down the original sender using the back trailing method.
 
 Principals have been asked to note down the name and number of the sender and then request him/her to provide details of where the message came from. “Trail request may be sent to the sender of the message and the chain may be sent to the sender. The chain may continue till the original sender,” CBSE’s written instructions mentioned. All principals have been asked to send CBSE the information collected through the back trailing method.
 
 Schools have been urged not to believe any rumours and to “get information confirmed from CBSE website before circulating any sensitive information”.
 
 No principal wanted to speak on record and be seen as disagreeing with CBSE in the current environment, but shared with TOI their reservations. Though they appreciated CBSE’s efforts to ward of rumours, principals said the battle is already a lost one. 
 
 A principal who did not wish to be identified, said, “Social media is like a vast ocean, how will we keep tracking the sender. There is no guarantee that this chain trail message will continue right till the end. The principal will be stuck doing extra paperwork and may even have to follow it up later.” 
 
 Another principal shared similar view saying this will be more of a distraction. “Right now, all our efforts and efficiency should be focused on conducting the re-exam and CBSE should focus on ensuring a foolproof system. Lakhs of rumours float on social media and only the authorities with proper mandate can control it, not principals,” she said.
 
 A schoolteacher said, “CBSE’s silence is leading to all rumours. Just like politicians and film stars, the board should take to Twitter or Facebook and put out regular updates. Once authentic news is available in plenty, the rumours will die a natural death.” 
 
 
