PUNE: Affordable housing in the Pune metropolitan region is set for the necessary push with the state government clearing the public private partnership ( ) model in the sector last week.

 With 167 housing projects under the   (PMAY), the   (PMRDA) expects more private developers to get active in the area spread a little over 7,000 sqkm.
 
 “There are the existing projects in our area. Now with many town planning schemes coming up, we hope to have many private developers in the sector,” PMRDA commissioner   said. 
 
 Affordable housing through the PPP model will be executed in the Pune metropolitan region with over 167 housing projects. First-time home buyers, under PMAY, can fill up forms to be made available online. PMRDA will connect them to banks for further processing for availing of the PMAY benefits.
 
 “There are 2.58 lakh units in these housing projects. With more players in the sight, we can have more affordable housing units,” Gitte said.
 
 The recent directive will be a positive move for the area with infrastructure projects such as the ring road,   and town planning schemes to come in years to come. To implement these projects under PPP model, Gitte said, a special workshop will be held on January 22 with the developers and government officials.
 
 Confederation of   Developers Association of India’s (Credai) Maharashtra chapter president Shantilal Kataria told TOI that they have been pushing for the PPP model and the government’s initiative was a good move. “There should be enough publicity for the scheme as the benefits should reach the end user,’’he said. 
 
 Developer   said the circular issued by the state government in continuation with the PPP model guidelines issued by the housing ministry was good initiative. He, however, suggested further amendments, proposals for which have been submitted to the housing secretary.
 
 “We welcome the reduction of stamp duty to Rs 1,000 for units meant for the economically weaker section. It is still unclear whether it is applicable to units constructed by the private sector,” Kulkarni said, adding that the confusion over the environment clearance procedure should also be removed to boost the ailing sector.
 
 
