VADODARA: A group of concerned citizens have once again raised concerns over   (VMC) dumping construction debris in Vishwamitri, a charge that was categorically denied by the municipal commissioner   on Friday.

 While environmental activist Rohit Prajapti claimed that dumping continued on the river stretch near the Kalaghoda circle on Thursday, Rao said that the project of re-constructing the ‘critical bottleneck’ of   was necessary and done with due approvals.
 
 “The VMC carrying out this activity especially during the breeding season of crocodiles is not only violating environmental rules but also damaging the city’s identity,” said Prajapati. 
 
 The activists have decided to approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT) alleging that the VMC has violated tribunal’s interim order that was passed in May last year. 
 
 “Also, the state environment impact assessment authority (SEIAA) had last year directed the VMC to not do any construction activity by the river bank. But the civic body is not just widening the Kala Ghoda bridge but also removing vegetation and filling up creek of the river,” said Prajapati, who forwarded a complaint to the union ministry of environment, state forests and environment department,   and Vadodara district collector among others. 
 
 Last month, the civic body had stopped dumping after members of the group had objected to the exercise raising environmental concerns. The civic body has already stopped the Vishwamitri Riverfront Development Project after Prajapati approached the NGT.
 
 In Whatsapp message sent in several groups, Rao said, “The wrong design, wide pillars and even wider foundation of the bridge along with the unauthorized structures beneath it blocks more than 60 % of the river-bed. This leads to heavy water-logging upstream and forceful jetting of water downstream both resulting in floods during monsoon.”
 
 Rao, who rubbished concerns on the impact on crocodile population and damage to the river, said that the VMC’s own environment experts have explained the project to group of persons who are objecting to the project.
 
 “Efforts are being made to use various platforms to selectively defame the VMC and derail the work,” he said, adding that protecting the ecosystem, enhancing the green-cover, rejuvenating the water bodies and minimizing the impact of urbanization on environment is at the core of the VMC’s vision for the city. 
 
 “Ironically, ignoring the larger picture, we are seeing how individual instances of inevitable removal of a tree or any minor-work undertaken in larger interest of the city is shown out-of-context, targeted and sensationalized,” said Rao. 
 
 
