PUNE: From the case of builder DS   involving allegations of cheating thousands of investors to people pledging fake   for loans, submitting bogus documents for loans from banks and unscrupulous elements vanishing with payments worth crores of rupees and not delivering the goods, the scale of economic offences in the city escalated in 2017. 

 Such cases registered a sharp rise from 16 cases in 2016 to 79 in 2017. 
 
 The Pune police said properties and cash worth Rs 2,168 crore were secured through attachment and other legal steps in these crimes and a concerted effort continues to clamp down on economic offenders in the cases registered in the previous year.
 
  
  
 
 Police commissioner   on Friday said the number of economic offences rose in 2017. “ We have taken strong action against offenders and have frozen Rs 2,168 crore worth assets in these cases. Legal action is going on,” she added.
 
 Some big cases in which crores of rupees were involved were registered by the Pune police in 2017 and suspects were booked for cheating by selling ‘dreams’ of handsome interest on investment in some cases.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (cyber & economics)   said the economic offences wing of the Pune police has registered cases in which some builders and traders were booked for luring people with handsome returns on investment in their projects or policies.
 
 All cases have been registered under the provisions of   (MPID) Act,   said.
 
 In 2017, police wrote letters to financial institutions and property registration offices, ordering them to freeze the accounts or property of the suspects .
 
 Hiremath said they froze the accounts of D S Kulkarni which had cash and assets worth Rs 1,800, properties and cash worth Rs 300 crore of Temple Rose real estate, property and cash worth Rs 30 crore belonging to  , property and cash of Rs 10 crore in a cheating case registered with the Koregaon Park police station, Rs 5 crore worth properties and cash of Dhanada Corporation among others.
 
  “Detailed reports have been sent to the courts,” Hiremath added.
 
 
