Mumbai: The Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta (IIM-C) and   have formed a partnership and announced a   certificate programme in   to educate and empower the new generation of family-owned businesses in India. The programme’s core objective is to furnish scions with the understanding of tackling new challenges as well as helping them to professionalise their management by adopting latest business management techniques and practices. 

 With the business environment in the country being highly dynamic at present, family-owned businesses — as well as new business initiatives by young entrepreneurs — should align with professional ways of operating their businesses to stay ahead in the competition.
 
 The programme equips them with management practices and concepts contexualised to the need of a family managed business. It also offers them with in-depth exposure to theories related to developing new strategies as well as professional management for sustenance and growth of business. The 12-month programme includes two days of classes every week along with 10 days of on-campus sessions at  , Calcutta. It also includes interactive discussions, live projects and assignments as well as personal coaching to carve out a managerial niche. The programme format aims at providing opportunities to participants to apply learning into practice simultaneously.
 
 “With a greater number of professionals setting up their business ventures in India, it is important to impart them with exceptional managerial capabilities to help them reap the benefits of emerging opportunities. IIM, Calcutta’s family business management & entrepreneurship programme — in partnership with TSW — will help them become business leaders of tomorrow with a comprehensive exposure to modern business practices,” said Times Professional Learning president Anish Srikrishna.
 
 Speaking on the benefits which the programme offers to family business owners, Programme director Professor Prafulla Agnihotri said, “IIM, Calcutta has a legacy of producing exceptional business heads and TSW’s strong pan-India presence will enable us to further help entrepreneurs leverage from our expertise.”
 
 More details can be obtained from the site http://bit.ly/2HSaPPJ or by calling 7400084666.
 
 
