PUNE: Manisha Vanawe, a resident of   in Hadapsar, is worried about the health of her two school-going sons, recently treated for jaundice. The doctor she visited with her children told her that contaminated water was one of the reasons for their illness.

 Vanawe said many children in the area were suffering from water-borne diseases. Reason: contaminated water in borewells and other water sources.
 
 Residents of the area stressed that inadequately treated sewage water flowing into the baby canal — starting from   jackwell and flowing through Hadapsar towards Phursungi — had adversely affected the groundwater quality and the borewells. They stressed water had a bad odour, too.
  
  
 Umesh Misal, a resident of the area, said the canal had been there for many years. The problem aggravated in the past two years, when the civic administration started releasing treated sewage in the canal from the Mundhwa jackwell.
 
 “The   ( ) is supposed to treat the sewage before releasing it in the canal. But the blackish water and its foul smell prove that untreated sewage is being released,” he said.
 
 The civic administration has installed a pipeline from the Mundhwa jackwell site to Sadesatranali to carry the treated sewage water. Thereafter, the water flows into the open canal and goes up to Patas for irrigational use. The civic administration is expected to release about 6 TMC treated sewage annually for irrigation.
 
 Kapil Shevle, who owns a small house near Sadesatranali, said the corporation supplied drinking water every day, but many people were dependent on borewell water for washing clothes and utensils.
 
 “The poor quality of borewell water has damaged utensils and clothes. People often complain of stomach ache because of the bad quality of water. We always find some particles in the water drawn from the borewell,” he said.
 
 Local corporator   said the contaminated water was affecting the groundwater, tapped by about 8,000 homes in almost a 2km stretch. He said the canal had become a place for dumping garbage. The administration has no control over its maintenance and cleaning. He said water filtration plants were not working properly and so the jackwell in Mundhwa had been releasing untreated sewage into the canal.
 
 Sasane has tabled a proposal before the PMC’s standing committee to allot Rs20 crore to lay a pipeline to restrict the release of unclean water into the canal. “We are proposing a pipeline through residential areas. It will at least ensure that no unclean water flows into the canal and pollute groundwater,” he said.
 
 A source in the civic administration said farmers using the treated sewage for irrigation also complained about the poor water quality. They claimed that it was not even fit for the farms, the source said.
 
 
 
