"It has surpassed all expectations” – is the one-line verdict of   for the Meghna Gulzar-directed and Alia Bhatt-starrer ' ', and they are already predicting that the film is on the course of becoming one of the top-grossing films of the year.
Industry insiders point out that the first-day collections of the not-so-many women-centric films in the past – from ' ' (Rs 2.65 crore) to ' ' (Rs 2.77 crore) – have been far surpassed by those of 'Raazi', which created a record of sorts for a female-lead driven film with Rs 7.53 crore on the first day. In fact, 'Raazi' is one of those few films which have got love from critics and audiences alike. While critics called it a film that is “shattering the glass ceiling” and “a story that needs to be told”, audiences filled up the theatres on the opening weekend, and the film looks to be going for strong weekday occupancy too. After a 90-95% weekend occupancy, exhibitors tell us that weekdays are also going to be booked, not just in the metros, but in Tier II cities too, all thanks to word-of-mouth publicity.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Exhibitors tell us that Raazi’s weekend occupancy was 90-95%, with an impressive Sunday when even the morning shows were almost full in most cinemas in the metros. The reason is that on the weekends, the availability of the family audience is at its highest, and 'Raazi' is being seen as a family entertainer. However, cinema owners say that not just the weekend family audience, but several other types of audiences are expected to show a preference for visiting cinemas on the weekdays for Raazi – the audience in Tier II cities, those who wait for the initial reviews, and those who want to avoid paying weekend prices for tickets (a ticket that costs `350 on a weekend typically costs `150-200 on a weekday).
 Kamal Gianchandani, CEO,   Pictures, tells us, “'Raazi' has surpassed everyone’s expectations and is probably the first with a woman at the centre of an espionage drama. The advance sales were indicating Rs 5-6 crore on Day 1, but as the reviews and word of mouth started trickling in, we saw a jump in the numbers. I believe Day 1 would have closed anywhere between Rs 7.5 and 8 crore all-India, with PVR at Rs 2.25 crore net. The film has opened very well in the metros, and Tier II and Tier III cities will pick up now.”
 
 
  
    in a still from 'Raazi'
 
 
 
 Exhibitors say that Raazi’s weekend response has helped in setting up good word-of-mouth publicity for its first week. Tinku Singh, Group President,   Cinemas, says, “Theatres showing 'Raazi' are going to get great occupancy on weekdays. We have already seen higher advance bookings for weekdays, which will only increase.” A cinema manager of a multiplex chain in Delhi informs us, “When the audience gets to know that a movie is going houseful, they want to know why, and so other audiences react to it. We are hoping for a stronger Monday and Tuesday and so on. At ticket counters on the weekend, we have seen people changing their minds and going for 'Raazi' last-minute, when they had initially come to watch another film, because they got to know 'Raazi' was almost houseful.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 Cinemas say that Meghna Gulzar’s unique way of storytelling has paid off, and weekday occupancy will be higher than usual not just because of star power, but because of the film’s content. A cinema manager of a multiplex explains, “Good occupancy on weekdays is not common. There are films that do well on weekends, and there are films that do well as word of mouth goes around. Only films with strong content generate business on weekdays. 'Raazi' holds the audience with its content, and that’s why its word-of-mouth publicity is good, which will only help it get stronger.” 
 Devang Sampat, Director, Strategic Initiatives, Cinepolis India, adds, “With the IPL is going on, the evening shows were weak, but that has not been the case, first with Avengers: Infinity War, and now with 'Raazi'. When content is good, people come for the movies. We saw a jump of over 30% on Saturday over Friday, and so we have been increasing shows of 'Raazi' across the country. It started with the metros, but now it has picked up in the smaller cities too. We believe the film will grow this week and in the second week as well.”
 Yogesh Raizada, Corporate Head, Wave Cinemas, says, “The film has gone beyond our expectations in its opening weekend. We were hoping for a good opening, which in retrospect seems like we had kept the bar low for the film, as the film was houseful in the metros across the country this weekend. And it seems that it is going to be houseful next week too. But what has worked so well for 'Raazi' is that it’s a spy-thriller with not much action, it’s more on the emotional side, which seems to have worked really well with the audience.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Exhibitors tell us that the numbers 'Raazi' has done in its opening weekend in cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata have set the momentum for the week. As Kamal Gianchandani points out, “We expect the film to hold well in the weekdays, but by and large, the drama genre continues to find an audience in the A-list cinemas of Tier II cities.” Yogesh Raizada agrees, “In the first week, the metros did better than the Tier II cities. But that will change this week. It’s not a region-specific story, and so it will do as well in Kanpur or Lucknow as it will in Chandigarh.”
 Tinku Singh adds, “Raazi connects with both the younger generation and the family audience, or those just looking for a good film. Its universal appeal across different age groups is what will work for the film in the coming days. After seeing the initial response, we are confident that Tier II cities will also catch up this week. As SRS has screens in a number of Tier II cities like Chandigarh and Faridabad, we have observed that after initial reviews, the advance bookings have gone up. We are expecting 80-90% occupancy on the weekdays too.” 
 
  
  
 
