THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The special investigation team probing the murder of former radio jockey (RJ)   alias   is yet to identify the suspects who committed the crime. However, police believe that the motive could be related to his alleged extramarital relationship with an expatriate woman. They refused to reveal the identity of the woman. 

 On Wednesday, investigators contacted the woman, who is based in Doha, Qatar, over the phone as part of the investigation. "She admitted that they were in a deep relationship and had plans for future," said a senior police officer, who is part of the probe team.
 
 Police said she cooperated with the inquiry and told them that their relationship had soured their family life. They met when Rajesh reached Doha as an RJ at a popular FM station there. As the relationship grew, her husband realized what was happening and soon they were separated.
 
 The relationship affected Rajesh's marital life too, she told the police. "They were pretty much open about their relationship and his wife was aware of it too," said the officer quoting the   woman.
 
 The officer added that the woman did not make any sort of allegations or point out a particular person as a possible suspect. She added that she was willing to help the police with the probe if necessary, the officer said. The woman, however, deleted her   profile after interaction with investigators.
 
 Rajesh was speaking to the woman over the phone when he was attacked by assailants around 2am. She heard his screams from the other end of line and even alerted his friends, who rushed to the spot to save their friend.
 
 The police are trying to track the assailants by scientific methods like collecting mobile phone signal records from the nearby network towers at the time of the crime.
 
 Attingal DSP P Anilkumar, who is heading the special investigation team, said that preliminary evidence suggested that the crime could be committed by a professional quotation gang. "It appears that they did a proper research and learned his routine and targeted him accordingly," he said.
 
 
