GURUGRAM: Around 100 people, including builders and  , gathered at the office of the   administrator on Friday and protested against a recent directive restricting registration of newly built fourth floors as independent residential units.

 The protesters claimed they had spent crores of rupees in building additional floors after the state government had in 2017 allowed construction of fourth floors in licensed colonies and Huda sectors. They complained this sudden change in policy would cause huge losses to small   and house owners, who were hoping to make profits by selling the additional flours.
 
 As TOI reported on May 16, the government in February 2017 had raised the construction limit on private residential plots from a stilt and three floors (15 metre) to a stilt and four floors. 
 
 Under the rule, a developer could get permission to build a fourth floor in an existing house by purchasing additional floor-area ratio ( ) for a fixed amount of Rs 30 lakh.
 
 However, in a meeting chaired by the   director-general in March, the department decided to impose restrictions on the registration of a fourth floor as an independent residential unit, leaving independent plot owners and developers in a soup.
 
 “Developers and independent house owners have already spent crores of rupees for getting approvals and building fourth floors. Now, all of a sudden, the department has restricted the registration of the newly built fourth floors,” said  , one of the protesting builders.
 
 A rough estimate suggests currently, owners of at least 500-600 plots are building fourth floors on their properties in the city. In the next three-four months, the number will be somewhere near 1,000. And if these floors are not registered as independent units, builders and plot owners will suffer huge losses.
 
 “The administration is flip-flopping on policies, without paying heed to the plight of thousands of people who have invested their money in various projects,” Aggarwal added.
 
 Arun Sharma, another developer who took part in the protest, said, “We as builders of licensed colonies are giving timely deliveries to homebuyers. It is so sad to hear that the government is putting all of us in a situation like this.”
 
 “This (decision) will not only hurt the real estate sector and allied businesses but also hit jobs created by this sector. Further, it will undermine the objective of making housing cheaper and very importantly business sentiment. The message they are sending out is that the government’s policies cannot be trusted and that there is no coordination among different departments,” said Varun, also a developer.
 
 A senior official at DTCP said the builders had submitted a memorandum. “We will seek opinion on this from higher authorities and act accordingly,” he added.
 
 “We will look into their demand and take action as per the law,” said DG (town and country planning) KM Pandurang.
 
 Meanwhile, SDM Gurugram Sanjeev Kumar has directed six tehsildars to compile reports on registrations done for fourth floors in recent time, even after the restriction order was issued by DTCP.
 
 “The tehsildars have been asked to submit their reports within two days. Based on the reports, action will be taken against officials involved in carrying out registrations (in violation of rules),” Kumar told TOI.
 
 
