NOIDA:   took over as the senior superintendent of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, last week. Since the day he took charge, there have been at least 10 encounters in which one alleged criminal was gunned down and a dozen arrested. In his earlier stint in Shamli as superintendent of police, Sharma also presided over a similar strategy. 

 He shared his views with Shafaque Alam on his plans to check crime in Noida and Greater Noida.
 
 You took charge as SSP and there is an increase in encounters.
 
 We have planned to improve policing and check crimes in rural and urban areas alike. There are two kinds of criminals — one, who are part of notorious gangs, and second, petty criminals. The focus now is on the organised gangs. We have made a good start and several wanted criminals were held and one carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh, Shravan, was killed in a hot chase. Another criminal, Sheru Bhati, who had a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head in Shiv Kumar Yadav murder case, surrendered himself. The crackdown is surely yielding good results.
 
 So the encounters will continue in coming days?
 
 I can say that the criminals will be dealt with strictly as per the law. We will take all measures to enforce law and order.
 
 Gangsters in jail have been finding ways to skip court proceedings. What do you plan to do about that? 
 
 We are examining their cases and crime records. We are establishing if criminals like Sunder Bhati, Anil Dujana, Randeep Bhati, etc, who are currently in different jails, are appearing in court proceedings or not. Some of them have been skipping hearings and this delays the process. We will ensure they join proceedings on each hearing, unless there is a serious issue or health problem. Even in those cases, appropriate steps will be taken. This will expedite the judicial process. Their movable/immovable properties will be examined afresh, and if acquired illegally, they would be attached.
 
 What are the plans to improve policing in urban areas and check snatchings and thefts?
 
 We are identifying places which are prone to such crimes in urban and rural areas. We will deploy more personnel and squads and nab such criminals. The focus will also be on market places, malls and shopping centres. We aim to make Noida crime-free.
 
 Increase in cyber-crime also needs attention. What are the plans to curb it?
 
 We have visited the Noida’s Centre for Cyber Crime Investigation. We are studying the kinds of cyber crimes which are increasing in the city. There is increase in financial frauds and fake call centres. We will soon make a detailed plan to address the issue. First, we will work on prevention of cyber frauds and conduct awareness programme among people. Second, we will work on solving the cases filed in police stations.
 
 
