Director   is making his debut with the film ‘Mithai’ and wrote an open letter to the media detailing his journey and ambitions as a director in future. The text of his letter is reproduced below, verbatim:

 
 
 
 
 Okay folks! It took me some time, maybe a bit longer than expected, but I am announcing the shooting for my first feature film. Yes, it’s a Telugu film. My Telugu vocabulary is limited to cheppandi, choodandi, kurchondi, and few other words. I have been staying here for the last 15 years and watched only 9 Telugu films till date, which includes two films made by my illustrious friends, who just short of killed me for not making my film. So as they say there is a right time for everything, yes, so I am ready with my film.
 
 It’s called  , it’s a dark comedy, yes, it’s a very very dark comedy where things keep going from bad to worse to good people and good to excellent to all the so called “bad People”. It’s my tribute to my favourite filmmakers COEN BROTHERS. It is a very dark, very abstract, surreal, and also very very relatable at the same time. That is as much as I can tell you about my film, oh, and one more thing,   is making some mind…mind blowing music for the movie. We are using varied range of instruments from dholak to saxophone to trumpet. The sounds are very unique indeed!
 
 I have loved each and every moment while writing my film and I was truly heartbroken for 3-4 days when I punched “THE FILM ENDS” in celtx. I was living each character and living their lives. I was being male and female at the same time, old man and a police as well. When I finished, it went out of my hand and now my actors have to live in those characters and the world I created. I sincerely thank the casting and the actors, who have value added so much to the film.
 
 As a director, I treat an audience with great respect. I sincerely think the audience is much far more intelligent than a director. If a film fails, that seriously indicates the director has failed in communicating with his audience. I am trying my best to make an honest film. I am trying my best to do a good different film. If it works, I will be happy. If it doesn’t, I won’t be heartbroken either. I will know the truth that I failed somewhere, this one is fully on me. My company ‘Red ants’, will come up with a second film soon. We at red ants, plan to do two films per year. I will be directing a film and will be giving a chance to anybody with passion, honesty and an intelligent story to tell. 
 
 That’s all I have to say. Thank you so much. Cheers.
 
 
