Nagpur: A successful private bidder executing an   housing project under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) is permitted to sell 50% of   in the scheme at rates of his choice while the rest will have to be sold at the price prescribed by the government agency. A floor space index (FSI) of 2.5 will be the other major attraction for the builder of the project to be implemented on public private partnership (PPP) basis.

 A 64-page government resolution, issued last week, provides detailed guidelines for the project. It specifies the process of bidding, selection of builder, tender document and agencies that are to work as nodal organization overseeing each of the schemes in 382 cities. The PMAY, initiated in 2015, has set year 2022 as deadline for affordable housing for all project.
 
 Under the scheme, the total number of houses to be built are 19.40 lakh. People booking for allotment of house under the economically weaker section category would get a total subsidy of Rs 2.5 lakh, of which Rs 1.5 lakh will be given by the central government and rest by the  . In  , there is plan to build 3,07,831 houses. A major chunk or 1.21 lakh will be in Nagpur district.
 
 The GR further states incentives shall be given to projects developed under PPP on both private as well as government land: Fees for joint measurement of land under such PMAY projects will be charged at 50% of the prevailing rate. Stamp duty of Rs1,000 only per EWS house will be charged for first instrument executed for the purpose of allotment of residential premises admeasuring up to an area of 30 sq.mt. to the person belonging to EWS category.
 
 All other subsidies and incentives as per the PMAY (U) guidelines of March 2016 and subsequent amendments shall be given to such projects under PPP including Rs1.5 lakh from the Centre and Rs1 lakh from the state. 
 
 The main highlight is 2.5 FSI shall be given to all the affordable housing projects under this PPP. Projects on land falling in Green Zone /No Development Zone are also permitted with 1 FSI for construction of such affordable housing.
 
 It also specifies that urban development department of the state shall separately issue a GR for exemption from development charges for projects under the scheme. All the projects are required to adhere to Development Control Rules (DCR), Development Plan (DP), Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016 and Rules and Regulations made thereunder. The projects should be registered with MahaRERA.
 
 The prices of 50% of the houses constructed under this scheme shall be fixed as per the prevailing pricing policy of Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (MHADA). For the rest 50%, the selected bidder is permitted to fix the prices.
 
 If at any particular location the proposals received from multiple private parties exceed the demand registered for that location, then the private party which is willing to price maximum percentage of dwelling units (over and above 50%) as per the prevailing pricing policy of MHADA shall be selected as final bidder. In such case, the selected bidder can sell rest of the dwelling units in open market.
 
 One of the most important points is there is no involvement of the selected bidder or government for the maintenance of the units after the transfer of units to the allottee. Maintenance, therefore, is the responsibility of the beneficiaries.
 
 
