CHANDIGARH: Based on the government school teachers’ transfer policy approved by the   cabinet on March 7, the state government has asked comments from all other departments whether such policy can also be implemented in their respective departments. However, according to information, some of the ministers and the   MLAs do not want to completely end human intervention in transfers.

 The department heads, divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners, chairmen of various boards and managing directors of corporations have been asked to submit their comments by April 20. They have to submit, “If the online policy could be implemented according to the needs and situation of their department.” The personnel department has written to all the officers concerned stating since transfers of the government officers and employees happen every year in public interest, the government wants to bring transparency in the process.
 
 But some of the ministers and ruling government MLAs are against making the transfer process completely online by ending human intervention. One of the cabinet ministers, who did not wish to be named, told TOI, “If everything has to be done by the software, what is our role? How will we satisfy our constituency people? We are answerable to them.”
 
 Meanwhile, health and family welfare minister   said, “I have been in favour of   from day one. In case there are some genuine or compassionate cases, we can always consider them.” Mohindra said there is complete ban on transfers till April 30.
 
 It was on March 7 that the council of ministers had approved the school teachers’ transfer policy digitally in a transparent manner as per the recommendations of the cabinet sub-committee. The sub-committee comprised local government minister  , rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and education minister Aruna Chaudhary. The policy was framed after taking into consideration the transfer policies of Haryana and Karnataka.
 
 As per the new teachers’ transfer policy, general transfers would be made once a year after possible vacancies were made available on the department’s website by January 15th each year. A criterion has been set by assigning marks to the teachers seeking transfer on the basis of duration of their service spent in various zones, length of service and physical disability of the person. All eligible teachers would have to submit their options of schools online from 15th January to 15th February. The transfer orders will be issued in the last week of March and the teachers would be joining the new school in the first week of April.
 
