Remember Sattar Minute, the iconic Bollywood soliloquy that inspires a group of no-hopers into champions in Chak De? There apparently need not always be inspiring dressing room speeches to motivate the players. It can come through a moment of powerful symbolism that can lead to miracles in sport. That could even lead to uniting a racially-divided country.

 
 A catalyst to one such a moment was Francois Pienaar, who guided a group of no-hopers into world champions. His team emerged winners in the 1995   at Johannesburg's  , winning a trophy that meant more than mere silverware for the country.
 
 The moment of inspiration came from President  . Mandela had provided the spur, that Pienaar said, turned things around for his side against the mighty All Blacks. Mandela triggered the spark by wearing the  , which was a symbol of draconian apartheid.
 
 "As a captain, I was trying to keep everyone focused. But when he (Mandela) walked in wearing the   jersey, we were surprised. When he turned, there was No 6 on his back. It was very emotional," Pienaar recalled. The No 6 jersey in the World Cup was Pienaar's.
 
 
 
 
 It was powerful symbolism because rugby was deemed a white man's sport in South Africa and the locals were seen backing other countries more than their own Springboks. Now the first black President of the country was endorsing the Springboks.
 
 Pienaar remembered the moment when Mandela walked in. "I don't recall any leader of a country going to the change room and wish the players before a World Cup final. And the jersey did the trick I suppose. He wished us good luck and said 'thank you for playing for this country.' He did not need to say anything. Wearing the Springbok jersey was enough," the 52- year old Pienaar, who coaches a team in England, said.
 
 "It was a great moment for all of us. So powerful was it that I was worried that the inspiration would trigger a negative effect. I was worried that we could be too emotional. We needed to be cool and calm in our heads and fire in our hearts," Pienaar said in conversation with Mirror revealing that his players were so overwhelmed that they were unable to focus for a few seconds.
 
 
 
 
 "It was evident in the first couple of minutes when the players were too emotional. But it was ok, we settled down." The South Africans just did not settle down but went on to upset their fancied opponents 15-12. It was considered a political masterstroke by Mandela, who managed to bring the black majority to back the players of a white man's sport.
 
 Mandela was not just done as of yet. After presenting the trophy to Pienaar, he himself cheered the captain like a child and Pienaar regretted that he missed an opportunity to return the favour to the President at that moment.
 
 
 
 
 "I wish I gave him a hug then," Pienaar confessed. "While giving me the trophy, he said 'Francois thank you for what you have done for South Africa'. I told him 'thank you for what you have done for South Africa'. I wish I hugged him right there. I guess I did not do so because he was a statesman and may be it was not appropriate. Still I missed an opportunity," he said.
 
 Pienaar made up for that miss by his speech which furthered Mandela's agenda of bringing the blacks and whites together. He declared that the win was for the people of South Africa, and not just the supporters of the Springboks. "People come to me and say I prepared that speech. I wish I was that careful of things. I realized that the people were genuinely happy and the black South Africans started loving this team. The commentator asked me if I was happy for the 65,000 people in the stadium and I said I was happy for 45 million South Africans."
 
 The tournament was important for South Africa because the country was inviting the world to come to South Africa. "How we coped for those six weeks, actually changed the country. How proud we became as a nation at that was incredible," he said.
 
 
 
 
 After the World Cup, Mandela would stay in touch with him till his death in 2014. "It is actually after the World Cup that we became closer," Pienaar said. "We would see each other regularly. When I left for London, he called me for lunch and asked me for the reason for moving to UK. After listening to me, he said I can't go for too long. And every time he would be in the UK, we would have an opportunity to have coffee.
 
 When my kid was born, he congratulated us. He invited himself to our wedding in 1996. And he said that he wanted to be the godfather of my child. I am very lucky to have had a friend like him," Pienaar said.
 
 Much before the win, Mandela sat with Pienaar to plan for the tournament which was the first major global event after apartheid was abolished. Pienaar recalled the meeting over tea.
 
 "When he became the President in 1994, he invited me to have tea. For more than an hour, we had conversation about everything - about sport, about  , apartheid and the boycott. He wanted to know more about me. The Presidents of the countries were waiting outside to meet him and his PA would head into the door and tell him that we were running overtime. He would tell his staff, 'listen I am speaking to my captain'," he said adding, "I felt blessed that day."
 
