PATNA: With chief minister Nitish Kumar launching a campaign against   on October 2 last year, minor girls have taken up the baton to eliminate the social evil in the state. 

 For instance, a four-year-old girl at Chak Jamal village under Sahdeai police station in Vaishali district recently prevented the marriage of a 16-year-old girl in her family. The wedding was stopped after the helpline of   (WDC) of   government received a call and swung into action.
 
 SHO of Sahdeai police station   said the police were alerted by the helpline employees. Source said the four-year-old girl in the family told others in the neighbourhood about the wedding, following which the call was made to the helpline.
 
 “We got the information on February 11, the day when the wedding was to be solemnised. We convinced the family members of the 16-yer-old girl to call off the marriage and asked the mukhiya of the village to keep an eye on such weddings,” the SHO added.
 
 In another instance, a group of 30 minor girls prevented the marriage of their 15-year-old friend at Barachhati in   district on February 6. The girl went to the local police station along with 30 of her friends and reported the issue. “A police team visited the girl’s house and asked her family members to stop the marriage. These young crusaders are the real icons and we will take their help in our campaign against social evils,” Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh said.
 
 On February 8, timely action by the Patna administration officials helped in stopping a child marriage in Patna City locality. Officials and social activists said awareness about prevention of child marriage increased significantly, especially after the launch of state government’s campaign.
 
 Kartik Kumar, a WDC counsellor based in Hajipur, said the reporting of such incidents have increased in the past few months. “Apart from social activists, common people are also calling on the women helpline number and sharing information about such incidents. Girls are now aware of the legal age of their marriage,” said Kumar. State co-ordinator of an NGO working for child rights Suramya Sadanandan got in touch with TOI on Thursday when her team was trying to stop the marriage of a 13-year-old girl and Class VIII student of Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya in Patna, which was scheduled on February 22 and after a days hard work they succeeded in stopping that marriage.
 
 “We got to know about this wedding from the girl’s friends at her school when we went there to hold a session on child rights. We lodged an FIR at Pataliputra police station and took help of few officials in this case,” she said.
 
 WDC managing director N Vijayalakshmi said child marriages account for 26.8% of total marriages in the country, while it was 39.1% in Bihar.
 
 WDC and the mass education department have initiated various awareness programmes, including staging of street plays and folk songs in all the panchayats. 
 
 
