Nagpur: The office of the superintendent of police, Gadchiroli, has released an advertisement ‘Give information, earn million’, for the first time in English newspapers, seeking inputs on top five Maoists holding the reins of banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) in the state and offering rewards of total Rs 1.71 crore.  Advertisements seeking information on top Maoist leaders were earlier published mostly in regional and vernacular dailies to attract attention of rural populace. With the growing inputs increasing movements of Maoist sympathizers, their front organizations and overground operatives in centres like Mumbai, Nagpur and Pune, the police decided to publish an appeal for urban readers asking them to share information about the top rebels.  Police’s yet another objective is to attract attention of the upper crust towards efforts of these cadres in cities, away from their forest hideouts, to spread their network and activities.  Though the front organizations and Maoist sympathizers trying to engage intellectuals, students, working classes, backward communities and trade unions is nothing new, seized literatures and documents of CPI (Maoist) indicates plans to focus more on metros and take up various anti-government agitations. A intelligence source claimed Milind Teltumbde, alias Deepak, the top Maoist on whom a reward of Rs 50 lakh has been declared, is the one spearheading the campaign within the party to focus on cities.  Apart from Teltumbde, who is also secretary of Maharashtra State Committee, information has been been sought on Central Committee member and part of politburo Malojula Venugopal alias Bhupati (Rs 60 lakh), Narmadakka (Rs 25 lakh), Joganna Narsaya (Rs 20 lakh) and Pahadsing (Rs 16 lakh).  SP Gadchiroli Abhinav Deshmukh, whose office has released the advertisement, said citizens may not be aware of Maoists’ activities in their neighbourhoods. “Publicity in English media would make them aware of top cadres who may well be carrying out activities in neighbourhood or seeking information on them,” he said. “The top cadres may venture into cities seeking logistics support and with the objective to boost their front organizations,” said the SP. He also appealed to citizens to come forward and help police in eradicating Maoist movement.  The advertisement underlined the fact these top cadres had killed thousands of innocent tribals in the past. The rewards amounts would be disbursed to the informants whose names would be kept confidential if the cadres are killed or arrested following their lead provided by them. 