NEW DELHI:   who defrauded thousands of people of   of rupees using   were arrested by   of Delhi Police. The duo conned people through a   that required people to invest in  .

 
 DCP (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said a team led by addtional DCP K P S Malhotra arrested Deepak Jangra (37) and Deepak Malhotra (56). 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Police said the company beeped on their radar after multiple complaints were received about the duo, who were running a company called bitmineplus.org since December 2016. During investigation they found that the company was offering returns at 12% for bitcoin investments. Investors were asked to buy bitcoins from this company, which was buying them from a US-based company. People invested in up to 200 bitcoins.
 
 “Their basic idea was to kick-start a multilevel marketing scheme involving bitcoins. The people were given monthly payouts and additional income for referring the scheme to more people,” an investigating officer said, adding that initially, some people also received their returns in the form of bitcoins.
 
 After successfully convincing around 5,000 people to invest in the company, Jangra stopped paying returns in bitcoins and instead offered his investors a new cryptocurrency called ‘BMP’ that he had created on his own. To attract as many people to his cryptocurrency, Jangra roped in Malhotra who marketed the company by holding conferences and parties for investors in five-star resorts across NCR. The duo also established their office at Netaji Subhash Place in northwest Delhi.
 
 The new currency, when floated in the cryptocurrency stock exchange by the investors, was found to be having no value. That is when they started demanding their payout in cash. Jangra fled with his family in February this year.
 
 TOI had earlier reported about the incident when a woman investor in the company had lost approximately Rs 35 lakh. A team comprising inspectors K P Sah and K L Yadav then conducted raids at the hideouts of the two owners and apprehended Jangra. Both Jangra and Malhotra are from Sonipat in Haryana. 
 
 During interrogation, Jangra told the police he got the idea from ‘gainbitcoin.com’ in 2016 whose founder Amit Bhardwaj was recently arrested by Pune crime branch.
 
 “Jangra had planned to shift his investors to his own cryptocurrency after getting a good sum of investment, but rising debt and the daily pressure from his investors made him flee with the money,” a senior police officer said.
 
 
