Mumbai: A set of lenders wants the government to take over the   and   group of companies rather than have banks initiate  . Banks said a precedent was set in the case of Satyam Computers, where the government appointed a board of directors to run the company and protect its assets.

 However, sources in the corporate affairs ministry said that the government was not keen on taking over the companies as this would result in the Centre being responsible for all liabilities.
 
 Those opposed to insolvency proceedings are banks that have an indirect exposure to the Nirav Modi and Gitanjali fraud through their loans against unauthorised guarantees issued by Punjab National Bank ( ). A government takeover would, therefore, help in unwinding some of the liabilities in over Rs 11,300-crore worth   ( ) fraudulently obtained by the two groups.
 
 If bankruptcy proceedings are initiated, it would mean that the resolution process has to be completed within 270 days from the date of admission. If there is no resolution plan, which is very likely given the fraud, the companies would have to be liquidated.
 
 Besides, insolvency would also adversely impact over 1,000 employees. Around 700 employees working in   — a 100% subsidiary of Gitanjali — have found themselves without a job after the SEZ was attached in the wake of the fraud. Over 250 of those employees in the SEZ were people with disabilities.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Overall, there are 34 banks with exposure to the two groups. The largest exposure by far is of PNB through LoUs. Additionally, the bank has sanctioned limits of over Rs 900 crore. Gitanjali and Nirav Modi groups together have sanctioned limits of Rs 8,000-9,000 crore.
 
 ICICI Bank, which leads the consortium of banks that have loans to Gitanjali, is understood to be in favour of insolvency proceedings. However, the lender has agreed to wait until it gets a report from Delhi-based auditor T R Chadha who has been appointed to conduct a forensic review of the company.
 
 PNB has classified Gitanjali as a non-performing asset (NPA). Several other lenders have not yet classified the group as an NPA since, this happens only once the fraud is established or after repayment is due for 90 days. Given the nature of the case, all loans are likely to be classified NPA by March 31.
 
 
