KOCHI: In the wake of   to rush accident victims to hospitals,   is exploring the possibility of starting a dedicated   by joining hands with NGOs.

 Last month, a middle-aged man from Thrissur, who fell from the third floor of a lodge near Padma Junction, had to wait for nearly 30 minutes as nobody came forward to help him. Non-availability of   was one key factor. Later, advocate Ranjani R somehow succeeded in moving him to a hospital after forcing a car to stop.
 
 Mayor Soumini Jain said the local body would explore the possibility of starting an  . “We will be able to mobilize some   for purchasing vehicles for the service, but we require help in operating the ambulances. If NGOs are ready, we will provide ambulances,” she said. Earlier, the corporation had to hand over an ambulance donated by MLA Hibi Eden to another local body due to the lack of officials and drivers to operate the service.
 
 “Corporation can conduct the service if it believes in itself. There should be ambulances in each of its five zones. Formation of an action force is the key to operating the service. There are other local bodies that operate such services,” said councillor V P Chandran, adding that volunteers should be trained in each division.
 
 In Thrissur, there is an accident care and transport service (ACTS) that has been functioning for the past 17 years. “It is a collective effort and district administration, police and the general public play their part. We could help around 5.5 lakh accident victims in the past 17 years,” said vice-president of ACTS Fr Chiramel.
 
 “There are 42,000 volunteers in our network across 17 branches and 22 ambulances. Wide publicity is required for starting a society for running the network. Support from district administration, police and other government departments are also required,” he said.
 
 Before floating a network, a meeting of all stakeholders, including representatives of general public, should be convened. “If corporation authorities convene such a meeting, we are ready to share our experience on constituting such as society and how we run it successfully,” Fr Chiramel said.
 
 Corporation can seek the support of other organizations which are already part of such a service. The head-load workers in Ernakulam market joined hands and constituted   to provide first aid to accident victims and later shift them to hospital. “We gave trauma care training to 1,000 head-load workers in the city. This is the first batch of Kanivu Action Force. They will give care to accident victims and shift them to hospitals,” said treasurer of the organization Shahul Hameed.
 
 
