MUMBAI: A 28-year-old Nalasopara man was arrested for allegedly creating nine fake social media profiles of his former wife, posting derogatory comments on them and sending friend requests to random men. 

 MIDC police said  , who is employed as an office boy, has confessed to creating the fake   accounts of his former wife 15 days after they got divorced on October 27, 2017, with an intention to defame her. 
 
 Last November, the complainant, who lives in  , came across a Facebook account with her name and photo that she had not created. On reading the abusive and derogatory comments, she panicked and approached MIDC police. 
 
 In her complaint lodged on November 12, 2017, the woman said, "I found three fake Facebook accounts in my name filled with abusive and derogatory comments." 
 
 Investigating officer   contacted the Facebook headquarters in   via email seeking details of the fake profiles, including when they were created, and the IP address and mobile number used to create them. "The complainant found three fake Facebook accounts, while we traced six more during the probe," said Ghadge. 
 
 Police said the woman was so traumatized by the ordeal that she even threatened to end her life, if they did not trace the accused as soon as possible. 
 
 Based on the technical evidence received from Facebook that identified Nawale as the accused, MIDC police swung into action and arrested him on February 14. "The accused had created at least nine fake profiles of his former wife. He wanted to malign her character," said MIDC police senior inspector Shailesh Pasalwar. 
 
 Another police officer said, "The comments on the profile pictures were derogatory, which were written to malign her social image. Nawale's mobile phone has been seized and sent to the forensic science laboratory for analysis." 
 
 The couple had a love marriage in December 2014, but later got separated due to domestic issues.
 
 Nawale was booked under the Indian Penal Code sections 500 (defamation), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and under the IT Act section 66 (C) (identity theft). He was later released on bail. 
 
 
