GURUGRAM: Around 400 students of Government Senior Secondary School, Civil Lines, took to the streets on Saturday to protest against the proposed shifting of their institution to make way for the expansion of the general hospital. 

 They marched on Maharaja Agrasen Road and blocked traffic for nearly 30 minutes, before police dispersed them. They sat on the road and raised slogans like “school bachao”. They claimed they would face difficulties in attending classes if the school was shifted from its existing campus. 
 
 Sources said on Saturday, the students had come to the school to get their exam results when they were informed by teachers that the school would be shifted in the upcoming academic session. They then gathered on the road and staged a protest against the move.
 
 Officials at the education department said they had received orders to shift the school as well as the nearby Government Middle School, both of which are adjacent to the hospital, as a new multi-specialty hospital with 300 beds would be built there. But the dates of the relocation have not been decided yet, they added. 
 
 The ensuing traffic jam was cleared after police intervened. Geeta Arya, principal of both the schools, said, “If the schools are shifted, students will face a lot of issues. But we have to obey the education department’s orders.” Around 850 students study in the Government Senior Secondary School while the middle school has around 80 students. Students of the middle school will be adjusted in the Government Senior Secondary School at Sector 14, and space will be made in SCERT, Civil Lines to accommodate students from the senior secondary school, officials said. Students vehemently opposed the move. Kurban Ali, a Class XI student, said: “This school is near my house, so I come and study here.. If I have to go to SCERT to study, my travel time will increase. What if anything happens to me?” “I come from a poor family, and my family can’t afford bus fares daily. I can’t walk 5km daily,” added Salman Hasan, a Class IX student.
 
 Vijaypal Singh, another Class IX student, said, “A hospital is being built instead of a school. Shouldn’t the government have first thought of the students?”When contacted, district education officer Ravinder Alawadi said “We received orders about the relocation a month ago, but the date hasn’t been finalised yet. The schools will run on the present campus till further orders.” 
 
 
