With numerous astronomical events lined up in 2018, the year promises to be a ‘celestial treat’ for sky-watchers, scientists and astronomy enthusiasts. And the first in a long list of celestial wonders will be here on January 31, when the sky will be lit by a full moon, a blue moon, a   and a  , all at once! Yes! Called the ‘super blue blood moon’, the rare, once-in-a-lifetime phenomenon that occurs only once every 150 years, has gotten skygazers all excited. What’s more, experts are also anticipating a lunar eclipse on the day, which will be viewable in its entirety from Western North America across the pacific to Eastern Asia. 

 
 
 
 Well, ‘super blue blood full moon’ means it’s all of those things. Considering this is the second full moon in January (the first was on January 1), this is a ‘blue moon’ — a phenomenon that happens only every two-and-a-half years, on an average. Now, on the particular day, the earth’s permanent natural satellite will also come 90 per cent closer, appearing 30 per cent brighter and 14 per cent bigger, thus making it a ‘super moon’, a term coined in 1979. As it will be in the earth’s shadow during that time, it will also wear a tinge of red. Ergo, blood moon! 
 
 
 
 
 The good news for sky gazers, according to  , Director and Founder Secretary, Planetary Society, India, is that most of the celestial events happening this year, including the one on January 31, can be observed with the naked eye. “Just like how kids observe planets, spot or track their movements and positions without any special instrument but a telescope, the upcoming phenomena too can be observed with the naked eye from home or school. There is another event coming up in which Jupiter, Saturn and Mars will become brighter as they will come closer in the months of May, June and July and everybody will be able to watch it without any equipment,” he says.
 
 
 
 It’s not a wonder then that amateur astronomy enthusiasts in the city are gearing up for a number of sky-gazing sessions this year.  , an astronomy enthusiast, who is also part of Hyderabad Adventurers and Trekkers Club, says that he along with his friends will head to   to witness the three-in-one spectacle. When asked, how they choose places for sky-gazing, he says, “If the spectacle is in the east direction, to get a clear view, we usually head to Pocharam. If it is in the middle, we go to Koilsagar and if in the south direction, we visit Anantagiri.” 
 
 “To get a clear view, sometimes we also go to Nagarjunasagar backwaters or Chandrampalli, which is about 120 kilometers from Hyderabad. Earlier we used to visit Nallamala Forest, but nowadays we don’t because of too much of light pollution in the area,” he adds.
 Another amateur astronomer from AstroSoc Corp, Praveen Suryavanshi is planning to witness the spectacle from an apartment terrace in Madinaguda near Miyapur along with his friends. “To witness the January 31 event, all one needs is a high altitude area like building tops or terrace with a clear view of the eastern horizon devoid of light and dust pollution. But if you are in the outskirts, you will get a brighter view. As it’s winter, there won’t be clouds and the cold air will get you a better view.” He says that for deep sky observations, he and his friends usually camp at the Pocharam dam near Medak, Kotepalli reservoir near Anantagiri hills and villages near Narayankhed.
 
 
 
 
 Considering pollution in the city, enthusiasts usually head to the outskirts. “Whenever we camp out during a celestial event and if it is a small group of three or four people, we carry everything that we need — from blankets, seating gears, to snacks et al. We also carry basic equipment such telescopes, binoculars and camera,” says Dheeraj.
 
 Praveen echoes his sentiment, saying, sky watchers should always be geared up. “We carry telescope, binoculars and lasers to point at the stars, a projector and at times, computers and educational materials,” says Praveen. 
 Professional astronomers however say that though they have sophisticated equipment, there are certain challenges which they face while witnessing such phenomena in the city. “Vehicular movement, pollution and high rises are the obstacles in a city like Hyderabad for deep sky watching,” says Raghunandan. 
 Dheeraj opines that there are few things that they have to take into consideration while choosing a place for sky watching. “The place should be free of light and dust pollution. Secondly, for ideal viewing, the place shouldn’t be at a low altitude and have a clear horizon view,” he adds.
 
 
 
