TRICHY: Screening for breast cancer through mammogram at the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital ( ) attached to KAP Viswanatham government medical college in   remains inaccessible to the patients for the past three months now due to a fault in the machine.

 Breast cancer takes its toll mostly on women above 40 years of age. Mammography is a screening and diagnosis method to identify the malignant tissues causing breast cancer.
 
 As far as Trichy district is concerned,   government hospital is the only government hospital equipped with the facility to cater the entire district. The patients visiting MGMGH are referred from around ten government hospitals and primary health centres in urban and rural parts to undergo mammography.
 
 The facility has been unavailable for the past three months now, forcing the patients to consult private centres where the facility would cost Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000. MGMGH charged Rs 250 per patient.
 
 “Due to pain in my breast, I consulted a doctor in MGMGH recently. The doctor referred me for mammography. When I went to the radiology department, the staff told me about the malfunctioning of the equipment. So, I have no other option than waiting for the machine to be repaired as I cannot afford to pay in private hospitals,” said a patient,   on Saturday.
 
 On an average, four to five patients were being referred for mammography in MGMGH.
 
 A source requesting anonymity said the equipment had been functioning in the hospital for the past 12 years. Recently, a small belt in the mammogram machine snapped. The supplier of the spare part shut their business recently. Hence, the chance of getting the belt and repairing the machine is highly remote.
 
 The hospital administration asked another agency involved in the medical equipment servicing to rectify the defect. Sources said that the agency started searching for suitable belt to replace the old one.
 
 The officials concerned exuded confidence that they could get the defect rectified in a matter of ten days.
 
 Ultrasound sonogram came for their rescue as the technicians performed performed ultrasound for some patients to diagnose the problem. Yet, the accuracy will be perfect in mammography.
 
 Patients also have another option of taking up the screening in private centres free of cost provided they have the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme (CMCHIS). But not everyone would have the card and would like to go to private centres.
 
 A doctor on the condition of anonymity said that the hospital can plan for procuring one more mammogram machine that would cost Rs 15 lakh to Rs 30 lakh. Dean of MGMGH Dr G Anitha was not available for comment.
 
 
