GHAZIABAD: A 45-year-old trader was shot dead allegedly outside his   in Ghaziabad late on Wednesday night. The victim, who has been identified as Rajiv Chauhan, a resident of Nandgram, used to run a zinc-plating factory in Hindon Vihar.

 Rajiv’s wife, Anju Devi, has lodged a police complaint alleging that the murder was a conspiracy by a 20-year-old maid, working in their household, and her family members. Rajiv also owns a tyre retreading outlet in Raj Nagar. According to the family, the incident took place outside the factory at around 9.30 pm. Rajiv was rushed by his family members to Yashoda Hospital in Nehru Nagar. Police said they received information about the incident at around 11 pm.
 
 The trader’s brother-in-law, Avnish, told TOI that two men shot at Rajiv outside the factory. “Rajiv had stepped out of the factory premises to fetch cigarettes. It was at this time that two men walked up and opened fire at him,” said Avnish. Doctors at Yashoda Hospital said Rajiv was brought dead. “The victim was shot in his head. His brain was seriously damaged. He was declared dead on arrival,” hospital spokesperson   said. A post-mortem was conducted and its report is awaited. 
 
 The police have registered an FIR for murder and criminal conspiracy on the basis of the complaint lodged by Anju Devi. She has accused maid Shivani, her brother Sunny, her uncle Sanjeev Dubey, mother Pushpa and another uncle Rajesh of hatching a conspiracy to eliminate Rajiv. According to family members, Sanjeev Dubey used to work in Rajiv’s Hindon Vihar factory where Rajesh used to visit him often. Apart from these four persons, police have also named two unidentified men as accused in the FIR. 
 
 “Shivani called Rajiv to the factory at around 8 pm where all these persons were present beforehand. They shot dead Rajiv. Shivani and her mother Pushpa used to keep an evil eye on Rajiv. They used to blackmail him and have extorted cash from him on several occasions in the past. We had complained about this to the police,” Anju has said in her complaint. The family has alleged that they had complained to the local police outpost about the extortion on Wednesday. Police have so far not been successful in procuring any CCTV footage that could lead to the identification of the killers.
 
 “The murder was committed by persons who are known to the family. We have nearly identified the killers. From investigations conducted so far, we have ruled out chances of extortion, if any, as a possible motive behind the murder” SP (city)   told TOI.
 
 
