CHANDIGARH: With the Union government confirming deaths of 39 Indians, including 27 Punjabis, working in a construction firm in Mosul, Iraq, the focus has once again shifted on the travel/ immigration agencies sending people abroad, both legally and illegally.

 Official data shows there are just 1,181 registered   in Punjab, but various estimates put the number of illegal immigration agents in tens of thousands. These illegal agents still sell dollar dreams to Punjabis due to ineffective implementation of the Punjab Travel Professionals’ Regulation Act, 2012, and rules framed under the Act. Jalandhar tops with the highest number of 287 registered immigration agents followed by 170 in Ludhiana, 134 in Amritsar and 122 in Mohali.
 
 
  
 
 Harpal Singh, SP investigation of Amritsar rural, says hardly 25% of the immigration agents are registered and rest are illegally carrying out their business through touts. “We do register cases under the Immigration Act and other sections of the IPC as and when any irregularities come to our notice,” he said.
 
 As per official records, 13 cases were registered against immigration agents of Amritsar district for various offences in 2017.
 
 The officer said an investigation into the 27 Punjabis killed in Iraq is underway. “Since the families are in shock, we are yet to find out which immigration agents had sent them abroad,” added Harpal.
 
 Jalandhar deputy commissioner   told TOI, “Six DNA samples sent from Jalandhar have been confirmed. I have visited the aggrieved families, but have not yet checked as to who were their immigration agents.”
 
 Sharma agreed that a large number of immigration agents do not register with the authorities for illegal activities. “These are unscrupulous elements and do not want to show their earnings to avoid tax. Otherwise, they have to pay fee of only Rs 20,000 per year which is nothing for them as they earn in lakhs from a single client,” added Sharma.
 
 According to   of IISE Overseas Education Services in Ludhiana, the immigration agents who do not have anything to hide register themselves with the authorities and many are coming forward now. Most the students from Punjab go on study visas to Canada, Australia and New Zealand, he said that the immigration agents do not keep track of those going abroad on tourist visas and only high commission tracks them.
 
 Punjab is the only state in the country to come up with a strong law on human smuggling, but it remains unimplemented since its enactment.
 
 The Act makes it mandatory for all travel agents or in the business of ticketing or consultancy to register themselves with the government. Those who are in trade for over five years have to pay a licence fee of Rs 1 lakh and who have not completed five years have to pay Rs 25,000. Also, while seeking licence, immigration agents should not be involved in any crime. The Act has a provision of a maximum of seven years imprisonment and fine up to Rs 50,000 for any travel agent who acts against the provision of the Act or rules or indulges in human trafficking. The Act also says the office space of immigration agents must be 15 ft x 20 ft.
 
 Various immigration agents, including   and Education Consultants of India, had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court in 2015 and challenged the Punjab government’s jurisdiction to enact the Act. The case is still pending adjudication, but there is no stay on its implementation.
 
 The state immigration agents had earlier also approached the   challenging the Act, but the top court had declined to interfere on June 25, 2015, stating that provisions of the Act were only regulatory and not restrictive. The Act was originally enacted as Prevention of Human Smuggling Act, 2012, but was renamed in 2014 and some of its provisions also diluted after immigration agents had raised objections.
 
 Advocate Anil Malhotra, who had been appearing for the Punjab government in the petitions filed by the immigration agents in the high court, said, “Punjab is the only state to come up with such an Act which defines human smuggling. Even the Central government’s Emigration Act, 1983, is silent about human smuggling. It is need of the hour for the Parliament to legislate an Indian human smuggling law.”
 
 He said piecemeal state legislation with the limited ambit of application will restrict scope only to state territorial borders and unscrupulous fly by night operators would keep taking advantage by trading in death hoodwinking gullible youth to foreign pastures who never reach their El Dorado.
 
 
