PATIALA: From chief minister   to his cabinet colleague Navjot Singh Singh, the who’s who of   attended the two-day celebrations that marked the   of Yadavindra Public School, Patiala. 

 Students and distinguished alumni of   participated in the event that was marked by a colourful cultural extravaganza. 
 
 The CM’s brother, Malwinder Singh, who is the chairperson and member of the school’s board of governors, described the institution’s establishment as the taking of wings of his father’s vision in the difficult times of the Partition. One of the oldest students, Justice S S Sodhi, who graduted in 1949, attended the celebrations on Thursday.
 
 He said the school was today ranked among the best and would continue to strive for progress and excellence, like it had done in the past 70 years.
 
 Former Union minister Dr Karan Singh, son of erstwhile King of Kashmir Hari Singh, paid tributes to Maharaja Yadvindra Singh and described him as a great visionary and an unforgettable personality. Dr Singh, an alumnus of the school, lauded the multiple achievements of YPS and stressed the importance of education in liberating young minds from ignorance, fundamentalism and arrogance.
 
 After the function, Dr Singh, accompanied by the CM, inaugurated Nalagarh Squash Courts in memory of   in the YPS Stadium. However, he refused to answer media queries. When asked about the present situation in Kashmir and its solution, Dr Singh said he had been finding this solution for 70 years and would not be able to comment in such a short time.
 
 Earlier, while addressing the gathering, he called upon the present lot of students at YPS to build their bodies and minds. “To build the India of your dreams, you need to build yourself first,” he said.
 
 In a reference to growing intolerance in society, Dr Singh warned students against falling prey to fundamentalism, pointing out that fundamentalism had ended up in destruction. Brigadier Sukhjit Singh (red), a Mahavir Chakra awardee and scion of the erstwhile   estate, lauded YPS’s role in producing gems in various fields, while urging the students to adopt the art of learning to help them lead a purposeful life.
 
 Former law minister Ashwini Kumar and Indian Olympic Association life president Raja   also attended the event.
 
 
