NEW DELHI: Come  , two major sections of Delhi Metro’s   will be opened to the public. The first segment will extend the   from   to  , through Sarojini Nagar, INA and  , and the second section will open between northeast Delhi’s   and east Delhi’s  .

 The first 21.5km section of Pink Line, between Majlis Park and Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus stations, opened on March 14, while the connecting section between Lajpat Nagar and Mayur Vihar Pocket I is expected to open this September. 
 
  
  
 At present, Lajpat Nagar is connected to the metro network through Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Escorts Mujesar). With the opening of the underground station on Pink Line, it will become an interchange station in June.
 
 The new station near the popular Lajpat Nagar market will be a major boon for shoppers. The line will also connect major shopping destinations of Sarojini Nagar, INA, South Extension and Lajpat Nagar through a single corridor. INA will be another interchange station on the line, bringing Gurgaon closer to west Delhi.
 
 With the opening of the new station at Lajpat Nagar, west Delhi commuters from areas such as Shakarpur, Punjabi Bagh, Rajouri Garden and Mayapuri and north Delhi areas like Majlis Park, Azadpur, Shalimar Bagh, Keshav Puram and Netaji Subhash Place will be able to travel directly to Lajpat Nagar. They will also be able to change trains at Lajpat Nagar to travel to Faridabad or central Delhi areas like Janpath and Mandi House, and the Walled City areas such as Delhi Gate, Jama Masjid, Red Fort and Kashmere Gate. 
 The second section between Shiv Vihar and Trilokpuri will connect major areas of northeast and east Delhi and have interchange stations at Welcome, Karkardooma, Anand Vihar and Mayur Vihar Phase I.
 
 “Initially, we had planned to open the section between South Campus and Mayur Vihar Pocket I at one go but we realised it is better to extend the corridor to Lajpat Nagar early as it will help commuters,” Mangu Singh, managing director of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), told TOI.
 
 “We are going to start signalling trials between Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus and Lajpat Nagar from this month while the Shiv Vihar-Trilokpuri section is already being tested,” said Singh. “We intend to open both sections by June.”
 
 Though Pink Line is going to be the longest corridor in the metro network, it will have a missing link between Mayur Vihar Pocket I and Trilokpuri stations. DMRC hasn’t been able to connect these two stations — at a distance of about 1.5km — due to land problems in Trilokpuri. As a result, the corridor will function in two separate sections — Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket I and Shiv Vihar to Trilokpuri.
  
 
