NEW DELHI:   Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday slammed   Narendra Modi over his “silence” on the   even as he alleged that “people sitting at the top in the central government had helped   flee the country”. 

 “It can’t be a coincidence that he (Nirav Modi) suddenly escaped from the country after a Rs11,000-fraud. Many agencies are involved in this. It’s not possible unless a green signal is given from the top (sic),” Kejriwal said at public function. “How is it possible that one day Vijay Mallya escaped with Rs 9,000 crore and, on another day, Nirav Modi fled with Rs 11,000 crore?” he asked. At a function organised by the Agarwal community at IGI stadium, Kejriwal linked Nirav Modi and Lalit Modi with BJP, accusing the Centre of having “failed” to check corruption. “People are in a panic (mode). Many have come to meet me. They are worried about their money in banks,” the CM said, adding that the PM should break his “silence” to assure people.
 
 Kejriwal alleged that while during the UPA regime, it was Congress that benefited from many scams, it was BJP now that was raking in gains. “This is why no politician from Congress has been sent to jail,” he claimed. “People voted for change in 2014. But corruption cases that started during the Congress regime haven’t been closed yet. People are being fooled,” he said.
 
 The function was organized by the traders’ community to thank Kejriwal for sending businessman Sushil Gupta and chartered accountant N D Gupta to the Rajya Sabha. Their nomination had sparked a row with founder member Kumar Vishwas openly opposing the move. 
 
 However, Kejriwal said: “AAP has two Guptas (Sushil Gupta and N D Gupta), whereas BJP has two Modis (Nirav Modi and Lalit Modi) and, now, it’s up to the country to decide who is honest.” He added: “They were picked on merit not (due to) caste. A group of MLAs suggested Sushil Gupta's name. BJP and Congress termed it as a 2G scam. Their problem is that they (BJP, Congress) hate the Agarwal community,” Kejriwal said. 
 
 
