BAREILLY: The   ( ) has undertaken the task of renovating   shelter home so as to house as many as 100 homeless people at a time. For long, the home had been lying vacant.

  Giving details, municipal commissioner RK Shrivastava told TOI that a budget of Rs 3 crore has been earmarked for renovating the shelter home into a modern facility. It will comprise a kitchen, 10 toilets, a dining hall, a dormitory for sleeping and a lawn. Provisions will be made to provide first-aid and install fire extinguishers in case of any emergency.
 
  Speaking with TOI, municipal commissioner RK Shrivastava said, “The first installment for the renovation of the shelter home has been received. The shelter home was lying unused since the longest time but in order to provide better facilities to the poor, we had decided to renovate it.
 
  “Harunagla shelter home stands on a 2,200 square metre plot and will accommodate around 100 people. The new shelter home will also have a television. As many as 10 big toilets and a dining hall will be constructed and a proper garden laid out,” Shrivastava added. Free food will be provided to one and all.
 
  It will take around four months for the work of the shelter home to complete, the municipal commissioner said.
 
  Officials said Bareilly Municipal Corporation operates a total of 11 shelter homes in different parts of the city but none of these has facilities like toilets in one building. In fact, Harunagla shelter this will be the first have a separate dining hall, kitchen and a lawn, officials said.
 
  “The BMC shelter homes despite having a capacity of around 50-70 people barely see more than four to five people taking refuge there. The main reason is that most of these lack basic amenities, hence failing to serve the purpose for which they were built. However, a modern shelter home will definitely attract homeless, “ said  , a social activist.
 
  Municipal commissioner said, “We will also be renovating the other shelter homes run by BMC. The civic body currently has 11 shelter homes located in different parts of the city — Ayub Khan, Bakerganj, Hajiapur, Choti Vihar,  , Delapir, Badaun road, Old roadways bus stand and Saidpur. All will be renovated at a cost of Rs 1.5 crore and the work will be initiated soon.”
 
 
 
