HYDERABAD: The nearlyshelved   project in   has received a shot in the arm with the   adopting the long-pending Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment) Bill 2017. Once it is passed by the Rajya Sabha too, the Act will empower the government to take up public works even within a 100 metre radius of heritage structures and sites of historical or archaeological importance.

  The passing of the Bill comes amid voices both protesting for and opposing a Metro Rail corridor in the Old City. With both sides stepping up pressure for their cause, a decision on the public transport network in Old City rests on political will. On Thursday, leaders of various political parties attended a round table conference held by the Joint Action Committee on Metro Rail for Old City.
 
 Many local residents, members of the BJP and a section of the TRS in the Old City are demanding speedy completion of the entire JBS-Falaknuma corridor as it would connect the areas south of the Musi with the IT corridor in   and Gachibowli.
  
  
 “What you call the Old City was the actual city of Hyderabad. Even now, a bulk of revenue comes from the Old City as people from around the world visit Hyderabad to see Charminar, Golconda, Makkah Masjid and shop in the Lad Bazar,” said Osman Bin Mohammad Al Hajri, president of Deccan Wakf Protection Society and member of   JAC. Those in favour of Metro Rail are urging the government to go ahead as all ‘obstacles’ have been removed.
 
 Heritage conservationists and the MIM, on the other hand, are opposed to the proposed corridor as they fear an impact on at least three dozen heritage structures. Activists claim that the new rules would lead to a mushrooming of constructions under the pretext of ‘public purpose’. An alternative route was proposed, but it was kept in cold storage.
 
 The JBS-Falaknuma corridor passes within 100m radius of several heritage structures, including the Darul Shifa, Azakhana Zehra, Purani Haveli and   temple.
 
 “Most of the structures will not be affected by Metro Rail project. The government needs to acquire private properties.,” said senior Islamic scholar and historian Allama Aijaz Farruq. He said a majority of the heritage structures are on one side of the road and that the government, if needed, can acquire private properties on the other side.
 
 INTACH Telangana coconvener P Anuradha Reddy has also suggested tramways in Old City to avoid damage to heritage structures.
 
 
 
