NEW DELHI: The owner of Gitanjali Gems,  , who is also an accused in the Rs 11,300 crore  , today released a letter to his employees in which he said that he has done nothing wrong and truth shall prevail.

 
  "I will face my destiny and I know I have done nothing wrong and ultimately the truth shall prevail," Choksi said in a letter released by his lawyer Sanjay Abbot.
 
  
  
 
 Choksi expressed his "helplessness" to clear the dues of his company's 3,500 employees as investigative agencies have seized his bank accounts and other properties.
 
 "I am facing a lot of problems due to the manner in which the multiple investigative agencies/ government agencies have started to create a havoc, hell bent upon stopping the operations," he added.
 
 Highlighting the "situation of fear and injustice" created against him and the company, Choksi suggested to employees that in view of the uncertainty looming over payment of dues, termination of office operations, and "unfair investigation", they begin scouting for alternate career options.
 
  The top businessman also clarified that laptops, mobile phones issued by the organisation can remain with employees until dues were cleared, adding that relieving letters and experience certificates would be issued to them when necessary.
 
  Choksi also maintained his stance of being falsely accused of defrauding PNB, and assured that employee dues would be cleared once justice is served and the situation returns to normalcy.
 
  He also expressed his fear of safety for himself and his family on account of the ongoing "unfair treatment, investigation, media frenzy and political statements", and alleged that the probe was being done to create a fear psychosis in the minds of employees.
 
 Choksi's letter comes a day after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) investigated around 144 "suspicious companies “associated with diamond merchant and his nephew  .
 
  The companies were investigated to check if these firms laundered money through the Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) method.
 
 Later in the day, Abbot refused to divulge details of Choski’s whereabouts and said that the letter was intended to inform the employees of the present state of the company and its inability to pay their dues.
 
 "Yes, we are in touch. That is a privilege communication between me and my client, I am not supposed to disclose. I have no idea where is he. Letter was written because everything has been sealed/seized my client is not in a position to operate any account to pay the employees. So it was written to tell them that they are free," said Abbot, according to ANI.
 
  Earlier this month, Punjab National Bank (PNB) had disclosed the involvement of Nirav Modi and Choksi in the mutli-crore scam. 
 
 PNB lodged two financial fraud complaints of Rs 11400 crore and Rs 280 crore against Nirav Modi, his family members and the owner of Gitanjali Gems.
 
 Following which, the external affairs ministry had cancelled the passports of both the jewellers for four weeks.
 
  The government also announced a multi-agency probe into Nirav Modi's dealings and the I-T department swung into action, provisionally attaching 29 properties and 105 accounts linked to Nirav Modi and his family, even as he surfaced at a luxurious hotel suite in New York.
 
  On February 17, according to reports on television channels, Nirav Modi, along with his family, was traced to a swish 36th-floor suit at JW Marriott's Essex House.
 
 
 
 
