PUNE:   has always been regarded as one of the classiest players on the international circuit, but till this season, he wasn’t exactly regarded as an   star. Things turned around after   was ruled out due to ball-tampering charges and the genial New Zealander took over as the SRH captain. 

 
 In the 11 outings so far, the Williamson has scored 493 runs at an impressive strike-rate of 135.43. However, the hallmark of Williamson’s batting has been his calmness under pressure and the use of proper cricketing shots. Add to that his ability to keep the scoreboard ticking with those well-judged singles and twos and you have a complete T20 package who can be extremely effective without being overly adventurous.
 
 To top that, Williamson has shown amazing consistency to make it count each time he got his eye in. He has six half-centuries this season, and more often than not, the Kiwi is seen anchoring the SRH batting which sometimes looks wobbly owing to the up-and-down form of the likes of Shikhar Dhawan and Manish Pandey.
 
 SRH coach Tom Moody, though, says he is not surprised that Williamson has shaped up so well in the IPL this year. “To be honest, it’s not been a surprise for us (to see Kane scoring so well in T20s). Kane has been a good T20 player for a number of years. People now are getting to see the versatility in him,” said Moody.
 
 But the situation was a lot different when Williamson first came to the scene. In his first few years of international cricket, Williamson was branded as a reliable player suited more for the longer formats. But that didn’t stop him from developing his T20 game.
 
 The 27-year-old Kiwi caught everyone’s attention when he slammed his maiden T20 hundred (an unbeaten 49-ball 101) for Northern Knights against Cape Cobras during a Champions League clash back in 2014. Moody feels that particular innings provided a glimpse of what “Williamson could offer in T20 cricket”.
 
 According to the Aussie coach, Williamson’s ability to read the situation well and back his game with self-belief has made him an all-format player. “He has the ability to adapt from Tests to ODIs to T20s, and that’s why we bought him on the first place,” said Moody.
 
 At the SRH practice session here on the eve of their clash against Chennai Super Kings, Williamson spent a good one hour on his batting drills. While not one mistimed shot came off his blade, the innovative side of Williamson, too, was on offer when he deftly played those scoops, which have become part-and-parcel of T20 cricket. Now, call Kane conventional at your own peril.
 
