NOIDA: Officials at the   have to literally cross a stream to reach their office buildings. The stream, in this case, is brimming with   water that emanates foul smell deeming it inaccessible to visitors and government workers alike. The offices of the district consumer forum (DCF), district inspector of schools (DIOS), basic shiksha adhikari (BSA), sales tax and commandant of home guards are flooded with drain water.

 The situation is so grave that the lawyers and judges working at the consumer forum have to be dropped by junior employees to reach the office as the water is almost two-foot deep. The situation is same at the office of the commandant of home guards located next to the DCF office.
 
 Aditya Bhati, a lawyer told TOI that while the water had been rising in the surroundings for the past three-four days, on Tuesday night, it started entering the forum office which got flooded by Wednesday morning. Lawyers and judges are taking help from bikers to drop them till the entry of the forum,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan jokes could be heard doing the rounds as the clerks and officials covered their noses to avoid the stinking water.
 
 A senior official said that the issue of the drainage was not new. Earlier too, water would accumulate around the offices. “The matter has been brought to the notice of the DM in an official meeting and CEO of Greater Noida Authority through a letter a few months ago but to no avail,” he said.
 
 “The problem has risen out of a culvert in the drainage flowing next to the offices. This culvert has been jammed with polythene coming from the residential areas in Surajpur and water is flowing out. While the Greater Noida Authority officials had started pumping out the water, the main problem of the culvert was not looked into,” said an official who frequents the forum.
 
 Greater Noida Authority CEO Debasish Panda said that the matter is being looked into. DM BN Singh whose office is in front of these offices said that the matter was never brought to his notice but said that it falls under the jurisdiction of the Authority. “It will be looked into,” he said.
 
 
