Nagpur: Nagpur bench of Bombay high court, on Monday, started hearing bail applications of two Naxalites — Prashant Rahi alias Narayan Sanglikar and   Tirki, who also prayed for suspension of their life sentences. Both the accused, close associates of “Maoists think tank” Gokarakonda Naga Saibaba, challenged their conviction by Gadchiroli Sessions Court on March 7 last year.

 The case was listed before a division bench comprising justices   and Murlidhar Giratkar, who adjourned the hearing till Tuesday.
 
 The duo, along with mentor Saibaba, were convicted for aiding and abetting Naxalite activities and waging war against the nation. Mahesh Tirki, Hem Mishra, and Pandu Narote are the other accused in the case. All of them, except Tirki, were awarded lifer under Sections 13, 18, 20, 38 and 39 of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) along with Section 120B of IPC for criminal conspiracy. Tirki was awarded ten years of rigorous imprisonment, considering his limited role and his first attempt.
 
 Senior counsel Nitya Ramakrishnan came all the way from Delhi to defend the duo. Even the Maharashtra government roped in Shardul Singh from Mumbai as special public prosecutor (SPP) to plead the government’s side against Rahi, a resident of Chandrashekar Nagar, Dehradun, Uttrakhand.
 
 Prashant Sathianathan, who successfully pleaded the case as SPP in Gadchiroli court, would be defending the prosecution against Tirki on Tuesday.
 
 Earlier, Ramakrishnan contended that Rahi was falsely implicated in the case and the prosecution had failed to submit concrete evidence against him. She pointed out various loopholes in the session’s court verdict stating that it was not maintainable.
 
 Countering her, SPP Singh argued that when Rahi was arrested with Vijay on September 2, 2013 at Deori T-Point in  , coming under Gondia district, incriminating material, including Naxalites literature and Maoists letters were received from them. It was found that Vijay was actively involved in facilitating Rahi’s visit to Abuzmad for meeting with senior Naxalites leaders who were hiding there. He also pointed out that Rahi was seen sharing stage with Saibaba.
 
 Singh added that both accused conspired with the underground member Ramdar of banned organization CPI (Maoist) and its frontal origination RDF. As per latter’s diktats, Vijay tried to take the Rahi to Abuzmad forests. It was Saibaba who arranged meetings of Mishra and Rahi with the underground members of banned Maoists organizations. 
 
 The   professor had handed over the microchip SD memory card of 16GB of Sandisc company containing vital Maoist communications and other documents to Mishra and Rahi with intention to further the activities of Naxalites organization CPI (Maoist) and RDF.
 
 
