The   ceremony makes for newsy stories and good photo-ops each year. As does IFFI. As does Cannes. But is there a lasting relevance to what happens, who wins, once the stories stop trending? Does the film industry relate to what the government structures put in place? Do the government and its bodies understand the nuances of a creative, free space such as filmmaking? Do they even engage beyond the sparring over censorship? What is changing – and what ought to? A day before the National Awards ceremony in Delhi, we assembled a gathering of minds who had the credentials to talk about this – Information and Broadcasting Minister  , Chairperson of the jury for the 65th National Awards  ,   Chairman and lyricist   and CBFC member  . They explained what the learnings from the Awards were (‘small regional filmmakers are doing amazing stuff’), what the ministry plans to do differently at   (show that amazing stuff on a global platform), and how the balance between administrative structures and creativity is a fine line they have to walk on.

 
 
 
 
  I think the functionality of the ministry is bettered when collaborative conversations happen, where the industry is also open to understanding that whatever function we want to do – be it Berlin, be it IFFI or for that matter even a conversation about the National Film Awards – that has to happen within the context of a particular law. Because the money that the government is going to spend is not my money. It is actually your money, the taxpayer’s money. So, at least from my point of view today, I see the functionality of the I&B Ministry in two-three different verticals. I tell the administrators that your job, your responsibility, is to ensure that the letter of the law is followed, but leave the creative vertical to do what it does best. You can’t teach a Shekhar Kapur how to discuss the craft or how to implement the craft, or how to judge the craft. What you can do is make the environment for him conducive enough for free thinking. At the same time, you have to be conscious of the fact that he doesn’t use it as a platform for implementing his personal agenda.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  I’ve always slept well irrespective of who is in charge, because fundamentally, what matters is as a politician or as a Member of Parliament, you go only by the book. As an administrator, my job is that within that fulcrum of law, I position the best possible professional to do the job and then I back away. So, today I had the privilege for the first time – though I have been an actor – to have legends sit there and read out ki inko National Award kal milne wala hai (the discussion was happening the day before the formal announcement). And I had absolutely no clue till then. People told me that before this there were many times that ek phone aayega ki “isme aapka interest hai”. 
 
 
  The biggest difference that Smriti ji, to me, makes is that she is genuinely interested. I have seen what being not interested can do. If you are genuinely interested, you are interested in knowing the nuance of what you do, and I think that’s where it makes a difference. What I feel we often do in India is, we have become very combative about, when you say, collaboration. ‘Collaboration’ is a word which we use in interviews, but actually, we are combative. We are finding reasons... pehle yeh nahi sochte ki sahi kya kar raha hai, pehle yeh sochte hain ki galat kya kiya. That combativeness is reflecting in everything. 
 
 
  Aaj agar Bhartiya cinema ko dekhte hain toh do parallel universe hain jo ek saath exist kar rahe hain. Ek jo sirf Friday se Monday tak ki journey karti hai aur ussi space ko negotiate karti hai, they arbitrate only those four days of a release of a film. The other parallel universe, which is not negotiated, is storytelling... There is an organic storytelling which is developing – small, beautiful films from every nook and corner from every possible state of the country are emerging.
 
 
  My biggest takeaway from being the chairman of the National Awards is that I was shocked with the quality of regional cinema, because we don’t watch it that often.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 I fear for Hindi cinema. I fear for Hindi cinema because it is actually caught in a trap of its own. It’s like, you know, what happens in incestuous families – they become so incestuous that they are not progressing. What you need is new genes, they are not coming, and it is collapsing under its own arrogance. As to regional cinema – I was amazed by new stories. I was constantly amazed at the level of performances. I was amazed at the films that came from Lakshadweep, from Odisha, from Assam. And then when I sat and compared them with Hindi cinema, I kind of felt ashamed of where I came from, which is from what we call Bollywood. Unless new blood comes and conflicts with the old blood and new things emerge, and Hindi cinema catches up, it is in deep trouble. I saw world-beating cinema. I thought yeh toh will win all the awards at all the festivals. That came not from Bombay but from regional cinema.
 
 
 
 
 
 No no, of course they are not. But they are fundamentally based in reality and the way they present that reality is so compelling that you can’t take your eyes away. I think that the next rise of cinema in India would definitely come from regional cinema. And then we will go back to a kind of balance where Bombay or the film industry in India doesn’t think that it dominates all the films in India. 
 I did not expect to be captivated for 12 days by regional cinema. It blew my mind. Where are these filmmakers? Where did they come from? How did they come up? And they came up on their own steam. They all fought their way through to make some relevant, compelling cinema. I’m not going to say box office, because some of them have not been tried. But very compelling: keep you rooted to your seat, you come out emotionally torn at the end of it. Who helped them? I don’t know. How did they suddenly change? I don’t know. Where was this kind of a film? And I say to myself, why is this film not at Cannes? It would have won Cannes. Why is this film not at Berlin? It would have won Berlin. I know! Because I see all the Cannes films, I see all the Berlin films. 
 
 
 I think, probably, this is happening because cinema has started re-circulating itself. Cinema learns from cinema. Agar cinema hi aapka inspiration hai, there you would become repetitive. I think these people... jise anubhoot satya kehte hain, the first-hand experience of life is converting itself into cinema. That is the reason you’re seeing this authenticity.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  I just want to add to this. In the beginning of this conversation, we were looking for the role of the government, and where does the government fit into this chaos. The very fact that Shekhar ji had that whole kind of cinema come up for the chairperson to watch – how did that happen? It happens when you set up those teams that regionally actually pick up good cinema. So, in my discovery of how to make systems better, I realized – and this is all thanks to Vani – that even at IFFI, everybody came back and said, iss baar saari filmein achhi thi. Why? Because, for the first time, we said, can we leave the bureaucrat out of picking the film? I have never – in my entire journey as an actor over the years – heard of a film originating from Lakshadweep!
 
 
 
 
 
 I think that more than that, we as an industry have lost too much time. There was a time when everybody was very proud of the fact that independent filmmakers, small filmmakers, had that ecosystem of support. That has degenerated over a number of years. We have to now resurrect that process. I was telling Vani that the films that have been seen (as part of the National Awards process), we can possibly curate a small number of them and take them to Cannes. That ‘these are the films that India awarded’. And show the world that even if you don’t want to show them at Cannes or whatever, we want to show you our prowess as a nation, the diversity of our language, the diversity of our craft. But, in support of Hindi cinema, people no longer look at just the lead actor or the lead actress. Now, they look at other actors and go and watch a film for other actors as well, who should not really be called “supporting” actors. And there are also actors who are deigned stars, who are making some very, very good choices even in Hindi cinema.   is how old, barely 24-25. How many different films, what a brilliant, big, huge body of work and so diverse. Or when I saw ' ', I laughed my head off, I can’t take   out of my head. 
 
 
  I have been on the jury of Cannes and every major festival in the world. The films I saw (in the National Film Awards) are the kind of films we award Best Film (at such platforms). When we came to the deliberations, we started with ‘that performance is great’, ‘but what about that performance?’ And I realized that we were full of performances that were outstanding. Not just good, but outstanding. We just scratched our heads and said, ‘Now how do we award them? How do we differentiate, because these films are brilliant’. We kept fighting constantly and we were at each other’s throats. But we also knew that the other jury member was right.
 
 
  None of your fights made it to any newspaper thankfully. Thank God (laughs).
 
 
 Why do Cannes or many festivals become what they become? Because they are also marketing, branding tools. They make a piece of work very coveted and as a result, you put it as a stamp on a DVD and suddenly it starts attracting people.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Yes! I wonder, why don’t we have the stamp of the National Award? What better can you get than Shekhar Kapur’s stamp on a film? And what should that stamp do for you? As a marketing person, I’m telling you, it should create a huge market for this young filmmaker who never thought he would be able to have that kind of money. This branding can help youngsters, fresh filmmakers, to reach out to people who would otherwise not get an opportunity in the clutter – so much of clutter. We should create these institutions as brands so that they can help newer people. Not just the might should win, the right should also win!
 
 
  It’s very important to understand this. There are independent filmmakers who have not found a release in their own homeland, they have gone elsewhere. You see those olive leaves, saying ‘Best Film’, ‘Best Screening’, ‘Best Opening Film’, and then they have come back and found a voice here. It actually has to be the opposite. It should never be that I find my reputation somewhere else, after having done hard work here, and then I take the journey in reverse gear. That’s really a shame. And I think that is what the new initiative is going to do – changing that.
 
 
  If a new filmmaker can say that I have just won a National Award, and more people start going to the theatre to watch this film, you are not only doing a service to people, because they are going to get to see a great film, you are also doing service to the industry by giving them this tool. I was talking to many filmmakers at IFFI, who got their first opportunity to watch international films because they had a festival, jahaan pe subsidize hoke aapko cheezein milti hain. In sab ko bachaenge aap, ki khatam karenge?
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  For the first time, we’ve taken the decision of converging NFDC, Children’s Film Society, amalgamating all of it and bringing it under one umbrella body. Because everything about cinema in terms of governance was scattered. And I implored that if you have some ideation, because cinema then and cinema now and government intervention... How can we support those very filmmakers – who Prasoon is very passionately talking about – who don’t have people supporting them? How can we go and support their work, how can I support their reach to festivals internationally, how can we support those scripts in languages that are rare now or extinct now, or from places where barely one film gets made? Those are the support systems and structures that we are trying to re-engineer and start. But not only because some bureaucrat or some minister is sitting there, drawing it out. We are asking the stalwarts of Indian cinema – and not only Hindi cinema – to come, sit together on the drawing board and redraw the canvas now, for Indian cinema, through governance. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  (Laughs)
 
 
  No, no! Those days are gone. The Film Facilitation Office (FFO) will have a very major role to play. The co-production treaties that we have with 17-odd countries, they would be just pieces of paper if we don’t have a proactive approach between the single-window clearances, the FFO being more proactive, and the co-production hub. It is the ease of ‘shoot in India’ which will become a big hallmark as far as Cannes this year is concerned. 
 
 
  
  
 Vani Tripathi Tikoo, Smriti Irani, Shekhar Kapur and Prasoon Joshi
 
 
 
 
 
