Visakhapatnam: The demonetisation of high-value currency notes in November 2016 dealt a near-fatal blow to the residential real-estate market in Visakhapatnam, the largest city in Andhra Pradesh. However, the market is showing the green shoots of recovery,   industry sources said on Monday.

 “The residential real-estate market is dependent almost entirely on middle-class, salaried buyers who stopped looking for a house to buy when demonetisation was enforced, because they could no longer pay 50% of the cost of the apartment in unaccounted cash or black money to builders who were demanding such payments. This also forced builders to stop new projects and focus on completing ongoing projects. The apartment inventory has slowly disappeared, and new projects are being announced in suburbs like Madhurawada,” said DRK Raju, managing director of Aruna Constructions.
 
 According to another Vizag-based developer, who did not wish to be identified fearing retaliation from the state government, the government has not been enforcing the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act 2016 in the state. Under the Act, all commercial and residential real estate projects spread over more than 500 sq metres of land, or those proposing to build more than eight apartments, are required to register the projects with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) in each state. In Andhra Pradesh, the Department of Municipal Administration & Urban Development is responsible for the enforcement of RERA, which has been in force in the state since May last year, but the department has been neglecting the enforcement, he said.
 
 “The non-enforcement of RERA in AP means that all the corruption that was bedevilling the real-estate market prior to the Act’s enactment in December 2016 is back with a vengeance. Corruption is once again rampant, though it has reduced marginally because most of the permissions sought for new projects are now filed online. But then again, revenue department officials are known to go-slow on the approvals claiming that the application portal was down, so that they can collect bribes for giving approvals,” the source, who has completed several residential projects in Visakhapatnam, said.
 
 The real-estate sector also does not have collective bargaining power, because industry association like the Confederation of Real Estate Developers of India (CREDAI) are defunct in Vizag. “CREDAI now exists in Vizag only on paper, because nobody listens to the association, and the district administration has no time for CREDAI. This is unlike in Vijayawada, where CREDAI has the support of local MLAs, who go with CREDAI to meet with the commissioner of the municipal corporation. The MLAs’ support means that the VMC officials don’t delay approvals. In Vizag, local MLAs say they want nothing to do with the real-estate industry,” the source said.
 
 According to DRK Raju, demand for new apartments has been growing in suburbs like Madhurawada. “There is no land available in central areas like Seethammadhara, Beach Road and Pandurangapuram, and whatever land parcel comes on the market is prohibitively expensive. This means that the average price in these areas is Rs 6,000 per sq foot. But there are few buyers at that rate in Vizag,” he said.
 
 Raju said that the current price in Madhurawada was between Rs 3,000 and Rs 3,500 per sq foot, while the rate in Madhavadhara, another suburb, is between Rs 4,000 and Rs 4500 per sq foot. Apartments are available for between Rs 2,000—Rs 2,500 per sq foot in other suburbs like Anandapuram, Vepagunta and Pendurthi, but few people want to buy apartments there because of a lack of infrastructure like good roads, schools and shopping centres. 
 
 “The government should build infrastructure in the suburbs so that demand for housing in those areas is stimulated, but there is no hint of such investments by the government anytime soon,” Raju said.
 
 
