KOLKATA: There will be some familiar faces in unfamiliar colours when   clash with   at the Eden Gardens on Sunday.

 
 Umesh Yadav, a vital cog of KKR bowling arsenal for the last four seasons, will be leading RCB attack for the first time. On the other hand, Vinay Kumar, who represented RCB for five seasons (2008-10, 2012, 2013), will be back in KKR attire after four years.
 
 “It will be a different feeling for sure, but won’t be my first match at Eden in a non-KKR shirt. I played for the Delhi Daredevils at the Eden in 2010 and 2011,” said Umesh.
 
 Asked whether he will miss the fan support, Umesh said, “I have many happy memories of my association with KKR, but IPL is a tournament where you can represent different teams. I hope that my fans will continue to root for me.”
 
 Vinay Kumar, on the other hand, might see his record of being the highest wicket-taker for RCB being surpassed by his teammate Yuzvendra Chahal this season. The wrist spinner needs three more wickets to go past Kumar’s mark of 72 wickets.
 
 “I was not aware of that,” he stated when it was pointed out to him. “It will be nice to get past Vinay bhai with whom I have shared the dressing room for so many years. I may have 70 wickets, but I have to start afresh this season,” he said.
 
 Chahal will also have his India teammate Kuldeep Yadav as his rival on Sunday. “He is like my little brother. We know each other for the last six-seven years. We enjoy a good rapport. Even during IPL we keep track of each other’s performance and discus points. It will be interesting to have him in the rival camp,” Chahal stated.
 
 England’s Chris Woakes and New Zealand’s Colin de Grandhomme, who made their IPL debut last season, will be up against their old franchise as they will wear the RCB colours this time.
 
 Kohli to bat at No.3
 Skipper Kohli will return to No. 3 position in the batting order after opening the innings in the last two seasons.
 
 “In the past, the situation warranted me to open the innings,” the skipper said on Saturday, the eve of RCB’s opening match against the Kolkata Knight Riders at the Eden Gardens. “I quite enjoyed that role but now we have specialists in that position,” he pointed out.
 
 With Brendon McCullum, Quinton de Kock and Parthiv Patel all capable of facing the new ball, Kohli said “I’ve a good understanding of playing at No. 3 and that gives the team a lot of stability, too. We are going to be flexible, adapting to situations and kind of pitches but I will come in at No. 3.”
 
 
