GURUGRAM: Three cops of the crime unit of Sector 17, including its in-charge, were injured, when over 70 villagers of Ghata Shamsabad near   in  , around 80 km from Gurugram, attacked a police team, which had gone there to nab a notorious   thief Sahid alias Advani. 

 Suspected to be a key member of a bigger gang, Advani, a native of Kharkhari village near Tauru, had earlier escaped arrest by the Bilaspur crime unit in the first week of March, after he pushed a cop and ran away. There was a Rs 25,000 reward on his head.
 
 The incident took place around 4pm on Tuesday. Ghata Shamsabad villagers, including women and children, pelted   at the police team and freed the accused. The injured cops are admitted in Medanta Hospital, where the condition of the   in-charge of the Sector 17 crime unit, Narender Chauhan, is reportedly critical. The two hurt constables, Deepak and Rajesh, are out of danger. According to cops, women and children of the village laid down in front of their vehicles, forcing them to stop. When they got out, the entire village pelted stones at them. A complaint was later registered by sub-inspector on probation Surender Singh, who headed the Bilaspur crime unit, at Firozpur Zhirka police station.
 
 According to the complaint, he was tipped-off in the morning that Advani was hiding with friends Sabbir, Pappu and Hakku in Ghata Shamsabad village. Accordingly, a team of over 50 cops, including 11 from Bilaspur crime unit, nine from Sector 17 crime unit, six from Sector 10A PS, six from Sector 40 PS, nine from Sector 9 PS and seven from Sector 39 PS gathered in the Bilaspur crime unit office to carry out the operation. 
 
 A raid was then conducted on the home of Sabbir at around 4pm, with cops of Firozpur Zhirka PS. Surender Singh recognised Advani and caught him, who shouted for help. “In no time, more than 80 villagers, mostly family members of Sabbir, Hakku, Taufiq, Habib, Surri, Aalam Chaudhary and Asluf, gathered there. They went on rampage, while the women and children intercepted cops, and the other men fetched stones and started pelting them, eventually freeing Advani from police grasp. 
 
 Advani ran into a house and emerged with a gun and began firing it. His accomplice Pappu hit inspector Narender Chauhan from behind with a stick and also thrashed head constable Rajesh and constable Deepak. Eventually, police resorted to firing in the air to disperse the crowd, but the accused managed to escape, reads the complaint. “The villagers threw big stones and freed the accused. We barely managed to extricate ourselves from the village. An FIR was later registered at Firozpur Zhirka police station,” said Surender Singh. 
 
 
