NEW DELHI: With four teams having played seven matches and the other four eight, the business end of the   will start in earnest with play-off spots getting tougher to seal. Defending champions Mumbai Indians sit at sixth place, followed by Royal Challengers Bangalore at seventh.

 
 
 
 
 
 The two teams play each other today in Bengaluru, and both are desperate for wins to remain in the hunt for the play-offs. Observing the   2018 scenario closely, Sir   believes that how the two skippers,   and  , fare in today’s match-up will be decisive. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “We are half-way through   and the four teams that make up the bottom half of the table are looking to turn things around. Mumbai and Bangalore have brilliant teams on paper, but the ball hasn’t seemed to stick for either of them just yet. In a must-win match for both teams, it will be interesting to see what this encounter holds and how the two smashing Indian skippers will leave their mark,” wrote Richards in today’s Times of India. 
 
 
 
 
 “Virat and Rohit have been in great form but their team’s all-round performance needs to improve if they want to qualify for the playoffs. The Bangalore boys have always had a bowling concern and the same has been haunting them this season too. With a fantastic batting line-up that manages to get runs on the board, their bowling in the death overs has been below par and their poor fielding has made their case worse. Failure of getting the basics right has definitely cost Virat and his men a number of games, just as dropping an easy catch of [Chris] Lynn deprived them of a win in the previous match,” he added. 
 
 “Given the current table standings, both   and   need to find their ground fast and start their road to redemption. Adapting to the pressure and the flow of the match is very important in the forthcoming crunch games.” 
 
 In an IPL season in which several lesser-known bowlers have made heads turn, and where teams with varied bowling attacks have succeeded the most, it is Sunrisers Hyderabad which has impressed Richards the most. The swashbuckling West Indian legend picked out SRH as the team with the most potent bowling resources. 
 
 “Bowling is as important as batting in T20 cricket, changing the perception since its origin, as we have seen with Hyderabad this season. SRH seems to be the master defenders and winners of a lot of the low scoring games with Rashid Khan and Siddarth Kaul picking up wickets in every match. The Sunrisers bowling this season has been a happy surprise, which will hopefully give them more victories,” wrote Richards of the franchise which sits second on the IPL 2018 leaderboard but with the same points (12) as toppers Chennai Super Kings. 
 
 
