BENGALURU: Contradicting Karnataka energy minister DK Shivakumar’s categorical denial, official documents say he had admitted to unintentionally tearing a loose sheet during income-tax raids on him on August 2, 2017, and regretted it too.

 The minister had been charged by the I-T department under Sections 201 and 204 (destruction of evidence) along with violating Section 276 C (i) of the Income-Tax Act 1961 in the backdrop of the three-day-long searches conducted on his premises.
 
 The department had stated he had torn a loose sheet of paper when officials searched him in room No. 216 at   on the city’s outskirts. An economic offences court in Bengaluru had taken cognizance of the department’s charges.
 
 
 
 
  had attributed political motive to the I-T probe and had put up a brave front, asking: “Who says I had torn some documents? Is there any proof ?”
 
 However, the I-T documents speak otherwise. The minister in his sworn statement recorded under Section 132
 
 (4) of the Income-Tax Act 1961had told I-T sleuths: “Sir, it was not intentionally done. I had just woken up and, immediately on the commencement of search, I was a little nervous. I confirm that this loose sheet which was torn was retrieved and seized during the search proceedings, which is also acknowledged by me in annexure to the panchanama. I regret this untoward incident.”
 
 TOI has copies of his statement to the deputy director (investigations). The I-T officials told the court they had requested the minister to cooperate and hand over all documents and materials in his possession for verification when they searched his room in Eagleton Resort where he was hosting a group of   MLAs in the run-up to a   poll. The department, in its complaint to the court, said, “During the search proceedings, in his personal wallet a piece of paper was found. The accused immediately took out the said paper and tore it. The officers immediately collected the paper and reassembled it. The paper recorded certain financial transactions. He specifically admitted to his act of misconduct of tearing of piece of paper at the resort and regretted the untoward incident.”
 
 Based on the notings on the paper and crosschecking with names mentioned on it, the I-T sleuths pointed out to a tax evasion of Rs 5 crore by the minister.
 
 As for notings made on other loose sheets recovered from the minister, the I-T department quoted the minister as stating “that the notings made on the loose sheets seized from him in the room also had expenses estimated to be incurred for purchase of jewellery for my family members along with the amounts. I have not purchased the jewellery yet. All other pages contain the general information pertaining to my   party affairs, some business notings on sites not registered, etc... having no financial implications.”
 
 
