GANDHINAGAR: Speaking on the demands of the   department, deputy chief minister   promised the house that the state government will complete the unfinished Narmada canal work by 2019, in reply to a questions by   MLAs.

 During the discussion on the Narmada department, Congress MLA Virji Thummar said, “Before the elections the BJP government promised lot to farmers, after them its has stopped giving water to farmers. This has happened for the first time in the 60 years of Gujarat. Despite spending a whopping Rs 6,671 crore to fill other dams with Narmada water, the majority of dams have little water. The BJP government wasted water by filling other dams in the monsoon and to fly a seaplane from the Sabarmati riverfront. Instead of using Narmada water judiciously for the people’s welfare, the BJP used it for political gains only.”
 
 Nitin Patel, to the allegations by Congress leaders, said that the Congress never intended to complete the   dam. He said the will of PM   and the BJP government had ensured the dam work was completed.
 
 To the Congress’s criticism of the incomplete canal network, Patel said, “I want to make a conscious promise to the house, that our government will complete the unfinished canal network by the end of 2019. Some 52,231km of the canal network has been completed and 10,532km of work is under progress. About 21,841km of underground pipeline work has been completed, through which irrigation capacity has been increased by 8 lakh hectares.”
 
 Patel said, “Considering the less quantity of water this time, against 0.20 million acre-feet (MAF) water allocated to industry from 9 MAF, we are presently providing only 0.06 MAF, which is a 1.25% of the 4.8 MAF allocated water this year. With only half the water storage compared to last year, we provided water for kharif crop irrigation and the rabi crop. For seven months, there was no cut in water supply. We have sufficient water. To get more flood water storage, the IBPT (irrigation bypass tunnel) was constructed in 2001. However, we never needed to use it since then. Considering this year’s needs, we requested the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) to use the IBPT and are using it since February 20.”
 
 Box
 
 Statue of Unity 65% complete
 
 Nitin Patel told the house that 65% of the work on the Statue of Unity has been completed. The remaining work is expected to be complete by October 2018.
 
 
