Washim: Cracked mud walls and the parched ground give resemblance to a desert hamlet at Bhoyani village in Washim on the western corner of Vidarbha. Three years of dry spell has left the farm output dwindled, and now there is not a drop of water here.

 Failing agriculture has led to many a young shift to Mumbai or Pune to work as daily wagers. They leave behind the elderly to fend for themselves in the long dry spell. The able bodied walk up to 3 kms to fetch water and those who cannot are on others’ mercy to spare water for them. The villagers had blocked the highway for an hour on Tuesday demanding that they should be covered under the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (groundwater authority) scheme as well.
 
 There is no water for the last three months at Bhoyani, a village of 1,800 population. The source from where water was drawn to the village overhead tank has dried up. Located in Manora tehsil of Washim district, Bhoyani is among a number other villages in the area where getting the daily requirement of water is a grim struggle for the locals.
 
 TOI travelled 350 kms in Washim to discover that summers, which are always bad, have got worse this year in the district. Washim is perhaps facing the biggest water crisis of the times.
 
 A weakened Sauvkibai Rathore, in her eighties, stares blankly lying on a cot outside the home. “We returned from Mumbai just a day ago only to find that there was no grain of food or water at home. A potful was borrowed from the neighbourhood, but we are penniless now,” says her daughter-in-law Laxmi, trying to control her tears. “The family had an acre of farm which they sold for the old woman’s treatment and the couple worked in Mumbai leaving a teenaged son home,” added a relative living close by.
 
 A little away lives Devlibai with her ailing husband Ghasi Rathore. With their children working in Mumbai, the couple has a similar story.
 
 “Poor yields due to a series of dry spells have forced many to migrate. There isn’t any irrigation facility in the entire area. There is hardly a family from which a member has not migrated,” says Sanjay Rathore. A local, he is also a leader of Gor Sena, an outfit of Banjara community which had organized the blockade. The area has a large population of Banjaras.
 
 “Tanker operators are minting money. Those who can afford, buy a tankful for Rs30 each but not all have the money,” added Namdeo Ade, former deputy sarpanch of the village.
 
 “There must be nearly 10 villages which do not get water from the Jeevan Pradhikaran scheme,” said Prashant Powar from Khapri, a neighbouring village.
 
 Rahul Videady, district collector, said villages which do not have any source of water are covered under the Jeevan Pradhikaran scheme, so not all can be included. The officer blamed the villagers for having dried up their own sources of water. “Ask the villagers how many private bores are there in the area due to which the groundwater is depleted,” he said.
 
 Villages normally have their own borewells from which water is supplied through overhead tanks. At Sivani village, close to Amravati border, women were seen filling up their pots from a tap fitted to a tank meant for the cattle to quench their thirst. “The water comes from a bore in the nearby village. Our own source has dried up. We get it only once a week,” said one of them.
 
 “It’s worse for the cattle. These days we are depending on the tank owned by a madrassa nearby,” said Dhammadeep Thorat, the sarpanch here.
 
 “We are deepening the well so that it lasts throughout the summer. It’s not only the cattle, even wild animals like deer and blue bulls quench their thirst here,” said Azeem Khan, madrassa teacher. Even the deepest of the wells have dried up this time, he adds.
 
 The collector, however, maintained that it’s not the worse summer as compared to pervious years. “It was a bad year indeed in 2015-16, when 90 tankers were deployed. This year, we hope to manage with 70 at the most,” he said.
 
 Back at Bhoyani, over 60-year-old Durgabai Rathore screams in local Banjara language but could convey her angst. “Get us water from anywhere. There is none this year, we could at least get it in a gap of some days during the previous summer. It’s back breaking to fetch water from 2km away,” she said.
 
 
