MUMBAI: Two men, including an auto driver, were arrested on Monday for conspiring to kill former   corporator  , 62, on Sunday night. Men in the auto ambushed Sawant and his associate near his   (E) house and stabbed him almost 20 times.

 Police said Sawant had complained in 2017 about extortion calls and threats from the prime accused, Jagdish Pawar aka Jagga, who is on the run. Sawant’s aide has identified Jagga among the attackers.
 
 Two theories have emerged as possible motives: Sawant ran a   TV network and fell victim to business rivalry; and Jagga, who knew Sawant for a long time, was irked at being dismissed as his bodyguard. Investigators suspect that Jagga may have acted at someone’s behest.
 
 Based on CCTV footage, Dahisar police nabbed auto driver Ganesh Jogdand, 33. He said he was hired by one Sohail Dodhia to tail Sawant. Dodhia, 30, too has been arrested. Both have been charged under IPC section 120 (B) for conspiracy.
 
 Jogdand told the police that he had ferried three men to the crime scene, but Dodhia, an acquaintance of the accused, was not one of them. His passengers had tailed Sawant for several hours on Sunday — first at a meeting of a redevelopment committee that Sawant presided over in Samata Nagar in Kandivli (East) and later dinner. Jogdand was paid Rs 2,000 for the job.
 
 Several teams from different suburban police stations are working on the case. Sawant, a two-time Shiv Sena corporator, was returning home on a bike after dinner at Avenue restaurant, metres from his house in Thakur Complex, with an associate, Vinod Sonawane, around 10.45pm on Sunday. As they neared Sur building, an autorickshaw came up from behind. One of the occupants kicked the bike, and Sonawane and Sawant, who was riding pillion, fell down. “Sonawane got up to chase the auto and started hurling abuses. The auto had halted and two others stepped out. They approached Sawant and stabbed him nearly 20 times. Sonawane froze, and when the assailants were leaving, he identified one of them as Jagga,” said a police official. TOI has a copy of Sonawane’s statement.
 
 In June and August 2017, Sawant had filed two written complaints at the Samta Nagar police station as well as the crime branch, saying Jagga was threatening him and was hanging around near a school in Kandivli (East) of which he was a trustee. “As Jagga is a notorious criminal from Byculla, I fear for my life,” Sawant’s complaint said.
 
 Sawant’s son Abhijeet told TOI that his father hadn’t told his family about the threats. “It is only today that we have learnt about him receiving threat calls. He was very happy yesterday. The murder was very brutal and sudden. It’s too early to say what the motive could have been but it’s certainly not personal reasons. Let the police investigate the case and find out the culprits,” said Abhijeet, who is a doctor.
 
 Jagga has past cases of extortion and assault at Byculla and Samta Nagar. He presently lives in Virar. “Jagga was recently seen in the company of a rival cable operator,” said a source. The police suspect the rival may have instigated Jagga. Crime branch officials said Sawant was trying hard to get a contract for a sprawling housing complex in Kandivli for his Shiv Shahi network.
 
 Interestingly, both Jagga and Sawant have relatives in the police force. Sawant’s cousin is an assistant commissioner in the anti-terrorism squad while Jagga’s brother is a sub-inspector. Jagga’s father was a bank employee and the family used to live in bank quarters.
 
 More than 500 people turned up at Sawant’s residence on Monday for his last rites. Shops in Thakur Complex downed shutters. His funeral at the Daulat Nagar crematorium in Borivli (East) was attended by environment minister Ramdas Kadam, MLA Prakash Surve and ex-corporator Vinod Ghoshalkar, among others.
 
 
