Nagpur: Planned 16 years ago, the second phase of  , the six-lane cable-stayed railway over bridge (RoB), is likely to be completed by March 2018. However, inordinate delay in completing the project has doubled the cost.

 Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation Limited (MSRDC) and Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Mahametro) are jointly executing the work to finish off the project over the railway station and the tracks in central Nagpur within next three months.
 
 Approved under the Integrated Road Development Project (IRDP) in 2001, the project’s phase-I comprising three-lane cable-stayed RoB was completed and opened for traffic in December 2014. Since then, the two-way traffic is maintained on phase-I only.
 
 An MSRDC official told TOI that the main work of the 200-meter cable-stayed bridge over the railway tracks under phase-II has been completed, excluding a small portion covering the last cable.
 
 “Total length of the phase-II is 606.74 meters of which the cable-stayed stretch comes to around 200 meters. MSRDC is nearing completion of the approach towards Jaistambh square. On approach towards the Central Avenue, MSRDC and Mahametro are jointly executing the work of the bridge and the approach. Three spans of 210-meter bridge (where there are no cables) will be constructed by MSRDC and the remaining five spans by Mahametro. Approach of 84 meter landing on Central Avenue will be done by Mahametro,” he said.
 
 Earlier, approaches of the two sides of Ram Jhula were to come in parallel. Mahametro had to construct Metro Rail’s via duct between the two approaches. Therefore, MSRDC had to delay its work. MSRDC could have finished off the project had the Metro Rail’s via duct not come in between the two approaches.
 
 Since the Mahametro has completed the via duct work, the remaining work is likely to gather steam.
 
 The official added approach of the phase-II had to be shifted 3-3.5 meters than earlier planned. “Now, the approach will land in parallel with that of phase-I on Central Avenue. But there will be two curves — one on the approach and other on 210-meter bridge making it serpentine,” he said.
 
 A Mahametro official expressed confidence that the work would be completed even before March.
 
 With the central government’s JNNURM scheme coming to an end, MSRDC is completing phase-II work under the IRDP. “Work order was issued to Mumbai-based Afcons Infrastructure Limited at Rs 45.94 crore. Expenditure on phase-I was Rs 55.54 crore. Estimated expenditure on the total project stands at Rs 87 crore as on date. The cost is likely to reach Rs 100 crore or more,” the MSRDC official said.
 
 MSRDC official said the revised cost has been submitted to the state government seeking sanction to the escalated cost of Ram Jhula. “Approval from the government is awaited,” he added.
 
 
