MUMBAI: The chill that has gripped the city this past week may thaw out after   on Sunday. 

 Makar Sankranti and the   that accompany it signal Uttarayan which marks the end of winter. Apart from coconut, new ears of paddy, sugarcane,sesame seeds and jaggery are used in the worship of the Sun god, the who is the giver of light and energy to our agrarian economy.
 
 The first set of festivals in the new calendar year will be celebrated over the weekend of January 13-14. Punjabis will light the holy bonfire of   on Saturday, while Maharashtrians will observe Makar Sankranti on Sunday. Kerala looks forward to the   in Sabarimala, while the Assamese enjoy  . Tamilian community plans an extended   holiday.
 
 Punjabi revelry is seldom complete without boisterous gidda, bhangra and dhol. Mukesh Dutt, who leads a Punjabi dhol band, is despatching two teams of two to four drummers to various Lohri functions in Andheri, Juhu and Vashi Saturday. On Friday, corporator Charan Singh Sapra organized a filmi-style Lohri party in Andheri (W) with ‘Sufi Sparrows’, singers Dolly and Roop Sidhu.
 
 K Arumuga Perumal, honorary secretary of the Mumbai Tamil Sangham, lives in Shastri Nagar in Dharavi, where 70% of residents are Tamilian. “We have planned a daylong Pongal programme on Sunday beginning with the distribution of sweet pongal rice, followed by the Tamil version of dahi handi. Here, young boys wear a blindfold and attempt to break an overhanging pot,” laughed Perumal. "Women will hold a haldi-kumkum ceremony and the day will end with children enacting plays and singing."
 
 Assam Association in Navi Mumbai plans a Bhogali Bihu get-together in Goregaon on January 21, said president Binod Mudiar. “This is that time of year when the agrarian community is joyful and can celebrate because the new harvest has brought bounty and prosperity into an otherwise impoverished existence,” he said. “It’s usually difficult to sustain the household from a seasonal profession. Bhogali means abundance and Bhogali Bihu is an occasion that brings plenty of enjoyment.”
 
 
