BARANAGAR: CPM's North 24 Parganas brigade under its outgoing secretary Gautam Deb pilloried the party's central committee decision against having any understanding with  . The district conference at Baranagar is one in the entire state that upheld the Bengal   line giving a major boost to the Sitaram Yechury faction two months before the party congress. Only four among the 110 speakers in the conference came in support of the CC decision. 

 An ailing Deb, a central committee member, passed on the baton to his loyalist from Basirhat, Mrinal Chakrabarty. Low-profile Chakrabarty's name had been doing the rounds in party circles though many among the delegates held that Chakrabarty had limited influence in party ranks beyond the Basirhat zone. The outgoing district secretariat proposed his name with an understanding that the new leadership will find out a new secretary once North 24 Parganas is bifurcated into two districts as announced by chief minister Mamata Banerjee.
 
 Like in the party's South 24 Parganas and Kolkata contingents, some of the old guards like former MP Tarit Topdar, former ministers Rekha Goswami and Ranjit Kundu, former Left Front chief whip in the Assembly Rabin Mandal, district secretariat members Ranjit Mitra, Dulal Chakrabarty and Nandadulal Chakrabarty took leave from the newly formed 70-member district committee that leaves room for three co-options. The veterans will remain as special invitees in the new district committee.
 
 There was high drama at the conference when district secretariat member and Kamarhati MLA Manas Mukherjee withdrew his name from the district panel. According to insiders, Mukherjee had been pressing for inclusion of some more of his loyalists in the new district committee. And he was against former district youth leader Jhantu Mazumdar. Mukherjee even had a spat with Gautam Deb in the last district committee meeting. He, however, changed his mind after being insisted upon by CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra and Gautam Deb to continue in the committee. Some of the Mukherjee loyalists were getting ready for a contest for the new committee, but Biman Bose and Mishra ensured that there is no repeat of the Kolkata episode.
 
 CPM liberals conceded defeat in a night-long vote, a fortnight after the political line of having an understanding with Congress was voted out in the central committee meeting. Party hardliners pressed for the voting despite appeals from veterans. There was voting for the post of the district secretary in which Kallol Mazumdar was elected, defeating Manab Mukherjee.
 
 
