MUMBAI: On the eve of Inter- national Women’s Day, the general administration department ( ) led by chief minister Devendra   has drafted a policy to consider giving women officers and employees plum assignments.

 Under the official order is- sued by the GAD, all additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries, secretaries and administrative heads of departments have been asked to consider appointment of women officers and employees on executive posts.
 
 Some women officers and employees had approached the government, saying despite their competency, integrity and efficiency, they were not considered for appointment to executive posts and given non-executive postings. “There are no rules for appointment on executive or non-executive posts, however, guidelines have been prescribed on reinstatement of suspended employees or employees facing departmental probe. By and large, such employees are appointed on non-executive posts,” said a bureaucrat.
 
 The bureaucrat said now the GAD has asked all administrative heads to consider appointment of women officers and employees on executive posts, depending on “administrative convenience”.
 
 Another bureaucrat said no doubt Maharashtra was the first state to bring in a comprehensive policy for women and giving them reservation in the local self government bodies, but no serious thought was given when it came to considering their appointment to key assignments. More than a decade ago, a delegation of women IAS officers had called on then chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh to consider their plea for selecting women IAS officers as chief secretary, BMC chief and Mumbai police chief. Deshmukh had then assured them that their demand would be considered, but women IAS officers have not been was considered for the key Mumbai postings in subsequent years. It will be a testing time for Fadnavis following the retirement of chief secretary Sumit Mullick on April 30.
 
  While he has already been selected for appointment as chief information commissioner, it remains to be seen if  , the senior- most IAS officer gets an opportunity to lead the bureaucracy.   is followed by Sudhir Shrivastava, D K Jain, U P S Madan, Sanjeevanee Kutty and Sunil Porwal, all from the 1983 batch. “It’s the CM’s prerogative. There is no rule to appoint a chief secretary on the basis or his or her seniority,” he said.
 
