Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is gearing up to set up 40 Anna Canteens in Vizag city.

 Modelled along the lines of the Amma Canteens of Tamil Nadu, the subsidised   system is expected to be a blessing for small-time employees, daily wage workers and the lower middle class, and will be of particular help for the floating population in the city who otherwise end up paying anywhere between Rs 50 and Rs 100 per meal even at small restaurants.
 
 A team of officials from Andhra Pradesh, including GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan, had earlier visited Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Haryana and Delhi to understand the functioning and operation of the subsidised canteens there before setting up Anna Canteens in Andhra Pradesh.
 
 The team has observed that the standard menu and price on an average is Rs 5 for breakfast, and Rs 10 for lunch and dinner. As per their report, the total cost for providing a meal for three times a day works out to Rs 57. 
 
 While the customer pays Rs 25, the rest is borne by the state government.
 
 The Director of Municipal Administration had recently submitted proposals for establishment of 203 Anna Canteens in Andhra Pradesh. According to the proposals, Rs 38 lakh will be provided to construct a canteen and Rs 79 lakh will be spent on construction of the kitchen.
 
 A senior GVMC official said the GVMC had earlier carried out a survey in the city to identify suitable locations for these canteens. 
 
 “However, the number of canteens has now increased to 40 from the initially expected 15-25 canteens. Each zone in the city will get a minimum of three to four canteens,” the official explained.
 
 “Priority will be given to those areas with floating population such as the RTC Complex, railway station, industrial areas, Jagadamba Junction and others,” said the official.
 
 Other than launching the only Anna Canteen in Velagapudi about a year and half ago on a pilot basis, the proposal of extending it to all parts of the state has been going at a snail’s pace even after the state Cabinet’s approval back in 2014 itself. It is estimated that about 500-800 people are taking meals at the Anna Canteen in Velagapudi.
 
 The Amma Canteens in Tamil Nadu as well as the Annapurna Canteens in Hyderabad had become an instant success. According to the observers, the populist scheme did its bit in gaining vote share for the respective governments in the recent elections.
 
 The civic corporation will soon issue tenders, inviting vendors for procurement of canteen equipment and catering services.
 
 
