BENGALURU: One was jailed on February 20 on the charge of assaulting a man at a UB City restaurant. Another, who was arrested for stabbing Lokayukta P  , entered the Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara, 15 days later on March 7.

 Weeks after that, neither Mohammed Haris Nalapad nor Tejraj Sharma has spoken with each other even once at the jail. While Nalapad has had a battery of attorneys fighting for his bail, Sharma has none.
 
  and backgrounds, the two are, however, united by the need to find calmness. According to prison sources, Nalapad has started attending yoga classes, while Sharma has become a regular at the prison library, where he is found glued to spiritual books.
 
 “Both Nalapad and Sharma have come from different backgrounds. Sharma has adjusted himself to the new life. But for Nalapad, spending time behind the bars, is still difficult,” a source said.
 
 Last week, Nalapad complained of acute headache and uneasiness. He has since been taking yoga classes based on the doctors’ advice. “The rejection of his bail plea has added to his anxiety,” the source added.
 
 They pointed out that the chances of Sharma getting bail is bleak with no lawyer or even family members having come to visit him or filed an application so far. Every time he is let out of the barrack, he’s seen reading spiritual books in the library. “Convicts, who have learnt yoga, train others. Classes on yoga, music, and other cultural activities are held at A-barrack. Nalapad finds it difficult to mingle with other convicts and undertrials,” sources said, adding that one question that irks him the most is when others ask ‘yava case guru? (why are you serving time?).
 
 Nalapad and six others were arrested for allegedly attacking 24-year-old L Vidvat inside a restaurant at UB City on the night of February 17. All the accused were booked under various criminal charges, including attempt to murder. 
 
 Sharma, on the other hand, had acted alone—entering the Lokayukta’s office with a hidden knife, and was arrested while trying to escape.
 
 
