BHOPAL: Development of 19 stormwater drains and interlinking of   system in the city have hit a roadblock. The latest glitch is on account of a fresh tender.

 With the expansion of the city and inclusion of more areas in municipal limits plus rising population made the existing sewage system inadequate. A substantial amount of money was spent over last two decades, 90% of the city still lacks proper drainage network. 
 
 
  
 
 The main drains include Patra, Mandi and Hataikheda Jatkhedi stormwater and sewage drains spread across   to  . The same areas faced water inundation during monsoon in 2016. The Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) had submitted the proposal to the state government’s technical committee for the first time in 2003.
 
 “The tender exceeded schedule of requirement (exceeded maximum price). Now, it has been referred to state technical committee for approval,” said a BMC official.
 
 Going by BMC estimates, there are 723 drains across Bhopal and most get clogged when it rains heavy. “Without adequate sewage and stormwater drain infrastructure, the city will have to do with piecemeal measures. The BMC is relying on specialised sewer cleaning machines with a capacity to pump out 75 gallons per minute,” said Sudhir Sharma, an urban planner.
 
 When the project was first envisaged in 2003, it was pegged at Rs 30 crore and later revised to Rs 42 crore. As per an assessment report submitted to the Union government programme Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), Rs 550 crore is needed get sewage and stormwater drainage system. 
 
 The unprecedented flooding in Bhopal in 2016 jolted the civic body. Afterwards, the BMC after the stocktaking estimated 1,012 colonies in Bhopal had internal sewage network without an outlet. Many of these colonies are built on drains or natural outlet . Last year, the Union government sanctioned about Rs 100 crore for development of new sewage system. A full network would cost about Rs 2,000 crore and is expected to take another three years to implement.
 
 However, utilisation of funds for comprehensive sewage and stormwater drain system is still pending. The BMC estimates the proposal would be implemented in two years.
 
 The plan proposes to create underground tunnels for drainage to flow. The stormwater and sewage system length would be around 500 km, covering most parts of the city, the drainage system would be large enough that even a mini-bus could pass through it. The system also entailed water processing plants at various points. In last two decades, the BMC has spent around Rs 700 crore on schemes like Bhoj wetland project, a fairly large sum any which way you look at it. 
 
 
 
