Chandigarh: The cities, which topped the list in the annual survey of India’s city systems (ASICS), 2017, have done much better than Chandigarh when it comes to providing good quality of governance. The civic bodies of the top five cities in the survey – Pune, Kolkata, Thiruvananthapuram, Bhubaneswar and Surat – have achieved high ratings in   generation, Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project implementation, transparency, capital expenditure and autonomy in budget allocation.

 Chandigarh, on the other hand, has bagged poor ratings in these parameters in the survey and finished at number 22 among 23 cities. The survey was conducted by Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy, a Bengaluru-based non-profit institution.
 
 Since revenue generation and proper utilization of budget remained the major challenges for the UT MC, they could not do much in 2017. The civic body even approached the central government, too, several times in the past couple of years on this matter, but the central government clearly asked them to stop asking for more money and start taking steps to generate their own revenue.
 
 Anil Nair, head, advocacy, Janaagraha while speaking to TOI said, “The cities, which topped the survey, have done a remarkable job in revenue generation. These cities are far better than Chandigarh when it comes to ensuring proper expenditure of the capital expenditure.”
 
 According to Nair, the civic bodies of other cities have more power in decision-making processes compared to Chandigarh, which went against the city.
 
 “Moreover, another thing, which has been witnessed in the survey, is that both Chandigarh mayor and commissioner are powerless and don’t possess the optimum required power to run the urban local body in a better way. Within one-year mayor term in Chandigarh, low representation of women has also cropped up significantly in the survey,” he said.
 
 The public disclosure in the local body of Chandigarh has also been found ‘poor’. “It mainly refers to the audited financial statement on quarterly basis, audited financial statement on annual basis, service-level benchmarks, details of plans, income and budget etc. All these should be in the public domain in a proper manner, where city lacks”, Nair added.
 
 Cities like Pune and Bhubaneswar bagged high ratings because they are some of the few cities to have made internal audit reports online.
 
 Significantly, Chandigarh MC was not carrying proper record of the residential tax payers. In fact, the residents who had paid the taxes, again received tax notices. Now, MC has hired an agency to maintain proper record of both residential and commercial tax payers as well as getting the exact details of the commercial establishments and residential areas, falling in the tax ambit.
 
 The top cities also fetched good marks when it came to meeting the deadlines in spending the annual budget on development works.
 
 Planning on a micro level, mainly preparing the neighbourhood plan of each municipal ward or area has also been turned out poor in the survey for Chandigarh. Moreover, since there is no provision for a state spatial planning board, which is mandated with planning policies and reforms for the state, the city has scored zero mark in this segment too. 
 
 
