BHOPAL/INDORE:   — aka Swami Namdev Tyagi — lost no time in showing off his MoS status on his car. And he dumped his proposed ‘Narmada Ghotala Yatra’ against the state government just as quickly on Wednesday.

 The godman, who claims to have a computer-like brain, got his moniker because he was apparently among the first religious leaders to use computers in the early nineties. For the last few months, he was vocal about alleged “irregularities” in the government-backed Narmada Sewa Yatra’, where more than 6 crore saplings were planted along the banks of the holy river last year.
 
 Now that he and four other godmen — Bhayyu Maharaj, Pandit Yogendra Mahant, Narmadanand Maharaj and Hariharanand Maharaj — have been included in the committee set up for Narmada river conservation, and given MoS status, Computer Baba hit the delete button on his protest.
 
 Enamoured by the prestige of the MoS tag and government facilities that are likely to be added to his protocol, the Baba was seen announcing his new status when he arrived in Bhopal to express his gratitude towards the government. A piece of paper stuck to his car’s windshield proclaimed: ‘Mahamandaleswar Computer Baba, Rajya Mantri Darja Prapt’.
 
 He thanked chief minister   for the honour, and said: “We have cancelled the (Narmada Ghotala Yatra) campaign because the state government has fulfilled our demand to form a committee of saints and seers for the protection of River Narmada. Now, we can work with dedication and enthusiasm to create more awareness and save the holy river.”
 
 Bombarded with questions, he stood his ground. Asked if there was any “deal” with the government, Baba said: “I never pressurised the government in the name of any ‘ghotala’, nor demanded any status. It was the CM who called and honoured us. Now, there is no need to take out the yatra when the government has accepted our demands. We will work for the conservation of Narmada and coordinate with officials to take action and encourage public awareness for environment conservation. This is not a political honour but recognition for my service to society and religion.”
 
 On Congress leader Digvijaya Singh’s Narmada Parikrama, where the 71-year-old is walking 3,400km along the river, Computer Baba said it was a “political march for his own ambition”, and different from the Shivraj-led Narmada Sewa Yatra that was “public participation to save the river”.
 
 Computer Baba had earlier announced a ‘Narmada Ghotala Rath Yatra’ along with Pandit Yogendra Mahant in every district of MP from April 1 to May 15 to “expose the scam in planting saplings on the banks of Narmada” and to demand a ban on illegal sand mining. Publicity material for the campaign had been circulated widely on social media. On Wednesday, Mahant said that the cause of river conservation would continue with his new responsibility.
 
 A veteran Congressman, who has won municipal elections in Indore, Mahant is a close follower of Congress stalwart Digvijaya Singh and was seen marching with him during his Narmada Parikrama. Mahant has repeatedly criticized the state government on illegal sand mining and never tires of alleging officials’ connivance with sand mafia.
 
 On Wednesday, he spoke in a mellowed tone: “We thank the government on behalf of the saints for showing trust in us. The question of a campaign against   does not arise as we will work together with the government for conservation and awareness.MP is the only government that has shown keen interest in saving the state’s lifeline and after this honour, we will try our best to work for the welfare of society.”
 
 Congress was scathing on the chief minister and his government.
 
 “This seem to be a planned move to dump complaints raised against irregularities during the government-sponsored Narmada Sewa Yatra. We suggest that the power-stripped MLAs of Indore start a campaign against their own government to get coveted status of MoS,” said Congress state spokesperson K K Mishra.
 
 
