KOLKATA: Donald Trump’s insistence on backing a plan to arm teachers in US schools despite the lack of evidence showing this would end school shootings has come under criticism from Indian Americans. They have joined the protests registered by America’s largest teachers’ unions, school security guards and military veterans.

 Trump, however, remains unfazed. “I want my schools protected just like I want my banks protected,” Trump is reported to have said in a meeting about school safety at the White House. He even suggested offering bonuses to teachers who are trained to carry concealed weapons.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 To this, the reactions from the Indian diaspora have ranged from calling the proposal childish to absurd. Shiladitya Sen, who is currently an instructional specialist at Montclair State University and has been a former visiting lecturer at  , said, “It’s horribly misguided, for multiple reasons. It places the onus on the individual teacher, many of whom are already underpaid and overworked, instead of enacting genuine systemic change. Having an armed person in every classroom in the USA ensures that fatal accidents will regularly happen. It caters completely to the gun lobby, and is just one more example of the childishly inane concept of ‘good guy with gun beats bad guy with gun’.” Sen clarified that he isn’t “uncomfortable” with guns. “It’s simply that this is a ghastly idea and would cause far more damage than it would prevent,” he said.
 
 “Bizarre” is how Suman Ghosh, professor in economics at Florida Atlantic University, chooses to define Trump’s suggestion. “A university has a sanctity of its own. I can’t imagine walking on campus with concealed weapons. This proposal is against my basic ideology,” Ghosh said.
 
 Dr  , who is a human rights activist and labour educator in America, put up a Facebook post saying: “Trump now wants armed school teachers. American powers were a global danger. Now, it’s a domestic N-bomb.” Banerjee believes that the   (NRA) and   want to openly arm the conservative whites. They fund right wing politicians and a section of the media. “Far right media and talk shows are openly promoting this idea of arming school teachers. This is sheer barbarism,” said New York-based Banerjee.
 
 Orlando-based finance professional Soumitra De described Trump’s suggestion as a “ridiculous” concept. “Teachers are required to teach, not provide campus security. It’s much safer to do a thorough background check. Like they do in Japan, it is safer to make the process of acquiring guns longer. The mental evaluation is done by hospitals to ensure that those challenged don’t have access to guns,” De said.
 
 According to Boston-based scientist Alokesh Duttaroy, it is “sickening” that the NRA and greater American conservative pro-gun lobby have not changed a bit. “The only hope and difference this time are that the students, the young people, are questioning about this staggering gun violence. Maybe they can bring some sanity into this insane landscape,” Duttaroy said.
 
 Los Angeles-based scientist Bedabrata Pain’s son is a student at the Bennington College, Vermont. Though the worried parent dismissed Trump’s suggestion as “beyond idiocy”, he refused to take a pro-gun or anti-gun control stand. That’s because neither “target” the “source of the violence” in American society. “The fountainhead of violence is the American state itself – be it in the form of global military intervention or naked police brutality. Without changing the culture of resorting to violence or holding the authorities accountable, safety and security on campus or otherwise will always elude us,” Pain said.
 
