The temperature was a scorching 33 degree Celsius, but that didn’t deter women from across the State and beyond to throng the capital city on Friday, to offer Pongala to their beloved  , as they do every year. Chants of Amme narayana… Devi narayana… Lekshmi narayana… Bhadre narayana resounded in the air as the largest congregation of women in the world cooked Pongala payasam for the goddess. 

 The Pongala marks the 10th day of the annual festival of the Attukal Bhagavathy Temple. The devotees performed the ritual by lighting their makeshift brick stoves from the flame passed from the pandara aduppu set in front of temple, and the entire city turned cloudy with the fumes from the hearths.
 
 The Pongala payasam is made of rice cooked in jaggery with ghee and a handful of coconut, garnished with raisins and cashewnuts. One could also get the heady aroma of manda puttu — steamed balls made of rice powder and green dal powder blended with coconut and jiggery — and theralli, a mixture of rice powder and jaggery steamed in aromatic vayana leaves.
 The ritual was observed by several lakhs of devotees spread across the length and breadth of the city but was most concentrated within a radius of three kilometres of the Attukal Temple.
 
 Among the first-timers we spotted Olympian and veteran sportsperson, P T Usha, who conducted the ritual inside the temple premises. “It is a dream come true for me. I had been wanting to offer Pongala for long but couldn’t do so owing to several difficulties. I reached Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday evening and performed Pongala with my family including my sisters and their daughters. I’m glad I could do it inside the temple premises itself and I thank the temple authorities for that,” says Usha.
 
 Another debutant was transgender poet and activist  . She performed the Pongala at Pettah with Renju Rejimar, celebrity make-up artiste, and transgender activists Soorya, Sreemayi, Seema, Karthika and Kavya. “I am very excited about the Pongala but am not sure of how to perform it. My friend   has been performing it for the past three years and is helping me. I offer Pongala to seek blessings of Attukal Amma to make my relationship turn into a marriage and for our community to prosper,” says Vijayaraja Mallika. Renju shares her views, and commented that the Pongala is an offering to appease the goddess. “I wish to become a mother. I have prayed to Attukal Amma to bless me with my own baby. I am on the look-out for hospitals which will help me become a mother. I want to experience the pain of childbirth,” adds Renju.
 
 Among the usual faces were actresses Chippy, Krishna Prabha, Jalaja, TT Usha and singer Rajalekshmi. The women performed the Pongala near to the temple. “I am performing the ritual near the temple this time. I feel blessed to offer it near the Devi’s sannidhi. I pray that she blesses my family and also others with good health and prosperity throughout the year,” says Jalaja.
 
 Meanwhile, the inmates of the Women Prison and Correctional Home Thiruvananthapuram at Attukulangara also performed the Pongala for the seventh consecutive year, says jail superintendant OV Valli. “This year, four inmates are performing the Pongala, representing the 60 in our jail. The jail officials are also offering Pongala this year.” 
 Pongala nivedyam was held at 2.30 pm. With the kuruthi tharpanam on Saturday, the annual fete will come to a conclusion.
 
