NEW DELHI: Asaram was on Wednesday sentenced to life imprisonment till death 
  studying at his ashram in August 2013. The disgraced "godman" was arrested in Indore on September 1, 2013 and has been lodged at the Jodhpur Central Jail ever since. While reading out the judgement, the judge said “In my humble opinion, Asaram not only broke the faith of the complainant but also spoiled the image of saints among common men.” 
 
 
 Rape, murder and money laundering are in fact some of the charges against a bunch of India's powerful 'gurus' who have political clout, wealth and a following of many thousands. With the Asaram verdict, the issue of sexual offences and other crimes by these so-called spiritual leaders is in the spotlight once again. We take a look at some of these infamous  .
 
 
 
 Adhyatmik Vishwa Vidyalaya - the ashram run by him in Delhi’s Vijay Vihar near Rohini and other places
 
 
  Accused in multiple cases of sexual assault and rape, as well as illegal confinement
 
 
  Absconding
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Founder Satlok Ashram and a leader of Kabir Panth. He enjoys a following in Haryana
 
 
 Murder. Skipped court summons 43 times between 2010 and 2014. His thousands of supporters who wielded lathis, sticks and firearms prevented the police from arresting him. The cops were finally able to enter his Hisar ashram successfully on November 19. 2014 when he was arrested. Bodies of five women and a baby were found inside
 
 
  In jail. Faces charges in at least six other cases
 
  
  
 
 
 
 A self-styled godman and chief of the Dera Sacha Sauda
 
 
  Convicted of raping two disciples
 
 
  In August 2017, a CBI court sentenced him to 20 years in prison and fined him Rs 30 lakh. 
  and arson in Haryana where 30 people were killed and over 250 were injured after which curfew was imposed at several places
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Runs Dhyanapeeta Charitable Trust in Bidadi, near Bengaluru. In 2010, local channels aired footage of the swami in a compromising position with a Tamil actress. The same year, a former follower filed a complaint of sexual harassment
 
 
  Booked for rape and indulging in unnatural sex
 
 
  Was in jail for 52 days in April 2010 before getting bail
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 Shreemurath Dwivedi started as a security guard at a five-star hotel in Delhi’s Nehru Place in 1988 before reinventing himself as Bhimanand
 
 
  Arrested in 2010 for running a high-profile sex racket
 
 
  In jail
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Real name is Vikas Joshi. He was an influential guru in the Jabalpur area
 
 
  Was arrested in 2006 in connection with the sexual abuse of girls and making obscene films
 
 
  Was convicted by a Jabalpur fast track court in 2010 and is currently in jail
 
  
  
 
 
 
