CHANDIGARH: All the four ATM kiosks, situated opposite to the entrance of Chandigarh railway station, have been lying sealed for over six months posing difficulties for the passengers who cannot use them during emergencies. The four bank   located in the vicinity are Dena Bank, Union Bank, UCO Bank and SBI. 

 The ATM kiosks, that were once working have been rendered useless, after the bank authorities concerning all the four banks allegedly failed to clear the rent dues pending with the railway station to the tune of lakhs. According to a railway official, dues from some of the ATMs have been pending since over two years.
 
 Meanwhile, the lack of ATM at a place of heavy tourist concentration has severely affected the travelling experience of tourists, who cannot withdraw money at times of emergency. “These ATMs have been sealed by the railway authorities pertaining to some dispute with banks. But the passengers travelling from this station are facing its brunt,” said Ravi Shankar, the guard at the Dena Bank ATM outlet. 
 
 According to Shankar, none of the other banks have cash left in the machines, except Dena Bank, which requires constant monitoring. “The problem is huge. Over 400-500 passengers enter or exit the station gates all day and night, on an average everyday. About 200-300 of them expect to come and use the ATMs here and I get tired of telling them that the ATMs are not working. It is so inconvenient,” added Shankar. 
 
 “Which railway station does not have an ATM? Places like this needs to have some basic facilities like this. It’s common sense. Think about passengers deboarding the trains late at night. What if they need money to eat something from the station or nearby? What will they do? said  , a passenger travelling from Ambala.
 
 According to sources,   was sealed over 7 months ago, followed by SBI and others. The nearest ATMs are located almost a kilometre away in   Market. The auto-wallahs and rickshaw-pullers have hence started charging exhorbitantly to drop passengers over there. Even the army officers deployed for security do not get money all day.
 
 “Many times, the passengers need money with a lower denomination to pay to the auto-wallahs and rickshaw pullers. ATMs are usually the easiest way to do that, but they can’t anymore,” said Irshad, a rickshaw puller. 
 
 Public relation officer at Chandigarh Railway Station Praveen Dwivedi said, “They have been sealed because the banks have failed to clear their dues pending with the railway station. It is their fault that they are not taking care of their own customers, not ours. The dues are in lakhs and have remained unpaid for over two years. Several notices were sent to the bank authorities before sealing the ATM outlets.” When asked whether Chandigarh Railway Station is arranging for new ATM kiosks in the meantime, she said, “That proposal is under consideration, but nothing has happened so far in that regard.” 
 
 Immediate action required
 
 I had not noticed that the ATMs here don’t work. I had aonly Rs 500 note and wanted to withdraw Rs 100 note to eat something from the tiny shops here. However, I couldn’t withdraw do so due to the lack of ATMs
 
  (32) | Passenger 
 
 I have not faced any emergency so far. But, it can happen any day. These ATMs should be fixed at the earliest. The railway station should think about it
 
 Ashu Shrivastav (24) | Passenger
 
 
