AHMEDABAD: In India, an estimated 1.59 lakh workers are exposed to silica dust and are likely to suffer from silicosis. As the number of such cases increases, it has caught the public attention. 

 These people work in the unorganized sector or in micro and small enterprises like stone crushing, cement, slate-pencil manufacturing, agate, sand blasting units, foundries and glass units. 
 
 On Wednesday,   experts, factory and industrial safety regulators and labour representatives gathered at the National Institute of Occupational Health in the city for a three-day workshop to discuss pressing occupational health issues.
 
 Dagmar Walter, regional director of the International Labour Organisation ( ), said, “Many who work in micro and small enterprises and rural agriculture sectors are women who are exposed to poor working environments. They have special needs.”
 
 She also noticed how during a recent exercise to develop a national   and health profile for India, instances of occupational diseases were under-reported by states. 
 
 “In India, I felt there is a dire need for establishing proactive safety and health committees, at the state and national levels. These committees will integrate representatives from welfare groups, health, industrial hygiene and policy makers to bring occupational health to the fore,” Walter said.
 
 From silicosis, to workers’ exposure to pesticides and heavy metals, to the need for periodic and transparent medical examination of workers to ergonomics for head-load labourers, experts said there is a pressing need for awareness among workers to demand safer working environments, rather than just safety gear. 
 
 The deputy director general of the Directorate General Factory Advice Service and Labour Institutes (DGFASLI), Dr S K Haldar, explained how a recent survey of 83 workers and exposed to silica dust at manual and mechanized units found 14.4% had silicosis. 
 
 The DG of DGFASLI, Dr Avneesh Singh, explained to TOI that he was aware of how safety practices were ignored in the chemical and chemical-derivatives manufacturing industry. “Our officers noticed how at a few units in Gujarat hazardous chemical products were stored in the basement. These are sitting bombs. A robust and actionable industrial safety policy and a transparent process for maintaining factory inventory lists is a must ensuring safer working environments,” said Singh.
 
 
