The   are one of the highest civilian honours of India. It's main aim is to acknowledge and award worthy achievements in any area of public service.

 They were instituted by the Indian Government in 1954 along with the Bharat Ratna. They had three divisions, Pahela Varg, Dusra Varg and Tisra Varg. The names were changed to Padma Vibhushan,   and   on 8th January, 1955. Knowing their original names helps in realising the hierarchy.   is the highest honour one can recieve, followed by the Padma Bhushan and then Padma Shri.
 
 The honour is awarded to anyone who has contributed something significant or exceptional in various fields. Only Government servants including those working with PSUs are exempted from this. The various fields, as listed in the official Padma Awards website are-
 
 Art (includes Music, Painting, Sculpture, Photography, Cinema, Theatre etc.)
 
 Social work (includes social service, charitable service, contribution in community projects etc.)
 
 Public Affairs (includes Law, Public Life, Politics etc.)
 
 Science & Engineering (includes Space Engineering, Nuclear Science, Information Technology, Research & Development in Science & its allied subjects etc.)
 
 Trade & Industry (includes Banking, Economic Activities, Management, Promotion of Tourism, Business etc.)
 
 Medicine (includes medical research, distinction/specialization in Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Sidhha, Allopathy, Naturopathy etc.)
 
 Literature & Education (includes Journalism, Teaching, Book composing, Literature, Poetry, Promotion of education, Promotion of literacy, Education Reforms etc.)
 
 Civil Service (includes distinction/excellence in administration etc. by Government Servants)
 
 Sports (includes popular Sports, Athletics, Adventure, Mountaineering, promotion of sports, Yoga etc.)
 
 Others (fields not covered above and may include propagation of Indian Culture, protection of Human Rights, Wild Life protection/conservation etc.)
 
 
 The nomination process is open to the public and one can even nominate themselves. The nominations are examined and the winners are chosen by the Padma Awards Committee. The comittee is headed by the Cabinet Secretary and includes Home Secretary, Secretary to the President and four to six eminent persons as members. They go through all the nominations and after selecting the best, send them to the Prime Minister and President.
 
 The winners are announced on 26th January, India's Republic Day, and the awards are presented to the winners in a special ceremony, usually in the month of March/ April by the President of India.The winners are awarded a Sanad (certificate) signed by the President and a medallion.
 
 Except for the years 1978, 1979 and the years from 1993 to 1997, there were awards every year.
 
 This year there were 85 Padma award winners. Three Padma Vibhushan winners, nine Padma Bhushan winners and seventy three Padma Shri winners.
 
 Also this year the decision was taken to award a Padma Shri to one person from each country of The Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to strengthen India’s ties with them. This decision was recently announced by Raveesh Kumar, spokesperson for the Ministry of External Affairs on twitter.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Besides the ASEAN, one person each from Russia, United States of America, Saudi Arabia, Japan, Tajikistan and Nepal were awarded Padma Shri awards.
 
 It seems like it was a good year for arts as most of the winners of the Padma Vibhushan and Padma Bhushan were in the Arts and Literature & Education categories.
