JAIPUR: The soaring fuel prices have forced the middle and lower-income level families to alter their household budget. Families are spending more than the budget meant for fuel. The price of   in Jaipur touched an all-time high of Rs 79.62 per litre on Tuesday. Since the past three months the price has been in 70s. It has forced the citizens to downgrade their mode of transport from cars to two-wheelers. Those who cannot afford two-wheelers have shifted to civic transport like city buses.

 Singh family living in C-Scheme is changing their lifestyle due to overall hike in the fuel and its impact on other goods. “The hike has overshot our fuel budget by 30%. I cannot stop going to school by my car but what I am doing is limiting the use of car after my school. I walk or use my bike for my daily work in my locality or in the nearby areas. I am seriously thinking of car-pooling for work and planning to propose the idea to my colleagues,” said  , a teacher at an elite school in Bhankrota. Her budget for fuel is Rs 5,000 which includes her daily travel to   and local leisure trips within the city.
 
 Businessman   has shifted his mode of transport from his Maruti Alto (diesel) to his 10-year-old bike, since last week. The soaring price of fuel has left him spending Rs 1,000-1,200 per month extra on fuel from the past four months. “My budget on fuel was a maximum of Rs 2,500. Since the price has shown a steep rise it has touched above Rs 3,500 in the last four months. I have given up now and decided to drive bike for at least 10 days in a month to control my budget,” said Sharma.
 
 Sushil Kumar Gupta, tax assistant in Commercial Taxation Department, instead of buying items on a daily basis is purchasing them for a week at a time. “A lot can be saved by making small changes like turning off the car and AC at traffic lights or while waiting for someone,” said Gupta.
 
 The rise is fuel price forcing people to change their lifestyles is not the end. The worst is yet to come. TOI spoke to vegetable retailers who confirmed that price of vegetables is likely to increase in the coming days. “The fuel price has put additional pressure on us to increase the prices. It is eating away our profits and we are likely to increase the price by 10%-20% in the coming days,” said Ram Kishan, a vegetable vendor
 
 
