PATIALA: After failing to provide toilets to individuals under   (IHHL) Scheme, the   municipal corporation (MC) has now planned to come up with 13 public toilets in the city. The toilets will be installed under the Open Defecation Free (ODF) mission.

 The MC has already declared the toilets at around 16 petrol pumps, which fall under the MC area, as public toilets. Besides this, the toilets available at government offices and three government-run hospitals have also been declared as public toilets, though hardly any effort has been made to make residents aware about it.
 
 
 “There are a total of 68 public toilets including the existing ones in the city’s Government Rajindra Hospital, Mata Kaushalya Hospital, and government-run TB hospital,” said chief sanitary inspector Bhagwan.
 
 In the survey conducted by the MC last year around 719 houses were identified that could not be covered under the IHHL scheme. Under IHHL scheme the Centre and state government share the expenses on a ratio of 60:40 to construct toilet in every household. Each beneficiary is provided an amount of Rs 5,333 in two instalments. Out of these 719 beneficiaries that failed to get the benefit of the scheme, around 165 houses got toilets constructed in their houses on their own. However, MC provided them the fixed money under the IHHL scheme.
 
 Similarly, the MC has decided to construct public toilets in the slum areas, which were not covered under the IHHL scheme. There are 19 slum areas identified in Patiala city under the precincts of the corporation. 11 slum areas including Taffajalpura, Madrassi Jhuggian (cottages), Rajpura colony, Sikligar Basti, Rodi Kutt near Lakkadmandi, Bhim Colony and others were lacking the facility of public toilets.
 
 MC decided to come up with the public toilets in the slums accordance to the population strength of the areas. As per the government rules, there should be 35 males per one toilet and 25 females per one toilet as minimum criteria to decide over the construction of public toilets in the slum area.
 
 “An amount of Rs 98,000 per seat will be sanctioned by the Central government. The survey and land identification for installation of public for community toilets have been completed,” said sanitary inspector  , who is looking into the project of community toilets.
 
 In 2016, the Patiala MC received a grant of Rs 16 lakh from Central government under   to create awareness among the masses about the ODF mission. The officials, however, claim that this fund was used in creating awareness with the help of advertisement. This year no grants have been received from the central government for this purpose. The entire expenses for 13 public toilets and 100 urinals will be taken care of by the state government. Besides this, some single seats would be installed in the city. Each urinal cost Rs 35,000 while a single seat toilet would cost Rs 25,000 each.
 
