MARGAO: Unified in crisis, they speak the same language, but in different tones. MLAs representing constituencies from the mining belt, who earlier wanted mining to continue unabated despite the Supreme Court-imposed shutdown, are now left fervently hoping that the government takes immediate steps towards resumption of mining, whichever way it deems fit. 

 Sanvordem MLA  , who earlier favoured the auction route, now feels that the government should explore both options — auctioning of mining leases and running of the mines by the government through a corporation. “Both options will give handsome revenue to the state government,” Pauskar said, even as he dismissed the demand made by Curchorem MLA   for extension of tenure of the existing 88 mining leases.
 
 Stating that the Centre is not favourable to the idea of extending mining leases, he said Union minister Nitin   made this clear to them when they last met him. “He told us clearly that the Centre would go by the letter and spirit of the   judgement, and, therefore, extension of mining leases was not possible,” Pauskar said.
 
 The   was confident that, once the government took a decision, mining would resume soon. “The government can form a corporation and ask the same mine owners to operate the leases in government possession. The rest of the mines, the government can explore the auction route,” he said.
 
 Speaker and   MLA Pramod Sawant, however, was disinclined to the idea of a government-run corporation. “I don’t think it is a prudent solution. But, we are open to any alternatives that come up during our discussion with Gadkari that are in the interest of Goan people, not mine owners. We have no objections to auctioning. If a successful bidder takes over the leases and employs all the existing manpower, so be it. What’s the harm in that? Irrespective of the means adopted, the outcome should be resumption of mining at the earliest, as people’s livelihoods are at stake,” Sawant told TOI. 
 
 Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral, who has been consistent in his stand against auctioning as “the process would consume a very long time”, said the MMDR Act doesn’t mandate auctioning as the only method of allocation. “The existing 89 leases should be allowed to operate, and concurrently the government should initiate the process of auctioning the existing 250-300 leases. Later, the government auction the current leases in operation, say in 2027, when they are due for renewal,”   had told TOI earlier. 
 
 
