JAIPUR : RT-91 famous as   got a bigger home, spread across 82 square km, on Saturday. The forest department at   (MHNP) opened the gate of enclosure to release the tiger into wild. 

 The tiger, which was recently relocated from in Ramgargh Sanctuary ( ), close to  , was kept in a 28 hectare enclosure for acclimatization for nearly three weeks. Deputy conservator of forest T Mohan Raj said, “ The decision to release the tiger was taken after the big cat appeared ‘comfortable’ and ‘normal’ in the surroundings of MHNP. The monitoring of the tiger will be done round the clock. We have constituted three teams, which will work in 8 hours shift,” 
 
 To monitor the movement of the tiger, an advanced radio collar bought from Germany has been installed on the neck of RT-91. A forest official informed, for the safety of the tiger, the administration would set-up a hi-tech security system. To record the movement of the tiger at night, the thermal cameras will also be installed at the park.
 
 After successful relocation of tiger RT-91, the state wildlife department also brought 105 spotted deer (cheetal) from Rashtrapati Bhavan (New Delhi) to Darrah range. 
 
 The department had focused on augmentation of the prey base, before releasing the tiger in 82 sqkm wild area.
 
 The wildlife conservationists earlier had voiced concerns over inadequate prey base before releasing the tigers in the reserve. The prey base was a major concern as it was available only in pockets. Augmentation of prey base was necessary as tiger can find rich prey only in Jhamra pocket of Darrah.
 
 A senior forest department official said, “We have proposed to release more than 250 cheetals in MHNP. The cheetals are already brought from New Delhi . The department will also shift more herbivorous animals from Bikaner and Kota zoos. The process to take permission for shifting has been started.”
 
 As the tiger has been released, the forest department will rope in wildlife lovers , NGO’s and guards to run a programme in which nearby villagers will be educated about the tiger conservation. 
 
 
