Malayalam actress  , who has also worked in numerous other South Indian film industries, has entered wedlock today. Bhavana, whose latest film in Malayalam is 'Adam Joan,' married her longtime boyfriend and Kannada film producer Naveen at Thrissur. The function, which had the presence of many celebs from across film industries, was held at Thiruvambadi Temple in Thrissur in the morning around 10 am. 

  
  
 
 The bride, who wore a golden coloured sari, had her hair put up into a bun wrapped with jasmine flowers. Noted make-up artiste Renju Renjimar had earlier posted a selfie with the pretty bride on her social media page, which hints that its Renju's hands which were behind making Bhavana the pretty bride that she is, on her D-day. Yesterday, the photos of Bhavana's mehndi function, in which she wore a yellow outfit that complimented her casual look well, had also gone viral. Bollywood actress Priyanka Chopra had wished Bhavana a happy married life, a few days ago.
 
  
  
 
 The close friends of the bride and groom, including celebrities such as Manju Warrier, Navya Nair, Sayanora Philip, Miya, Shamna Kasim aka Poorna, Remya Nambeesan and the like were also spotted at the venue, decked up in their best ethnic attires. Actor Sidhique was also present at the function. 
 
 Bhavana's brother had earlier told us that the function will be a simple affair and will not be a conducted on a grand scale. The couple's relatives, prominent political leaders and other film personalities were also present at the function. 
 
 
  
 
 Bhavana debuted in Malayalam film industry with the film 'Nammal,' directed by Kamal, in the year 2002. Though she did a character-role named Parimalam with a de-glam look, the actress was noted for her talent and more projects followed. Bhavana also won a State Award for her performance in the 2005 film 'Daivanamathil,' directed by Jayaraj. 
 
 There will be a reception at 6 pm at the Lulu Convention Centre for her friends from the film industry. Here are a few pictures from the wedding. 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
