VISAKHAPATNAM: In what could be called the first step towards reclaiming its dumping yard in  , the Greater   Municipal Corporation has decided to bio-mine the existing landfill.

 The landfill at the dumping yard has been filled with unsegregated garbage since 2001. The   will now undertake re-mediation of 25-acre part of the nearly 100-acre dump site located at Kapuluppada in which about 2.5 lakh metric tonnes of garbage is accumulated.
 
 The GVMC is currently inviting bidders to take up the project after it issued an EoI (Expression of Interest) in 2017. GVMC commissioner   informed that three firms have shown their interest in the project as part of the EoI, following which they are now inviting detailed project proposals.
 
  is a procedure where old waste is slackened by tractor-harrow and massive items are manually recovered. Then, the old waste is sprayed with composting bio-culture and transformed into useful compost. This will help reduce the garbage ‘footprint’ in the city and free up the space at the dumping yard. It will also come up with various environmental benefits such as preventing seepage of garbage mounds affecting water quality and others. Bio-mining will also reduce emissions from the landfill.
 
 The successful bidder is expected to install the plant with machinery of required capacity for segregation of the dumped waste with its reuse and scientific disposal. The existing waste of 2.5 lakh MT will be scientifically processed and transported to the designated storage/disposal site to make the land usable for any other purpose.
 
 All the fresh garbage will be, however, dumped in the Kapuluppada site only, but at designated locations and plan layout discussed between the successful bidder and the GVMC. 
 
 According to GVMC officials, the bidder has to carry out the contour survey and submit it to the GVMC every month for monitoring volumetric reduction of the existing dump.
 
 The Solid Waste Management Rules of 2016 also mandate the local bodies to allow only non-usable, non-recyclable and non-reactive inert waste to go to sanitary landfill. The local bodies shall also investigate and analyse all old open dump sites and existing operational dump sites for their potential of bio-mining and bio-remediation.
 
 In bio-mining, the waste is levelled first and recyclables removed from it. The waste is then sieved and material useful for compost is again separated from it. 
 
 The remaining waste goes to the landfill.
 
 
