Shillong: With less than a month to go for the  , an exasperated sense of deja vu has hit the people of  . In a state that has voted Congress to power six times, BJP is hoping to make ‘jingkylla’, or change, a buzzword, but it is yet to catch on.

 “It’s quieter here this time,” said Manzu, a taxi driver, equally comfortable with English and Hindi. Work takes him across the serpentine roads of the state frequently. In this election, the 32-year-old feels, all roads lead nowhere. “In 2013, all you could hear was election talk. This time, everyone is tired. Which government comes to power doesn’t matter because nothing ever changes,” he added.
 
 The Congress-led government has been in power here for eight years now. The feeling of stagnation seems especially strong among young voters. “All candidates are good before the election. After being voted to power, they forget our concerns,” said young graduate Permon Nongrom, handing out pamphlets for a finance company in the bustling Police Bazaar square. The 23-year-old graduated from Shillong Commerce College last year but has failed to find promising job opportunities here. “I was in Kolkata for a job interview. They asked why I went there, all the way from Shillong. There are no jobs here. What do we do?” she added. But the unemployment rate in Meghalaya, at 48 per 1000, is lower than the national average of 50. “The quality of employment opportunities is poor. There are no multi-national companies, few government jobs and very limited avenues,” Permon explains.
 
 Even the few who are willing to place their bets on one party or the other are not too hopeful. “Everyone disappears after election,” said 46-year-old Ashikur Rahman, adding that the Congress rule has been peaceful but little progress has been made. His family, which has been here since 1930, runs a restaurant on Thana Road here that advertises beef items on the signboard. Could that change if there is a new government? “BJP can’t do anything about the sale of meat in Meghalaya. It is part of the culinary tradition of more than one community here,” Rahman said. “Regional parties will call the shots this time,” he is confident.
 
 Many feel it will be a close call. “Things will definitely be shaken up. It could even go half-and-half for Congress and BJP,” 57-year-old Sanjay Chakraborty says, looking up from the teer counter he mans. “Right now, there are no jobs and no representation for non-tribals. Owning businesses will get easier under BJP,” added Chakraborty, a Bengali whose family came here in 1956. BJP could not win any of the 13 seats it contested last time. The cautious optimism, this time, revolves around the party’s fortunes at the Centre and in other states. “Under Modiji, the country has made some progress. Things in Meghalaya could also improve under BJP,” Chakraborty said.
 
 
