It’s been two years since research scholar   ended his life in a hostel room at the UoH. His death, on January 17, 2016, had triggered a series of PROTESTS AGAINST institutionaliSed caste discrimination, 
and the plight of students from marginalised communities, not only IN uoh, but campuses across the country. Two years on, the scars of Rohith’s death haven’t healed and his memories still haunt many on campus. Here’s 
 what students had to say about life on campus post Rohith Vemula. 
 
 ROHITH STILL AN ELUSIVE DREAM
 Two years have gone by, but there has been no justice for Rohith. In fact, discrimination on the basis of caste has increased and those who protest are targeted and attacked. Faculty members who have supported the students in their fight for Vemula’s justice haven’t been spared either. In these two years, the campus has only turned into a more hostile space for students, who have gone through tremendous struggle at a great personal cost to pursue higher education. 
 —  , uoh
 
 ARCHAIC HOSTEL LAWS ARE STILL OUR BANE
 Unfortunately, administrative officials are running this like a private university and the voices of students are being suppressed. Members of the media, well-wishers, politicians and friends of students are being restricted at the gate. The administration is proving itself incapable of being sensitive to any of the students’ issues, and are mercilessly suspending them because of archaic hostel rules. 
  —  , UoH
 
 WE WERE THE LAST LIBERAL VARSITY IN INDIA 
 UoH is not the same post Rohith’s death and the movement associated with it. It was one of the few remaining liberal political academic spaces in this country and now it's under threat. For those who participated in the movement, there surely is a sense of disappointment that no concrete result has come out of the protest, (not denying that the movement was successful in bringing up the discussions on caste atrocities in higher education). What’s worrisome is that life for student activists has become much harder now. Graffitis, which were a powerful tool in the Rohith Vemula protest, are now banned. Targeted attack on student activists and faculties who stood with the movement has become the norm.
  — Unnimaya U G, UoH
 
 POLITICAL ACTIVITY IS SUPPRESSED ON CAMPUS
 In two years, I think, except the political atmosphere nothing much has in the campus. The organisations have started to develop some sense of solidarity. Media is banned on campus and entry is restricted for outsiders and there is an official circular banning protests inside the campus. Surveillance from the administration has increased, CCTV cameras are being installed at all the public spaces in the campus such as canteens, shopping complexes and places where students gather for discussions. The administration is trying to suppress all forms of political activities in the campus.
 —  , UoH
 
 THE VARSITY HAS MOVED ON, CLASSES HAPPEN AS THEY SHOULD, PROTESTS TOO 
 I think like any good university, there is a healthy atmosphere here too, which allows students to grow and express themselves. Students here enjoy a lot of freedom compared to other campuses. We are given enough space to discuss and debate the topics of our choosing and we have the freedom to organise events, street plays, flash mobs, anywhere on campus. I have not noticed anything being thwarted by the administration unless it’s something majorly disruptive. Political and social movements in a university campus is common, but that should not disturb academics, because ultimately the students are here to learn. In that sense, the University has moved on since Rohith Vemula’s death. We are at a stage where classes are not skipped by students, and those who wish to support any movement are allowed to do so. 
 —  , UoH
 
 
