PIMPRI: Fourteen-year-old Raj Satish Kamble, a standard VIII student of the privatelyrun Sayajinath Maharaj English Medium School in Charholi, was run over by the school bus in which he was travelling in   on Thursday.

 The hired bus with 42 students left the school around 2.15pm. The accident occurred near a cattleshed near Sainagari in Wadmukhwadi village around 2.30pm.
 
 Dighi police’s assistant inspector M P Kadam, who is investigating the case, said the bus was dropping the students home. “Raj was standing at the exit door. He was jolted when the bus passed over a rough patch on an untarred road in Wadmukhwadi. The exit door opened after the boy’s hand hit it. He fell off the bus and came under its rear wheels,” he said.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Bus driver Babu Vitekar has been arrested for rash and negligent driving. He was later released on bail.
 
 Sub-inspector  , who lodged a complaint, said, “The students were playing Holi inside the bus. The boy fell from the open door after the bus hit a rough patch on the kaccha road. The driver did not warn the students against playing Holi inside the moving bus.”
 
 After Raj fell off the bus, the students raised an alarm. “The bus driver stopped, but the vehicle had already run over Raj. Vitekar took him to a private hospital in Moshi in a private vehicle. They sent him to   where Kamble died during treatment," Kadam said.
 
 The school is located along Pune-Alandi Road near   depot chowk. Raj lived behind Sai temple with his father Satish, mother Reena and 12-year-old sister, Riya.
 
 Principal Rohit   said the bus does not belong to the school. "It is a private bus hired by the parents for their wards’ transport. School gets over at 2.10pm and the accident occurred around 2.30pm outside the school. The driver informed us after the boy was declared dead at YCM Hospital in Pimpri," Kalbhor told TOI.
 
 He added that the driver had told them there was an attendant inside the bus. “We will meet the school transport committee members on Saturday and investigate the matter,” Kalbhor added.
 
 Kadam said the school has given a contract to the bus operator to ferry students. “We don’t know if the contract is a written one. It is learned that an attendant was present in the bus but he was not near the exit door. We will write to the school on Saturday seeking the attendant’s details so that he can be called for questioning about the accident,” he added.
 
 Police have seized the bus and they have written to the RTO, Pune to examine it and check the documents. “We have no information about this accident. A detailed inquiry will be conducted and strict action will be taken against the driver, school bus owner and the others who were involved. The education department will be intimated about the school too. The safety of children in school buses has been our focus. On February 20, we had a meeting about it with the police commissioner, ” deputy RTO Sanjay Raut said.
 
 Raj’s father Satish said, “The bus driver used the potholed road instead of the main road to drop the students home which led to my son’s death. There was no school attendant inside the bus. Our house is half a km from the accident spot but the driver took Raj to a private hospital. Other children told us about the accident around 3.30pm. We went to the hospital and were sent to YCM Hospital.”
 
 Raj’s aunt Nishigandha said action must be taken against the driver and the school for not adhering to the safety rules. “Raj returns home at 2.30pm everyday but when he was not home by 3.15pm, his parents tried to contact the driver whose cellphone was switched off.
 
 Some students informed us that Raj had met with an accident and had been taken to a private hospital,” Nishigandha said.
 
