NEW DELHI: Moves to submit a removal motion against Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra hit a bump with a lack of consensus among opposition parties after DMK withdrew its support to the move and Trinamool   indicated that it will wait to see if a wider concurrence emerged.

 
 Congress on Thursday said discussions were on with other opposition parties on bringing a removal motion against the CJI even as the day began with heightened expectations that the motion was close to being readied and would be submitted to the Rajya Sabha chair.
 
 Sources said Congress will reach out to the DMK leadership again following a last-minute rethink in the southern party. DMK MPs said they had conveyed to Congress that they were withdrawing their signatures from the petition. It is learnt that the Congress brass may talk to DMK chief M K Stalin on Thursday night. Speculation continues that a fresh stab at submitting the motion may be made on Friday.
 
 After appearing to have initially moved on the removal petition, Congress seemed to have gone into a slow mode, apparently as the leadership wanted wider support. In the last couple of days, however, the move picked pace only to hit the pause button in view of the lack of enthusiasm among parties understood to be wary of wading into differences in the  .
 
 The issue has been politicised with the public dissent by four senior most judges of the SC finding support from Congress and Left. The PM has said it should be left to the judiciary to sort out its issues internally. The dissenting judges' reference to bench selection, particularly in reference to the petition seeking a probe into the death of judge B H Loya, who was hearing the Sohrabuddin encounter case, made the removal petition even more politically volatile.
 
 There was apparently no headway with Trinamool Congress which had earlier said it would be on board if an opposition consensus on the motion to seek the CJI's removal emerged. A few rounds of discussions were held between opposition parties including DMK and TMC on Thursday. It had appeared a done deal with managers expected to submit the petition but the delay triggered speculation about its fate. There was speculation about SP too pulling out but Congress sources denied it.
 
 When asked about the "roadblock", Congress spokesman   said, "The opposition is discussing the issue. I cannot answer more here and party will give a detailed reply."
 
