GURUGRAM: At least 17 cases of alleged medical negligence filed against different private clinics and hospitals in 2017 are still pending with the district health department.

 According to rules, the health department should complete the entire process — probing allegations of medical negligence and malpractices, submit the inquiry report and initiate action — within 28-30 days after receiving a complaint.
 
 However, sources said, the department is yet to record statements of the complainant and accused in the death of seven-year-old Saurya  , who was treated for dengue and charged Rs 15.88 lakh by a city-based hospital before his death in Delhi in November.
 
 Alleged wrong diagnosis and unnecessary hospitalisation of a 55-year-old gynaecologist, the death of a boy who was suffering from diarrhoea and died after being administered a wrong injection, and the molestation of a 16-year-old girl by two male nurses inside the ICU of a private hospital are among the other prominent cases that made headlines last year. Most of these complaints were filed in November and December. But, the authorities concerned are yet to take action in these cases.
 
 When contacted, health department officials said they were now going to summon complainants as well as accused in all the pending cases to record their statements. They also said all these cases would be disposed of by March-end.
 
 The district-level medical negligence board, which is expected to probe these cases, comprises five members, namely district chief medical officer Dr BK Rajora, Gurugram’s principal medical officer Dr  , two paediatricians from Gurugram general hospital and a representative from the   (IMA).
 
 A member on the board, on condition of anonymity, claimed that investigations in some of these cases were almost complete but needed a few more meetings to complete the reports. “The problem is private clinics or hospitals, facing charges, sometimes do not turn up for the meetings or do not submit their replies in time, delaying the entire process. We serve them notice but they claim that they haven’t received it. Now, we will use all modes of correspondences so that meetings are held as scheduled,” he added.
 
 Thus, apart from registered posts, the department has decided to send emails and make phone calls to summon both sides for investigations. All parties will be given specific dates, on which the medical negligence board will hear their arguments. The board will also keep a record of the notices sent in the case files to identify the delays.
 
