MANALI: Manali is one of the favoured summer destinations for tourists who come to Himachal Pradesh to beat the heat in the cool environs of the hill state. Now, with Shimla struggling with unprecedented water crisis, more and more tourists are heading towards Manali, giving a further boost to the local tourism industry.

 Contrary to Shimla, peaks in Manali are high and remain covered with   round the year. The glacier-fed water streams have enough water to meet the need of the locals as well as the hospitality industry throughout the year. Hotels here are spread across a huge area and they are connected by dozens of different water schemes. Many hotels have their own water connections. Besides, the valley has Beas and dozens of its tributaries to deal with emergency situation.
 
 Keeping in mind the increased tourist in-flow, Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus has directed the officials to ensure enough water supply in all parts of the district and has also ordered to establish hand pumps at drier regions where people have raised complains about water shortage.
 
 While temperature in the northern plains of the country has crossed 40 degree Celsius mark at many places, the temperature at Rohtang, where tourists are having fun in snow, is close to freezing during nights. Hotel occupancy here is above 80%.
 
 It rained for about two hours in Manali on Thursday, making the atmosphere even more pleasant. The night temperature here was recorded at 10.8 degrees Celsius and the maximum day temperature was 27 degrees Celsius. The day temperature in Shimla and   has reached 28.8 and 33.6 degrees Celsius respectively. Una recorded the maximum day temperature of 42.4 degrees Celsius, which was higher than Chandigarh.
 
 Manali Hoteliers Association president Gajender Thakur said, “We are blessed with amazing weather conditions. People in plains are having tough time facing scorching heat and here they can touch snow at Rohtang Pass. Traffic jam and inadequate parking are the major problems here. Otherwise, many tourists are extending their stay.”
 
 While water is available 24 hours a day in Manali, hoteliers in Shimla are storing water with help of tankers. A few hotels in Shimla have even asked the tourists not to book their property and they are ready to refund full amount to those who had booked rooms in advance. However, some hotels are providing normal service to their customers by transporting water from long distances and others are supplying water to the rooms in buckets.
 
 Shimla Hoteliers and Restaurants Association president Harman Kukreja said the water scarcity in Shimla has hit the tourism hard. “Now, water is being supplied with help of water tankers. We hope situation will return to normal in the next few days,” he said.
 
 
