MADURAI: With the city corporation scheduled to hear public opinion on the construction of 56 more overhead tanks (OHT) to supply drinking water on Friday evening, residents as well as their representatives have expressed concern at the very utility of these proposed tanks. Most of the OHTs remain unused while the residents in the tailend areas are deprived of water due to inadequate water pressure. 

 The construction of the OHTs is one of the components of the Rs 1,140-crore drinking water project for the city. At present, 115 MLD of water is being drawn from Vaigai dam. Under the proposed project, 120 MLD of water would be drawn from Mullaperiyar dam at Lower Camp. Since the water would be directly drawn from Periyar through a closed conduit officials say that a lot of water could be saved from evaporation and percolation loss. 
 
 There are already 172 OHTs in the city most of which were constructed in 1999 and 2009 and are concentrated in the newly added areas. According to corporation sources, of the 172 tanks, only 28 are major ones. Each of them has a minimum capacity of 8 lakh litres while the rest have a capacity ranging from 50,000 litres upwards. 
 
 A former councillor of Madurai Corporation, M Chellam, representing CPM said that the construction of new OHTs was nothing but wastage of public money.  , a resident of Villapuram, said that water was not supplied through tanks and as a result the pressure was inadequate to reach the tail-end areas. “Many tanks in the city merely serve the purpose of a landmark,” she said. 
 
 A L Raguram, a resident of   near   road, said “Water pressure is not uniform. While a few houses in the other end of our area get water for several hours, we hardly get any water.” An official said they did not expect any opposition from the public at the public hearing since water has been a problem for long for the city. Moreover, according to the corporation officials, the OHTs would be constructed only on poramboke land belonging to the civic body and not on any private land, he said. 
 
 The proposed project, which would be carried out with Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and   funds, is expected to be cater to the drinking water needs of the city for the next 20 years. 
 
 
