PATIALA: Three policemen have been placed under suspension in a case of custodial death of a 70-year-old man in Patiala. However, no arrests have been made in the case and police were still searching for the suspended cops on Thursday. 

  Singh, an old man from   village of Patiala, died on Tuesday afternoon, hours after he was rounded up by police without registration of any case or legal intimation. Following Harnek’s death in custody, his protesting family members had pelted stones on the police and even overturned their jeep. They had accused five cops, including the three who had come in a jeep to round up Harnek and taken him to police station, for his death. Following the protest, the police had booked three cops and two unidentified persons under charges of murder on Tuesday evening. However, not a single arrest has been made even after two days of Harnek’s death. 
 
 A case was registered at Ghagga polie station against three head constables — Bhola Singh, Gurmel Singh and   — and two unidentified persons. The victim’s family had identified the three cops who took Harnek in their jeep but not the two on bike who were accompanying the jeep. Police suspended all three head constables on Wednesday and claimed that the matter was being probed into thoroughly. They also confirmed that no case registered was ever registered against Harnek in the past.
 
 Meanwhile, the autopsy report of Harnek does not mention any injury marks on his body.   civil hospital senior medical officer  , who conducted the post-mortem of the deceased said that further details about the cause of death would become clear after getting the chemical examination report.
 
 “We have suspended the cops who were booked under charges of murder. However, no arrests have been made as they are on run. The cops allegedly rounded up the deceased to investigate into a matter related to drugs. The deceased was a heart patient and had already suffered an (heart) attack before. Harnek died following a heart attack on Tuesday,” DSP Patran Devinder Attri. 
 
 According to the FIR, Harnek was tortured while being taken into a jeep by three cops and two unidentified men. It adds that the cops left the body of the deceased in the jeep near Kakrala village.
 
 Karamjit Singh, a family member of the victim, said, “We cremated Harnek as the police have registered a case against the cops and suspended them. We found the body in a jeep that the cops had left near Kakrala village. No one from the family has faced a single case of NDPS ever.”
 
 
