KOLKATA: After recent incidents of vandalism and defacing of statues of   across India, a film on the   ideologue as the central character is being showcased to “educate” masses about the leader’s contribution and present a “correct” perspective of what had happened during the 1946 riots. Milan Bhowmik’s “Danga The Riot” will kick-start a special campaign with its first screening in Agartala on April 4 followed a Guwahati screening on April 8 and subsequently, in Kolkata on April 10.

 Though BJP is officially not organising the screening, the director insists that “few BJP central ministers” and the Tripura governor will attend the Agartala screening. “This film has been in the cans for long and then, I had to fight for certification. Now, with the recent incidents of defacement of Mookerjee’s statues, its relevance has increased. The BJP leaders are spontaneously wanting to attend the screening because this film is based on Mookerjee. The newly-elected Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb is also expected to grace the screening,” claimed Bhowmik.
 
 Gajendra Chauhan, who is playing Mookerjee in the film, is keen to attend the events. On being asked if such screenings will help the BJP, he said, “BJP is already ruling the country. But in a state like Bengal, this movie will have a political impact.” Describing Mookerjee as a “real hero” who contribution has been supressed, he said, “Unfortunately, anti-social elements in Bengal have vandalised his statue. Had it not been for him, Bengal would have gone to Pakistan during Partition. The new generation needs to know about his contribution to India,” Chauhan said.
 
 Rahul Sinha, the national secretary of BJP, will attend the Kolkata screening. “We need to give a strong message to those involved in vandalism and defacement of Mookerjee’s statues. Their acts can’t make people fear to screen such a film,” Sinha said, refusing to calculate gains, if any, that BJP might get from the screenings. “People should first know what had happened during the great Calcutta killings. We can calculate loss and gain later on,” he said.
 
 The Tripura governor wouldn’t like to read too much into this association of BJP leaders with the film’s screening. Instead, he wants to focus on the necessity of films giving a correct picture of actual events – something that Bhowmik had claimed to have done in his film. “We have a tendency to hide history. No other country, including America and England, do that. It’s important to expose the truth about our history so that it is not repeated. Unless we see the actual events that happened, how do we know what is not to be repeated,” Roy said. Incidentally, he has already watched a preview of the film in Kolkata and is now eagerly waiting for the Agartala screening.
 
 Bijoy Mukherjee, who is distributing the film across multiple centres in Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, Assam and Tripura, believes that “Danga The Riot” will counter all “negative perceptions that some have tried to spread” about Mookerjee. “It’s a fact that BJP associates itself with Mookerjee. But I feel, every political party in this state should do the same because of the incredible contribution of this son of Bengal,” Mukherjee said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
