MUMBAI: After eight students were sent to juvenile home for a paper leak, Subhash Borse, secretary in charge of the board’s Mumbai division, said, “The students, even though minors, have made a conscious decision to participate in the wrongdoings. So the law must take its own course.” 

 
  
  
 The board will institute an internal committee that will probe into the paper leaks and bar students who are involved from taking exams for the next three to five attempts. 
 
 An officer said that to obtain bail for the students, their parents will have to get bail orders from the court and submit it to the police station. 
 
 The police will then issue a receipt, which will have to be submitted to the court and the observation home for their release.
 
 Investigation officer Daya Nayak said that the eight students were part of a group, “Board ke imp”, on Instagram and that papers were distributed to those who had paid. 
 
 The group was deleted after the leak came to light but the police managed to retrieve the history. 
 
 “The students were allowed to appear for all SSC papers and on Friday, the last day of exams, their parents got them to the police station,” said an officer. 
 
 An officer said the students’ parents have claimed they were unaware about their wards having paid to get papers. “They said they learnt about it only when cops handed over notices about their children being booked for the leak.” The police said some of the students had paid Hasan (22), who had posted the question paper on the Instagram group and also circulated it on WhatsApp groups. 
 
 “Some students said they had paid Hasan money, between Rs 500 and Rs 3,000, but he has claimed that he was still to receive it,” said the officer. On Monday, invigilator Sandhya Pawar (27) had caught three students with the leaked paper at   in Andheri. 
 
 The students’ mobiles led cops to another candidate from Madanpura. This student’s mobile helped them track down Hasan from Kamathipura. Hasan’s arrest and his mobile helped the cops trace the other students from Grant Road, Sion and Badlapur. 
 
 Hasan also led the police to Khan, the kingpin, Singh and Shaikh. The police custody of Khan, Hasan and Shaikh was extended till March 26 on Friday, while Singh’s (24) has been extended till March 27. In Thursday’s paper leak at aSakinaka centre, arrested tuition teachers   (42) and   (27) were sent to police custody till March 27. 
 
 “The board is taking measures to curb leaks but students and few teachers continue to indulge in malpractices. Strict punishment must be ensured. For the past few days, there has been news about various FIRs filed but it still doesn’t deter people as there is no fear.” 
 
 In the late 1990s, the EOW had found that wellknown citizens had purchased leaked papers for their wards.
 
