CHENNAI: City golfer   qualified for the National Finals of   from the Chennai leg qualifier played at the   today. Abhay clinched the qualification spot by carding a nett. score of 69.4 including a remarkable hole–in-one on Hole No.8 (Par 3). The MercedesTrophy 2018 has so far seen 25 qualifiers including today who will be competing in the National Finals to be played at the Oxford Golf Resort in Pune from 4-6 April 2018.

 
 
 Abhay Meganathan the winner and the Vice – Chairman of Rajlakshmi Engineering College, Chennai said, “This is the first time that I am winning a trophy and I haven’t been able to play regularly. I started playing golf 18 months ago and I am really thankful to my wife who has encouraged me to keep playing golf. He further added with the shot I just wanted to hit the greens but the hole-in-one was a bonus.” 
 
 Indian cricketer and former Tamil Nadu Captain   also participated in the day’s play.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 The best Gross Winner of the day was   with a round of 76 and there were a host of other prizes on offer to be won on the day.
 
 Prominent winners included Chummar Verghese who won the Ballantine’s Long Drive Challenge with a mammoth drive of 300 yards. Venkatesh Sundar won the Mercedes-Benz Closest to Pin contest on hole no. 13 by landing the ball at 2 metre and 6 ft from the pin. In the Mercedes – Benz Closest to Pin in Two Shots, Sankar Sundaram landed the ball at 6 ft. and 6 inches from the pin to win the contest on hole no. 14. Ganesan Ananda won the Mercedes-Benz Straightest Drive contest by landing the ball on the line on hole no. 9.
 
 The format of play was Double Peoria. This unique format of adjusting handicaps of players levels the playing field enabling golfers to have a greater chance of qualifying for the National Finals.
 
 A total of 112 city golfers participated in the Chennai leg qualifiers and now the MercedesTrophy qualifications will move to Chandigarh and will tee off on 21st February, 2018 at the Panchkula Golf Club.
 
 This year’s MercedesTrophy will host 27 days of golf across 12 Indian cities. Pune will also host the national finals at the Oxford Golf Resort between 4th and 6th April 2018.
 
 This year for the first time, Mercedes-Benz’s global charity partner– Laureus Sport for Good Foundation is also associated with the tournament to raise funds for its programmes in India. While participants can donate online or on-ground at the tournament venue, Mercedes-Benz India will donate an equal amount to match the funds raised from participants.
 
 Globally, MercedesTrophy witnesses participation of approximately 60,000 golfers from across 60 countries battling it out for the top prize, making it one of the world’s largest and most coveted sporting events.
 
 The 18th edition of the MercedesTrophy after the Chennai qualifiers will travel to 4 more cities – Chandigarh, Gurgaon, Noida and Jaipur. Forty-five winners will be selected from the qualifiers for the National Finals. The qualifiers end on March 11, 2018 in Jaipur.
 
 Three winners of the National Finals will then compete against those from tournaments played in 60 countries all over the world in the 29th edition of the MercedesTrophy World Final to be held in Stuttgart, Germany. Mercedes-Benz is also providing an opportunity for beginners to learn golf through their Golf Clinic program.
 
 
