PATNA: Even as the top brass of different political parties are keeping the cards close to their chests, they have started the process of selecting candidates for biennial elections to the 11 state legislative council seats, which will be held on April 26.

 The terms of 11 MLCs end on May 6. They include CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, former CM Rabri Devi and health minister Mangal Pandey. Of the 11 seats, six belong to JD (U), four to   and one to RJD. 
 
 The effective strength of the state assembly, excluding the Speaker, is 242, and a candidate from a political party will require 21 votes of MLAs for victory. At present, the single largest party in the   is RJD which has 80 MLAs, while its ally   has 27 MLAs.   led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, on the other hand, has one MLA.
 
 As for the NDA camp, the JD (U) has 70 MLAs, BJP 53 and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) and   (LJP) two each. 
 
 “The legislative council election is one of the subjects on the top of the agenda of our party. We will discuss it at our party’s meeting. All MLAs will attend the meeting to be chaired by leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav,” RJD MLA Bhola Yadav said on Thursday. 
 
 The excitement in the RJD camp is palpable as the party is going to emerge as the biggest gainer from the “assembly constituency”. The RJD will not only easily secure Rabri’s return to the legislative council, but also gain three other seats at the cost of JD (U) and BJP. The grapevine is that the RJD might field Santosh Manjhi, son of former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi.
 
 After RJD, another gainer will be the Congress, which may win one seat, despite the fact that it has no MLC among the outgoing 11 MLCs. Like JD (U) and BJP.
 
 The JD (U), having 70 MLAs, will require 63 votes for three wins. The party may pass on seven surplus votes to BJP for the third seat. The BJP, which has 53 MLAs, will easily win two seats. It may bag the third seat with JD (U)’s surplus votes along with the support of RLSP and LJP MLAs. 
 
 
