TRICHY: An elephant with a bob-cut. That’s what Sengamalam, the Rajagopalaswami temple elephant at   in Tiruvarur district, has been sporting these days. Its grey-coloured and neatly cropped hair has earned the pachyderm the fond name of ‘bob-cutting’ Sengamalam among devotees.

 
 In fact, it’s not just a haircut that mahout S  , 45, has bestowed on his elephant. He has also set up a shower shelling out a cool Rs 45,000 for the 30-year-old mammal to beat the heat this summer. Sengamalam was bought from   in Kerala in 2003 for the temple. The person who sold the elephant had in turn bought it from  , said Rajagopal.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 “Sengamalam is like my child. I wanted her to have a special look. Once I watched an elephant cub with a bob-cut in a video on internet. So, I started to grow Sengamalam’s hair. For the last six years, I have been maintaining her hair very carefully,” he said. Rajagopal said that he could get the hair cut done only because of the quiet nature and cooperation of Sengamalam as she never showed any discomfort.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 “I wash Sengamalam's hair using anti-dandruff shampoo three times a day during summer and at least once a day in other seasons. It will completely remove dirt and lice from her head. If she feels itchy, she would scratch away all the hair by rubbing against a tree or pillar,” he said. The mahout said that he used a brush to clean the hair while bathing the animal. “Usually, we rub the hair using stone or scraper but if we use a stone, the hair would not grow,” he said.
 
 After seeing Sengamalam, authorities of Sankarankoil and   temples tried to give the same hairstyle to their elephants Gomathi and Aathinayagi. However, they could not compete with Sengamalam as they did not have much hair, Rajagopal said. “Without the temple authority’s cooperation, I could not have done all these things,” he added.
 
 Rajagopal is helping Sengamalam lead a happy and peaceful life. He had been following the instructions of veterinary doctors at the rejuvenation camp. “That was why she is always calm and friendly with everyone,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 
