BENGALURU: Two persons, including a  , have been arrested for allegedly cheating students by promising them seats in popular medical colleges in the state. Mico Layout police have seized over Rs 1 crore, including Rs 62 lakh worth bank deposits, from the duo.

 The arrested are techie Rajath  , a resident of Electronics City and native of Kundapur, and his associate Jayaprakash Singh, a resident of Kodigehalli and native of Dhanbad in  . The duo had made an advance payment of Rs 20 lakh towards purchase of a flat and also invested Rs 12.5 lakh in shares. Police have also seized a Maruti Baleno, a Royal Enfield, five laptops,   jewellery worth Rs three lakh and various incriminating documents from them.
 
 Police said Shetty is the key accused in the case. He started his criminal activities in Bengaluru after he was released on bail in Udupi in connection eight similar cases in 2013. “Eight cheating cases were filed by different victims, who had paid Shetty money after they were assured seats in prestigious medical colleges. Shetty was arrested along with his associate Nitin in 2013. Out on bail, he shifted base to Bengaluru,” a police officer said.
 
 M B Boralingaiah, deputy commissioner of police (Southeast division) said Shetty has an engineering degree from Manipal and worked as a software engineer in a few IT firms. Jayprakash is a BBM graduate and is involved in two cases reported from Sanjayanagar and Kodigehalli police stations. He partnered with Shetty in 2017.
 
  Later, the duo took help from two more persons, who are still at large. The four would set-up swanky offices to attract medical-seat aspirants and their parents. The gang would procure the list of aspirants from insiders in agencies conducting entrance exams and later send bulk SMSs to them promising seats. 
 
 When contacted by seat aspirants, they’d provide bank account details, instructing them to deposit money. Once they got the money, they’d go off the radar. The gang ran the racket in the name of JP Consultancy, AJA Infrastructure, Frontier, Narayana Consultancy and IRS Consultancy.
 
 
 
