CHANDIGARH: In a first-of-its-kind move to boost the   in the residential areas of the city, Chandigarh administration is all set to install   on the roofs of approximately 350 to 400 government houses having an area of over one kanal. As per the decision, the administration will bear the entire expense to install the panel on each earmarked house.

 
 The UT administration has also prepared a detailed list of such houses situated in around 11 different sectors of the city. The identified houses largely belong to judges (old and new), senior and junior bureaucrats of the city and neighbouring states etc. since the administration has been looking for bigger houses to fix the panels on their roofs. All these houses have an area of one to 6.5 kanal.
 
 “Chandigarh administration has decided to install solar panels on the houses, having an area of one kanal and above. A committee has been formed under the chairmanship of the chief engineer of Chandigarh administration for this initiative. The committee will take the decision on the sizes of the panels to be installed on the earmarked houses and other related aspects and modalities. This committee will also decide the user charges to be taken from each household,” said  , director science and technology and renewable energy.
 
 
 A senior officer of the UT administration while talking to TOI, said, “Since building bylaws are being imposed on all the houses of the city, an initiative has been planned by the Chandigarh administration to make government houses solar energy friendly.”
 
 
 Chandigarh administration has made most of the office buildings of the city  . The buildings of Chandigarh secretariat, police headquarters, Burail jail, DC office, various   and schools and water works have solar panels.
 
 
 
 
 
 The science and technology department of the Chandigarh administration did not receive a good response from the private houses. Not many people came forward in this regard due to various reasons. Though the authority had engaged the public, too, through resident welfare associations of the city, only a few selected people came forward to take part in this initiative.
 
