LUCKNOW: Will   return to   eight months after she resigned from the upper house in protest against not being allowed to speak on the issue of  ?

 The speculation has been triggered in the wake of   chief openly bargaining with the SP and Congress to help her party win a Rajya Sabha seat in the elections slated on March 23.
 
 While the BSP top leaders remained tightlipped, sources close to Mayawati cited her recent decision of not attending Parliament till BJP remains in power at the Centre. “The decision has to be taken at the highest level. At present, we cannot say who would be party’s RS candidate,” said a senior BSP functionary.
 
 Mayawati had earlier rejected the offer of being sent to the upper house with the support of Lalu Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal. This was recently confirmed by RJD leader and Lalu’'s son Tejaswi Yadav who claimed that Mayawati refused the offer saying that she “would not go to RS till BJP was in majority”.
 
 Political experts say Mayawati has been mentioning her resignation from Rajya Sabha in her election rallies to consolidate her core Dalit vote bank. They add that BSP chief may avoid contesting the RS polls amid the possibility of cross-voting by SP and BSP MLAs. The RS candidate from UP will need at least 37 votes to win. SP, which has 47 MLAs, will win one seat comfortably, leaving only 10 spare votes. Even with the help of seven Congress MLAs, a candidate of the BSP, which has 19 MLAs, will be able to garner only 36 votes. Also, analysts say, Mayawati may not like to commit a pre-poll tie-up with the SP and Congress by taking their support to get into the upper house herself.
 
 There were speculations of BSP MP Munquad Ali being re-nominated for Rajya Sabha from UP. But he recently found himself in the midst of a controversy after his son forcibly acquired the shop of a Dalit family in Meerut.
 
 Maya to meet BSP MLAs today
 Lucknow : BSP chief Mayawati has convened a meeting of party MLAs here on Tuesday to draw up a strategy for Rajya Sabha elections slated on March 23. Sources said Mayawati has sought feedback from MLAs about the prospects of a tie-up with SP and Congress ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha elections. 
 
 
