BENGALURU: A   has ordered beverage giant   to pay a Kalaburgai resident a compensation of Rs 27,000 after the 55-year-old found a piece of plastic paper in his sealed 200ml drink. The customer sued for illegal trade practice and deficiency in service and the compensation includes Rs 15 — price of the drink.

 Chandrashekar Gobbur, on December 26, 2015, purchased a bottle of Mountain Dew, a   product, from a restaurant near his residence. Just as he was about to open the bottle, Gobbur spotted a piece of plastic paper floating inside.
 
 A few weeks later, Gobbur filed a complaint against  , its Kalaburagi-based dealer and the eatery, at the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Kalaburagi. He sought a compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh and accused the beverage company of carelessly packing the drink.
 
 While the dealer and seller remained ex-parte, Pepsi’s counsel appeared before the consumer forum and stated that the complaint against a reputed firm like his client’s was vexatious, and was made with intention of making wrongful gain. The counsel argued that the bottle in question was not manufactured by Pepsi, but was illegally bottled by fraudsters using original bottles. The counsel claimed miscreants steal empty bottles from godowns, fill them with spurious drinks and sell them as original Pepsi products. The practice is rampant and out of control, he added.
 
 Pepsi asserted that there is no possibility of a foreign matter being found in their original products as they are manufactured and bottled after a series of tests and quality control checks. Pepsi demanded the complaint be dismissed.
 
 However, since the retailer who sold the bottle failed to appear in court, the judges pointed out that Pepsi didn’t bother to initiate any action against the dealer and the retailer for selling a so-called spurious product with their brand name.
 
 After close to 26 months of litigation, the judges hauled Pepsi over the coals for claiming that the Mountain Dew bottle in question was a spurious product without conducting a laboratory test to substantiate their claim. “Therefore, the facts and circumstances point that the problematic product was indeed bottled by Pepsi at their facility and was defective posing a health hazard to the end customer,” the judges said.
 
 In its verdict on April 10, the forum ruled that the bottle was a defective product and it amounted to deficiency of service on the part of Pepsi. The court ordered the company to pay Gobbur a compensation of Rs 15,000 and an additional Rs 10,000 for causing him mental agony. The judges also ordered Pepsi to pay Rs 2,000 towards the victim’s court expenses. PepsiCo refused to comment.
 
 
