KOLKATA: Infosys co-founder N R   spent more than 90 minutes on the Presidency University campus on Wednesday, fielding questions on topics ranging from demonetisation to the necessity of a unique identification number. But it was the sight of political graffiti scribbled on the 201-year-old institution's heritage walls that got his goat. 

 Graffiti culture was "destroying India", the 72-year-old said. "Institutions like these are like temples. Keep them clean," he instructed students in the middle of the session that occurred two days after  's name on the college's Roll of Honour was defaced. 
 
 The Presidency campus has seen an intense beautification drive, at a cost of Rs 60 crore, in the run-up to and during its 200th anniversary celebrations last year. The efforts drew praise from heritage conservationists like INTACH city convenor G M Kapur and conservation architect Partha Ranjan Das. "I am disappointed to see the graffiti on the walls of this old institution. It is shameful and not the way. It spoils all the wonderful work that you are doing," Murthy observed. 
 
 Described by Presidency vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia as "an entrepreneur par excellence, a one-of-a-kind businessman with a Gandhian core", Murthy spoke candidly in response to students' questions at the Baker Hall. Asked if a unique identification number was indeed necessary, he said every nation had a mechanism to identify individual citizens. "The question is what you are using it for. You shouldn't be misusing it to violate privacy. But we shouldn't dismiss it."
 
 The Padma Vibhushan awardee was sceptical about the motive of demonetisation. He said demonetisation was welcomed by a majority of Indians even though urban intellectuals rejected it. "In every other country where demonetisation happened, high-denomination notes were taken out of circulation to prevent accumulation of black money. But, in our case, Rs 500 notes were replaced with higher-denomination currency. I am not an expert, but there must be some extraordinary reason behind this," he said.
 
 Speaking on the role played by educational institutions, Murthy observed that the Indian system still encouraged rote learning. "We must teach students to apply their knowledge. And, even though many believe that fundamental science is useless, we would not have progressed without it. Without quantum mechanics, we would not have laser, DVDs or laser surgery. Without Einstein's theory of relativity, GPS would be inaccurate by about seven miles. And without his e=mc square formula, PET scan wouldn't have worked."
 
 Stressing on the need to strike a balance between international competitiveness and job creation, he said India had been set back by Brahminical values and population density. "If I am not wrong, India has been defeated by every invader. We need a change in attitude to succeed. That is why I like it when our cricketers show aggression. There's a need for cultural transformation and I believe it can lead to India's economic transformation," Murthy concluded.
 
 
