AMARAVATI/VISAKHAPATNAM/VIJAYAWADA: The state-wide bandh called by the   to protest against the “anti-Andhra” Union Budget 2018 evoked good response in the north coastal  , particularly Vizag city, on Thursday.

 All the major cities like Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam and Tirupati, the protestors came on to the roads since morning displaying placards demanding justice for AP.
 
 
 
 
 The   called by the left parties and supported by all major parties including YSRCP, Congress, Janasena and local committees of BJP, besides the ruling TDP has been peaceful so far. 
  
  
 CPM state leader from the city Ch Narasinga Rao alleged that the Centre allocated huge sums to other states and left AP to its fate.
 
 CPI state leader JV Satyanarayana Murty said they held the bandh against the Centre for the “injustice” meted out to Andhra Pradesh.
 
 The national highway at various places in the state was blocked by the activists. People from all walks of lives have extended their support to the bandh which is being called to protest against the injustice done to the AP in allocation of funds during the Union Budget 2018.
 
 Opposition parties have been protesting the "injustice" done to the state in the Union Budget 2018-19 and the Centre's failure to implement the Act in its letter and spirit.
 
 The Act deals with a host of issues like division of assets and liabilities of institutions between AP and Telangana and release of funds for Polavaram project and other schemes in Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Thin attendance was reported in government offices and public sector undertakings like Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Visakhapatnam Port Trust, National Thermal Power Corp and Hindustan Shipyard,and other
 
 The activities at the commercial establishments and government offices have come to a grinding halt while the government has declared holiday for the schools. 
 
 Cops have arrested hundreds of cadres and leaders of left parties and others who are staging protests in front of various bus depots across the state. Intermediate practical exam scheduled to be held on Thursday has been postponed to February 22.
 
 The Andhra University (AU) announced suspension of classes to avoid inconvenience to students.
 
 Classes would be suspended at the Visakhapatnam-based AU and its affiliated colleges, said Registrar V Umamaheswara Rao in a statement.
 
 RTC buses are not plying in all the 13 districts of the AP. Only buses to Tirumala hills are plying. Around 200 buses are ferrying the devotees to Tirupati, while the authorities concerned in transport wing have not given permission to the other state buses as a precautionary measure to avoid untoward incidents. All the outstation buses and night halt are diverted to the depots at various places.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The railway protection force (RPF) jawans are placed at various places to safe guard the railway properties. 
 
 YSRCP president YS Jagan Mohan Reddy gave break to his walkathon to participate in the protests.
 
 The APSRTC Vizag City chief traffic manager M Sudha Bindu said “Our city service buses were stationed at the respective depots like Maddilapalem due to the protests and agitations as part of the bandh.”
 
 The Vizag city assistant commissioner of police K Prabhakar said that traffic personnel were deployed at various junctions like Jagadamba, Gajuwaka, NAD Junction, Madhurawada and Maddilapalem among others to prevent the traffic jams due to the protests on the national, state and city roads as part of the bandh.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
