BENGALURU: Following in the footsteps of its bigger rivals Congress and  , the   (Secular) has announced that it will provide a monthly pension of Rs 6,000 to pregnant women, senior citizens, widows and the differently abled, waive off all agricultural loans within 24 hours of assuming power, provide free seeds and fertilisers to cultivators and power to rural BPL families.

 
 In its 60-page manifesto for the May 12 elections released on Monday, the JD(S) also announced a monthly amount of Rs 2,000 under the head 'family living assistance' for women who are over 24 years old and have lived in   for 10 years and don’t have an income of Rs 5,000 per month. Besides the family should have less than four acres of land.
 
 The manifesto has promised 100 percent loan waiver to the tune of Rs 53,000 crore. "I will waive off bank loans of all farmers within 24 hours of taking oath and supply free seeds and fertilisers across the state," JD(S) chief ministerial candidate   said after releasing the manifesto.
 
 He said the loan waiver will include all agricultural loans. "We will also set up a farmers’ consultative committee to address their issues. The committee will include two farmers from each of the state’s 30 districts," the former CM said.
 
 The JD(S) has also promised to scrap the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and restore all powers of the Lokayukta. The party said pregnant women, differently abled people, senior citizens and widows would be given pension by the state government. "We will give Rs 6,000 monthly pension for all senior citizens above 65 years," he added.
 
 The party also aims to provide pregnant women an assistance of Rs 6,000 per month, three months prior to delivery and as many months after. "Households below poverty line (BPL) will receive free electricity in rural areas," the manifesto said. JD(S) has also promised a slew of measures to help the poor, including free power and 30 kg rice to BPL families.
 
 Emphasising skill development, Kumaraswamy said, "We will introduce skill development as a stream from Class 8 onwards. After Class 7, children can join skill development schools or formal schools."
 
 The JD(S) has promised to provide a one-time award of ‘Democracy Support Incentive’ of Rs 2,000 to women who vote in these elections.
 
 
 
 Amidst reports of a tacit understanding with the BJP, the JD(S) in its manifesto promised to revive secular values in Karnataka. "Over the last 10 years, the secular fabric of our country in general, and Karnataka in particular, has been vitiated. While BJP favours the pseudo ideology of Hindutva, Congress, in the enthusiasm to develop an AHINDA vote bank, has treated every other community of the state with utter contempt. This approach of national parties has vitiated the plural fabric of Karnataka. We will make sure a government which honours the true secular values," the manifesto said.
 
 
 
