Talk to him about   and students, and you see his eyes light up. In the city recently for an event at St. Joseph’s College, Mysuru Maharaja   spoke proudly about his family, ancestors and their legacy that he wishes to take forward. In a quick chat with Bangalore Times, he told us about bridging gaps in the society and how   trolls have made him a stronger person

 
 
 I think it’s the imperative need of the time. In addition to that, my ancestors have already set out the path for us. They have always given a lot of importance to education. Following that path and the necessities of the current time, I believe it is extremely important to especially empower the sections of the society that are unable to gain the resources or accessibility to various knowledge. To empower them is the biggest need of the hour, which explains my interest in this topic.
 
 
 They are very playful during the interactions. But from my visits to schools, I’ve got to know that they require a lot of teaching staff. There are very good teachers, but perhaps more are needed. Resource-wise, there is a lot of difference in private and government schools. It’s surprising to see how little they manage with; we had so much and we took it for granted in so many ways. Bridging that divide would be a major hurdle, which we would like to overcome in whatever fashion we can.
 
 
 
 Over the last few years, I’ve had the good fortune of meeting a lot of people, most of them youth, and engage with them. Being young myself, I understand that we don’t like anyone to dictate what our opinions or paths should be. At the same time, we are aware that we want to be in a country that is not just moving forward and building for the future but also honours the past. I understand all of these things and can relate to it all.
 
 
 
 In school, it was pretty normal and lot of fun and when I look back, it’s nostalgic. It was a simpler time obviously. College days in USA was a lot of fun and, in its own way, gave me a lot of exposure, making me the person I am today. It was a great time.
 
 
 
 In many ways, yes. It’s definitely a different perspective that’s always here, but in many ways you are taken back to your college days.
 
 
 
 At first, both the positive and the negative attention got to me in many ways. Even positive attention can get to you. But everyone has an opinion and they’re entitled to it. Trolling is a part and parcel of the internet and I’ve no problems with it. The more the adversity, the stronger we become. I’m not particularly bothered by it. It has made me a lot stronger and a lot more aware of what opinions are. Some of it is valid, some of it isn’t. But we love social media and love the medium to bridge the gap of what was and what will be.
 
 
 
 That was the main goal of being so active on social media. I have a small team of my own. We are looking to have a presence on all forms of media to popularize our traditions from all over the state. Being from Bengaluru, I’ve realized that we’ve never really seen much of what goes on in small villages, where our traditions go back to hundreds of years. So, if I can highlight some of that through media, I would love to do it.
 
 
 
 Being a father, obviously, it’s a great responsibility, but I am quite used to being around children. Being a father, you are tied down in many ways, but a lot of doors open too. 
 
 
 
 I really cannot say but from what everyone says, the consensus is that he looks like me.
 
 
