NEW DELHI: The   of an eight-month-old infant in the capital has only shown a disturbing trend of child sexual assaults where most perpetrators are either family members or known to the victim.   say most   belong to the   of the society, and though the children tend to get   early while growing up, the   are extremely   to identify. 

 In 2016, of the total 1,374 sexual offences against children in Delhi, 724 were of rape and resulted in 739 victims. In the same year, 657 cases of crimes against children went to trial of which 377 resulted in either acquittal or discharge. There were merely 280 convictions at a rate of less than 50%. 
 
 A judge, who has dealt with POCSO cases earlier, said children are vulnerable. “And a mature person committing such crimes is diabolical. What we have to look at are the various factors behind the crime,” the judge said. 
 
 He said the free flow of drugs and pornography have hugely impacted the psyche of the perpetrators. “Poverty has its own vicious cycle and children who go through the trauma realise it later only to lose trust in elders,” he added. 
 
 Delhi Police had filed a status report in 2014-15, informing the Delhi high court that they had done a survey in the city and found 58 police stations spread over seven or eight districts where such cases were mostly registered. The report also showed cases where even schoolchildren were found to be involved in harassment. 
 
 Advocate Chandra Suman has appeared in over 300 cases of child sexual assault cases in the last nine years. He stresses that minors between five and six years of age are more vulnerable. “I am sure there is another disturbing aspect to the case of the eight-month-old,” said Suman. 
 
 In such cases, Suman said, children cannot disclose their ordeal as they lack the ability to differentiate between right and wrong. He said in the present case, there is no eyewitness, which only shows that a child’s safety is of prime concern in such households where most parents leave their kids in the company of other people. 
 
 “Anganwadi centres should be set up in the cities and the fringes where parents work as daily wage-earners. These centres can look after their children when parents are not around,” Suman added.
 
 For advocate Pankaj Ranga, his tenure as a public prosecutor in a court dealing with POCSO cases made him aware of the background of most such offenders. When he was prosecuting such criminals, he saw the psychology of the victims being affected in the long run. For them, he said, it was   painful to face the case. “To remind the child during examination of evidence is a difficult job, especially when the sequence of the crime is reiterated,” he said.
 
 Ranga, who now prosecutes drug abusers, suggests sensitisation of parents and other family members. 
 
 Another legal expert, who has been a judge, felt that trauma is severe in majority of cases when children show signs of it. In such cases, he said, counselling is important for their early rehabilitation. A Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) member informed that in such cases stage-wise help is given to victims in need and could be provided with a lawyer, counselling and monetary compensation. “The court in this case has directed for compensation and we will sanction it,” he said. 
 
 DSLSA member secretary and judge Sanjeev Jain said, “Students need to be taught in schools about gender equality and conditioned to choose right from wrong.”
 
 
