THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ‘real’ power of the people was felt on Sunday as thousands stood before the Secretariat with one slogan, justice for Sreejith. The huge rally had the desired effect as those in power initiated a fast-paced operation to safeguard their posts while trying to pacify the man who has been agitating for over 700 days with the sole aim of seeking justice for his dead brother. The ‘Anna Hazare moment of Kerala’, eagerly awaited by social media activists and a section of social scientists, had finally arrived. The mob lent their support, in one voice, to the determination of the young man with a caveat that ‘real power of people’ will strike when their saviours ditch genuine causes.

 “This moment is something that redefines the idea of justice. The continuous denial of justice, often due to the failure of institutions, has led to such an uprising. Just rewind some of the recent happenings like the death of Vinayak in police custody, lathicharge against   protestors and Jishnu’s mother who was dragged away by the police. All these created a social atmosphere which conveyed that Sreejith’s life is in danger,” said writer and social observer TT  .
 
 Political scientist J Prabhash viewed the developments as a natural fallout of the failure of political parties in addressing real issues. “His hunger strike became a rallying point for all those who were disturbed and upset with the system. Each of them might have his own reason and that might not be in conformity with Sreejith’s strike. But, protest has fast become a symbol they can identify with,” he said.
 
 “Government and political parties should view this as a notice. One that is served by their masters to improve performance urgently,” said Prabhash. The silver lining in this episode is that both units understood the warning in its true spirit and it led to quick decisions to help Sreejith.
 
 Social media observer VK Adarsh said protests led by a leaderless mobs may not be a sustainable democratic model. “Who would have been responsible if something unwarranted happened during that protest? Wouldn’t government be blamed then? It is debatable how far mobocracy can succeed,” he said, adding such protests are not good in an organized democracy.
 
 “Political parties can learn a lesson and seek course correction. Supporters of political parties practice online gang wars in social media. Let them stop it and do something good using the new platform,” he said. Sreekumar felt that if parties can correct their style, people would approach them again.
 
 Certain social scientists viewed the hashtag revolution as an indication of the beginning of a post-civil society movement. “In 80s, there were movements for human rights, environment and women rights. Such movements can slowly influence policy makers, and institutions like human rights commission, women’s commission and information commission are results of this movement,” said Sreekumar.
 
 Assistant professor at Govt Brennen College in Thalassery, Dileep Raj recalled how political parties criticized CK Janu when she launched a civil rights movement, undermining political bosses. “I think only cadrebased political parties will be upset over the new wave. They want hegemony and this protest challenges it. We can suggest several examples in the recent past when the government branded protestors as Maoists and radical elements to take the steam out of a real public protest,” he said.
 
 Raj said criticism against the new movement should be viewed only as an initial resistance to a totally new format of politics. “The beauty of politics is its spontaneity and it is a challenge too. Let’s hope for more movements where real stakeholders of democracy wield their swords and assert themselves,” he said.
 
 
