MADURAI: Protests condemning the police firing in   continued for the second day in Madurai city with miscreants damaging government buses at various places.

 A large number of functionaries from DMK staged a road block protest at Periyar bus stand. They raised slogans against the state government for killing innocent protestors during the anti-sterlite march to mark the 100th day of protest on Tuesday. Thideer Nagar police rushed there and instructed the protestors to leave the place. As they refused, 120 people including eight women were arrested. They were released in the evening.
 
 Over 200 people took part in the protest by Communist Party of India (Marxist) at  . They raised slogans against the government and the police during the protest carried out with the prior police permission.
 
 Similarly, a large number of members of Joint Action Council of Teachers Organisations and Government Employees Organisations thronged the Madurai collectorate and raised slogans against the Sterlite unit. They urged the government to close down the unit.
 
 At least four buses suffered damaged in the untoward incidents took place in Madurai city. Cases have been registered against unknown persons and police are tracing the identities of the miscreants.
 
 Unidentified persons pelted stones on a government bus, which was on its way to  , at Palanganatham damaging its windshield. The second incident was reported at Flower market in  , when the bus was on its way to Arappalayam bus stand.
 
 Another bus was attacked at Villapuram. The bus originated from Periyar bus stand was on its way to Avaniyapuram. The miscreants managed to escape even as the bus crew along with the passengers tried to catch hold of them. A bike borne duo pelted stones at a government bus at Shenoy Nagar in Madhichiyam police limit and sped away in no time.
 
 Meanwhile, the closedown called on by the traders association received a lukewarm response in Madurai as almost all the shops were opened. A representative of traders from the city said that they will close down the shops on Friday, as DMK has called for a bandh on that day.
 
 
