NEW DELHI: Counter-attacking Congress’s charge of complicity in the PNB scam,   asked   to explain his association with jewellery designer   and said the scandal had begun during   years while the Modi government acted swiftly once it came to light. Prasad refuted Congress allegations that Nirav Modi was part of the PM’s delegation during his recent visit to Davos. 

 “Nirav Modi was there as a CII member like several other Indian entrepreneurs were there. I wish to deny this with full authority that no personal meeting (of Nirav) with the Prime Minister took place,” he said. BJP also took strong exception to Congress terming the PNB scam accused as “Chhota Modi”, which the party said is another attempt to “belittle” PM   who had promised in a recent speech in Parliament to get to the bottom of non-paying assets mess inherited from Congress.
 
 He said CBI first received a complaint from PNB pertaining to Rs 280 crore on January 29 and a case was registered on January 31. “Lookout notice was issued on 1st February. CBI is also raiding 20 locations associated with Nirav Modi and has seized his Mumbai residence,” he said. Attacking Rahul Gandhi, Prasad referred to a tweet by a disgruntled Congress leader and said Gandhi had gone to attend an event organised by Choksi in 2013. 
 
 “We have cosy pictures of Mehul Choksi with Congress leaders but we shall not stoop to their (Congress) level and release them,” he said. “The Modi government is working with full honesty. I want to make it clear that nobody, irrespective of his stature in the banking system, will be spared,” he said. 
 
 The party said Rahul Gandhi should come clean about his links with Nirav Modi and his business partner Mehul Choksi, the other accused in the PNB scam. “Rahul Gandhi inaugurated the bridal show of Nirav Modi at Imperial Hotel in Delhi in 2013. The Congress chief should also explain how Choksi’s income had doubled between 2011-13,” BJP said. 
 
 “The scam dates back to UPA dispensation but the action is being promptly taken now,” said BJP spokesperson Anil Baluni. About action taken by the Prime Minister’s Office after Bengaluru resident Hari Prasad raised questions on the dealings of Mehul Choksi, business partner of Nirav Modi, in a letter in July 2016, Prasad said it had been acknowledged and action taken by different departments will be conveyed later. 
 
 Prasad claimed the alleged fraud had started in 2011 when UPA was in power. He questioned whose “blessings” were with Choksi as the income of his firm Gitanjali Gems doubled between 2011-13. Prasad said “speedy” action was taken by CBI and the Enforcement Directorate after the scam came to light. On questions about Nirav Modi following the same route as Vijay Mallya and Lalit Modi, he said action against Mallya was being strenuously pursued.
