It has occupied a comfortable niche in the cultural space of this city for a very long time. Frowned upon, looked down upon, and celebrated in equal measure by the cognoscenti who don the mantle of culture’s guardians in Calcutta. Unsurprisingly, it largely draws its audience and performers from notable English-medium institution backgrounds and Occidental influences. In Calcutta, western music nevertheless enjoys, and has enjoyed for at least a century, an enthusiastic following with fervent aspirations. 
The Christian faith has played a significant role in the spread of this music. Indians, charmed by the melodies and rhythms, have persisted till now to make it their own. Church music always found place in the daily life of students in such institutions run by the many Christian denominations. Exposure to this music had listeners exploring even more secular music and sure enough, a small, but thriving community of western music aficionados came into being. And that’s how it is even today.
 This community not just split up into the various genres of the Western music sphere – church, classical, jazz, rock’n’roll – they even created reputed institutions around it, like the  , and a host of shops selling western musical instruments, with Braganza and Reynolds topping that list. All India Radio had western music programming every day for 4 hours or more – afternoon, evening and night. This included a weekly showcasing of local talent. I personally know how popular these were, not just as a listener, but as a creator of some of that programming in my college days. Performances in these genres in auditoriums, classrooms, makeshift stages, brought in new audiences and musicians. Some restaurants hosted bands every evening, creating another space that kept this specific scene throbbing. They did this by giving equal importance to the role the musicians played and the food and drink they served, to their bottomline.
 No matter what anyone says, the western music scene first left its now indelible mark in India via Calcutta. Again, unsurprisingly. The second city of Empire was a crucible of so much that has affected our nation in so many ways. An icon like Tagore would only push it further when he used western melodies and structures for some of his own songs. ‘Purano shei diner katha’ comes to mind immediately, based on the Scottish ‘Auld Lang Syne’. The website geetabitan.com provides a long list of others.
 And that’s where we arrive after my introductory ramble. Songs. Music with lyrics, accompanied by instrumentation. In English. Today the Christian churches are the only places where there is sung music that spans many years and genres. But where are the singer-songwriters in the secular world? The names that instantly come to mind, of musicians still performing, are Rahul Guha Roy, Nischay Parekh, and recently the father-son duo of Melville and Saul Samuel. Underground Authority has done a song on rape and women, but I honestly can’t think of any other singer-songwriters in English who yet perform. I’m ready to be corrected for this.   flared brightly after a hiatus of 30 years some 8 years ago, but he too quit the scene, as has Ananda ‘Mamshi’ Sen of the erstwhile 
 . It is also unfortunate that we have one of the seniormost musicians of this genre now residing with us in Calcutta and we don’t give urban folk singer Susmit Bose the due he so rightfully deserves.   and   too seem to be in hiding. These are the only people I know who compose their own music and who live in Calcutta. Arinjoy Sarkar sings English songs with his trio but I am unsure whether he writes his own. Arko Mukhaerjee sang English songs occasionally with his outfit 
 , but he favours many languages and genres and again, unsure if he composes in English. There are a couple of heavy metal bands who compose but being in a niche within a niche are restricted in appeal. The others have gone on to more lucrative shores, or are dead.
 We now have a far too heavy load of instrumental bands for such a tiny scene. They are all peopled by very talented and skilled musicians, one or two of early vintage. But they don’t sing English, if they do have vocals at all. And there is an overabundance of very fancy guitar playing which gets boring very fast. And they all play safe by doing fusion/jazz, two portmanteau words they use to describe their commingled, cunning, esoteric instrumentation, treating a paying audience indifferently if they don’t like it. 
 The voice is the first instrument. Everything else comes later. We need singers of songs. Lyrics with words that reflect our times and our lives. Some should get beyond love songs. We have them in Bangla, Hindi, Tamil and everything else, so why not English?
  passed away in 1990, and the music he left behind is an important cultural legacy for this city he lived in and was inspired by. One of his classic songs, Politician: ‘I ain’t no politician/ I don’t like to play that game/ I ain’t no politician/ But I’d love to have my say/ I like to know which way I’m going/ Up or down/ I like to know which way I’m headed/ Cause I know/ Freedom needs no introduction/ Gotta keep moving/ In the same direction/ Freedom needs no bye-election...’
 To reach the author, write to patrick.ghose@gmail.com.
 
