CHANDIGARH : Senior   (AAP) leader  , who is leader of opposition in   assembly, blamed the party’s top brass and local cadres for the embarrassing performance of the official candidate in the Shahkot assembly byelection.

 Khaira told TOI that he had suggested that the party should skip the assembly bypoll. “Bhagwant Mann and I had told the party that we should not fight the byelection. But the high command still went ahead,” the Bholath MLA said.
 
 “The campaign could never pick up in Shahkot and though I did go where and whenever I was called, but beyond that it was for the local cadres to give it the required impetus. I could not have gone campaigning door to door,” Khaira added.
 
 “The organizational structure could not be built properly over the past one year, even though the legislative wing has tried to do its bit, and that was one big disadvantage,” he claimed.
 
 Asked if the Shahkot bypoll will have a bearing on the Lok Sabha elections next year, he said, “Byelections cannot be looked at in that way. These mostly go to the ruling party in the state. For example, the Khadoor Sahib byelection before the assembly polls but they later lost that seat by almost the same margin,” he said.
 
 Khaira again red-flagged the issue of greater autonomy for the state unit. “For one, appointments in the organizational structure need to be made on merit. Even though the central leadership has lately said that the state units is now on its own, that is not the case and most decisions come from Delhi,” he said.
 
 The party also assigned the responsibility of structure building to Balbir Singh relieving Aman Arora of the responsibility. It was Singh, who was keen that the party contested the assembly bypoll. Earlier, Khaira had taken exception to a 21-membercore committee named by the party leadership in March. He had pointed out that names of many leaders included in the list by the Delhi leadership were already holding important posts in the party structure.
 
 He, however, denied that there was infighting in the state unit and the party did not put up a united face to contest the elections.
 
 
