GURUGRAM: Eight hundred private   will be shut in the state today, including over 100 in Gurugram, to   the death of the principal of Swami Vivekanand Public School in Yamuna Nagar, who was shot dead by a Class XII student.

 On Monday, when the protest began, around 60 school owners and 200 principals representing Haryana Progressive Schools Conference (HPSC) presented a memorandum letter to deputy commissioner Vinay  , who assured HPSC representatives that all matters would be looked into. 
 
 Though the letter, directed at chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, begins with a reference to the principal’s murder, it gives a glimpse into a raft of grouses the managements of   in the state have carried for some time, which now appears to have boiled over. From the fracas over fee hike, to the spotlight on children’s safety in the wake of the Ryan International murder, the managements of   schools claim they have been unnecessarily pushed around.
 
 Colonel Pratap Singh, chairman of CCA School and HPSC senior vice-president, said, “We have submitted the memorandum to the deputy commissioner. Our organisation hopes the matter will be considered with all seriousness by the state government. On Monday, a representative of the education department had called up a private school to ask whether it will be open on Tuesday or not, in a gruff voice. We want to send the government a clear message that it’s time to end persecuting us.”
 
 The letter states India’s reputed education system has been badly bruised with faulty, uncalled for rules, regulations, interference and activism against schools. HPSC (Gurugram) secretary Rajiv Kumar, who is also the manager of Lions Public School, said, “Some parents fail to groom their children, who then vent their anger in society, and worse still, against their teachers. In turn, the parents point their frustration at the very same teachers who are putting their heart and soul in mentoring their wards. Activists and NGO’s are also vitiating the education system, inciting non-issues, creating hype and encouraging a rift between students, teachers and parents.”
 
 Representatives of private school also feel most education-related Acts and Rules in Haryana are discriminatory and impractical, and biased against private schools, as they are not applicable to government schools. Dipin Rao, vice-chairman,   and secretary, HPSC, said, “The administrative machinery’s emphasis is directed solely in reining in private schools to submit to their authority by complying with their whimsical, egoistic and faulty regulations and orders. In the garb of ‘child safety’, for example, they often go overboard. Then there are practical issues. Most schools are situated inside the RWA colonies, which cite security concerns to often keep all colony gates barring one locked. This causes huge traffic jams. In our letter, we have requested the RWAs to open all gates during the school hours.”
 
 Abha Raghav, principal, Sharda International School in Sector 10A, said, “Officials in the administration often take insult for no reason, and threaten private schools with de-recognisation and withdrawal of affiliations in every other letter. Threats include FIRs, manipulation of police to get principals or promoters of schools arrested, all in the name of sticking to regulations.”
 
 The letter also expresses disappointment that instead of acting like visionaries, the administration often displays “lack of maturity”, often passing orders that have no connection with the ground reality. It goes on to say that while the condition of government schools is pathetic, be it in education, infrastructure or facilities, private schools fill in the void created by incompetence of successive governments.
 
