She’s not only a self-made Bollywood star but is also creating waves in Hollywood without a Godfather. We’re talking about the versatile  . The actress, who is the first guest this season, will be seen joining   and Rohit Shetty on the episode. Talking about the show, Priyanka says, “India’s Next Superstars is an incredible platform for young actors to showcase their craft. Kudos to Star Plus, Karan and Rohit for creating this platform and giving actors a strong start to their careers. A guaranteed role in a Karan Johar or Rohit Shetty film is a dream come true for any aspirant. I have always believed in promoting new talent and have encouraged every opportunity for them to shine and I believe that this is one such platform. Coming from a non-film background myself, I understand the participants’ struggles and I’m glad that India’s Next Superstars has created a new avenue for fresh talent to be discovered.”

 
 
 
 With stars in their eyes and hopes of making it big in Bollywood, here are the lucky few who could bag the next film co-produced by Karan Johar, Rohit Shetty and Fox Star Studios. Talking about the participants on the show, Rohit says, “Each contestant has come with their own style and charisma from across 
 the world to fulfil their dream of seeing their name written on the big screen. Like I’ve said, ‘Superstars bante nahi, banaye jaate hai’ because they’re not just regular actors, they are characters that live in the hearts of the audiences forever.” Karan adds, “The participants on the show have talent. However, the journey is not going to be as easy as they think. They do not know what’s in store for them — it’s not all glitz and glamour. Being a superstar takes a lot of hard work, resilience and sacrifices.”
 Apart from the gala weekend performances, these contestants will also get an opportunity to be mentored and groomed by experts throughout the week, in India’s Next Superstars — Aaj Ki Tazaa Khabar, which will air Monday to Friday at 10.30 pm.
  and Close-up present India’s Next Superstars powered by L’Oreal Casting Crème Gloss starts tonight at 8 pm.
 
 
 
 The ugly duckling who became a swan
 From being an unattractive and reclusive kid to blooming into a glamorous and confident adult, Laveena’s journey has been one of self-realisation and transformation. Hailing from a conservative family, Laveena fought traditional conventions and has set out on another long journey — to become India’s next 
 superstar!
 
 
 
 Family pride comes first
 Son of a junior artistes supplier in the film industry, Shariq was always troubled by the fact that his father never received the recognition he deserved. He believes his talent can make him a star. He wants to make it big in the industry for his father.
 
 
 
 Casting couch survivor
 Refusing any shortcuts to success, Ashish has been trying to get a Bollywood break since the last five years. He has faced many hardships, including an unfortunate casting couch incident. However, he continues to strive hard, purely on the basis of his talent and hopes to become an award-winning actor some day.
 
 
 
 The thinking actor
 Karan wanted to become an actor since the age of 11. Staying away from his parents and friends, he had to face a lot of disappointments in his journey so far. However, the serious and thinking actor has not been deterred from his resolve. With India’s Next Superstars, he feels that he has got the best platform to showcase his talent and is confident that he’ll get the elusive Bollywood break from Karan Johar and Rohit Shetty.
 
 
 
 From zero to hero
 Belonging to a lower middle-class family in Delhi, Ansh’s story is one of undying hope and self-conviction. Having lost his father to cancer at a young age, his life had reached a point where he did not even have food to eat. He dotes on his mother. His dream is, by his own admission, to go from a ‘zero to hero’ and become a superstar. All he possesses is his talent and he’s convinced that this is all he needs to achieve his dreams.
 
 
 
 The fighter
 Jash had a speech impediment while growing up and was the subject of public ridicule. However, through his own efforts and able support from his family, he has not only crossed this hurdle, but also worked towards becoming a typical Bollywood hero. Bande mein hai dum!
 
 
 
 Rebel with a cause
 Sahiba is a young aspiring actor who came to Mumbai four months ago, much against the wishes of her parents. However, her passion for acting and confidence in her own talent has fuelled her decision to build a career in Bollywood. She hopes to become a huge star in future and justify her choice.
 
 
