CHENNAI: Enforcement authorities claim they have been acting against the sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products within 100 yards of educational institutions, but records at the Adyar Cancer Institute tell a different story: There is a two-fold rise in patients with mouth cancer, and an increasing proportion of younger men. 

 The hospital has roped in a private company to create a mobile   that will help map schools within 100 yards of a stall selling tobacco products. The 'safe zone' app, whose functioning was demonstrated to police, food safety and railway officials at the Cancer Institute on Wednesday, will be available in Google Play Stores soon. 
 
 Section 6 of the Control of Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) 2003, says no person should sell, offer for sale, or permit sale of cigarette or other tobacco product to any person below 18 or in an area within 100 yards of educational institutions. If caught, they can be fined at least 200. 
 
 At the state-level consultation meeting, stakeholders wanted the age bar raised from 18 to 21. "If you can prevent someone from picking up a habit until 21 years, it is most likely they won't start it later," said Amit Yadav, senior consultant, World Health Organisation Framework Convention on Tobacco Control. Citing the 2016 Global Adult Tobacco Survey, he said one in every fifth person in Tamil Nadu is a tobacco user, with an almost equal number using it in chewable form. "While our tobacco cessation drives have pushed the government to take steps to check the sale of cigarettes, gutka and pan masala continues to be sold with impunity," said Yadav.
 
 This reflects in the Cancer Institute registry. "There has been a decrease in incidence of lung cancer among men but increase in mouth cancer," said R Swaminathan, head of epidemiology. The incidence rate of all tobacco-related cancer (incidence per lakh population) is 46.7% among men and 17.7% among women.
 
 Food safety officials said that despite action against vendors, gutka continued to enter the state through rail and road, with at least 1,500kg coming in daily. "Most manufacturers are based out of Kanpur, Pune and Delhi. There should be checks in the source states," said R Kathiravan, designated officer of the department. RPF officers said 103 seizures of gutka pan masala worth 56.83 lakh were made in TN last year. This year, in four months, there have been 23 seizures of the banned products worth 47.8 lakh. 
 
 Dr V Shanta, Cancer Institute executive chairman who has been taking on the tobacco industry for the last 60 years, said stringent laws were in place but the state refused to act. "This can happen only if there's a will."
 
 
