BENGALURU: A plastic surgeon, who had put in his papers over a year ago citing personal reasons, has been shamed in public by his former organization,  . 

 On Monday, it put out a newspaper advertisement stating he has been dismissed. The plastic surgeon, Dr  , said he will take legal action against the hospital authorities for defaming him.
 
 The public notice, which carried the doctor’s photograph, says he was being dismissed as “he had snatched the opportunities of other interested and service-minded plastic surgeons at the time of recruitment”. 
 
 Dr  , however, said he was the only person who had been interviewed by the hospital in 2014 and there was no question of snatching opportunities of others.
 
 The doctor had joined the hospital on October 30, 2014 as a lecturer and was promoted as assistant professor on November 19, 2016. He was drawing a monthly salary of nearly Rs 70,000. He quit on February 17, 2017 and served a month’s notice. The hospital, however, hadn’t accepted the resignation. 
 
 Dr Reddy expressed disappointment over the state of affairs in the government hospital. “You feel frustrated when you are talented and have to work in a government hospital. Things never go straight there,” he told TOI.
 
 The teaching hospital, an autonomous body, cited a governing council’s decision for his dismissal. Incidentally, the council recently gave the go-ahead for an orthopaedic surgeon’s resignation. 
 
 Hospital CEO G H  , however, said there are many orthopaedic surgeons in the hospital, but there was only one plastic surgeon, hence his service was essential. According to a governing council member, this candidate was chosen over others for the job, but by quitting, he had failed to live up to their expectations. 
 
 “It was a decision taken by the governing council. The hospital hadn’t accepted his resignation and he was sent notices repeatedly. But he didn’t respond to even one of them. Hence, the council decided to dismiss him from service and publish a paper notification with his photo. He quit during probation. It is the first time we have issued such a paper notification,” said Nagahanumaiah, a KAS officer. The institute has learnt that the dismissed doctor is currently working for private hospitals, the CEO said.
 
 
