It’s after 25 years that   and   are collaborating for a film. But RGV today is often accused of being a mere shadow of the maverick that he was when he directed a much younger Nag in the 90s. Is that playing on his mind, we wonder, as we wait to meet him at his office in Annapurna Studios Annexe. But as he walked in, full of energy, oozing confidence and flashing a bright smile, all our doubts were put to rest. “If anything, I am at peace...” says Nag, when asked if he has any pre-release jitters ahead of Officer, which releases today. “Working on RGV’s Officer was a journey to remember. we worked very hard and it was an enjoyable experience. We are happy with the result, and as a team, we are calm and confident,” added the actor, before settling down for heart-to-heart with Hyderabad Times. Excerpts:

 
 I don’t think Officer is a copy of any other film or a plagiarised version of somebody’s story because it is inspired by the real life story of KM  , an IPS officer from  . I don’t think Ramu needs to do a rip off or steal somebody’s story. If he really did what Jaya Kumar clams, or if the film is really a rip off of Taken, then the law is there to take care of it. The producers can come slap a lawsuit and take away the film (laughs). So many films have met that fate in the past. 
 
 
 
 It’s a completely hero-centric film about an upright police officer,  , who’s appointed as the chief of a SIT (Special Investigation Team) commissioned to investigate a reputed cop in Mumbai. On one side he is incorruptible and just cannot handle if anybody goes against the system. At the same time, he’s also a loving father of a 12-13-year-old girl. He shares a very special bond with her; in fact she’s like a mother to him and the duo take care of each other. The sincerity and intensity of the character is what appealed to me. 
 
 
 The story and my character of Shivaji suit the tagline. See, in extreme situations, when things go out of hand, a sincere cop has to take the law into his hands to ensure order prevails in the society. And in that process he becomes a law unto himself and also gets away doing a lot of illegal things. The character I play, Shivaji, is an ideal cop, the sort you won’t find in today’s time, but would like to see. 
 As far as the action sequences in the movie go, they will be very raw and gritty. Ramu’s films always look very real. if you don’t do it yourself and use doubles, then it won’t work. I did a lot of rehearsals for the action scenes. so, more than difficult, it was physically draining. I had body and muscle pains, scratches, all of that. We shot a lot in the summer heat. It was draining; it wasn’t easy, but it was very satisfying. 
 
 
 
 The sound effects in the film will stand out. RGV’s films are known for their sound — remember Shiva, Raatri or Bhoot? The editing is cutting edge too; RGV knows just where to cut a shot. 
 
 
 
 (Laughs) We are collaborating after a very long time and so, I wanted him to focus his energies on this film 
 completely and not get sidetracked by all the other things he does. After all, we have been friends for long; we meet and share a drink together 
 often. so, if we do a film together and if he doesn’t give a 100 per cent, it will upset me. See, you could be the best director or actor, but a film can still bomb at the box office if it’s not made sincerely. And it has happened many a times with many big directors and actors. I told him as much when he came to me to narrate the script. That’s when he wrote me a letter 
 asking me to kick him in his ‘beep’ if he doesn’t deliver. Well, to answer your question, now I can say without any doubt in my mind that he’s actually put in a sincere effort and given his 100 per cent. there’s not need to kick him now, i guess. 
 
 
 
 RGV and controversy go hand in hand (laughs). Well, that’s his life and that’s how he has been from the very beginning. may be his honesty is what made us good friends. As his friend, I feel, why change him? We shouldn’t change another person after we become friends with them; the idea is not to make everyone like you, you know? 
 
 
 I think I’m one of those actors who’s always addressed as ‘58-year-old Nagarjuna’. why the hell is it important to mention ‘58-year-old’? (laughs). I think they do this only to me... 
 ‘58-year-old actor has accepted another movie’, ‘58-year-old Nagarjuna is doing this or that...’ Why? Why can’t they just say ‘Nagarjuna’ or ‘actor Nagarjuna’. And then they say, ‘Oh, you look so young, you look so fit’. Well, yes I look young and fit because I take care of myself. Why bring my age into it. I officially request you all to stop talking about my age. (chuckles)
 
 
 
 (Laughs) I’ve been like this always. I’ve been working out for the past 30 years. it’s not that I’m some fitness freak, but I like exercising. I start my day by hitting the gym. I don’t follow any diet. I eat everything except gluten — I avoid bread, it’s toxic for your system. I think everyone should avoid eating bread. 
 
 
 
 
 
