KOLKATA: A Kolkata-bound   flight made an emergency landing at the city airport late on Saturday after suffering a hydraulic failure.

 Singapore Airlines flight SQ 516 landed at 10.28pm on Saturday but could not vacate runway 19L because of a hydraulic problem, which restricted the aircraft’s ability to manoeuvre and its normal functioning.
 
 As a result, around 200 passengers were stuck in the aircraft for nearly an hour on the runway. They were not able to get out till the snag was repaired and the aircraft was moved to an adjacent bay.
 
 Sajal Das, a passenger on the aircraft, said, “The flight touched down and stopped with a sudden jerk. We had to sit inside the plane for nearly an hour.”
 
 Another passenger, Abhijit Halder, said there was no communication from the crew members and it was only after getting down at the airport, that they realized that hydraulic oil had leaked, which prevented the aircraft from moving forward.
 
 In a statement, Singapore Airlines said, “Singapore Airlines flight SQ516, an airbus A330 operating from Singapore to Kolkata on 05 May 2018, encountered a technical fault during landing. All passengers disembarked safely. Engineers are currently servicing the aircraft. Singapore Airlines apologizes for the inconvenience caused.”
 
 In aeroplanes, hydraulics controls the movement of an aircraft in all four directions. In the event of a hydraulic failure, the pilots will lose the ability to control left or right. Hydraulic systems work on the principle that a force applied at a single point will be transmitted to another point using an incompressible fluid. This fluid is normally an oil and is defined as a “fluid which is not reduced in volume by an increase in pressure”.
 
 A basic system will comprise two pistons and an liquid-filled cylinder connecting them. In brief, when one of the pistons is pressed, the liquid moves through the cylinder and exerts the pressure on the other piston, which causes it to move. Hydraulic pressure is used to control aircraft movement. According to airline officials, there are at least two back-ups for faulty hydraulic pressure systems.
 
 On Saturday, the flight had started from the Changi airport in Singapore around 9pm and landed at   around 10.30pm. However, the flight could not vacate runway 19L due the hydraulic problem.
 
 “Immediately, an alternate runway — 19R-01L — was made available. This prevented the operations of other flights from being affected. The runway was handed over back for normal operations after being vacated and properly cleaned of the hydraulic leakage. Runway 19L-01R was also inspected thoroughly. The main runway was operational again at 11.42pm,” said a senior airport official.
 
