AHMEDABAD: Apprehensive of possible   by groups staunchly against  , the Gujarat government, which had banned the film’s release in the state, said it will first study the apex court’s order and then decide on the necessary action. The film has also been banned by the governments of Rajasthan, MP and Haryana.

 Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS, home and law, Gujarat, said, “We had issued notifications banning the film twice in Gujarat, to maintain law and order in the state. It has distorted historical facts due to which the Kshatriya samaj and other organizations have taken offence.
 
 
  AHMEDABAD: Apprehensive of possible law and order disruption by groups staunchly against release of the film  , the Gujarat government, which had banned the film’s release in the state, said it will first study the apex court’s order and then decide on the necessary action. The film has also been banned by the governments of Rajasthan, MP and Haryana.
 
 Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS, home and law, Gujarat, said, “We had issued notifications banning the film twice in Gujarat, to maintain law and order in the state. It has distorted historical facts due to which the Kshatriya samaj and other organizations have taken offence.
 
 “As a party in the SC, we strongly argued in favour of the ban, citing that its release can create major law and order problems. However, the   stayed the ban and allowed its release due to Congress leader Kapil Sibal. We will examine the order and take steps that are necessary.
 
 “We told the SC that the film can create a major law and order problem and the ban must be continued. We will examine the order of the SC and take the necessary steps. We have tasked people with maintaining peace and law and order,” Jadeja said.
 
 Multiplex owners across Gujarat welcomed the SC verdict, but expressed anxiety about threats to public safety and property from protesters. “Unless safety of people and our property is assured, we will not release Padmaavat. In accordance with SC order, the government must provide adequate security,” said Manubhai Patel, president, Multiplex Owners Association – Gujarat.
 
 In fact, some theatre owners are thinking of getting police protection. “We will seek police protection. Only upon guarantee of safety of moviegoers will we release Padmaavat,” said Sanjay Pandya, manager of a Surat-based theatre
 
 Gujarat’s in-charge DGP Pramod Kumar, said, “Though no multiplex owner has yet approached police for bandobast over Padmaavat release, we will take action to ensure that peace is not disturbed. If multiplex owners seek police protection, we will look into it.”
 
 City police commissioner A K Singh, said, “If theatre owners seek protection, they will be provided cover. Our priority will be to maintain the rule of law,” said Singh.
 
 Senior police officials said they are waiting for the state government’s official stand on the matter.
 
  Raj Shekhawat, president – Gujarat, SRRKS said, “Our protests will continue. We will take to non-democratic means if needed to stay the film’s release. We are ready to face any consequences and go to jail too.”
 
 
