BENGALURU: The newly-installed swanky and colourful cycle stands on Church Street pavements have spurred cyclists in Bengaluru to ask for more such facilities at public places and transport hubs across the city.

  
 Artand, a private firm that installed 28 units of these minimalist and modern design cycle stands that can secure 56 cycles free of cost, incurred an expenditure of nearly Rs 10 lakh. The firm is now planning to generate revenue by inviting advertisements at these stands.
 
 “Church Street attracts a large number of people, particularly youngsters and foreigners. So we wanted to make these stands look aesthetically pleasing and meet global standards, at the same time encouraging the cycling community,” said Artand CEO Susheel Nair.
 
 “We’ve used many motifs like rock-paper-scissors, infinity loop and chess themes to design the cycle stands. In the chess theme, you won’t find a king but only a queen, subtly reminding you that the street is safe for women. The infinity-loop design symbolizes cycling as a healthy alternative. We also have two stands based on the vintage-cyclist theme installed in front of the Metro station, symbolizing the coexistence of Metro trains and cycles, both depicting zeroemission mobility,” said Nair.
 
 Sathya Sankaran, cyclist and member of Citizens For Sustainability (CiFoS), said: “Art-based cycle stands on Church Street encourage people to use cycles. They also symbolize the respect given to cyclists.”
 
 “NGO Praja RAAG had provided the city’s first cycle stand in Cubbon Park about five years ago. We installed nearly 30 units, but many of them are now damaged. Sanjaynagar will get the maximum number of cycle stands with 250 units; 20 of them have already been installed. But the ones in Church Street are the first art-based cycle stands in the city,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 At Metro stations across the city, cycles can be parked at Rs 1per hour and Rs 10 for the entire day. However, the absence of cycle stands often deters owners of expensive bicycles from parking due to the fear of theft.
 
  (BMRCL) managing director Mahendra Jain said they will soon set up cycle stands in Metro stations based on the availability of space. BMRCL allows people to carry foldable cycles that fit through the baggage scanner on trains during non-peak hours.
 
 In 2014,   installed free cycle stands in some TTMCs (traffic and transit management centres) in  , ITPL and Yeshwantpur to encourage people who commute on bicycles to use public transport. It also decided to introduce cycle racks on its   buses. However, failed expansion plans led to an early death of these initiatives.
 
 A senior BMTC official said they are in talks with several startups to provide first and last-mile connectivity to passengers. “We will set up cycle stands in all important bus terminals so that commuters don’t have to worry about safety,” an official said.
 
 
 
