NAGPUR: Three audio-clips of heated conversations between dreaded gangster Maroti Nuwah and Pawan Moryani, in possession of TOI, have brought to fore the manner in which the alleged anti-social elements have been operating without fear of law and risking the socio-economic fabric of the city where government is wanting to attract major investments. There is also a looming danger of a gangwar breaking out or series of murders in the city following the duel. 

 In the conversations, in which Moryani is heard repeatedly using cuss words targeting Nuwah, also brings to the fore how illegal activities, extortions, protections sought by racketeers from goons are colurking just under the surface and threatening to ruin city’s future growth. 
 
 The clips were apparently recorded on the phone of Nuwah whom Moryani had called up five times between 3.30 am and 3.45 am on January 24. Following a complaint from Nuwah, an offence of criminal intimidation and threatening has been registered against Moryani and his accomplice Karim Lala. Nuwah too is having several offences against him including murders. He was acquitted in   murder case. 
 
 Moryani walked out of jail only a few days back after being nabbed by   police for his alleged role in attack on crime branch squad as a part of Dobinagar’s Ippa gang who are yet to be arrested and are also learnt to be enjoying support from a section of police. Lala, a former murder accused, was booked for rioting and ransacking shops and attacking his rivals at   chowk during a group clash in December last year. In the latest case, Lala and Moryani are yet to be arrested. 
 
 Nuwah seemed to have earned wrath of Moryani for having called up one Jeetu Lalwani in Jaripatka who had lost around Rs 1.5 lakh in Ludo game. Sources claimed a notorious gambler had tkaen Nuwah’s help to make Lalwani cough up the amount. Lalwani, whom a   police described as ‘trader’, sought protection from Moryani. Moryani was more upset because Nuwah had threatened someone for extortion in Jaripatka, a place Moryani considers his turf.
 
 Sources in Jaripatka claimed several racketeers from north Nagpur, especially from Sindhi community, seemed to be seeking protection from Moryani who had been supporting Ippa gang before turning against them now. Parshuram Batra, alias Parsa, who earlier had been acting as shield for Sindhis in Jaripatka, was killed in the same locality in broad daylight in the past. 
 
 Moryani, once known to be a trusted aide of Ippa, his brothers Naushad, Irshad and the rest of the gang, was heard blaming Nuwah for implicating him in a false case by misleading cops. The calls apparently were made from a tavern where Lala too was present, Moryani also accuses Nuwah of framing him in a case along with Ippa and others. He is also heard claiming Nuwah was extending his support to   and Irshad for staying underground and continue their activities as there is an offence registered against them for attacking crime branch cops on December 25. 
 
 Moryani is also heard issuing grave threats through Nuwah to gangster   who is common enemy of him and Lala now. Moryani is heard blaming Nuwah for helping Ippa and his gang remain underground. Moryani is heard threatening Nuwah to disclose before police his conspiracies of murders and other plans apart from his support to Ippa gang.
 
 Senior PI of Nandanvan police station Manik Nalawade said cops were looking for Moryani and Lala. “Once the accused are arrested, we will know the reason behind the threat call,” he said. 
 
 
