KOCHI: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kochi on Saturday awarded seven years rigorous imprisonment (RI) to Yasmeen Mohammed Zahid, 30, who hails from Muroul village in Sitamarhi in Bihar, the first verdict in a case related to the   (IS) in Kerala. The case pertains to the alleged recruitment and anti-national activities of 14 persons from Kasaragod district, who along with their families left India between May and July, 2016 and reportedly joined the IS in  .

 According to the NIA probe, the principal accused   – Yasmeen’s mentor and husband -- had recruited the other accused persons in this case, including Yasmeen, by conducting classes at Kasaragod and other places in support of IS and its ideology of violent jihad.
 
 The court observed that there was overwhelming evidence to prove the association of Rashid and Yasmeen in the case. “In this case, evidence shows that Yasmeen and first accused Abdulla Abul Rashid had an inclination to join IS, and Rashid with others physically joined IS by reaching Afghanistan,” judge S Santhosh Kumar said in the verdict. Yasmeen was intercepted at Delhi’s international airport on July 30, 2016 while she was trying to leave India for Kabul with the intention of joining her husband and co-conspirator Rashid in IS-controlled territory in Nangarhar province of Afghanistan.
 
 Yasmeen was convicted under section 120 B of IPC, section 125 (waging war against any Asiatic power in alliance with Government of India) and also fined Rs 25,000. Rigorous imprisonment of seven years each was granted to her under sections 38, 39, 40 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The sentences would run concurrently and the convict was transferred to Viyyur central prison. “Considering the nature and circumstances of the case, the court doesn't find any reason to invoke Probation of Offenders Act. Though at the time of arrest the son of the accused was with her, now he is in the custody of his father (Yasmeen’s first husband). However, considering the fact that the accused is a lady aged about 30 years, a lenient view is taken,” the judgment said.
 
 Yasmeen had attended secret classes conducted by Rashid which she admitted to her sister Jasmin. She also collected material regarding the life of women in IS, the court pointed out in its order. The judge referred to a recent verdict by a court in Iraq which awarded death sentence to 16 women who had joined IS and were later arrested. NIA prosecutor Arjun Amabalapatta, while seeking maximum punishment for the accused, submitted before the court that IS has become a global phenomenon. “The truth will come out soon. I believe in the Indian constitution. I am Indian and I am not a part of ISIS. I respect the country and I am innocent,” Yasmeen said while speaking briefly to reporters in the court premises.
 
 There were 15 accused in the case originally but since the other accused are absconding, the case was split. The other accused, against whom red corner notices have been served by Interpol, are: Sonia Sebastian, Mohammed Sajid Kuthirummal, Murshid Mohammed T K, Muhammad Marwan Becker, Hafesudheen Theke Koleth, Firoshkhan MTP, Shamsiya Kuriya, Ashfak Majeed Kallukettiyapurayil, Mohammed Manzad, Dr Ijas, Raffeala, Shihas and Ajmala.
 
 The judge called for steps to be taken to protect and assist witnesses to depose without fear and appreciated a woman jail officer who resisted threats and deposed before the court. Trial in the case commenced on November 9, 2017 and the prosecution examined 52 witnesses while the defence examined one witness. A total of 115 documents and 29 material objects were exhibited.
 
 
