BENGALURU: The city’s two wheeler population has touched a whopping 50 lakh. The   report shows the number of twowheelers registered in Bengaluru is 50.1lakh till November 2017, and they constitute 69% of the total vehicle population (72.3 lakh).

 Bengaluru is home to the second-most number of twowheelers in the country, after New Delhi (67.07 lakh bikes, till March 2017).
 
 
 As per data available, the figures for some major cities are: Chennai (36.45 lakh in 2015), Hyderabad (36.24 lakh till October 2016), Pune (24.96 lakh till March 2017) and Mumbai (17.71lakh till March 2017).
 
 Experts attribute the rise in number of two-wheelers to the poor and unreliable   system, which is also the costliest in the country.
  
  
  
 
 Accidents involving twowheelers are higher than other vehicles; yet,  , easy availability of loans, ease of parking and fuel efficiency have turned bikes, scooters and mopeds into the most favoured mode of commute in the city.
 
 The biggest worry of urban planners, however, is ambitious two-wheeler users making a likely shift to cars in the future, clogging the city roads further. At present, the city has 13 lakh cars.
 
 
 
 
 Transport department officialssaidthe actual number of two-wheelers in the city would be higher as vehicles registered outsideBengaluru and entering the city have not been taken into account. Also, the department doesn’t have records of the number of twowheelers not in use now.
 
 Additional commissioner of police (traffic) R Hithendra said: “Nearly 60% of fatal accidents involve twowheelers, either causing them or affected by them. They’re the most dangerous vehicles on city roads.”
 
 WhiletheBMTCdaily ridership is stagnant around 50 lakh and Namma Metro’s is nearly 4 lakh, public transport system in the city has a long way to go.
 
 Lekha Adavi of Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike, an NGO campaigning for better bus services, said: “We conducted a study last year and found that riding a two-wheeler is cheaper than travelling in buses”.
 
 She said the government should impose hefty taxes on private vehicles and provide incentives to public transport by reducing fares and doubling the number of buses. “Many bus passengers have shifted to twowheelers since they’re affordable and cheaper than buses. The government should also encourage the use of public transport by providing   for buses,” she added.
 
