12.15 am, Howrah Station: Uttam Sarkar steps out of the station warily knowing it is too late for him to hire a pre-paid cab. His cell battery has also drained out and he can’t book an app cab. He is resigned to getting fleeced by taxi touts when he spots an air-conditioned   parked outside the station. It is bound for the airport, near his Dum Dum Gorabazar destination.

 12.30 am, Girish Park: Priya Dutta is at the end of her wits trying to explain her location to an app cab driver. She has called him thrice in 10 minutes but there is no sign of the cab. It is then that a Howrah-Airport AC bus comes to a halt in front of her and the mechanised doors open. She cranes her neck to check if there are passengers inside. Seeing that there are, she hops on and cancels the app cab ride to Baguiati.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Kolkata may not yet be the city that never sleeps but its first night bus service may be just the excuse it has been looking for to become one.
 
 TOI took a ride on NS1, an AC Volvo bus service between Howrah and the airport, a day after the government reintroduced night buses in Kolkata. It is the first among a fleet of 23 buses that will operate on 14 routes between 11pm and 5.30am.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Friday’s journey started with Dum Dum resident Sarkar taking a window seat as the bus’s sole passenger when it pulled out of Howrah. He thought he would have the entire bus to himself but he was proved wrong in a minute; a group of 25 young men and women hopped on from the foot of Howrah Bridge. 
 
 “The taxis were demanding Rs 600 for a ride to Lake Town. We never expected a bus at this hour,”   said. He runs a catering business and was returning home with his team from a wedding venue in Liluah.
 
 Mullick’s employee, Prantik Das, struck up a conversation with conductor Nimai Charan Das, noting down the timings and the routes. “We finish rather late every night and have great difficulty returning home. This service is a boon for us,” the passenger said.
 
 Crossing the Howrah Bridge, the bus was about to turn into Brabourne Road when it jerked to a halt. The driver was forced to hit the brake not for a passenger but guard rails positioned on the road. The space between them was too narrow to allow the bus to manoeuvre. “We forgot about the night bus service,” a traffic constable said as he shifted the rails.
 
 The bus picked up speed along a stretch of Kolkata that barely moves during the day as it sped past people asleep on the footpath, rag pickers chasing away a pack of dogs and a couple of inebriated men who signalled the bus down and then asked whether it was headed for Howrah. “This is one problem of driving at night. There are too many people who are high and happy,” driver Sajal Manna said.
 
 Manna saw a woman at Girish Park and slowed down. She seemed anxious for a ride. He stopped. The woman hesitated for a moment before hopping on. That was Dutta, an event manager.
 
 The bus drove along Vivekananda Road, Maniktala and Ultadanga to hit VIP Road. As it stopped near the Big Ben replica at Lake Town to drop the catering staff, a man in his 40s ran frantically up to the gate. “When did the night service start?” he asked. He had thought he would have to walk till Baguiati when the bus arrived.
 
 The bus had to stop again twice, at Keshtopur and Baguiati, this time to oblige Bidhannagar cops who took photographs of the bus and noted down the time and the number of passengers. One of them even checked the luggage for suspicious items. “This exercise is for passenger safety,” explained an officer.
 
 The journey ended as the bus entered the airport. At 12.58am, it was the only vehicle in sight. 
 
 
