BHOPAL: A WhatsApp video of a retired   of Nalanda school abandoned on the   of state stirred up students and alumni who rushed him to a shelter home. The teacher,   who taught students in the 1990s was found sleeping on a footpath outside a housing society in the state capital on Saturday.

 As his video went viral and students posted it on the school group.
 
 Zopey’s children live in other cities and his sister lived in the USA and his colleagues at the school remember him hailing from a well-to do family.
 
 “I was shocked after watching the video. He was in a very bad condition,” said one his students Dhirendra Yadav, who is a senior officer in a finance company.
 
 A student living in Mumbai sent his uncle for help. “I am still not able to believe that he is the same teacher who taught us physics in school. He was a brilliant teacher. I spoke to my uncle and he along with others rushed to help Zopey,” Anubhav Dubey, a student told TOI from Mumbai.
 
 His uncle Jitendra Upadhyay, who is also a former student of Nalanda, attended to Zopey. “We were shocked to see his condition. He was not able to tell us exactly as what happened to him. He was sitting on the footpath in Katara Hills area,” said Jitendra.
 
 Later, Jitendra took him to a shelter home on Kolar road. When TOI talked to Zopey and tried to inquire about his family he said, “I went to meet my sister who is living in USA long ago. My daughters are in Indore,” said Zopey. However, he was not able to provide contact numbers of his family members.
 
 Meanwhile, ex-students of the school have launched search about his family members. “We all are in shock. He is from a very rich family and owned a school also, but where no one knows. We will try to contact his family and send him back to them,” said stock broker Shishir Dubey also Zopey’s former student.
 
 “We want him to go back to his family but when I do not know,” said civil contractor Dharmendra Gurjar, another ex-student.
 
 His colleague during his teaching tenure in school, Rajesh Mishra a mathematics teacher said, “For past four-five years he was not in touch with anyone. I am also shocked after knowing about his present condition.”
 
