HYDERABAD: Commuters, who frequent the road at Indira Nagar Bus Stop near the  , have a tough time making it through this stretch without having to stop innumerable times. 

 While many people have demanded the relocation of the bus bay to ease traffic, the problem has not yet been addressed. Passengers waiting for buses are often on the road hindering traffic.
 
 "If the bus bay is relocated, a lot of commuters will be relieved. Buses occupy a major part of the road resulting in traffic bottlenecks. I requested authorities to relocate the bus bay a month ago, but in vain," said  , a techie from the city who uses the road frequently.
 
 A lack of parking space on both sides of the road is another reason adding to people's woes. The road has a plethora of shops on both sides and commuters allege that owners as well customers park their vehicles further reducing road space.
 
 "There is no marking to differentiate between the road and   Authorities should put up no-parking boards to ensure free flow of traffic," said Harinath N, who uses the road regularly.
 
 The road which is over 120ft wide falls under the roads and building (R&B) department and the bus bay is the responsibility of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC).
 
 According to officials of R&B department, the road is already wide, but a lot of people apart from the shop owners have been parking their vehicles resulting in a space crunch.
 
 "The road is already a six lane one so there is no need to widen it. As this lies at the main junction a lot of people park their vehicles resulting in space crunch," said Shaik Firoz, assistant executive engineer for R&B department.
 
 GHMC officials for their part say they have not received any requests for the shifting of the bus bay. "I did not receive any grievance pertaining to bus bay in Indira Nagar, Gachibowli. Once I get the representation I will take appropriate action," said Adwait Kumar Singh, GHMC additional commissioner, legal department.
 
  Did you have a bad experience on the road today, or stuck in a jam for long ? And if you live in an area which needs attention, please write about your experience to traffictoireaders@gmail.com and we will take it up with the authorities. 
 
