CHANDIGARH: After reorganisation of   in 1966 as a Sikh majority state by separating territories of   and  , the Punjab government came up with its new industrial policy in December 1966. Under the policy,   was well within state government’s focus as it came up with a scheme in 1967 under the 4th Five Year Plan to establish an industrial focal point at Mohali and at  , Dhandari, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Batala.

 Thereafter, the state government constituted the Punjab State Electronics Development and Production Corporation Limited (PSEDPCL) in March 1976 and the corporation with an aim to develop Mohali as an electronic hub established the   (ELTOP) in Phase VIII of Mohali.
 
 However, senior officials of the Punjab industries department opine that most of the major electronics and telecommunication manufacturers in Mohali producing C-DOT switching products like rural automatic exchanges (RAXs) and main automatic exchanges (MAXs) did not keep abreast of the changing technological trends in the market. They feel with the mobile revolution most of the C-DOT licensed manufacturers found themselves with products which had a sharply declining demand in the Indian telecom market. Other electronic manufacturers had made heavy investments in Pager technology-based products, which was quickly replaced by mobile phone technology.
 
 The rest of the industrial hubs of Punjab like Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Mandi Gobindgarh had diverse industries that were not affected by the technology migration trends in the electronics and telecom market.
 
 
 
 
 With the start of information technology era in 2002, PSEDPCL was rechristened as Punjab Information and Communication Technology Corporation Limited ( ) to have a dedicated approach of promoting information technology and e-governance projects. However, the official figures speak for themselves as Mohali could not achieve expected results in the field of IT and ITES investment as compared to other cities across the country.
 
 However, the state government is now taking initiatives to catch up and the area around Mohali is under plan for development as an IT Investment Region (ITIR) as per the Central government scheme for promotion of IT, ITES, electronics and knowledge sector.
 
 Now to promote electronic manufacturing in Mohali, the state government plans to come up with an electronics manufacturing park. The industries department has a proposal to set up electronics system design and manufacturing sector (ESDM) ‘Greenfield Cluster’ for which initially 40 acres of land has been earmarked in Mohali IT city. At the same time, Mohali has been declared as an ‘ESDM Brownfield Electronic Cluster’ for garnering benefits under the Modified Special Incentive Package Scheme (M-SIPS) in the electronic systems design and manufacturing sector by the Central government. The state is also going to provide common facility centres that would include component testing, electromagnetic compatibility laboratory, innovation and research centres.
 
 The Punjab government is also planning to earmark another 200 acres for IT and ESDM park at the manufacturing cluster at Rajpura, in close proximity of Mohali.
 
