While most of us take refuge from the scorching sun, campaigning politicians brave the heat and dust in their desperate effort to win over voters. Many of them on the wrong side of 50 are on the road for 10-12 hours a day. And, irrespective of their fitness levels, almost all say their supporters are the secret of their energy.

 
 Over the past month, sitting MLA Vasu from Chamaraja constituency in   has been campaigning for nearly seven hours every day. He said, "For the past 35 years, I've been walking regularly to Chamundi Hill, Kukkarahalli Lake and Cheluvamba Park. On average, I walk about 10 km every day. Mysuru is cooler than some other places and therefore I don't face much difficulty."
 
 "Exercise keeps me lively and cheerful through the day," says   candidate from Bantwal constituency  .
 
 The 65-year-old veteran is keeping fit to contest for the eighth time. His residence at Kallige in Bantwal taluk has a gym. He makes it a point to exercise in the morning for at least two hours every day.
 
 Over seven years, he has lost 30kg and tips the scale at 100kg. "While I exercise and do yoga, naturopathy and physiotherapy keep me fit. Regular exercise keeps me fit physically and mentally," Rai said.
 
 His trainer Oswald Govias helps him work out and changed his lifestyle. "Earlier, I was under medication for diabetes, but due to regular exercise, my blood sugar level is under control. I prefer vegetarian food but do have non-veg food occasionally at functions," Rai said.
 
 Elsewhere,  , rebel JD(S) candidate from Chamaraja constituency, who started campaigning four months ago, has lost over 7kg. "Thanks to my supporters, I've never felt the strain."
 
 He adds: "I have food at my supporters' homes. If I get rice and sambar, it's enough for me. I try to have a lot of water."
 
 Narasimharaja constituency JD(S) candidate Abdul Azeez (Abdulla) says he campaigns for nearly 15km every day. "When our supporters walk, why can't we?" He prefers to have food cooked at home rather than eat out.
 
 KS Rangappa, JD(S) candidate from Chamaraja constituency said: "I've been a regular walker for the past 40 years and this has helped me during campaigning. My routine starts at 7am and I come back home only after 11pm."
 
 Kaup MLA and former minister Vinay Kumar Sorake is undaunted by the hot coastal summer. The 63-year-old veteran says yoga and regular walks keep him fit. "Recently, I switched to a vegetarian diet. I do yoga, but stopped walking in the morning as the campaign walks more than make up for it. I make sure I take a lot of liquids during campaigns," he says.
 
 While 49-year-old Udupi MLA and minister for fisheries, sports and youth empowerment Pramod Madhwaraj lives up to one of portfolios - sports. "I've been running around the place for the past seven years. As for food, I prefer a liquid diet these days," says Pramod.
 
 For Mangaluru MLA UT Khader, minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs keeping a cool mind keeps him going. "I sleep around 3am and wake up at 4.45am for prayers go for a walk, and munch on dry fruits (grapes, almonds, etc) soaked in water, have a lot of liq uids, light lunch and no dinner," Khader adds.
 
 (Inputs from R Uday Kumar Ravi Posavanike & Kevin Mendonca)
 
