CHANDIGARH: The   and   high court on Friday made it clear that if the Haryana   failed to submit its report of probe into the siphoning of funds, by showing an additional four lakh students in various state-run schools, by March 16, its director should appear before it.

 A division bench comprising Justice   and Justice H S   passed these orders after the vigilance bureau (VB) failed to submit any status report of inquiry in the case. Giving last opportunity to the bureau, the bench adjourned the case to March 16.
 
 Visibly upset over the failure of bureau in filing the status report, the bench observed in the open court that "the VB director should appear in person on the next date, if no report is prepared by the bureau".
 
 Earlier on August 4, 2017, the bureau had informed the HC that it had formally started its probe in the case with its   superintendent of police (SP)   as the chief inquiry officer. 
 
 A formal inquiry into the issue was registered on May 12, 2017, at the Rohtak office of VB after receiving April 5, 2017, directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 The bureau had also started collecting the data from the district education offices and the district elementary education offices of various district.
 
 When the matter was heard by the HC on August 4, 2017, the state government had also assured to provide all the relevant data from the education department to the bureau within a week. 
 
 On this, the HC had adjourned the case for September 15, to know the further progress of the case. However, for the last four hearings of the case, the state had failed to submit any interim report on the issue.
 
 The matter related to alleged fake admissions in the state run schools was first discussed in May 2016 before the HC during the hearing of a case related to surplus teachers in the state.
 
 Certain reports emerged that as against enrolment of 22 lakh students in government schools in different classes, only 18 lakh students were found by the department. The remaining four lakh admissions were found fake. Allegations are that these four lakh admissions were shown in the record to get funds received under various schemes of the government.
 
 Hearing about the alleged irregularities, the HC on May 13, 2016, had asked the state to conduct inquiry in the issue by appointing a senior officer. The department, however, had not appointed any officer till March 16, 2017, after which the HC had summoned additional chief secretary (school education) to appear in person to explain the delay in probe.
 
 
