By: Alok Ramsisaria

 When we were a 20-person company doing fairly well,  , the founder of   tractors, challenged me to create a 200-person organization. Later, when we doubled and were struggling for sales,  , CEO of Smart-Data, and the then vice-president of TiE-Chandigarh, spent an hour with my wife (my co-founder) and me, and told us how he solved problems in HR and sales long time ago.
 
 Challenges and practical advice from my many mentors at TiE –   at   and JB Singh at   to name a few — have helped us in our journey to few hundred people, with offices in the US.
 
 At TiE, we believe mentoring is the raison d’être of our group. When you have a challenge, speaking to someone who has solved a similar one at your size can make the difference between make and break. A good mentor will challenge you to have bigger goals. Sometimes, a mentor can open doors; lots of times, a mentor provides examples of how they did it; and few times, lend that shoulder for you to vent. Our membership structure, too, is set up to promote mentoring – charter members pay significant fees and spare time and energy to provide mentorship to associate members.
 
 Mentoring is a two-way street and mentors, too, look to learn from the experience. Lots of times, mentoring a startup forces them to reexamine their assumptions. In Chandigarh region, TiE runs one of the largest volunteer networks for formal and informal mentoring. As part of our formal mentoring programmes, we conduct mentor matchups where we invite mentees and mentors to mention their interests, and match and track the engagement.
 
 At TiE events, there is a larger opportunity for informal mentoring, we focus on topics of interest, like scaling sales, intellectual property rights, technology, hiring and retention.
 
 A number of these activities converge at TiECON Chandigarh, an annual conference with about 1,000 attendees where we get together startups, funding agencies, and inspirational speakers who can inspire entrepreneurs, would-be entrepreneurs, and students from the region.
 
 This year, TiECON 2018 will be held on 8-9th March at ISB, Mohali.
 
 In larger cities across India – TiE Chapters probably provide the most organized mentoring platforms. Usually, angels and VCs provide mentoring; however, this is not free. Locally, organizations like Morpheus and Chandigarh Angel Network (CAN) too offer mentoring, and some professional service organizations in larger cities have outreach in Chandigarh.
 
 Chandigarh has a blessed entrepreneurial culture, and has many people who are pioneers in different ways. This includes people who have chosen to retire in the region after long, successful careers. However, we tend to look outside the region rather than locally. Similarly, we are seeing the emergence of paid-mentoring programmes, where professional mentors help an entrepreneur find answers they seek. However, we feel the best mentor is the guy who solves his entrepreneurial challenges most recently – and there doesn’t need to be only one – most successful entrepreneurs have a number of mentors.
 
 At TiE Chandigarh, we provide 3-4 networking opportunities every month for our charter members and associate members to mingle and setup formal and informal mentoring relationships to grow their ventures. Not just local mentors, TiE members can tap into 6,000-plus charter members to find advice from people who are thought-leaders in their space. And TiECON 2018 represents a celebration of entrepreneurship connecting local entrepreneurs to global thought leaders.
 
 (The author is CEO of Grazitti Interactive and president of TiE-Chandigarh)
 
 
