AHMEDABAD: A crisis in the Gujarat government was defused by the   after deputy chief minister   was assigned the finance department along with five other ministerial portfolios on Sunday. Patel officially took charge at the Sachivalaya on Sunday morning. The finance department had earlier been given to Saurabh Patel. Now, Saurabh Patel is the only minister in the cabinet with just one department - energy. 

 Nitin Patel had refused to assume charge after taking oath on December 28 to show displeasure at being divested of finance and urban development portfolios, which he held in the previous   cabinet. Early on Sunday, the crisis ebbed after BJP national president Amit Shah called Nitin Patel at 7.30am and assured him of portfolio allocation in line with his "demand", which "kept his respect intact" and safeguarded his number two position in the government. 
 
 Nitin Patel said, "Chief minister Vijay Rupani has already informed governor O P Kohli of the new allotment."
 
 
 
 Bringing all speculations to an end about his reaction to portfolio allocations, deputy chief minister Nitin Patel joined office on Sunday. Later, he drove down to Mehsana where hundreds of supporters welcomed him by bursting crackers at his   office. Patidar groups had spontenously come out in his favour, offering their support to thesenior Patidar leader.
 
 After addressing reporters who had gathered at his residencein Memnagar area, Patel drove straight to Gandhinagar to take charge. Regardless of it being a Sunday, his office staff was there to greethim at Swarnim Sankul. Former speaker Ramanlal Vora was also there to receive Patel, though no other BJP stalwart or minister couldbeseen at thesecretariat. Patel officially took charge of his department at about 11.39am in Gandhinagar.
 
 Patel performed puja in his chamber and then completed the formality of taking charge of his departments. Speaking to reporters, he said, “After the swearing-in ceremony, I had begun working in the interest of the people. On Day 1, after the swearing-in I had held a review meeting with the secretaries over the purchase of groundnut at minimum support price. The first thing I did was to announce buying groundnut crop and ensure payment of arrears tothefarmers.”
 
 Patel added, “Our ministers have already taken charge and the government will now work in the interest of the people of Gujarat from Monday. Wewilltry and live uptothe aspirations and expectations of the people.” Patelwas swornin on December 26. He said that the peopleof Gujarat had voted for development and had given their mandatetotheBJPtostay in power for the next five years. Patel once again thanked the party high command for giving him a portfolio which suits the deputy chief minister.
 
 He said that he had devoted himself to the service of 6.50 crore people of Gujarat reciprocating the confidence people reposedin the BJP.
 
 
 
 
 In an open letter to DyCM Nitin Patel, PAAS leader   said if things continue as they are, “After 2019, you will remain just the tourism minister.” Hardik wrote he was a well-wisher ‘nephew’ of the DyCM. Asking the DyCM to “Fight against injustice and throw BJP leaders out of power,” Hardik reminded Nitin, “CM Vijay Rupani can’t take even a single step without you.” Even though the deputy CM had joined office on Sunday burying his discontent over portfolio allocations, Hardik didn’t let go of the issue and tried to add fuel to fire by saying in his letter that even though Nitin had not supported the Patidar quota agitation, Hardik and his followers will support him for his prestige. TNN
 
