HYDERABAD: In a move that could soon bring down the travel time to   airport, the state government on Sunday issued orders to establish a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for construction of a high speed   service to the airport.

 The SPV — named Hyderabad Airport Metro Ltd — will be headed by chief secretary SK Joshi as chairman and Hyderabad   Limited (HMRL) managing director   as the MD.
 
 
  
 The SPV is meant to plan, build, maintain and operate the Metro Rail and other mass transit connectivity to the airport in Hyderabad and other cities in Telangana, the government order said. It will also oversee the development of townships along the new Metro corridor.
 
 “In light of the success and good response to the first phase of the Hyderabad Metro Rail project, the government felt that the airport corridor from Biodiversity Park to Shamshabad airport, with extension of Corridor III from   to Biodiversity Park, is an immediately priority. The Metro connectivity to the airport will significantly boost the image of Hyderabad as a global destination,” reads the order.
 
 The SPV will also carry out planning, designing, coordination and monitoring of integrated townships, shopping malls, commercial complexes and other infrastructure facilities and will look at ways to decongest the city and undertake transit-oriented development.
 
 Hyderabad Metro has been mired in controversies, with multiple deadlines being missed by construction major   and Toubro (L&T) and traders protesting against the acquisition of land in the Old City. Following Phase I of the project being launched in the city last November (Miyapur-Ameerpet and Ameerpet-Nagole stretches), the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited (DMRCL) was roped in to prepare the preliminary project report (PPR) and detailed project report (DPR) for Phase 2. The DMRCL has submitted its report along with HMRL submitting a proposal to form the SPV, which was given a the go-ahead on Sunday.
 
 The SPV will be jointly promoted by HMRL with 51% share and the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) with 49% share. The   will be incorporated with an authorized share capital of Rs100 lakh divided into 10 lakh equity shares of Rs 10 each.
 
