Even though the government has taken multiple steps to train medical aspirants to increase the number of government school students entering medical colleges, most of the trained students said they could answer hardly half the questions in the NEET.

 “We managed to answer the biology part of the question paper, but we could not even figure out half the questions in physics and chemistry, said R  , a medical aspirant from a government school in Erode who had taken the examination in Coimbatore. The student could answer only 20% of the questions.
 
 
 “Most of the questions in physics were so complicated,” said  , another government school student from Coimbatore. If only they had got a little more time to prepare and revise, they would have done better, he said.
 
 Even though they were given multiple study material and had teachers to explain the concepts in detail, the students said they received everything only at the last minute. Neither the teachers had time to teach all the concepts nor the students had sufficient time to prepare and revise, they added.
 
 Another government school student, S Bharathi said it was difficult for them as they had studied the same concepts both in NCERT and state board syllabus, but in different methods. The training programme would be useful for students next year, but it was not helpful for us, she said, but added that it was not a total waste of time and energy because they could answer the few questions only because of the training.
 
 “My aim to become doctor has turned into a dream,” said Dhanushree said. “The training has only prevented us from sitting idle,” she said.
 
 The students said they will have start applying for other courses as they have lost hope of entering medical colleges. While Bharathi is thinking of applying for agriculture-related courses in the   (TNAU), Dhanushree said she would apply for engineering.
 
 At Gobichettipalayam in Erode district, state school education minister K A   told reporters that many students who were imparted free NEET coaching were not able to grasp subjects since they were taught through video conferencing.
 
  said the government would improve the teaching methodology from the current year. “Though 72,000 students had applied for the coaching, only 8,600 got fullfledged training. Among these, 3,154 students were chosen for residential training,’’ he said.
 
 Sengottaiyan said the government planned to intensify the coaching. NEET aspirants would be trained for one hour every day and three hours daily during weekends. “The government will train 50,000 students this year. Of them, 10,000 best performing students would be selected for residential coaching,’’ he said.
 
