JAIPUR:   is close to achieving the 50-million tourists arrivals much ahead of the target announced by chief minister   in her Vision 2020, said state’s chief secretary N C Goel here on Thursday.

 Signing an MoU with the   and   of Rajasthan ( ) for organizing the ‘Rajasthan Domestic Travel Mart’ 2018 on the lines of Kerala Tourism Mart, Goel said, “In her Vision 2020, the chief minister had set a target 5 crore tourists arrivals. By 2017, the arrivals have already crossed 4.5 crore mark. With the focus on domestic tourism and also other initiatives, we will achieve the target in 2018 instead of 2020.”
 
  will be the second such platform in the country after Kerala Travel Mart, which has made the southern state a force in the tourism industry. Sources said the government is spending about Rs 62 lakh for the event.
 
 However, some segments of the industry have flagged concerns that FHTR may get stretched to secure the support of the stakeholders across the country since its reach and influence is limited to Rajasthan. 
 
 But Goel came out in support of the body and said, “FHTR is the apex body of the trade, be it hotel or restaurant associations. That’s why we have selected FHTR. There are enough checks and balances. Also because its members are so heterogeneous, it can only do right things. We have no doubts on the efficacy and sincerity of FHTR.”
 
 The market share of Rajasthan in domestic tourism has been steadily declining since 2006. The sector constitutes 15% of the state’s GDP. Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, tourism, said tourist inflows to Rajasthan have grown by 10.5% in 2017. The growth is heartening because it comes on a high base of 17% in 2016, he added. But the neighboring states are doing much better, eating into the share of Rajasthan.
 
 The two and half day event is scheduled to take place in July this year. Members of FHTR said that the state needed a platform like this to regain the lost opportunities.
 
 Apurv Kumar, executive member of FHTR said that people in the country travel for various purposes, be it spiritualism, adventure or just to see tourist attractions. “A domestic travel mart was need of the hour. The segment has huge potential. By the help of this initiative, we can certainly achieve the leadership position again,” added Kumar.
 
 
