She is an example of courage and bravery, but Nirbhaya’s mother,  , says that she is not giving up the fight anytime soon. What happened on the fateful night of December 16, 2012 will forever be etched in our minds, but nothing much has changed since then in terms of safety of women in the country, she says.
In Bengaluru to give away the   to women achievers, Asha says that women’s safety is a burning issue today and strict reforms are required to bring a change. She, however, adds that it is heartening to see that the issue has become a topic of debate and more women are opening up about their experiences. Excerpts…
 
 
 
 This is only the beginning of a fight that we, women, are putting up. There’s still a long way to go. It feels good when people support us, but we can set an example only when the four accused in the   case receive capital punishment. Only then will women in the country feel safe again.
 On the occasion of International Women’s Day, I want to tell mothers to pray for the well-being of their children, especially their daughters, so that they may never become victims of rape.
 
 
 
 If you ask me, honestly, nothing has changed. There have been a few changes, but there’s still a lot more to be done. As for the judiciary, the laws have changed, but there hasn’t been any work done there. We make hundreds of new rules, but if it takes over 10 years to give justice to anyone, then there’s no meaning to it. What’s the point? The judiciary needs to work on it.
 If there is an incident of rape or sexual harassment, the accused are held, but even after a year or two, they show no remorse and don’t fear anything. Look at the mentality of our society. An eight-month-old baby was raped in Delhi recently, that itself speaks of the mentality of the society we live in. This has become a daily affair for us. So, neither the judiciary, nor the government or even the police force are bothered about such incidents.
 
 
 
 Absolutely. The case is in the Supreme Court now. An order was pronounced on May 5 last year, but it was reviewed again. Sometimes we get a date, sometimes we don’t. As of now, we haven’t even got a date about a new hearing or order pronouncement. But there is hope. There cannot be a bigger crime than what my daughter went through, but I am hopeful that justice will be served. When that will happen, I don’t know. 
 
 
 
 Not at all. I do break down sometimes, but I gather myself and get ready for the fight because now, it’s not only about Nirbhaya. My fight is for those who are like us, who should be given justice. I want women in our country to feel safe. I will fight and raise my voice against crimes like these till my last breath.
 
 
 
 It is because of people like you, those who have supported us that I am standing here. When the incident took place, no one knew Nirbhaya, no one knew us. But the whole world raised its voice for Nirbhaya and that gave me strength. That’s why I feel that all of us should stand together and fight against crimes like these and make our children feel safe.
 
 
 
 Yes, and that’s why women and young girls are speaking up now. They have become tough, empowered, and self-confident and are preparing themselves to fight against these crimes themselves. They are fighting for their rights, their dignity. Women are feeling empowered across the world and that’s why they are also raising their voices against the atrocities committed. I want women to speak up, to identify themselves and their power. Even if no one is there to protect her, a woman needs to protect herself and fight for justice.
 
