Chennai: Indians will need more patience if they want to achieve the grand ‘American dream’ — as data shows the US government is not granting citizenships at the pace it was doing a decade ago.  In the last 30 years, the US was at its most liberal in 2008, when it granted as many as 65,971 citizenships; a reflection of the influx of Indian highly-skilled immigrant workers arriving on American shores at the rate of 1,20,000 workers a year between 1995-2000. While 2017 citizenship numbers (49,601) are an improvement from 2014 when it hit a decade-low (37,854) — the overall trend is still dampening as the number of immigrants have dropped to 1.51 million from 1.72 million during the same period.  “The H1B matter was a wake up call. Now companies are adopting a cautious approach given the changing policies. American companies do not require Indian techies as much as they needed earlier,” said Paul Dupius, CEO, Randstad India, a HR and staffing firm.  “It was the Y2K phenomenon in 2000 that set the Indian IT majors on fast track. This was the time they could leverage the labour arbitrage and took in skilled professionals in large numbers to the US. The 2008 boom in citizenships could be partly attributed to these professionals who had moved to the US much earlier,” he added. Since the 1990s Indians have been the second or third largest immigrant population to be granted citizenship after Chinese and Mexicans. Most Indians take the highly skilled work visa-green card-citizenship route; unlike Mexicans who are more likely to be granted citizenship based on family ties. But with immigration numbers on a decline -- compared to the highs seen in 2000-10 -- the need for a fresh influx of Indian engineers, MBAs and doctors is waning as more US corporates looking to hiring locals.  But, the same reason — US corporates — were behind why we witnessed the 2008 boom. America went from granting just 11,499 citizenships for Indians in 1990 to granting 65,971 citizenships in 2008. A surge that experts attribute to the US corporate giant machinery's insatiable need for Indian talent. “More Indians started coming to the use, when US immigration policy started favouring skill-based immigration to one based on family-connections. The average time it takes to process a green card has gone up from a couple of years to as much as 7-8. Indians have made more applications than any other country in the world — which means they have a longer waiting period,” said Mark Davies, an immigration lawyer.  Indians came to the US at the rate of 12,000 a year with Gujaratis the largest sub-group; between 1980--1994, Indians came to America at the rate of about 30,000 per year — as admissions back then were based on family connections giving an edge to Gujaratis and Punjabis, who had the deepest roots in the country then. Post-1994 Indian migrants, with a high percentage of South Indians — selected based on their education and skills — came at the rate of 65,000 per year. The influx, which includes students, grew as high as 1,20,000 per year, especially after US corporations lobbied to increase the number of H-1B visas — temporary visas given to workers in specialised professions, academicians, wrote in a book. The authors estimate 90% of temporary visa holders eventually become permanent residents. Given that the biggest gateway to entering the US has been IT companies, the Trump’s administration’s recent policies are pushing US corporates to scale back recruitment of foreign workers.  “With the US...looking at implementing strict immigration laws, onsite opportunities are likely to reduce significantly. Implementation of ‘nationalistic’ policies will lead to stricter immigration laws across the world; hence, IT services companies will have to remodel their businesses to hire more locals and reduce offshore share,” said Vibhor Singhal, analyst, Philip Capital.