TRICHY:   are a worried lot as the prices of black gram is continued to fall forcing them to sell their produce at a loss. While the Tamil Nadu government announced to procure pulses through direct procurement centres (DPCs), farmers are sceptical whether to sell their produce in the open market or to stock them as the government is yet to announce minimum support price (MSP) for the process. Farmers demanded the state government to announce MSP for black gram and wanted it to be fixed at Rs 100 per kg.

 According to officials from the agriculture department, the area of cultivation of black gram this year is about 9.88 lakh acres and the production is expected to be 2.76 lakh tonne. In Trichy, farmers have cultivated black gram in about 11,300 acres of land, officials said. Harvest is at the peak in   and has just commenced in  .
 
 Two years back, farmers sold a bag of a black gram for Rs 12,000 to Rs 15,000. However, for the last two years they could hardly sell it for Rs 3,500 to Rs 4,500, they said. 
 
 During budget, government announced that it would start procuring cereals like black gram, green gram and dal. However, the state is yet to commence the process, said Ayilai Sivasuriyan, district secretary of   affiliated to CPI.
 
 “Already the entire farming community lost kuruvai and some of them cultivated samba with the help of available groundwater. They were very hopeful that they would get a good yield in black gram. However, due to severe drought and scarcity of water, that too could not be realised. So, the government should at least help them by immediately commencing the process of procurement,” he said.
 
 Puliyur A Nagarajan, state organiser of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress, said that very few farmers went for black gram cultivation in Trichy this year. However, farmers could not harvest their produce due to scarcity of water. “Around 60% of the crop alone could be reaped in Trichy,” he said.
 
 “As announced by the deputy chief minister and finance minister O Panneerselvam in the assembly during the budget session, the government should start the process of procurement of cereals. Before that minimum support price should be announced and that should be Rs 100 per kg to benefit farmers,” he added.
 
 Not willing to sell their produce at a loss, many farmers in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts have switched over to cotton while others have restricted themselves to minimum acres of land for cultivating black gram.
 
 
