BHOPAL: It was billed as a non-political event by organisers. Speakers were asked to refrain from indulging in a political blame game. But the convention of   at BHEL dussehra ground on Sunday in the presence of   leader from Gujarat   turned out to be just the opposite. With Kurmi (Patidar) leaders from both the BJP and the   sharing the dais and mike, the convention turned into a political slugfest between members of the two rival parties. 

 Former MP Buddhsen Patel set the tone by accusing the party “which ruled for 65 years of ignoring Sardar Patel (a Kurmi jewel), who unified India and pushing him into oblivion till a leader from Gujarat arrived on the scene in 2014, who brought the focus back on Sardar Patel.” Buddhsen had won the Lok Sabha election on the BSP ticket. His speech hardly left others in doubt about his loyalties. Asking people of his community to ensure best education for their children, he said, it is easy now as anyone with more than 75% marks is given stipend by the government for higher studies. When he was asked to finish his address, he got angry and snubbed the woman, who was asking him to sit down.
 
 When the mike was passed on to former minister and Congress leader Rajmani Patel, he said “It was absurd to side with an ideology which is conspiring to divide the society and the country. Sardar Patel had unified India, but they are working to divide the nation. Sardar Patel would have never endorsed it,” he said. “Farmers demanding their rights are shot dead by police and RTE, which ensured education to children from weaker sections is being scuttled,” he alleged. 
 
 Congress MLA from Sidhi district Kamleshwar Patel, who was next to speak rebutted the allegation that Sardar Patel was ignored by the Congress and said he was given the due place and recognition. Vallabh Bhawan, the mantralaya building in MP is an example of that, he said.
 
 Referring to Hardik Patel, he said, a person, who was fighting for rights of his community, was charged with treason, but those swindle crores and crores of rupee, are allowed to flee the country in an obvious reference to now under scam-tainted Nirav Modi. 
 
 He said it was unrealistic to expect politicians at the convention not to make political observations and if ‘unwarranted’ comments were made as the former MP had done, definitely it would be rebutted.
 
 
