GURUGRAM: Mass   continues unabated during   in the district. 

 On Saturday, at least 26 incidents of cheating were reported from various examination centres of Gurugram.
 
 TOI visited the  , Daultabad, and found four photocopy shops churning out notes that were passed into classrooms through the gaps cut open in the grille mesh of windows. 
 
 This was despite the Gurugram administration imposing a strict ban on the operation of photocopy and internet in shops within 200 metres of examination centres of all school boards across the district.
 
 Anju Pruthi, the school principal, said, “Since March 7 when the board exams started, I have been personally going to the photocopy shops and requesting them to down their shutters during exams, but they simply refuse to listen. One of the shop owners even told me not to overstep my jurisdiction.”
 
 At this centre, some 219 students had come to give the exam. Suresh Kumar, the exam superintendent, said, “We have requested the students not to wear their shoes and socks, so that we can ensure zero cheating. I have also made sure that the exam takes place on the first floor of the school and not on the ground floor.”
 
 Despite, all efforts made, there was one girl who was caught from the same school with chits she had got inside the classroom. There were many miscreants who were spotted jumping from one roof to the other. The reason why they were on top of the roof is because the exam was taking place on the first floor, making it easy for them to throw chits inside. 
 
 Yogesh Kumar, assistant sub-inspector of police, stationed at the school said, “There are five policemen stationed outside the school. We are keeping a close eye on the miscreants and we’ll ensure they won’t cause any problem during the exam.”
 
 On March 6, a day before the exam started, all ground floor barbed wires of the school window were cut. 
 
 “The anti-social elements have cut the barbed wires. I will write to the police in this matter. There is no boundary wall of the school and it lies directly on the road from all sides, which is a very big reason for outside disturbance. There is a great need for deployment of more police personnel,” said Pruthi. 
 
 District education officer Premlata Yadav, who was on a flying squad which visited the school, however, apparently blamed the principal for the mess. “For outside disturbance, the school principal is responsible. The superintendent of exam will be held accountable if anything goes wrong inside the examination hall,” she said.
 
 
