Ahmedabad: Prime Minister   is a social scientist, said President of India, Ramnath  , on Sunday. He was speaking at the 66th convocation of  . The President asked students to take inspiration from ‘Chaiwallah Prime Minister’ (Modi) and also from former President Dr APJ Abdul   who was a rocket scientist.

 Kovind praised   saying the latter was a former student of GU who had faced many hardships in life. 
 
 “Yet he had risen to become the prime minister of this country,” he said. “Besides bridging the gap between India and the rest of the world through our cultural heritage and ethical values, the PM had founded new ways for the youths of 21st century through programmes such as Start-up India and  .”
 
 The President further said that he was told that President Kalam had also stayed on this campus for two years and conducted research. “Both (Modi and Kalam) were from a poor background,” Kovind said at the convocation ceremony.
 
 “Narendra Modiji has been given the nickname of ‘Chaiwalla PM’,” he said.
 
 “I don’t know whether anyone of you has ever had a chance to sell tea. I intentionally mentioned these two persons. These two must be the most inspiring dignitaries for you,” President Kovind said. 
 
 He further said that he called Kalam a space scientist and Narendra Modi a social scientist. “A scientist never looks back. He foresees the future,” Kovind said.
 
 At the convocation, degrees were awarded to 56,159 students. Of these, 16,262 were from arts, 7,473 from science, 186 from engineering, 1,023 from law, 1,096 from medical, 25,903 from commerce, 90 from dental and 4,126 from education faculties.
 
 Kovind also said that girls had got more more medals than boys and, if this continues, girls will stop talking of reservation for women’s empowerment but boys will still seek quota. There were 49 boys and 86 girls among the medal winners at the convocation. The President praised the world heritage status of Ahmedabad.
 
 Gujarat governor O P Kohli said that it is the responsibility of universities to ensure that their students are not indifferent to the spiritual aspect of Indian culture. The President, governor, chief minister Vijay Rupani and education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama were presented with a copy each of ‘Ramchartimanas’ penned by Goswami Tulsidas. 
 
 
