DHARAMSHALA: It’s not only Punjab that has been hit by illegal sand mining, the villages of Kangra district sharing borders with Punjab too are feeling the heat because of the unscientific practice prevalent on the banks of Ravi. Importantly,   living in these villages have taken upon themselves to put up a fight against   as they feel that the authorities in   have failed to act.

 Illegal mining has not only caused revenue loss to the state, but it has taken a toll on natural resources. Farmers claimed that the use of heavy earth moving machinery for mining has changed the course of water here, causing several problems for them.
 
 More than 200 farmers of Riyali, Rey, Bogrwan, Mand Indora, Khanpur and Milma villages in this district have formed an outfit — Mand Kshetra Paryavarn Sangrakshan Samiti — to fight their cause. The samiti has filed cases with the   (NGT) raising their plight.
 
 “We feel that the state government has abandoned the farmers of border area villages. Geographical conditions of our farms are same to Punjab, but there is no market in the state to support us. Moreover, these illegal mining activities were taking a toll on our lives,” said Pooran Chand, secretary of the samiti.
 
 A visit to the area revealed that there were deep pits on the river beds. It has changed the course of the water and poses a threat to the animals, farmers claimed.
 
 “We are forced to fight our cause as heavy trucks have damaged our roads. But the authorities have failed to check ferrying of vehicles between   and Punjab,” said Jatinder Singh Rana, who owns 10 acres of land in Mand village.
 
 Villagers have complained that crusher units start working during late night hours or in the wee hours. But as they sense any movement of police, they cross over to Punjab, claimed farmers.
 
 Neeraj Kumar, mining officer of the area, said he had received complaints from the villages about the use of pock-lanes and JCBs. “It is not permissible to use such heavy machinery for mining purpose. I will visit the spot and take necessary action,” he said.
 
 Superintendent of police   said there were proper check posts on the border areas. “We have seized such vehicles ferrying illegal sand. We have continued our campaign against illegal mining.” 
 
 
