Social media is encouraging Indians to click for a cause. But should giving be about impulse or impact?

 
 On April 22, when 76-year-old Raja Singh Phull reached the public toilet near   in central Delhi, as he had been doing every morning for several years, he found a motley crowd waiting for him. They thronged to him, talking all at once. Some wanted to take him home, others offered shelter and money. It was the kind of attention that Phull had not received in years.
 
 "It was too much. I said no to everyone. I am not a beggar. I did not want their money or their pity," says Phull, who has been living on the streets of Delhi for 30-odd years. Later, he found out that his photograph and story had gone viral through a   post by Delhi resident  . The “riches to rags” post had described Phull as an "  graduate" who had fallen on hard times. He had lost money in business and was deserted by his wife and sons. Phull had lived for many years in the first-class waiting room at the New Delhi railway station, earning a few bucks by helping people get train reservations or filling visa forms. 
 
 When Singh posted the story, he only hoped his friends would pitch in for Phull. But the response was overwhelming. Within three days, “I got calls from across the country and even countries like the US, UK, Kenya and Germany. People called to offer jobs or to relocate him abroad. One lady even landed up at the visa office with Rs 21,000 in cash. We had to turn them all down," Singh recalls. Phull eventually agreed to go to an old-age home run by the Delhi Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak committee (SGPC) in Rajinder Nagar. 
 
 Phull’s story, of being plucked out of penury by strangers, is not an exception. Moved by posts on Twitter and WhatsApp forwards, many Indians are tapping their inner good Samaritans. On the crowd-funding website Ketto.org, Dhiraj was able to raise Rs 25 lakh for his toddler Arohi’s treatment in just 20 days, while schoolteacher Manish found people had donated over Rs 5.6 lakh for the Sikkim Himalayan Academy school in 19 days. Of course, the more click-baity the story, video or picture, the more money flows in.
 
 People donate to assuage guilt, or give back to society, says Puja  , CEO for Child Rights and You (CRY). But often, these donations do not look beyond the short-term. “We find that there is a very high tendency for Indians to donate spontaneously. But there is an almost 70% drop in donating the second time around. This is unlike international trends, where people donate regularly, and only stop if there is a drastic change in their financial condition," she says.
 
 India ranks 81 in the CAF World Giving Index report 2017, up from 91 last year. Though it tops in terms of the number of people donating to charity or helping strangers, it lags behind when the proportion of the population is calculated.
 
 Shaheen Mistri, founder of NGO Teach for India, admits that raising funds is a huge challenge. “I find it difficult to understand why people donate crores to religious institutions, but have problems giving to a needy man dying outside a temple. We need to develop that ethic," she says. Donations to religious institutions continue to be high because of the trust factor, say NGOs. “Every time a PNB kind of scam hits the headlines, there is a drop in donations. There is a trust deficit among people," Marwaha says. 
 
 Not all internet philanthropy is about handing out doles. Take industrialist  , who received a WhatsApp picture of Narsee, a Haryana cobbler who had a very cool way of marketing his skills. The billboard used by the ‘shoe doctor’ described his shop as a hospital for injured shoes and even gave ‘OPD timings’ when he was available. “This man should be teaching marketing at the  ," tweeted Mahindra. Later, the Mahindra group chairman sent his design team from Mumbai to help Narsee with a kiosk that would be both functional and aesthetic.
 
 Mahindra says that his definition of ‘new-age philanthropy’ is not donations, but partnerships in creating ‘shared value.’ “Investing in the cobbler’s enterprise will, I hope, bolster his self-esteem and motivation, which will inevitably lead to his growth. Improving his income and the quality of his services to customers is a more sustainable form of philanthropic value creation,” he says.
 
 Both Mistri and Marwaha agree that the spirit of volunteering is growing, especially among the young. “This is not to say that there won’t be some people who come for a day and drop out because the poverty or dirt just gets to them. There are also those who are more interested in taking selfies to show friends their ‘good work’," says a NGO executive.
 
 Dressed in a clean shirt and trousers, Phull says he feels safe for the first time in years. "Often when I had to go to bed hungry, I would wonder how had I reached such a state. Khandhar bata rahe hain ki imarat kabhi bulund thi…You can tell by looking at my face that I used to look like a filmstar," he says with a smile. He certainly has a following like one these days, at least till the next ‘viral’ cause arrives.
 
 
