 and her businessman hubby   have been setting major #relationshipgoals for many after they got married. The latest update from the couple on social media – with Sonam adopting Anand’s name almost immediately after their wedding and then Anand adding the initial ‘S’ to his on Thursday – had many gushing over the gesture.
And while Anand’s name change made many girls “dream of a man like him, who is open to changing his name after marriage,” guys in the city think that this is something “personal” and it might look “too flattering on social media.” As we speak to some Delhi men, a few completely say ‘no’ to the idea of changing their names for their wives, while others say that they’ll do it if “the wife demands.” 
 
  
  
  
 
 Jitesh Dhawan, a 24-year-old manager in a private bank and a single man, says, “I don’t get why anyone, be it a girl or a guy, should change his/her name after marriage. I think changing names after marriage is only a social media trend now. Officially, getting your names changed on papers is a tedious task. I believe girls still have to do it because of the family’s expectations. The guy might not want to change his name, but his family would still want that if a girl has gotten married into their family, she changes her name to be a part of their family. But this should also be the girl’s decision. I would not ask my wife to change her name and I don’t think I will change my name just to express my love.”
 
  
 
 Manish Gupta, a 26-year-old single man and a data analyst in Noida, tells us, “I will never change my name after marriage. I won’t even ask my wife to do that. It should be her personal choice. I think I will have a discussion with my fiancée about it before getting married, and I will be very clear about it. I will try and explain to her that even if she wants it, my family will not like it. They will not ask her to change her name, and if she changes her name by choice and I do it too, they (my family) might not like it. Why should I hurt someone else to please one person? 
 
  
  Anand S Ahuja and Sonam A Kapoor
 
  
 
 Hanish Mathavan, 28, single and a businessman, adds, “I really liked that Anand Ahuja has set an example for other men by doing this. I know two more guys who changed their names on FB and added their wives’ names to their profile. I would be open to doing that too. Why is it that only girls are expected to change their names? I think this should not just be looked at as an expression of love, but also a social change. It will at least send out a message to many, that there is nothing wrong in adding your wives’ name to your name, especially if she can do so too. I would do that after my marriage even if my wife doesn’t ask for it, to express to her that I believe in equality in the relationship.”
 
  
 
 Chand Verma, 30, who works in an MNC in Gurgaon, says, “I am married and it is my personal choice to not change my name. Anand wanted to do it so he did it and there is nothing right or wrong about it. I think newlyweds try a lot of new things to make their partners happy and it is like one of the gestures from his end. I think it is completely one’s choice.”
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Prabhjot Singh Batra, a second-year student from Sri Guru Gobind Singh College of Commerce and the first runner-up of Delhi Times Fresh Face 2016, says, “I don’t think that I can ever do this for my wife or girlfriend. How do we know ki ye Anand ne khud kiya hai ya uski wife ne force kiya tha karne ko? I don’t think it is embarrassing, but I feel it is better to just tell the person that you love them than going on social media to change your name. At a time when you can be trolled for anything on the internet, I think this will surely make people troll me.”
 
  
 
 Shashank Narula, a 25-year-old photographer who lives in Pitampura, says that he can change his name for his wife if she “demands” it. “I think it is about giving respect to your spouse. You can change it if you wish to, and I think I can do it if my wife demands. It might not be flattering on social media or other platforms, but if your wife can change her name, you can do it as well. People will troll you for everything you do, let alone changing your name, so why bother about them?”
 
  
 
 Raj Vikram Gupta, a 27-year-old resident of DLF Phase III, who is in a committed relationship and works as a consultant in Gurgaon, says, “I had never thought about changing my name for my wife, but after Anand Ahuja did it, I think I can also change my name. A woman leaves her family for us, can’t we just change our name for her?”
 
 
 
