CHENNAI: The state government will release 1,600  , who have completed 10 years of their terms without any violation, soon some on the birth centenary of former chief minister   on January 17 and the rest on the birth anniversary of   on February 25.

 The last time such a decision was taken was in 2008 when the DMK government released 1,405 prisoners. This time, prison officials recommended the release of 1,900 prisoners based on their conduct, but the government, after scrutiny, scaled down the number to 1,600. “The official order will be released soon,” said a state home department official.
 
 The various prison superintendents have been assigned to collect details of the jail inmates selected for release.
 
 Of the nine central prisons and three special prisons for women in the state, the one at Puzhal in Chennai comprises around 1,800 life convicts, most of them eangaged in manufacturing bakery products, dress material, gardening and other occupations.
 
 Prison department officials have contacted a few firms that have promised to provide all assistance to these men and women to earn a living once they are outside the jail. The officials will also keep tabs on them for at least a year.
 
 Gopal (name changed), a Coimbatore residente who was one of those released in 2008, told TOI on Thursday: “I am thankful to the officials who recommended me for premature release. Now, I am leading a peaceful life with my family. I run a tailoring unit. My wife helps me and I am focused on raising my children.”
 
 
 
 
 After a mega lok adalat at Puzhal prison on Wednesday, 100 inmates were recommended for early release. Accordingly, they were freed from jails in Chennai, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts in the evening.
 
 Based on the instructions of Kuluwadi G Ramesh, chairman of the Madras high court legal services authority, lok adalats were held at all the nine central prisons in the state. A prison adalat was held at Puzhal jail in the presence of the member-secretary of the Legal Services Authority A Naseer Ahmed, Tiruvallur district principal judge D Ilangovan, Chennai district principal judge S Suma Devi and all the other magistrates from the three districts. Puzhal prison-II superintendent A Murugesan and other officers were also present in the lok adalat.
 
 Of the 127 prisoners who petitioned, the judges and magistrates were convinced about 100 cases and recommended their release.
 
