NOIDA: A 24-year-old woman from Maharashtra bound to a wheelchair for as long as she can remember received an award at the   on Friday for her work in the field of disability rights and educating the poor.

  from Katraj has been   since birth and suffers from 84% disability. She was among the 23 young people who got awards from minister of state (independent charge) Rajyavardhan Rathore and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath at the event at Gautam Buddha University in  .
 
 Daughter of a tailor, Diksha is the global youth ambassador for ‘A world at school’ supported by the United Nations till 2020. Five years ago, she started going around slums in her area to teach poor children along with members of an NGO called Roshni.
 
 “My friends would take me to the slums every day and we would teach the children there. Later, we also started giving lessons to homeless children living under bridges. We also help people who are visually impaired and provide them writers to take various exams,” Diksha told TOI.
 
 Diksha’s father   passed away last year, but her mother Chitra has been her “pillar of success”. She follows her 24-year-old daughter everywhere.
 
 Elated at her daughter’s success, Chitra recounted how she and Diksha had had to overcome several obstacles.“The local school we approached for her admission refused us. They said they would not admit her because she was paraplegic. They feared they would be pulled up by the authorities in case my daughter was injured,” Chitra said.
 
 Diksha, who is busy preparing for the civil services exam, said she wanted to formulate a policy solely for the disabled.
 
 “I have faced a lot of opposition since I gained my senses. At times, people would laugh at me because I was bound to a wheelchair. Most of the buildings in our country are not at all suitable for the disabled. Even today, I had to be lifted up as there was no ramp on the stage. I want to work so that the disabled get access to everything,” she said. Diksha had to be lifted by two persons on Friday as she went to the stage to collect her medal and certificate.
 
 Suvarna Raj, a paralympic table-tennis player who was invited to the event on Friday, also rued how the ramps at some places in the venue were not disabled-friendly.
 
 
