Chennai: While the regulatory situation in the US and Europe is changing fast, IT SMEs need to focus on other markets. With 90% of India’s software exports going to the two regions, the Electronic and Computer software Export Promotion Council (ESC) is assiduously pursuing a strategy to push tier-2 and tier-3 IT companies to diversify their offerings from mere services to products and complete solutions and target markets like Japan, Latin America, Iran. 

 In the city to announce their flaghip IT event Indiasoft 2018, officials of the ESC including Sanjay Chadha, joint secretary, department of commerce & industry, D K Sareen, executive director, ESC and Nalin Kohli, past chairman, ESC called for active involvement from IT SMEs in the state. 
 
 “TN has a large number of SMEs, many in the IT and software space. The event will give them access to foreign markets and opportunities that they can tap into,” said Kohli. 
 
 Talking about opportunities in other markets, Sareen said, “Japan and China are big potential markets. With China,we have spoken to them to kick off some pilot projects which will give us some headway. Japan is not a new market. At least 60 Indian IT companies have offices in Tokyo alone. It is the language barrier that we need to cross to increase opportunities for smaller companies.” ESC recenty conducted training for over 1,000 IT professionals in Japanese to help them bridge the language barrier. Over 400 delegates from over 60 countries will attend Indiasoft 2018 to be held in Bengaluru on 24-25 January 2018. “We have 15 companies from Iran alone. Other countries that will see representation include Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Singapore, UAE. Smaller IT companies must seize this opportunity to move up the value chain to offer complete solutions and forge long term relationships with clients in new markets,” said Kohli.
 
 In a bid to promote export related activity, the ESC has taken multiple initiatives including the Trade Infrastructure for Export Scheme. “Subject to conditions, for every Re invested by a state, the centre will give an equal grant in permitted activities for export-related infrastructureThe policy was announced in April last year and has seen five states file proposals,” said Chadha. HLL’s Medipark in Chengalpet is one of the projects and has received over Rs 9 crore from the centre. Chadha added that the besides a national export policy, states have been advised to come up with individual policies to promote their export interests. “As many as 28 states have submitted their policies. We have shared detailed data with states on their exports which will help them identify strengths, gaps and opportunities. TN has submitted its policy and has been sent back to them for some revision,” he said.
 
 
