BENGALURU: There is a Guava Garden Street, a Modi Garden Road and a Sannappa Garden Road in SK Garden ward, all under  . But the ward has no garden at all. In fact, SK Garden has become an euphemism for a slum.

 
 "Our locality is only 4-5 km from Vidhana Soudha, yet it looks like a slum," says Syed Munawar, a resident of SK Garden. Rueing that the slum tag has only made it difficult to avail bank loans, he says, "I was denied vehicle and home loans without assigning any reason."
 
 The plight of the constituents is the last thing on the mind of political parties, if one goes by the way they have readily accepted turncoats from each other's camp. R Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, who was elected on a JD(S) ticket in 2013, is seeking re-election as a   candidate. B  , who had lost to Murthy as a Congress candidate, is the JD(S) nominee now.
 
  
  
 The two candidates though need to wait till May 15 to know whether their voters too have changed their party loyalties.
 
 Reserved for SCs, Pulakeshinagar is a mix of posh localities like Davis Road and Benson Town and under-developed localities of Sagayapuram, DJ Halli, S K Garden and Kaval Byrasandra. Residents of less-developed pockets admit that there has been improvement in the way things work. "We used to get water once a week a couple of years ago and now we get it twice a week. That itself is a huge relief," says Nasruall Shariff, 64, who has been living in S K Garden since birth.
 
 Over 1.3 lakh religious minority votes, close to 65,000 SC/ ST votes and 30,000 linguistic minority (largely Tamil) votes play a decisive role.
 
 While Murthy is confident that his good work and the new party tag will bring him luck this time too, Prasanna Kumar is playing up the betrayal card, citing how the Congress ditched him and embraced his rival. "No work has happened in the constituency. All developmental works stopped after I lost the last election. Sympathy is working in my favour this time," says Prasanna.
 
 Making it clear that the fight is between him and Murthy, Prasanna says given his long association with Congress and its hand symbol, he is laying stress on the voters to remember that he is now a JD(S) candidate. "I am asking my voters to remember my serial number 2 and vote for me," he says.   has fielded   as its candidate.
 
