The episode of   begins with Naira crying her heart out after Kartik refuses to talk to her. 

 Kartik leaves the auditorium and Naira follows him. Everybody applauds Naira and Kirti but Suhasini says that Naira shouldn't have overreacted in front of the Government officials. She says that Naira should have been careful enough. Everybody wonders what Suhasini is talking about. 
 
 Kartik goes and stands under a flower canopy. Naira comes from behind and tries to convince him to talk to her but in vain. Suddenly the flower canopy collapses and the garland of flowers fall on Naira and Kartik. 
 
 Naira hugs Kartik and apologises again. Kartik melts a little but suddenly gets a call from his office. 
 
 He says he has to go and leaves Naira alone and she feels bad. Naira along with her family members leave for their respective houses. 
 
 Bua dadi and Naksh search for Naitik. Kirti says she will go and get him. Kirti goes out and searches for Naitik and sees Mansi and Naitik talk to each other over something intense. 
 
 Kirti wonders what the conversation must be about. Later in the day, dadi (Suhasini) praises Naira for her performance. She says that she really has made her happy. She gives Naira a pair of bangles as gift. 
 
 Suhasini further says that she expected Naira to behave like this always by letting Kartik handle his work and she handles her own. She gives her property papers stating it to be a gift from Manish. 
 
 She says that Manish has bought the extended land of her Academy in case if Naira ever wants to expand her Academy. Naira beams with joy but somewhere in her heart she sulks thinking of Kartik's anger. 
 
 Further Naira comes to know that the clients are staying back at this Goenka house. She decides to cook for the client on her own. 
 
 Suhasini says that she could have easily ordered good food from a five star hotel and there was no need for home cooked meals. In the Singhania house, Naitik is seen preparing a cake for Naira. Kirti helps him. 
 
 
