PUNE: The families of the two persons who died when the open flap door of a Shivneri bus hit them on Sunday evening in Khadki will each get compensation of Rs 10 lakh, the   (MSRTC) authorities said.

 The corporation has kicked off a thorough check of its 110-strong air-conditioned fleet comprising Shivneri and Ashwamedh buses. The utility will also bear the entire medical expenses of the injured victim who is undergoing treatment at  . 
 
 Deepak Sorte (54) of Aundh Road and Arogyadas Swami (62) of Khadki died when they sustained serious head injuries. The third man,   (51) of Kasarwadi was hit in the chest. All three were standing by the roadside opposite Raja bungalow. The hydraulic door of the bus’s engine cover opened on its own after the vehicle went over a speed bump. 
 
 “They had alighted at the bus stop near   Colony. All three were chatting when the Shivneri bus hit them at high speed. Sorte sustained serious head injuries while Ashirwadan sustained serious chest injuries. Swami fell down on impact and sustained several fractures,” S B Bhosale, sub-inspector of Khadki police station said. 
 
 The transport utility’s official, speaking from Mumbai told TOI on Tuesday, that they have begun investigating the accident. “There are 115 Shivneri and Ashwamedh buses. Their engine covers come with a hydraulic lock. The air-conditioned Shivshahi buses have the same space but the locks are manual. So far, it seems that the hydraulic lock of the bus opened after the vehicle hit a speed breaker. We will check all the buses to ensure they do not have a similar problem, and for other technical glitches. Apart from the compensation for the deceased, the MSRTC will take care of the medical expenses of the injured person too,” he said.
 
 The driver, who was from Parel depot, has been suspended. He has been placed in police custody and a report from the MSRTC into the accident said he was at fault. 
 
 “The bus faced a breakdown in the morning. It was repaired by technicians from the Pune division. Action will be initiated against them as well. It is the duty of the driver to ensure that all the doors of the bus he is driving are properly locked before he begins driving,” Srinivas Joshi, Pune divisional controller of the MSRTC, told TOI.
 
 Joshi said a team inspected the accident spot on Tuesday. “We have contacted the manufacturer of the bus seeking technical guidance. They have been requested to take this accident as a case study to ensure fuller safety. But there is also a maintenance issue here and we are trying to ascertain what caused the engine cover to fly open. All the depot managers and mechanical staff have fresh instructions about safety of the buses,” Joshi said.
 
 They have been told to see that buses leaving the depot are in good shape. “The drivers are bound by time. However, safety cannot be compromised with. Depot managers must ensure that the buses leaving their areas are in perfect shape at all times and maintenance is carried out daily. The engineering, maintenance and technical staff must also adhere to these instructions. The drivers should also make the same effort as they know their vehicle best. They should take it up with the depot managers,” he added.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
