BENGALURU: From learning dining etiquette and how to dress to navigating embarrassing situations and being able to  , this   offered by a   is no different from most others, except for one thing — its target audience is 6 to 12 year-olds.

  have undergone a sea-change in recent times, moving from basic arts and crafts, to specialised courses in robotics and lego, and adventure camps in exotic locations. Prices have increased too, with each course or outing costing thousands of rupees.
 
 “We offer courses to people of all ages, but the summer grooming course is exclusively for children between the age of six and twelve. Among other things, we teach them personal hygiene, how to build self-image, introduce them to the dos and don’ts of body language and how to eat difficult food,” said Janaki Ramaswamy, one of the trainers at GroomX. The two-hour-a-day, eight-day course costs Rs 8,000.
 
 “We take 6-7 students at a time, and have a lots of parents calling in to enquire about the course,” she added.
 
 Robotics with lego is another crowd-puller, with several establishments offering variants of the course. “This is the third year that we’re offering the lego course, and training is provided by India’s only lego-training institute. While we can accommodate only 16 students at a time, the course is very popular,” said Pooja of Bloom and Grow. The five-day course costs Rs 5,500.
 
 Bloom and Grow offers arts courses as well, but they are a far cry from the usual craft classes. “We have about 30 trainers and artists to teach Indian folk art, block-printing and sketching,” said Pooja.
 
 Techno   in Sahakar Nagar has been offering a lego-robotics course for two years now. “Students are enabled to discover in-circuit terminal programming, science, distance and time and maths concepts in a fun, engaging and hands-on way. Children, starting from the age of 8, are taught how to design, programme and control robots that carry out life-like automated tasks,” said Arun Kumar, who takes the 10-day course costing Rs 5,000.
 
 How about adventure trips!
 
 Online websites list dozens of camping and adventure trips that children can opt for during summer. Some, like the Maldives Marine Wildlife Camp launched by Frolic Boonies, take children in the 12-18 age group to the Maldives for snorkeling, bird-watching and exploring marine wildlife. The five-day camp costs Rs 65,000.
 
 Closer home, the Outback Farm and Homestay promises a ‘unique’ father/mother-and-child naturalist camp. Located on the edge of a lake in Bannerghatta, visitors can birdwatch, trek and indulge in wildlife photography. The two-day camp costs Rs 8,500 for a father/mother and child and Rs 16,000 for two kids and their father/mother.
 
 
