BENGALURU: Will inaction or delayed response in rectifying the Supreme Court order diluting the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, that led to violence in North Indian states, impact the BJP’s prospects in the May 12 election?

 Opinions are divided. BJP leaders said the Centre filed a review petition against the Supreme Court judgment on the SC/ST Protection Act, making the BJP’s stand clear, and this should end any controversy.
 
 The government move came amid reports of widespread protests to mark the Bharat Bandh call by Dalit organizations, and supported by mainstream political parties.
 
 However, the narrative on the ground, as some   leaders said, wasn’t just about dilution of the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, but the statement by Union minister Anant Kumar Hegde to review the Constitution, a move seen to end reservation.
 
 Though BJP chief Amit Shah clarified that this was not the party’s stand but Hegde’s personal opinion, the impression has taken root that there is a move to tinker with reservation.
 
 It may be recalled that RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s comments in the run-up to the Bihar assembly polls in November 2015, calling for a review of the Constitution, had hurt the BJP grievously in that election.
 
 Sources said Shah postponed his two-day visit to Mumbai-Karnataka region from Monday, worried that the Dalit violence in the northern states may have repercussions on poll-bound Karnataka. Last week, Shah had to apologize to a Dalit gathering in Karnataka, after protests demanding that the party sack Union minister Hegde, who reportedly used offensive language against Dalits.
 
 Shah, however, maintained that he postponed the visit at the last minute, as the party wanted him to be present at the Rajya Sabha debate.
 
 The issue brought some respite for the Congress government, which was under fire from majority sects in the scheduled castes over the proposed categorization of reservation as per the Sadashiva Commission recommendations. The Justice Sadashiva Commission was set up to examine and report whether the benefits of the government reached all sub-sects equally.
 
  had set aside grants proportionate to their population, under pressure form some dominant communities among SCs, in favour of categorization of reservation. The issue started backfiring on the government as leaders and people from 98 of 101 castes among SCs took to the streets against implementation of the recommendations. This set off apprehension that the Congress may lose this traditional vote bank.
 
 Dalits were also upset with the government’s decision to prepare a revised seniority list of its employees in view of the Supreme Court judgment in the B K Pavitra case, that quashed the 2002 law granting reservation in promotions to SC/ST staff. The court has given the government a month’s time to comply with its February 9 judgment to revise the seniority list.
 
 
