Panaji: Two   in Goa are among 338 across the country to be chosen by the Union human resource development (HRD) ministry to adopt five villages each. While Dnyanprassarak Mandal’s College (DMC) and Research Centre in Assagao will adopt Hasapur, Assagao, Chandel, Cansarvarnem and Alorna, Fr Agnel College in Pilar will take on the task of making the villages of Neura, Agasaim, Goa Velha, Batim and Carambolim self-sustainable.

 Both institutions will be assisted by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, in their mission.
 
 The colleges will now carry out a detailed survey of their adopted villages, recording the occupations of residents, demographics, educational qualifications of villagers, and facilities available in the households, like sources of electricity used, etc. 
 
 DMC and Fr Agnel College will accordingly identify areas where they can assist in improving living conditions in the villages.
 
 The villages will be helped as per their requirement to improve residents’ socio-economic conditions. While the colleges’ language teachers will likely assist students in the villages’ schools to improve their standard, they will also aid villages with alternative sources of energy, help in improving crops, and raising awareness about hygiene etc.
 
 “Today, we speak about education being community oriented,” said principal of Fr Agnel College, Fr Fredrick Rodrigues. “We knew little about the scheme when we had applied for it, but I felt we could be an example and give rise to the idea that governance can be community-driven.” He said the institution had chosen villages in its vicinity because it felt the area around the institution should benefit from the presence of the college.
 
 DMC and Fr Agnel College are both set to get funds from the central government over a period of three years for their effort. 
 
 “The areas around DMC are already quite well-developed,” said DMC principal D B Arolkar. “Our college has taken students to Hasapur in Pernem for an NSS camp each year. So we realised that there is better scope to improve the living conditions of villagers there.We chose the other villages we are adopting under the scheme for similar reasons, though they are not located in our neighbourhood.” 
 
 While Fr Agnel College plans to also rope in experts and academicians, DMC wants to involve up to 150 students and teachers annually.
 
 
