I thought Greg Chappell would be the best person to take us to the number one slot from the challenger's position. I had conveyed my personal choice to Mr Dalmiya when they were looking for a new Indian coach. A few people advised me against this move. Sunil Gavaskar was one of them. 'Sourav, think about it. With him around you might have problems in running the team. His past coaching record is not spectacular, he told me.

 
 
 
 
 Mr Dalmiya also called one morning and asked me to come to his house for an urgent discussion. He shared in confidence that even his brother Ian thought Greg might not be the right choice for India. Well, I decided to ignore all these warnings and follow my instincts. The rest as they say is history. But then that's life. Some scripts go your way, like my tour of Australia, and some don't, like the Greg chapter. I conquered the country but not one of its citizens.
 
 
 
 This (2005) remains the most turbulent chapter of my life. Not only was my captaincy suddenly taken away for no reason but I was also dropped as a player. I feel angry even as I write this. What happened was unthinkable. Unacceptable. Unforgivable.
 
 History hasn't recorded many instances of a winning captain being dropped so unceremoniously, that too after scoring a hundred in the last Test series. In Indian cricket there are no such parallels and I doubt whether there will ever be. So Mr   and the selection committee led by Kiran More have indeed put me in august company.
 
  
  
 … One thing that heartened me was that the number of my supporters across the country was rapidly increasing. Look, I was the captain of India for five years. I was one of the stars, a popular face in India. I already had a substantial fan base. But this downhill phase of mine suddenly endeared me to the masses. Even in the media, people who had criticized me routinely turned softer. Suddenly from Maharaj I had joined the ranks of the oppressed.
 
 
 
 
  Captain
 
  Just an ordinary member
 
  Captain
 As always, I failed to understand how I could be so bad and so good within a period of only twelve months. But then in franchise cricket you only do as you are told.
 
 Our fortunes did not change much in season three. I knew the team was now up for a change and rightly so. Our performance was below par and KKR needed a shaking up. With fresh auctions coming up the management needed to acquire the right kind of players and not repeat the mistakes that were made earlier. I was all for it. But I did not realize that I would not even be retained as a player. 
 
 Personally I had a great year notwithstanding the dismal team performance. I was the highest scorer for my team having scored 493 runs with an average of 37.58. Sachin had won the Orange Cap with 618 runs and I was fourth in the overall run-getters list. The numbers spoke for themselves, but yet again they were overlooked.
 
 Coming to Shah Rukh, I had interacted a lot with him during my time with KKR. By the third season his involvement was even deeper. The team's series of poor performances had hurt him deeply. I could understand his plight too. Being such a super successful performer it was difficult to take repeated failures in a product that bore his signature.
 
 I used to be in constant touch with him and in season three more than once took his opinion while deciding upon the final eleven - something I had never done while picking an Indian eleven. But as I said, the IPL was managed and played in a completely different way.
 
 I was later asked by the media what would have happened if the same KKR team had been owned by any other superstar? I replied that non-performance was an issue no one would have tolerated. So I thought the decision to leave me out from captaincy was quite justified. But how could they leave me out from the side as a batsman? To me, that was unjustified.
 
 I was also asked many times if someone had poisoned Shah Rukh's ears against me. My answer has been the same, I don't think so. There was a theory doing the rounds that my chest-thumping in a particular match against Deccan Chargers at Eden Gardens had angered the KKR management.
 
 Now to give you the background. I usually do not watch TV or read the paper on the day of the match. But that day before leaving for the ground, I had switched on the TV. What I saw was a banner headline, 'Time for Ganguly to Retire'. Some media friends felt it was politically designed. I still don't know who the mastermind was.
 
 That day I scored 88 runs and we won the match against Deccan Chargers. I was full of raw emotion - the anger of the afternoon news still simmered in me.
 
 
  
 
 My reaction that day was directed towards whoever had put up the banner. It came from passion and love for the game. The high of Success, nothing more. Remember how Federer reacted on court after winning a Grand Slam or Maradona at a World Cup. It certainly was not directed at Shah Rukh or any other members of the management.
 
 Eventually KKR 's decision not to retain me did not come in the way of my personal friendship with Shah Rukh. When we met subsequently we were as normal as ever.
 
 
 
 
 
