Sushil Kumar and Vijender Singh’s bronze medal-winning feats in the 2008 Beijing Olympics marked a major upswing in Olympic sports in Haryana. Since then, Haryana’s athletes have been at the forefront in major international tournaments. Be it the Olympics, Commonwealth Games or Asian Games, sportspersons from the state have accounted for most of the national medal tally.

 This year’s CWG in Gold Coast, Australia, was no different. Of the 66 medals India won at the Games, Haryana athletes contributed one-third. But it wasn’t always like this. Before 2008, athletes from Punjab spearheaded India’s chances in major international sporting championships. 
 
 Stats from the 1998 Kuala Lumpur CWG till the 2006 Melbourne CWG corroborate this. In 1998, Punjab athletes bagged two out of the 25 medals India won. Haryana, in comparison, clinched a solitary medal. Four years later in Manchester, Punjab sportspersons pocketed 13 out of India’s 69 medals. Haryana had just five in its kitty. In Melbourne, Punjab players claimed 12 out of India’s 50 medals while Haryana athletes won three.
 
 The narrative changed from the 2010 CWG, where Haryana athletes, backed by strong performances by their wrestlers and boxers, won 25 out of India’s 101 medals. Punjab wasn’t far behind and won 16 medals. The gap between the two states increased over the course of the next two Commonwealth Games. In 2014, Haryana sportspersons bagged 21 medals, while Punjab clinched 10. And in Gold Coast, Haryana players won 22 medals while Punjab was reduced to 6.
 
 Strong state sports policy
 
 The reasons for Haryana’s dominance are manifold; but, prime among them is a strong state sports policy. Haryana government awards and rewards its medallists with both jobs and money. A CWG gold medallist gets Rs 1.5 crore, silver medallist Rs 75 lakh and bronze medallist Rs 50 lakh from the state government. Employment-wise, a gold medal winner is entitled for a Class A, silver medallist Class B and bronze medallist Class C post job in the Haryana government.
 
 An Olympic gold medallist will get Rs 6 crore, silver medallist Rs 4 crore and bronze medallist Rs 2.5 crore from the state government. Even participation at the Olympics has a reward of Rs 15 lakh. “The present crop of athletes and performances that you see are entirely because of government policies,” says Akhil Kumar, an Arjuna Award-winning boxer from the state.
 
 Backing their strength
 
 Since Sushil and Vijender’s Olympic medals, different state government wings have worked together to make sure that wrestling and boxing get all the backing in terms of infrastructure and facilities. Wrestling and boxing academies have come up at nearly all important cities of the state. Wrestling mats of internationals standards have been provided, so that the grapplers don’t have to change their technique when they come up to the national level. Boxing gloves and punching bags have been provided in abundance at the various academies. The result is quite evident; at the Gold Coast CWG, boxing and wrestling comprised 16 of the 22 medals the state won.
 
 Manu Bhaker | Haryana
 
 Gold, Women’s 10m air pistol shooting
 
 Haryana girl Manu Bhaker won gold in 10 metre air pistol event at the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games. The 16-year-old, who hails from Jhajjar, secured the top spot by setting a new CWG record of 240.9 points. Manu is a multi-talented girl. She has won medals at the national level in several other sports like boxing, skating, thang ta – a Manipuri martial art form, and tennis. She is also an avid painter. She took up the sport just two years back. Besides her CWG gold, Manu also won double gold in the shooting World Cup that was held in Mexico, earlier this year
 
 Vinesh Phogat | Haryana
 
 Gold (Women’s 50kg freestyle wrestling)
 
 Vinesh Phogat won India’s only gold in women’s wrestling at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in spectacular fashion. In the final, Vinesh lifted her Canadian opponent Jessica MacDonald, a former world champion, over her shoulders and slammed her on her back. Vinesh had won gold at the 2014 Glasgow CWG too. She also has a bronze medal from the 2014 Incheon Asian Games. Vinesh is the daughter of wrestler Mahavir Singh Phogat’s younger brother Rajpal and the cousin of wrestlers Geeta and Babita. She is one of the prime contenders for a medal in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics
 
 Heena Sidhu | Punjab
 
 Gold, Women's 25m Pistol Shooting
 
 An established name in Indian shooting, Heena won two medals at the 2018 CWG. A gold in 25 metre pistol, and a silver in the 10 metre air pistol event. Heena has pocketed four CWG medals so far. In the 2010 edition in Delhi, she had won a gold and silver in the women’s 10m air pistol pairs and individual event. Born in Ludhiana, Heena is also a dental surgeon. She is the first Indian pistol shooter to have been ranked world number 1 by the international shooting federation
 
 Anish Bhanwala | Haryana
 
 Gold, Men’s 25m rapid fire pistol shooting
 
 The 15-year-old marksman from Karnal, Haryana, became the youngest-ever Indian to win a CWG gold in Gold Coast. Anish grabbed the top spot with a Games record score. The medal, however, didn’t come easy for the teen prodigy. He and his family had to battle several odds on the way to CWG glory
 
 Sumit Malik | Haryana
 
 Gold (Men’s 125kg freestyle wrestling)
 
 Sumit Malik won the gold medal in men’s 125kg freestyle final after his opponent Sinivie Boltic of Nigeria was ruled out. Sumit has been training at Delhi’s Chhatrasal Stadium since he was 13
 
 Vikas Krishan | Haryana
 
 Gold (Men’s 75kg middleweight boxing)
 
 Vikas Krishan had an easy run to the gold medal in the 2018 Commonwealth Games. In the final, the 26-year-old defeated Cameroon’s Wilfried Diudonne 5-0. The resident of Hisar district was all of 10 when he joined the famed Bhiwani Boxing Club
 
 Sanjeev Rajput | Haryana
 
 Gold, Men’s 50m rifle 3 positions shooting
 
 Shooter Sanjeev Rajput claimed the 50m rifle 3 positions gold medal by creating a Commonwealth Games record in both qualification and final rounds. The 37-year-old marksman from Yamuna Nagar, Haryana, qualified for the finals with a record-breaking effort, dismantling Olympic medallist Gagan Narang’s existing qualification record. Rajput, an Arjuna awardee, joined the Indian Navy as a sailor at the age of 18
 
 Bajrang Punia | Haryana
 
 Gold, Men’s 65kg freestyle wrestling
 
 Bajrang Punia lived up to his reputation as flag-bearer of Indian men’s wrestling by winning gold in the 65kg men’s freestyle wrestling category in double quick time. Later, he said the bouts during the CWG were easier than the practice sessions at the SAI centre in Sonipat. His scorelines in all the five bouts were identical: 10-0. The resident of Jhajjar district in Haryana is also an Arjuna awardee
 
 Gaurav Solanki | Haryana
 
 Gold, Men’s 52kg flyweight boxing
 
 Gaurav Solanki, the 20-year-old boxer from Ballabhgarh, Haryana, won gold at the 2018 CWG in 52kg flyweight category. Solanki dominated most of the battle against Northern Ireland’s Brendan Irvine in the final and won by a split verdict. One would think that hailing from Haryana — a hotbed of boxing in India — things would have been easy for Gaurav. But to everyone’s surprise, his village had no leaning towards boxing
 
 Sushil Kumar | Haryana
 
 Gold, Men’s 74kg freestyle wrestling
 
 Double Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar won his third Commonwealth Games gold medal on the trot in Gold Coast, becoming the most successful wrestler in CWG history. It took him a little over a minute to wrap up the final match against South African Botha Johannes. Sushil raced to 10 points and triumphed on the basis of technical superiority. This was the first major tournament for Sushil after winning the 2014 CWG gold. He is the first Indian to win a world title in wrestling. He is also an Arjuna awardee, a Padma Shri, and a recipient of the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna
 
 Neeraj Chopra | Haryana
 
 Gold (Men’s javelin throw)
 
 The golden boy of Indian athletics didn’t disappoint at the 2018 CWG and won the yellow metal in men’s javelin throw. Neeraj threw the spear 86.47 metres to become the third Indian man and fifth overall to win a gold in athletics at the Commonwealth Games. In 2016, at the World Under-20 Athletics Championships in Bydgosczsz, Poland, Neeraj won the javelin throw event with a world junior record. He threw the spear to 86.48 metres
 
 
