DEHRADUN:   constituency which is going to polls on Monday is likely to witness a tough contest with both the ruling   and the opposition   going all out to woo voters. While the Congress took out major rallies even in remote areas during the last leg of electioneering on Friday, a number of senior BJP leaders have been camping in the constituency for several days and the party’s prominent faces — from state-in-charge Shyam Jaju to CM Trivendra Rawat, state party chief Ajay Bhatt and tourism minister Satpal Maharaj have been actively campaigning in the area.
 
  Bypoll to the Tharali seat was necessitated by the death of BJP MLA  , who succumbed to swine flu earlier this year. In the constituency, BJP is hoping to gain sympathy votes by fielding Shah’s wife Munni Devi. The Congress has fielded veteran leader Jeet Ram who had earlier represented the seat from 2012 to 2017.
  
  In a show of unity on Friday, former CM Harish Rawat, state party chief Pritam Singh and Kedarnath MLA Manoj Rawat addressed voters and urged them to “teach the BJP a lesson for their repeated failures.” Ex-CM Rawat also accused the BJP of using money power to mislead the voters.
  
  Terming that the ‘good turnout’ at Congress rallies was a ‘clear sign of victory’, he said that people were disappointed with the performance of BJP both at Centre and state levels. “Apart from taking credit for the development works done by the previous Congress government, the BJP has not done anything else for the state,” he added.
  
  Stating that people’s mandate was with the party candidate, the Congress leader said, “As a lawmaker from 2012 to 2017, Jeet Ram brought development to the constituency.”
  
  Meanwhile, BJP spokesperson Munna Singh Chauhan said, “With no issue to campaign, Congress is making all efforts to criticise the BJP government. However, our party has taken several decisions for the welfare of the state in the last 14 months.” He claimed that the people of Tharali were pleased with the performance of Magan Lal Shah and hence the party decided to give his wife a ticket. “She is an active politician and there is no doubt that she will win,” he added.
