PUNE: Son of a tailor from   in Mumbai,   Kiran Prajapati — the topper in the arts stream of the three-year military and academic training at the National Defence Academy — is all set to realize his dream of joining the Indian armed forces in a year from now.

 Mittal, who had opted for the commerce stream after scoring 91% in the Standard XII board exam, cracked the   entrance examination and the Services Selection Board (SSB) interview in the first attempt. “I got inspired to take up a career in the armed forces after joining the National Cadet Corps (NCC) in Standard VIII. The NCC changed my outlook towards the armed forces. This also helped me complete my training at the NDA successfully,” he told TOI on the sidelines of the NDA’s convocation ceremony for the 134th course on Tuesday.
 
 His father, Kiran, runs a tailoring establishment in Malad. He said, “It’s a great occasion for us. No one from our family or relatives has ever served in the armed forces. Mittal has always been brilliant in studies. He himself decided to opt for this career. We supported him. He prepared himself for the NDA exam and cracked it without joining any private coaching class.”
 
 Army subedar G T Reddy, currently posted in Goa, echoed similar feelings for his son, G   Kumar Reddy, who stood first in the science stream. Naveen studied in the Sainik School at Korukonda in   before opting for the NDA.
 
 A second-generation soldier from his family, Naveen said, “My father has been my inspiration and he always supported and encouraged me. He not only instilled discipline but also familiarized me with the ethos and ethics of the Indian army, which helped me to pursue my dream.”
 
 G T Reddy said, “Naveen has been a topper throughout in school. Here, too, he has maintained consistency, which is commendable. While serving in the force, I always had a dream to see my son as an officer. Naveen has not only accomplished my dream but also his own ambition.”
 
 S S Bisht, the topper in the BSc computer science stream, is an alumnus of Delhi Public School, Ghaziabad. He wants to join the special forces of the army.
 
 “I always liked to take part in adventurous activities and that convinced me to opt for a career in the armed forces. After completing a year-long training at the  , I would like to join the special forces of the Indian Army,” Bisht said, adding that every moment spent at the academy was special and would always remain in his memory.
 
 
