CHANDIGARH: At a time when Jats are demanding reservation under the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category in Haryana, Gujjar and other communities have moved the Punjab and   high court seeking OBC quota for admissions in Chandigarh's prestigious   (PEC). 

 The high court has issued notice to the Central government, the UT administration and the PEC authorities to respond by April 23.
 
 A division bench comprising Justice   and Justice   issued the notice after hearing the petition filed by Gujar Samaj Kalyan Parishad, Saini Sabha, Yadav Sabha, Ramgarhia Sabha and others. The petitioners contended that as per the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act, 2006, any   would be required to make adequate reservation for OBCs. "PEC is getting aid from the Centre, but there is no provision of reservation for the admission of OBCs in courses run by it," the petitioners said.
 
 They also referred to the definition of "Central Educational Institution," which includes an institution maintained by or receiving aid from the Central government, whether directly or indirectly, and affiliated to an institution set up by a Central act or a deemed university declared by the UGC.
 
 It was contended that PEC has been declared deemed-to-be university by the UGC and has received substantial aid from the Central government and, therefore, would be obliged to apply the provisions of the Act regarding reservation.
 
 The petitioners said PEC has provided reservation in recruitment to the faculty under the OBC quota, but no such reservation has been provided for admissions in engineering courses. It was also submitted that the associations had filed several representations to the PEC authorities and the administration for providing OBC quota in admissions but no decision was taken. The court was told that the admission in PEC is made through Joint Engineering Examination (JEE), which is scheduled to be held on April 8 (offline) and on April 15 and 16 (online) for the next academic years.
 
 Directions have been sought to reserve seats under OBC quota, which is around 27%, for admission in various engineering courses run by PEC for the upcoming session. 
 
 
