NEW DELHI: Getting a   for   if you live in a   was made easier by National Monuments Authority through its online system last year. But of the 174   monuments in the capital, there are   that require   as NMA doesn’t have land details or area maps. 

 NMA has written to the Delhi government many times, asking for land details so that colour-coded maps could be prepared. Archaeological Survey of India and Indian Space Research Organisation had developed colour coding of maps of centrally-protected monuments in Delhi and Mumbai. These indicated prohibited and regulated zones around monuments. AMASR Act prohibits construction within 100m, and constructions in 101-300m area requires an NOC from the competent authority. 
 
 To make the process easier for online application of NOCs, those who live in the monument controlled zones are asked to refer to the colour-coded maps to determine whether their property falls in the regulated or prohibited area. If the property is outside this 300m area, then no NOC is needed. 
 
 In Delhi, there are 13 monuments for which colour-coded maps have not been prepared. 
 
 “Adequate funds have been released to the state government for engaging agencies for the survey. But we are still awaiting the report as work is yet to be completed. We have written several letters to the chief secretary, secretary (revenue) to expedite this work,” said an official. 
 
 Sources said ASI would work with the civic agencies to authenticate maps. “Maps of monuments like Siri Fort wall is very important as there are issues pending in high court on encroachment,” said an official.
 
 “For monuments where colour-coded maps are available, measuring the distance of an applicant’s property from the monument happens much quicker. If it is less than 100m, permission is denied. If it is 101-300m, then NOCs are given with conditions. Beyond 300m, there is no need for NOC. But for the 13 monuments, applications will not be considered through the single-window system as a physical, on-site verification is necessary. This obviously takes much longer,” said an official.
 
 Some of the structures for which colour-coded maps aren’t available are: a bastion where walls of Jahanpanah and Qila Rai Pithora meet; gates and walls of Kotla Mubarakpur; site of an 1857 siege battery; gateway of Qila Rai Pithora and its walls linking Lal Kot; Badaun gates and others.
 
 
