NEW DELHI: Dreams die hard in a selfish world. And the parents of 14-year-old Raju learnt this the hard way. A promise to provide the boy, a native of a village in Katihar district of Bihar, better education and a good life landed him in a handicrafts unit in   where he was exploited as a child labourer. His ordeal turned for the worse when he went missing 18 months ago.
 
 Since then, his mother stopped eating properly and started keeping unwell. To the family’s respite, a promise was made by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi to Raju’s mother that he would find the boy if he was still alive. The parents then became relentless in their efforts to find their son and refused to give up hope. This is when a pan-India search was launched across child care institutions (CCI) and raids were conducted at factories of traffickers by a team of activists from   ( ). To everyone’s surprise, Raju surfaced in a government-run home for children in Uttarakhand. Aphotograph sent to CCI’s in different states made the reunion possible. On Saturday, Satyarthi in an emotional tweet along with a photograph of Raju’s reunion with his mother posted: “For this moment my activists in @BBAIndia searched 1722 children’s homes across India and raided 4 factories.” He further tweeted, “Every child matters, every childhood matters.”
 
 This case yet again brings to fore the urgent need to introduce   and integrate it with the database of “track the missing child” and centralised data of child care institutions. 
 
 Data from   shows there are around 2,06,889 children in child care institutions across the country. Of these, 6,712 belong to other states.
 
 Till March 7, even Raju was one of them till CWC of Haridwar informed about a boy who they felt resembled the 12 year old in the photograph. BBA activists said Raju could have been traced earlier if the database of CCIs and “track the missing child” portal was integrated and the face matching software was in place. The parents of Raju had been eagerly waiting to take the traumatised child back home to meet his brother and sisters. “Ab kabhi pardes nahin bejengey bachchon ko (I’ll never send my children to foreign lands now),” said the father, who works as a mason in Gurgaon. The boy’s mother, a housewife, told TOI that she ate her food peacefully only after getting reunited with her missing son.
 
 The thoughts of returning to his village and resuming his studies bring a smile on Raju’s face, though the challenges arising out of poverty remain. Since his rescue, Raju hasn’t spoken much and his counsellors feel he is under trauma and needs time with his family to heal. How he went missing from   and who took him to Dehradun is still a mystery. Raju’s father said one Ale Rasul known to the family brought the boy to Delhi. The child was forced to work in the handicrafts unit and never sent to school. The father met Raju once at Turkman Gate, but the next time he went to check on him the child was missing. That was May 26, 2016.
 
 Rasul surrendered when the investigations began. The determination of Raju’s parents kept the BBA activists on the move reaching out to states, CWCs, state child rights commissioners and CCIs. A BBA activist and lawyer Bhuwan Ribhu told TOI that when a child goes missing or is trafficked, it impacts the entire family. “The missing and trafficked children are not just numbers, they are real people and each case must be treated with utmost seriousness. Raju’s case shows how urgently we need face recognition software. Despite clear directions from the Delhi high court wherein   was asked to introduce face recognition software to track missing children in February, it is yet to happen,” he emphasised.
 
