CHANDIGARH: After   enhanced the tuition fee for various courses, the senate is mulling an overall 5%   for colleges affiliated to the university in Chandigarh and Punjab. The maximum hike recommended by a committee is Rs 1,000. The matter will be tabled in the senate meeting scheduled on May 27.

 In a meeting of the working committee constituted by the vice-chancellor to revise, rationalize fee structure, examination fee and all other charges for the 2018-19 session on September 29, 2017, it was discussed that private universities had introduced several degree courses and were attracting more students, resulting in less admissions in PU-affiliated colleges. It was held that if the fee is increased by a huge margin, the number of students in the affiliated colleges would further drop.
 
 The senate will also take up the matter of extending the appointment of Prof Emanual Nahar, USOL, as the dean of student welfare, and Prof Neena Caplash, department of biotechnology, for another year with effect from June 1, 2018.
 
 The senate will also decide on appointment of Prof Ranjan Kumar, department of physics, as associate dean student welfare from June 1, 2018.
 
 In the April 29 meeting, the syndicate had approved the extension of DSW Prof Nahar and DSW (women) Neena Caplash till August 31, 2018. Prof Ranjan Kumar of department of Physics had been appointed as Associate DSW till August 31, 2018.
 
 However, a discussion on extending Nahar’s tenure cropped up in the senate meeting on May 6. Senator Anu Chatrath had raised the issue saying that when DSWs were always given a year’s extension, Nahar should be granted the same. Chatrath insisted that the house was unanimous to give Nahar an extension of a year for his term as DSW and the decision should be taken there and then. However,   vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover said the item was not on the agenda and could not have been discussed.
 
 Moreover, the appointment of Shankarji Jha, dean of university instructions, who has already assumed the charge of DUI, will also be tabled in the senate for final approval.
 
 
