Vellore: Criticising the Tamil Nadu government’s announcement of   and calling it an ‘anti-people’ policy, the political parties in the state have announced a state-wide demonstration on January 27 demanding that the Palaniswami-led government roll back the hike. 

 Extending solidarity to the   party’s state-wide demonstration on Saturday at the district headquarters in this regard, the leaders of  ,   and Congress have asked their members to participate in large numbers in the agitation in their respective districts. They would urge the government to revoke its decision. 
 
 Meanwhile, sidelined AIAMDK leader and MLA of RK Nagar T T V Dhinakaran demanded that the government roll back the bus fare hike immediately. Instead of finding alternative sources to overcome the cash crisis, the government has imposed this burden on people by increasing the bus fares, thus betraying their trust, he said. 
 
 President of Tamil Nadu Congress Committee S Thirunavukkarasar, in a statement, said the people are venting their ire over the sudden and steep bus fare hike through media. 
 
 The commuters will now have to pay Rs 372 for a trip from Chennai to Trichy. 
 
 Earlier they were paying Rs 235. Also, the passengers now have to pay Rs 695 and Rs 778 to travel from Chennai to Tirunelveli and Chennai to Nagercoil, respectively. 
 
 It is sad to see the government, with a single announcement, hike the bus fare over 60 per cent to augment its revenue by Rs 3,600 crore, he said, adding, “It is condemnable. There can’t be a more worse anti-people policy than this.” 
 
 Stating that the state government cannot justify its act in any way, MDMK leader Vaiko said the party would take part in the DMK-led demonstration. 
 
 Refuting the government’s announcement on bus fare hike pointing towards the hike in diesel price, he said that the central and state governments have not passed the benefits to the people, when the crude oil price dropped by 52%, since 2011. 
 
 However, it continued to levy VAT and sales tax for the petroleum products. Indeed, the TN government increased VAT from 27% to 34% for the same last March, he said in a release. 
 
 The TNSTC has incurred losses due to “mismanagement of the government and corrupt practices in the transport department”, he said, adding that the report of the central government on the transport corporations in the country divulged that 78.3% of the buses operated in Tamil Nadu were damaged and had past their prime. 
 
 CPI state secretary P Mutharasan also stated that they would join the demonstration on January 27 at the district headquarters.
 
 
