NAGPUR: The face off between   and BJP leaders in   is delaying inauguration of five big development projects worth over Rs30 crore. Congress’ former guardian minister Nitin Raut said the projects are complete but lying idle for last three years. BJP MLA from North Nagpur Dr Milind Mane claims the projects were incomplete, and he is working to complete them.

 Panchavati Nagar resident Sheikh   told TOI a library-cum-community centre was constructed the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) three years ago but is lying idle since Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) was not ready to take it up. 
 
 “There is a sprawling ground in our area but it is in bad condition for last many years. We hoped the construction of community centre will help, but in vain. Now, the building has turned into a den of anti-social elements. Windows and gates have been destroyed. The concrete structure too has started to cave in at some places,” he said.
 
 Local BJP corporator   said Raut developed the centre so he will be consulted and the structure brought into use. “There were no lights at the ground and there is nothing inside the centre. I sanctioned funds for lights. Some works are required in the centre before it can be opened for public,” he said.
 
 However, Raut says the five big projects, including Panchavati Nagar library, have been destroyed by neglect and bad politics of the BJP. He listed a swimming pool and outdoor sports facilities at Vaishali Nagar for Rs 10 crore; two sports complexes at Ahuja Nagar and Automotive Square costing Rs 13.50 crore; first ever digital library at Lashkaribagh costing Rs 8 crore; and two libraries at Patankar Square and Vinobha Bhave Nagar.
 
 “All these projects were completed three years ago. But BJP ruled NMC is not allowing other organizations like District Sports Office (DSO) to take over the projects, and neither are they doing anything themselves. Students, sportspersons, children, and senior citizens are crying for amenities. I brought all these projects but BJP is not inaugurating them since they will not get any credit. Ultimately, the people are at the receiving end,” Raut said.
 
 Refuting Raut’s allegations, Mane said all projects were incomplete and he was taking the initiative to complete them for the public.
 
  “The swimming pool required Rs 1.20 crore more for completion. I sanctioned the funds and ensured it was handed over to NMC. Now, private agency will be appointed by NMC to operate and maintain it. Sports complex at Ahuja Nagar was completed recently and will be handed over to DSO. Sports complex at Automotive Square was also completed and a football club is being run there. The digital library’s structure was complete, but lacked computers and books. I got approval of funds for books and other materials, and it will be inaugurated soon,” he said.
 
 Mane added Rs130 crore Ambedkar Convention Centre was approved during Raut’s tenure but work had not started. “Raut got approval for only Rs 20 crore. I brought Rs 52 crore and another Rs 30 crore is required. Similarly, Raut approved Rs 30 lakh for senior citizens’ recreation centre without identifying any land. I got sanction for the land. I also identified the land for Haridas Smarak,” he said.
 
 Mane said he was not taking any credit for completing the projects, and neither should Raut. “All projects are of the government and for the public,” he said.
 
