
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 A: It is survival of fittest. From the days of trust vote and tabling our first budget, our objective has been to protect Amma’s (former chief minister J Jayalalithaa) government. We will overcome the challenges thrown at us. Our only agenda is to fulfil her dreams. Our rivals may predict our fall, but the assembly election will take place only in 2021. There is no doubt we will return. Popular schemes of our leader are a hit. The Amma scooter scheme for women will be officially launched on her birthday (February 24). There is good support and encouragement from the people.
 
 
 
 
 A: We did not seek the appointment of President, PM nor governor for the function. We shall invite them for other grand events. It is a wrong notion being created by the opposition that we are submissive to the Centre. Such Goebbelsian propaganda can never win people’s heart. We will not lose our independence and will not give up federal principles.
 
 
 
 
 A: It will take two days for the Union finance minister to spell out schemes and programmes for each state. It is for the states to be smart and get the allocation by submitting proposals. The state has been allocated Rs 2,800 crore under railways. So, it is wrong to say the state does not get its due. It’s efficiency will be known at the end of the year. Location for setting up AIIMS will be sorted out soon. As far as NEET is concerned, we are of the firm opinion that we should be exempted.
 
 
 
 
 A: We have guaranteed a liveable state with robust infrastructure, communal harmony and safety for women. Tamil Nadu is a peaceful and investor-friendly state.
 
 
 
 
 A: Neither public nor MLAs are keen on snap polls as it involves huge expense. It is only (DMK working president)   and (rebel leader) Dhinakaran who are keen. They may conspire together, but it will not affect the government. Even the   MLAs do not want elections. We have proven our majority in the past and we will prove it again.
 
 
 
 
 A: The matter is subjudice. No comments. All I can say is, if any cadre, who was expelled or removed from the party, submits a letter of regret, the high command will consider re-inducting them. But, the Sasikala clan will never be taken back.
 
