NEW DELHI: India are ranked No 1 in the ICC Test Championship after a heavy home season, and the tour of Sri Lanka this year, but have never won a series in South Africa. Here’s a look at the key issues facing India ahead of the first Test match against South Africa starting January 5 at Newlands. 

 
 Since he returned to India’s starting XI in July, on account of injuries to Murali Vijay and KL Rahul, Dhawan has made 550 runs in eight innings, with two centuries and two half-centuries, all at an alarming strike-rate of 92.43. But all five Tests were played against Sri Lanka, home and away. Dhawan averages 19 in two Tests in South Africa, with a best of 29. Away from Asia, in 13 Tests his average is 29.91, with a century in New Zealand and one fifty each in Australia, West Indies and New Zealand. These are numbers that need improving, if India are to succeed overseas and if Dhawan is to keep KL Rahul on the bench. Ravi Shastri, India’s coach, has backed the left-hander for what he brings to the opening combination - aggression and experience to go with Vijay’s own expertise and Zen-like approach at the crease. A failure in South Africa will easily nullify the runs stacked by Dhawan in the subcontinent, and leave his position in jeopardy with five Tests in England and four in Australia later in 2018. 
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 
 After Hardik Pandya’s bumper first series in Sri Lanka last year, in which he scored a fifty on debut, followed by a record-breaking century and partnership-snapping wickets, India’s new allrounder was born. The talk was of how he could be a big asset in South Africa. But Pandya has not played a Test since mid-August, and such has been Rohit’s form across all formats since he returned to international cricket in June - 1793 runs in 32 games - that he is proving extremely difficult to leave out. Given the potency of South Africa’s pace attack, in conditions where Indian batsmen have collectively struggled over the past 25 years, and there is a belief that India, deep down, will be wary of exposing Pandya, all of three Tests old, at No 6. Since he returned to India’s Test XI, Rohit has scores of 102*, 65 and 50*. Then, in the span of a week, came a third ODI double-century and the joint-fastest century in Twenty20 internationals, off just 35 balls. Such outstanding form could prove impossible to ignore once India’s think tank sits down to identify the No 6 position. 
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 
 
 With conditions in South Africa expected, as always, to aid the fast bowlers, India will once again face the dilemma of playing one spinner or two. During the last tour there in 2013, R Ashwin played one Test and Ravindra Jadeja the other. Ashwin went wicketless in the Johannesburg draw, sending down 42 overs, and was dropped for Jadeja in Durban, who took six wickets in one innings. Jadeja is currently the No. 3 spinner in Tests, with Ashwin at fourth (in the allrounder rankings, they are second and third) and are coming off successful years, with 54 and 56 wickets respectively. The BCCI revealed on Wednesday that Jadeja has been suffering from a “viral illness” and that his fitness would be assessed on the morning of the first Test. This uncertainty, and Ashwin’s more matured and well-rounded batting, could see the offspinner get the nod. 
 
 
 
 : 35 of Rahane’s 64 dismissals in Tests have come to spin. Widely acknowledged as India’s most improved Test batsman overseas in the past four years, he managed a paltry 17 runs in five innings against Sri Lanka. That translated to his first Test series without a single meaningful contribution. Ravi Shastri, India’s coach, has seen Rahane’s development as a world-class batsman from close range and recently commented that he did not feel there was much tinkering to be done to his game. Rahane is a poor starter and has plenty of issues against spin early in an innings; how he approaches Keshav Maharaj, a deceptive left-arm spinner who took 48 wickets in 11 Tests last year, could be crucial. 
 
 
 
 Mohammed Shami is a certainty, and given his recent success and batting ability, Bhuvneshwar Kumar should also get the nod. That leaves India to choose a third fast bowler. Ishant is the most experienced member of this squad when it comes to Tests in South Africa, having featured in five there. He is also the most capped player, with 79 matches to his name. Ravi Shastri, India’s coach, believes Ishant is bowling the best he ever has. Umesh has lost a fair bit of sheen since he finished India’s busy home season with his reputation enhanced. He was off-key against Sri Lanka and completely outdone by his rookie Vidarbha partner Rajneesh Gurbani on days four and five of the recent Ranji Trophy semi-final. Ishant, in his fourth tour of South Africa, looks likely to be picked unless that extra shot of pace that Umesh offers is preferred. 
 
