KOLKATA: It was difficult to believe that it was Kolkata Knight Riders’ home match against the   as a sea of yellow jerseys filled stands at the Eden Gardens, reducing the ‘Purple Brigade’ to a minority here on Thursday.

 
 
 
 But on the field the hosts protected their bastion well and kept their playoff hopes alive by recording a six-wicket victory over  . It was also sweet revenge for   who had fallen short in Chennai earlier in the tournament.
 
 CSK are now second on the table with 12 points from nine matches while KKR rose to third spot with 10 points from same number of matches.
 
 Once again, KKR spin trio of  , Piyush Chawla and Kuldeep Yadav did a fine job and were largely instrumental in reining CSK’s big hitters to 177 for five. 
 
 
 
 Dinesh Karthik won the toss and opted to chase. KKR’s faith in youngsters paid dividends on Thursday as young   came up with a sublime knock to help his side reach home in 17.4 overs.
 
 After getting a chance to bat up the order for the first time in his maiden  , the 18-year-old India U-19 World Cup-winning star displayed both class and maturity in equal measure in course of a 36-ball 83-run fifth-wicket stand with skipper Karthik that sealed the issue for the hosts.
 
 Gill stayed unbeaten on a polished 57 off 36 balls with six fours and two sixes. His senior partner Karthik was also undefeated on an 18-ball 45 with seven fours and a six.
 
 Earlier CSK failed to boost their run rate as the KKR bowlers maintained a good line and length and did not allow much width to the batsmen to free their arms.
 
 As a result, boundaries were hard to come by. In spite of Mahendra Singh Dhoni being in the middle, CSK managed only 31 runs, losing three wickets, between the 10th and 15th overs.
 
 Narine, who went wicketless in the last two matches, was the pick of KKR bowlers, returning with figures of two for 20 in his four overs.
 
 The packed house that was itching for some fireworks from Dhoni’s bat, was left disappointed as the wicketkeeper-batsman failed to break free after his team had lost early wickets.
 
 Piyush Chawla got the first breakthrough castling Faf du Plessis (27, 15b, 4x4) with a googly. Shane Watson and Suresh Raina succumbed to the pressure of the scoreboard and departed in successive overs as KKR came back strongly. The Aussie tried to break free but was caught near deep mid-wicket boundary by Shivam Mavi in Narine’s second over. Raina followed suit in the next over being caught by Mitchell Johnson while trying to hit Kuldeep over long-on.
 
