LUCKNOW: The plan to set up a   in   was put together in 18 days flat, with bureaucrats “working night and day” to hammer out the details,   said.

 Sitharaman had offered the corridor to UP on February 2, when   had come to invite her to the investors’ summit in the state. “She said there is budgetary provision for two defence corridors. If UP is interested, it can become a possibility,” Yogi said at the summit on Thursday.
 
 Addressing a session at the summit, Sitharaman said she had made the offer hesitantly. After he left, she spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who wasted no time in giving a go-ahead for the corridor in UP, she said.
 
 “They (bureaucrats) did it in 18 days and without complaining once,” Sitharaman said, bringing smiles on the faces of top bureaucrats sitting on the dais.
 
 
 FOR DEFENCE CORRIDOR
 
 My team from bureaucracy, army will visit every place in UP: Sitharaman
 
 From February 2, when I informed secretary defence production about the plan, bureaucrats both at the Centre and in UP intensively planned the minute details jointly, working day and night to make it possible for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce the scheme on Wednesday here in Lucknow,” the defence minister said.
 
 “Aaj kal ke mahaul mein (in the current work environment), I would like to congratulate the bureaucracy both at the Centre and UP for working so efficiently in such a short time,” Sitharaman said.
 
 Pointing to the various ordinance factories and defence related PSUs in Kanpur alone, the minister said that the fundamentals for defence production are present in the region which need to be activated and scaled up.
 
 Sitharaman said she was determined to make the corridor a reality. “My team will visit every place in UP. ‘My team’ means not only the civil bureaucracy but also army personnel who deal with procurement. All who use the equipment on the borders would also be included in the team and they would go to Jhansi, Aligarh, Kanpur and Lucknow, and talk to everyone interested in joining defence production while making them aware of what the Army will need in the next 50 years,” she said.
 
 The defence ministry has come up with an online portal which will help in guiding entrepreneurs about Army’s requirement, Sitharaman said. The ministry is ready to develop its own common facility centres if private players are interested in cluster production, she said.
 
 The ministry will also explore the possibility of linking small entrepreneurs and MSMEs with tier-1 PSUs such as HAL, she said.
 
 “What is happening in the state in the past few days (the investors’ summit) is just phenomenal,” the minister said.
 
 Earlier, CM Yogi said UP is ready to implement reforms for removing hurdles for industries. The Nivesh Mitra portal is one such step, he said, adding that the online platform enables investors to file proposals on 70 sectors of 20 departments.
 
 
 
 
