Gurgaon: The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) is working on an environment management plan in a concerted move aimed at increasing the city’s  , boosting   tables and reducing pollution levels over the next couple of decades.

 Officials in the know said under this ambitious initiative, efforts would be made to increase the green cover from the existing 3-4% up to 8% of the total urban landscape spread over around 670sqkm.
 
 “The city’s population is expected to reach 4 million by 2040. And as per the United Nations’ guidelines, there should be minimum 9 square metres of green cover for every individual. That means, the city needs to have minimum 36sqkm of greenery over the next 20 years,” said MD Sinha, additional CEO, GMDA.
 
 Sinha said GMDA would soon conduct a survey to assess the total area under green cover in the city currently. “Different departments have their own plantation targets. But, we don’t have enough trees on the ground. And to make the situation worse, we hear reports of tree felling in different parts of the city daily,” he rued, underling the need for a joint drive in this regard.
 
 Apart from focusing on tree plantation and increasing greenery, the plan will also address other environmental concerns and will put in place guidelines to maintain an environmental balance in the city. 
 
 For instance, GMDA will come up with rules and guidelines for preventing discharge of sewage in open areas or water bodies.
 
 “There is an urgent need to stop discharge of untreated sewage into water bodies. We will come up with strict guidelines to address the issue. Dirty water can be treated and used for horticultural purposes in parks,” Sinha said, adding the city currently gets four million litre of treated water every day.
 
 Further, the GMDA CEO added treated water could also be discharged into water bodies, such as drains near Wazirabad, which would help recharge groundwater tables.
 
 Officials said GMDA was also working with MCG on the implementation of a green plan. Installing street furniture and sculptures, cleaning roads, pruning trees, planting creepers along major roads and fruit trees in parks are some of the proposals that were finalised under the MCG’s green plan, during a meeting earlier this month.
 
 Also, it has been decided that green belts will be developed along the city’s major roads, like the ones connecting Atul Kataria Chowk to Gurugram bus stand and Delhi border.
 
 Sources said though this plan was originally drawn up the corporation, GMDA, which owns most roads in the city, would be working on the plan too.
 
 
