GURUGRAM: The Haryana State Industry and Infrastructure Corporation ( ), which is facing financial trouble owing to high debt levels, is now relying on land auctions for relief. 

 The industrial corporation has already put two prime land parcels in Gurgaon up for auction.
 
 While one of the properties is the 11.76-acre land in  , which has a reserve price of Rs 676 crore, the other is a 20-acre land that is situated off   expressway. It is part of a key land parcel allocated for the much-hyped Global City Project. HSIIDC is also auctioning 1,327 industrial plots across the state.
 
 “The industrial corporation has a debt of more than Rs, 12,000 crore, and the sale of land is a way to generate some money and tackle the financial crunch,” said a senior HSIIDC official requesting anonymity.
 
 Gurgaon, according to him, demands the most premium rates for the industry, and hence two prime land parcels have been put up for sale in the city. However, in places like Gurgaon and Manesar, there aren’t many plots even available for sale.
 
 For instance, of the 1,327 industrial plots that HSIIDC plans to auction, only three are in Gurgaon. 
 
 The two prime land parcels in Udyog Vihar and off Dwarka expressway are not part of that. Also, 216 such plots are in   and 11 are in Manesar. 
 
 Sources said the government wass keen on extending the industrial area, however the current fund crunch is not allowing it to do that either.
 
 TOI had reported in September 2017 that HSIIDC was facing a debt of Rs 9,775 crore owing to increased land acquisition and enhanced compensation to allottees across major industrial projects.
 
 In a reply to an RTI application filed by Gurgaon-based activist  , it was revealed that the industrial body owes Rs 9,775 crore to banks, in an addition to all the funds loaned by the corporation till May 2017 for 18 different industrial projects. 
 
 The accumulated debt is now around Rs. 12,000 crore, said sources.
 
 There are multiple reasons for HSIIDC’s cash crunch, and people within the department say that enhanced compensation has been the biggest burden. 
 
 Additionally, the projects such as Global City Project on which the government had high hopes of revenue generation, have failed to take off.
 
 The industrial corporation has not even seen much demand for industrial plots and hence whether the move to auction industrial plots pays off or not remains to be seen.
 
