

 There is one big message from the recent by-elections that comes ringing in from  . It has tactical implications for the politics that will unfold in the run-up to 2019: hypothetically, if there are any plans afoot to “finish off” another politician (perhaps someone from a neighbouring state) by sending her or him to jail or encircling her or him in corruption and income tax cases, it will only be counter-productive and may end up evoking sympathy for that individual.
 
 The manner in which the voter base of the   has remained intact, in spite of chief   being in jail in neighbouring Jharkhand, suggests that corruption charges do not stick to organically powerful subaltern leaders. On the contrary, they feed into the suspicion that only politicians from the lower castes actually land in jail while the savarnas are too sophisticated to ever be caught.
  
 The second reality that comes through is this: In both UP and Bihar, we have seen the success of the next generation of Yadav boys. Dynasty is not democratic in principle but it works due to the power of association:   has campaigned vigorously since his father went to jail (and the family was put under the scanner); but he has also succeeded because he is the son of Lalu, a figure both loved and hated in Bihar, depending on which section of society you come from. Part of the campaign arsenal was also a widely circulated letter Lalu wrote after his conviction. In the letter, he wrote passionately against the “Manuvadi conspiracy” to keep poor people, the backwards, Dalits and minorities away from “direct control of their resources”. He also said he was not afraid of the future.
  
 There is some important arithmetic in the nature of the two seats that the RJD retained. Araria has a 60% Yadav and Muslim population, so we can interpret that as the MY equation still working for the RJD. More significant is the win in Jehanabad, where Dalits also voted in large numbers for the RJD. Former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi (who shifted from the   to the RJD 11 days before voting) certainly contributed to the surge in Dalit support, particularly of his Musahar sub-caste. Simultaneously, what this also implies is that chief minister Nitish Kumar’s constituency among social groups referred to as Mahadalits and EBCs (Extremely Backward Castes) in Bihar, is unravelling.
  
 There is a certain inevitability in Nitish Kumar heading to the point where he could be expendable in future calculations of the BJP, which did win one of the three seats where by-elections were recently held in Bihar. Nitish Kumar mattered in the era when the   needed a social justice-secular face to negotiate realities in the state. But the BJP has grown while Nitish alienated many of his own supporters, when he went against the mandate of 2015 and ditched the RJD to form a government with the BJP last year.
  
 Arithmetic will keep the BJP and JD(U) together a while longer; but there is now no good reason why the BJP should not posit its deputy CM, Sushil Modi as a future stand-alone leader in Bihar. Unlike   in UP,   and Lalu, Nitish Kumar has never had a substantial voter bloc of his own and actually grew in stature with the help of the BJP. With the stature diminished, there are few good reasons for the BJP to keep propping him up.
 In June this year, Lalu Prasad Yadav will become 70 years old and will be behind bars for some years thereafter. His journey in Indian politics has been audacious and significant. He was the marker of social justice changes in Bihar where he gave people a great sense of empowerment. The anarchy he then presided over was, I believe, a deliberate shake-down of the shockingly feudal and unequal social order that prevailed in the Bihar I first visited decades ago. His great failure lay in his lack of interest in administration or bringing order after the storm. Unlike what a Mayawati did, he did not create structures in administration, so busy was he in politics.
  
 That politics has taken some of the most audacious turns in contemporary Indian history. The first time Lalu the CM went to jail in 1997, he compelled wife Rabri Devi to step out of the kitchen into the chief minister’s chair. Two decades later, his son has set out with the same slogans of social justice and secularism that his father used so effectively to make a mark in politics. It was also perhaps ideal for the RJD that Lalu was actually away from the scene and a fresh face such as Tejashwi picked up the cudgels. When the old gets jaded, the young renew life and possibilities.
 
