Thirty nine-year-old  , who has been selected as   by  , is upset with actor Salman Khan for using derogatory words against his community ( ). He is taking it as an opportunity to mark his community’s presence in Indian society. A day after his appointment, TOI spoke to him. Experts 

 
 
 
 It’s a proud moment for me that I have been provided with an opportunity to make a mark in the society. I belong to Valmiki community and people still do not notice our work. Recently, Salman Khan in an interview spoke derogatory words against sanitation workers. It’s wrong. They are role models for many youth in this country. If they (celebrities) will not give respect to a particular section of society, even others won’t. My appointment set an example that each of us can make difference in the society. 
 
 
 
 After I was suspended from my job in 2010, I am ferrying young schoolkids for living for the past three years. I have observed that children were throwing wrappers on the roads after eating chocolates and chips. After I failed to stop them, I bought a small dustbin for them and asked them to throw garbage in it. My idea was supported by the kids. 
 
 
 
 
 I was a piece of mockery. My neighbours, even my wife used to laugh at me. People are not much aware of sanitation in the area where I live. However, they are proud of me now. 
 
 
 
 
 I am practising this for past two years. In my autorickshaw, I also give 10% discount to armymen, pregnant women and sanitation workers. I believe both soldiers and sanitation workers are doing national duty. If all sanitation workers go on strike for one day, imagine the situation in the country?
 
 
 
 
 I had gone to drop a customer in mayor’s area on Monday. I saw his board outside the house and randomly walked inside. I apprised him about the work I am doing to make surroundings clean. He appreciated my work and instantly told me that you will be the city’s brand ambassador. This was a big reward for me. 
 
 
 
 
 I am a drop out from Bhatkhande Sangeet Vidyapeeth in Lucknow. I believe that everyone in this society whether rich or poor, literate or illiterate, want to live in a clean environment. However, poor people cannot maintain that as there are no proper drainage system in their society. Garbage collection is not done in a proper way. If all the opportunities are provided to them, they would surely maintain cleanliness. 
 
 
