
With an ensemble cast of powerful actors like Renuka Shahane, Richa Chadha, Sharman Joshi, Masumeh, Pulkit Samrat and an intriguing trailer, '3 Storeys' seems to be a serious film. And so, you are pleasantly surprised when you hear the lively songs of the film that encourage you to press the replay button. 
 
 The first track, 'Bas Tu Hai', a love ballad that’s been set to tune by Clinton Cerejo, begins with a guitar prelude by Warren Mendonsa. The strumming of the strings and the piano strain, merges nicely with Arijit Singh’s voice in this delightfully romantic ditty. Puneet Krishna’s heart-felt lyrics win you over with their simplicity and as the music gains pace, the powerful chorus stays with you. Though Jonita Gandhi’s vocal strengths stay unused, the talented singer makes her presence felt in the little part she gets to play in the song. At a little over two minutes, you are left feeling that the song finishes far too quickly. But then, good things come in small packages, no? Clinton has also composed 'Aazadiyaan' and 'Zaroori Bewakoofi' that are yet to be released (at the time of going to press).
 
 The next track 'Raasleela', composed by Amjad Nadeem, is the perfect example of contemporary Bollywood music with a seamless amalgamation of the traditional folk genre with pop. If you are an ’80s child or earlier, you will find this track reminiscent of Leslie Lewis and Suneeta Rao’s classic Hindi Pop, 'Paree Hoon Main' (Album: Dhuan, 1991)
 
 Sung by Sumedha Karmahe (who has earlier sung 'Toota Jo Kabhi Tara', 'A Flying Jatt', 2016) and 'Nazm Nazm '('Bareilly Ki Barfi', 2017, this version was not used in the film) with live guitars and percussion by Shomu Seal and Nishad Chandra respectively, this is one song that makes you want to break into a traditional garba as soon as it begins. 
 This track is completely owned by the singer. Sumedha’s honeyed voice is replete with masterful nuances and her tonal quality is exceptional, with a certain warmth that does not fail to touch you. With this track, Sumedha certainly becomes one singer to reckon with, in Bollywood.
 
 
 
