LUDHIANA: News of expansion of the state cabinet after MC elections in Ludhiana has left MLAs and their supporters hopeful of getting a chance to represent the industrial town at state level. Despite being an industrial hub, Ludhiana has been neglected for the most part as far as getting recognition in the state cabinet is concerned. There were a few names from Ludhiana in the previous SAD-BJP regime but not at a prime position. This time, the frontrunners are   MLAs Rakesh Pandey, Surinder Dawar and Bharat Bhushan Ashu. 

 After senior leaders like   advised CM Captain   to give a chance to first-timers, supporters of first-time   Sanjeev Talwar are also lobbying in his favour. Supporters of various MLAs are making rounds of Delhi and Chandigarh to bring the senior leadership around to their point of view. One of Pandey’s supporters said he is the senior-most MLA in the city and so should be given a chance. He also said he has rich experience back him. A supporter of MLA Dawar said he has always remained present in times of need and has been loyal to the party. Supporters of Ashu said he is the only one who talks about the entire city whike others restrict themselves to development work in their respective wards. 
 
  from North constituency, Rakesh Pandey is the senior most contender for the cabinet rank. Pandey refused to comment on expansion of the cabinet but said he hoped that Ludhiana got recognition. However, he said, it would be the decision of the party high command and CM Captain Amarinder Singh.
 
 MLAs’ Track Record 
 
 
 
 
 Development work: During his tenure, Rakesh Pandey got approval for various development works in his constituency, including construction of roads, installation of LED street lights, laying missing sewerage lines and development of parks is included. Development works worth Rs 9.5 crore have been approved.
 
 Vision: In the coming months, he plans to focus on completion of work that has been approved. The first priority is to give basic amenities to people and fulfil promises made to them
 
 
 
 
 Development work: After the Congress came to power, Dawar got approval for various development works in his constituency. The highlight is covering the drain in Shivaji Nagar at a cost of Rs 6 crore. The project will be inaugurated in the days to come. Many other works have also been inaugurated. 
 
 Vision: Covering of the drain will solve many problems of residents. In future, he plans to focus on works related to public amenities
 
 
 
 
 Development work: He got approval for various development works worth Rs 150to Rs 200 crore, in which installation of static compactors, development of leisure valleys and construction of Pakhowal Road ROB is included. Funds have been arranged through the MC, Ludhiana Improvement Trust and   (GLADA).
 
 Vision: Execution of the works will be the top priority. Despite facing financial crunch, these development works have been approved. While the pace is slow, hopefully, it will improve.
 
 
