Well, Chennaiites! All that happiness and frenzy of the roaring comeback by namma   (CSK) in the  , and those plans of catching live the home matches at Chepauk… kill them! Plan no more, for, we’ve protested our team right out of the city! What with security concerns, an apathetic government and the police throwing the towels in, to boot, all the league matches to be held in the city have been shifted elsewhere. Obviously, not everyone is happy! What has the   got to do with cricket matches? What have we gained out of this entire hoopla and hooliganism? Will this protest culture do us any good? Have we let the success (sort of) of the jallikattu protests go to our head? Former players, cricket fans and the public open up, and ask more such questions…

 
  
 It’s a very delicate issue and it needs to be dealt with properly by politicians and those in power. But it’s extremely unfair to vent your ire on sports. I have been a sportsperson and I know how important fans’ support is for a sport to grow. Fans have waited for more than 1,000 days to come and watch CSK play in Chepauk. It is really unfair to attack fans and players to gain attention. I have always seen sports bring people together, not tear them apart. I hope people see the merit in sports, rather than use it to divide and rule. People should carry out protests at a place that is justified, and in a right manner. Sport is an easy target because of its exposure. And, a cricket tournament is a huge stage and is very easy to gain national attention. If a shoe is thrown inside the stadium, millions of people are watching that; it will surely get attention. And rather than aiming it right, it is sad that we are looking for sensationalism by attacking a sport and its fans.
 — Suhail Chandhok, sports presenter
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 I hope that shifting of the matches will be of some use to sort out issues in the state. The franchise and the organisers have shifted it to Pune to help the cause. It’s a big thing for  , but they are like a family and wherever CSK plays, its supporters will be there. Is this the right way to protest? The truth is, only a certain section of people is thinking on these lines, and sadly, nothing can be done about what they do and think. Hopefully, what they’re fighting for gets settled amicably, so things can go back to being normal. It’s not only with the cricket matches, they are also protesting against the prime minister’s visit. So, things are not as peaceful as it normally is, in the state. 
 — L Sivaramakrishnan, former Indian cricketer
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Chepauk has been a fortress for CSK. It is a huge blow to the team because of the loss of home advantage. They have an excellent home record, maybe only second to Rajasthan Royals, when you take numbers into consideration. It is also a loss to people of Chennai and true CSK fans as they won’t get to watch their own team play at home. I don’t know how the issue (Cauvery) is going to be resolved by CSK not playing their home matches in Chennai. I seriously don’t understand the connection, that’s all I can say.
 — S Badrinath, former cricketer and commentator
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 On the personal front, I think this protest was the only way to get attention from other states. Since cricket is a popular sport, they chose this arena. Protesters had already formed human chains, staged road rokos and showed their dissent in other ways to bring Cauvery issue to the forefront. But it was only when they took on cricket that everybody started talking about it. I am a die-hard fan of cricket. If the Cauvery protests were not happening in the state, people would have worn their yellow jerseys and cheered for their team. People are not against cricket per se. They just want the water issue to be sorted. But from a sportsperson's point of view, I think it’s a huge blow to cricket.
 — Adam Sinclair, former hockey player
 
 
  
 
 
 
 It is absolutely ridiculous. I don’t know how Karnataka will share water because CSK is not playing their matches in Chennai. We should be putting pressure on politicians and carry out vigorous protests that will disturb the politicians. Now that they have successfully stopped CSK from playing their home matches in Chennai, will Cauvery Management Board be formed? We should be protesting at the right places and targeting right people. I am not saying this only as a CSK fan, I don’t really see how this will help us get water from Karnataka. Stopping a sport will only get us attention and that won’t resolve the issue. There are several other ways to get attention, which will actually help us solve the issue.
 — Vengadesh R, CSK fan
 
 
  
 
 
 
 I think it is completely ridiculous to mix sports with other issues. What do Chennai Super Kings players have to do with Cauvery issue? Why would protesters hit the fans? It’s just horrible. Everyone target sports because they don’t react in a manner that will create problem to the protesters. You can’t do this to a political party or a businessman and get away. What will BCCI do? It will just protect its players. That’s why sportspersons and sports bodies are vulnerable. It is also a huge revenue loss to Chennai.
 — Arjun Narendran, National Touring Car Champion
 
 
  
 
 
 
 They wanted the matches to be shifted and now, they've succeeded in doing it. It's not a big deal for us fans. If not in Chennai, we will go and watch the CSK matches wherever it happens. I will be travelling to Pune for the team's 'home' matches. I have to arrange funds for that. I was roughed up on Tuesday near the stadium. Even then, I went and watched the match. I was one of the first ones to buy the CSK-KKR match ticket. Is it right to not let us watch the match after buying tickets? All this protest developed only in the last few days.
 — Saravanan, CSK fan 
 
 
 
 Sri Lankan players were pulled out of IPL matches in 2013 due to Lankan Tamil issue
 Chennai didn't host IPL matches in 2014 due to the dispute between Tamil Nadu Cricket Association and Chennai corporation over three stands at the MA Chidambaram Stadium 
 Sri Lankan players didn't play Chennai matches in the 2015 IPL as well
 In 2016, Chennai missed out on hosting World T20 because of deadlock over the stands at the stadium
 
