MADURAI: The Madras high court   bench has stopped a century-old practice of giving a share from the hundi offerings to the priest of the Arulmigu Venkatachalapathy temple at   town in  .

 A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and R Hemalatha set aside the orders passed by a single judge in favour of the priest,  , in this regard. The priest had filed a case before the high court single bench in 2007 praying for a direction to the Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) department to allot 1/8th share of the total hundial income of the temple received every Saturday and Sunday in the Tamil month of Purattasi to him. 
 
 He filed another case in 2012 praying to quash the order of the joint commissioner of HR&CE department on November 30, 2011 stopping the share to the petitioner. The single judge who heard these cases passed a common order on February 25, 2013 in favour of the priest. Challenging the same, the executive officer of the temple preferred appeals in 2016. 
 
 The priest’s counsel claimed that his client was a hereditary ‘archaka’ and service holder of Arulmigu Venkitachalapathy temple. For their services, the archakas had been enjoying the offerings of the worshippers in the temple. When the Arulmigu Nachiar Dewasthanam, to which the temple was attached, introduced the hundial in the temple, it was originally resisted by his ancestors. Later on, permission was accorded to place hundials at praharam and the mandapam at the foot of the hillock on condition of getting a share in that. Accordingly, archakars had to be paid 1/8th share of the total hundial income in the temple received every Saturday and Sunday of every Tamil month of Purattasi. There was also a decree passed by the district munsif court in 1918 in this regard which had attained finality, the priest’s side said. 
 
 Opposing it, the HR&CE department argued that as per the Installation, Safeguarding and Accounting of Hundials Rules, 1975, the proceeds of hundials and other receptacles should be immediately credited to the accounts of the institution and remitted in the bank. Thus, the priest was not entitled to 1/8th share. However, his right to receive ‘thattu’ collection had not been denied.
 
 After hearing both sides, the divison bench said that it was a well-settled position of law that when a statute prescribed a thing to be done in a particular way, it should be done only in that way and not in any other mode. “In the light of the Tamil Nadu HR&CE Act, the Joint Commissioner is competent to pass the impugned order as to the stopping of 1/8th share in the hundial collection,”it said.
 
 
