JAIPUR: The state government had imposed prohibitory orders in the three districts of Churu, Nagaur and Sikar, which is the epi-centre of the farmers stir, ahead of PM Narendra Modi’s visit to   on March 8. The prohibitory orders will be in force from March 1-9, according to the state government. 

 Prime Minister   is scheduled to visit Jhunjhunu on March 8 for pan-India expansion of ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao' (BBBP) scheme which is currently in operation only in 161 districts and the launch of the National Nutrition Mission (NNM), another ambitious scheme of his government on the International Women’s Day. 
 
 Despite crackdowns and arrests before the ‘farmers march’ to Jaipur on February 22, farmers had organised blockades across the state. The movement led by the All India   (AIKS) has been demanding loan waiver and a Minimum Support Price (MSP) as per the MS Swaminathan committee recommendations.
 
 In a state committee meeting on February 27, the Kisan Sabha had decided to put forward the demands before Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is slated to visit Jhunjhunu on March 8. 
 
 The farmers’ leaders have been demanding to meet the Prime Minister during his visit to apprise him of the plight of the farmers here. 
 
 Former CPM MLA Amra Ram and vice president of the   (AIKS) which had spearheaded the farmers’ agitation said, “We have sent a request to the Prime Minister’s Office and waiting for its reply.” 
 
 Cabinet sub committee on farmers demands 
 
 In the meanwhile the state government had set up a five member cabinet sub- committee under Home minister Gulab Chand Kataria to meet the farmers’ organisations and representatives and give representations to the government on the farmers issues. 
 
 According to the government, the committee would meet the representatives of farmers organizations at the Assembly on March 5and 6 from 4 – 6 PM and the organisations could put forward their views. 
 
 The other members of the committee are water resources minister Ram Pratap, Agriculture minister Prabhulal Saini, and Energy minister  , and Co- operative minister Ajay Singh. 
 
