PUNE: The irrigation department claimed that it would complete 60% of the   of   dam before  , barely one-and-a-half-month away.

 Most of the grouting work, including filling of gaps with concrete, is expected to get over before the  . The remaining work, which will take another year, will be taken up after monsoon.
 
  
  
 
 Located about 50km from the city, Temghar is among the four reservoirs supplying water to the city. Water was visibly seeping through its wall over the past few years. 
 
 The city activists feared possible danger to the dam’s wall if the repair work was not taken up immediately. Based on the recommendations of a committee appointed by the state government, a plan for the repair work was chalked out. The work started last year in March.
 
 An official of the irrigation department said the repair work had been segregated into three phases. He said the work of the first and the second phase was expected to get over before the forthcoming monsoon. 
 
 “We have taken up the major work of grouting to restrict seepage. This work is under way at the expected speed. By June, most of the grouting work will be over. We will check the effect during monsoon, when the dam will store about 60% water of its maximum storage capacity of 3.15 TMC. The grouting work will be taken up again after monsoon, only if required,” the official said.
 
 The irrigation department claimed that there was a plan to take up the guniting treatment after the completion of grouting. A layer of cement will be put on the wall. The treatment will come over almost the entire wall. “We have taken   for the treatment and checking the outcome,” the official said. 
 
 The water stock in the dam has been brought down to zero to assist the ongoing work. Water was released from dam on priority after monsoon last year.
 
 A source in the department said the substandard work had led to water leakage from the dam. The state government had estimated spending of Rs96 crore on the repair work. 
 
 The work amounting to Rs25 crore had been completed so far, he said.
 
 Last December, the state irrigation department had resumed repair work of Temghar dam to plug leakages and strengthen its wall.
 
 The repair work, which was halted due to the monsoon for three months, had continued without any break till May, officials had said back then.
 
 The dam having a capacity of 3.71 thousand million cubic feet, had to be emptied due to severe leakage issues. The state government had sanctioned Rs100 crore for the repair of dams across the state, inluding Temghar. 
 
 The second phase of the work on Temghar dam involves special cementing work, while the clearing of chambers will be undertaken in the third phase. 
 
 The work also involves strengthening of the dam walls as well as clearing the pipeline and drain halls.
 
