Panaji: Threatening to file a defamation suit against   for giving “wrong information to the public” at a public meeting in Margao two days ago, BJP   on Sunday said that he can expose religious institutions who are selling their properties to builders.

 “Religious institutions have sold their properties to builders and builders have converted those lands and constructed even eight-floor buildings. Even an island has been sold. These properties were given to religious institutions. I don’t want to criticize them, but what have they been doing? They should take care first,”   told reporters.
 
 Reacting to his name being taken as one of the beneficiaries of land conversion in   as per RP 2021, as alleged by Goencho Avaaz, an umbrella body of voluntary organisations and activists, Cabral condemned such statements and demanded a written apology by Goencho Avaaz in public. “Or else, I will file a defamation case against them for wrong publicity. I will file a police complaint at Margao police station within the next five days for using my name at the meeting without my permission,” Cabral said.
 
 “By May 5, if they don’t issue a public apology, I will file a defamation case,” Cabral said, asking Goencho Avaaz for a public debate to show him what wrong he has done. “I am a sincere politician working for the people of Goa. It appears that Goencho Avaaz does not want politicians to do business,” he said.
 
 “A property showing survey number 161/1 is a part and parcel of Verna plateau, but it is in Loutolim village. This is one of the properties listed by Avaaz at the meeting. I am a businessman, I have various businesses. Being a politician, does it stop me for doing business?” Cabral said.
 
 Cabral questioned as to who can stop him from buying property. “I have bought this property two years ago for expansion of my ancillary unit,” he said, adding that the total area is 16,000 sq m.
 
 “I have not asked for settlement zone. What will I do with a change in zone to settlement in an industrial area?” he said, adding that there is no slopes on his property and it is barren land.
 
 He also termed the Goencho Avaaz meeting at Margao as a ‘good tiatr’. “I urge the media not to give Goencho Avaaz much publicity as they will continue their tiatrs,” Cabral said.
 
 
