TRICHY: With an aim to earn the “goodwill of the people” by serving healthy food, this 28-year-old woman, with the help of her family members, started Kirthi’s   at Birds Road in February last year. A year since its inception, H Kiruthika’s eatery – which serves as many as 47 varieties of dosais – has become one of the most sought-after destinations for Trichiites. What is more, a customer can even get his or her own dosai recipe tried out here for a small fee. 

 Asked to pick her favourite from the lot,   says the special sweet dosai is of huge demand. “Right from top police officers to restaurant owners, we have some loyal customers for this particular dish,” she tells TOI. Available for Rs 30, the specialty dish is made of dosai laced with brown sugar, grated coconut and ghee. 
 
 Other top-selling dosai varieties include all-in-one dosai, Mysuru masala dosai and onion rava dosai. “All-in-one dosai, in which we add all masala ingredients, is now a close competition for special sweet dosai,” says Kiruthika, a mother of two. Her husband, R   Suresh, who works at the registrar office in  , is of immense support to her. “My mother and my wife’s family members also help her in running the eatery. It’s our team work that has enabled us to be successful,” says Hari. While most of the dosais are available for Rs 30, the costliest one happens to be all-in-one dosai, which is priced at Rs 60. Three types of chutneys -- coconut, tomato and mint -- are provided along with the dosais.
 
 Kiruthika says that celebrating the first anniversary of her eatery a couple of weeks ago was one of the proudest moments of her life. “We distributed sweets to customers that day and they wished us whole-heartedly,” she adds. Around 250 to 350 customers visit Kirthi’s Dosaa Point, which is open from 7 pm to 11.15 pm daily and Kiruthika insists on keeping the place family-friendly. “Since a lot of people come with their children, we make sure the surroundings are totally clean. Also, we make it a point to serve only very healthy food,” says she.
 
 Though the menu card has 47 varieties of dosais, based on customer suggestions customised dosais are also provided for an extra charge of Rs 5. “People now are very creative and experimental when it comes to food. Customers, who come to our place, give their suggestions and we make dosas as per their wish. As a result, we now offer around 75 varieties,” claims Kiruthika. 
 
 Her family is now aggressively looking out for an ideal place near Chathiram bus stand to expand the business. “It is one of our dreams. I hope we’ll be able to open our eatery there soon,” says she. 
 
 —————————————————————————————————————
 
 What: Special sweet dosai, all-in-one dosai, Mysuru masala dosai
 
 Where: Birds Road, Bharathiyar Salai, Sangillyandapuram.
 
 When: 7 pm to 11.15 pm
 
 
