PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited ( ) has decided on an action plan to improve passenger   in all the bus  . Work is expected to begin within a fortnight.

 
  
  
 “Complaints about the lack of facilities in a few big   stands and depots of the PMPML about unclean waiting areas, few seats and dirty washrooms have been coming to us. A fresh action plan is being prepared and work will start soon. We want to provide drinking water, proper seats and space to stand and clean washrooms,” a PMPML official told TOI, adding that improving services in all the bus stops was difficult. 
 
 A recent RTI query by a transport activist brought to light that only 16 of the total 75 bus stands have clean drinking water, toilets and first aid kits.
 
 “With summer starting, we will first set up drinking water arrangements at all bus stands. Toilets are also important and basic and we need a proper mechanism to take care of them. One way is to hand them over to private parties. Water should be available at all the bus stands within a month,” the official added.
 
 The officials were doubtful about bus shelters. They said it was practically impossible to arrange for all amenities in the bus   which are over 1,000 in number. 
 
 “A second action plan to improve the conditions of the shelters is underway. We cannot provide washroom facilities, but 15 old buses which cannot be on the roads will be converted to ladies’ toilets and placed near the bus shelters which witness a large number of people every day. We will identify such shelters first and seek funds. The space near bus shelters will be used for stationing of toilets,” the official told TOI.
 
 Daily commuters said the utility has not been able to provide basic amenities for decades. “The transport body, PMC and the corporators do not care about the people,” daily commuter Sudhakar Hande told TOI.
 
 In August last year, PMPML had started the process of restructuring several aspects of its services. At the time, the stress was on coming up with improved, better looking as well as equipped bus shelters.
 
 
