AMBALA: Bharatiya Janata Party ( ) activist   was shot dead by   activist   Sharma in the Topkhana area of Ambala Cantonment on early Sunday morning.

 According to information, Vijay opened fire at Sandeep outside the latter’s house and fled from the spot. The incident has been recorded in the CCTV camera fitted near the spot.
 
 Sandeep was taken to the civil hospital, Ambala Cantonment, where he was declared brought dead.
 
 Deputy superintendent of police Suresh Kaushik, Sadar police station in-charge inspector   and crime branch team reached the spot and started investigations.
 
 The family of the deceased said Sandeep and just left home when they heard gunshots outside the house. They found grievously-injured Sandeep lying on the ground and Vijay fleeing from the spot. The family claimed that they had already, in multiple complaints to the police, notified of the threat they faced from Vijay.
 
 One of Sandeep’s neighbours said there was an old rivalry between the two families and that could have led to the fatal incident.
 
 The police have collected the CCTV footage and registered a case against Vijay Sharma on the complaint filed by Sandeep’s family.
 
 Meanwhile, state health minister, Anil Vij met the victim’s family at the hospital. He said the Congress party had gone down to a very low level of committing such incidents. He asked the police officials to take action as per law at the earliest.
 
 The body was later given to the family for the last rites after the post-mortem.
 
 SHO Vijay Kumar said, “We have arrested two accused Vijay Kumar and Rajat, they will be presented before the court and we will demand police remand for further investigation. The investigation process is pending and there may be involvement of others as well.”
 
 According to a source, “Accused Vijay and victim Sandeep were earlier very close friends. Vijay had taken a loan from Punjab National Bank against the guarantee of Sandeep’s house. Later, Vijay failed to pay the installments of the loan in time and Sandeep started receiving bank notices.
 
 “After this, Sandeep started Vijay to return the registration documents of his house and end the loan at the earliest. They started having arguments on regular basis and Sandeep also complained against Vijay on a number of occasions.”
 
 Vijay reportedly held an arms license and always carried a weapon. Sandeep had feared for his life and had complained to the police many times.
 
 
