NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   sought to put a lid on motormouths who have embarrassed   with comments ranging from a Pakistani hand in the   rape-murder to evidence of internet in the Mahabharat age, saying mistakes by party leaders provided “masala” to the media.

 
 “Often we say media has done this or that... this is not the media’s fault. Often our mistakes give masala to the media. As soon as we see a cameraperson we start speaking. And then, a half or incomplete sentence is used. We have to display restraint. Let those whose job it is to speak do the talking,” he told party MPs and MLAs in an address through the NaMo App on Sunday. 
 
 Indicating that BJP has suffered due to ill-considered and out-of-turn statements,   said, “If everyone starts talking, issues get altered, the nation suffers, so does the party.” 
 
 He added that when the Lok Sabha met in 2014, some 8-10 MPs had a habit of speaking a lot.
 
 
 
 Making it clear that he can “have a word” with errant legislators, he said, “But when I spoke to them, I have seen in the last three years they have not made any statements (bayan baazi).”
 
  
  
 
 The warning comes just as the Karnataka election is nearing and after the government has acted to address criticism that BJP has been late or insensitive in reacting to the Kathua crime and the alleged rape charge against an MLA in Unnao by clearing an ordinance to toughen punishments for rape of minor girls.
 
 In the video interaction, the PM indicated that BJP leaders should stop blaming the media and turn their gaze inwards, keeping in mind that their errors were the cause for media mishaps.
 
 Though he did not refer to specific instances or events, his remarks are being read in the context of party leaders shooting off their mouths, inviting opposition attacks and a negative public perception.
 
  
  
 
 Modi said he wanted to make the point while “speaking to fellow legislators” even as he reiterated the need to focus on technology to reach out to the public as he asked MPs to develop at least 3 lakh followers in their constituency. “The way I am interacting with you all, same can be exercised in constituencies. I want to interact with workers of MPs who have over 3 lakh Twitter followers,” Modi said.
 
 He mentioned an initiative by Anna Hazare where the latter set an example by developing his village as an ideal. “We all have heard about the village of Anna Hazare in Maharashtra where he focused on cleanliness and the village became a model for others to follow,” Modi said while answering a question asked by Ahmedabad MP Kirit Solanki about how to make people aware about schemes.
 
 While interacting with Hargaon (Sitapur) MLA Suresh Rahi, Modi went down memory lane as he recalled that people from his village used to visit   in Uttar Pradesh for eye treatment. “Are eye hospitals still functional there?” Modi asked and Rahi nodded in affirmation.
 
 He hailed the ongoing ‘Gram Swaraj Abhiyan’ under which party leaders have been staying overnight in over 20,000 villages which have over 50% population of Dalits and tribals. 
 
 His repeated reference to Dalit and backward classes hold significance as opposition parties are trying to pose a united front and wean away Dalits and OBCs whose support was a key factor in BJP’s landslide victory in 2014.
 
