KOLKATA: The numbers simply don’t add up. In the 2013 panchayat polls, a staggering 81,000 security personnel were deployed across five phases. Five years on, in the 2018 panchayat polls, the state had assured the state election commission around 56,000 security personnel for the threephased poll. The shortfall in security personnel is expected to be made up by auxiliary forces, like civic volunteers, home guards and special constables.

 
  
 
 On Monday, ADG (law and order) Anuj Sharma met state election commissioner Amarendra Kumar Singh to decide on the security for the 58,467 polling premises, which have a registered electorate of 5.08 crore. Sharma refused to speak on the deliberations. “We have sought a detailed security plan. We haven’t yet received it,” Sharma said. According to sources, the meeting aimed to find a way to plug the apparent shortfall in security forces. According to sources, the state had provided 46,000 security personnel in the 2013 polls, and is ready to provide another 10,000 more. In addition, it will also put into use the 12,000 to 15,000 auxiliary forces at its disposal.
 
 The problem isn’t this. According to the commission’s 2013 schedule, two armed security personnel are required for each poll premise if it has more than one booth in it. “This is improbable in this year’s panchayat polls,” said a senior officer. If one were to consider at least one armed personnel is deployed in each premises on May 1, it would require 28,710 armed personnel on Day 1 itself. On May 1, when 12 south Bengal districts go to polls, the SEC should manage 39,802 booths. If one security personnel were to man each of these booths, the total requirement for Day 1 would be more than what the state can provide. The problem lies here.
 
 “The primary logistical challenge is to meet the first day’s requirements. Moreover, police deployment is not only for poll day; it precedes that,” said a senior officer. “Police are required for route marches, area domination in sensitive zones and overall poll-day security. It isn’t limited to booths alone,” he added. Another officer felt the numbers appeared “too stretched”.
 
