NAGPUR: All India Institute of Medical Sciences ( ) will begin in a temporary campus in   (GMCH) from forthcoming 2018-19 academic session. The state government has sanctioned Rs 2.77 crore for repair and renovation of buildings identified for it.

 State medical education and drugs department issued a notification on Thursday sanctioning Rs 2.77 crore for AIIMS temporary campus. Eight types of repairs and renovation works will be carried out with these funds. They include repair and renovation of API hall, practical hall for biochemistry department, anatomy dissection hall,   hall for anatomy department, physiology practical hall, old library for office, parking area, dean bungalow for director’s residence and quarters for staff. State PWD will execute the works.
 
 Dr Viral Kamdar, advisor to union minister Nitin Gadkari, told TOI admissions will be done for 50 seats of MBBS for forthcoming session. “GMCH has identified separate infrastructure for classrooms, laboratories, operation theatre, hospital, hostels and residential quarters for AIIMS. All require repairs and renovation. AIIMS could not take up the works on its own as infrastructure is owned by the state. Therefore, we were pursuing for funds from the state. Chief minister   took special cognizance and approved the funds,” he said.
 
 Kamdar added AIIMS would bring own equipment for temporary campus and shift it to its permanent campus at Mihan later. “200-bed hospital specially for AIIMS will also open in GMCH for which two wards have been identified. Girls’ hostel will be set up in a part of nursing students’ hostel and boys’ hostel will be in a part of dental students’ hostel. AIIMS campus here will have a separate entrance, classrooms, laboratories, halls etc,” he said.
 
 As per information on AIIMS website, online registration has been started for nine centres including Nagpur. The last date for registration is March 5 and entrance examination is May 26 and 27. The first round of counselling will be on July 3-6, second likely on August 2 and third on September 4. AIIMS has also started recruitment of director and 52 other staff.
 
 
