MUMBAI: The   on Wednesday approved the appointment of two consultants (called project management consultants or PMCs) who will work under the already-appointed general consultant for the proposed coastal road project for the city. The consultants are together to be paid Rs120 crore for the project. A third PMC too is to be appointed.

 The BMC administration had proposed to appoint the two consultants on March 9, but as the standing committee didn’t take up the subject for discussion within the mandatory 30-day period, it was deemed passed on Wednesday. The proposal had been submitted to the municipal secretary’s office, which works under the standing committee chairman. The committee, which is the statutory body that gives financial approvals for civic works, is headed by the   and has corporators of political parties in the ratio of their strength. Its chairman   tried to reject the proposal but failed because the deadline was over.
 
 
 The two PMCs are meant to oversee day-to-day work, BMC officials said. The first phase of the project, from   to   and estimated to cost Rs7,500 crore, has been divided into three parts. The BMC wants the third PMC for the third part involving construction of a tunnel. But as there were four bidders of whom only one qualified, it has decided to issue fresh tenders.
 
 The three PMCs will report to the general consultant whose work in turn will be supervised by a BMC engineer. Above that will be two more layers of BMC engineers to keep a check.
 
 While some in the BMC questioned the need for hiring private consultants, civic officials said that work of this kind is happening for the first time in the city and civic staff don’t have the experience for it. However, a BMC insider said seniors should see that civic officials do not enter into a cartel with consultants and the contractor just as they did in the road scam.
 
 Denying duplication of work, BMC officials said the PMCs will look at the micro details while the general consultant will supervise overall work progress along with finalizing of contract design. A BMC official said the PMCs would be responsible for review of designs, drawings with respect to the actual site conditions and for suggesting modifications if required. The PMCs will also be responsible for conducting a road safety audit during construction and preopening of roads for traffic.
 
 
