CUTTACK: Kidney transplant patients have opposed the transfer of the head of urology department of   and Hospital, Dr Datteswar  , to   and Hospital, Berhampur, following an agitation of junior doctors against him. 

 The kidney transplant unit was started in SCB in March 2012 and in last five years at least 140 patients have undergone surgeries in the unit under Hota's leadership. The kidney transplant patients have alleged that they will face severe inconvenience due to his transfer. 
 
 "We have been operated upon by Dr Hota and he knows our case in detail. Special OPD is conducted for treatment of kidney transplant patients at SCB. After his transfer, we are now worried as who will treat us," said  , wife of a patient who underwent kidney transplant in SCB in 2014. The patients feel that Hota's transfer will affect the kidney transplant unit badly. "We have given a memorandum to SCB authorities requesting them to reinstate Dr Hota in the post as hundreds of patients will be affected. Dr Hota is the only professor rank doctor in the urology department and his absence will affect us," said Jayshree.
 
 At least 55 kidney transplant patients on Wednesday met the SCB authorities and aired their grievances. Dr Hota was instrumental in setting up the unit at SCB. 
 
 Sources in SCB said three kidney transplants are lined up in the first week of March and due to this sudden change of guard things will become chaotic. At least eight patients are in waiting to undergo kidney transplant. "Their cases were handled by Dr Hota and after his sudden transfer we will face some problem. I will meet health officials on March 3 to discuss the matter," said in-charge of the kidney transplant unit Dr C R Kar.
 
 The   (OMTA) have also opposed the transfer. "The association feels demoralised under such a situation. Ceasework by students accusing fault of teachers have become frequent," stated the release issued by OMTA.
 
 Over 700 junior doctors in SCB were on ceasework since February 19 demanding action against Dr Hota for allegedly engaging students in his private clinic. Bowing to the pressure, the state government on Tuesday transferred Hota to Berhampur. 
 
 
