THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Local self government department ( ) is picking on staff of city mission management unit (CMMU) and state mission management unit ( ) associated with implementation of   (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation), forcing pay cuts and announcing threats on salary deduction, citing failure in meeting deadlines. 

 TOI had earlier reported the unprecedented decision of state high-powered steering committee (SHPSC) held in December 2017 to cut salary of CMMU staff by 20%, if detailed project reports (DPRs) were not submitted by January 5. 
 
 Of the nine mission cities, only Thiruvanathapuram, Palakkad and Kannur managed to submit DPRs within the deadline and salaries of CMMU staff in remaining six cities were deducted by 20% in January. 
 
 The staff of SMMU now face a similar situation as it has been communicated that 20% salary would be deducted if state annual action plan-3 (SAAP-3) approval is not obtained from the Union ministry before February 15. The Centre has laid down five milestones for the release of the first instalment against SAAP-III of which one milestone is pending. Projects amounting to at least 25% of SAAP-I, around Rs 150 crore, need to be contracted and according to officials, this shall be accomplished by February-end. 
 
 LSGD’s crackdown on the staff of CMMU and SMMU is widely perceived as a classic case of cover-up exercise on the part of senior officials responsible for timely execution of the project. Ever since AMRUT was launched in 2015, a series of indecisions and change in policies at the top had hindered its progress. It had taken LSGD almost a year to decide whether project development management consultant (PDMC) was needed or not. The state-level technical committee had not met for four months in 2017. There was also change in decisions regarding mode of awarding technical sanction (TS).
 
 In July 2016, the state high-powered steering committee in its third meeting froze the earlier decision regarding the process for obtaining the TS for the projects from the implementing agency. It was decided to follow the procedure adopted under JNNURM by constituting an expert committee with a set of independent sectoral experts. It took another five months before state-level technical committee decided to constitute expert committees for two regions.
 
 The government order regarding state level/regional technical expert committee was issued only in April 2017, almost a year after the decision was made. The state government then scrapped the technical expert committees (TEC) following a review meeting convened by LSG minister K T Jaleel who said that the need for having   to award technical sanction induced delay in implementation of projects. Minister’s open critique of TECs also dealt a blow to principal secretary T K Jose who along with former chief secretary had mooted TECs in the implementation of AMRUT. 
 
 Paul Antony, chief secretary, who chaired his first meeting of SHPSC in February, reportedly lashed out at the staff without taking into account any of these earlier developments. Sources said that senior officials are trying to mask the real reasons behind the delay. “In Kochi, one of the cities which got penalised, 11 DPRs ought to be prepared by an external agency and that decision was made only in December and now the staff of CMMU are made to suffer,” an LSGD official said. 
 
 The officials point out that LSGD has also failed to take note of the progress in implementation of AMRUT during the last few months. In May 2017, only 70 DPRs were prepared and AS was accorded to 44 projects and by December 2017, 369 DPRs were prepared and AS was awarded to 365 projects. P S Mohammed Sagir, state mission director – AMRUT, did not respond to calls.
 
 
