MEERUT: Days after three cops were charged with culpable homicide for refusing to carry two injured teens to hospital in the police vehicle in Saharanpur, another video has gone viral in the city in which cops are seen angrily throwing a 70-year-old farmer   to the ground apart from abusing his son who is with   (BSF).

  The cops can be heard threatening the father-son duo in the video. Later, Singh’s son,  , who is posted at the   border, was allegedly told by the station house officer: “Wahan pathar khaate ho, yahaan aaye to jail bhej doonga (there you are pelted with stones and here if you come to me, I will send you to jail).” A property dispute is said to be the reason behind the incident.
  
  Later, Singh along with his younger son   were booked under IPC’s section 307 (attempt to murder), arrested and sent to jail.
 
  The incident occurred in Tatapur village under Gangoh police station of Saharanpur on January 5, but came to light late on Wednesday evening when the video surfaced on the social media. An inquiry has been set up against the erring cops.
 
  Speaking with TOI, Saharanpur SSP Babloo Kumar said, “Investigations are on and strict action will be taken against all those found guilty.”
 
  The BSF jawan, Ajay Kumar, told TOI, “The matter pertains to a land which was in the possession of our family since 1971. However, the revenue officials had illegally shown this land as part of a pond. Despite the fact that the dispute is currently sub-judice in Board of Revenue (Allahabad), the region’s lekhpal,  , reached the spot along with the cops to take control of the land. When my 70-year-old father and my younger brother protested, the cops turned abusive and threw my father on the ground and even my brother Pramod was not spared. Later, they were booked for an attempt to murder and sent to jail.”
 
  On Thursday last week, three policemen, who had refused to take two dying teenage boys to hospital after an accident in Saharanpur, saying their vehicle would get dirty, were suspended and charged with culpable homicide. Taking suo motu cognizance of media reports, the National Human Rights Commission had observed, "Crucial time was lost in carrying them in a tempo by public to hospital, where both were declared dead by the doctors."
