MUMBAI: Among the beneficiaries of the 2008-09   scheme were rich and powerful   and   politicians and members of their families, found the Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP government when it studied the older scheme before introducing its own in the state. Influential people cornered benefits in the lakhs in the old scheme, with amounts even crossing Rs 40 lakh in some cases. So, the Fadnavis government decided to bring in stringent rules while launching the Rs 34,022 crore loan waiver scheme for 89 lakh farmers.

 A senior bureaucrat told TOI on Thursday that high-ranking officials of the cooperation, finance and information technology departments as well as bank nominees studied the 2008-09 loan waiver schemes before finalising the rules for beneficiaries. 
 
 The cooperation department found that a veteran NCP legislator, along with his entire family comprising seven members, was granted the benefit of the loan waiver scheme. In addition, a senior NCP legislator, a former Congress legislator and heads of the cooperative institutions were major beneficiaries under the old scheme.
 
 The NCP legislator and his family received a benefit of Rs 1.6 lakh, while a chairman of a cooperative society received a benefit of Rs 38 lakh, another head of a cooperative sugar factory received a benefit of Rs 37.17 lakh and a former panchayat samiti head got a benefit of Rs 10.91 lakh. In certain cases, the amount was more than Rs 40 lakh. One rich family even received a Rs 50 lakh benefit. “The loan waiver scheme was drafted for small, marginal and poor farmers, but it was observed that rich politicians took most of the benefit while poor and marginal farmers were ignored,” the bureaucrat said.
 
 In the 2008-09 schemes, the main criterion was land area — farmers with under five acres would benefit, mainly to halt suicides. “Since a large number of suicides was reported in Vidarbha and Marathwada, it was expected that farmers from these regions will be benefited by the decision of the government. However, 24.1 lakh poor farmers out of 69 lakh were deprived of the loan waiver scheme, since their land holding was more than five acres,” the official said.
 
 The bureaucrat said that for the new scheme it was decided that sitting and former ministers, legislators, MPs, members of the ZPs, pensioners, income tax payers (other than from farm income), persons with income over Rs 3 lakh, office-bearers of cooperative societies and agriculture produce market committees, and government employees would not be considered for the loan waiver scheme.
 
 The official said the Rs 1.5 lakh ceiling was fixed after much home-work, as it was found that 82% of loans were up to Rs 1.5 lakh and 6.45% between Rs 1.5 lakh and Rs 2 lakh.
 
 
