CHANDIGARH: Dera   chief   used his castrated followers as a vehicle for amassing huge amount of land and property. These startling facts form part of the   chargesheet submitted before the special CBI court Panchkula.

 
 After pushing his followers to get castrated, which made them entirely dependent on the dera, the sect head misused the documents prepared in their names to purchase large chunks of land in the dera's name. As per the findings of CBI, a copy of which is with TOI, the   chief used to obtain signatures of castrated devotees without telling them the purpose/nature of the paper to be signed. "They did not dare to enquire about the nature of paper to be signed by them. He made them sign   (GPA), authorizing his proteges to purchase/gift land in the name of castrated devotees on behalf of the dera without their knowledge/consent. After land was bought in the name of castrated devotees, it was gifted back to the dera." 
 
 
 
 
 The CBI probe found that most of the castrated devotees’ general power of attorney (GPA) to authorized dera men were issued in 2000-01 and land purchased in the name of castrated devotees was gifted back to the dera on the basis of GPAs executed by them post-2005.
 
 The investigation also showed that actual purchasers — castrated devotees — never met the sellers of land, and it was the dera representatives who made the payment. According to the agency’s probe, the sellers admitted that they had received money from the representatives of dera as cost of the land, and not from the actual purchasers, whose names were mentioned in the sale deeds. The charge sheet mentions that the statements of sellers corroborate those of the devotees, who stated that neither did they purchase any land, nor did they gift any land to the dera.
 
 The large number of certified copies of GPAs and registered gift deeds prepared on behalf of castrated devotees favouring the dera form part of the evidence gathered by the agency.
 
 A record of around 17 such property transactions has been submitted by the CBI along with charge sheet to prove these allegations. The investigating agency has also made a large number of revenue officials of  , sale deed writers, advocates and registrars of revenue department witnesses to prove the sham transactions for transfer of property to the dera through the castrated devotees.
 
 
 
 
