CHANDIGARH: After the Chandigarh administration proposed amendments in the existing Punjab Municipal Act (Extended to Chandigarh), 1994, incorporating provision of disqualification for defection, key political parties have appreciated the move saying it has been aimed for the betterment of the municipal corporation. 

 Though, Chandigarh Congress said that the done exercise is not enough, and much more needs to be done. The party was of the view that much more needs to be done to enhance the powers and term of mayor and for introducing mayor in the council.
 
 "We support and appreciate the amendment related to the disqualification for the defection and appointment of the ombudsman in the   to listen and resolve the grievances of the public, but it is not enough. In fact as per nature of the city, it needs a mayor in the council. Though, the administration has asked for suggestion and objections by giving 30 days' time to the stakeholders and general public, we will present our points before the administration by discussing each and every point with party's senior leaders and office bearers," said  , president of Chandigarh Congress. Chhabra further added that the amended provisions must be implemented from the next MC term, because if the same is being implemented in the current MC term, then we will oppose it, because currently BJP's councillors are passing through intense infighting, which can reduce their number in the MC in upcoming days.
 
 Sanjay Tandon, president of   appreciated the move terming it right for the betterment of the local bodies. "The disqualification for defection is really crucial, because if someone has been voted on one party's name, he or she should remain with the same party. This entire effort is being done to improve the overall situation in the municipal corporation and the reason behind is only to pave the way towards betterment,"   added.
 
 Hardeep Singh, president of Chandigarh unit of SAD, said, "Since this intense exercise has been done with the detailed consultation of the ministry of home affairs and ministry of law, all crucial aspects have been kept in the mind. Disqualification on defection and appointment of the ombudsman are the most crucial steps taken in current scenario for the betterment of the civic body."
 
 Sources in the Chandigarh administration revealed that Chandigarh administration will also call the stakeholders to discuss the matter in detail and the matter is also likely to come in the general house of the municipal corporation for the detailed discussion. 
 
 
