Chennai: So you want to trade in your petrol two wheeler for an electric/hybrid version? In the next couple of years, you’ll have a variety of options with two wheeler makers launching both new products as well as solutions to move the existing pool to a hybrid mode through retrofitment route. Take Greaves Cotton which has tied up with Bengaluru-based Altigreen to introduce hybrid kits for after-market fitment on existing two wheelers.  “This will be a low cost partial electrification solution through retrofit hybrid kits. The retrofitment will be done through our Greaves Auto Care service outlets for two and three wheelers. Our strategy is to make Greaves Auto Care an integral player in the EV space, said Nagesh Basavanhalli, MD & CEO, Greaves Cotton. While Greaves is looking at cleaner and more fuel efficient alternative technology, electric two wheeler market leader Hero Electric is betting on new electric products that can match the speed and performance of IC engine variants. “This year we will launch two high speed electric scooters with lithium ion battery. We will also launch a whole range of high performance, luxury electric bicycles,” said Naveen Munjal, MD, Hero Electric.  The electric two wheeler segment is growing in top gear and Hero Electric is looking at three times jump in sales in FY18-19 to 75,000 units from 26,000 units currently and a 20 fold jump in 5 years. “We need new plants to cater to the demand and we will invest Rs 700 crore in next 5 years (Rs 300 crore in 3 years) in capacity expansion and localization of parts,” added Munjal. Apart from the after market solution, Greaves Cotton is also working on a new CNG and petrol ‘lean burn’ engine which is both cleaner and more fuel efficient than current versions. Said Basavanhalli, “Under our licencing agreement with Pinnacle of US we are jointly developing these engines which meet BS6 norms and give 30% better mileage. We will market a 110 cc two wheeler engine and a 200cc plus three wheeler engine,” he added. Greaves Cotton is already in talks with two and three wheeler OEMs for deployment of these engines. Apart from these two options, the company is negotiating with potential partners for a tech-tie up of affordable electric options for cargo and passenger carriers. “We are looking at a light weight body vehicle with the right value proposition but it is still a concept and will need more work before we productionise it,” added Basavanhalli.