THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Soon, the state will have something to boast about as it will be the subject of a photo documentary to be narrated through the frames of world-renowned photographers. 

 Vietnamese American photographer   Ut, famous for the Vietnam War photograph known as the Napalm girl, which won him the Pulitzer prize and Los Angeles Times photo editor Raul Roa, will travel along the state this week for making a photo documentary on Kerala.
 
 They will be visiting the state on an invitation from the   to participate in the second edition of the International Press Photo Fest Kerala (IPPFK).
 
 The four-day fest, organized in association with the Information and public relation department, will be held in the city from March 8.
 
 "While inviting them for the event, we also discussed about our plan to do a photo documentary on the state and they agreed to participate in the project. They will be traveling across the state for the project, which will be published as an album," said RS Babu, chairman of the Kerala Media Academy.
 
 Chief minister   will felicitate Nick Ut with World Photographer Prize instituted by the academy at the inaugural function of the photo fest to be held at the Tagore Theatre at 6pm on Thursday. Nick Ut and Raul Roa will also lead a workshop to be held as part of IPPFK at the Mascot Hotel at 11am on March 9. The workshop will be attended by 50 photo journalists.
 
 An exhibition of Pulitzer prize-winning photographs and 200-odd selected photos by photojournalists from the state, will be exhibited at the photo festival. 
 
 Also, a media festival for students at various media institutions, interactive section with senior photographers and music programmes will also be held during the festival days.
 
 Prior to the event, a convention of female photographers will be held at the Government College for Women, Vazhuthacaud. 
 
 Works of well-known female photojournalists, including Canadian photographer Barbara Davidson, Homai Vyarawalla, Sipra Das and Rakhi will be put on display at the venue of the convention. 
 
 
