Visakhapatnam: The winter chill continued on Monday for Vizag city as it recorded the coldest day of not just this season but in recent years with the airport registering a low of 14.2° Celsius.

 Met department officials said the minimum temperatures are likely to come down further in the next two days. The minimum temperature recorded in Waltair, which is close to the sea, was 18.8°C on Monday.
 
 A thick blanket of fog covered many parts of the city on Monday and icy winds swept through the city, bringing the weather below 15° for the past few days at the airport area. With North India experiencing severe cold wave conditions, parts of Orissa and Chattisgarh are witnessing temperatures below 10° C, and the state too has been feeling the nip.
 
 The cold was exacerbated by the winds blowing to the city from Odisha and Chhattisgarh, Met officials said, adding that a majority of places in those states are experiencing temperatures between 11 to 14°C.
 
 Sources in the Met department said it was 14.4 degrees Celsius for the past two days at the airport and on Monday, the minimum temperature settled at 14.2°. The maximum temperature at the airport was 27.4°C. “Because of the fog during the nights, we have been facing problems and are closing our business one-and-a-half hours before the normal closing time of 10.30 pm,” said P Ramu Naidu, a fruit vendor at Venkojipalem area in the city. Traffic too has been severely affected for the past few days with the dip in temperatures from 10 pm. Workers at bus complex and railway station and other market yard places were seen warming themselves by making small camp fires.
 
 “The dip in temperatures in January is common, but the sudden dip in the weather conditions is showing its impact during the day as well as people in these parts of the country aren’t used to the chill,” said B Ramakrishna, a regular morning walker at the Railway Stadium. He said the dense fog was obstructing visibility on the roads for the past few days and driving in such conditions is dangerous.
 
 Despite the cold wave, a festival rush was witnessed at shopping malls and cloth stores across the city with people dressed in winter wear.
 
 
