 was shocked when the security guards at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Botanical Gardens on Marudhamalai Road in Coimbatore told him he cannot enter the premises with his female friend. Not just Praveen, several other unmarried couples were turned away with no specific reason or justification from the park.

 The security officials said that they had received strict orders that unmarried couples should not be allowed inside the park. "Fed-up with the couples using the park as their hiding and recreation area, the university has come up with this rule. We initially tried to put up rules and regulations such as seeking their ID proofs and asking details such as phone numbers. Despite all that, couples continued to behave inappropriately causing a lot of discomfort to other visitors. Students and families have also complained many times," said M Kannan, professor and head of the floriculture department.
 
 Students who frequent the park said that if the university had an issue with unmarried couples, they should either ensure better security or set up  . "Restricting entry into a public place is completely illegal," said a student. Harris, an   aspirant said, "The security guard told me that even if I was married I would not be allowed inside. Only couples with children were allowed. This is ridiculous. I had once gone with a male friend at 8am on a Saturday morning. We both wanted to ideate for our new venture. But again, we were turned away. Even though I was with a male partner."
 
 The park opens at 8am and closes at 11.15am for the public. Again visitors are allowed from 2.30pm to 4.45pm. "The timings are very odd. We are environmentalists undertaking studies on butterflies and other insects. Butterflies come out only after 10am. So within an hour, we were asked to leave," said a butterfly watcher.
 
 Officials at the university said that the decision was taken after a police case was registered due to some unmarried couples. "Arguments led to quarrels once between couples. A police case was also registered and after that we decided to do this. This park is primarily for  . For recreation, we have no choice but have restricted entry," said M Kannan.
 
