DEHRADUN: Union environment minister   said that he has taken “serious note of concerns regarding violations of environment norm in the construction work for the all-weather Char Dham widening project in Uttarakhand” and will speak with the state government.
 
  The minister was in Dehradun on Saturday to inaugurate a new building of the Unesco category centre for World Heritage Institute of Training & Research for Asia & Pacific Region on the premise of Wildlife Institute of India.
  
  The National Green Tribunal (NGT), had also issued a notice to the Centre and Uttarakhand government on February 28 over allegations that forests are being cleared without due procedure for widening highway leading to Char Dham in the  . The NGT bench had said that “it is hoped that the state government would not proceed with the project till the next date of hearing on March 13.
  
  However, even after directions and concerns being voiced, the work seems to continue on the ground, and environmentalists and locals have rued the blatant neglect of environmental safeguards.
   , secretary of  , said, “The way mountains are being cut in straight position rather than, the area will become highly prone to landslides. Not only this, the whole lot of debris generated from digging mountains and road building too is being disposed in the rivers, forests and in open spaces in the vicinity. This silt and debris mixed with water of heavy rain can trigger catastrophe in these areas.”
  
  Dulari Devi, patron of Uttarakhand   who also fought for Chioko Andolan said, “The centre made wrong projection stating that only 25303 trees have been cut in an area of 360 km for Char Dham widening projects. In the belt from Rishikesh to Khadi only, it is easy to make out through the sliced mountains that more than 25000 trees have been cut in just one km area. Hundred-year-old mixed forest has been butchered mercilessly.”
  
  Rajender Singh, a teacher in Narender Nagar said that the road has been blocked by debris and JCBs’ engaged in the project.
  Aranya Ranjan, social worker said that the work in Char Dham project has not stopped and the machines continue to dig mountains in the area.
