City-based music composer   has come up with an anthem for Chennai Super Kings, which has Kollywood actor and composer Premgi Amaren on the vocals. Abhijith had composed the music for the 2013 Kollywood film Boo. In November 2017, he had composed an anthem for Kovai Day, which was sung by popular singer  . 

 Talking about the new song, titled   Anthem 2.0, Abhijith says, “A year ago, I thought of creating an anthem for CSK as they will be returning after two years. This February, a school friend of mine, who is a very big CSK and   fan, insisted that we should do something to mark the team’s return. Seeing his enthusiasm, I decided to compose a song from the perspective of a fan.” 
 
 To do so, he used the sound of fans cheering, with claps and bottles, in the background. And he used a simple tune and lines that provided information on cricket. He also reveals that he went for a folk feel for the song “because the official anthem had a western touch”. 
 
 Quiz him about the 2.0 in the song’s title and he says, “We wanted to have a Thalaivar reference in the song. For us, die-hard Rajini fans, Endhiran is one of his biggest films, so, we chose 2.0, the title of his upcoming film, to show our love.”
 
 So, how did Premgi come into the picture? Abhijith says that he wanted to bring in a celebrity to sing the song to ensure that the song has a reach and could be played at the stadium, during CSK’s matches, if it becomes popular. “Having worked with Yuvan Shankar Raja sir, Premgi is someone who has good musicianship, but I felt that this aspect of him hasn’t been fully appreciated. I am someone who is looking forward to what he does in his brother, Venkat Prabhu’s upcoming film as a composer. So, I decided that he would be perfect for the song,” says the composer. Through his filmmaker friend, Vidya, he managed to reach out to Premgi. “He instantly agreed to be part of the song after listening to the rough track,” he gushes and adds, “Premgi brought an energy and style to the song and took it to the next level.” 
 
 Together with another filmmaker friend,   Kandasamy, he has made a video for the song as well. “Aswin is currently working on the remake of a popular Malayalam film, and he conceptualised the video and shot it,” he informs. 
 
  
 
