MANALI:   valley, which is known for its scenic beauty, lost its sheen after smog enveloped the entire region, following fires at pine and deodar forests of   that are burning for the last four days. As of now, dark smoke that is rising from the mountain peaks has decreased the visibility. Besides this, the area that is known for its clean air has become disastrous for asthma patients and those suffering from breathing problems. This has also spiked the temperature here.

 In the beginning of January, Manali witnessed minus 4 degrees Celsius at night. However, due to these fires and smog, the minimum temperature has now settled between 0 and minus 1 degrees Celsius. The temperature in the day, which used to remain below 10 degrees Celcius is touching 15 degrees Celsius.
 
 On Sunday, the minimum and maximum temperature of Manali was recorded at minus 0.6 and 16 degrees Celsius, respectively. Bhuntar, the lower part of Kullu, recorded minimum and maximum temperature at 0 and 21 degrees Celsius, respectively.
 
 “Forests here have become prone to catching fire in winters. Winter fires are noticed between October and February. We need to run an awareness campaign to educate people,” said Kullu divisional forest officer  .
 
 “Once the fire rises from the ground and touches the top of pine trees, it becomes uncontrollable and causes damage worth crores of rupees. Some  , including Kharahal area, have entered the villages and people are dousing it with the help of forest officials to protect their houses,” he added.
 
 Forest fires generally spread when farmers burn the farm waste. Sometime people burn stubs of trees and burn sticks to tackle cold weather.
 
 Interestingly, there is an old misconception as well. Some old-timers think that burning forests will create smoke and clouds would eventually break their long dry spell and rain.
 
 Despite the fact that the forests here are vulnerable to catching fire, both the fire and forest departments do not have proper equipment to control it. Every year, they put their lives in danger and are forced to go close to these fires to douse it manually. The process to control forest fires sometimes takes days to control.
 
 
