PANAJI: The high alert issued for possible incursions by terrorists at sea turned out to be a lifesaver for two Olive Ridley turtles, as the crew of a patrol vessel freed the marine specieswho were entangledin a fishing net.

 Mormugao Port Trust’s (MPT) pilot launch vessel, Pulivasal had set out on patrol duty from the harbour on Saturday morning following the terror alert inputs.
 
 
 “Hardly 600m ahead, we thought a fish carcass or a corpse was being eaten in the water. But it turned out to be two turtles trapped in a 25mlong fishing net,”  , a crew member said.
 
 The flippered visitors, who surface on the state’s beaches for nesting, may have been floundering in this trap for days. When the two turtles were hauled up on deck, the crew members observed that one had lost its left front flipper and the other flipper was also injured, but the second turtle had received only minor injuries.
 
 “It was pitiful to see the two struggling in the net. The wound on the lost flipper was not fresh and appeared partly healed which means they were struggling for days,” Naik said.
 
 A sizeable number of carcasses and maimed marine population, especially turtles, dolphins and porpoises are getting entangled in discarded and trawler fishing nets around Goa’s coastline. A record of the last eight months has revealed deaths of 30 turtle, 12 dolphins and three finless porpoises.
 
 In this case, the fishing net appears to be a long-discarded one. “There were micro shells and moss which had grown on the net. These nets pose a threat to the fish and even vessels,” Caetano  , mater of the vessel said.
 
 After the forest department had been informed, two staffersrushedtotheMPT patrol vessel and the turtles were minutely examined and profiled. The bigger of the turtles was 100cm in length, with a width of 66cm and weighed 45kg, while the other turtle was 79cm in length, a width of 60cm and weighted 30kg.
 
 “After treatment, the turtles were released some distance away from the coast,” a crew member said.
 
 The crew is baffled about the number of days the duo may have neen entrapped. “It could be even a week, as the turtle’s wound suggests,” Dias said.
 
 In February this year, three carcasses of Olive Ridley turtles washed ashore at   and   beaches over just two days adding to the growing concern over the stranding of marine species on Goa’s coastline. Many of these flippered visitors may be arriving on shore for nesting and collide with vessels or even fishing nets.
 
