MUMBAI: The   on Saturday issued a statement rejecting the  's recent judgement permitting passive euthanasia. The apex court had on Friday legalised mercy killing for terminally ill patients with accompanying guidelines.

 Reacting to the order, Fr Stephen Fernandes, national secretary of the Catholic Bishops' Conference of India's (CBCI)   issued a statement Saturday. It decried both active and passive euthanasia. "No one can in any way permit the killing of an innocent human being, whether a foetus or an embryo, an infant or an adult, an old person, or one suffering from an incurable disease, or a person who is dying. No one has the right to ask for this act of killing for ourselves or for those entrusted to our care."
 
 Significantly, the archbishop of Bombay, Oswald Cardinal Gracias, is president of CBCI. Fr Nigel Barrett, spokesman for the archdiocese said, "I believe the Cardinal would endorse this statement. The Catholic Church cherishes the primacy of life so it is a concept we would definitely hold on to."
 
 Fr Stephen meanwhile is based at St Pius Seminary in Goregaon. He said to TOI, "Since 2013 when this draft bill was proposed, we have conducted several seminars on various aspects of the right to life including abortion. We are not asking patients or caregivers to forcibly opt for expensive treatment or sell all their assets to treat a patient for whom recovery is impossible. In such cases one has to place the matter in God's hands. But basic food, water, medicine and TLC (tender loving care) must not be stopped."
 
 The CBCI's letter adds, "The right to life under Article 21 of the Indian Constitution does not include the right to die. The taking of innocent life is never a moral act. Legalizing euthanasia would place the lives of vulnerable people at risk, including those whom others might be tempted to think would be better off dead."
 
 "Especially at the end of life, when it is clear that death is imminent and inevitable, no matter what medical procedures are attempted, one may refuse treatment that would only secure a precarious and burdensome prolongation of life, so long as the normal care due to the sick person in similar cases is not interrupted."
 
 Fr Nigel pointed out that according to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, "Discontinuing medical procedures that are burdensome, dangerous, extraordinary, or disproportionate to the expected outcome can be legitimate; it is the refusal of 'over-zealous' treatment. Here one does not will to cause death; one's inability to impede it is merely accepted. The decisions should be made by the patient if he is competent and able or, if not, by those legally entitled to act for the patient, whose reasonable will and legitimate interests must always be respected."
 
 The Church says better access to high quality palliative care and support for care givers would be helpful. But Thane activist   said, "The Church is a community organisation so it should not speak against the SC decision which applies to the whole country. Moreover, our own hospitals deny rebates to poor Catholics. Let the Church look inward first."
 
