

 
 
 
 It’s a combination of the nature of news and the nature of human cognition. If you get your picture of the world from the news, which is about things happening now, naturally it highlights things that go wrong. Improvements such as the decline in poverty take place on a gradual scale. More than a billion people have risen out of poverty in 25 years but no one knows about it. Then, there’s the ‘availability heuristic’, identified by Nobel Prize-winning psychologist Daniel Kahneman. The human mind tends to think of a probability by drawing on easily available narratives or images. So if the news is talking about violent events, people have the impression that things are getting worse even as they are getting better. The fact is: We live longer, healthier, safer, wealthier, freer, more peaceful and more stimulating lives than those who came before us.
 
 
 
 
 A skilled leader would align emotion with the forces of progress. There are politicians who have been able to do that. Recently in the US, we had   who was elected for two terms on a message of hope and change. In the US in the past, Bill   and Ronald Reagan were able to combine an optimistic outlook with popularity. They recruited emotion, they married emotion with a progressive attitude. Some leaders can do it and others seem to fail.
 
 
 
 Yes, but it should not depend on an individual. We need an education system that emphasises progress. The US education system now tends to emphasise the flaws of democracy such as America’s history of racial discrimination, the oppression of Native Americans. The country has been tagged in the role of a villain. The US used to teach civics, an understanding of how democratic governments work. It has to be part of everyday discourse again. We have to be more connected to empirical data. There is also a habit among intellectuals of using yesterday as a trend — you shouldn’t talk about trends unless you look into the past, go into data and base opinions on actual numbers.
 
 
 
 I was surprised to find that India has a very high level of racial prejudice. That’s hard to break, but one must always distinguish between a problem existing and a problem getting worse. I suspect that if we study data in India over time, it’s better now than it used to be 40 years ago. Until you look at the trends you can’t conclude that prejudice has gotten worse. But there are definitely things that have gotten worse: carbon emissions, the rise of populism, and the threat of nuclear war. Depending on the country, there are certain forms of social pathology that are concerning. In the US, it’s the opioid epidemic, the rising rates of divorce and anxiety. We should study problems empirically looking at the best possible data. We need to treat problems almost as engineering challenges — identify the problem and come up with solutions, having an open mind about what works and doesn’t, and learning from the successes and failures of other countries. 
 
 
 
 It was looking at the data. One of my earlier books, The Blank Slate, which came out in 2002, had a darker view of the human condition. I argued that there is such a thing as human nature and wrote about the many nasty traits that humans have, especially dominance, revenge and fallacious thinking. But on seeing graphs that demonstrated human progress, I started thinking about things differently. I don’t have an optimistic outlook or temperament. It’s not a case of seeing the glass as half full. It’s really a matter of calling people’s attention to facts that they didn’t even know were facts. People simply had not seen the decline in warfare, poverty or violence. It’s a question of pointing out the water in the glass. 
 
