CHANDIGARH: The   government is planning to oppose the Central government’s move to bring in the National Medical Commission Bill for replacing Medical Council of India (MCI) with a new body. At the same time, the state has decided to come up with its own law for registration and regulation of various clinical establishments rather than following the Central Act passed in 2010.

 Talking to TOI Punjab health minister   said, “We are going to oppose the proposed National Medical Commission Bill since state’s interest will not be watched under the new body.” Gurdaspur MP and   president   has already been briefed on this issue to raise it in the Parliament, Mohindra said.
 
 Lakhs of doctors across the country had gone on one-day strike on Tuesday in protest against the bill mainly on the issue that it will allow those doctors to practice allopathy who have been practising alternative and traditional medicine after undergoing a short-term course.
 
 The health minister added that the proposed medical commission had become a national issue now and the states like   and Kerala were opposing it tooth and nail, apart from the MCI members. “That is why the issue has been referred to the parliamentary standing committee,” Mohindra said, adding that as of now Punjab had two representatives in the MCI whereas in the proposed body only five states would be represented.
 
 Highlighting other issues, the health minister said the state was also opposed to the proposed curriculum in which the Central government was proposing to make a Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery (BAMS) doctor as allophathic physician just by giving him six months of additional training. “What will the MBBS doctor do who has undergone tough medical training for five and half years? This is unethical,” Mohindra said. 
 
 On state government’s proposal to come up with its Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Act, the health minister revealed that his department had already scheduled a meeting in this regard for January 5. The law is important for Punjab because the state government only has a provision for registration of a medical doctor for the purpose of granting him licence to practice. However, there is no provision in the state for registration of private hospitals, clinics and para-medical staff, including laboratory technicians and operation theatre assistants.
 
 “Before coming up with our own Act, we are going to study the Central Act and those passed by other states,” said Mohindra. The health department would also take inputs from various stakeholders as well as the public to create a public sentiment on the subject. He added that there was a need to know the feedback of people before coming up with such an Act to control hospitals and clinics so that the state did not end up with an Act that it failed to implement.
 
 
