THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:  , director general of prisons and correctional services, stirred up a hornet’s nest through a post in her personal blog on Tuesday criticising ‘chooralkuthu’ held as part of the   in  . The issue of child rights violation highlighted by her has opened doors to a larger debate.

 
 A staunch devotee of Attukal Devi and one who regularly offers pongala, Sreelekha did not think about the mental agony of children until she met the son of her personal security officer among the Kuthiyottam children. “It was a shock to me that most children are not aware of what they will be going through. I was skeptical of openly commenting about it as every opinion would invite negative criticism. When it was again time for the ritual, I had a strong feeling that I should do something about this,” said Sreelekha, stating that the blog post is her pongala offering for Attukal Devi this year. Dr P Muralidharan, a doctor who petitioned the human rights commission against the ritual, said he decided to act after several children were brought to him with infections following the ‘chooralkuthu’ ritual. “I have been working as a medical practitioner in this area for the past 50 years. Every time after the ritual, I saw around five to seven children with issues ranging from infection to fever. That is when I decided to approach the human rights commission,” said the 77-year-old doctor, who recently closed his clinic at Manacaud.
  
  
 After getting a favourable order from state human rights commission, Dr Muralidharan approached  , who was then home minister, seeking governmental intervention. However, he was disappointed by Chennithala’s statement that they could not do anything related to temple rituals. Dr Muralidharan is now planning to approach the LDF government with the demand.
 
 Lekshmy Rajeev, author of 'Attukal amma: The Goddess of millions', said putting an end to the riual is no big deal as the temple has undergone modernization over the years. “From a small mudippura owned and worshipped by local people, the temple had gone through various sanskritising and brahminical changes. Several traditional practices like animal sacrifice were dropped one by one and brahminical rituals were introduced from the 1960s. It could be seen as part of our evolution as a better, modern society. Kuthiyottam, pongala and tottampattu are the remaining three rituals. The practice of not allowing Kuthiyottam children to sleep at night was stopped after it was claimed to have found in ‘devaprasnam’ that Devi does not like to deprive sleep of the boys. Then will the Devi favour inflecting pain on the boys? It is high time that the temple authorities put an end to the inhuman practice. I heard that Sreelekha has decided not to offer pongala this time. In my opinion, she would get blessing of offering 100 pongalas for taking up this issue. And my pongala this year is dedicated to Sreelekha,” Lekshmy said.
 
 Following the controversy over Sreelekha’s post, the temple authorities convened a meeting of office bearers on Tuesday evening and stated that Sreelekha’s comments were not factual. Temple secretary K Sisupalan Nair said that the comments made by Sreelekha are not true. “The children are not starved. They have sumptuous sadya with payasam. They sleep in AC rooms. We use only sterilized metal wires for the rituals and that too is done under the observation of a medical team,” he said. Nair said that the temple was not forcing anyone to bring their children and parents are doing it on free will. No case of infection or complaints have came to their notice so far, he said.
 
 
 
 The Kerala State Human Rights Commission chairman Justice J B Koshy had issued an order on July 2, 2014, asking the state government to take an appropriate decision on the practice of Kuthiyottam ritual in Attukal temple festival. The commission also asked for a thorough study on the mental and physical health of the children before taking the decision. The commission in the order noted that consent of a minor child was not a consent in law.
 
 The order was issued based on the complaint of Dr P Muralidharan, who run a private clinic at Manacaud till a few years ago. The petitioner, in his complaint, had stated that several children approach his clinic every year with complaints of infection following the ‘chooralkuthu’ ritual.
 
 The police and Attukal temple trust submitted reports based on the direction of SHRC in 2013. The report submitted by Attukal temple trust said the SHRC is not authorised to take action in the case.
 
 
