CHANDIGARH: As many as 179 students were awarded prizes for meritorious performance in academics and sports on the annual prize distribution function of GGDSD College on Monday.

 Among these 85 students were awarded the roll of honour in appreciation of their brilliant performance while 36 students received the college colour.
 
 Another lot of 404 students were awarded certificate of distinction while 354 students received certificate of merit. The 14 faculty members who completed their PhD during the current academic session were felicitated and awarded a cash prize of Rs 5,000 each.
 
 The function was presided over by  , vice-chancellor, Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. Parvinder Singh, controller of examinations, Panjab University (PU) was the guest of honour. Aditya Kundu, a student of the college was declared the ‘Sportsperson of the year’ for winning a gold medal at the Commonwealth Championship in wrestling held at Johannesburg in 2017.
 
 Jaspal Singh Sandhu while addressing the students, said, “SD College in terms of infrastructure and quality teaching has achieved good standards. I have visited many colleges across the country in my capacity as secretary of   and SD can be touted as best in terms of infrastructure and teaching facilities.”
 
 Sandhu while commenting on the state of education in the country, said, “The Indian education system is declining. The youth should be innovative and needs to think out of the box. Don’t tread the same beaten path that is being followed by everyone. Do not compromise on principles and dare to speak up the truth. The country will progress only then.”
 
 Bhushan Kumar Sharma, principal, read the annual report of the college and shared the achievements of the college during the year. “SD College has been conferred with A+ grade for its academic excellence and outstanding achievements by the   ( ). The college also bagged many meritorious positions in the Panjab University results. The college bagged 212 gold, 173 silver and 153 bronze medals in sports. The students of the college have won 3 gold, 2 silver and 1 bronze medal in international tournaments. We also lifted the overall trophy in Zonal Youth Festival, Panjab University, for the fourth time in a row.”
 
 
