AJMER: In a gruesome murder, a prisoner lodged in   Central Jail allegedly killed his cellmate using a table spoon as knife and pierced the victim’s heart early Thursday morning.

 Preliminary police investigations revealed that the murder was a fallout of a petty dispute—the accused had asked the victim to tell the distance between Kota and Ajmer but the latter refused to answer.
 
 Both the prisoners were serving life sentence after being convicted for murder. The city’s   police have a registered a case over Thursday’s murder and city magistrate   went to jail to probe the matter.
 
 Killing shakes jail as well as dist officials
 
 Ajmer: The murder shook the jail and district authorities. Sources said that in barrack number 19 of the jail,   Meena (50) of   from Bundi district and Anwar (53) of Kota had fights earlier on different issues. Both were convicted in different murder cases and both had issues of who was ‘superior’. “Prisoners keep an image as seniors in crime and others follow them to exist peacefully in jail,” said a source.
 
 In the preliminary enquiry, it came out that when both were returning last night after dinner, Anwar asked a question to Pannalal about the distance from Kota to Ajmer to which the latter refused to reply stating that he was not his pupil. The other inmates laughed at this and Anwar took it as an insult.
 
 Sources said that early this morning, Anwar woke up and used a spoon sharpened into a knife to stab and pierce the heart of Pannalal. “We found some witnesses in the same cell who described the incident,” said the police.
 
 According to Civil Lines police, prisoner Pannalal was found dead in barrack number 19. The doctor on duty in the jail was called to confirm the death. The deceased prisoner’s body was sent to   for postmortem. Anwar (53) has been identified as the accused in this matter.
 
 City magistrate   came to the jail and initiated an inquiry into the matter. The Civil Lines police have registered a case. Police added that they would arrest the accused on production of court warrant.
 
 Sources said that the murder had shaken other prisoners. The jail administration is investigating how Anwar managed to get the steel spoon into his cell.
 
