AHMEDABAD: He does not have a house to call his own but for autorickshaw driver Alamkhan Pathan, honesty is what matters the most.

 On Tuesday, after dropping a couple near Gheekanta court on the Relief Road, he realized that the passengers had left a bag in the rickshaw. When he opened the bag, he found gold-silver ornaments and a file containing important documents.
 
 Realising that the couple had been to the court to attend a court marriage, Pathan went back and waited for the couple to come out. After a long wait, he finally spotted the couple and gave the bag to the couple.
 
 This is not the first time that Pathan had turned a Good Samaritan. Earlier, he had returned a suitcase containing valuables which had been left by a businessman residing in Satellite area. Pathan had also returned a purse containing valuables to a passenger. The 64-year-old even offers free rides to those who cannot pay him the fare. 
 
 The passenger who had forgotten the bag was later identified as Sunny Macwan. Macwan, an android developer, said, “My parents, wife and grandmother decided to take an autorickshaw for the court. I was given the bag containing gold and original documents which were required for my sister’s marriage. However, in the hurry to attend the marriage, I forgot the bag in the rickshaw. Realizing the lapse later, I ran back to look for the rickshaw only to return empty handed.”
 
 Macwan said that from the email copy he somehow managed to complete the process and thought of filing a police complaint later. “We thought that by using   we would be able to trace the driver. But when I came out of the court, we found him standing near the gates looking for me with the bag in his hand. My joy knew no bounds when I saw him with the bag.”
 
 “When we checked the bag, everything was intact. I decided to give Pathan some money, but he was reluctant to accept anything. However, when people convinced him that it was not a reward but the amount to compensate the loss he suffered because of the incident, he agreed to take the amount,” said Macwan.
 
 Pathan said, “The bag had documents and jewellery. I realise how important they are for a person. It is his hard-earned money.”
 
 
