GURUGRAM: Four men robbed a Delhi-based lawyer’s driver of the   he was driving and his mobile phone after taking him at gunpoint in Sector 44, near   and Huda City Centre Metro station on Thursday. The four forced him to drive to an isolated area in Sohna and dumped him there before fleeing with the car, a Hyundai Creta. 

 Interestingly, when the lawyer called his driver on his mobile phone, the robbers misled him by saying he got injured in an accident and had been admitted to a private hospital in Noida.
 
 According to police, the driver Vinod Kumar, originally a resident of Kangra, Himachal Pradesh, drove his employer Hariharan Subryamanyam, an advocate based in Delhi, and his wife to Gurugram. They headed to a hotel near   hospital for dinner around 8.30pm on Thursday, and Vinod was asked to wait for them.
 
 Vinod then went to a dhaba near   market for his dinner, and afterwards parked the SUV near the service lane adjoining Fortis. 
 
 Around 10pm, he stepped out to urinate. When Vinod returned, four youths surrounded him. One of them pointed a gun at him and made him unlock the SUV. The youths pushed him to the rear seat and got inside as well. The accused held him hostage at gunpoint and drove the SUV from Subhash Chowk towards Sohna. 
 
 They dumped him in an isolated area after snatching his mobile phone, and fled with the car.
 
 When the lawyer called Vinod on the latter’s phone, one of the accused received the call and told him that his driver had been injured in an accident and was admitted to Max Hospital in Noida. 
 
 Alarmed, the advocated contacted the hospital, but found that Vinod had not been admitted there. 
 
 Vinod somehow managed to contact his employer on Friday morning, who told him to inform cops. On the basis of Vinod’s complaint, an FIR was registered against the four uni-dentified accused under sections 365 (kidnap), 379B (snatching and use of force) and 34 (common intention) of IPC and section 25-54-59 of Arms Act at Sushant Lok police station on Friday.
 
 “We are trying to identify the accused with the help of CCTV footage from nearby areas,” said ASI Sanjay Kumar, the investigating officer.
 
 
