MUMBAI: Looks like   has plunged into further chaos. Even as final year TYBCom exams, taken by the largest number of final-year students, commences Tuesday, the university is struggling to complete assessment, announce results and avoid   clashes for several others.

 To begin with, final-year students of   are baffled with their exam time-tables. “Semester V and semester VI exams are overlapping on five days, though the timings are different. Many students often fail one or two papers in semester V and have to re-appear. The university cannot expect us to appear for two papers in a day,” said a finalyear student from a suburban college.
 
  
 Results of BMM semester V exam were announced on March 21. With re-valuation results unlikely soon, students who have failed will have no choice but to take the repeaters’ exam, scheduled from April 25.
 
 Another teacher pointed out that ‘Contemporary Issues’, a subject common for both final-year BMM advertising and journalism students, has been scheduled on two separate days in the semester VI exam time-table. A university official claimed the university would make the revision. The official also said semester V exams are likely to be scheduled from May 8 to avoid a date clash.
 
 BCom (Accounting and Finance) or   students who have appeared for the exam in November are waiting for their results. “Several BAF students seek admissions abroad for higher studies. With the semester V results not announced for over four months, students are already worried about their final semester results. The delay will limit students’ career options once again,” said a principal, adding over 4,500 BAF papers are yet to be assessed. Close to 1,800 answersheets are pending assessment in cost accounting-III alone. “The current status paints a worrying image for students,” added the teacher.
 
 Results of a majority of exams under the law faculty are also pending.  , president of law students’ council, said the university has already missed the 45-day deadline to announce results. “We had urged the university to post the results by the end of April first week and to hold re-examination after a sufficient gap or we would be forced to protest,” said Pawar in a letter addressed to vice-chancellor,  .
 
 While exam controller Arjun Ghatule remained unavailable for comment, an official said the university is likely to postpone most law exams.
 
