JAMMU/PATNA: The problem in one’s life begins only when his/her greed escalates, chief minister   said at Jammu on Monday after receiving the first Mufti Mohammad Sayeed Award for probity in politics and public life.

 Quoting Mahatma Gandhi that this earth is capable of fulfilling the needs and not the greed of humans, Nitish said, “Growth with justice is our motto. We are working for the development of all sections in  . We ensure protection of environment and our archaeological sites. We have established rule of law and are trying to strengthen it further in the atmosphere of brotherhood and social harmony.”
 
 Nitish praised Sayeed for his relentless efforts for restoring peace in the Valley. Recalling the PDP founder’s famous quote that “no solution will come from confrontation”, the Bihar CM said disputes could be resolved in Jammu & Kashmir through talks only.
 
 Referring to his government’s programmes for social reforms in Bihar, Nitish said, “It’s a great moment for me and the 11 crore people of Bihar that I am honoured by Jammu and Kashmir. My focus is on development, social harmony, maintenance of peace and a corruption-free transparent governance in Bihar.” He thanked Jammu and Kashmir CM   and the Mufti Mohammad Sayeed Trust for selecting him for the award. Nitish also recalled his long association with the late Sayeed since the   days. 
 
 Earlier, Nitish received the award from Jammu & Kashmir governor N N Vohra. Lord  , Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and JD(U) national general secretary   were also present on the occasion.
 
 The award was constituted recently by the PDP to commemorate its founder and two-time J & K CM late Sayeed. “It’s befitting that the first Mufti Mohammad Sayeed Award is being conferred upon @NitishKumar ji. His contributions in bringing probity in public life as well as his crusade against corruption in Bihar is commendable,” Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. 
 
 ‘Politicians should work for public, not for self’ 
 
 Later, addressing the Jammu & Kashmir unit of his party JD(U) at Jammu, Nitish said those in politics should work for public with honesty. Without taking any name, he said it was unfortunate that an atmosphere had been developed in the country where politicians and those in the government “think they are there to only enjoy the fruits”. Besides concentrating on overall development, they have to work for social reforms as well, Nitish said.
 
 He also launched a website of the JD(U) and assured the party workers of his participation in the convention in March-April and his full support to strengthening the party in Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 J & K JD(U) president G M Shaheen welcomed Nitish and said his presence boosted the party workers’ morale in the state.
 
 
