GUNTUR: Officials at the   (GMC) seem to have not learned any lesson from the recent public health disaster in the city. Staffers of sanitation wing are handling cleanliness issues carelessly even after the diarrhoea outbreak. Negligent officials have not attended to several major drains that are clogged and overflowing in many areas of the city.
 
 This comes after GMC commissioner Shrikesh B Lathkar issued specific instructions to officials on action that need to be taken.
 
 In fact, the GMC had launched a massive sanitation drive in   area following reports of outbreak of viral infectious diseases last week. However, the sanitation staffers left the scene within two days of launching the operation, leaving the area stinking.
 
 While hundreds have been found suffering from jaundice, it has been noticed that children are also falling ill because of mysterious fever. The district medical and health department authorities put the city civic administration on a high alert soon after inputs came from hospitals about rush of patients suffering with viral diseases. The health department suspects that unhygienic environs are contributing to frequent outbreak of viral infections in the city.
 
 Taking a serious note of the situation, the GMC chief had directed the sanitation wing officials to keep the city clean. He instructed officials to lift silt and garbage from residential areas immediately after it is removed from the drains to avoid spread of diseases. He also asked the staffers to deploy gulpers and JCBs to remove silt from major drains.
 
 Surprisingly, the staffers haven’t taken the instructions seriously, and have left the silt lifted from drains on roads.   of Israilpet, said: “I was shocked when I saw pigs moving in the colony, almost after a decade. It is because of the horrible functioning of the sanitation wing.” Women in the town are complaining that the silt piled up along the drains across colonies is spreading stink. “The sanitation staff are careless in answering to our pleas,” said   of Venkatraopet colony.
 
 The silt removed from Guntur-Vijayawada main road, too, is lying on the road despite all senior officials and VIPs using the road.
 
 The citizens, who suffered a lot during the recent outbreak of diarrhoea, are worried that the lethargic functioning of the health wing staffers might result in continual spreading of diseases in the city.
 
 
