From being an 11-member band in 2015 to a seven-member band currently,   has come a long way. Known for their progressive Carnatic   tunes, the Bengaluru-based band, which will be performing in the city this weekend, is also known for their unique dressing style. We spoke to vocalist Shivaraj Natraj about the band, their journey and their future plans.

 
 The seven-member band mostly comprises engineering students from the city. “The band was formed in 2015 when we chose members from the college’s   club. Since most of us have a classical music background, we wanted to put that out in a different form. That’s how it all began,” says Shivaraj. Prod him about the name of the band and he says, “Mishram in   means mixture. Since we are a mix of classical with western, the name went well with the band’s ideologies.”
 
 
 
 Although the band is known for its   fusion tunes, they also experiment with others genres. “We have experimented with metal, EDM, progressive metal, dub step, reggae, blues and funk in the past. We are currently in the process of experimenting with jazz. As a fusion band, we want to put up shows with multi-dimensions. Each song we perform is a mixture — it’s a complete experience packed in one performance,” says Shivaraj.
 
 
 
 Being an 11-member band was never easy, says Shivaraj. “Initially, when we began, it was more of a friendship accord. However, there were many challenges that we faced. Logistically, it would be difficult when we used to travel. When we had to perform at events and competitions, we realised that there were too many elements in the band and in our performances. And some of the members left since they had to pursue their day jobs,” adds Shivaraj.
 
 
 
 The band remains true to its name by dressing up in a veshti and formal shirts. “We want to stay true to our name. We are, after all, a mishram — a mix. So, in that sense, we wear veshtis and formal shirts,” says Shivaraj adding, “This way, we hold onto our traditions through our music and the way we dress.”
 
 
 
 Shivaraj says that the band is currently working on six new songs and is keen to explore newer avenues in the future. “We want to collaborate with different artistes and want to explore different genres so that we can make new music and learn more. In addition to this, we are also releasing our next single, titled Tamasat, which is about anger and sattvic nature,” Shivaraj sums up.
 
 
