HYDERABAD: A former pilot is battling for life after three unidentified assailants attacked him with knives and rods at his apartment complex opposite Police Officers' Mess at   on Wednesday night. Police suspect owners of a restaurant on Road No. 10, Banjara Hills, with whom the victim has a long-standing dispute, may be behind the attack. His condition is critical as he suffered multiple injuries. 

 Around 11pm, 59-year-old  , a pilot who lived in   and Canada for many years, returned to his apartment complex, Elegance Luxury Apartment, in his car after visiting the Exhibition at Nampally, police said. 
 
 Immediately after he disembarked from his car, the assailants, who were lying in wait, launched an attack with knives and rods. When he resisted and tried to escape, they chased and repeatedly attacked him before fleeing from the place in the auto. The attack was captured by a CCTV camera and police are verifying it to identify the culprits.
 
 "Ikram returned from the Exhibition along with his friend Mansoor. The CCTV footage showed that the trio arrived in an auto 30 minutes before Ikram's arrival and were seen loitering near the apartment. The victim was first attacked on his face and subsequently on his left hand and back," assistant commissioner of police (Asif Nagar)   told TOI. 
 
 His friend Mansoor and his children came to his rescue. Meanwhile, police, who were alerted, reached the spot and shifted the victim to nearby Care Hospital. Police suspect the attackers might have been hired by Amoodi, who owns a restaurant on Road No. 10, Banjara Hills. In 2015, associates of Amoodi had attacked Ikram over the restaurant space. The victim's family run an NGO, which works for Indo-Arab ties. 
 
 Police found that the getaway auto had no number plate, but had a symbol. Police suspect that someone showed the victim to the assailants when he reached his house. After the attack, they fled towards Masab Tank. 
 
 Hospital sources said, "The victim is critical and undergoing treatment in SICU." Police have launched a hunt for assailants.
 
