It was the first time that Vasanthi, a housekeeping staff member in a mall, sang on the stage in front of an audience. Her body language did suggest she was nervous, but her voice was flawless when she sang.   is among 30 members of Mouli’s Karaoke Club who chose to pursue their passion - singing.

 Out of the living rooms, when power cuts forced families to play antakshari, these bathroom singers have found their space on stage among live audiences in the city. Interestingly, many of them had never performed on any stage earlier.
 
 K Chandramouli, 58, founder of the club, said it was after his retirement that he decided to start this club. In 2006, when   who is known for his singing skills, was asked to perform at a family function, he developed cold feet as he was worried he wouldn’t be able to sing without an orchestra. "My friend handed me a CD with more than 300 tracks that had the lyrics displayed on the screen along with the music. I was surprised. I began practising with it and performed at the wedding. Slowly I got so obsessed with it that my family began to get worried," he said.
 
 His wife  , who is an award winning retired teacher, said she never thought she would be a singer one day. "When Chandramouli and Sreenivasan started the club in 2016, we were glad the madness was out of the house. But at that time little did we realise that we too had developed a passion for it. Since I sing Hindi songs, he requested me to be part of the club. Since then, it has been a two-year journey of 20-odd shows, 90% of which were for charity," she said.
 
 The club’s members include college students, techies, business men, home makers and retired professionals. The members meet five days a week and get trained by professionals. A Karthikeyan, a vocal trainer, said he got to know about the club in one of their shows. "I was impressed with the way they functioned and the passion they had. So I joined them. We are like one big family. We laugh, we play, we dance and, of course, sing," he said. The elderly in the club do find it difficult to learn new languages and singing techniques at this age, but their passion keeps them going, said S  , a music teacher.
 
 The club held a competition for its members last year and it was judged by professionals. "It is passion that drives us and it is a great stress buster for all of us," said  , a retired bank manager.
 
 For Dhanya, a home maker, joining the club was life changing as she was in a personal crisis and in depression. It was this club and singing that helped her survive. "I am a Carnatic singer but do not know film songs. Over the past few months I have learnt 60 songs," she says with a bright smile.
 
 The club functions out of a rented building at Tatabad. The group recently attempted a 24-hour karaoke singing world record as part of a Tamil culture fest organised in the city. The members perform at charity functions and weddings free of cost. "We charge the members of the club Rs500 each as we have the rent to pay. Otherwise, this club is completely for singers with a passion," said Mouli.
 
 
