Trichy: Nothing has been said in the budget for uplifting the small and marginal farmers. It clearly shows that the union government is keen on bringing in a corporate setup in the agriculture sector, alleged farmers in the delta district. By announcing Rs11lakh crore as credit for the farm sector, the union government will be creating a good number of debtors, they said. The long-pending demand for 50% minimum support price is a welcome move. However, it should be amended immediately, said general secretary of the Federation of Farmers Associations-Cauvery Delta Tamil Nadu and Organizer-Save Farmers-Save India Movement Arupathy P Kalyanam.“To prevent farmers from taking the extreme steps, the government should allow interest-free crops loan to the farmers. Farmers should also be given other loans with an interest rate of 4%. This was the demand raised by the farmers across the country. However, the budget has no mention of this,” he alleged. “BJP had demanded the implementation of M S Swaminathan committee recommendations for the Minimum Support Price when it was in the opposition bench. But, it is turning a blind eye towards this issue for the last four years”, alleged secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai R Vimalnathan. The finance minister had stated that the income of the farmers would be doubled before 2020. He did not elaborate how that can be achieved, he added. Puliyur A Nagarajan, state organiser of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress said, “Farmers are disappointed that there was no announcement on writing off the crop loans. There is uncertainty on the implementation of 1.50% additional Minimum Support Price for agriculture produces,” he said. The union government should ensure that the announced 11 lakh crore farm loan is given to the farmers. Minimum support price will be fixed at 1.5 times the cost of input and it is an encouragement for the farmer producer companies. This would boost agriculture, said state spokesperson for Bharatiya Kisan Sangh N Veerasekaran. P S Masilamani, state deputy secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, expressed discontent over the silence of the finance minister on pending crop loan. Announcing minimum support price is a welcome move. However, who would determine the production cost,” he asked. The volume of credit announced by the union governments is going up. But, the number of beneficiaries has been drastically coming down. That is not a good sign, he added.