PANAJI:   chief coach Sergio   admitted that his team was left with no choice but make a quick dash to the   stadium, or risk forfeiting their   encounter against   on Wednesday.

  FC Goa’s battle against ATK kicked off 2:45 hours behind schedule. The match was originally scheduled for a 8pm kick off, but given that FC Goa were at the Goa airport till 6.30pm, the organisers pushed back the kick off to 9:45pm. ISL rules stipulate that organisers can delay kick off for a maximum of two hours, and further delays are completely at the mercy of the home team.
 
  In all fairness, ATK never wanted three points on a platter and agreed to all extensions. But had FC Goa not reached the venue before 10pm, organisers would have been forced to award a walk over, the first of its kind in the ISL.
 
  “Yesterday, we took a flight that had to turn back and make an emergency landing. This morning we tried and had to come back again. We spent the entire day at the airport, nowhere to rest and nothing to eat. We had to come running (to the stadium) and if we didn’t, we would have lost three points. We had to change and come back for the match within five minutes after training,” Lobera told reporters after his team rescued a point with a 1-1 draw.
 
  FC Goa landed at the stadium at 9:42pm without their kit and warmed up in their travel gear.
 
  “Never in my professional life have I seen a situation like this. ISL is a great league, great competition and it doesn’t deserve matches like this. The circumstances we had to face in the last two days as a team did not permit us to play this game.
 
  “The only thing I can be content with is none of my players were injured. It was incredible. I have never seen a team warm up in their travel gear and it is not good for anyone; not good for the fans, players or the league,” said the Spanish coach.
 
  With the players spending 10 hours at the airport in Goa, and then huddled inside the aircraft for close to three hours during their flight to Kolkata, there was an element of risk in going ahead with the encounter. Player injuries was a big concern, but FC Goa emerged unscathed.
 
  “I think my players had great mental strength and physically they did well despite the problems. We represented the fans and people of Goa with pride today,” said the Spanish coach.
  “The health of players is most important. I am grateful no one was injured. We took a great risk,” he said.
 
  FC Goa will next play NorthEast United FC on Saturday. The team has already reached Guwahati, and will surely be better prepared to move to the top of the ISL table.
