NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to revert to the old name of the district hospital in Noida and drop the prefix “Bhimrao Ambedkar” has led to a political tussle, with the BSP accusing the BJP-led administration of trying to “break away from tradition”.

 The district hospital in Sector 30 had been named “Dr   Multi-speciality Hospital” by the Mayawati regime after it was handed over to the   in 2008. Sources said the then government had merely passed an order announcing the change in the name but had not issued any gazette notification.
 
 The BJP-led government has recently decided to take over the hospital from March this year after the Noida Authority expressed inability to run it citing shortage of funds.
 
 Following the government’s decision, a new board going back to the previous name of the health facility — Government District Combined Hospital — has come up on the premises. The earlier board mentioning Ambedkar, however, is yet to be removed.
 
 Sources said though the Mayawati government had decided on the name change in 2008, all official records would refer to the facility as “Government District Combined Hospital”, what it used to be called earlier.
 
 According to the sources, even the previous   government would refer to the hospital as “Government District Combined Hospital” in its records but stopped short of installing a board.
 
 The new board came from Lucknow on Friday and was installed at the hospital gate a day later.
 
 “The name of the hospital had always been government district combined hospital. The Noida Authority, however, would refer to it as Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar hospital after it was handed over the facility in 2008. Now that the state government is taking over the hospital, it is just clarifying the fact,” said Ajay Agarwal, the chief medical superintendent of the hospital.
 
 Asked if the board mentioning the name of Ambedkar would be removed, Agarwal said it would be done in the coming months.
 
 The Opposition BSP termed “wrong” the move to revert to the earlier name.
 
 “It would be wrong to say that the name Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Multi-speciality Hospital was not in the records. The government’s decision is a wrong step and an attempt to break away from tradition,” said Ravikant Mishra, who had fought the election from Noida on a BSP ticket.
 
 
