The Minister of State, Health and Family Welfare,  , urged the States and Union Territories not to serve junk food items, including carbonated drinks and fried food in college canteens. A few months ago, the   ( ) had also issued a notification asking colleges to adhere to the rule of serving  . The college canteens in the city offers myriad options to students and in this edition of What’s Up Campus?, we hopped across to private and government colleges in the city to check out the canteen’s ‘Healthy Quotient’. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare classifies food High in Fats, Sodium and Sugar (HFSS), and low on nutrients as junk or unhealthy.

 
 
 The college has three canteens- Anna Canteen, which is centrally located, Law college canteen and IMDR, located on two ends of the campus. 
 
 
 HFSS items: Vada pav, samosa, bread pakoda
 Non-HFSS items: Sandwich, bun omelette, nimbu sherbet, upma, poha
 The food at the Anna canteen is not palatable. Most of us frequent this place on account of its location. The omelettes cooked here are very oily, and the sandwiches are stale. I think the only healthy option here might be the nimbu sherbat, which they usually introduce in the 
 summers. — BSc third year student Vijay Bhosale 
 
 Everything available at the canteen is made by the local staff and sometimes the taste may not be consistent. But we try to maintain a certain standard. We 
 cannot introduce new items in the menu because the workforce is not regular. If we introduce something new and are not able to keep up, the students will complain. — Prabhakar Shetty Anna canteen head
 
 Law college canteen is much better than Anna canteen and it is priced at a similar range which makes it affordable. Also during summers, they provide lemonade and kokum sherbat. There is nothing as such to complain against this canteen, but we would still say that the IMDR canteen is the best one in terms of food quality — B.Sc third year student Mayuresh Jagtap 
 
 
 
 HFSS: Samosa 
 Non-HFSS items: Idli, upma, poha, thalipeeth, lunch meal
 
 From day one, we have made a conscious decision to not introduce junk in our menu. We may be priced a little higher than other canteens, but it is in the benefit of the students. Quality is sacrosanct for us and the college gives us no support in terms of infrastructure or funding for the same.
 —Vivek Khare, IMDR canteen head
 
 We keep reviewing and instructing the canteens in the campus from time to time so as to make healthy food available to the students. Also in terms of price, we tell them to keep it affordable. But providing them subsidy is difficult since we receive no funding for the same.
 —Dr RG Pardeshi, Principal of the college. 
 
 
 
 The college has one canteen- Symbi Eat. The canteen menu has plenty of options for the students including salads and freshly pressed fruit juices
 
 HFSS: Chinese and samosa 
 Non-HFSS items: chapati, salads, fruit juice, steamed vegetables and thalis
 
 Students have an option to choose from various salads and freshly pressed fruit juices which are served with healthy breakfast like oats, egg bhurjis etc. Our canteen has a policy to not reuse fried oil to prepare food. Since Symbiosis is home to resident students, we also prepare thalis with rice, chapati, vegetables and raita for lunch and dinner. We have maintained the UGC directives always. 
 — Canteen owner Suraj Gade
 
 We believe in providing healthy and nutritious food to all our students keeping in mind the need for wellness and an active and hectic lifestyle of today’s youth. Symbi Eat serves more than 300 dishes and seven different types of cuisines and we make sure that the canteen is hygienic and food is prepared fresh.
  — Head of the campus centres department 
 Dr Amay Yervdekar
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The campus had three main canteens – Aniket canteen, Adarsh canteen and Santrupti caterer. But a week ago, a student found a dead lizard in his misal pav at Adarsh canteen, subsequent to which it is closed presently.
 
 HFSS items: Misal pav, Chinese noodles, ice-cream Non HFSS items: Parathas, fried rice, roti vegetable meal, lemonade, kokum sherbet 
 
 Just because the canteen has the UGC qualified items on their menu, it does not make them healthy. The nutritional value and the way it is cooked determines if the food is healthy. I do not find the quality of food in the canteen to be good. I think they should take our reviews more seriously and improve the quality.
 — Sanket Deshpande, a law student
 
 Going out of the university campus might not always be an option. So we have to eat in the canteen. We always find the food made in unhygienic settings. We have even complained about this. But the quality improves for a few days. 
 —  , student of MA Political Science
 
 We are open to inspection and everything we do is as per the norms. The menu is also from the list of UGC approved items. But it is not always possible to satisfy everyone. Whatever healthy food we can provide in reasonable rates, we are providing. Students do demand unhealthy things at times so we have to keep them in the canteen.
 — Amod Dhekane who runs the Aniket Canteen
 
 Every two months we conduct inspections of the canteen. Not just in SPPU, but also in other colleges affiliated to SPPU. We also have a complain mechanism where students can also approach us anytime. Besides, providing nutritional food available to the students, we have a fruit stall in the campus. In few weeks, we are going to start giving the girl students from the hostel, jaggery and nuts since they are more prone to anemia
 — Prabhakar Desai, Director, Board of Students’ welfare in SPPU
 
 
 
 When we went to the BMCC canteen, we found out that menu had limited options like samosa and misal
 
 HFSS items: Pakoras, samosas, fried chips, 
 carbonated drinks Non HFSS items: Buttermilk
 
 We are aware of the UGC directives on serving healthy food, but here the policy is that fried food sells and students are offered just that. — Canteen in charge 
 We are now introducing many healthy items including roti, dal, bhaji and salads in the menu. In two months, we will revamp the menu. — Canteen committee member
 
 
 
 There are three canteens at the college and students keep raising issues related to banning junk food. 
 
 The taste may vary, but all I can say is hygiene is maintained at all our college canteens. Swami Uncle (canteen in charge) ensures that students get food served on a clean table. Mess food is not good in terms of taste, but cleanliness is why I go to eat there all the time. —Dinesh Kamble, SYBA political science
 
 We make random visits to the canteens to check if the hygiene and quality are maintained. We also ask the students anonymously whether the food served is healthy. We have maintained a transparency between the students so that they can directly come to us with their problems. The rates are also reasonable and they have been asked not to randomly increase the rates. —Dr Ashok Chaskar, faculty and member of canteen 
 
 
 
 
 The widespread definition of healthy food is constricted. It is not just to avoid food rich in fats, salt and sugar, but should also have micronutrients like protein, carbohydrates, vitamins and minerals. The typical food items which are provided in canteens like poha, upma, paratha will provide good amount of calories, carbohydrates, fats and even little proteins but are mainly lacking in dietary fibre, vitamins and minerals.For example if we take a serving of rava upma, it will provide you approximately 250-280 calories, 15-17 gms of carbohydrates, 5-7 gm fat and 8-9 gms of protein only (no vitamins and minerals and also fibre). To make these type of foods nutrionally more balanced we need to add vegetables like (poha with green peas , potato and cauliflower; paratha with all vegetable stuffing; upma made of oats and veggies or else we have to make a combo pack meal like vegetable stuffed paratha. 
 — Madhavi Paunikar Dhakate
 
 
 
 
  
