PANAJI: Two days after Goa town and country planning minister Vijai   called domestic tourists visiting the state as “scum of the earth” and refused to apologise for his remark,   chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar called his Goa counterpart Manohar   on Sunday and lodged a strong protest against Sardesai’s remark.

 Sardesai, a senior member of Parrikar’s cabinet, on Friday criticised his own government’s mass tourism policy and had said: “Today, we have almost six times the population coming into Goa. Those tourists are not the top-end tourists, but   of the earth.” 
 
 Sardesai’s words created a furore across the country and on social media. Congress’ communication in-charge and Haryana MLA Randeep Surjewala put pressure on Khattar to demand Sardesai’s resignation or to accept that   was unable to protect the interests of the people of Haryana.
 
 “I spoke to @manoharparrikar ji and expressed my strong objection towards statements reported in media by State Town & Country Planning Minister,” Khattar said on Twitter. “He (Parrikar) explained that it was a misquote and that the minister was referring to earlier unplanned infrastructure development of Gurugram.”
 
 Interestingly, Sardesai, who was speaking on the topic of Green Goa at Goa Biz Fest, did not mention anything about infrastructure development in Haryana or north India. He specifically referred to garbage and littering by a section of domestic tourists.
 
 Sardesai had said the heavy influx of north Indian tourists was making it difficult for the state to address the issue of garbage and cleanliness. The state government’s tourism policy is aimed at attracting 1.2 crore tourists into the state annually. 
 
 Khattar’s tweet did not convince his own people, with many citizens asking him about the rising crime rate in Haryana, especially violence against women.
 
 Sardesai himself has refused to apologise for his statements and stood by his remark that Goa needs to dissuade budget tourists who come to the state but do not contribute to the state’s economy.
 
 “I have not called everyone from the 6.5 million tourists as scum of the earth but had called certain section of them who were creating nuisance, who are actually the scum of the earth and we should not have such tourists in Goa,” Sardesai had tried to clarify on Saturday.
 
 Sardesai, who is the president of the Goa Forward Party, said that as a regional party, he had to espouse local sentiments. GFP with three MLAs, all ministers, is a key ally in the Parrikar-led coalition government.
 
 
