NEW DELHI: A 14-year-old   girl has allegedly been   by three youths inside a guard room at a park in east Delhi’s Mandawali. All three accused, along with three others who were standing guard while the girl was being assaulted, were caught on Friday. Two of them claim to be juvenile, said sources. 

 The police received a call from Lady   on Thursday after the girl’s parents admitted her to the psychiatry ward where she is still being treated. During the counselling session, the survivor, who has been undergoing treatment at the hospital for her condition for the past three months, narrated the ordeal to her doctor. 
 
 The girl, who studies in Class IX at a government school in east Delhi, told cops that on Wednesday evening, one of the youths, who was her neighbour, called her to the nearby park to play with his friends. When she reached the park, they dragged her into the guard room and raped her. She also told the police about the three others who had kept a watch.
 
 The assault went on for nearly half an hour following which the youths fled after warning the girl that her family members would be harmed if she confided in anybody. 
 
 The girl went home and locked herself in, the doctor said. 
 
 The girl’s father, who owns a grocery shop in the colony, returned home later in the evening and found her reacting unusually. After she refused to tell them anything, the father contacted the doctor. 
 
 “Immediately after receiving the complaint, we formed teams to track the neighbour who had lured the girl to the park,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Omvir Singh. It was found that the accused were rag pickers and lived in shacks in the area. All of them were allegedly drunk during the incident, sources said. 
 
 The youths, who used to pick scrap in the area, had spotted the girl returning home from tuition classes and decided to lure her to the park, they added.
 
 The DCP said a case under sections of gang rape and criminal conspiracy had been registered and the youths were caught from the locality on the basis of the survivor’s statement. 
 
 
