NEW DELHI: Personal enmity and not encounter may have been the reason behind the incident in which two people were shot at by a sub-inspector,   said today as it suspended three policemen and sent one to jail.

 
 "This is certainly not a case of an encounter. Prima facie it seems a case of personal enmity. We are verifying everything," area SSP Love Kumar was quoted saying on ANI.
 
  
  
 On Saturday, two people were injured after they were shot at by a police personnel in Uttar Pradesh's Noida Sector 122. One of the injured was shot in the neck and is said to be critical. The other was shot in his leg.
 
 Addressing the media, Kumar said that four policemen have been suspended and one policeman has been sent to jail.
 
 "Besides sending the accused trainee sub-inspector to jail, the role of other three policemen, two constables and a sub-inspector, is being investigated. All four of them remain suspended," he said.
 
 Earlier today, the family of Jitendra Yadav family had alleged he was shot in a "fake" encounter by police. The family members had also accused the policemen involved in the incident of targeting the duo because of their caste. 
 
 Even   targeted the state's police officers for stage managing encounters to seek job promotions.
 
 "Innocent man named Jitendra Yadav shot in the neck in another failed encounter bid by @noidapolice in Noida. @UPGovt trying best to keep the issue away from the media. He is fighting for his life in Fortis Hospital. @Uppolice officers shooting innocents for promotions. Plz RT," party spokesperson Pankhuri Pathak had tweeted.
 
 Of late UP Police has been in news for aggressively pursuing criminals in the state. This week, as many as 24 wanted criminals were arrested and one gangster killed in 15 police encounters reported from 10 districts of the state within a span of two days.
 
 The encounters were reported from Muzaffarnagar, Gorakhpur, Bulandshahr, Shamli, Hapur, Meerut, Saharanpur, Baghpat, Kanpur and Lucknow. In all the cases, police recovered firearms including a carbine, factory and country-made firearms apart from cash, jewellery and cars most of which was robbed by the criminals.
 
