Actor  , known for playing villainous roles in movies like 'Asambhav,' 'Mazaa Mazaa' and 'Tridev', was recently in Lucknow to promote his latest show ' : Ek Sangharsh'. The actor had evocative feelings after landing in Lucknow. Several memories of his childhood spent in the Nawabi city came flashing to him. "I still remember our visits to Lucknow, where my father’s youngest sister Mohini used to stay in  . I remember those lanes and the big kothi where we used to spend our vacations. Now when I visit the city, it is always touch and go so my major missing is the nazakat that people used to have at that time and the food. Jo uss time khaya karte thay ab we hardly get that authentic taste," said Tej, who is currently seen in serial 'Dil Se Dil Tak'.
 Tej, who was always into sports and had played various state level badminton matches, believes that acting was never on his wish list. "I was basically a sportsperson. Playing sports was my passion. I had played various state-level badminton championships for Maharashtra and then I played cricket for Mumbai. After reaching the age of 24, I used to do karate and kung fu. Acting, I believe, was in my genes as I have grown up in an illustrious family of stars like my father DK Sapru and my mother  . It came naturally to me. Phir ek baar acting ki toh tab se wahi kar raha hoon," said the actor.
 For the actor the most important thing in the field of acting are his roles. Tej prefers to do roles which are powerful and are larger than life. "The first thing that attracts me towards any serial is my role in it and the kind of stuff you are making. I like to play roles which are powerful and the kind of role which may not be as important as the hero or the heroine but without that character the film or serial would not work. I still remember when the role of Thakur in the serial 'Kesariya Balam' was narrated to me, I felt it to be very strong just like Nargisji's who played the role in  . And now people associate me with my negative roles which I used to portray on the big screen, which again is a big achievement for me," said Sapru.
 — Prachi Arya
 
 
