CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday stayed the orders of the Chandigarh district court in dispute of property worth Rs 20,000 crore between two sisters of   royalty, the late maharaja’s nephew and a trust.

 While staying the orders passed by the district court on February 5, Justice Surinder Gupta of the HC has also summoned the lower court record pertaining to the case. The case would now come up for hearing on May 25.
 
 HC has passed these orders on an appeal filed by Deepinder Kaur, Maharwal Khewaji Trust against Amrit Kaur and other respondents.
 
 The additional district and sessions court Chandigarh had dismissed the appeal filed by a nephew of late Harinder Singh, the last maharaja, and   which was declared “illegal and void” by a lower court in 2013.
 
 The appeals were moved in the court of additional district and sessions judge by daughter of  , the nephew and Maharawal Khewaji Trust against the order of a trial court of chief judicial magistrate in August 2013.
 
 According to the August 2013 order, two daughters of the former maharaja of Faridkot Amrit Kaur and Deepinder Kaur were granted inheritance of assets worth Rs 20,000 crore. But this was challenged by late maharaja’s nephew Bharatinder Singh by arguing that the former ruler’s will was illegal and void. Bharatinder then staked claim to the property, citing the ‘rule of primogeniture’, according to which property rights were granted to the first born son or eldest living male blood relative.
 
 After a two-decade long battle, the former ruler’s two daughters were granted inheritance to assets including the   at Copernicus Marg near India Gate, the palace in Faridkot and Manimajra Fort, properties in Mashobra (Shimla), besides bank deposits, jewellery and vintage cars, including a Rolls Royce.
 
 In its appeal against the orders, the trust has submitted that another registered will, prepared on May 22, 1952, was executed by the former ruler. As per that will also, eldest daughter Rajkumari Amrit Kaur had been excluded. It was also submitted that the will dated June 1, 1982, had also been discarded on frivolous grounds and facts beyond pleadings.
 
 The HC was informed that even if the property was to go by way of natural succession, Rajkumari Amrit Kaur was entitled to only 1/4th share as the raja’s mother was alive at the time of his death.
 
 
