NEW DELHI: Four major   in as many days have again put a question mark on safety standards in the capital’s major manufacturing hubs. Firefighters say a majority of the workforce in industrial units doesn’t have even the basic training to respond to emergency situations.

 A fire department official who didn’t want to be named said: “Most factory owners don’t train workers for emergency situations. It’s not a priority as these men are often replaced. In many cases, workers have lost their lives to the basic error of running inside and locking themselves in a room to escape a blaze.” In a recent incident at a jeans factory in Karol Bagh, he recalled, a worker lost his way in the smoke and confined himself to a washroom where he died of asphyxiation.
 
 Another reason for the heavy loss of life and property due to fires in Delhi, according to officials, is that firefighting equipment isn’t easily accessible to workers. As a result, crucial time is lost by the time help arrives. “There aren’t adequate exits at most units. During night, factory gates are often locked from outside as these function illegally. In the Bawana factory blaze, which claimed 17 lives, the damage could have been far lower had the main gate not been locked. The only person to survive the incident did so by jumping off the first floor,” a firefighter said, adding that small entrances made it tough for rescuers to take quick action. Poor wiring and inferior building material often resulted in short circuits, the primary cause of fires, he said.
 
 Officials rued that people didn’t approach them to seek fire safety certificates and, even when they did, they hid information to complete the formalities quickly. Police officers, in turn, claimed that jurisdiction issues resulted in delayed response to emergency situations. Also, cops cannot take suo moto action against people violating safety norms in industrial areas.
 
 “Despite the presence of illegal industrial units, we can act only after an accident. Every factory owners need a set of licences that are granted by various civic agencies. They can only be approved after a site inspection. These owners either bypass these agencies, or manage to get the clearances without fulfilling all the requirements,” a senior police officer said.
 
 
