CHENNAI: A quiet cultural interaction between Tamils in India and   has been taking place for a long time, but it was only in the beginning of the 19th century that it was documented. Starting from 19th century, a steady flow of Carnatic musicians played key roles as cultural ambassadors between these two countries, enriching and extending the frontiers of music. 

 Tavil maestro   was one among them. "Whenever we talk about Carnatic music, we associate it only with the southern states of India, conveniently forgetting the significant contribution made by Sri Lankan musicians," said filmmaker Amshan Kumar, director of the award-winning Tamil feature film, "Oruthi."
 
 The linguistic region of Tamils in Lanka had a great tradition of classical music dating back to the Sangam period. For instance, Yazhpanam (today's Jaffna). "The name Yazhpanam itself resonates with its association to music. 'Yazh' was a string instrument and 'Panan' the musician and hence the name," said Kumar. "Sri Lanka attracted musicians steadily from India in the past several centuries. Other than Tamil, the common language, it was music that strengthened ties between the Tamils of the two nations."
 
 Speaking on "Carnatic music tradition of Sri Lanka and Tavil Vidwan Yazhpanam Thedchanamoorthy" in the city recently, Kumar's talk provided an outline of the musical heritage of the island nation. Unlike Tamil Nadu, instruments like   and Tavil are given importance over vocal music in Lanka, according to Kumar. This attracted many from   to Sri Lanka. s"Musicians from Tamil Nadu went to Sri Lanka to participate in local concerts and in temples. Some of them got married and settled there. Apparently, musicians from Lanka crossed the Palk Straits to gain more knowledge in music from musicians in Tamil Nadu, mostly from Thanjavur," said Kumar , adding, "The Lankan musicians also believed that their learning would remain incomplete if they didn't have a 'gurukula' experience under veteran gurus in Tamil Nadu."
 
 The great Tavil maestro  's forefathers migrated from India to Sri Lanka. Born in Ceylon (today's Sri Lanka) in 1933, his father   migrated from Thanjavur to the island in the early 20th century. "Thedchanamoorthy had his early music schooling in Tamil Nadu. His great contribution was his laya in music. He introduced to Indian audience the practice of playing 'thani' (solo performance of accompanying instrumentalist within the concert pattern ) for hours together," said Kumar.
 
 
