Ludhiana: Two days after Malaudh police booked a financier for allegedly driving a 42-year-old debt-ridden farmer to suicide at Ramgarh Sardaran village in Ludhiana, the police started the process to issue a lookout notice for him after it came to fore that the accused might have left India and probably has gone off to the US.

 On Wednesday night, Jaspal Singh of Ramgarh Sardaran, who was under Rs 20lakh debt, ended his life by consuming poison in his house.
 
 Police had later booked Devinder Singh of Nizampur village for abetment to suicide on the basis of a suicide note left by Jaspal in which he had accused the former of harassing him for money.
 
 Payal deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rashpal Singh Dhindsa said they had raided the house of the accused in Nizampur, but came to know that he is abroad for the past two years. He said now they have started the process to issue a lookout notice against the accused.
 
 Police officials said they would also write to the Indian embassy so that they can get in touch with US authorities for the arrest of the accused and his deportation. They added that the accused had left for US about two years ago and since then he has been living in that country.
 
 Cops said the accused had a finance company in Malaudh town before he went to the US.
 
 Meanwhile, Jaspal’s family asked police to arrest the accused as soon as possible. They added that the accused is responsible for Jaspal’s suicide.
 
 “He had taken loans from two banks and a moneylender. Besides, a financier was pestering him to return the money that he lent to his friend,” a cop had said. “Jaspal’s friend had taken a loan from financier Devinder Singh. As Jaspal stood as guarantor, Devinder asked him to repay the loan after his friend died in an accident. Devinder was harassing him to repay his friend’s loan. He had paid him Rs 21000 after selling his buffalo,” said Jaspal’s nephew Kuwlinder Singh.
 
 Box: After dinner at 9pm on Wednesday, Jaspal went to his room on the first floor of his house. He asked his wife, Rajwans Kaur, to wake him up at 6am as he had to go for some work. Around 6am, when Jaspal’s mother Pyar Kaur, 65, went to wake him up, she found him dead. On hearing her cries, other family members rushed to his room and found a poisonous substance near his body. They then called up the police. The police recovered a suicide note from the spot. In the note, Jaspal wrote that Devinder was harassing him to repay his friend’s loan. An abetment to suicide case was registered Devinder.
 
 Jaspal is survived by his mother, wife and two sons aged 19 and 17 years.
 
 
