NEW DELHI: Hundreds of   gathered at  ,   and   of the capital on Sunday to spot and document as many   as possible. They were participating in  , an annual national event started by a  ,  .

 About 38 teams from Delhi-NCR participated in the event, each having 10-40 birders. The results, which will take a couple of days to be compiled, play a crucial role in documenting the number of birds and diversity in the country. 
 
 In all, more than 10,000 birders from across the country participated. In Delhi-NCR, birding sites like Dighal, Sultanpur, Basai, Asola, Najafgarh, Yamuna Khadar, Mangar Bani, Dhanauri, Dadri, Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Aravalis, Yamuna Biodiversity Park etc were explored. “It’s very difficult to give the trends right away. We haven’t got any reports of exceptional sightings from Delhi-NCR yet,” said Nikhil Devasar, one of the organisers who spent a part of the day at Dighal.
 
 
  
 Yamuna Biodiversity Park recorded 104 species this year as compared with 103 last year. Rare sightings included the Grey-headed lapwing, Ferruginous pochard, mallard, Red-crested pochard and garganey. “The Grey-headed lapwing is an important sighting and we have been seeing for two weeks now. It is a rare bird for Delhi...the count also helps us to know the right habitat and environment. A high count of birds means that the habitat is thriving,” said Faiyaz A Khudsar, scientist in charge, Yamuna Biodiversity Park.
 
 At Kamla Nehru Ridge, the number of species spotted went down to 45 this year from 55 in 2017. Woodshrike and White-eared bulbul were the rare sightings in the area.
 
 However, numbers at Tughlakabad Biodiversity Park and Tilpath Valley rose significantly this year to 52 and 43 species recorded respectively as compared with just 26 species at each of the locations last year. 
 
 The sightings at these locations included a Sirkeer malkoha, common woodshrike, Yellow wattled lapwing and Yellow-eyed babbler, among others.
  
 M Shah Hussain, scientist in charge at Aravalli Biodiversity Park said, “A total of 900 birds of 79 species were spotted during the count period. Important bird species that were seen in Aravalli Biodiversity Park included Jungle bush quail, Eurasian eagle owl and Oriental skylark”. 
 
 He added, “Tufted duck was also sighted at Neela Hauz Biodiversity Park after its restoration. The highlights, Jungle bush quail and Eurasian eagle owl, are rare for south Delhi”.
 
 
