Kapil Sharma, who’s often seen attending events organised by the   says his love for the uniformed forces is not because of his police background, but a result of his dream to join the forces. The actor-comedian, who was recently in Delhi to attend the last day of the  ’s (Sashastra Seema Bal) three-day Sandiksha mela, told the jawans that had he not been in the television industry, he would have been one of them.
Along with Kapil,   and Meenakshi Lekhi, MP, were also present at the event as special guests for the evening. 
 
  
  Meenakshi Lekhi, MP
 
 
 
 Kapil arrived quite late at the event and blamed Delhi’s flyovers for the delay. He said, "Main jab bhi Dilli aata hoon toh koi na koi naya flyover mil jata hai, aur main har baar bhatak jata hoon." Talking about his fascination for the paramilitary forces, he said, "Agar main TV industry mein nahi hota toh main bhi forces join karta. Mere pitaji police mein hai, mera bhai police mein hai aur meri mummy ke family ke log police mein hai. Hamare yahan jab function hota hai toh itni police hoti hai ki lagta hi nahi hai ki hum log koi function mein aaye hain. Main gaya tha BSF aur Army mein bharati hone, uss samay seva karne ka mauka nahi mila, toh ab jawano ke chehre par smile aa jaye yehi badi baat hai mere liye."
 
  
  Jyotirmoy Chakraborty, ADG, SSB
 
 
 
 When Mohit Chauhan arrived a bit late at the event, Meenakshi Lekhi said, "The SSB jawans put up such brilliant performances that I forgot that they are not artists but our jawans. You have missed some really good performances." 
 Though Mohit wasn’t in the mood for a concert night, he couldn’t say no to his fans.When Renuka Mishra, IG, SSB, requested him to sing his first song Dooba Dooba, he borrowed a guitar from a member of the SSB’s music band and said, "This one’s for you, IG ma’am."
 
  
  Renuka Mishra, IG, SSB
 
  
  Rajni Kant Mishra, DG, SSB
 
  
  Arun Kumar, ADG, BSF
 
  
  Wife of SK Bhagat, ex-DG, RPF 
 
  
  Kapil’s hilarious jokes left the audience in splits
 
  
  The SSB personnel gave power-packed performances at the event
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
