GURUGRAM: Mohammad Jasif had to cycle nearly five kilometres from   to   after he found out   was not being held in his  .

 Jasif was among hundreds who had gathered at the Sector 47 ground, opposite the state vigilance bureau office, on  . Others came in groups in shared autos and e-rickshaws to the ground.
 
 Jasif, a labourer, told TOI some people had shouted at those reading namaz in his village last Friday. He added that he had managed to find the Sector 47 spot for offering   but four of his co-workers had decided to give namaz a miss. 
 
 “They were scared after what happened last week in our village and other places,” he said.
 
 Other devotees who were with him shared a similar experience. They said they had visited multiple regular namaz spots before finding one where they could finally offer prayers. 
 
 “I went to the spots in Sector 14 and the Huda City Centre metro station and Cyber Park. But I could not find anyone praying at these spots. So, I drove around and found this spot,” said Zubier Ahmed, an autorickshaw driver who is originally from Mewat.
 
 A man from Kanhai village, who did not wish to be named, also found his way to the Sector 47 ground in time for namaz but claimed nearly 150 people from his village had missed the Friday prayers because they weren’t aware where to perform it.
 
 IT professionals who normally prayed outside Cyber Park also had to go to other spots. 
 
 “We get 10-15 minutes during our lunch break to pray but today, we spent over 45 minutes to choose a spot and pray. Also, there is fear and anxiety about praying in the open. This atmosphere is curbing our right to pray,” said Atif, who works with an IT company at Cyber Park.
 
 But amid the fear, apprehension and animosity created over the past month with local Hindutva outfits taking it on themselves to stop namaz at open spaces in the city, many residents of Gurugram, Hindus and Muslims alike, are working to ensure a peaceful environment. 
 
 They were seen at namaz spots on Friday, assuring congregations that despite disruptions, people from all communities wanted peaceful co-existence of all religions.
 
 “While there has been a lot of confusion and fear, many people have come forward and supported us. I guess it is important to realise that most people don’t want disruption of communal harmony,” said Imran, one of the volunteers.
 
 
