Nagpur: The much awaited three-day charity exhibition ‘Shrinkhala 2018’ organized by a team of youngsters at Janmanch Yuva was inaugurated by guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule in the presence of Sharad Patil, president of the parent organization Janmanch, at Sanman Lawn, on Friday. 

 The unique initiative by the youth brigade is aimed to bride the gap between rural and urban talent and bring them under one umbrella. Underprivileged artisans, craftsmen and culinary experts got a chance to showcase their expertise and promote their goods in mainstream market of city. They were given the stall for free.
 
 Bawankule appreciated the efforts taken by the college going students for the noble cause. He said, “January 12 is also National Youth Day and birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda. The youngsters have done a commendable job in acknowledging real life problems and extending a helping hand to the less fortunate.” 
 
 Running into its third year, Bawankule encouraged Janmanch Yuva to bring a greater difference now and adopt a village in Vidarbha and work for its uplift.
 
 Revolving around the ‘village theme’ there were stalls for artistic seedbed jewellery, ethnic clothing, bags, clay and terracotta products. 
 
 Members of self help groups from Gadchiroli, Jalgaon, Chandrapur and Murtijapur put up stalls of pulses, spices papad along with regional cuisines like jhunka bhakar, sabudana wada, litti choka, puran poli and many other delicacies. 
 
 The colourful decor, trendy props and rural theme-based ambience charged up the atmosphere. Twenty-three-year-old Renuka Indurkar enthralled everyone with her wonderful classical renditions of ‘Aaj jaane ki zid na karo’, ‘Ranjish hi sahi’ and ‘More Kanha’. 
 
 Member Rasika Bangre said, “We have a wide range of exclusive items to cater the needs of people belonging to all age groups. Overall   is a wholesome package of entertainment and the perfect way to start your weekend.”
 
 Shrinkhala also proved to be a boon for young entrepreneurs who were exposed to market. Kunal Chandel and Tejawini Kalmegh who displayed their photoshopped art, said, “Our three-month-old start-up runs completely online but it’s only when customers see our products for real, they develop a trust.” 
 
 “Being students and managing college together, we faced some challenges in contacting genuine people who would get the benefits. But the District Rural Development Agency and senior members of Janmanch guided us, said organizer Shambhavi Pande.
 
 
