KOLKATA: The New Year’s Day races at the   ( ) has always been a glamour event that socialites of this city are keen to attend. Though bleary-eyed after attending the late-night bashes at the various clubs, well-dressed men and colourfully clad women of all ages trooped in through the turnstiles well before the first race at noon. The stands were well and truly bulging by the third race of the day. 

 With the current cold weather playing its part, this year’s mega event witnessed an attendance of over 20,000. Speaking to TOI, RCTC secretary Kanchan Jana said that considering it was a Monday, it may be considered as a very encouraging figure. “Though there were no celebrities among us, the crowd was colourful and well-behaved who had made it a point to enjoy themselves – come what may. What added to their merry-making was that seven favourites obliged in a card of nine race,” he said.
 
 “The turnstiles never stopped turning as visitors poured in by the hundreds. The totalisator counters were jingling with cash right through. The tote collection of nearly Rs 1.5 crore was almost double that of any other day,” he added.
 
 Bearers with trays of coffee, beer and sandwiches added to the festive atmosphere and for once, the so called pros of the game had to take a backseat. Soon the sprawling food court and lawn bars were packed. Some members of the fair sex could be seen tapping their feet to the Neil Diamong oldies and other gold discs of the sixties and seventies that the DJ seemed so fond of, and which were indeed rather apt for the occasion. Selfies were the order of the day and classy smart phones and I-phones were vying with each other for attention as well manicured hands were seen holding them up. 
 
 The race for the RCTC Gold Vase provided a suitable climax to the day’s proceedings as a rip-roaring finish saw Ophion edge out   for the top spot. Those of you looking for an encore are advised to make it to the same venue next Sunday when the   is scheduled to be run. That ought to be a race worth waiting for as it is sure to set the adrenalin flowing !
 
 
