GURUGRAM: A 19-year-old, who worked as a system operator for a disc jockey, was arrested from an upmarket hotel in the city, after he was caught red-handed sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl during a family function on Monday.

 The girl may have accidentally wandered into the men’s toilet, when the accused grabbed her and allegedly fiddled with her private parts. She managed to extricate herself from the assaulter’s grasp and rushed out crying, where she was met by her father. Just as she had told him what had happened, he saw the accused running out of the rest-room and nabbed him, before handing him over to police.
 
 Police have booked and arrested Rohit, originally from Kithwari village in Palwal district, but presently living on rent in Patel Nagar. Later on Monday, he was produced in a city court that sent him to judicial custody.
 
 The shocking incident happened in the early hours of Monday at Hotel Crossroads, in Sector 15 Part II. The child had arrived with her family to attend the marriage ceremony of her maternal uncle. All was going smooth till around 12.30am, the child was noticed rushing out of the rest-room, crying out loudly. Her father rushed to her side, when she told him that a man had grabbed her inside the rest-room and tried to fiddle with her private parts. 
 
 The father noticed the accused running out of the rest-room and nabbed him. Soon, guests and hotel staff gathered and called police, who arrived to arrest the accused. They were taken to Civil Lines police station, where, based on the complaint of the survivor’s father, an FIR was registered against the accused, under Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act.
 
 “The family was attending a private function. Just after midnight, the child wandered into the rest-room while playing. 
 
 “The accused was already inside. He grabbed and assaulted her before she could run out,” said inspector Narender Khatana, SHO, Civil Lines police station. 
 
 He added, “Her father saw her crying and noticed the accused running out of the toilet. He grabbed the accused and raised the alarm. Today, we have produced the accused in a city court. He has been sent to judicial custody.”
 
 The senior manager of the hotel, Sanjeet Kumar Das, said he was aware that there was a brawl between some people inside the hotel, but he was unaware of the details. 
 
 “The police reached the hotel and later sought CCTV footage, which we have provided,” said Das.
 
 
