Chennai: Of the almost 32 crore bank accounts opened by all banks under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) scheme, as high as 10.5 crore or a third of them were opened by State Bank of India. 

 In total, public-sector banks account for 80% (25.4 crore) of all accounts opened, with dismal participation by private banks. 
 
 Even regional rural banks have opened more accounts (5.04 crore accounts or 16%) than private sector banks who have opened only 99 lakh accounts (3%) in total, as of March 28, 2018, said the PMJDY website. 
 
 “The reason is the costs involved. Public-sector banks are having to incur the charges of opening and maintaining an account -- which does not have the cash flows to justify that expense. While they might have to do this as part of their social-sector-priority-sector initiatives, the same complusions do not govern private banks,” said Vishwas Utagi, vice-president, AIBEA. 
 
 PMJDY, which aims at financial inclusion, allows zero-balance account opening. Holders need to maintain minimum balance only if they require cheque book and other facilities. 
 
 The scheme also comes with a Rs 1 lakh insurance cover. “We did a study and we found that the logistics, cost of labour, load on the system worked out to Rs 27 for one PMJDY account opening. And this does not include the cost of operations, account maintenance or issuance of RuPay cards. Other than old-generation private banks like Dhanalakshmi Bank, and Catholic Syrian Bank, most private banks shy away from opening Jan Dhan accounts,” said Harvinder Singh, general secretary, All India Bank Officers' Confederation. 
 
 “The cost of issuance of RuPay cards alone is about Rs 100; all operational costs put together it comes to Rs 200 per year per account. We asked the government to reimburse the banks this expense, but to no avail,” added Singh. Bank unions also point out that they have to pay out interest on deposits in these accounts.
 
 Data from PMJDY website shows public-sector banks share of total deposits is 80% (Rs 63,022 crore) of total deposits of Rs 78,494 crore as of March 28, 2018.
 
 Regional rural banks contributed to 17% of deposits, while private banks contributed only 2.7%. When it came to issuance of RuPay cards also —which carry with it benefits like insurance — public sector banks issued 19.06 crore cards, compared to RRBs 3.7 crore cards and private banks issuing 99 lakh cards.
 
 
 
