KOCHI: A presbyteral council meeting of the Ernakulam-Angamaly diocese held on Saturday decided to postpone the Chrism Mass, an annual ceremony usually held on the first Monday of the Holy Week to June in the wake of the spat between a section of priests and the head of the Syro-Malabar   Alencherry following the land deal row.

 The Bishop’s House at Broadway, Kochi saw high drama after different factions, led by the laity demanding transparency in church matters and the cardinal’s supporters came to blows even as the council meeting was going on in another room in the house in which   interacted with a council of priests.
 
 
 An official communiqué from major archeparchy of Ernakulam Angamaly and undersigned by Cardinal Alencherry,   Edayantharath and Mar Jose Puthanveetil, issued after the meeting, stated that a first step towards a resolution has been taken in the meeting.
 
 “The problem would be resolved through continuous discussions,” the communiqué stated. According to a priest who attended the council meeting, the cardinal joined the council meeting at around 5.30pm. “We asked him not to apologise again. To solve the financial problems, an expert committee has been formed. The cardinal has spoken to us in terms of achieving asolution,” said the priest.
 
 The council meeting started at around 3pm and the laity under various organisations associated with the church, led by Archdiocesan Movement for Transparency, had gathered outside the  . In addition, there were believers from other dioceses as well, who had come in support of the cardinal. A heated argument ensued between the two groups which escalated into a scuffle. “There is no reason for people from other dioceses to come to the Ernakulam Bishop’s House. They were here to create problems. We had to force them out,” said an AMT volunteer.
 
 Police later removed the crowd from the premises of the Bishop House even as some tried to stage a sit-in protest.
 
 
 
 
 The   (KCBC), which has been trying to find a way to resolve the row, said on Saturday it was ready to reveal the ‘truth’ behind the controversial land deal to the public. KCBC official spokesperson Fr Varghese Vallikkatt said it has recorded the statements of Cardinal Alencherry and the priests. “ We have prepared a document and it the heads of the church want us to publish it, the KCBC will officially announce the details of the land deal,” said Fr Vallikkat.
 
