LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced two revenue officials to two years rigorous imprisonment in a corruption case, whereas the court ordered three years rigorous imprisonment to a private person in the same case. Special judge Tarntaran Singh Bindra also imposed a fine of Rs 2,000 each on three convicts, including two revenue officials, and in default of payment of fine, to undergo further imprisonment for a month.

 On April 29, 2015,   police station had booked Arvinderpal Singh, tehsildar (West),  , registration clerk tehsil (West) of Chhappar village, and Bhim Singh, registration clerk tehsil (West) of   in Fountain Chowk, under various sections of Prevention of Corruption Act and criminal conspiracy on allegations of taking bribe from a person.
 
 As per prosecution, Neeraj Rattan of Haibowal Kalan lodged a complaint with Vigilance Bureau police station, wherein he claimed he had to purchase one plot measuring 75 square yards, situated at Flower Enclave. He added that for registration of the plot’s sale deed, he approached the office of sub-registrar (West) Ludhiana on April 4, 2013, where he met a person called Bunty Kumar, who disclosed that he was the lamberdar of Sunet village, and was working as an agent on a private basis, facilitating registration of sale deeds in lieu of money.
 
 Bunty further claimed that he performed all works related to registration and attestation of sale deeds, as he had been deployed by the tehsildar and directed to append a specific code upon documents for fetching a minimum of Rs 2,000 from intended buyers. In case anyone refused to pay the said amount, the buyer is harassed and compelled to make the payment. Bunty also demanded Rs 2,000 from the complainant for registration of his plot’s sale deed without any hurdles. Though the complainant promised to pay Bunty Rs 2,000, he reported the matter to senior superintendent of police, Vigilance Bureau.
 
 Later, Vigilance Bureau police arrested the accused, after laying a trap in the office of the sub-registrar. During investigation of the case, tehsildar Arvinderpal Singh, clerks Parvinder Jeet Singh, and Bhim Singh were also nominated in the case on the ground that the tehsildar had appointed him (Bunty) on a private basis, and he had access to record, which was to be maintained by two clerks. Later, the tehsildar too was arrested, but subsequently discharged after he was found innocent in a supplementary report.
 
 During the trial, the three accused persons pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. To substantiate the charge, the prosecution examined as many as 19 witnesses, including the complainant, shadow eye witness, two eye-witnesses, assistant director (Documents),  , junior scientific officer, and   among others, before closing of evidence. The court — after taking evidence on record — sentenced the two revenue officials and the private person in the case. 
 
 
