New Delhi: Haryana has pipped Punjab in taking the dubious distinction of the lowest   in the country with only 3.59% green cover, according to the State of the Forest Report (FSI) 2017.

 According to the FSI report, Haryana overtook Punjab, which has 3.65% forest cover. Though both states’ ratios are abysmally low when compared to the national target of 33%, experts believe Haryana might fare worse in future FSI reports as it is yet to take protective measures for both the Aravalis and Shivaliks under its jurisdiction. Punjab, however, has started taking some immediate steps to secure the Shivaliks around Chandigarh.
 
 Recently, forests in about 16 villages in Shivaliks were left vulnerable after a Punjab government notification dated February 3, 2003 expired on February 2, 2018. The notification, which categorised these villages as “forests”, ensured protection from land use change under sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA). Punjab, however, re-notified the forest cover on the same day of the notification expiry, putting 21,944 acres under the protective blanket of the PLPA.
 
 Haryana, on the other hand, has failed to re-notify 20,851 acres out of 25,037 acres forest cover, which expired in the last 10 years. This has left the Aravalis in Haryana vulnerable to land use change for real estate and other projects.
 
 Instead of re-notifying the forest areas, the Haryana government has started identifying “forest” and “non-forest” areas in land already notified under sections 4 and 5 of the PLPA.
 
 An independent study, based on data available on the Haryana forest department website, revealed that the PLPA “protection” notification has already lapsed in 36 out of 38 villages in Gurgaon, 10 out of 17 villages in Faridabad, 47 out of 57 villages in Mewat, all 12 villages in Mahendragarh, all 9 in Rewari and 1 in Palwal.
 
 “As opposed to Punjab, in south Haryana even complete hill areas haven’t been notified as forests. In Mangar village, there are 3,810 acres of hill area and only about 1,132 acres are notified. Haryana needs to re-notify all the areas where notification has lapsed or is about to lapse and to include the remaining Aravali areas in the notification,” said environmentalist Chetan Agarwal, who conducted the study.
 
 Shivaliks and Aravalis in both Punjab and Haryana have similar challenges where large swathes of forest land has already been “illegally” privatized, but Punjab’s move to re-notify these lands gives them protection from major land-use change.
 
 Punjab’s move to re-notify its forests and Haryana’s status quo on re-notification will reflect in FSI’s 2019 report, Agarwal added.
 
 Punjab has managed to add about 66 sqkm of forests compared to the FSI report 2015 which is mainly attributed to an increase in tree cover outside of recorded forests as per FSI. But Haryana didn’t even manage that, and recorded an increase of only 8 sqkm in forest cover. Haryana has, however, lost 1 sqkm in the Shivaliks in Panchkula, it has also lost forest cover in central Haryana. The policies of both states in securing and increasing forest cover will be crucial in tackling air pollution in NCR and conserving groundwater resources here.
 
 
