PATNA: CM   said on Monday the policy on fencing Muslim graveyards only from the corresponding ‘priority list’ available with the respective district administrations would be relaxed and MLAs and other legislators could also get it done from their local area development (LAD) fund.

 Intervening in the government’s reply given by energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav to the starred question of   member Shamim Ahmad and others in the state assembly, the CM said, “The existing rule is that only those graveyards have to be fenced which are on the priority list prepared by the DM and SP of the respective districts. This rule can be relaxed if the members of the   want to get the fencing of graveyards of their choice with the LAD fund under  .”
 
 He, however, requested the members to get the fencing work done first of the graveyards which are on the priority list as it had been prepared in view of their “sensitivity” in 2005-06.
 
 Overall, over 8,000 such graveyards had been identified. Of them, over 5,000 graveyards have already been fenced, the CM said, adding the remaining ones have to be fenced.
 
 The CM also intervened in the starred question of   member Vijay Kumar Khemka, who had sought construction of boundary wall at the Kali temple in Mahendrapur village of Bikrampur panchayat under Purnia East block of Purnia district. 
 
 The CM said there were two conditions, that the temple concerned should be old enough to warrant its heritage value and it should also be registered with the Dharmik Nyas Samiti.
 
 The MLAs and legislators concerned could also use the money from the LAD fund under CM Kshetriya Vikas Yojana for which the planning and development department could be asked to do. 
 
 Meanwhile, urban development and housing minister Suresh Sharma, in reply to a question of JD(U) member  , said there was no controversy over the land acquired by the government at Digha, as farmers whose land had been acquired had started taking the compensation amount. He also said over Rs17 crore had been paid to the Patna district administration to pay compensation to the farmers who turned up to claim the amount. 
 
 
