PATNA: Decks have been cleared for the formation of dedicated cybercells in all 38 districts in   as the state government has sanctioned 740 posts in police department. They will work as cyber experts in Bihar police.

 Out of these 740 posts, 74 are for software experts, who would head cells named cybercrime and social media units ( ) in each district. The candidates for these posts should either have engineering or MSc degree in computer science.
 
 Also, 222 data scientist with at least three years’ experience and a diploma in computer science would also be appointed. “Even the engineers will require to have at least three years of work experience. They will rise up to the rank of additional superintendent of police (ASP) in their career,” sources said. They also said each cell would have one inspector, three sub-inspectors and two constables apart from an engineer and three data scientists.
 
 Approval to this effect was given earlier this month in a high-level meeting between finance and home departments, including senior police officials. The state police headquarters had sent the corresponding proposal for creation of posts and details of other annual financial expenditures for the cells to the home department in May last year.
 
 A senior home department official said in addition to the sanctioning of posts, a sum of Rs2.4 crore has also been approved for initiating steps to establish the cells. At least Rs20 crore would be spent annually on CCSMUs for its functioning and training. The cells would, however, not have the power to lodge FIR.
 
 “Earlier, senior officials had proposed hiring youths through BELTRON on contract, but chief minister   rejected it saying no outsider will be allowed in the police department,” the official said.
 
 He said the required equipment for the cells have already been purchased and handed over to the district police. “The CCSMU officials will be trained on cybercrime courses used by   (CBI). A separate training wing will be established for CCSMUs,” he said.
 
 The CCSMUs would work under the aegis of Economic Offences Unit (EOU), which handles and investigates all sorts of cybercrime incidents across the state from its Patna headquarters. The present team of cybercrime experts has only 11 members.
 
 Patna police would be given four CCSMUs, while EOU would have additional five units in the state capital. Four rail districts — Katihar, Jamalpur, Patna and Muzaffarpur — would also be given one unit each.
 
 Districts having less than 20 police stations would have one CCSMU each, while those between 20 and 40 police stations would have two CCSMUs. Three CCSMUs would be established in districts having up to 60 police stations.
 
 
