NEW DELHI: A group of Nigerians   at a colony in   and it all ended with one of them getting killed while other injured on Friday night. Police said a group of 10-15   attacked each other with knives and baseball bats during which one of them was stabbed. Three men have been detained, police said.

 Locals told police that this was not the first time such an incident had happened in the area. The two groups have been fighting for a week. 
 
 The incident was reported around 10.50pm when locals called police to inform about the fight near the Y-point at Chhatarpur 60-feet road. Eyewitnesses said, during the fight, the victim, Harrison, tried to escape but fell after tripping on a bench at a tea stall. Meanwhile, cops reached the spot and found Harrison dead with a stab wound on the chest, while the others fled the scene.
 
 “A team led by SHO Atul Kumar found that the accused were residents of   nearby. We are trying to identify the men who stabbed the victim,” said DCP, (south) Romil Baaniya. Sources said that one of the accused has been identified as Kewue. 
 
 A preliminary probe has revealed that Harrison, who has been living in the country for the past three years, had got into an argument with some people during a house party at Nanda Colony. 
 
 The argument led to a fist fight between the two groups during which Harrison had picked up a stick and attacked a member of the opposite group. Following this, the other group members chased Harrison down at Chattarpur Pahadi where they stabbed him. 
 
 Local said despite the injury, Harrison kept running, while the others chased him. He finally fell unconscious near the tea stall and died.
 
 Police sources said Harrison had a number of online lottery-related messages from different people on his phone, which cops suspect could have triggered the murder. Harrison’s body has been sent to the AIIMS mortuary and the Nigerian Embassy has been informed about the incident. They would contact his family and hand it over the body next week.
 
 Harrison was staying with a woman at a house in Chattarpur Pahadi, however, the woman disappeared after the murder, police said.
 
 
