She has walked 2,800 km across nine states to create awareness about women's empowerment and safety. And on Sunday,  , an ex-corporate employee, reached Delhi to organise a   at  . The walk was organised as part of her project, 'Women's Safety and Empowerment through Digital and Financial Literacy', in collaboration with the   (NCW). 

  
  A girl holding a placard at the night walk 
 
 At the walk, held ahead of the International Women's Day, hundreds of people from across generations and backgrounds came together and walked from India Gate towards Rashtrapati Bhavan to "reclaim the night".
 
 
 
 To create awareness, Srishti is travelling by foot from Kanyakumari to Kashmir, a 3,800km journey, of which the last 1,000km is left. Before the walk was flagged off, members of Sukhmanch Theatre performed a play on the atrocities that women face in their day-to-day life.  , chairperson of NCW, while addressing the crowd, said, "At the age of 30, Srishti left her job in Hong Kong and decided to work for victims of domestic violence. Aur woh yeh desh ka bhraman karke kar rahi hai. We decided to support her because she is helping us. Raat ko Delhi mein bahar chalne ki baat aaye toh hum sab ghabrate hain. Aisa kyun? Yeh sadake utni hi mahilao ke liye hain jitni ki aadmiyon ke liye. That is why we all have gathered here today to demand safe roads. We will also walk outside at night like men, and it is the responsibility of our administration to provide us safe spaces."
 
  
  
 
  
  Hundreds, including youngsters, elderly and many activists, walked from India Gate towards Rashtrapati Bhavan ahead of the International Women's Day
 
 
 
 Among those who came to lend their support to the walk were women cab drivers, the first woman DTC driver   and stand-up comedian  . Vankadarath said, "It feels great to see that so many women have come to take part in this walk. A lot of women take inspiration from me, and that is why I came here today – so that people know that we, women, can do everything. It does not matter whether we are working in the day or at night, we need to reclaim our rights and spaces."
 
  
  Papa CJ
 
  
  Vankadarath Saritha
 
 Anushka Srivastava, a national-level rugby player who was present there, added, "The idea of this walk will at least make women believe that they can walk out at night. Dar toh lagta hai, par aisi initiatives se kuch toh change aayega."
 
  
  Members of Sukhmanch Theatre performed at the event 
 
 
 
 
 Talking about her project, which aims to use digital literacy to create awareness about women's empowerment and safety, Srishti told us that the Bulandshahr highway rape case, where a mother-daughter duo was raped, is what triggered her. "It used to make my blood boil when people used to say, 'Yeh toh India hai', and 'Ab main kya karun?'. The indifference is what I wanted to change. I started this in September last year. When I was interning with UN Women, I learnt that the digital space is going to bring about change. If you can teach a woman, who doesn't know how to read or write, how to use a mobile phone, that is what digital literacy is all about," she said.
 
  
  Srishti Bakshi 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
