COIMBATORE:   regional centers in Coimbatore, Madurai and   would start offering undergraduate (UG) courses from the current academic year, announced chief minister   in the city on Thursday.

 A total of 720 students would be enrolled in UG courses with each centre accommodating 240 students in four streams, he said in a statement. 
 
 An officer in the higher education department said computer science, mechanical, electrical and electronic engineering and electronic and communication engineering would be offered this year in Coimbatore regional centre. “These four were selected based on the availability of facilities and number of faculties at the regional centres. There might be some variations in the courses offered from a centre to centre based on the facilities available,’’ he said.
 
 “The decision was taken after the state government received repeated requests to offer UG courses in regional centres. This move would benefit students from economically backward sections of society to get quality professional education at a nominal cost,” the chief minister said.
 
 Sources in the higher education department said that the plan to start UG courses was mooted two years ago as strength of postgraduate students at regional centres came down gradually.
 
 “The strength has come down from 15,000 to 6,000 over a period of five years,’’ said an officer in the higher education department. The centres have about 40 teaching faculties and 15 teaching fellows for over 25 courses, including ME, MBA and MCA.
 
 Anna University has been admitting students for both UG and PG courses at its Chennai campus as well as 13 constituent colleges across the state, though regional centres of the university in Coimbatore, Madurai and Tirunelveli were taking in students only for PG courses all this while.
 
 Coimbatore centre has sufficient laboratory and hostel facility to accommodate additional students from this year. Anna University authorities have also submitted additional requirements of the centre for further development.
 
 “Over a period, number of students, courses and facilities at the centre would increase gradually,” the officer said.
 
 
