CHENNAI: Government bus services across the state are expected to be hit from Friday after the various transport workers’ unions announced an indefinite strike following the failure of the   talks with the government .

 Nearly 40% of government buses were off the roads from late evening on Thursday and more are expected to join the strike on Friday, said representatives of some of the 46 workers unions that participated in the meeting chaired by transport minister M R Vijayabaskar.
 
 Late in the night, the government said buses would be operated by temporary staff, but sources said commuters were bound to be affected. At least 1.8 crore passengers, on an average, travel in 20,800 government buses across the state daily.
 
 More than one lakh employees of various undertakings, including   State Transport Corporation ( ), Chennai-based Metropolitan Transport Corporation ( ) and State Express Transport Corporations ( ), would stay off work, they said. Trade unions are demanding an increase in wages as per the 2.57 multiplication factor so that the basic pay of the transport employees, most of them hired on a contract basis, would be revised to Rs 19,500 a month on a par with permanent state government employees. On its part, the government suggested that the employees agree to be categorised into these groups depending on their experience those with more than six years of service, less than six years of experience and the newly recruited (2013-2016).“Going by this, nearly 80,000 people in the first category would get a raise of Rs 2,300-Rs 11,800, those in the second category would get a basic pay of Rs 17,500 and that of others would rise as per the 3 multiplication factor,” sources said.
 
 Asked about the disparity between new and old employees, authorities said former transport minister Senthil Balaji had then promised a hike using the 5.2 multiplication factor and that the current suggestion was aimed at fulfilling that promise.
 
 The unions, however, were not impressed. “If we were to accept the government’s proposal, basic pay of most employees would be only Rs 16,900-Rs 17,500 per month,” said M Shanmugham of the DMK-affiliated Labour Progressive Front (LPF).
 
 Even as the talks were on, employees began protests, responding to calls on social media platforms like WhatsApp and by around 6pm, many government buses in Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore, Trichy and other districts went off the roads.
 
 Around 8pm, Vijayabaskar proposed increasing the pay using the 2.44 multiplication factor, saying that agreeing to the original demand would increase the financial burden on the state exchequer by more than Rs 1,500 crore annually. Transport corporations had incurred a combined loss of Rs 16,000 crore last year. 
 
 The unions rejected this offer and those belonging the LPF, CITU and 10 other unions walked out.
 
 
