CHENNAI: Sparks flew on the opening day of the budget session of the Tamil Nadu assembly with   MLAs walking out in protest, demanding that chief minister   take moral responsibility for the Tuticorin firing in which 13 persons were killed and resign. Dubbing the permanent closure order of the Sterlite copper unit in Tuticorin an "eyewash" and accusing the government of indulging in a "game of deceit", DMK working president and opposition leader M K   announced that he and his party MLAs would boycott the rest of the session. 

 
 "Until the cabinet meets and takes a policy decision and the government issues a GO on the closure of the Sterlite unit, we will not attend the assembly session," said Stalin, demanding a white paper on the incident. Rebel leader T T V Dhinakaran alleged failure of state intelligence and demanded CBI probe the incident. While DMK legislators wore black clothes,   MLAs sported black badges. 
 
 Trouble began when speaker P Dhanapal declined to allow an adjournment motion as sought by the DMK to debate the May 22 and 23 firing incidents and instead permitted a 'calling attention' motion moved by   MLAs S P Shanmuganathan, Thamimun Ansari and Dhinakaran. After a heated exchange, Dhanapal permitted Stalin to speak. 
 
 "The firing could have been prevented had there been adequate security when protesters took out a rally with their families," the DMK leader said. 
 
 In 2013, the copper smelter unit was shut down but national green tribunal bench sanctioned reopening soon after its committee led by PCB chairman gave a clean chit to the unit. The SC too allowed the unit to operate. "How will the courts consider the government order (issued on Monday for permanent closure)?" Stalin said, expressing doubts about the validity of the order and 'providing loopholes'. 
 
 Stalin said neither the government's statement on the protests nor the CM's reply tabled in the assembly clarified the use of firearms when police opened fire at the protesters. "There is also no mention of the word 'firing' in the CM's reply," Stalin said, hitting out at Palaniswami for his 'self-defence' theory and dubbing the protesters 'anti-socials'. 
 
 The DMK leader took a dig at Palaniswami for his candid admission that he came to know of the firing from TV channels. 
 
 "Why should there be firing for the sake of a corporate entity? What is the state intelligence report on protests?," asked the DMK leader, demanding that police officers be charged with murder. Later, DMK MLAs walked out, raising slogans in the corridors, demanding that the EPS government resign. 
 
 Dhinakaran criticised the government for allowing the protests and simultaneously promulgating an order under section 144 of CrPC. "You say anti-socials intruded. What was the police and its intelligence doing until the 100th day?" he asked. Electricity minister P Thangamani wondered why Dhinkaran was getting angry over the CM blaming 'anti-socials.' Congress legislature party leader K R Ramasamy said the police in civilian clothes had opened fire. "The government has to take responsibility and resign," he said. 
 
 
