NEW DELHI: Counting of votes began today for the bypolls in the Lok Sabha seats of   and   in Uttar Pradesh. Here's all you need to know about what necessitated the bypolls and why they are important:

 
 1) The bypolls had to be held after UP CM Adityanath and deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya vacated their Lok Sabha seats of Gorakhpur and Phulpur, respectively, upon being elected to the state Legislative Council last year after Assembly elections.
 
 2) Voting for the two seats took place on Sunday. While 47 per cent of the voters exercised their franchise in Gorakhpur, the turnout in Phulpur was lower, at 38 per cent.
 
 3) The saffron party fielded Kaushalendra Singh Patel from Phulpur and Upendra Dutt Shukla from Gorakhpur against the Samajwadi Party's ( ) Pravin Nishad and Nagendra Pratap Singh Patel, respectively. The Congress nominated Sureetha Kareem for Gorakhpur and Manish Mishra for the Phulpur Lok Sabha seat.
 
 4) The triangular contest promises to be riveting as the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party ( ) extended support to the SP so as to take on the BJP. 
 
 5) The fate of the SP-BSP experiment could pave the way for the two major players in Uttar Pradesh to tie up in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections to counter the BJP. In the last state elections, as well as in the last Lok Sabha elections, both the SP and the BSP got a drubbing from the BJP.
 
 6) For the BJP, Gorakhpur is significant as it is the bastion of the chief minister, who has represented the seat in the Lok Sabha five times. Prior to Adityanath, the seat was thrice represented in Parliament by his mentor Yogi Avaidyanath.
 
 7) Phulpur, once the bastion of the Congress and represented by India's first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, witnessed a saffron surge in the 2014 Lok Sabha election, when Maurya won the seat.
 
 8) The BJP is rattled though by the SP-BSP alliance, as it's afraid it will eat into Dalit votes, especially in Phulpur. As it is, Phulpur has never really been a BJP bastion.
 
 9) SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said BSP support will help. "Yes, we are getting (BSP) support, and it will help us. The strong image will especially attract Muslims and Dalits. I cannot say much, but this much I am sure, that we will win both the seats," he said.
 
 10) Adityanath lashed out at the SP and the BSP for what he said is an opportunistic alliance. "(It's) just like snake and mongoose unite when a storm comes...People will vote for BJP, keeping in mind PM Modi's policies of development and good governance," he said.
 
 
