AMETHI:   president   on Monday attacked UP chief minister   over the Unnao gang-rape case and said the CM did not stand by the survivor and her family. 

 While addressing a farmers' meeting in Amethi, Rahul took a dig at Yogi saying, " Yogiji Modiji se bhi behtar hain. Unse bhi bahut agey hain. Unnao mein jisne ladki ka rape kia, usse hi bachaya. Ab to main unke bare mein baat hi nahi karna chahta (Yogi is better than Modi. In fact, he is way ahead of the PM. The CM tried to save the accused MLA in the Unnao case. Therefore, I no longer wish to talk about him (Yogi)." 
 
 The Congress chief began his three-day visit of Amethi and   on Monday.
 
 Referring to Unnao and Kathua rape cases in another public meeting at Tiloi, he said, "Hatred is being spread in the country these days. Incidents of violence can be seen all around. Women are being subjected to violence and children are being killed. People from one religion are being pitted against the other. The country is being divided in the name of religion and caste." 
 
 Rahul urged children present in the meeting to stand up against rising hatred. "Whenever you come across anyone you feel is spreading hatred, walk up to them, stare into their eyes and tell them that you are the future of the country and that none one can play with your future," he said. 
 
 Rahul also attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for failing to safeguard the interests of farmers and youth. 
 
 Reminding the farmers of demonetisation, the Congress leader said, "All your savings were taken away in the name of demonetisation and deposited in the banks. Now that money has been taken away by people like Nirav Modi. But the PM is silent which suggests that he has failed to keep his words of acting strongly against corruption." 
 
 Rahul accused the BJP government of creating hindrances in the development of Amethi. "Modiji cancelled the food park project started by the Congress. That one factory would have changed the fate of farmers and jobless youth. Likewise, Hindustan Paper Mill project was also shunted out of the district. The loss is an outcome of vindictive politics being played by Modi government," Rahul said, promising to bring back the two projects when Congress returns to power at the Centre.
 
 
