MUMBAI: The   has commenced a probe into connivance of   with a local businessman to “forcibly” dispossess a developer and grab a 16-acre plot near   check naka. The CBI’s special crime branch on March 14 registered afirst information report. The FIR comes on the heels of the   declining to interfere with the Bombay high court’s order directing the agency to examine whether IPC section 397 (robbery or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) was attracted or not, and also investigate “complicity” of four officers in assisting the family of late Kamruddin Shaikh in ensuring possession comes back to them. The Shaikhs claim they were in possession of the property since 1971.

 "... we do not think that this is a fit case for this court to interfere... at this stage," the SC said in its March 9 order. The HC’s February 14 order was passed on a petition by Romell Housing LLP and its directors Jude and Dominic Romell who alleged “highhandedness” by assistant commissioner of police (Dahisar division) Prashant Marde, Dahisar (E) senior police inspector Subhash Sawant, assistant police inspector Anand Jadhav and sub-inspector Kakasaheb Shinde. Romells claimed to have bought the property for Rs 60 crore from the owners-two private firms—and also paid over Rs 1 crore to Kamruddin Shaikh who was in possession of the property. On April 21, 2017 on an FIR by Shaikh’s grandson Salim, a quarry owner, police detained Jude and charged him with theft, dacoity and trespass. They next day, they removed the porta cabins, razed the barricades and gave possession to the Shaikhs.
 
 The HC had also expressed displeasure with the “clean chit’’ given by the joint commissioner of police (Traffic) in his report directed CBI to probe the case. The HC also directed the magistrate to appoint a receiver on the property until final disposal of the matter. The Shaikhs’ special leave petition in SC said they were victims who were dispossessed and Romells are claiming title on basis of fabricated documents. Their advocate argued that the HC had overstepped its jurisdiction and questioned how it could direct appointment of a court receiver. But the SC judges said the case does not call for interference at this stage.
 
