Udhagamandalam: About 600 small tea growers, including 300 women, under the banner of the Nilgiris Small and Tiny Tea Growers Association, staged a demonstration at Gandhi Maidan near Edakadu Industrial Co-operative (Indco) tea factory on Thursday, demanding minimum benchmark price for green leaf.

 While private tea factories offer Rs 12-14 for a kilogram of green leaf, Indco factories in the Nilgiris offer only Rs 8, the protesters, members of Indco, said. “We want to invite the attention of both the state and the Union governments to the need to fix a floor price for green leaf. We will continue our agitation in the coming weeks in all the 15 Indco factories till we get an answer from the government. Also, due to malpractice in Indco factories, farmers have have been waiting for arrears for over three months” president of the Nilgiris Small and Tiny Tea Growers Association JB Subramaniam said.
 
 L Saraswathi, a small tea farmer said, “We demand at least Rs 30 for a kilogram of green leaf. The government should intervene in the issue and release our arrears for the last three months from Indco factories”
 
 According to the farmers, the current price is not sufficient even to meet the labour cost. “We have been demanding minimum support price for green leaf since more than a decades, but in vain. Now, the slashed price would push us into a deep crisis,” a tea farmer said.
 
 The Indian Institute of Plantation Management (Iipm), Bangalore, had conducted a survey in 2013 about green tea leaf production. A report submitted by Iipm to the government stated that the minimum cost of production of green leaf would be around Rs 17 and 50% of that would be added as social cost for the farmer, which means the minimum support price would fall somewhere between Rs 25 to Rs 27. 
 
 The Nilgiri tea leaves, famous for its strong flavour and deep brown brew, is being cultivated in around one lakh acres on the hill slopes by around 45,000 small farmers apart from corporate estates. There are about 145 bought leaf tea factories and 15 co-operative factories (Indco factories) in the Nilgiris.
 
 Of late, the average green leaf price is being calculated by the Tea Board of India on the basis of a price sharing formula between the factories and the farmers. It is being calculated for various regions of Nilgiris based on weekly average auction price.
 
 
