MARGAO:   chief coach   has warned his side not to celebrate too early as they still have another hurdle to cross before confirming their place in the semifinals of the Indian Super League.
 
  FC Goa demolished defending   5-1 at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Wednesday, and the huge victory follows another flawless showing against FC Pune City in the previous game when they ran out 4-0 victors. FC Goa are now just a point away from a playoff spot and Lobera warned that it wouldn’t be easy. “It will be a difficult game. It won’t be easy. It’s a game where a draw is enough but we are a team which goes out there to win. The team which tries to draw ends up losing.   is a very good team. A team very difficult to play against and we saw that at home as well. Sunday will be a difficult one,” Lobera told reporters after the huge win over ATK on Wednesday.
  
  Many felt FC Goa’s showing against ATK was among the best of the season. Early goals set the pace and the former finalists never really seemed troubled by their rivals who had not lost to them in four years. Lobera, not surprisingly, was pleased with the showing.
  
  “I don’t think perfection exists. There are always things that we can improve but I am very happy with our performance today, with the football that we played, mentality and reading the first part of the game. We were taking on a team which was going through a negative phase and it was important we started well. I am happy with the result, but most important is the match that comes up next,” said the Spanish coach.
  
  ATK interim coach Ashley   has picked up just a point from the seven matches that he has been in charge since the departure of former coach Teddy Sheringham. They were outplayed on Wednesday too but Westwood felt they could have got something if they had capitalised on the early promise.
  
  “We started very well. For the first 10 minutes, we were the best side. There was a definite penalty (which was denied). When decisions go against you, it makes it hard,” said Westwood..
