PATNA: Flight operations at   at Patna remained paralysed due to   on the second consecutive day on Friday as no flight could land here till 4:30 in the evening.

 Airport officials informed that 12 outbound flights from Patna airport were cancelled, while 11 inbound flights were diverted to neighbouring Ranchi, Kolkata and Varanasi airports and a few were rescheduled as well.
 
 The cancelled flights on Friday included five flights of IndiGo, three each of   and   and one flight of GoAir. The worst impact of the fog was observed on the flights operating on   as at least eight of the 12 cancelled flights and six of 11 diverted flights on Friday are scheduled to fly on this route.
 
 Total 27 flights fly on inbound routes to Patna and similar number of flights fly on outbound routes from the city airport under the revised winter schedule, which was made effective on December 1 and continue till February 15.
 
 Officials at the observatory of   (IMD) in the airport premises informed that the visibility was as low as 250meters at around 10am and it went up to 1000m till 4pm and the visibility of 1200 meters was achieved at around 4:30pm, allowing flight operations. As per the viscidity criteria owing to short length of runway at the city airport, flights are allowed to operate only when the minimum visibility is 1200meters.
 
 Deliberating on the practical difficulties in operation of aircraft at Patna airport on foggy winter days, a senior airport official added: “During the winter season, pilots mostly depend on instrument landing system (ILS) for navigating the aircraft. The ILS helps pilots at the time of landing as far as identifying the position of the runway at which the touchdown has to be made is concerned. The ILS at Patna airport is of Category- 1, which is termed as CAT- I ILS. As per standard operating procedure, the “Runway Visual Range”- minimum visibility for operation of aircraft- for CAT- I ILS is 1200 meters. But on foggy days in the winters, the aircrafts are not able to meet such visibility condition in the morning hours and subsequently they are quite often delayed.”
 
 The cancellation and delay of flights also led to commotion inside the terminal building of the city airport as hundreds of passengers waited for their flights. The terminal building looked like a bus- stand as it was seen chock- a- block with passengers standing in serpentine queues for several hours to get boarding passes as well as security clearance.
 
 Sources claimed that around 8 to 10 inbound flights were kept on hold till 4:30pm, which resulted in thronging of over 1000 fliers inside and outside the terminal building, which has capacity to accommodate only 600 passengers. Though the airport authority opened all three frisking counters for screening of fliers but it was still not found sufficient for catering the massive gathering of passengers.
 
 “I waited at the airport for six hours before it was declared that my Kolkata- bound flight was cancelled due to foggy weather. I was mostly standing in the open in the parking lot as the terminal building was chock- a- block with passengers,” said  , resident of Boring Road.
 
