HYDERABAD: After Hyderabad collector Yogita Rana failed to submit an Action Taken Report (ATR) in a case pertaining to a pre-school in  , where a four-and-a-half-year-old boy was allegedly harassed, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights ( ) has now taken cognizance of the complaint and issued a show-cause notice to her. 

 The commission asked her to reply within 10 days' time, from the date of receiving the letter, failing which, summons will be served seeking personal appearance for explaining non-compliance at the   in New Delhi. "An ATR was sought from you in the   case of a four-and-a-half-year-old student of PPI class in Little Elly Pre School, Film Nagar. Reminder letters have already been sent to your office seeking the said ATR. The Commission has not received a response from you in this regard. In the event of non-receipt of ATR, within 10 days of receiving this notice, the Commission would be constrained to initiate requisite action as per the CPCR Act, 2005, and serve a summons seeking personal appearance," reads the show-cause notice.
 
 Sources from the Hyderabad collectorate confirmed the receipt of the notice and added that a meeting was also conducted with all the officials concerned. District education officer, Hyderabad, B  , said that four departments, including education department, were asked to send a report , which has been adhered to. "We were asked to report on whether or not the said school had recognition. We have already sent the report and are now waiting for the collector's order to initiate action," said the DEO.
 
 The officials' claims were dismissed by the boy's mother who alleged that neither the DEO nor the collector had taken any action against the school. "It has been a while since the commission directed them to close down the school, but no action has been initiated against the institution so far," she said. 
 
 NCPCR asked the collector to reply within 10 days' time, from the date of receiving the letter, failing which, summons will be served seeking personal appearance for explaining non-compliance at the Office of the Commission in New Delhi
 
