Ahmedabad: This January, two surveys on education — the Annual Status of Education Report (ASER) by Pratham Foundation and the fifth National Achievement Survey (NAS) by NCERT — warned of a learning crisis among Gujarat children when it comes to maths and science.

 The NCERT-NAS survey of 1.25 lakh children in classes III, V and VIII showed lower learning capabilities. Students of class VIII, for instance, were only able to answer 47% of questions on mathematics, 52% pertaining to science, and 54% pertaining to social science. On the other hand, the ASER survey of 1,124 children between 14 and 18 years of age revealed that only 45.8% could solve a division problem, 47.9% solved a measurement problem, 42% could apply discounts and 46% could calculate time, among other tests. These surveys reflect levels of learning outcomes. Interestingly, none of the surveys offer a narrative as to how such exercises— the NCERT-NAS or ASER— from previous years could help find solutions.
 
 Crucially, none of these national assessments captured a teacher’s ability to teach maths or science, their availability in class or the average instruction time devoted to each class. With these crucial factors missing, such surveys are just a dipstick health check on our education system with the least expected outcomes.
 
 "We need to go beyond the usual knee-jerk bureaucratic response of monitoring, more tests, extra classes, as these have limited results. Our system should allow more teaching time, expose teachers to better teaching methods for maths and science, select better teachers, pay them better and include policies like transparent transfer mechanisms for improving the work environment," says Satyarath Joshi, an educationist.
 
 A lot of time, most government teachers are forced to participate in ‘events’ and undertake ‘abhiyans’ and with the 2019 elections approaching, teachers will be asked to escort children to election rallies. All this takes away a lot of the limited instructional period.
 
 Narendrsinh Gohil, secretary of the Gujarat State Primary Schoolteachers’ Association, says, "Of 220 teaching days in a year, we barely get 180 days to teach. For 40 or 50 days, our teachers are involved in organising programmes, festivals and training," says Gohil.
 
 
