Jaipur: The Jaipur Development Authority ( ) will rehabilitate the affected shop owners of Jhotwara elevated road on the government land situated in Jhotwara industrial area.

 The JDA has identified nearly 576 structures for demolition, including six temples and four schools. As many shop owners are protesting to shift to far-flung areas, a proposal has been drafted to rehabilitate them on government land in industrial area. “As per a recent survey, the JDA will require 52,349 square metre of land near the flyover. Currently, we have only 28,700 square metre of land. As the business of shopkeepers is not affected, we would shift them in nearby area,” said a JDA official.
 
 The proposed elevated road, with a total length of 2.4 km and width of 11.50 metre, is estimated to cost Rs 166 crore.
 
 Sources in the department said, looming elections may put the brakes on massive demolition drive planned by JDA for the construction of Jhotwara elevated road which is proposed between Panchayat Bhawan at Kalwar Road and Ambabari Junction.
 
 “The process to finalise compensation for affected house owners has been stalled for long. After receiving a loan approval from the National Capital and Regional Planning Board (NCRPB), the JDA had resumed the process. But the proposal is under reconsideration again,” sources said.
 
 A proposal seeking permission to demolish these houses has also been forwarded to the state government. However, the state government is sitting over the proposal and it appears that it may take time to approve the project.
 
 “We have sought permission from the state government to initiate the drive. Since a huge number of houses will be demolished, the approval from higher authorities is necessary. We will start the drive only after receiving the approval,” a senior JDA official said.
 
 Earlier, the JDA enforcement wing had issued notices under Section 72 of the JDA Act for encroaching government land to 41 house owners. The house and shop owners were directed to remove their belongings voluntarily. But, no action was taken after the notices were issued.
 
 The JDA has decided to relocate affected house owners to Niwaru Road. “We have identified 25 bighas of land at Niwaru Road near Express flyover. The land belongs to district administration which has approved transfer of the same to JDA,” said a JDA official.
 
 Jaipur development commissioner (JDC) Vaibhav Galeriya had earlier met local MLA Narpat Singh Rajvi to decide on compensation and relocation of affected houseowners to expedite the construction work, sources in the department said.
 
 However, the public representative is apprehensive of dislocating people before the elections next year.
 
 
