BENGALURU: The   government has upheld the punishment meted out to a woman police sub-inspector for not booking a   beedi baron for attempt to murder, after he allegedly assaulted a software engineer and tried to run his   over the techie in Bengaluru over three years ago. 

  A disciplinary committee had, in 2015, put off by a year the annual increment of   police sub-inspector  , after it found that she had not invoked IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder) against Kerala businessman   and booked him only under IPC Sections 279 (rash driving), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation). 
 
 
 
 
 Cubbon Park SI Kathyayini Alvahad booked Kerala businessman Mohammed Nisham only under Sections 279, 323 and 506 though thecomplainant — software engineer and UB City resident Suman Roddam — had alleged Nisham attempted to knock him down with his car.
 
 Kathyayini claimed that the complainant had requested her not to press attempt-to-murder charge, but the same was not mentioned in the station diary or in the complaint. Considering the dropping of the charge as a serious lapse on Kathyayini’s part, the committee penalized her by postponing her annual increment by a year.
 
 On November 11, 2015, the police officer appealed against the punishment to the appellant authority. The authority, too, upheld the punishment, after which she approached the state government on May 12, 2016. Last week, the government dismissed her appeal. Kathyayini is now posted in Upparpet police station.
 
 Mohammed Nisham, who owns Kerala’s King Beedi company, had allegedly threatened and assaulted Suman Roddam and allegedly tried to kill him by knocking him down on December 22, 2014. Though Suman informed Cubbon Park police about the incident the same day, police did not register any case against Nisham at that time as he allegedly managed to influence them, police sources said.
 
 Citing from the complaint, police sources said Nisham lived in Central Bengaluru and drove around his Lamborghini at midnight, disturbing other residents. On one such occasion, Suman took up the matter with him. Nisham then allegedly assaulted the techie and threatened to shoot him in the chest. He tried to run his car over Suman. Nisham allegedly killed a security guard in Thrissur with his Hummer SUV in February 2015.
 
 Suman recognized him from his pictures in the media and filed a written complaint with Cubbon Park police, who booked a case, but allegedly watered down the charges.
 
 Senior police officers noticed that the attempt-to-murder section was missing and included it. Nisham was arrested and brought to Bengaluru; he secured bail within a week. The trial in the case began a few months ago in a city civil and sessions court.
 
 
 
