NAGPUR: Aam Aadmi Party-led New Delhi government recently signed a contract with central government’s Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) for installation of CCTVs. This deal has raised a big question mark on chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ ambitious ‘Safe and Smart City’ project being executed for last one-and-a-half years through a private company — L&T Limited. The cost of each CCTV in the city’s project is 16.66 times the cost in the Delhi contract.

 Fadnavis told TOI there cannot be a comparison between the two projects. “Such contracts are given by high power committee chaired by chief secretary. IT secretary will be able to tell us details about the city’s project,” he said.
 
 BEL has bagged Delhi’s contract for Rs272 crore to install 1.4 lakh CCTVs across the nation’s capital. As per information available from Delhi’s public works department, cost of one CCTV is Rs3,900. “The CCTV will have 4 mega pixels resolution with 64 GB data card, and mandatory night vision, which will help capture images at night,” said one of the officials.
 
 Nagpur’s Safe and   project costing Rs520 crore will install 3,841 CCTVs in various parts of the city. There are various types of cameras according to location, and just like Delhi’s bullet CCTVs, number of fixed box CCTVs in city’s project is 2,930.
 
 As per the contract, cost of one CCTV is Rs65,000 with 2 mega pixels resolution, 32 GB data card, and mandatory night vision.
 
 An official from DIT said there cannot be a big difference between CCTVs being installed in the city and Delhi. “Specifications of CCTVs are very different. City CCTVs have external illumination with range of 50 meters whereas it is 25 meters in Delhi’s contract. Government is laying a hitech network of backbone infrastructure in the city for certainty in connectivity. Therefore, specifications of CCTVs is much better than that of Delhi,” he said.
 
 TOI could not verify the external illumination range of Delhi’s CCTVs.
 
 Former MP and AAP leader   had first raked up the issue in a farmers convention organized by Jai Jawan Jai Kisan a couple of days ago. Sawant compared the cost of Delhi’s contract of Rs272 crore for 1.4 lakh CCTVs with Mumbai’s cost of Rs949 crore for 6,000 CCTVs.
 
 There is a huge difference in components of the projects in city, Mumbai and Delhi. Therefore, TOI has only compared CCTV cost and specifications, and not gone into infrastructure and other related items. Specific cost of CCTVs is given in all three contracts. State had awarded the work at Mumbai also to L&T.
 
 For the city project, state DIT had conducted the tendering process and issued work order, whereas user departments are Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and city police.   had contributed Rs103 crore whereas home department will give Rs173.89 crore on behalf of city police.
 
 
