VADODARA: The opposition Congress, which had so far resorted to token protests on the alleged scam in the   housing scheme, threatened to threatened to go door-to-door to expose the scam.

 The city unit of the Congress on Friday declared a detailed agitation programme it plans to take up if the report regarding the alleged scam is not made public at the earliest. Congress has made calculations regarding the possible expenses in the scheme and the revenue that the realtor could make. It claims that the site will generate a profit of at least Rs 1,650crore.
 
 Congress city unit president Prashant Patel said that if the report is not made public within seven days, the party would demand that the documents regarding the tender, all correspondence regarding the site and the agreement between the partners should be made public. It would also approach heads of various religious sects in the city and seek their blessings to expose the scam.
 
 Patel said that a pamphlet exposing the windfall profit that the realtor would make in the site would be distributed to the public. “We will hit the streets in each ward of the civic body and create awareness. We also plan to raise the issue with the Prime Minister as the scheme has come up under the   (PMAY) launched by him,” Patel said.
 
 Congress had so far submitted only memorandums regarding the issue and staged a protest. Patel said that the delay was because they were gathering details regarding the scheme. “There is a veil of secrecy in the VMC regarding such schemes. Nobody is willing to share documents. Even Right to Information queries are stonewalled or incomplete information is given,” he said.
 
 The Sanjaynagar issue is gaining momentum with Vadgam independent MLA Jignesh Mevani also making scathing remarks over the issue during his visit to the city on Wednesday. Sources in Congress said that the issue was also being discussed with the state leadership. “The state leaders may take it up in the assembly,” said a Congress member. Former opposition leader and former councillor Chinnam Gandhi has also drawn attention of party chief   to the issue.
 
 What had raised eyebrows so far was the silence of the Congress’ elected representatives in the VMC regarding the issue. They had refrained from taking an aggressive posture over the alleged scam.
 
 The VMC had issued two notices to the developer regarding the scheme on December 4. One of these was regarding a change in the stake holding pattern in the joint venture that involved three parties – Narayan Realty, Sai Ruchi and DMC Infra Developers. The stakes were changed after the tender was allotted. The second notice was regarding a storm water drain that the developers wanted the VMC to make. The VMC had initially turned this down, but later brought out a tender raking up a row.
 
 
