BHUBANESWAR: The state government on Monday stopped operations in seven mines that failed to pay penalties by December 31 for overproduction and illegal activities. 

 The   had on August 2 imposed a penalty on 152 iron ore and manganese lessees in the state for illegal mining. These mines were found to have conducted operations without forest and environment clearances, sometimes beyond the permitted area, between 2000 and 2011. 
 
 Deepak  , director of mines, said: "Those not paying the fines were closed in compliance with the   directive. The state government will submit the status report on the fine collection to the central empowered committee ( ) appointed by the apex court in two to three days." The date for next hearing has been fixed on January 17. 
 
 The government had earlier issued demand notices to the leaseholders and warned them of action if they failed to meet the deadline. 
 
 The seven mines that were shut on Monday include PSU Industrial Development Corporation of Odisha Limited's (IDCOL)'s Roida mine with pending dues of Rs 105 crore, Essel's   mining which has a pending fine of Rs 1700 crore, Mesco (Rs 924 crore),   (Rs 748 crore),   (Rs 373 crore),   (Rs 95 crore) and Korps Resources which has been fined Rs 18 crore. 
 
 The total dues of these seven companies come to around Rs 4000 crore.
 
 A government official said it took them a few seconds to stop the operation of the defaulters. 
 
 “The mining operation is controlled by the state government through an IT-based mineral administration, using a software application named Integrated Mines and Mineral Management System or ‘i3MS.’ 
 
 It tracks end-to endmineral transaction, such as issuance of the transit permit and pass, which can be blocked immediately,” the official explained. The state had a target of collecting Rs 17,576 crore as penalty by the end of 2017 but could accrue only Rs 8,223 crore, said steel and mines minister Prafulla Mallick. Only 72 defaulters have been able to meet the deadline, he said. Another government official said there would be no impact on mining revenue (towards mining royalty) because of the closure of some mines.
 
  “The trend in the past some years has been that even if the number of mines decreases, the extraction remains steady in the functional ones. More mining activity is undertaken in them to make up for the closed ones. 
 
 There would be no decrease in the expected 100 million tonne iron ore production this financial year,” the official said. The state had 54 functional iron ore and manganese mines. After the latest closure of the seven mines, 47 remain functional. While 41 of them had cleared the fines imposed on them, six of them had no pending dues.
 
 
