SURAT: The clash between two gangs that sparked off a communal violence in Kosad on Friday has exposed the apathy of police to curb ongoing illegal activities in  . The gangs had clashed to gain control over bootlegging and other illegal businesses in the area.

 Police sub-inspector K D Raval was thrashed by a group of drunk men under the limits of Amroli police station on March 22 when he had asked them not to use foul language.
 
 The rioting was started by history-sheeter Lalu Jalim alias Amit Rajput and his associates. Rajput was earlier working for a history-sheeter from Amroli Jacob Rabari. After Rabari’s death, Rajput stared operating his own gang and began extorting money from anti-social elements in Kosad EWS Colony. 
 
 Crime branch sleuths arrested Rajput and his associate Mamu Machhi on Saturday. They are being questioned by the police about the rioting. 
 
 Police investigations revealed that Rajput’s men attacked gangster Hasim and his associates in Kosad in the early hours of Friday after which both gang members resorted to stone-pelting. Some stones fell on a religious structure of a particular community and this led to communal clash in the area. On March 27, Hasim and his gang members had torched the fish shop of Radheshyam Machhi, who later approached Rajput for help. Hasim and Rajput had developed differences over extorting money from   operating in the area. 
 
 Rajput was in jail since May 2017 after his arrest in a murder case. Rajput became known as a gangster in the area after the murder. He also attacked a crime branch team in May 2017. 
 
 He came out on temporary bail from   a week ago and had fired from an airgun during a   procession in Limbayat area. He was arrested for the offence but got released on bail.
 
 “Actually it was a fight between the two gangs. In both the gangs, men from different communities are active. It was initially not a communal clash, but later some people from both the communities got involved in the violence. However, police brought the situation under control immediately. We have made several arrests and also detained some suspects who had started the clash,” city police commissioner Satish Sharma said. 
 
 Police have so far arrested 84 accused in the case. They were produced in court which sent them to judicial custody. 
 
 
