CHENNAI: An accident survivor, asked by court to obtain 'disability certificate' from a government hospital for claiming compensation, was made to stay in an emergency ward of a GH for more than a month, sleeping on the floor amid seriously ill patients screaming out in pain. 

 C Jagadeesan, an autodriver, who not only lost a month's earning but was also horrified by the experience at the hospital, has now approached the Madras high court to stop such practices. 
 
 He wants the court to ensure that medical boards offer a separate ward for accident survivors so that they are assessed for disability, with dignity.
 
 A resident of Perungudi, Jagadeesan met with an accident on August 5, 2014 near T Nagar. 
 
 He suffered serious injuries on spinal card, eyes and face. But he discontinued medical treatment within a few days of the accident as he could not afford it.
 
 Later, on October 19, 2014 he suffered serious pain in neck and was admitted to a hospital incurring 1.75lakh as treatment cost. He also filed an application with the motor accident claims tribunal for compensation. 
 
 On November 28, 2017 he was referred to the medical board in   (RGGGH) for assessing disability. To his shock, the board told him that he had to be admitted and stay in the 'Neuro' ward of the hospital for at least a month, which was almost 20 days more than the time needed to treat his injuries.
 
 Jagadeesan got admitted on January 8, 2018. Right from day one he was made to sleep on the floor over-crowded patients.
 
 This apart, he suffered cold and fever since he was made to sleep on the floor, in the air conditioned ward. 
 
 "Though I was there for a month, the doctors were always busy in attending other patients who were admitted for emergency treatment," Jagadeesan said.
 
 Haunted by the horrifying experience in order to get a disability certificate, Jagadeesan approached the high court.
 
 When the plea came up for hearing before Justice   on Monday, representing the petitioner advocate V S Suresh explained the suffering undergone by Jagadeesan.
 
 Appalled over the submission, the judge directed the government advocate to get instructions from the authorities concerned in two weeks.
 
 
