JAIPUR: The state government is hoping that it would get another chance this year to start the operations of seven   after addressing all the shortcomings pointed out by the   (MCI).

 During the executive committee meeting held on December 14, the MCI had recommended against giving approval to these medical colleges as they didn’t have adequate facilities and failed to fulfill the eligibility criteria.
 
 Since the   government came to power in the state, the state government had identified seven district hospitals to be converted to medical colleges and started taking measures for the same. But every year, the MCI had denied them permission pointing out various flaws.
 
 The state government is hoping that its fortunes would change this year by improving the facilities addressing the issues pointed out by the MCI.
 
 “It’s not over. The MCI has pointed out some shortcomings. Now the Centre will direct the principals of these medical colleges to comply with the rules laid down by the MCI. They have to ensure that all norms of the MCI for medical colleges are met,” said  , principal secretary, medical education department.
 
 “The MCI team will visit the medical colleges again to inspect the compliance of its directions,” Kumar said.
 
 The seven proposed medical colleges are necessary for the state as per the Mudaliar committee recommendations. If the proposed medical colleges become operational from 2018-19, Rajasthan will come close to becoming a state with a government medical college for every 50 lakh population as recommended by the committee.
 
 The state government had identified seven 300-bed district hospitals in Barmer, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Dungarpur, Pali, Churu and Sikar for the purpose of converting them into medical colleges by developing required facilities.
 
 Despite all consistent efforts, including the construction of new buildings, recruitment of teaching faculties and developing other facilities such as laboratories and operating theatres, they have still not met the required criteria. The MCI has pointed out deficit in faculty, beds and nursing staff along with a host of other issues.
 
 
