Nagpur: Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday exhorted students to make their role model to former president APJ Abdul Kalam, who is well respected across all sections of societies in India. He was speaking at the 105th convocation ceremony of Nagpur University (NU) at Vasantrao Deshpande Hall here on Saturday.

 Purohit, also the former Nagpur MP, also advised students to imbibe qualities of humbleness and dedication shown by the late president throughout his life. “Even after being at the country’s top post, he had just one suitcase which he carried till the end of his life. He was also very polite to everyone around him. That was the reason that over 90% of Indians, cutting across caste, creed and religion, cried when Kalam died,” he said. 
 
 Giving a call to end corruption, Purohit said the former president had dreamt to end this menace. “The young generation should take a pledge in this regard and promote honesty,” he said.
 
 Purohit, a chancellor of over 20 universities in Tamil Nadu, asked students to develop reading habits and live a simple life. Quoting Mahatma Gandhi’s words, he said, “God gives everything to the one in need, not to the one in greed.”
 
 NU VC S P Kane, pro-VC Pramod Yeole, registrar Puran Meshram, deans of NU’s four faculties and management council members shared the dais on the occasion.
 
 The dignitaries felicitated 172 meritorious students of various disciplines with gold, silver and other prizes. Over 48,000 degrees were conferred upon at the ceremony, including 152 PhDs. All graduates could see their degree certificate online on NAD website by registering through their respective Aadhaar numbers. 
 
 In his address, the VC explained about various initiatives taken by the university and achievements by its students, especially at intercollegiate national level competitions, Nvonmesh, in Bhopal and Indradhanush in Parbhani. The National Social Service (NSS) volunteers from NU participated in the Republic Day Parade and in exchange programme of international cultural festival organized by Japan. “Many research projects are underway in NU’s various departments like physics, chemistry, geology and zoology along with Laxminarayan Institute of Technology (LIT). Under RUSA, NU is building ‘RUSA Centre for Bio-active and Natural Product’.”
 
 Kane while speaking on the digitalization project, said, “A majority of examination work in NU have already been made digital, enabling us to announce results within 30-45 days of an examination.”
 
 (With inputs from Tejas Mundhada)
 
 
