Singer   stepped down as the judge of the music reality show, The   2 after a complaint was filed against him for allegedly kissing a minor girl contestant in a video that went viral. Calling himself an “extremely affectionate and expressive” person, Papon claimed that “both of our families are being destroyed forever” due to the controversy that erupted with the video. An uncomfortable silence prevails in the music world. While most celeb judges feel that the issue was blown out of proportion, they also believe that there is certain decorum followed between a mentor and student, which should not be crossed, ever! Read on:

  
 
 
 
  As a reality show judge, we are put in a position of great responsibility. It's a role that cannot be taken lightly. While it is human nature to feel affection towards little children who enthrall us with their talent, we need to be measured when it comes to our interaction with them as they see us as teachers and hold us in high regard. At the end of the day, we have been put in those seats in a professional capacity, as mentors and experts. No matter what, we need to draw the line clearly. We have to remind ourselves constantly, about our responsibility towards the channel, contestants and the viewers, who have put their faith in us.
 
  
 
  I really cannot comment on Papon’s incident as I don’t have all the facts. I don’t know the context in which it happened, and whether it was intentional or accident. Considering both the parent and the child have cleared the air, saying that they never saw sexual overtones in the gesture, it’s important to not blow the incident out of proportion. Having said that, a decorum should be maintained in a teacher-student relationship or in any working relationship. I would even go a step further to say that we must be extra careful with teenagers as they're exploring their adolescence, so as teachers, it's our responsibility to keep distance and not give mixed signals through actions, words or gestures. I hope this incident makes people aware of code of conduct that needs to be followed. It shouldn't go to either extremes - where we either become too cautious and emotionally void or turn a Nelson's eye to the gravity of how a gesture can damage the child’s world. Let’s stay objective!"
 
  
 
 
  Papon has two children and whatever happened could be accidental. It was also fine till the time he apologized for his actions in a statement after the incident happened. But what was not acceptable is how his legal team said that the whole issue was blown out of proportion and that a peck on the lips is just a sign of affection between the guru and shishya. The yarn that is being spun is disgusting. Are they trying to justify and say that it is okay for male teachers to kiss our 12-year-old daughters on the lips? You can’t hug a child or kiss a contestant just out of affection. I will never like any teacher to kiss my children. I have been a judge on shows too, but I've never kissed or hugged a teenage contestant. You can never cross the line of code of conduct.
 
  
 
  I have not seen the video, but I also have a daughter and so does Papon. He has already admitted it was accidental and a mistake. Besides, the concerned contestant is also not raising an issue about it. Having said that, I do feel that there should be a certain decorum between the mentor/judge and the contestant. I would not like my daughter to be hugged or kissed by any mentor or judge. 
 
  
 
 
  I haven't seen the video, so I can't comment on what Papon did. But I would never hug or kiss any contestant. It's their private space. I don't cross the line with them, not even backstage. When I want to express my affection towards any contestant, it will be in the form of bowing down or namaste to bow down to the God in her or him. 
 
  
 
 
  This case has been blown out of proportion. I would not hesitate to show affection towards any sincere artist, who works hard and is talented. He or she can be elder to me or younger, but, a decorum needs to be maintained. I am from Dehradun, a city of top class schooling, where teachers and students are known to share a beautiful relationship of love and respect. Decorum is important when two human beings are interacting.
 
  
  
 
