UDHAGAMANDALAM: Two days after the introduction of Nilgiris Mountain Railway’s (NMR) summer special service ‘Heritage Steam Voyage’ tourists and social activists are already finding the ticket prices too high.

 While the tickets are priced Rs 1,100 and Rs 800 for the first class and second class respectively between Mettupalayam and Coonoor for a distance of 38km, it is just Rs 185 and Rs 25 for the regular service.
 
 The special train service is run only on Saturdays and Sundays. It will be operated till June 24. The special train (with no unreserved coach) pulled by oil-fired loco, has been attached with three coaches with a total seating capacity of 132, including 32 first class seating.
 
 “Tourists are complaining that the tickets are exorbitantly priced, though a welcome kit and souvenirs are provided. A four-member middle-class family cannot afford to take the journey even in second class,” member of All India Congress Committee JB Subramaniam said. “The matter will be taken up with the   soon in the interest of tourists,” he told TOI.
 
 L Kumaresan, a tourist from Chennai said, “No doubt that the special train journey on the NMR is an experience but for the tariff. I don’t think a family of four or five can take the special summer train given the high pricing of tickets.”
 
 The railway should revise the ticket fare so as to enable the common man enjoy the journey, M Muralidhar, another tourist, said.
 
 Meanwhile, divisional railway manager of   division   said, “The initiative is acceding to the demands of the tourists and heritage enthusiasts of the NMR. Nothing was arbitrary while fixing the ticket fare. It was all with a calculation with finance concurrence and approved by the general manager.”
 
 Stating that the special train is nothing but ‘Palace on Wheels on NMR’, he said, “The service with new upgraded coaches is purely meant for tourists with improved personalised services, while the normal services are run with the old coaches.”
 
 According to Verma, the Southern Railway has made elaborate arrangements to make the travel a memory of a lifetime with value-added services such as on-board refreshments like Nilgiri tea, samosa, tetra pack juice and water bottle, besides a few mementoes such as a bottle of eucalyptus oil, Nilgiri tea from TANTEA, a handout on the heritage of NMR, a keychain, a paper bag printed with railway logo to carry the mementoes, all costing around Rs 200.
 
 “While the special services saw about 90% booking last Saturday and Sunday on the uphill trip, the downhill trip was about 50%. If the demand continues, we will continue the special services throughout the year,” he added.
 
 
