AHMEDABAD: The forensic science experts, generally associated with analysis of evidence on crime scenes have been roped in by Gujarat   ( ) Ltd to assure quality control of the food grains meant for purposes such as midday meal scheme and public distribution system. 

 As part of an MoU signed between Directorate of Forensic Sciences (DFS) and GSCSC in December, DFS has set up a Food Research Laboratory (FRL) at its premises in   at the cost of Rs 1.02 crore. 
  
  
  With the move,   has become the first state in India to rope in forensic science expertise for the purpose.
 
 Manish Bharadwaj, managing director,  , said that there were major complaints of quality control in the procurement and distribution. “In the trial run itself, we found issues in dal and cotton-seed oil. The government decided to adopt extensive measures for scientific quality checks as issues were found even in NAFED-approved samples.”
 
 Bharadwaj added, “The move of setting up the FRL will help the state government maintain quality of food grains and other goods distributed through government initiatives.”
 
 The MoU is for a 10-year period under which Directorate of Forensic Sciences will provide the space and experts, whereasGujarat State Civil Supplies Corporation will incur recurring cost of Rs 65 lakh — the amount that used to go to private laboratories for quality check.
 
 H P Sanghvi, deputy director, Directorate of Forensic Sciences , said that testing of samples had started in October 2017. 
 
 “The new lab has specialized equipment and trained manpower. We have set up both dry and wet laboratories to check quality of samples of commodities such as wheat, rice, maize, sugar, edible oil, salt and pulses against standards set by Gujarat State Civil Supplies Corporation and FSSAI. 
 
 The FRL experts will collect samples from across the state,” he said.
 
 Gujarat State Civil Supplies Corporation officials said that there has been a marked improvement in the samples sent due to stringent scrutiny and high rejection rate by FRL.
 
 “It is a new field for us but we are equipped with resources for the task. The results so far are encouraging with stringent norms in place and standardized procedures for collection of samples and analysis,” said Sanghvi.
 
 
 
 
 GSCSC provides commodities for schemes such as National Food Security Act, public distribution system, mid-day meal scheme, Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS), etc. Gujarat has over 17,209 fair price shops, 72.03 lakh ration card holders including 27.44 lakh BPL, and about 1.03 crore combined beneficiaries in midday meal schemes in schools and anganwadi.
 
 
