A series of seemingly disparate coincidences have marked my life. Now when I think about them, I sense an undercurrent, a binding thread that joins them together. Were these coincidences just a series of happenstance? I don’t think so,” says the  , architect and educator,  

 Born in Pune, in 1927, into an Hindu joint family involved in the furniture industry, Doshi reminisces in his recent book ‘Paths Unchartered’ about how after high school he joined a painting class at an institute of Modern Art, run by Venkatesh Patil. Two years later, Doshi joined the   where his senior Hari Kanhere invited him midway through his course to London, where he joined the   (RIBA). This was the turning point in Doshi’s life.
 
 One day Doshi learnt that the CIAM Congress was to be held at Hoddesdon in 1950. “A Colombian architect, Germán Samper, who worked with   realised that I was the only Indian at CIAM and asked me what Chandigarh meant. I promptly responded that ‘Chandigarh’ meant Goddess Chandi’s house”.
 
 Doshi worked with Corbusier between 1951 and 1954 — during which his work consisted of the Shodhan and Sarabhai houses, Sanskar Kendra and the Mill Owners building — and returned to Ahmedabad to supervise his projects. He established his studio, Vastu-Shilpa, in 1955, and also worked closely with renowned American architect Louis Kahn, who designed the IIM Ahmedabad campus.
 
 In his book, Doshi says how he got he got his first job in Ahmedabad. “I spoke to Kasturbhai Lalbhai about starting my practice in Ahmedabad. He asked me how much money I need per month? I said ‘perhaps Rs 500. He then said ‘If I provide you with enough work to earn, would you stay. ‘Yes’ I said,” says Doshi in his book.
 
 In 1996, his dream project, the Husain-Doshi Gufa (which he conceptualised with noted painter M F Husain), was vandalised by Bajrang Dal activists who forced their way in and destroyed about 23 tapestry items and 28 Husain paintings. The gallery reopened in 2006 and was renamed ‘Amdavad ni Gufa’.
 
