KOLKATA: The alumni association of Presidency University on Sunday met mentor group chairman Sugata Bose, armed with a list of some of their perceived grievances over some steps the university authorities had taken, citing development, over the past few years.

 
 For some years now, the association has felt peeved with some of the decisions taken by the authorities. A source said the group had even tried to discuss the issues, but the meetings ended in stalemates every time. On Sunday, the members urged Bose to mention these grievances in a report he’s drawing up for submission to the government.
 
 The association submitted a document containing names of famous academics who chose to join Presidency to turn it around, but who, according to them, were “forced” to resign after a while because of the “humiliation” meted out to them by those in charge of the administration. This dealt a heavy blow to the academic excellence of the university and the result can be seen in the number of vacancies in several departments, with students choosing to study elsewhere, and the number of vacant teaching positions, the document submitted to Bose claimed.
 
 The examples of past director of TIFR, Sabyasachi Bhattacharya, who resigned as the JC Bose chair professor,  , who resigned as head of the economics department to go back to JU, Maidul Islam, who resigned from the political science department to join the Centre for Social Sciences and  , who resigned as the head of physics and dean of science, were enumerated in the document that listed 13 resignations. “An academic audit should be done and confidential exit notes sought to verify the real reasons. Teachers’ confidences are shaken and the current teachers are mute with fear,” said  , association secretary. Humiliation of former and present teachers, “which have become an everyday issue”, according to a source, were listed for Bose to investigate.
 
 The alumni also criticised the administration’s decision to “rampantly destroy” on-campus heritage. “From destroying the professors’ common room in the name of modernization to mutilating the portico, uprooting centuryold trees at the entrance to pulling out the heritage iron gate and transferring it to the rear of the college, there’s a lot of damage on campus. Bose has assured us he will try his best to restore the portico to its old look and bring back the iron gate to its former position,” Chowdhury said. The alumni also expressed displeasure about the “high-handed manner” in which the students’ canteen, which used to be run by  ,was replaced with another vendor.
 
 The association complained that heritage instruments, furniture and chests, which could have been part of the university’s museum, had been destroyed and disposed of “in a hurry”.
 
