LUCKNOW: The high-end,   may be the most coveted   in town, but it seems to be most undesired one when it comes to choice of posting for police officials.

 In less than a year, six police officials voluntarily chose to quit as Gomtinagar station house officer, most of them parting happily and only two officers staying in the office for more than 30 days. On Monday, inspector PK Jha took over charge as SHO Gomtinagar. Transferred from crime branch to a field posting, Jha is the seventh officer to be given the responsibility to handle the security of the VIP neighbourhood since April 15, 2017. However, Jha’s immediate neighbour, SHO of Vibhuti Khand police station, SK Rai completes his eight months in office on Tuesday. While different personal reasons have been cited by policemen who chose to relinquish the charge of SHO Gomtinagar, the underlying factor is the pressure exerted by VIPs. 
 
 Leave aside senior politicians, well-heeled businessmen and influential contractors, at least onefourth of the 515 IAS and 400 IPS officials have houses in Gomtinagar. Now add retired bureaucrats, judicial officials, other officials, advocates and journalists and it would not take a lot to gauge the kind of pressure we deal with. As they say, everybody in Gomtinagar is connected to somebody in power,” said a police officer who cited family problems within three weeks of his posting last year.
 
 On April 15, 2017, then SHO Manoj   relinquished the charge after advocate Nutan Thakur, wife of IPS officer Amitabh Thakur, refused to budge from police station premises. The Thakur couple wanted to lodge an FIR against a sub-inspector who had framed them in fabricated rape case in the past.
 
 SSP Deepak Kumar said that inspector Jha would serve for a reasonable period. “Previous SHO Anand Shukla did not want posting in Gomtinagar and has been shifted to Jankipuram. However, Jha has given commitment to stick around and I have directed him to strengthen connect with public,” said Kumar.
 
 Among other challenges, Jha also needs to bring down pendency of unsolved criminal cases in Gomtinagar as the volume of FIRs there is quite big.
 
 While close to 1,050 FIRs were lodged last year at Hazratganj police station, about 1,600 cases were registered at Gomtinagar in the same period. Ghazipur police station, which covers Indiranagar, is not far behind as three different officers have held the SHO charge in the past one year.
 
