Thiruvananthapuram: The City Police have recorded the arrest of one more person in connection with the attempt to murder of   Vanchiyoor Area Committee member L S Saju, 49, at Edavacode near Sreekaryam. The police identified the accused as Vishnu alias Unnikuttan, 24, of Rema Bhavan, Sreekrishnapuram near Keraladityapuram. The accused is an active worker of   and the Sreekaryam Upanagar Vidhyarthi Pramukh of the organization, the police said. 

 The police said that Vishnu was nabbed from a house near Government Law College near Kunnukuzhy, where he was hiding. His arrest was recorded by Medical College station house officer C Binukumar.
 
 Besides actively participating in the crime, he is also accused of hatching the plan to attack Saju with a view to kill him. He is arraigned as the second accused in the case. He is involved in a past case related to vandalism of CPM flags at Vattavila under Sreekaryam police station limits. The police have also confiscated his two-wheeler and his mobile phone. He was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody. 
 
 The police had earlier arrested three others, Sumesh, Jayashankar and Vignesh, in connection with the case. They are all under judicial custody at present. Now, three more persons, who had allegedly taken part in the attack remains to be caught, the police said. 
 
 L S Saju, an active CPM worker residing at Edavacode near Sreekryam was attacked by the armed assailants on the night of December 28. Saju was standing outside his residence and speaking to his friends, when he was attacked by the assailants, who came on motorcycles. 
 
 The accused, who were caught, have told the police that they targeted him as a retaliation to the murder of RSS Basti Karyavahak Rajesh at Edavacode in July last year. Even though Saju is not in accused in that case, the RSS workers in the locality believed that he too was a part of the conspiracy to kill Rajesh. Besides this, Saju was also instrumental in organising the CPM Vanchiyoor Area Committee’s annual conference at Edavacode a month ago. 
 
 Saju, who was seriously injured in the attack, is still under treatment at Medical College Hospital. 
 
 
