HYDERABAD: Two boys drowned in an abandoned granite quarry beside   in Nizampet on Sunday morning. Around 10am, 14-year-old D David Raju, a Class 7 student of Geetanjali Public School, and nine-year-old S Chanti, a Class 2student of Model School, both residents of  , drowned while swimming in the nearly 20-feet deep abandoned quarry. The children did not know swimming, Bachupally police said.

 
 “The boys went to the quarry for swimming along with their friends as it was their vacation. There is a slope in the quarry, where the boys slipped and fell. The other children raised an alarm,” Bachupally inspector Balakrishna   said.
 
 Police rushed to the site and fished out the bodies. Later, they were shifted to   for autopsy. A case was registered under Section 174 (suspicious death) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), police added.
 
 Incidentally, this was the third drowning case in the city in the past few weeks. Bachupally police claim, in their jurisdiction, an average of three drowning cases get reported, mostly during summer months. “Drowning cases are reported only during summer. This is the only open quarry in our police station limits. This is the first case of drowning this year,” the inspector added.
 
 He said abandoned quarries should be fenced or at least a caution board should be put up so that such accidents do not happen. “Revenue officials should fence such quarries and put up a caution board with details of depth of the water body,” police said.
 
 Police had last year shot a letter to mandal revenue officer expressing concern over the quarry, however, no action was taken by the department. “Mostly, children go to such open quarries during summer for swimming. Such incidents take place when parents leave their children alone and minors go for swimming without adult’s supervision,” Reddy added.
 
 Police also advised parents to keep a watch on their children and ensure they go swimming only under the supervision of an adult to avoid such mishaps.
 
