Do you know those blind spots, the places that you can’t see in your rear view mirrors when you’re driving? We have blind spots when it comes to the lifestyle disorders like  . In fact, there are certain blind spots that are very common for diabetic patients who overeat. The stuff that operates in these blind spots – outside of your awareness – can easily determine whether you succeed or fail with your efforts to break free from overeating and  . 

 If you take   or oral diabetes medications, chances are you've experienced at least one low   episode. You initiate with a wobble, tremble, sweat and feel very lightheaded in an hypoglycemic episode. But for many, the most challenging symptom of a hypoglycemic episode can essentially be the uncontrollable urge to eat. In any situation you only need 10 to 20 grams of carbohydrate to treat most low blood sugars; your brain is begging you to eat more, because digesting those carbohydrates can take at least 10 to 15 minutes before they finally reach your bloodstream. The consequence is that you can easily find yourself overindulging in eating with every hypoglycemic episode. That not only leads to a rebound high blood sugar, but also the consumption of sometimes hundreds of unneeded extra calories every week.
 
 Mostly diabetic people have a craving for carbohydrate rich food stuff when blood sugar is low. If you are looking for carbohydrates rich food stuff for your low sugar, you're factually opening the door and inviting overindulgence in eating. Instead of directly going to the kitchen to eat food, choose a drawer in your kitchen, bedroom, office and car; and a handy compartment if you carry a purse, where you'll store a specific type of carbohydrate. That way you're not going to the place where all the food is kept; instead you're just going to the location where the "treatment for low blood sugar" is kept! Yes, this is a bit difficult but it's essential if you want to avoid consuming those hundreds of extra calories. It just takes 10 to 15 minutes for the reversal of symptoms of hypoglycemia and for your brain to stop begging you to eat more food. Treat your blood sugar with 10 to 20 grams of carbohydrates and find ways to distract yourself - listen to music, call a friend, chat for 10 minutes, lie down and repeat a positive mantra in your head … Do anything that keeps you from eating more food before you've given those 10 to 20 grams of carbohydrates enough time to do their job.
 
 
 
 
