KANNUR: Bomb menace is making a comeback, especially in the hilly terrains of the district, it seems. In the past few days, police have recovered high intensity live bombs from different parts of   and Mattannur. Though police said the bombs and weapons were recovered during routine raids, recurring incidents are a matter of concern, especially in the tense situation in the backdrop of the recent double murder at Mahe and New Mahe. 

 
 It was on Friday that the police, with the help of dog squad, conducted raids in Keezhur, in the suburbs of Iritty, and recovered bombs, weapons and materials required for making bombs, including steel containers and charcoal, which indicates that bomb making is an ongoing process, especially in the strongholds of the   and the   of the district.
 
 The explosives were kept in a secluded place near the anganwadi at   but the police suspect these were made elsewhere and brought here to conceal them as police raids were going on.
 
 "We have been continuing raids in the sensitive areas of Iritty, Mattannur and   as part of a routine exercise. In the past few days, there were a few instances of recovering the explosives," said Iritty DSP Prajeesh Thottathil.
 
 Eleven high-intensity live bombs, made using ice-cream bowls, were recovered during a raid in Muzhakkunnu and surrounding areas hours before the double murder on May 7. Also, a couple of days prior to that a few bombs were recovered from the same locality.
 
 Bomb making has become easier here because of the availability of the explosive materials that are brought for the quarries, which are mostly illegal. However, nowadays even crackers are used to make bombs, according to police. Added to this is the concern about weapons concealed here and there.
 
 Though the police register cases and defuse bombs, nobody is arrested and the investigation reaches nowhere, which again gives confidence to the bomb-making squads of political parties. 
 
 Police said the search operations would be strengthened in the wake of the recent murders, but it remains to be seen whether it will help control the menace. 
 
 
