SHIMLA: With a view to create awareness about protection, conservation and cleanliness of the UNESCO World Heritage site, “Walk the Track” would be organized along Kalka-Shimla railway track on May 12. Around 5,000 people from all walks of life, especially students, will participate in the cleanliness drive. 

 An initiative of the HP State Legal Services Authority, under the guidance of acting Chief Justice of the   high court Justice  , the drive would not only see cleaning, forestation and beautification of the heritage   railway track in a big way but would also be useful in sensitising people about protection of environment and ecology in general.
 
 A meeting between officers of HP State Legal Services Authority and various stakeholders was held recently to oversee the preparations for the launch of awareness drive for protection, conservation and cleanliness of the track which was chaired by executive chairman of the authority  , in the presence of Justice  .
 
 The meeting was attended by advocate general, assistant solicitor general of India, various heads of departments and officers of the state government, officers from the Army, Railways and Bar Council of Himachal Pradesh, besides others.
 
 Justice Karol emphasised on preservation Kalka-Shimla railway track and called for mass coordinated movement of all agencies in this regard. He said that environment protection was a social responsibility of one and all and cohesive efforts were required to be made to achieve success. He said that children needed to be associated in such drives in a big way to create awareness in the society as they were the real ambassadors.
 
 The Kalka-Shimla railway track has been divided into 43 segments of around 2 km each for conducting the walk along the track out of which 32 segments covering a length of 67 km fall in Solan district and 11 segments covering a length of 23 km in Shimla district. 
 
 Accordingly, 43 groups of students and other participants have been formed who will collect litter and waste as they walk along the track in their specified area. The group in charge has been nominated for all the groups for smooth and safe conduct of the cleanliness drive.
 
 Besides students, panchayati raj institutions representatives, NGOs, Mahila Mandals, Yuvak Mandals, clubs, MCs, lawyers, forest workers, medical staff, police and civil defence, transport unions have also been involved for the cleanliness campaign.
 
 
