GANDHINAGAR:  , a Congress leader who is a Rajya Sabha member from Gujarat, sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday raising questions about the   process for the  . Patel has alleged that compensation norms enshrined in the land acquisition Act of 2013 — which was cleared by the Congress-led UPA regime — are being violated. 

 “I wish to draw your attention to the land acquisition process by the National High Speed Rail Corporation (NHSRC) for the upcoming Mumbai-Ahmedabad   project,” Patel says in his letter to Modi. “I am given to understand that the  , along with district officials, are in the process of acquiring agricultural land from several farmers across various districts in Southern Gujarat.” Patel writes that farmers’ representatives have complained that the rules and procedures stipulated by the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, are not being adhered to.
 
 “First, the public consultation process as mandated under the Act must be carried out with sufficient notice and adequate publicity,” Patel writes. “However, farmer groups have raised objections that such meetings are being conducted at a day’s notice without appropriate publicity. This defeats the very purpose of the consultation process, the objective of which is to educate the farmers about the impact of the project and their rights available under the Act.”
 
 Patel further writes: “Second, it is extremely unfortunate that the Gujarat government is conducting the entire exercise under a diluted version of the 2013 Land Act, which in effect runs contrary to the law passed by Parliament.” Patel goes on to note: “Under the Gujarat government’s regulations, the need for mandatory consent of farmers and social impact assessment have been done away with. The essence of the farmer’s right to his or her land under the 2013 legislation rests on the two pillars of consent and impact assessment.” He says that by doing away with these processes, “the entire land acquisition process may descend to mere tokenism.”
 
 
