DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand Commission for Protection of Child Rights has written to police officials and   to look into serious allegations of ragging levelled by a few students of a premier girls’ boarding school located in Mussoorie. The students have alleged they were   by their seniors during ragging. The commission has asked the concerned departments to investigate the matter and submit a report within 15 days.
 
 
  The matter pertains to May 6 when four girls who were new entrants to the school, ran away from the school alleging exploitation by other students. In their complaint to their guardians, they alleged there were “no doors in the bathing area of the school -- only curtains -- and they were molested and raped during ragging.”
  
  The local guardian of one of the girls thereafter approached the commission with his complaint in which he said that “due to the trauma afflicted on them, one of the girls was even contemplating suicide and had also written a suicide letter.”
  
  “The girl has written in her diary the ordeal she faced at the school. We have the diary and recordings of the conversations that we had with the school authorities regarding the matter which we will give to the investigating officials in case they require it. All the girls have been sent back home without any suspension letter. Parents and children cannot be left hanging like this and immediate action is warranted in the matter,” the complainant said.
  
  Speaking about the matter,  , undersecretary, Uttarakhand Commission for Protection of Child Rights, said that it was “important to highlight the matter since the school in question is a highly reputed one where many children from NRI families study.” “It is essential that a committee is constituted by the concerned departments to thoroughly investigate the case since the allegations are extremely serious in nature,” she said.
  
  Attempts by TOI to contact school officials for their version proved futile as the principal was travelling and no other official was willing to answer queries.
