CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party ( ) on Thursday sought special status for Punjab. The party demanded that Punjab be put on the list of special category states ( ), while pushing for a revision in the terms of reference of the Fifteenth Finance Commission.

 AAP’s Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu told mediapersons on Thursday that he had written two separate letters recently to   Arun Jaitley in this regard. Sandhu has also written to the chief minister Amarinder Singh demanding that he calls an all-party meeting on these issues.
 
 “Punjab has a much stronger case than even states like Andhra Pradesh, which are seeking special status. While special status will help meet the political aspirations of its people through legitimate legislative means, its inclusion in SCS will help it come out of the economic and financial mess,” he said.
 
 “Unfortunately, its case was never pursued vigorously since its bifurcation in 1966. Similarly, if terms of reference of the finance commission are not revised, Punjab would be hit even harder in terms of devolution of funds from the Centre than states like Karnataka and Kerala, which are making a similar demand,” he added.
 
 In his letter to Jaitley, the AAP leader argued that Punjab had not been included in the list despite it fulfilling three of the five parameters, namely, strategic location along the borders of the country, economic and infrastructure backwardness, and non-viable nature of state finances. Besides, he mentioned how on one hand the onus of producing the country's foodgrains fell on Punjab, on the other, it was made to gift its river waters to non-riparian states in “national interest”, forcing it to draw huge quantities of underground water to fulfill the national obligation.
 
 In his other letter, dated April 17, the Kharar MLA sought revision of the terms of reference of the finance commission on two counts. He stated that for devolution of funds from the Centre, in addition to the clause of “equity, efficiency and transparency”, the terms of reference should also take into account, the “success of states in population control over the past decades”. This is pertinent because the commission will consider the 2011 Census, instead of the 1971 Census.
 
 
