Discord planted and nursed by fanatical groups and irrigated by   is the major threat to Goa’s identity today

 Opinion Poll, 1967, the event that shaped Goa’s destiny was actually a spine-chilling borderline arithmetic, which kept the tiny region Goa separate to graduate into an independent state in 1987. The final outcome could have gone anyway if the Opinion   was fought and perceived only on language. It would therefore not be correct to reduce the results of the poll as a linguistic victory.
 
 The poll was the triumph of the human geography of this petite land, which can boast of being a brand known worldwide for its secular traditions, liberal mindset, unique cuisine, festive spirit, zest for life and a tolerant outlook.
 
 Against the backdrop of Goa’s demographic disadvantage, on account of the relative disability of numbers, it was imperative for Goa to be maintained as a separate democratic unit.
 
 The debate on whether Goa could preserve the uniqueness of the Goan community and guard its identity (‘asmitai’) may not end with a clear affirmative answer. But definitely, Goa and Goans had access to all the democratic tools. Failure to make the best of opportunities are discernible. At the same time, the balance sheet of 51 years also record gains of Opinion Poll albeit accompanied by damages. Goa’s merger with any neighbouring state would have been a wash out for brand Goa and the pride of the macro community.
 
 On the way forward, migration and immigration are turning out to be threats and challenges. Both are not new, as Goans have traditionally migrated from early times. Despite migration, what differentiates Goans is their sense of belonging and love for the land. Migration continues to be a means to escape from poverty and for a better quality of life. There is no conflict between migration and attachment to the soil. The reasons for immigration into Goa are also the same. Goa is perceived as the land of opportunities by the poor and unemployed. The vacuum created by migration is occupied through immigration. In the years to come, these less privileged sections of immigrants could be those who preserve the language and culture. I would submit that those who immigrate to satisfy their basic needs would serve Goa in future as opposed to those who storm Goa for speculative investments in land and real estate or motivated by Goa as a retreat destination.
 
 The new saplings of communal hate and discord planted and nursed by fanatical groups and irrigated by political elements is the major threat to Goa’s identity. There are attempts to project Christians as anti-development because of their worry that development results in influx of Hindus. Gullible Hindus fall easy prey to such propaganda little knowing the loss to Goans as a whole. Fundamentalist elements are competing to match every cross on the street with a tulsi vrindavan and every chapel with a temple, and both these forces join together to deny even a burial place to Muslims!
 
 During the days of the Opinion Poll agitation, the forces who espoused merger would describe Goan Christians as pro-Portuguese and today the Hindutva political brigade is making similar claims and dumping those who oppose coal and river nationalization as anti-national and unpatriotic. It is this positioning and implant of social venom that poses irreversible damage to Goa,   and  
 
 The way forward is to ensure that development and politics that work to the detriment of the above are disallowed as they are an antithesis of the struggle of the Opinion Poll. Otherwise, January 16 would be the date to light candles on the tomb of ‘asmitai’.
 
 (The writer is former state election commissioner and educationist )
 
