CHENNAI: The Supreme Court directive to Karnataka to release 2tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) of   to Tamil Nadu is too little a measure and come too late as well, say farmers in the delta districts.

  
  
 
 In the absence of a mechanism like the Cauvery Management Board (CMB) to regulate release of water from Karnataka reservoirs, Tamil Nadu has lost heavily on its share of water. In the current water year (June to April), Tamil Nadu suffered a deficit of 73tmcft in its share of Cauvery inflow, going by the formula prescribed by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, PWD officials said. It is the fourth deficit year in the last decade.
 
 The combined water storage of four reservoirs, Hemavathy, Harangi, Kabini and Krishnarajasagar across the Cauvery in Karnataka stood at 20.112tmcft on Wednesday, while Mettur reservoir in Tamil Nadu had 9.5tmcft water. Unless there is heavy downpour and unexpected levels of water release from Karnataka in the coming weeks, Mettur dam will not be opened on June 12 – the customary date for water release for short-term Kuruvai. It will be the seventh year in a row to miss the scheduled date of water release.
 
 The CJI-headed bench has warned the Congress-led Siddaramaiah government in Karnataka (not a respondent in the present case) with suo motu contempt if water is not released to Tamil Nadu. In Bengaluru, Siddaramaiah refused to supply water to Tamil Nadu, citing non-availability of water.
 
  are a dejected lot. TMC farmers’ wing president Puliyur A Nagarajan alleged that the BJP government shirked its responsibilities of framing the scheme because of the Karnataka polls. “The Centre is indifferent to Tamil Nadu’s concerns,” he said. The court witnessed dramatic scenes when TN senior advocate Shekhar Naphade strongly objected to the Centre’s request for more time terming it “partisan act to favour Karnataka” and “end of co-operative federalism.” Incidentally, the Modi cabinet met on Tuesday and gave nod to upgradation of airport terminals. But the Centre’s counsel argued in the court that the PM was not available to finalise the Cauvery draft scheme because of Karnataka assembly election.
 
 Farmers’ associations have planned to organise a massive protest involving like-minded political outfits and associations after May 8 to target central government establishments. “Leave alone kuruvai and samba cultivation, even potable water supply to 19 districts depending on Cauvery riverbed is in jeopardy with uncertainty looming large,” Tamilaga Vivasaigal Sangam Trichy president M P Chinnadurai said. Agriculture department sources said the state government would decide by May-end on announcing special packages to farmers to take up kuruvai cultivation using groundwater. After giving a miss to kuruvai last year, the state could manage only 109 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrain production.
 
 
