PUNE: The district consumer court has come down heavily on a Gurugram-based private   company for deliberately and wrongfully rejecting a legitimate medical claim of a   resident even after accepting an additional loading premium towards the policy-holder’s pre-existing health condition — hypertension and diabetes. 

 “Insurance companies are collecting huge premiums from the insured persons and deliberately repudiating legitimate claims of the needy insured who are blindly purchasing the policies in the hope that they will get relief in their bad times. However, it appears that the companies are becoming profit making industry and they have no regards to the social cause,” consumer court president VP Utpat and member Onkar G Patil observed in their order on Thursday. 
 
 The bench directed   to pay the Rs 1.37 lakh claim amount along with 9% p.a. interest from October 8, 2013, and Rs 10,000 cost to the complainants, Apti Jairam Suratkal and his wife, Aruna, within 45 days from the date of receipt of order. 
 
 The Suratkals had secured a health insurance policy from the company’s branch in   on November 29, 2010. Before purchasing the policy the couple had undergone medical check-up and were found eligible for the policy. 
 
 An additional load was affected to the premium in relation to the husband owing to his pre-existing health condition. The policy was renewed from time to time till December 23, 2013, and covered costs towards hospitalisation, pre- and post-hospitalisation, day-care procedures and domiciliary treatments on cashless basis. 
 
 During subsistence of the policy, the husband was hospitalised from July 31, 2013, to August 8, 2013, for treatment of amoebiasis of liver, a type of infection. The couple incurred Rs 1.37 lakh expenses, including hospitalisation and medical costs. 
 
 However, the insurer did not provide the cashless benefit and later rejected the claim stating that the husband suppressed pre-existing condition such as hypertension and diabetes. 
 
 The complainants’ lawyer argued that the husband had disclosed his blood pressure and diabetes condition during the medical check-up. The consumer court also went through the report of the diagnostic centre which conducted the check-up. “It is significant to note that the check-up was done by the company after three days from the date of submission of proposal. This indicates that the insurance company is well aware about the medical condition of the insured (husband),” the bench observed and said the company’s argument about non-disclosure of pre-existing condition cannot be accepted.
 
 The bench said, “It further reveals from the record after knowing the condition of the insured, the insurer had issued the policy and it was renewed from time to time for a continuous period of three years. In these circumstances, a legitimate inference can be drawn that the company had charged premium after considering the medical condition of the insured and there is neither suppression nor non-disclosure of any material fact.”
 
 “It is evident from the record which is produced before us by the insurance company itself that the premium as regards the insurance of complainant no. 1 (husband) was revised with loading for the reason of medical condition of the insured,” the bench observed and said even after additional loading premium, the company deliberately repudiated the legitimate claim of the insured on frivolous ground and, thereby, not only indulged in deficient service but also in adoption of unfair trade practice.
 
 
