KOCHI: Far exceeding its own expectations, the ruling LDF candidate   romped home in the Chengannur bypoll by a margin of 20,956 votes, when the results were announced on Thursday, relegating BJP-led NDA to third place and once again proving that the Congress strategy of soft-Hindutva only served to alienate the UDF’s traditional support bases.

 Cherian, CPM’s Alappuzha district secretary and initially thought of as a poor choice for the constituency, polled 67,303 votes as opposed to his UDF rival D Vijayakumar’s 46,347 votes. The NDA candidate  , a   stalwart, got 35,270 votes, 7,412 votes less than what the saffron alliance had got in Chengannur in 2016.
 
 
  
 The hard-fought, high-decibel and unusually long campaign was made especially contentious by recent developments in neighbouring Karnataka and the Modi-versus-rest scenario that is crystallising in the run-up to the 2019 general elections. 
 
 In a constituency with a complex community-caste mosaic, the LDF played its cards adroitly, turning the polarising tactics of its two main rivals to its advantage by some clever posturing and managing to hold out something for everyone. 
 
 Though the LDF was reluctant to see the bypoll as a referendum of sorts on two years of its governance, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan were quick to pronounce it so once the result was out. “Former chief minister Oommen Chandy said that this bypoll will not only be a referendum on the state government but a referendum on the opposition too. Now, Chandy – being AICC general secretary – should ask the opposition leader to own up his (moral) responsibility and quit,” Kodiyeri said.
 
 Cherian won in all 10 panchayats and the single municipality in the constituency, a feat that disproved the ready-made theory that the Left had consolidated minority votes by raising the BJP-RSS bogey. While Christian and Muslim votes (26% and approx. 5% of the votes respectively in the constituency) did shift en masse from UDF to LDF, a consequence of Congress’s open attempt to cosy up to the majority community, the surprise aspect was LDF getting the bulk of Nair and Ezhava votes (24% and 19% respectively) as well.
 
 
