PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body’s failure to develop an alternate road after the closure of the 650-metre lane from Kunjirvasti to Rakshak Chowk has left the residents of   in the lurch.

 The defence authorities had closed the road from Kunjirvasti to Rakshak Chowk for public use in October 2015, following a high court order. Since then, the residents of Pimple Saudagar are forced to battle traffic snarls on Nashik Phata-Wakad bus rapid transit (BRT) road to reach their workplaces and educational institutes in Pune city.
 
 “We have to travel 4km extra to reach Rakshak Chowk now,” Dilip Thakur, former chairman of Treasure Island Housing Society in Pimple Saudagar said. “Two women residents who had their offices in Wagholi had to give up their jobs citing the prolonged travel time as the reason,” he added.
 
 The situation is so grim that some residents have even moved to other parts of the city, while renting out their flats here. “Around 20-25% owners of 135 flats in our society have moved to other parts of the city because of the prevailing situation,” Thakur said.
 
 Not just office-goers, even students are feeling the heat of the road closure. “Students are forced to board school buses much before the scheduled time considering the huge traffic congestion on the Nashik Phata-Wakad BRT road. Many of them have given up on their tuition classes in Aundh,” Vikash Kumar, a resident of Sairaj Regency, said.
 
 Fed up with the situation, members of various housing societies in Pimple Saudagar had formed Rakshak Road Bachao Samiti to press the authorities concerned to open the closed road. The Samiti members have held meetings with past and present civic chiefs,   officials, Chinchwad MLA Laxman Jagtap, Maval Shiv Sena MP   and Union defence minister.
 
 Sanjay Gangurde, member of the Samiti, said, “PCMC had started building alternate road linking Kunjirvasti to Hotel Shivar Chowk. But the work was stopped after objections by the defence authorities. We demand that this road be constructed at the earliest to provide some relief to the residents of Pimple Saudagar.”
 
 Shirish Poredi, spokesperson, engineering department, PCMC, said, “PCMC is ready to construct the alternate road if the defence authorities and the land owners allow us.” Brig Dhiraj Mohan, station commander, Khadki and Aundh said, “PCMC must approach the ministry of defence (MoD) to get this stretch for the construction of the alternate road.”
 
 
