History was set this January 26, as for the first time ever, a women’s team of daredevils performed stunts on heavy-duty bikes that left audiences on the edge of their seats. Traditionally,   and Army’s bike-borne daredevils end the Republic Day parade in Delhi on alternate years. But this year, it was members of the BSF’s women motorcycle team,  , who did the honours. The 113-member squad has women aged between 25 and 30 years, who were carefully chosen from different combat ranks. Among them was BSF constable  , who hails from Shahapur,  .

 Shruti’s welcome in Belagavi was nothing short of the kind heroes receive. Married to an   constable, Shruti was first welcomed with great pomp and show at her in-law’s house, before she visited her parents, who showered her with flowers as she walked into the house, where a pleasant surprise was in store for her. “I am so happy that all my relatives are here to welcome me today. This is such a nice surprise. Being showered with flowers feels very special,” Shruti tells us.
 
 Once she met her family, Shruti took some time out to speak to us about her journey with the BSF. “My father was in the army, and I wanted to follow his footsteps. Every since I was a child, I dreamt of serving the nation, which is why I joined the BSF in 2012. Through the years, I was posted in different parts of the country. In November, I joined the women’s bike stunt team and we began training for the Republic Day parade. We trained on a 350 CC bike; many of the women didn’t know how to ride a bike, so they began learning to do so from scratch. Initially, we were very scared, but we never gave up. We were given the opportunity to perform on R-Day in Delhi and we showed everyone what we are made of,” she beams.
 
 Recalling the historical moment, Shruti says, “Just as we began our stunts, there was complete silence, but soon, the entire venue erupted with applause. That felt very good and we were all very proud.”
 Shruti says that whatever she has achieved has been because of the support she received from her parents, in-laws and husband. “My husband and in-laws supported me completely and it was only because of them and my parents that I could achieve this feat. Girls should not be afraid; they should be go-getters and make their parents proud with whatever they do. Parents, on their part, must not discriminate between boys and girls, and must educate their daughters,” she signs off. 
 
 — Krishna Kamble
 
