GURUGRAM: Residents of   phases 2 and 3 have expressed concern about encroachments like unauthorised tea stalls and liquor vends in the area. DLF-3 residents said squatters have occupied large areas near blocks T, S, U and W. “We are really tired of these encroachments that have come up here over the past few years,” said  , a resident.

 “While we wait for existing ones to be scaled back, we only end up seeing new ones coming up at various places and existing ones expanding even further with impunity,” Bajaj added. 
 
 “New ones have sprung up in all these blocks. What is the point of living in affluent societies if they are so accessible to every illegal squatter?” said another resident. Some of them also pointed to a large patch of land occupied by a scrap dealer. “Areas close to Cyber Greens, at the very entrance of DLF-3, are swarming with dhabas and taxis,” Bajaj said. “This is not even a semblance of order in this area. People are erecting these unauthorised stalls here, but the authority is not coming forward to curb them.”
 
 Large parts of private land interspersed within the land belonging to DLF has resulted in the complex problem due to which shanty clusters have come up across the entire DLF-3 area. 
 
 Fuming DLF residents have been complaining almost every month about having the problems they face due to these encroachments. 
 
 While residents allege the stalls have been putting a strain on the power and water resources, officials said permission for securing connections is often issued after the vendors pay four times the regular charges. 
 
 In DLF-2, residents said opening up of dhabas has resulted in drunkards coming to the area, which creates insecurity among residents. “These dhabas have come up near   and other areas too. There are liquor vends as well. As a result, drunk people often end up frequenting residential areas late at night. Such an intrusion creates panic and scare,” said R S Rathi, another resident of DLF-2.
 
 When TOI contacted DLF officials regarding the issue, they refused to comment.
 
 
