NAGPUR:   ( ) and controversies have always gone hand-in-hand.

 
 It’s no different even after change of guard. The autocratic ways of newly elected body have not only brought disrepute to the game but also diminished the standard of hockey.
 
 In the last 20 days, VHA play field has witnessed the most lacklustre encounters in the history of  , the most prestigious tournament in the region.
 
 The 2018 edition of the league has posted some one-sided contests, owing to VHA’s bizarre decision to allow Under-11 kids to put their life in danger while facing 19-year-old and above seniors.
 
 Earlier, there was a tournament rule that barred “players below 16 from playing in the ‘B’ Division league.” Now, the new regime has overruled it and allowed kids to play the senior division league. It was learnt that this has been done to increase the participation. Besides, the controversial entry to MOIL XI, the main sponsor of the tournament, has raised a few eye-brows.
 
 “The autocratic ways of secretary Vinod Gawai and president BS Bhartia have spoiled the league,” one of the incumbent and senior VHA vice-presidents, told TOI on condition of anonymity. “They did not make amendments to the rules and started the league. This results in school kids playing with their seniors with a fear of not getting hurt. It marks a poor show as the seniors end up netting more than 10 goals in 60 minutes,” another vice-president said.
 
 “If they conduct the game till 60 minutes, some sides will even score more than 20 25 goals. What’s point in organizing such tournament? Seniors won’t improve with the lack of competition, while it will affect the confidence of youngsters,” the official said.
 
 Earlier, VHA used to organize two different leagues—Senior Division and ‘B’ Division. An executive member informed that both the leagues have been merged without passing the resolution in the executive committee meeting.
 
 If the off-field drama is not enough, the on-field crisis also leaving its impression. In one of the encounters last week, VHA match official attacked a team manager to mark a new low.
 
 To make the matter worse, in a league match on Thursday, Golden Hockey Club took the field without goalkeeper as they had only 10 players and lost 3-0 to Ajni Sporting Club. When TOI called secretary Gawai for reaction, he didn’t receive the calls.
 
 RESULTS
 
 Ajni Sporting Club 3 (Sarfuddin Sheikh 17, 19, Ronald Rampure 29) bt Golden Hockey Club 0
 
 Green City 4 (Praveen Dungdung 12, Rajat Ukey 24, Sheelratna Gavai 38, 51) bt Morning Star 0.
 
