NEW DELHI: Usually diamonds hog the limelight. But for banks caught in the alleged fraud at Punjab National Bank ( ) involving companies owned by   and Mehul Choksi, it is the turn of pearls to attract all the attention.

 
 After all, it involves the funding of pearls via letters of undertaking (LoUs) that were allegedly issued fraudulently by PNB executives to companies owned by the two diamond traders. PNB has maintained that banks, which provided funding on the basis of these guarantees, should have checked the rules before extending assistance.
 
 Typically, lenders do a basic check of KYC guidelines and the purpose for which LoUs are to be issued, including the tenure, which in many cases was 360 days as against the RBI’s 90-day norm for gold, silver, precious and semi-precious metals.
 
 Ideally, that should clinch the issue in PNB’s favour. It is only for capital goods and a few other items that the   tenure is longer, said sources in other banks. But lenders, who discounted the LoU, said pearls are not specified as a separate category in the   guidelines (do not give a specified time-period for pearls, and lenders are using this loophole) and that allowed them to provide funding based on the guarantees that were issued by PNB, which later turned out were issued fraudulently.
 
 “The funding is based on the name of the bank that is issuing the LoU and we had no reason to believe that a fraud was happening at PNB. Plus, pearls exist as a separate category in the commerce department’s guidelines,” said a bank executive, who did not wish to be identified.
 
 Bankers said that pearls did exist as a separate category in the RBI’s circulars too, but do not find a separate mention any longer. On its part, PNB executives would like to believe that pearls are part of precious and semi-precious stones but that’s something that RBI will have to decide.
 
 A ruling on this will decide how lenders split the burden of the fraud, something that all others believe is PNB’s liability. Even the government is awaiting the outcome of the RBI’s decision as it believes that other banks should have done better due diligence.
 
