is considered as one of the most auspicious festivals in Hindu Mythology. The festival lasts for
 where each day is dedicated to different avatars of Goddess Durga. This year the Navratri is starting from 18th March. The 9 goddesses worshipped on the 9 days are Shailputri,  , Chandraghanta, Kushmanda, Skanda Mata, Katyayani, Klaratim Mahagauri and Siddhidatri.

 
 
 
 The 
 starts by applying tilak to your forehead and drinking the holy water. Then you offer flowers and water to the goddess. Now offer goddess Chandan, flower and akshat mixed in water. Bathe her with cow milk, curd, honey and sugar. Now finally bathe the goddess with the holy water. Put tika and make her wear new clothes along with chudi, sindoor, kajal and chandan. Now light the dhoop and sing Brahmacharini aarti. 
 
 
 
 
 Goddess Parvati took birth second time at the home of Daksha Prajapati. Goddess Parvati was great sati in this form and was worshipped as goddess Brahmacharini. The provider of all fortunes, God Mangal is said to be governed by Goddess Brahmacharini. The Goddess is depicted as having two hands where she carries Kamandal (copper pot) in the left hand and Jap mala (Chanting beads) in the right one along with bare feet. 
 
 It is said that Goddess Brahmacharini did severe penance to get Lord Shiva as her husband. She was called Brahmacharini as she performed hard austerity. She was on a diet for 1000 years where she ate only fruits and flowers and for another 100 years she ate only leafy vegetables along with sleeping on the floor. She lived in an open place during all the seasons including summer, winter, rain and storms. She ate Bilva leaves while she prayed to Lord Shiva. Later it is said she even stopped having Bilva leaves and she was called Aparna when she did so. Brahmacharini was Goddess’s name in devnagiri script. Her favourite flower was jasmine. 
 
 
 
 In the form of Goddess Brahmacharini, the goddess grants one prosperity and happiness. The colour for the this day is Peacock blue. The colour depicts tranquillity and strong energy.
 
 
 
 ॐ देवी ब्रह्मचारिण्यै नमः॥
 Om Devi Brahmacharinyai Namah॥
 
 दधाना कर पद्माभ्यामक्षमाला कमण्डलू।
 देवी प्रसीदतु मयि ब्रह्मचारिण्यनुत्तमा॥
 Dadhana Kara Padmabhyamakshamala Kamandalu।
 Devi Prasidatu Mayi Brahmacharinyanuttama॥
 
 या देवी सर्वभूतेषु माँ ब्रह्मचारिणी रूपेण संस्थिता। नमस्तस्यै नमस्तस्यै नमस्तस्यै नमो नमः॥
 Ya Devi Sarvabhuteshu Maa Brahmacharini Rupena Samsthita। 
 Namastasyai Namastasyai Namastasyai Namo Namah॥
 
 वन्दे वाञ्छितलाभाय चन्द्रार्धकृतशेखराम्।
 जपमाला कमण्डलु धरा ब्रह्मचारिणी शुभाम्॥
 गौरवर्णा स्वाधिष्ठानस्थिता द्वितीय दुर्गा त्रिनेत्राम्।
 धवल परिधाना ब्रह्मरूपा पुष्पालङ्कार भूषिताम्॥
 परम वन्दना पल्लवाधरां कान्त कपोला पीन।
 पयोधराम् कमनीया लावणयं स्मेरमुखी निम्ननाभि नितम्बनीम्॥
 Vande Vanchhitalabhaya Chandrardhakritashekharam।
 Japamala Kamandalu Dhara Brahmacharini Shubham॥
 Gauravarna Swadhishthanasthita Dwitiya Durga Trinetram।
 Dhawala Paridhana Brahmarupa Pushpalankara Bhushitam॥
 Parama Vandana Pallavaradharam Kanta Kapola Pina।
 Payodharam Kamaniya Lavanayam Smeramukhi Nimnanabhi Nitambanim॥
 
 तपश्चारिणी त्वंहि तापत्रय निवारणीम्।
 ब्रह्मरूपधरा ब्रह्मचारिणी प्रणमाम्यहम्॥
 शङ्करप्रिया त्वंहि भुक्ति-मुक्ति दायिनी।
 शान्तिदा ज्ञानदा ब्रह्मचारिणी प्रणमाम्यहम्॥
 Tapashcharini Tvamhi Tapatraya Nivaranim।
 Brahmarupadhara Brahmacharini Pranamamyaham॥
 Shankarapriya Tvamhi Bhukti-Mukti Dayini।
 Shantida Jnanada Brahmacharini Pranamamyaham॥
 
 त्रिपुरा में हृदयम् पातु ललाटे पातु शङ्करभामिनी।
 अर्पण सदापातु नेत्रो, अर्धरी च कपोलो॥
 पञ्चदशी कण्ठे पातु मध्यदेशे पातु महेश्वरी॥
 षोडशी सदापातु नाभो गृहो च पादयो।
 अङ्ग प्रत्यङ्ग सतत पातु ब्रह्मचारिणी।
 Tripura Mein Hridayam Patu Lalate Patu Shankarabhamini।
 Arpana Sadapatu Netro, Ardhari Cha Kapolo॥
 Panchadashi Kanthe Patu Madhyadeshe Patu Maheshwari॥
 Shodashi Sadapatu Nabho Griho Cha Padayo।
 Anga Pratyanga Satata Patu Brahmacharini।
 
 
 
 
 आरती देवी ब्रह्माचारिणी जी की 
 जय अंबे ब्रह्माचारिणी माता। 
 जय चतुरानन प्रिय सुख दाता। 
 ब्रह्मा जी के मन भाती हो। 
 ज्ञान सभी को सिखलाती हो। 
 ब्रह्मा मंत्र है जाप तुम्हारा। 
 जिसको जपे सकल संसारा। 
 जय गायत्री वेद की माता। 
 जो मन निस दिन तुम्हें ध्याता। 
 कमी कोई रहने न पाए। 
 कोई भी दुख सहने न पाए। 
 उसकी विरति रहे ठिकाने। 
 जो तेरी महिमा को जाने। 
 रुद्राक्ष की माला ले कर। 
 जपे जो मंत्र श्रद्धा दे कर। 
 आलस छोड़ करे गुणगाना। 
 मां तुम उसको सुख पहुंचाना। 
 ब्रह्माचारिणी तेरो नाम। 
 पूर्ण करो सब मेरे काम। 
 भक्त तेरे चरणों का पुजारी। 
 रखना लाज मेरी महतारी।
 
