KHATKAR KALAN (NAWANSHAHR): Cultural affairs minister   said on Friday that the state government would observe March 23 — martyrdom day of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, and Sukhdev — as ‘Youth Empowerment Day’. Sidhu said he would even write to Prime Minster   suggesting that the date be declared ‘Youth Empowerment Day’ at the national level.

 Sidhu, who inspected the expansion project of museum at Bhagat Singh’s ancestral village Khatkar Kalan in Nawanshahr district on Friday, also handed over a cheque of Rs 2 crore, sent by chief minister  , to the local officials for completing the work of the museum. He also instructed the officials to ensure the completion of all works related to the electrical equipment and the lights by the end of the month.
 
 Later speaking to media, the minister said on March 23, the CM would also attend the martyrdom day function and the government would institute ‘Bhagat Singh Youth Icon Award’. He said that he had also written to the Union government seeking Rs 8 crore more for beautification of the surroundings and for adding to the infrastructure to make the place tourist friendly.
 
 He said a light and sound should would also be started and run on daily basis. “As the CM would open the museum on March 23, everything would be in place as all works would be completed,” said Sidhu.
 
 He said a book based on the jail diary of Bhagat Singh would be prepared and distributed free among school students. He announced an initial grant of Rs 25 lakh for the project. He said a cafeteria and a toilet block would also come up near the museum.
 
 The minister also said he would take up the issue of halt of the buses at Khatkar Kalan. On the issue of some articles associated with the martyr not returned after being sent for display in an exhibition in New Delhi, Sidhu said he would pursue the issue after getting the details from concerned officials.
 
 Sidhu, who holds the local government department also, directed that four municipal committees of Nawanshahr district to reserve 0.5% cess each in their respective budgets for better maintenance of the ancestral house of the martyr, park and museum at Khatkar Kalan.
 
 
 
 During his visit to take stock of the ongoing project at Khatkar Kalan on October 2, 2017, minister Navjot Singh Sidhu wrote a cheque of Rs 2.50 lakh in the name of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) from his personal account after he came to know that the power bill of Bhagat Singh’s ancestral house was long pending. “In case the amount written on the cheque is be more than dues then extra amount would go as advance payment to the PSPCL,” he had said.
 
 
