

 
 
 
 
 A: The Milan series of naval exercises were initiated in 1995 to promote regional cooperation with navies of East Asia as well as South East Asia. India’s ‘Look East’ policy has transformed into ‘Act East’ over a period of time. Today, an expanded Milan is a symbol of our enduring commitment to engage with maritime neighbours to ensure security and stability in the Indo-Pacific. Maritime security is a strategic imperative as nearly 90% of our trade by volume and 70% by value flows through the sea. Milan facilitates exchange of views and best practices as well as operational interaction towards developing a shared understanding of the maritime challenges of our region.
 
 
 
 
 A: Andaman & Nicobar Command (ANC) has matured as a tri-Service command, built on the edifice of jointmanship with effective synergy among Navy, Army and IAF. Plans are afoot to further strengthen ANC with appropriate assets and infrastructure augmentation to increase overall security in the region. The Navy has already augmented force-levels there with weapons-intensive warships, apart from progressing construction of jetties, extension of runways of naval air stations etc.
 
 
 
 
 A: Continued prevalence of piracy, illegal fishing, arms smuggling and other such nefarious activities directly impinge on the maritime security of India in particular and the region at large. Natural disasters also ravage the region frequently. In addition, there has been an increase in the presence of `Extra-Regional Forces’. Early and effective response is extremely important towards successful management of many of these contingencies. The Navy, therefore, moved to the new MBD philosophy in June 2017 to ensure availability of warships in 7-8 critical areas of the region on a near continuous basis to provide rapid response to any contingency. Immediate gains have already been visible in India’s response to Cyclone Mora in Myanmar, rescue of stranded Bangladeshi nationals at sea, HADR support to Mauritius and a much enhanced Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) of the region.
 
 
 
 
 A: There has been a noticeable increase in the deployment of Chinese ships, submarines and research vessels in the IOR. While the early Chinese deployments were projected as anti-piracy deployments, the setting up of bases and the increasing presence of ships and submarines have implications for the regional security environment. The Indian Navy constantly evaluates the maritime security environment in our areas of interest and manages its own deployments to address new challenges. We also pursue constructive maritime security cooperation with friendly nations. The Navy remains well prepared for countering any threat to national security, within the IOR and beyond.
 
 
 
 
 A: Indian Navy is committed to provide capacity and capability building assistance to friendly navies. Every navy has unique requirements which necessities customized solutions. Indian Navy has provided such tailor-made assistance to several countries like construction of ships for Mauritius Coast Guard and Sri Lankan Navy and development of coastal surveillance radar systems in Sri Lanka, Mauritius, Seychelles and Maldives, among other things.
 
 
 
 
 A: The Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) between India and USA enables ease of access to logistics services during authorised port visits, joint exercises, joint training and Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief efforts. This has helped the Indian Navy to extend as well as consolidate its operational reach in our areas of interest. India-France relations are also very robust, and we work closely with the French Navy in many areas. Accordingly, the proposal for a similar agreement with France is under examination by the Indian government.
 
 
 
 
 A: Our partnership with US, Japan and Australia is based on a converging vision for the Indo-Pacific. A free, open, prosperous and inclusive Indo-Pacific region serves the long-term interests of all countries in the region and the world at large. We are also working together on enhancing connectivity as well as for addressing common security challenges impacting the region, including terrorism.
 
 
 
 
 A: Assumption Island is a sovereign territory of the Republic of Seychelles. India’s assistance to develop facilities on the island is based on Seychelles request, in consonance with the vision enunciated in the acronym SAGAR - ‘Security and Growth for all in the Region’. The Indian Navy has a long standing bi-lateral relationship with   (SPDF) that spans various aspects ranging from material assistance to technical support and training. India stands committed to helping Seychelles and other friendly foreign countries in the region, to realise their requirement of maritime security and shall extend all assistance in helping them better monitor their Exclusive Economic Zones.
 
 
 
 
 A: Let me first clarify that Australia has participated in the Malabar exercise earlier in 2007. The participation in various multi-lateral exercises is flexible based on the scope of the exercise and several other operational considerations. The Royal Australian Navy and Indian Navy enjoy a robust bilateral relationship. Both navies exercise together on a biennial basis as part of Australia – India Exercise (AUSINDEX). The last edition of this exercise was successfully conducted in 2017. We have also participated as an Observer in the multilateral exercise KAKADU hosted by Australia in 2016. We would continue to build on these engagements further in the days ahead.
 
