Unless you are a history buff, chances are that the names  , Bhitargaon and Kurtha will mean nothing to you. These tiny villages are rarely seen on a tourist map but the antiquity of the heritage they house in their precincts is beyond question. Spread across Kanpur Nagar and Kanpur Dehat districts, these temples also give us a glimpse of what the region’s architectural and cultural traditions would have been, a thousand or more years ago.

 Take the temple of Nibia Kheda village. The short drive from   to this village winds its way through a road flanked by green fields. The occasional tractor makes its way past. And then the ASI’s blue board is suddenly visible as a sign of the destination being reached.
 
 The temple, or, to be more specific, the temple complex, is stunning. For one thing, it is not a single temple but a full set of brick temples built in the Panchayatana style—which means there is a large, central shrine surrounded by four subsidiary ones, one on each side of the main structure.
 
 All the structures have a common feature: on the outside, they are richly embellished with a mix of floral-geometric patterns and some Hindu iconography, while being plain within.   on the main shrine does throw up a question about who the temple was dedicated to—a Shivling as the main deity contrasts with a Gajalakshmi (Vishnu’s consort)
 
 on the outer doorway. The   signboard nearby clarifies that the shrine may have originally been dedicated to Vishnu but later became a Shiva temple, being locally known as Bhadreshvara. The sign also confirms the complex to date back to the 10th century.
 
 A little more than an hour’s drive from this millennium-old temple is Kurtha village, on the outskirts of which is a small ASImaintained compound with the remains of three more brickterracotta temples. The setting seems to define rural India—a visitor walks through a village, past herds of buffaloes and through green fields to reach the site. Before-and-after pictures of the place indicate that the ASI has pieced the main structure here from the rubble around. The Panchayatana pattern is again visible here.
 
 Further north of here is Bhitargaon, home to what is probably the best documented temple in this region. Historical records reveal that when visited by Sir   in 1877 and 1878, it was already a ruin but still standing, only to be hit by lightning in 1894. The structure that we see was put together using a mix of old and then-available material. Historians attribute some ‘firsts’ to this temple—dated to the Gupta period in the 5th century. It might have been among the first to have a shikhara built above the sanctum-sanctorum as well as the first to try the brick-terracotta style that became popular. On the outer wall of the temple are several niches, some of which house Hindu icons such as a Varaha.
 
 One can only imagine what the empty niches contained and where the missing icons are today.
 
 These are among Uttar Pradesh’s oldest existing temples and it is a huge credit to the efforts of the ASI that they have been restored to their current state. It is an opportunity for the state tourism department to leverage but will they rise to the occasion?
 
