KOLKATA: South Dum Dum municipality will soon become the first civic body in the state, and possibly the country, to set up a   academy to train schoolgirls in martial arts like karate, judo and taekwondo. The move, said sources, would help young women tackle the growing menace of harassment in everyday life.

 Civic officials said the municipality’s sports and youth affairs department runs a three-storeyed complex at Kalindi — the   — where football and chess training is given. The self-defence centre will be set up there. 
 
 “We are in touch with a number of martial arts coaches, who will impart the self-defence training,” said South Dum Dum Municipality chairman-in-council member Pradip Kumar Majumder. “We plan to start the academy from April with about 100 schoolgirls. The girls need not be residents of areas under the South Dum Dum municipality; those from adjoining areas are also welcome. The academy will be run and managed by the civic body’s sports and youth affairs department.” 
 
 The girls will be given the training at a nominal cost, and even that cost would be waived for those from economically disadvantaged families, said a source. “The plan is to engage more schools in the area, so that those trained in self-defence techniques are then able to pass on their knowledge to other girls,” an official said.
 
 Schoolgirls who are learning various martial arts, as well as parents, felt it was very important for girls to learn self-defence techniques. “Learning martial arts increases self-confidence, which helps us tackle adverse situations,” said Shivangi Biswas, a Class VII student at a reputable school, who is a taekwondo athlete herself. “It is always beneficial for young girls to learn some form of martial arts as it increases confidence and helps them overcome any kind of situation,” said New Town resident Suravi Mukherjee, who is the mother of a school-going girl. 
 
 Kolkata Police’s ‘Sukanya’ project, launched some years back to empower school- and college-going girls with self-defence techniques, has been running successfully, with several hundred school and college girls getting enrolled. It has been extended to the Bidhannagar, Barrackpore and Howrah police commissionerates.
 
 
