Presenting the Chennai Times   Men 2017. With hot bodies, sexy smiles and charming personalities, these men are everything desirable. Catch them if you can, ladies!

 
 : He’s the first musician to have made this —   Most Desirable Man. But unlike Anirudh, who had this incredulous look when we told him he had been voted Chennai Times Most Desirable Man 2017, we are certain this slot is truly his. He insists it must be his voice that got him the votes in the month-long online votes, and says it’s not looks alone that make a person desirable. That girls also find him hot doesn’t sound too convincing to him, but he’s self-effacing that way. So, yes, Anirudh has the talent, the looks, and he’s our man on the top this year. And the fact that he brought in the tea tray and served us tea and saw us off right till where our car was parked makes the chamathu paiyyan a perfect ladies’ man. Desirable? You bet! And after hearing his tenor-voice telling us why he thinks that the pain of a heartbreak helps compose great music, how can we find him anything but irresistible?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Claim to fame: This guy’s on a roll, and is now firmly sitting on the hero’s saddle. His Velaikkaran was a hit, and he has shown his acting chops yet again.
 Relationship Status: Sorry girls, he’s married (to Aarthi) and taken. But nothing stops you from desiring someone like him.
 Desirability Quotient: His appeal lies in his rustic charm, his sense of humour, and his earnest smile.
 
 
 
 
 The Bigg Boss Tamil made him a household name, and he’s cashing in on all that fame that’s come his way post that. 
 
 He’s not spoken for yet, and his affairs, if any, haven’t made it to the goss columns. 
 
 Nice, clean youthful looks, and we sure think he has swag, too.
 
 
 Varma, his first film, hasn’t gone on floors, but he’s piqued enough curiosity both because of his looks and for being dishy actor Vikram’s son. 
 
  This is one guy whose love life we are so going to be following. To assume he’s single is a good place to start with. 
 
 : Chip off the old block. Need we say more?
 
 
  With more than 25 movies under his belt, his career graph is headed north all the way.
 
  He, his wife, and daughter make a pretty family picture.
 
  Winsome smile, boyishly handsome, deep voice, and, well, Mammooty’s son!
 
 
 There’s a lot more to him, cinematically speaking, but his menacing role of Bhallaladeva in the Bahubali series eclipses all else. We are keeping our eyes peeled for his direct Tamil film, Enai Noki Paayum Thota.
 
  He has dated or been linked to some glam women in the past, but he swears he’s single now. 
 
  Rugged, raw masculine appeal, he screams macho all the way. 
 
 
 
 
  He’s going places, literally! Kollywood success apart, Dhanush is all set to take the world by storm with his role in the international film The Extraordinary Journey Of The Fakir. 
 
  He’s married to the lovely Aishwaryaa  .
 
  The eyes, the wiry frame. As for the rest, ask the women!
 
 
  Winner of Bigg Boss Tamil, Arav first appeared in a small role in Saithan. But the man has been signing up movies with abandon.
 
  He’s single, ladies. All yours! 
 
  Has to be those heart-melting brown eyes, and oh, that smile! Not to forget, the now-gym-toned hot bod.
 
 
  Think Takkaru Takkaru, the song that helped trigger the pro-jallikattu protests in Tamil Nadu in 2016. And then, of course, the box office hit, Meesaya Murukku, and you’ve got your man.
 
  He married the love of his life in a quiet wedding last year.
 
 The meesai, don’t you agree girls? He’s an affable, quiet guy, and quite the charmer.
 
 
  He’s proved his mettle with a variety of roles, and has taken on a slew of interesting projects, including Semma Botha Aagatha, Imaikka Nodigal and Boomerang. 
 
 : Single. Wanna find out if he’s ready to mingle, ladies?
 
 Oh, those abs and sharp, boyish features!
 
 
  Chennai’s poster boy in cricket, the fastest cricketer to grab the Test double of 2000 runs and 250 wickets, once namma paiyyan, always namma paiyyan!
 
 He is happily married to his childhood friend, Prithi.
 
 His never-give-up attitude on the field and his boy-next-door appeal are killer qualities to possess.
 
 
 Tamil films’ original bad boy, controversy's favourite child, actor-singer-director, Simbu turned music composer with Sakka Podu Podu Raja last year.
 
  Go for him, girls. He’s single
 
 Just everything. The soulful eyes, the kissable lips, the swag… the works.
 
 
  While he completed the London Edinburgh London cycling challenge last year, Arya’s busy with the big-budget Sangamithra and a bunch of other projects. 
 
  He’s single, but status oughta change soon as he is in search of his bride through the show Enga Veetu Mapillai.
 
 His dreamy eyes and too-hot-to-handle physique is a lethal combination.
 
 He made an impact by starring in a serious horror flick, Aval. Known for his knack of choosing films, Siddharth also has Shaitan Ka Bachcha in Tamil! 
 
  With a chock-a-bloc schedule, we don’t think he has time for love now.
 
  This guy doesn’t really age, does he? His urbane charm and killer smile make girls go weak in the knees. 
 
 
  From being a romantic hero to playing action roles with perfection, Ravi has come a long way. After performing a challenging role in Vanamagan, audiences are now looking forward to the space thriller Tik Tik Tik. 
 
  He renewed vows with his sweetheart, wife Aarti, in Las Vegas.
 
  He's suave, sophisticated and oh-so-sexy!
 
 
  He’s been one of K-Town’s sweethearts since Neram, and with his straight Tamil film, Richie, the hottie proved that he’s more than just a romantic hero. 
 
  A caring husband and a doting father to his kids.
  Well, there are many. But we find his attractive smile and extreme good looks a win for the girls
 
 
  His tryst with cricket started when he was 14. Today, he has proved himself as a bankable batsman, bowler and a wicket-keeper. 
 
  now runs in the family, thanks to his squash superstar wife Dipika Pallikal. 
 
 His sharp looks and flirty smile get it going for him.
 
 
  Having debuted in Kollywood with Meen Kuzhambum Mann Paanaiyum, he has Oru Pakka Kathai lined up for release here. 
 
  This hottie is single, girls!
 
  His boyish charm, sparkling eyes and that cute smile do the trick.
 
 
 He’s known for portraying diverse roles with much gusto like in Sangili Bungili Kadhava Thorae and Kalakalappu 2 or the upcoming Gypsy.
 
 He tells us that his wife Supriya is the best thing to have happened to him. 
 
  We love his athletic bod and his personal style statement and his sense of humour.
 
 
  This 
 hotshot director wowed everyone with his debut film, Dhruvangal Pathinaaru, which he directed as a 21-year-old. Now, his upcoming Nagarasooran is one of the most-expected films this year.
 
 Single, and we think he has all the time to hunt!
 
  His boyish persona and sort-of-geeky-look is quite appealing, we must say.
 
 
  While his film Sila Samayangalil received appreciation at international film festivals, his Oxygen was a widely feted film.
 
  He’s single, but there’s no dearth for love from his fans.
 
 Sharp-features and a smile to die for.
 
 
  While   showed that he could do offbeat roles convincingly, Ivan Thanthiran and Hara Hara Mahadevaki proved his commercial viability. 
 
  The hottie is single, dahlings!
 
  His illustrious lineage, easy-going persona, and the touch of mischievousness work magic on others.
 
 
  He has made a name for choosing films that are off the beaten track, like Zero and the upcoming Idhu Vedhalam Sollum Kathai. 
 
  He’s enjoying marital bliss with Sonali. 
 
 His impish charm makes him popular on the hot-o-metre.
 
 
  From a comedy reality show participant to comedy superstar and now a bankable hero, Santhanam’s growth has been commendable. 
 
 He says his wife Usha is the wind beneath his wings. 
 
 Who doesn’t like a man with a great sense of humour?
 
 
  Be it playing the detective’s aide in Thupparivalan or the stylish antagonist in Thiruttu Payale 2, the man has reinvented himself as an actor. 
 
  Prasanna and his actress-wife Sneha give many youngsters #couplegoals.
 
  His sharp gaze, brooding good looks and winning smile are his biggest assets.
 
 
 He made a mark with Miruthan and Kuttram 23. The TV star will now be seen in Garjanai, the Tamil remake of NH4. 
 
  His marriage to Sriranjani Sundaram is what fairytale happily-ever-afters are made of. 
 
  Tall and well-built, his gentlemanly ways work like a charm.
 
 
 
 
  This Mr India World 2014 2nd Runner-up is one of the most-sought-after fitness trainers in the city now. A sports enthusiast, he also dabbles in basketball.
 
  Single, but not sure if he’s looking. Go, find out! 
 
  His intense looks and sculpted body make him the ultimate beefcake.
 
 
 
 
 After crooning Macho for Mersal and Rajaali for 2.0, Sid is really on a roll. 
 
  ‘Sing’le and we think quite a catch too!
 
 His mesmerising voice is enough to get him all the attention.
 
 
 
 
  He’s hot property in the stand-up scene. Best known for his stand-up special Madrasi Da, which has gotten him popular across the globe, he’s ready with the latest one, I Was Not Ready Da.
 
 
 Single, and is constantly being advised to get married! Girls, take note.
 
  His wit makes him super attractive.
 
 
  He often says that a steering wheel and some pedals under his feet will put a smile on his face. 
 
  Single, but, we hear, he’s going steady.
 
 : His aggression and drive to succeed are his biggest assets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
