Everybody wants to have a healthy heart… But, when it comes to choosing the right food for a healthy heart, it can make quite a difference. Because, what you consume will help reduce the risk of having a heart ailment. We bring you super foods that are good for your heart and which you can add to your daily diet.

 
 
 These tasty, soft fruits are well known for stipulating the body and heart with the needed healthy fats. Avocados are rich in the mono-unsaturated fats that have the ability to lower the risk of you having a heart ailment. There are even a number of different ways to prepare them. You can make them into guacamole or just have them as they are. They contain a high amount of antioxidants and potassium.
 
 
 
 Having an occasional piece of dark chocolate benefits your heart. Research shows that consumption of dark chocolate daily reduces non-fatal heart ailment and stroke in people. They even help reduce inflammation. Make sure that you watch your portions, because too much of it is not good as well.
 
 
 
 Citrus fruits like   and Oranges have a high content of vitamin C. it has the ability to reduce the risk of you having a heart disease. They even help in reducing blood pressure and cholesterol. Oranges, just like  , act like a sponge and soaks up all your cholesterol.
 
 
 
 Including a lot of berries in your diet helps dilate your blood vessels and its circulation. It works better when you have three servings of berries a week. They contain a great level of flavonoids and offer additional cardiovascular advantages.
 
 
 
 Salmon, along with other fatty fish like mackerel, anchovies and sardines are the ones which have a high regard when it comes to super food for a healthy heart. The reason it is number one is because they contain a large amount of omega 3 fatty acids. They even help control high pressure; reduce erratic heart beats and atherosclerosis.
 
 
 
 Garlic helps guard your blood in many ways. It reduces an enzyme called angiotensin, which is known to tighten your blood vessels and increases the flexibility of them. Having a crushed garlic is more beneficial than an intact one.
 
 
 
 Oatmeal has the ability to reduce cholesterol because of its high content of soluble fiber. A nice steaming bowl of oatmeal porridge is a delightful way to start your day. It is easy to make and it keeps your midday hunger cravings away. Oatmeal acts as a sponge once it enters your digestive system. It absorbs in all the cholesterol so it is removed and not engrossed in your bloodstream. They are also packed with multiple vitamins and minerals.
 
 
