KOCHI: As a career economist who wandered into the arena of politics, people of Kerala had always expected their finance minister   to transform state’s economy by delivering what he promised in his budget speeches and making Kerala a business-friendly destination for investors. However, it seems, Isaac will not be able to walk his talk. There are signs of his promises remaining unfulfilled, due to the strain in flow of revenues and unbridled cost of servicing the governmental machinery.

 “The past two budgets of Isaac are classic cases of over-promising and under-delivering,” said  , president, Institute for Sustainable Development and Governance (ISDG).
 
 “Highly promising projects are announced in the budget estimates in February, but when you look at the revised estimates in October, you could see that many of the plans were cut down. Further, the actual expenditure at the end of the financial year would again be smaller than the revised figures,” said Samuel. K M Mani was criticised for over-estimating the revenue to minimise the deficit. “Isaac is also doing the same as the state hasn’t been able to generate the revenues it had estimated in the last budget,” said Samuel, an adviser to the  .
 
  
  
 
 Figures from the budget documents corroborate that Kerala has a history of low budget integrity. For FY-16, revenue receipts were initially estimated to be Rs 77,427 crore. The later figures shrunk gradually, coming down to Rs 71,020 crore during the revision, before finally touching a modest Rs 69,033 crore actual. Similarly, FY-17’s revenue receipts were estimated at Rs 84,617 crore, which later shrunk to Rs 80,620 crore, during revision. Actuals are yet to realise.
 
 Another disturbing factor is the lack of quality in governmental expenditures. “Many departments are not utilizing their budgetary funds and spend it in a hasty manner towards the end of the fiscal. Around 25-30 national or international seminars are being held in Kerala during January-March, 2018, to spend the allocated money,” Samuel said.
 
 Borrowing money and spending it on salaries and pensions and interest on debt year after year will result in serious financial crisis, warned Mary George, former chairperson of Kerala public expenditure review committee. Salaries and pensions together accounted for 53% of the total revenue expenditure of the state in FY-18 budget.
 
 A way to rein in this would be to undertake wage revision once in 10 years, instead of the current five years. “While Kerala increased the salary by 40% in January, 2016, after a gap of five years, the Centre hiked it by only 23% after a gap of 10 years,” she said.
 
 Isaac has also been accused of not prioritising the demands for funding properly and not auditing the productivity of research institutions. “Crores are spent on cultural complexes. Similar amounts are spent on various research institutions, the output of which is not audited at all,” Samuel said. Diversion of SC-ST funds is another mistake Isaac also continues to make, he added.
 
 Borrowing large amount of money, outside the budget, using special purpose vehicles like KIIFB is a dangerous route, Mary George said. “Centre allows each state to borrow only according to their fiscal capacity, to ensure the sustainable growth. If Kerala government has to borrow above this limit, naturally it should borrow outside the budget as it did through KIIFB and the repayment is done using the tax receipts of the government,” she said.
 
 Lack of austerity is also affecting state’s finances. “While Central ministers have only 16 members in their personal staff, Kerala ministers have 30 each. Similarly, UPSC has 11 members, but Kerala PSC has 22 members,” George pointed out.
 
