PATNA: Dumraon police station SHO Subodh Kumar has been   for security lapses during CM Nitish Kumar’s visit to Nandan village under the Dumraon police station area in   district on Friday.

 DIG (Shahabad range)   suspended Subodh, an inspector rank officer, on the recommendation of Buxar SP   on Saturday night. A group of villagers had pelted the CM’s convoy with stones and bricks at Nandan during his ‘Vikas Sameeksha Yatra’. At least eight policemen, including the SHO and some security personnel were injured in the incident. Altogether 28 persons have been arrested so far in this connection. Seventeen persons were arrested till Saturday. The SHO and other injured police personnel are undergoing treatment at   and Hospital (PMCH). 
 
 Police sources said most of the villagers have fled their homes as they feared harsh police action. Five FIRs have been lodged with the Dumraon police station by different administrative and police officers in which more than 100 persons are named accused and more than 700 unknown suspects.
 
 Sources said more police officials would face the music for intelligence failure. The SP accepted that it was a case of intelligence failure and all district police officials who were responsible for collecting intelligence inputs before the CM’s visit would face the music depending on the outcome of the ongoing enquiry. 
 
 The SP said he has also recommended departmental action against the SHO. “Four persons were arrested from the spot immediately after the stone pelting on Friday. Out of the 28 arrested so far, 10 are women. They were arrested on the basis of video clippings received from various sources,” the SP said. A police team also went to the spot on Sunday for further investigation.
 
 Meanwhile, Patna zonal IG   and Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor returned to the state capital on Sunday morning after conducting a joint inquiry. Sources said they are expected to submit their inquiry report in the next three to four days.
 
 
