KOLKATA: Bidhannagar Police has launched a special WhatsApp group for women residing in  . The group has been created to secure working women and students who can directly inform the Bidhannagar control room, the IC of the local police station and senior officers in case they need help from cops.

 The move comes almost a year-and-a-half after a section of ham radio users moved Lalbazar asking them to proactively use WhatsApp features to pin point the exact location of the victim of a crime.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The move, claimed cops, will help in bringing down reaction time. It will also open a direct channel of interaction with the police. Bidhannagar police now aims to provide similar facilities to other police stations as well. DC (headquarters) Amit Jawalgi said, “The initiative has begun with 50 members. We are planning to expand this number. We shall run a pilot project for a couple of months before we extend the facility to other police stations. The members can also send us videos which can help us improve their security.”
 
 The top brass said it plans to use the “Live Location” feature on WhatsApp to help those in distress. The cops say the plan is simple – the control room will provide mobile numbers to which the location of the victim, along with a sentence explaining the SOS, can be sent.
 
 The end-to-end encrypted feature lets people control who they share their location with and for how long. This will be extremely useful during disasters and crises as help can be provided more effectively and quickly.   from   on Tuesday told mediapersons said, “For women, in unsafe and dangerous situations, it may be a helpful tool for police officials and families, as real-time locations can be shared easily in WhatsApp,” .
 
 In addition to the move by Bidhannangar police, Kolkata police is all set to launch an app that will connect nearby CCTV camerasin a area. This is will help cops to gather evidence in the shortest possible time. The police will also connect with local groups on WhatsApp that is likely to act as their “eyes and ears”. “While this system is already operational unofficially, we are planning to make it more systematic and responsive,” a senior Lalbazar officer said.
 
 
