The last few days, the hot topic of discussion has been  . It isn’t any different on campuses in Chennai. Especially, the students from   (MSE) as they analyse and break down the budget for us — left, right and centre. 
So, what’s it that they say about the focus on education? After the budget, the previous 3% education cess is replaced by a 4% health and education cess. “It’s a good move. I think, it’s targeted at stopping the brain drain in India. Today, many B.Tech graduates pursue Master of Science abroad and therefore, we hardly see any growth even within IITs and NITs. This move in the budget is to promote higher education, particularly in sciences. Also, fellowships been introduced for top 1000 B.Tech students,” says  , a student at MSE. But Prachi adds that lack of focus on subjects other than sciences is a matter of concern. “Take the case of economics. There’s economic survey and budget, but for all that do we have enough economists? Budget should be more than just focusing on sciences,” she says. 
 Another student,  , says that focus on farming is also a good move. She says, “Government wants to increase the farmer’s income. I think it’s a step in the right direction that they’ve increased the minimum support prices (MSP) 50% of the total cost of production.” 
 What about healthcare? “The ‘aha’ thing in the budget was health care scheme. But it’s not clear whether people will be given the insurance premiums, subsidy or the medical reimbursements,” replies Priyansh Minocha, a General Economics student. Fiscal deficit target in the budget is another concern, they say. “It’s 3.3%. But right now, we’re facing a recession and it isn’t good to adhere to a point target. How much more can the government cut down on expenditure? They have already been cutting back on expediture like in subsidies and other things. But you cannot cut back on investment, infrastructure, etc. Instead of a point target, we should have a point range,” elaborates Pranjal, a second-year student.
 
