QUEPEM: The   during Thursday’s thunderstorm hit only a single house, but damaged domestic appliances in several in a ward rightly called Zoglam Vaddo in Igramoll.

 But 30 years ago, a series of lightning grazed, rattled and struck seven houses, etching an unforgettably memory in the minds of locals.
 
 Zoglam Vaddo, which literally translates to ‘lightning ward’, is a small part of Igramoll, a southern suburb of Quepem town. It used to be referred to as Nanatolloi but the nomenclature has almost slipped into history after several lightning strikes.
 
 When lightning struck Carmelina D’Souza’s house on Thursday morning, it brought back a series of flashbacks for some residents. She froze as she saw the sliver of light hit the rear side of her house. Two holes and a cracked slab of the septic tank were evidence the stray bolt had tried to effect entry.
 
 For a place with a history of lightning strikes, slightly louder thunder makes some extremely uneasy. “We tremble every time the thunder gets louder and flashes of lightning brighter,” says Rosy Goes.
 
 Recalling the incident from 1988, Igramoll resident Natolin Gomes says, “I was flung two to three metres on the ground by the impact of the lightning.” In a nearby house, Rosario Fernandes collapsed on the floor unconscious. “There were no burn injuries, but my father just fell down,” says Xavier Fernandes.
 
 Their neighbour, Floriano Goes who was in the kitchen also fell unconscious. “I saw with horror the lightning flash past our kitchen,” says Rosy, his wife. Goes and four others were rushed to hospital in a state of shock. “It was as if the lightning flashed past or through some houses and later hit the other ones. The crashing sound was enough to deafen ears and grip hearts with fright,” she recalls.
 
 While the Fernandes, Goes andGomeshousesweresafe,thelightning hitfour other houses at the end of its trail. “Only the meter box in Fernandes’ house was burnt, but the roofs of the four houses were damaged and the walls sported holes,” Gomes said.
 
 Other episodes have been
 
 mild. Rosy has seen a coconut tree burn in 1985 and a jackfruit tree gutted in 1990. Villagers are not aware of incidents before 1850 which was when PiedadeFernandes, ancestors of Rosario Fernandes, built the first house in Zoglam Vaddo. Strangely, the Fernandes family was called Zogil–lightning.
 
 “During the rainy season, some villagers are scared to spend the night in Zoglam Vaddo and walk to their relatives’ houses in Igramoll,” says Cristev, another local resident. Lightning usually strikes open spaces and tall structures. But local residents are baffled over the incidents of lightning here. “The government should install some protective infrastructure for us,” she says.
 
