NASHIK: In an unforfunate turn of events, a criminal died after he came under the rear wheel of a truck which he was attempting to rob, at   between Jaulke and  .

 The deceased was accompanied by two others including a minor. While the minor was sent to the government observation home, the other suspect was in police custody till Monday.
 
 The deceased identified as Sham Atmaram Sahane (18), a resident of Odha taluka, hatched a plan to rob a truck driver with his associates   (25) from Talegaon, Trimbak taluka and a 17-year-old youth from Kalvi, Nashik.
 
 At 1.30am on Saturday, the trio, who were on a bike, saw a container on the road between Sayyad Pimpri and Jaulke Phata. The truck driver was carrying grapes from Vinchur in   taluka to Mumbai. While the minor was riding the bike, Rajendra Nimbekar and Sahane were the pillion riders.
 
 With the intention of robbing, Sahane started threatening truck driver Srikant Hande and ordered him to stop the truck. Sensing danger, Hande kept driving and eventually sped the truck towards the Mumbai- Agra highway. Inspector Rajendra Shirsath of Dindori police station said, "Hande's aim was to reach the highway as early as possible to get rid of the trio. He thought that the three will not bother him on the busy highway."
 
 With Hande not heeding their threats, the trio overtook the truck and one of them flung a stone at the truck. A windshield of the truck broke. Hande continued speeding his truck towards the highway.
 
 Later, Sahane climbed the running truck from the cleaner-side and abused him. He ordered Hande to stop the vehicle or face dire consequences. However, in his pursuit, Sahane lost his grip over the truck and fell down. He was crushed under a rear wheel.
 
 Inspector Shirsath said that the truck driver on reaching the highway near Jaulke Phata, along the Mumbai-Agra highway, saw a police van and narrated his ordeal. Police then reached the spot and nabbed the other two.
 
 Shirsath said that a robbery case has been registered with Dindori police.
 
 The Dindori police said that Sahane also has cases registered against him with the Adgaon police. The case is being investigated further.
 
