NAGPUR: Within a span of six days, senior academician Dr   made a second attempt on Wednesday to save himself from imminent embarrassment from Nagpur University’s stringent action in an alleged case of plagiarism.

 After returning lifetime achievement   on February 16,   posted a letter to   conveying his decision to surrender   in Gandhian Thoughts, which came under scanner in the plagiarism case.
 
 NU senior officials confirmed receiving the letter but clarified that like his award, Mishra cannot surrender the diploma. While the management council has decided that the award won’t be taken back till the action is pending in plagiarism case, the fate of Mishra’s diploma would be decided by Board of Examinations and Evaluation on February 28.
 
 Mishra’s move created a flutter in the university and academic circles. While his supporters suggested that the former senator should return all his other degrees too in protest, NU officials said even if diploma is returned, Mishra cannot evade action. “Plagiarism is an offence. He will have to face action,” officials said.
 
 Vice-chancellor SP Kane has been asserting that he would be cancelling Mishra’s diploma and before doing that the NU would also be taking back lifetime achievement award conferred on the heavyweight academician in 2016. Kane has also dubbed Mishra’s move to surrender the award as ‘gimmick’.
 
 The three-decade-old case resurfaced in November last year after Mishra started questioning decisions of Kane and Pro-VC Pramod Yeole in his complaints to governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao, who is also chancellor.
 
 A decorated academician, Mishra has held several statutory posts and dominated the university affairs for nearly three decades. 
 
 In 1991, then academic council member   had alleged that Mishra had used unfair means to complete his thesis in the year 1987. The varsity then set up   Committee to inquire into the matter. In 1992, the committee submitted its report which stated that Mishra had copied from RV Rao's 1969 book word for word. On October 9, 1992, the then management council approved the Ratnaparkhi report. However, Mishra had challenged the report’s finding in civil court. On November 24, 2013, the court rejected Mishra's claim, upholding Ratnaparkhi Committee report.
 
 Hearing in the case was adjourned on Wednesday.
 
 
