LUCKNOW: Following the trend of  , under increased vigil,   that began on Monday across the state witnessed absenteeism of examinees registering a spike on   itself.

 The introduction of technological vigil marked a major advancement in   in UP when students, for the first time, wrote their annual examination under CCTV watch.
 
 UP Board of Madrassa Education (UPBME) officials claimed that absenteeism had registered a rise as compared to last year by around 10%. A total of 2,73,027 students from over 19,000 madrassas across UP had to appear in their annual examination. Officials claimed that strict measures like  , flying squads at four levels —examination centre, district, UPBME and directorate — had deterred majority of ‘non-serious’ students.
 
 
 
 Last year, around 15-17% students were absent, but this year absenteeism rose to 22-25%. In the first shift, 1.35 lakh students had to appear but 29,000 students were absent. The measures for keeping copying at bay and ensuring transparency have led to rise in number of absent students,” said UPBME registrar, Rahul Gupta.
 
 As per the UPBME update at 9pm, 41,064 students had stayed away from the exam in the two shifts. “There is possibility of this figure going up to 45,000 by the time we get last update,” added Gupta.
 
 The UP board examinations conducted earlier in February-March had also seen a high absenteeism with over 12 lakh students of the total 66 lakh enrolled giving annual exams a miss.
 
 In fact, the number of student registrations for madrassa board examination had also seen a drop of around 98,000 this year. When TOI did a reality check in Lucknow, while majority exam centres had functional CCTVs, Madrassa Sultan-ul-Madaris on Jagat Narain Road was found without any CCTV cameras while few cameras at Maharaja Agrasen Inter College were dysfunctional.
 
 Managing the controls of CCTV cameras with a computer mouse and holding a microphone in his hand, Sudham Chand Chandwani, principal of Baba Thakur Das Inter College said, “This is the first time that such vigil is being kept and it has resulted in higher absenteeism.
 
 The examinations for Munshi and Maulvi (equivalent to class X), Aalim (class XII), Kamil (graduation) and Fazil (postgraduation) will continue till April 28.
 
 
