Wednesday evening witnessed Mumbaikars thronging the iconic Liberty Cinema for the opening of the ninth edition of  . The five-day LGBTQ film fest, which will end on May 27, will screen 140 movies from across 45 countries. True to the theme of the fest this year — ‘Together with Pride’ — people from across the country attended it. 

 
  Celeb attendees included theatre doyen  , actors   and  , author-mythologist Devdutt Pattanaik, equal rights activist Harrish Iyer and stand-up comedian  .  , the festival’s director, said, “Many have been living deep inside the closet, but I can see that the doors have almost opened up now. There have been several petitions in the recent past and I hope that our festival has been instrumental in bringing about these changes and changing mindsets.” 
 
 Dolly Thakore, who has been a part of the festival since its inception, added, “It’s lovely to see newer faces and talent each year. There’s far more variety and support now and it’s amazing to see people come out and talk about their sexuality.” Several celebs, including Jayati and Sid, are a part of the fest’s jury. Jayati said, “I’ve wanted to be a part of this since 2011, but never got the time due to work commitments. I am excited about watching so many movies. More than anything, these films are about relationships and I’m glad to see their drift towards mainstream.”
 
 Mantra, who was one of the hosts, added humour to the sultry evening with his anecdotes. Recalling how he wanted to attend his first year of the festival in a towel, Mantra said, “I know this is the only place where I will be accepted the way I am without being judged. But of course, a towel would have been way too risqué.” A tandava-style performance by   and a contemporary dance act by a troupe named Color Positive added energy to the night. Navin also tickled the audience’s funny bone by narrating his experiences while coming out about his sexuality. 
 
 
  
 It was interesting to see people from different parts of the country attending the event. Sushil Rathi, an MBA student from Rajasthan, has been a regular at the fest for the last five years. He said, “Over the years, I have watched some amazing movies from all over the world at KASHISH. I am looking forward to many more this time around as well.” Vishal Ghatge, a regulatory affairs officer from Pune, took a break from his job to make it to the event. He noted, “I love the vibe at film festivals and this is an important event for the community. Also, this is not just about the LGBTQ community, but also about allies and cinema enthusiasts. I am waiting for the day when there’s no label and it’s just another film festival.”
 
 
