While most people think one child is a handful, 52-year-old   Bala Panda has mothered 23. She was in her thirties when she signed up with the non-profit SOS Children’s Villages as a foster mother, and was given the task of caring for 8-10 kids at a time.

 
 “At first, I used to worry about how I would care for 10 kids, get them ready, pack 10 tiffins every morning, and rig up meals,” she admits. Twenty-two years in, she no longer finds motherhood challenging, merely rewarding. “My children are my life. I share in their happiness and pain,” says Manju, who runs a colourful four-bedroom home in  , a SOS village in  . She proudly shows off a Mother’s Day card from her college-going son who won’t be able to spend the day with her. On the card is a house with windows that open to reveal the words,“Happy Mother’s Day, Mom. I love you.”
 
 There are certain challenges to fostering, due to the varied backgrounds and experiences that the parentless children may have had before being placed in her care. “I have to give more attention to the troubled ones but the other kids understand and say, ‘It’s okay, mummy. Give him more time’.” She believes in the more gentle approach of talking through things, rather than using anger to improve behaviour. “That way, they actually learn,” says Manju, who has chosen to stay single.
 
 While she cites her mother as her primary influence, she does admit to certain differences in parenting styles. “The changes come when your goals for your children are different. I want my kids to grow up to be someone. The way I was raised was different—it was to be a good wife and mother.” Many of her kids have successful careers, among them a manager of a five-star hotel and an airline stewardess. “I want my kids to do well in life. I feel so proud when my daughters start to earn the same amount as their husbands.”
 
 The life of a foster mother is one of change, where Manju herself is the only constant. “It is emotional when they leave, but they never really leave. When they’re in college, they come see me all the time.” A grandmother of 13, she often visits her kids who live across the country. 
 
 As her current set of eight kids, between the ages of 7 and 17, return home from school, they ponder over their favourite thing about their mother. The consensus: her generosity and selflessness is second only to her delicious chowmein.
 
