CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court has slapped a cost of Rs 50,000 on the   ( ) for denying interview opportunity to a candidate of draftsman’s post on “wanton and fallacious” grounds.

 Justice   passed these orders while allowing a petition filed by Raj Pal, a resident of Mahendergarh, who had applied for the post of assistant draftsman in the state town and country planning department. The selection was to be made through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC).
 
 The petitioner was not called for the interview despite the fact that his marks were above the last candidate called for the interview. His case was rejected on the ground that of the two certificates of experience produced by the petitioner from ‘Jaiswal & Associates’, one bears the rubber stamp of the firm while the other does not.
 
 After examining the record, Justice   observed that “even if the one bearing rubber stamp is accepted and the other ignored, the result would be the same.” They both certify that the petitioner worked in the organization from as an Architectural Assistant, observed the court.
 
 During the hearing of the case, the HSSC took another ground of rejection that the certificates do not disclose the registration number of the firm of architects run in the name and style of ‘Jaiswal & Associates’. On this, the HC observed that law does not require an architect and his associates should form a company or a firm which is registered under the regulatory laws.
 
 Holding the decision of the commission debarring the petitioner in the interview process, to be an “utterly perverse and not sustainable,” Justice Raina ordered the HSSC to interview the petitioner.
 
 In his detailed order, released on January 10, Justice Raina further observed, “Since the ground taken for ignoring the petitioner is wholly wanton and fallacious, the HSSC is directed to pay Rs 50,000 as costs to the petitioner at the time of interview for needlessly compelling him to approach this court and waste its time.”
 
 Justice Raina, however, made it clear that the cost of Rs 50,000 can be recovered by the commission from those who took the impugned decision without any application of mind. HC also clarified that in case of any doubt, the genuineness of petitioner’s certificate can be verified, if petitioner is finally selected.
 
 
