COIMBATORE: Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday unveiled the Centre’s plan to set up a defence manufacturing innovation centre in the city and said she has asked the secretary of defence production to sanction Rs 20 crore for the purpose. The innovation centre is proposed to be set up at   here.

 This has been a long pending demand from the micro, small and medium entrepreneurs (MSMEs) in the city. Many of them are in the business of manufacturing and supplying parts for defence purposes. Once the centre is set up, Codissia can communicate the requirements and demand of the defence sector to the MSMEs.
 
 “Codissia will communicate the sector's problems to MSMEs, which can then develop solutions. If the sector finds it convincing, it would ask them to produce the product and supply,” the defence minister added. 
 
 Speaking at an interactive session with the representatives of MSMEs at Codissia, Sitharaman said this was just a beginning. “We will continue in such a way that you (entrepreneurs) are able to have common testing facilities, testing labs and trial grounds. So that you can demonstrate your products to the defence sector and ask them to test,” she added.
 
 The minister said in today’s scenario, there was no need for a mother unit for MSMEs to develop. “We have to outgrow such realities. A conglomerate of MSMEs can break the myth that only big firms and corporates can make it big,” she said.
 
 Pointing out that several players from across the state have been manufacturing and supplying products for defence sector, Sitharaman said the ministry of defence, however, wants to handhold and develop the industries in Coimbatore belt.
 
 At the session titled ‘defence park in Coimbatore under make in India programme for the growth of MSMEs’, entrepreneurs asked for a defence expo in the city to understand the sector’s requirements, besides an online portal for information pertaining to manufacturing and procurement for the sector.
 
 Replying to this, Sitharaman said an interactive session with representatives of MSMEs would be held in Chennai on January 18 and 19, where procurement officers and specialists would provide inputs on defence requirements and procurements. She, however, promised an online data bank on defence sector demand and supply.
 
 She said there was a lot of defence requirement for small arms and the state has the potential and skill to provide them. “The state has the natural setup to manufacture spare parts and armaments for all three forces - army, navy and air force,” she said.
 
 Earlier, state minister for municipal administration S P Velumani had handed over a petition to Sitharaman seeking to set up a defence park in the city.
 
 State   general secretary  , secretary to department of defence production   and Codissia president   were present at the function. 
 
 
