LUCKNOW: In a special exhibition in 2010 at the Museum for Islamic Art in Berlin, a painting showed a man dressed in   aristocracy watching what the description says is ‘nautch girls’.

 Set in 1780 Awadh, the painting could pass off easily as that of a Nawabi ruler in British India.
 
 On closer examination, however, one would know that the admirer of the dancers was a Frenchman called Antoine-Louis Henri de Polier, who was deputed into the survey department of Nawab Shujaud- Daula.
 
 
 
  
 
 During his stay in Awadh in the 1770s, Polier was to ensure regular supply of news to the East India Company about the region’s political developments. Fascinated by India, he adopted the lifestyle of a local aristocrat. A man of versatile tastes and skills, he read many Indian scriptures in Sanskrit.
 
 He also collected rare Sanskrit, Persian and Arabic manuscripts.
 
 Letters he wrote in Persian also talk of his two Indian wives whom he had to leave behind in India before his return in 1788.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 In the field of art, Polier made considerable contribution to the Indian miniature painting in Awadh. Mihr Chand, a gifted local artist, created a number of notable artworks for the Frenchman.
 
 One of them being that of Shuja-ud-Daula and his 10 sons. A blend of local and European art, the paintings under the guidance of Polier had detailed instructions from him regarding theme, technique and colour.
 
 Replicas of both the nautch girl and Nawab paintings are part of the exhibiton that socio-cultural organization   will set up at the   Festival.
 
 The theme for the event, held every year in the first week of February, is Awadhi-Francisi taalluqaat or the Awadhi and French connection.
 
 
 
 
 The other artwork replicas which are part of the exhibition include representations of the Awadh stay of Jean Baptiste Gentil, a French Army colonel who served under Shuja-ud-Daula from 1774 to 1786.
 
 A close friend of the Nawab, Gentil was bestowed with many Persian titles by the Nawab.
 
 
 
  
 
 He even trained around 500 French troops, which comprised deserters, for the Nawab.
 
 Gentil also made a collection of manuscripts, medals and arms which he took to France with him.
 
 The paintings, now collected in the Victoria and   in London, are categorised as the Gentil album and are distinctly French in style and created by artists like Nivasi Lal and  .
 
 “These paintings were a beautiful discovery during our research. We were amazed at how Awadh—daily life, nature—has been depicted so intricately. The best part is that people of Lucknow will get to see these paintings when they walk into the exhibition as not all people may visit the museums they are in. It’s a whole new perspective, apart from Mughal art,” says  , the organizer.
 
 Apart from these, replicas of paintings from the magnificent collection of Claude Martin will also be on display, says Nimra Rizvi, the curator of the festival, adding that close to 30 paintings will be put up for visitors to appreciate.
 
