 wore a devastating look on Saturday after heavy rain and squall destroyed all makeshift arrangements at Lord Sri Rama Kalyanam venue, leaving 4 dead and 31 injured a day before. Officials said they received an alert about heavy rain from the India Meteorological Department only after the downpour started.

 While the Every year, the celebrations and rush of devotees continues for week after Sri Rama Kalyanam, but this year, it is a different story altogether.
 
 Following the  , chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu stayed overnight in Kadapa. He visited the injured persons in Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences on Friday night. The CM has announced an ex gratia of Rs 15 lakh to the families of the deceased, and Rs 3 lakh to those injured severely.
 
 The CM conducted a review meeting with district officials on Saturday morning. He slammed them for not taking adequate measures to tackle the situation during and after the gusty winds and rain. He also found fault with the police for closing down shops all along from Kadapa airport to R&B guesthouse, and from there to Vontimitta which is about 26 km. 
 
 He lashed out at the officials for ignoring safety measures when weather alerts were given in surrounding places.
 
 The officials, however, claim they had little information about the rain and squall. District revenue officer of Kadapa, M Babaiah, said that they received an alert from APSDMS about lightning strikes at some places in Kadapa, but Vontimitta did not figure in that alert. 
 
 “We received another alert from India Meteorological Department (IMD) around 7 pm, but by that time the devastation had already taken place.
 
 IMD director, YK Reddy, told TOI that they had sent the alert for both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for two days on Friday evening at about 6:30 pm. He said these kind of summer squalls cannot be predicted as to where they will occur. “We can predict them before 24 hours in larger area such as isolated places in Rayalaseema region,” he said.
 
 YK Reddy said that it was only an intense spell of rain in Vontimitta and not a cloud burst. These rains are common during the summers, he said.
 
 
