NEW DELHI: Observing that it is not a case of simple assault but of aggression towards the top bureaucrat of Delhi, a sessions   on Tuesday dismissed the   plea of AAP MLA  , arrested for allegedly assaulting chief secretary Anshu Prakash.

 Special judge Anju Bajaj Chandna said she can’t ignore the fact that the lawmaker — an MLA from Deoli constituency — had openly violated the dignity of a 56-year-old public servant who was “honestly discharging duties.”
 
 “This is not the case of a simple assault. The aggression shown by the accused towards the top bureaucrat, that too at the house of the chief minister, itself demonstrates that applicant has no respect for law and he can go to any extent to serve their interest,” the court noted, while refusing to release Jarwal on bail.
 
 It added that such an assault is “would create fear in the minds of other officers and would shake the confidence of people in law enforcement machinery.”
 
 Jarwal had sought relief mainly on the ground he is young and was recently married, but the court saw no grounds to exercise its discretion in his favour, observing that the situation could not be more alarming when lawmakers do not respect the rule of law.
 
 The special judge said if released on bail, there was a possibility of Jarwal trying to influence witnesses or tamper with evidence, as he hold a position of authority.
 
 While dismissing the plea, the court noted that “the complainant Anshu Prakash has been specific and categorical in narrating the circumstances about the incident and same is substantiated by his medical report. Adviser V K Jain has also given his statement on oath confirming the allegations.”
 
 The court said that assaulting a public servant in discharge of his duties was a serious offence and the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case made it more serious.
 
 “The threats extended by the applicant combined with attitude of aggressive character towards public servant holding high position, is totally unacceptable,” it said. 
 
 Jarwal’s wife and some other family members, who were present in the courtroom, later said they would move the high court.
 
 A magistrate court had on February 23 refused to grant bail to the two legislators Jarwal and Amanatullah Khan saying the matter cannot be treated in “a casual and routine manner” considering they were “history-sheeters”.
 
 
