CHANDIGARH: The residents of the city won’t have to take fresh online appointments, in case they forget to bring some document or any minor anomaly crops up while depositing their   to the registration and   authority ( ). 

 In a significant move, the orders have been issued that in case of lack of any document, the RLA will give the applicant time to deposit their document on the same day. He or she will not have to take a fresh appointment any more to get his work done.
 
 Since the RLA has adopted the method of the online appointment since past few months, it has been noticed that quite often people forget to bring some or the other document required for verification or come with incomplete forms. Other types of minor anomalies also crop up often. Earlier, the residents had to take the fresh online appointments for these problems. This took them six to seven days more to get their next turn. But, now in such cases, they would be catered on the same day based on their already-taken online appointment.
 
 “We have issued orders to the staff of RLA not to force people for fresh appointments, in case they forget to bring some documents or for any other minor anomalies in the form crop up. Instead, we asked them give them some time on the same day to complete the form or bring the required document. The decision has been taken to facilitate people coming to RLA for different services,” said RLA in-charge  .
 
 Significantly to get the works done, there are two processes in the RLA now. First, the applicant will have to take online appontment for the work, like for getting the licence, registration cards, transfer of vehicles among others. After the online registration, the applicant gets the date to come to the RLA office to fill in the forms by showing required documents. The RLA staff then go through the documents, scan them and upload the same.
 
 According to records, thousands of residents of the city visit the RLA office daily. Out of them, around 600 come only for preparation of licences and registration cards.
 
 
