CHANDIGARH: Under pressure from general public for doing away with the fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA), the   has asked the   (JERC) to reconsider levying of the charges. 

 Following direction of the commission, the department is levying FPPCA charges since 2014 on all the category of consumers except agriculture. The charges are revised every quarter leading to heavy variation in power bills. On an average, the charge ranging between Rs 1 and Rs 2.50 per unit are added in the existing power tariff. Since the introduction, the FPPCA charges has been bone of contention between the department and consumers, who have been raising questions on method used for calculating the charges. During public hearing session held by JERC in March, residents had demanded to replace the same with a fixed surcharge.
 
 Terming levying of FPPCA charges unfair,   (CCI) in November had written to the Prime Minister for doing away with the charges.
 
 
  
 
 Talking to TOI,   superintending engineer M P Singh said they have requested the commission to take a call on the provision of FPPCA charges. "Ever since FPPCA was introduction, consumers have been up in arms demanding its waiver," said MP Singh. The commission will take a call on the issue after taking feedback from the residents in public hearing session scheduled to be held in March. The electricity department caters to 2.15 lakh consumers of nine categories. The majority of power is consumed by domestic consumers followed by commercial category.  , president of Chamber of Chandigarh Industries, said that the commission should do away with the FPPCA charge as it put unwanted burden on consumers. "FPPCA puts department at advantage and consumers at disadvantage," said Manglani.
 
 Ever since their introduction, FPPCA charges have emerged as a boon for the electricity department. The charges enable the department to recover their difference between approved cost of power and actual cost of power purchased. Thanks to the charges, the department, which was struggling with losses in past, has been cash surplus in last two financial years.
 
 FPPCA is rates of fuel and power purchase cost adjustment, a charge added on a per-unit basis to each power bill over and above the regular tariff, is the difference between per unit actual cost of power purchase and per unit approved cost of power purchase. Electricity department generates bills for domestic customers bi-monthly and commercial monthly.
 
 
