BENGALURU: In a  , a   has come forward to break the   along   so roots can access  .

 Volunteers from Save Green, a city-based NGO, have so far removed concrete bases of 25-30 trees in Thippasandra and Jeevan Bima Nagar.
 
 
 A fortnight ago, when they started clearing concrete around trees on roads, there were mixed reactions. While some wondered if they had sought permission, others supported their initiative. The team also got calls from many to replicate the move in their localities.
 
 “Water will not enter the roots of a tree if the base is concretised. The civic agency hasn’t bothered to make its work tree-friendly while concretising footpaths and roads,” said Murugeshpalya resident Hemanth K, who spearheads the activities of Save Green.
 
 The NGO’s volunteers have been removing posters pasted or nailed on trees in the city since February 2016. “We have requested private organisations that display ads on trees to refrain from doing so,” says Hemanth.
 
 The idea came when a volunteer from Sahakaranagar sent photographs of trees with bases covered with concrete on the NGO’s WhatsApp group. “That’s when we brainstormed on what could be done. We started working in March in Thippasandra area. We got requests from Koramangala residents who saw our work on social media,” said Megha Shri, a volunteer with Save Green, who lives in Channapatana.
 
 The activity has caught the attention of many onlookers. Dinesh Chandra, an IT professional from Marathahalli, was surprised to see the team deconcretising the tree base near Jeevan Bima Nagar recently. “I liked their idea and will join them next week,” he said. The volunteers make sure they remove the debris and ensure it is taken away by BBMP trucks.
 
 New Thippasandra corporator Shilpa Reddy said, “During civic work, BBMP labourers tarred the space around trees in some places. It has been communicated to them that a one-foot space must be left around trees for water to percolate.”
 
 BBMP officials in the horticulture wing said they are not aware of the initiative. “Road construction is done at zonal level. The general instruction is that the tree base mustn’t be tarred. This is a positive initiative by the NGO. But when they take up such work, it’s better to keep zonal officers concerned in the loop,” said a senior official.
 
 
