NEW DELHI: The US is "engaging extensively" with Pakistan to push the Taliban towards accepting talks with the Ashraf Ghani government in Afghanistan while also coordinating with India on policies and actions on the emerging diffi culties in the Maldives. 

 Speaking to TOI,  , deputy assistant secretary and lead official in the US state department in charge of South Asia, said, "We believe Pakistan has a unique influence in being able to shape the response of the Taliban to the unprecedented offer of peace and negotiation by President Ashraf Ghani during the Kabul process. We are intensively engaging with the Pakistan government through civilian and military channels." 
 
 India and US, she said, are coordinating their actions on the Maldives, after President Yameen "gutted" all notions of democratic behaviour. The US has already put out "toughly worded" advisories and more steps are contemplated in the coming months. The coordination efforts, Wells said, came as a result of "detailed discussions between the foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale and defence secretary Sanjay Mitra and senior US officials in Washington recently". 
 
 G oing by the US strategy in the   theatre, it's clear the US will continue to squeeze Pakistan while talking to it to get the Taliban to the negotiating table. The Taliban has maintained complete silence after the offer was made publicly by Ghani during the Kabul process, which was welcomed by all countries at the meeting. Earlier, the Taliban had offered talks with the US directly. But this was felt to be undermining the legitimate government in Kabul. 
 
 W ells said, "I had excellent contacts with the Pakistan government. It's clear that the only party refusing to engage is the Taliban. That they have not yet responded to Ghani's offer reflects surprise on the scope of the offer and some dissension among some of the commanders. " 
 
 Wells said there is a "window of opportunity" for few weeks to pressure the Taliban to come to talks, before the "spring offensive" or the violence in the summer kicks off. "We want to continue the military efforts, continue to close down the sanctuaries or scope of sanctuaries, continue to pursue even more rigorous counter-terrorism and anti-money laundering provisions" in Pakistan, she said. The intention is to close Pakistan's own room for manoeuvre, which it has traditionally used to play off the US and Afghanistan while keeping their support for the Taliban and other terror groups intact. "We are pushing the religious messaging from the Pakistani and Afghan sides as well as the Indonesians," Wells said. 
 
 Where does India fit in? India, she said is playing an "important role" to stabilise Afghanistan economically. "Opening up the Chahbahar port, making it a conduit for Afghanistan. This is extremely important for Afghanistan at a time when trade with some of the other countries on its borders have not been as good." 
 
 
