Imphal: The last-minute signing of Australian   by current   leaders   FC shows how important his services could be for the debutants when they are pushing for the championship after securing their place in the proposed Super Cup alongside the Indian Super League (ISL) sides.

 Landing in Imphal late on Saturday afternoon, after a long journey from his hometown Melbourne, with a one-night stopover in Kolkata, Ward sounded confident of making an impact with the Gift Raikhan-coached side.
 
 “I know they have signed me with Super Cup in mind but since I could come here early, I will also get a chance to play in the last two matches of the I-League as well. Good for me. I was looking to get some match practice as soon as possible. After finishing my stint with Bentleigh Greens (in National Premier Leagues Victoria in 2017-18 season), I was training with Perth Glory (his former club) for some time now and was looking for some opportunity when NEROCA happened,” he said.
 
 However, it will be interesting to see what kind of impact Ward makes after sitting out for two seasons from 2015-17 with Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) tear and not getting any match time with Bentleigh Greens. Ward, in fact, thought of retirement after the long injury layoff.
 
 Asked if there’s any pressure on him to perform as he has been signed to give NEROCA the final push in the last couple of games, the Aussie explained: “I have played at the top level before — no disrespect to Indian football – so I know what it takes to perform under pressure. As a professional player, I am confident to handle that pressure and deliver. Mentally and physically, I am fully fit to play tomorrow (Sunday) and I am confident to make an impact with NEROCA,” said the attacking midfielder.
 
 Asked how difficult it will be to get adjusted to the situation here in India, Ward said: “The weather is not that bad here, it’s pretty similar to that in Australia. So I don’t think it will be a big problem. I will try to cope with the situation as fast as possible. As far as the adjustment with my teammates is concerned, I might watch the proceedings from the bench in the first half tomorrow to get a hang of their style of play. And for Super Cup, we will get about a month’s time to prepare so it will be better for me.”
 
 He might have signed for the Imphal-based side but Ward has some old connections in the ISL side Chennaiyin FC. The former   and Brighton & Hove Albion (on loan from QPR) player has played under the present CFC coach John Gregory, the then QPR coach, and has shared the dressing room with CFC goalkeeping coach Tony Warner at Wellington Phoenix in New Zealand. However, he is also friends with NEROCA teammate Aryn Williams and Mohun Bagan player Cameron Watson.
 
 
