COIMBATORE: The RS Puram police station (B-2) in the city won the ministry of home affairs’ trophy for the best police station in the country, in the category of Smart police stations, on Saturday. Director general of police TK Rajendran and station inspector T Jothi received the trophy from union home minister   at the ‘All India Conference of Director Generals/Inspector Generals of Police -2017’ held at Takenpur in Gwalior,  .

 “It’s a matter of pride for the   police. We plan to set up such police stations in all sub-divisions in Coimbatore city. We will upgrade many of our city police stations also,” said a senior police officer.
 
 While   police station in   ranked in the second place, Gudumba police station in Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh nabbed the third place.
 
 Lucknow SSP Deepak Kumar told TOI that the Gudumba station is fully computerised and citizen-friendly. “The police station covers 80% urban and 20% rural areas. We conduct grievance day on every Saturday. People even petition us about electricity and drinking water problems. Our officers, who are in contact with the officials of other departments, sort out the issues,” he said.
 
 Two months ago, a committee had visited the RS Puram station for assessment. It inspected the facility and checked parameters such as rate of recovery of property, cleanliness and rainwater harvesting.
 
 The station has an exclusive room for visitors, a waiting hall, investigation room, a receptionist cabin, treated drinking water and a ramp for the disabled. The all-woman police (east) has set up a crèche, which the petitioners accompanied by children can make use of.
 
 On the recommendations of the home minister at the director generals conference in 2015, it was decided to identify the top 10 police stations in the country. The performance measurement parameters were based on the Rajasthan police model. The model has 19 parameters, including enforcement of special and local laws, execution of warrants, property cases detection, recovery, enforcement of motor vehicle act, reduction of road accidents and convictions. 
 
 Tamil Nadu had also recommended the Anna Nagar (K4) police station in Chennai city. The station has been ranked fifth.
 
 
