When Saborni, a 27-year-old microbiologist, was about to tie the knot, she told her cousin to gift her a   jewellery set that had caught her fancy. “Silver is no longer meant for college students. Yes, it’s less expensive than gold but it’s classy in its own way. And now, with the emergence of so many online retail sites, silver jewellery designs have undergone a massive change. I saw this beautiful set online and it was priced at Rs15,000. And I told my cousin, who had asked me what I wanted for my shaadi, to get it for me. It’s smart and I can wear it for office parties or even when am going out on a date with my husband.”
 
 Saborni is not alone. An increasing number of young women in Agra, be it working professionals, students or homemakers, are now opting for silver jewellery. While silver has always been budget-friendly, the new range of designs, a changing lifestyle and an evolving fashion sense have all contributed to the popularity of this white metal. 
 
  
  Shubhangi Pasricha (right) and Kratika Garg go gaga over silver neck pieces 
 
 
  
 
 Nishika Bansal, a newly-wed and a resident of Kamla Nagar, says, “When everyone was gifting and giving me gold jewellery at my wedding, I decided to buy silver for myself as that would add something new to my jewellery collection. And I am really happy about the choice that I made. I can wear my silver for so many occasions. I can carry it off on my date nights with smart attires or wear the heavier pieces while attending weddings.” 
 
 Nishika adds, “After marriage, I have to go and meet some relative or the other almost every second day. And silver really comes as a welcome change, it breaks the monotony of gold for me!”
 Ashna Agarwal, a software developer and resident of  , says, “After my marriage, my mother-in-law insisted that I wear jewellery every time. But wearing gold to work every day was too gaudy for my choice. It was then that I started wearing silver jewellery. It felt much classier and comfortable to wear at work and went well with my western outfits.”
 
  
  
 
 Shubhangi Pasricha, a resident of Khandari who’s pursuing English honours, says, “My parents become very apprehensive when I wear gold jewellery as they fear that I might lose the expensive ornaments. So silver jewellery is a safe option for me. I wear a silver chain and earrings to college everyday. It looks good and goes with both traditional and western outfits.”
 Roli Rastogi, a homemaker and a resident of Kamla Nagar, says, “The best part about silver jewellery is that unlike the excessively expensive gold jewellery, you don’t have to worry about keeping it in lockers or in banks. Also, you can wear them whenever you want.”
 
 Neha Khatri, a sales personnel and resident of Balkeshwar, says, “Since I often come home late from work, I constsantly worry about my jewellery being snatched at night. And I can’t wear artificial jewellery, I get rashes on my skin. So silver is just right for me.”
 
  
  Kratika Garg (left) and Somya Bhargava find oxidized silver jewellery perfect to go with all type of outfits 
 
 
 
 Pulkit Gupta, a silver jewellery store owner at  , says, “Earlier, silver was used only for gifting purposes, especially silver coins. But, now the use of silver has evolved and people are wearing it as different jewellery items.”
 
  Somya Bhargava, a management student and resident of Dayalbagh, says, “I am a jewellery person and I really like the contemporary designs that are available only in silver. I order different ornaments like toe rings, finger rings and anklets almost every month.”
 
 Shikha Garg, a jewellery designer from  , says, “Earlier, silver was only used for making payals and bichiyas as people thought it’s inauspicious to wear gold on feet. But, the use of silver has evolved with time. We now have silver jewellery made from sterling silver which is 92.5% pure. Silver, combined with semi-precious stones like crystals, quartz, moon stone, amethyst, onyx and garnet, make for excellent jewellery base and is popular among Agrawallahs of all ages.”
 
  
  
 
 Phalguni Garg, a college student, says, “Gold ornaments look gaudy and don’t go with all your outfits. Also, while gold jewellery is mostly worn in weddings, silver jewellery, that is comparatively lighter, can be worn daily.”
 
 Kratika Garg, a commerce graduate and a resident of  , says, “I prefer silver jewellery over gold because, apart from being economical, it is available in wide range of designs.”
 
 
 Sakshi Agarwal, a PhD student from   and a resident of  , says, “Silver jewellery makes for a great gift. It is budget-friendly and looks really good. I bought a pendant set for just `1,000 for my friend on her birthday.”
 
  
  
 
  –Manika Singhal
 
