Edited: 375 words Tirunelveli: Tensed moments prevailed at the MGR statue in Kokkirakulam near Tirunelveli district collectorate on the 101st birthday celebration of former chief minister MG Ramachandran, on Wednesday. There was heated exchange of words and mild push and pull between supporters of the ruling AIADMK faction and TTV Dinakaran supporters.  At one point TTV Dinakaran supporters tore banners with pictures of chief minister Edappadi K Palanisami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, which was tied close to the statue. Police said that TTV Dinakaran supporters were supposed to be at the venue to garland the statue at 10 am, while the other faction was to be there at 10.30 am. But both the factions reached the place at 10.30 am. There was an argument between the two factions on who would garland the statue first. Dinakaran supporters argued that they had got police permission for garlanding first, the other faction argued that the former were late and that it was time for them to garland the statue. Supporters of Dinakaran then garlanded the statue after tearing the banner of the chief minister and deputy chief minister. The other faction then tied the banner once again after the Dinakaran faction left and then garlanded the statue. The incident affected traffic at the busy junction for some time, before the issue was settled amicably.  Inset: Prisoners Disappointed Delay in release of prisoners with good conduct who have completed more than 10 years, disappointed prisoners at the Palayamkottai central prison. However, they are hopeful of getting released as announced by the CM at Dindigul last week. Prison officials said that there are around 700 convicts in the Palayamkottai central prison, of whom nearly 600 are life convicts. More than 300 life prisoners have completed more than 10 years jail term. Around 200 have completed over 14 years. Families of the prisoners who had come to the prison early on Wednesday morning to receive them returned disappointed. Celebration AIADMK cadre celebrated MGR’s 101 birth anniversary by garlanding his portraits at their party and trade union offices and autorickshaws stands affiliated to the party at Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and a few places in Kanyakumari district. Songs praising the actor, from his films and his speeches were played in the public address system.