GUWAHATI: The apex body of the state's Vaishnavite Sattras (monasteries), Asom   ( ), has expelled top office-bearer of the socio-cultural organization Kusum Mahanta from the post of general secretary on Saturday for speaking in favour of granting Indian citizenship to Bangladeshi immigrants. 

 Protests erupted in several parts of the state after Mahanta endorsed the Centre's proposed move to grant citizenship to immigrants from minority communities of Bangladesh during the joint parliamentary committee's ( ) hearing on the proposed Citizenship (Amendment) Bill in New Delhi on Tuesday. 
 
 Going against the stand of the ASM, which opposes the Centre's decision, Mahanta had submitted a memorandum supporting citizenship for immigrants by ratifying the much debated amendment, though a large chunk of Sattra lands in several parts of the state have allegedly been encroached by illegal immigrants over the last few decades. 
 
 ASM president Jitendra Nath Pradhani told TOI on Saturday that the Sattra Mahasabha has also served a show cause notice on the vice-president of the organization, Akhil Mahanta, on why action should not be initiated against him. 
 
 Akhil Mahanta was present with Kusum Mahanta when the latter submitted the memorandum before the JPC.
 
 "Kusum Mahanta has admitted in a core committee meeting of the Sattra Mahasabha in Guwahati today that he supported the Centre's move. But at the same time, he said it was his personal opinion. However, ASM won't tolerate such unruly behaviour and has expelled him from the post of the Sattra Mahasabha's general secretary," said Pradhani.
 
 He said the ASM will approach the JPC soon to express its dissatisfaction over the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill 2016, which seeks to grant citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan who have come here till December 31 of 2014.
 
 Meanwhile, Deepak Barua has been given the charge of general secretary after the ouster of Kusum Mahanta. Pradhani said an enquiry committee headed by noted litterateur Lakhinandan Borah will probe the goof-up which has triggered a massive hue and cry against ASM, the umbrella organization of over 1200 sattras spread over Assam and West Bengal.
 
 Ever since the tabling of the bill in the Parliament in August 2016, Assam has witnessed relentless protests as several political and apolitical organizations want the Assam Accord to be followed in the state while deciding on the citizenship issue. 
 
 The proposed amendment to the Citizenship Act, 1955 will quash the Assam Accord signed with the Centre after the six-year-long anti-foreigner movement. All immigrants who have entered the state after March 25, 1971 should be deported as per the Assam Accord.
 
 "As an organization, ASM is against the bill. We are sur- prised at the allegations lev- elled at us and that's why a core committee meeting has been called on Saturday, where we will seek clarification from our general secretary and vice-president who represent- ed ASM in the JPC hearing," Pradhani had said on Friday.
 
 
