Nagpur: Wardha-based Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences (DMIMS) is the only other medical institution, besides Pune’s DY Patil Vidyapeeth, among the seven deemed to be universities from Maharasthra that would get greater autonomy by the HRD ministry.

 Sixty higher learning institutions, including DMIMS, across the country would now be exempted from inspections by the University Grants Commission (UGC). They can start a new course/programme/ department/school/centre in disciplines that form a part of its existing academic framework without approval of the UGC.
 
 Hailing the government’s special status accorded to DMIMS under category I for maintaining high NAAC score over the years, trustee and DMIMS board of management member Sagar Meghe said the achievement has brought more responsibility on the group to maintain the high standards.
 
 Meghe said DMIMS would now focus on starting skill-based healthcare courses, international campuses and distance learning programmes.
 
 Institutions need UGC’s permission, besides fulfilment of several conditions, before starting courses and taking key decisions. But, greater autonomy would help the institute take its own decisions regarding courses, campuses and syllabus.
 
 “Para-medical staff shortage is dogging the healthcare system. There are lots of doctors but dearth of support staff. We will come up with such skilled-oriented courses. Now, doors are also open for us to start formal education at offshore campuses,” Meghe said.
 
 In distance learning, he said executive-based healthcare courses, master in pubic health and hospital management would be offered.
 
 Meghe said the courses wouldn’t be expensive and they plan to start in two-three years. DMIMS vice-chancellor Rajiv Borle said creating skilled workers for filling posts like MRI technicians, CT scan operator etc will be priority. 
 
 Pro-Chancellor Vedprakash Mishra said the institute has used its outstanding track record to emerge as the centre of excellence in the region. “We already have 10 centres of excellence in health, science and education. DMIMS has brought a small place on the national map. We will take it to international map in the coming time.”
 
 Mishra said the achievement wouldn’t have been possible without a free-hand given by the Meghes. “I thank Datta Meghe for giving us a free-hand in all academic matters and total support by Sagar Meghe. I am proud to have build a team.”
 
 Pro vice-chancellor Neelam Mishra said, “It is a big achievement for us. It is a miracle to be seen, to be believed.”
 
 
