CHENNAI: If you are planning to buy a decade-old apartment in a multistoried building, there is now window to verify if the flat on resale has violations at the click of a button. The   ( ) has begun uploading digitised copies of planning permits and approval letters to the local bodies online. The approval letter contains specifications such as the number of floors and units sanctioned for constructions, besides conditions regarding mandatory approvals from the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB).

 According to CMDA sources, the planning permits and approval letters would be uploaded for projects which obtained planning sanction between 2006 and 2017. “We have started with 2017 and are uploading the documents in the descending order. In the past one year we have digitised all the planning permits and approval letters between 2005 and 2017,” a CMDA official said. Until now, the public was able to access the file number, the date of approval, the site address, number of floors allowed for construction and contact details of the architects and structural engineers for housing projects under the category of special buildings. Constructions which have ground floor plus three floors or stilt plus four floors are categorised as special buildings. Official sources said documents from the 2006 would be made public in next six months.
 
 In 2017, CMDA gave planning permits for a total of 328 special buildings in the Chennai Metropolitan Area, which comprises the city and parts of Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. 
 
 A Balasubramani, founder president of   said the move would help those purchasing resale apartments. “Several deviations take place after receiving the completion certificate wherein additional floors are added to the existing structure. Under such circumstances, prospective buyers can get the authenticated details about the particular (apartment) units from the official portal of the CMDA to ensure that it is not a violated structure,” he said.
 
 
