NAGPUR: The   (GMCH) has sent the final proposal to the directorate of medical education and research (DMER) for starting a   seeking administrative approval for the construction of the building. The construction cost is estimated to be Rs8.3 crore and the   has asked for release of the money.

 The college dean Dr A Niswade says the project will be completed in three phases. The building will be constructed within the existing GMCH premises either near the occupation and physiotherapy centres or opposite the hospital OPD. The dean has written a letter in this regard to the DMER on March 15. The centre will be set up under the orthopaedics department.
 
 Viral  , director, Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Institute of Medical Science, Research and Human Resources, an NGO and adviser to Union minister  , who is working for promoting various GMCH projects, told TOI that in the first phase construction of facility for acute care of spinal cord injury patients which includes casualty, OPD, operation theatres, ward, surgical intensive care unit and part of the rehabilitation services will be taken up.
 
 The second phase will cover all types of rehabilitation services which include physical therapy, occupational therapy, kinesiotherapy, aquatic therapy or hydrotherapy and home environment learning, orthotics, prosthetics and assistive technology, facility for urodynamics lab, neurosciences services, laboratory services and imaging services. In the third phase, a research lab, auditorium, library and teaching facilities will be created.
 
 Spinal cord injuries generally result in partial or complete paralysis. The limb movements are affected. But above that patients mostly land up with urine incontinence (involuntary urination). In fact, most of them do not recover from the damage. Hence, the centre will work in two ways. First by operating the patient, acute care will be rendered and thereafter complete rehabilitation is required. Hydro or water therapy forms an important aspect of rehabilitation. It requires a special swimming pool kind of place where patients are trained to activate their organs.
 
 At the centre, patients of spinal injury will be operated on priority basis and will be trained in restoring functions of various body organs damaged due to the injury. These patients, mostly in middle age group, are in the earning years of their lives. Hence, they are taught various rehabilitative vocations so that they can earn for themselves. This training is much advanced than the occupational or physiotherapy training given to patients of other injuries.
 
 
