Dharamshala:   Kumar,   MP, once again has reacted sharply, putting his own government in a tight spot on Nirav   and Mehul Chowksi, who are facing a Rs 11,000 crore bank fraud. The party is already under attack from the   on this issue as its senior leaders held a special press conference on this issue in Delhi. 

 “Though PM Modi had earlier assured that these types of loans will not be given to the people. But the truth so far is different and trend of looting the country is still going as it was during the time of Muslim and British rulers,” said Shanta Kumar. Targeting his own government, he further said: “The only difference in this loot is that earlier the people looting the wealth were strangers. But now, the people are our own and the government allowing this is also our own. This is unfortunate.”
 
 He said this in his official statement issued from his office at Palampur on Friday evening. He perhaps is the first BJP leader in the country talking tough on this incident against the Modi government. Shanta had served as Union minister in PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee cabinet. He is also a former BJP chief minister of Himachal Pradesh.
 
 The BJP leader said strict action was taken if a farmer failed to pay debt due to crop failure, but this is not done in case of business tycoons. “As of now, 3 lakh farmers have committed suicides. But no action is being taken against these rich people of the country, who run away with crores,” he said. “Only because of these loans and inaction against defaulters that the financial position of banks has worsened in India. And the government has to pay Rs 88 crore to banks, which is the money of poor and common people of the country,” he said.
 
 “It is unfortunate that after 70 years of Independence the trend of looting the country is still the same, the public is the same, just faces of people doing this exploitation have changed,” he maintained.
 
 Mentioning a speech delivered by PM Modi in the Lok Sabha, Shanta said Modi during his address had said that the NPA had reached Rs 52 lakh crore during the Congress regime and of it Rs 6 lakh crore was almost lost or non-recoverable. “But it is also not known whether something will come out of these Rs 52 lakh crore or not,” he said.
 
 Interestingly, this is not the first time that an outburst from Shanta Kumar had taken place against the BJP in the Centre, but earlier also had issued statements that he was not in favour of ‘Congress-mukt-Bharat’, saying that a good Opposition was sign of healthy democracy. He had also written to Amit Shah during Vyapam Scam targeting his own party. 
 
 
