PALAKKAD: The Kerala Police arrested two persons and took five others into custody on Friday in connection with the alleged lynching of a tribal youth at Attappadi in Palakkad district.

 The arrested persons have been identified as Pakialam Hussain and Kareem.
 
 
  
  
 The deceased, Madhu (27) of Kadukumanna tribal hamlet near Mukkali in Attapadi, was thrashed by some local drivers on suspicion of theft.
 
 The police refused to reveal the identity of persons in custody and said interrogation was still in progress. It is learnt that persons in custody were identified from the pictures and videos shared via social media.
 
 Condemning the brutal attack, Vijayan said, such atrocities can't be accepted in a civilised society. "There is no justification for such acts", he said in a Facebook post.
 
 The youth was forcibly taken in a vehicle from Kadukumanna and beaten up very badly by some local residents on Thursday, it was learnt .
 
 He was taken to Mukkali and handed over to the police. In the police vehicle, he vomited and then the police took him to Agali public health centre where he was declared dead.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The mother of the deceased refused to take his body until the culprits of the crime were arrested.
 
 Tribals and human rights activists staged protests in various parts of the state after photos and visuals of the fatal attack went viral on social media besides being telecast by TV channels.
 
 
  
  
 
 Deputy superintendent of police Agali T K Subramanian said that Madhu was brought to Mukkali by some local residents from the forest area.
 
  
  
 
 “He was beaten up by some people and was in bad health when he was handed over to the police. While the police were taking him to Agali station, he threw up in the vehicle and was shifted to the Agali PHC where he was declared brought dead,” the DSP said. He said that the actual cause of death could be known only after postmortem.
 
 He was mentally unsound and used to camp in forest during day time and come to Mukkali and Thavalam town during night and allegedly steal goods from some shops. Police are investigating the incident, Subramanian said.
 
 K A Ramu, covener of Thampu, a tribal organization, too said the youth was mentally unsound and the local drivers had beaten him up. He has urged the police to arrest the guilty.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
