SHIMLA: The proposal for the construction of Attargoo-Sagam-Mudh-Bhawa road connecting   district with Lahaul-Spiti district in Himachal Pradesh and passing through Rupi Bhaba Wildlife Sanctuary has got the nod of the National Board for Wildlife, which has paved the way for the construction of a road at 4,865m above sea level to cut the distance between Shimla and Kaza in   by almost 100km. 

 For the last seven years the project had been gathering dust in the files and now with the nod of the National Board for Wildlife only a clearance is required under the Forest Conservation Act to start the construction work. Sources said that Khardungla is considered to be the highest motorable road in the world as it passes at a height of 5,387m and with the construction of Attargoo-Sagam-Mudh-Bhawa Road, it will be the second highest at 4,865m. 
 
 Slow progress on this 106km proposed road had left residents of Spiti valley concerned. A stretch of 33.5km was completed from Kaza side while a portion of around 28km falls in   Wildlife Sanctuary. At present, the distance between Shimla and Kaza is around 410km and one has to take an arduous journey through Nako, Sumdo and Tabo to reach Kaza. But through the new road the journey would be reduced to around 310 km.
 
 According to sources, a standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife had discussed the proposal in its 45th meeting as the proposal involved the diversion of 43.70 hectares of forestland from the Rupi Bhaba Wildlife Sanctuary for the construction of this road. In a letter dated August 30 last year, principal chief conservator of forests, Himachal Pradesh, had requested the committee to consider the diversion of the required land and had also mentioned that the state chief wildlife warden had recommended the proposal without imposing conditions. After discussion the standing committee decided to recommend the proposal.
 
 Agriculture and tribal development minister Ram Lal Markanda said that this ambitious road was on the priority list of the government and it would be ensured that the required clearances under the Forest Conservation Act were taken at the earliest to start its construction. 
 
 “The government has already sent the case for clearance under the Forest Conservation Act and the file is expected to be cleared in the next couple of months,” he added.
 
 
