SALEM: A day after   chief minister   Vijayan sought a probe into a complaint against a private hospital in   in connection with removing internal organs of a brain-dead patient from his state, the hospital authorities on Friday denied any foul play and said the organs were harvested with the family members’ consent.

 The younger brother of the deceased also confirmed that the organs were harvested with their consent, but he said there was something dubious about performing the postmortem at night as that was unusual.
 
 Pinarayi had on Thursday wrote to chief minister  , urging him to order a probe into the complaint lodged by the family members of P Manikandan, 24, of Meenakshipuram in   district in Kerala, whose organs were allegedly removed before his body was handed over to the kin.
 
 As per the letter, Manikandan and six others were injured in an accident near Kallakkuruchi in Villupuram district on May 18 while they were returning to Meenakshipuram from Chennai. They were admitted to the Vinayaka Mission Super Specialty Hospital in Salem, the same day.
 
 Hospital sources said the condition of the two of them - P Manikandan and A Manikandan - were critical. Others, identified as A Pambavaasan, 18, S Karthick, 23, V Vigneswaran, 16 and  , 24, had received only minor injuries.
 
 On May 20, doctors declared P Manikandan brain-dead and put him on ventilator. According to the Kerala chief minister’s letter, the hospital authorities demanded from his kin Rs 3 lakh towards treatment charges and another Rs 25,000 for taking the body to Meenakshipuram. Since the family didn’t have the amount, they were asked to sign a few papers, it said.
 
 Dr V P Chandrasekaran, chief operating officer, VIMS told TOI that the organs were harvest with the consent from the kin of the deceased and after informing the Tamil Nadu Network for Organ Sharing. Subsequently, kidneys, corneas, liver, intestines, pancreas, heart and lungs were harvested and sent to Fortis Hospital and Global Hospital in Chennai, KMCH in Coimbatore and Manipal Hospital in Salem. The hospital also used one.
 
 Manikandan’s younger brother P Manoj said the hospital management had clearly explained about the organ donation. “They harvest the organs only after getting our consent,” he said. He, however, said performing autopsy at night was unusual. “No hospital would do autopsy after sun set. Then why they performed autopsy at night,” he questioned.
 
 Chandrasekaran said the Tamil Nadu government has mentioned in its guidelines that a hospital could carry out autopsy at any time if the recipient hospitals were ready.
 
 
