The skies are bright and sunny and the days more engaging and buzzing. The gloom of winter is out of the way and the lure of summer vacations lies ahead. Yet not everyone is beaming. The thought of long days and soaring temperatures is a recipe for mood swings and depression for many. Although summer-onset SAD is fairly uncommon, it’s a real disorder that affects many people around the world.
 
 
 
 We usually associate summertime with outdoor activities, spending time in the pool, having fun with friends but many of us are not aware of summertime depression or summertime sadness. People dealing with summer SAD suffer likely, because of, either too much heat or too much light. They feel the soaring heat even when the sun goes down.
 
 
 
 Individuals with summer SAD will show certain signs like anxiousness or feeling too irritable and angry. It may affect their mood, their social behaviour, sleep pattern, appetite and more. While some of these symptoms may seem like normal, people suffering from summer SAD will show more anger than usual. The anger rants will not be usual. Such a person will show more than normal signs of irritability in summer.
 
 
 
 The solution to this may lie in hitting cooler climes at least once in this season. It’s wise to go for vacations on a higher altitude; mountains. 
 In addition, to manage stress and depression, find out healthy coping strategies – spending time with your family and friends. Any sort of outdoor activity is highly recommended. Also, managing your weight is a proven method to improve your mood and create a mind and body balance while giving you a sense of personal achievement.
 — Inputs from Dr Manoj Kutteri, wellness director at a leading wellness retreat
 
 
 A possible way to treat summer sad is to look at the body’s natural clock, its circadian rhythms, which may be misaligned due to summer allergies, hot weather or kids being at home! Long and cold showers, adequate hydration, keeping low light and running the AC can help
 — Bhakti Thakkar Bauva, psychologist
 
 
 Body image issues
 We all have to shed layers… of clothing, not fat, once summertime arrives. In fact, all the bunched up fat gathered through the happy winter eating shows up all the more through thin summer wear. Feeling embarrassed in shorts or a bathing suit can make life awkward, not to mention hot. Since summer holidays and parties revolve around beaches and pools, some people avoid socialising simply out of embarrassment. It’s a must to take up some form of exercise during these months; not just to lose that extra flab but let the happy hormones work overtime to lift your mood.
 
 
 
