PUNE: The   police on Monday booked four persons, including a woman from Borivli in Mumbai, for duping a 40-year-old physically challenged man and his partner to the tune of Rs 27 lakh by promising them help to secure an LPG agency of a public sector petroleum company through the quota for physically challenged persons.

 While the alleged cheating took place in between 2013 and 2015, the two victims waited all this time for the suspects to fulfill their promise and later used information procurred through the Right to Information ( ) to realise that they were cheated by the suspects. The victims,  , who is physically disabled, and his partner, Anand Bapusaheb   (40), both residents of  , then approached the police to lodge a complaint. Both, Mhaske and Kalake, run a business of earth moving machineries.
 
 Kalake told TOI that three suspects, including the woman, are based in Mumbai while the fourth keeps on travelling between Delhi and Nagpur. “We are familiar with all the four persons. The woman and one of the men from Mumbai always maintained that they were former staffers at  , the state secretariat, in Mumbai and knew all government procedures,” Kalake said. The third suspect from Mumbai would accompany them, Kalake said and added that the fourth suspect claimed that he knew all the ministers and public sector petroleum company officials in Delhi.
 
 Kalake said, “The suspects won our confidence and we decided to invest in a gas agency. My partner is physically disabled and the suspects claimed that they can get the agency under the special quota for physically disabled persons. The four suspects then gave documents and prepared applications. They claimed that they have submitted applications in Mantralaya and in the Delhi office of a petroleum company,” he said. “The suspects took cash and cheques, totally worth Rs 27 lakh in two years, from us towards fees and other purposes,” he said.
 
 “In 2015, we received two letters from a petroleum company, having national emblem and other details of the company. One of the letters stated that the gas agency has been allotted to Mhaske,” Kalake said. “We were happy on receipt of this letter. However, there were no signs about the company supplying gas cylinders to us. The suspects informed us that there was a change in the central government and there was election code of conduct, thus gas agency cannot be started,” he said.
 
 “Then we decided to investigate the matter and submitted an application to the concerned petroleum company under the provisions of the RTI Act. The company in response informed in writing that it has never issued such letter to Mhaske,” said Kalake. “Thus, this letter revealed their real face,” he said adding “we decided to approach police”. Police have filed a cheating and forgery case against the four suspects.
 
 
