Madurai: P Manimaran, a barber from Muniswarar Nagar near Iyer Bungalow had to close his shop on Tuesday to take care of the sewage menace at his house. The sewage pit he had created, in front of his house, to tackle the waste water got filled with dirt and the water started flowing onto the streets.

 Manimaran also engaged a worker for cleaning. Yet, he had dirt smeared all over him as he helped the worker to control the overflowing. “I could have just left the water to overflow. It would not only create problem for other residents, but will also lead to sanitation issues in the area,” Manimaran said.
 
 This issue prevails in all 300 households in Muniswarar Nagar, which is a newly added area, annexed during the expansion of Madurai city corporation in 2011. But not all residents are responsible like Manimaran. Many households let out sewage onto the streets.
 
 The area was part of erstwhile Thiruppalai panchayat, before it became part of the 24th ward of Madurai Corporation. The newly added areas are yet to get the underground drainage (UGD) facility. Since it involves a huge investment, the cash-starved corporation could not take it up so far. The residents however have been constantly urging officials for atleast a temporary relief, if not UGD which is their ultimate demand.
 
 President of Muniswarar Nagar Residents Welfare Association A Ramaiah said that they have been approaching officials of various ranks to get the facility, without any avail. They have been residing there for the last 20 years without basic amenities like drainage and proper roads. “We do not want UGD immediately. At least temporary measure like drainage channel should be created. The drainage channel from Krishna Nagar is cut half way down Indira Salai. It should be extended to cover all houses in our area,” Ramaiah said.
 
 Apart from drainage, proper road facility is also a long pending demand of the residents. The roads are either damaged or waiting for bitumen for long. The condition worsens during rainy season, say residents. C Palaniandi a resident from Saratha Devi Street said it is not easy for the elderly persons like him to walk on the road, as they have not been laid for several years.
 
 When contacted, an official from Madurai Corporation said that a detailed project report for UGD for all 28 newly-annexed wards has been prepared and sent for funds under various central government schemes. It is yet to be approved. 
 
 
