With the aim to revive art and  , a two-day event, Muzart, was recently organised at Sangeet Natak Academy. Day one of the fest was dedicated to art, while day two was all about music.
The first day kick-started with an hour-long A/V presentation highlighting the origin of visual arts. Later, to promote the artistic talent among the hearing impaired students, the kids were provided an open stage to showcase their creativity. The art-work of Manisha Rastogi, a teacher of the specially abled, was exhibited at the event which was much appreciated by the visitors.  , who marked her presence as the guest of honour, said, "It is the need of the hour to preserve these old art and music and let the young er generation know about it because they are the ones who will carry this forward."
 Painter Pankaj Gupta shared his success story and highlighted different art forms which are getting lost with the time. 
 
  
  Harmony band performing at the event (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
 
  
  Rajesh Mishra (L) & Manish Mishra (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
  
  Puneet Shukla , Rishika Singh and   (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
  
  Samidha Singh , Saurav Chatterjee and Suman Singh (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
 
  
  Nagendra and Rachita and Prof Nishi Pandey (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
 
  
  Moris Ferrara, Amit Avtar and Dr   (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
 
 Later, day two was dedicated to music where people witnessed the A/V presentation showcasing the history of Blues and Jazz. A live tabla and sarangi music performance by father-son duo, Rajesh and Manish, respectively, earned them a huge round of applause. The fest culminated on a musical note where the Lucknow based music band- Harmony, performed Hindi and English songs like 'Tum Jo Mil Gaye Ho', 'Jiyein Kyun', 'Crazy Little Things', 'Mexico', among others. "With the aim to keep it an infotainment initiative, we came with our first expo to preserve art and music which people are forgetting these days. It was a move to make people aware that the Blues and Jazz still hold the same essence like they did a century back," said Dr Ashutosh Singh, one of the organisers. 
 — Adnaan Rizvi
 
