Ludhiana: A few hours before killing his daughter Balwinder Kaur and her paramour Kuldeep Kumar with an axe in their sleep, 55-year-old Gurmail Singh acted as if he did not have any problem with their relationship and even cooked kheer for them after inviting them to his house.

 Gurmail surrendered before the police soon after committing the crime.
 
 Yet to recover from the shock, Gurmail’s relatives in Bhaini Doaba village in Koomkalan said no one suspected that he would murder them in such a brutal manner. Even after she ran away from house with her paramour, Balwinder remained dear to everyone in the family. Gurmail’s wife had died long back and the family had taken good care of the girl.
 
 In February 2013, when Balwinder left her husband and children for Kuldeep Kumar, it left his father Gurmail Singh shocked and ashamed. He left the house and started living in a gurdwara in Fatehgarh Sahib. He stopped interacting with his family members and villagers.
 
 After a few weeks, he started visiting his family only in the nights to avoid meeting any villager. The family had kept on looking for Balwinder, but could not trace her after she left her husband.
 
 A relative of Gurmail who resided in Bhaini Doaba said, “In these five years, Gurmail never met anyone in the village. He would come home to meet his family during night hours. He would call his son to pick him from Sahnewal, a few kilometres away from his village, and drop back after meeting the family. He never wanted to face anyone.”
 
 “A few days back, her brothers got her address from Balwinder’s daughter. The family decided to approach her and asked her to come home. The father also agreed and happily asked Balwinder to return home. Both sons of Gurmail –– Gurpreet and Talwinder –– went to Rewari and brought her home last week. Gurmail did not show any sign of anger and no one could assume what was in his mind,” he said.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (IV) Rajveer Singh Boparai said, “When Balwinder returned home, the entire family was happy. Gurmail also pretended to have reconciled. He cooked kheer for her. Later when he gained confidence of Balwinder, he asked her to call Kuldeep to house, claiming that he wanted to meet him. On Monday, Kuldeep reached home and met everyone. Gurmail cooked kheer for him too and no one suspected anything.”
 
 During the night when his son Gurpreet was on duty and other family members were at the relatives’ house in the village, Gurmail planned to kill Balwinder and Kuldeep. Both were asleep in the bedroom, when Gurmail first attacked Kuldeep with an axe and killed him with repeated strikes. Later he attacked Balwinder and killed her too. “He dragged their bodies out of the bedroom, put them in a modified trolley and parked it in the centre of the chowk in village,” the police official added.
 
 Gurmail was so revengeful and angry that even after they were dead, he continued to hit their bodies while carrying them towards the chowk. He told police that after killing them with an axe, he repeatedly attacked their bodies with sickle and a sword. He also beheaded Kuldeep and tried to behead Balwinder too, but something stopped him and he left the place.
 
 “After surrendering, Gurmail confessed that he cooked kheer and prepared good food for them, but he was angry as both had brought dishonour to the family. Balwinder had left her husband and children for Kuldeep and Gurmail wanted to teach them a lesson. When cops asked him about the reason of dumping their bodies in the chowk, Gurmail said he wanted the entire village to see their condition and consequences,” the ADCP added.
 
 When TOI team visited police station, the accused was seen restlessly walking around the room, though there were hardly any sign of repentance on his face. Meanwhile, villagers many of whom had seen the bodies dumped in the chowk refrained from talking about the incident.
 
 No one lodged a complaint or gave a statement to the police about the incident. The police then traced Kuldeep’s brother Sunil Kumar of Haibowal Kalan, and registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC.
 
 Police said Kuldeep Kumar was wanted in two cases of fighting and scuffle in Ludhiana.
 
 
