MUMBAI: Six days after  , an intern at  , was hit by a speeding car on  , the 25-year-old lost her battle for life on Friday evening. Her family, aware of her slim chances of recovery, tried till the end to donate her organs, but couldn’t. 

 After the death, the police added IPC section 304A (causing death by negligence) to the FIR. “We had arrested the accused under section 338 (see graphic), 279 of the IPC and also invoked a section of the motor vehicles Act. We are gathering evidence and recording statements of witnesses. We will file our chargesheet,” said zonal DCP Manoj Kumar Sharma. 
 
 Shikha Jhaveri, a teacher who lives on Nepean Sea Road, was at the wheels of the speeding car. She had been arrested and released on bail after Saturday’s accident. 
  
  
 Lahamate was walking towards the JJ Gymkhana to celebrate brother Abhinay’s convocation ceremony when she was hit by the car near the Taraporewala Aquarium(see graphic). The end came for Lahamate around 5.30pm, minutes after she suffered a cardiac arrest. 
 
 Abhinay, 23, and elder sister Sarika, 27, who have been composed all these days while camping at  , broke down as they saw their sister gasp for her last breath. JJ doctors said she died of polytrauma and multiple fractures. 
 
 “It would have been miraculous for her to have come back alive from such brain stem injury,” said Dr S D Nanandkar, dean of JJ Hospital. “Everybody is asking if we want any compensation from the family (of the accused). We have lost our beloved sister. Tell me how much money can compensate my father’s loss, who, despite living in extreme conditions and serving in tribal areas all his life, managed to make her a doctor. The Jhaveris didn’t have the courage to face us, so some of their friends came sheepishly at 2.30am on Friday to meet us. I wanted her to come and see the pain my sister has endured because of her reckless driving,” said Sarika, fighting tears.
 
 Family trashes phone theory She also alleged the police were making baseless statements that she was on her phone while crossing the road. 
 
 “Her cellphone is completely intact. Look what the crash did to her, how could the cellphone have survived any damage? The police should first check her phone records and investigate before making such comments,” the sister said. 
 
 The police reiterated that eyewitnesses said Lahamate was on the phone. Abhinay said the driver of the car should get the harshest punishment.
 Bid to donate organs fails The siblings were hoping Lahamate’s vitals would stabilize at some point so that they could initiate the process of organ donation. Relatives even went to Ahmednagar to get the consent of her parents. “She had filled organ donation forms in college and we wanted to respect that,” said her friend. At the time of going to press, they were preparing to take her body home.
 
