NAGPUR: After   (NU) finally withdrew the diploma from Dr Vedprakash Mishra for indulging in plagiarism of theses, all eyes are now on its administration on what stand he would take on Justice CL Pangarkar’s panel report.

 The report had indicted him for allegedly interfering, pressurizing and influencing the NU administration during the 2011 Senate polls.
 
 The panel was constituted after TOI, in a series of reports, exposed how dirty politics and blackmailing during NU polls had led to resignation of assistant returning officer Vilas Ramteke (then deputy registrar). The newspaper had also exposed how Secular Panel members led by Mishra, who was then pro-chancellor of   (DMIMS), had allegedly tried to interfere, pressurize and influence the administration.
 
 Speaking to TOI recently, VC SP Kane admitted that Dr Mishra’s interference in NU administration has grown “manifold”. “Previously, we had decided to take one case at a time. Therefore, we’re focusing on his plagiarism case. However, we need to seriously think over taking action on Pangarkar panel’s recommendations now,” he said, but refused to set any time frame.
 
 He said the senior academician regularly sent letters to him and pro-VC Pramod Yeole on quoting “irrelevant reasons” and also regularly complained to chancellor   against us.
 
 The Pangarkar panel, citing TOI reports, also named zoology lecturers Suresh Bakre working at Navargaon-based Dhyanesh Mahavidyalaya, SS Mulmule working with   in Kalmeshwar, AK Shukla working with SN Mor College in Tumsar, and Dilip Sonawane working at Sarvodaya Mahavidyalaya in Sindewahi for trying to pressurize the NU administration.
 
 “Dr Mishra tried to malign the VC and others supported him. What locus he has? This act is nothing short of an attempt to pressurize VC and registrar,” the panel stated.
 
 The retired judge suggested that time has come for the state, central and apex body governing deemed universities to formulate a ‘code of conduct’ for VCs. “I hope that they will take appropriate action in formulating the ‘Code of conduct’ and prohibit all VCs from directly/indirectly taking part in the elections of any university, and treating such part being taken as a misconduct inviting penalty and removal,” he recommended.
 
 Justice Pangarkar lamented that Dr Mishra was not even remotely concerned with NU and his acts were certainly not befitting to a person himself holding a VC’s post. “Being a VC of another university, he had no reason to take up cudgels for the contestants or voters. He should have better taken care of his own university. It’s very strange that he wants to dictate how nomination papers should be scrutinized by the registrar,” he added.
 
 Guv nominates 10 members to Senate
 
 Chancellor Ch Vidyasagar Rao nominated ten new members to NU Senate, who would participate in Wednesday’s meeting. NU published their names through two notifications, which included many controversial ones, as per officials. The nomination of Samir Parate, Jagdish Joshi, Shrikant Dhondrikar, Vijay Munishwar,and  , would be subjected to verifications of their antecedents, while Tarzan Gaikwad, Samay Bansod, Swapnil Potdar, Pravinkumar Randive, and Vijay Munishwar are exempted.
 
 
