RAIPUR: Giving them the wings to their favourite passion, a   beauty contest is being organized for the first time in central India in joint collaboration with state government and JCI   inviting Third Gender (TG) people from Chhattisgarh for the first audition to be held in Raipur on Sunday. More than 40 TGs have already been registered and the chosen ones would undergo training for grooming, communication, diet etc. 

 
  
  
 
 The audition is scheduled to take place at an auditorium of private school at Vidha Sabha road while there are auditions scheduled to take place in Raigarh and Jagdalpur as well. 
 
 According to officials, Chhattisgarh has taken a significant initiative in helping TGs to join the mainstream and after decision taken for recruiting them in police force, now their passion for beauty and make-up would be given wings to fly.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Neha Shalmon, Ajay Agrawal and Sameer Sheikh of JCI are chairing the whole event. They said that a final round of 20 select contestants would be held on June 3.
 
 “This initiative is part of one of goals set by United Nations towards gender equality and in stead of focusing plainly on women empowerment, JCI decided to work for TGs this year. Aiming to help them become equal part of society, we sought support from social welfare department and are organizing beauty pageant for TGs,” Neha said.
 
 She added that the chosen 20 contestants would be provided with residential and professional training for three days wherein they would under training for self defence, confidence, grooming, communication and diet plan etc. they would also get exposure to interact with public and meet people on large platforms where they could share their views and stories.
 
 Taking them to old-age homes, malls, children homes, homes for needy children will not only instil confidence among them to face the world, but people would also open up to accept them as part of society, in stead of fearing them. Additional tasks would be given to them as part of contest, Neha added.
 
 This is a step to empower them and we are surprised with large number of participants still pouring in from different parts of state like Ambikapur, Durg, Bhilai, Bilaspur etc. TGs are not being charged for participation or for residential training, their transport cost is also being born by the JCI. 
 
 Their confidence and the way they carry themselves would get the fortunate one her crown!
 
 
 
