Hundreds of farmers, including a large number of women from Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar and Baran district, under the aegis of   on Thursday carried out an aggressive agitation in front of Kota district collector office in   area.

 They burnt the garlic yield in protest which farmers are allegedly forced to sell at a very low price.
 
 A large number of farmers including women surrendered and were taken into police buses later in the day. Hundreds of farmers associated with various farmers’ organizations including Kisan Sabha, Kisan Sarvoday Mandal, Kisan Mahapanchyat under the aegis of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samiti, assembled at the district collector office and demonstrated in favor of their four point demand and in protest of anti farmer’s policy of the state government. The farmers in protest burnt the Holi of garlic crop in front of the Collectorate, alleging insensitivity by the state government towards garlic cultivators.
 
 Pointing out the farmers’ demands, convener of Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Sangarsh Samanvay Samiti, Fatehchand   said, the farmers of Hadoti region are forced to sell wheat for a loss of Rs. 200 per quintal and below the minimum support price (MSP) and demanded the state government should purchase wheat on Madhya Pradesh pattern at MSP of Rs. 2000 with intensive of Rs. 265 per quintal. “The farmers are also forced to sell chickpea (Chana) and mustard crops below the MSP in the state thus bearing aloss of Rs. 1000 and 500 per quintal respectively,” he said demanding a fair price by the government to the farmers for the same crops. “The garlic cultivators of Hadoti region who produce large amounts of garlic crop every year are forced to think of ending their lives as they are forced to sell their crop for Rs. 2 to 10 per kilogram,” Bagla said demanding the state government should under the market intervention scheme purchase the same crop of best quality for Rs. 5000 and medium quality for Rs. 3200 and low quality for Rs. 1000 to 1500 per quintal. The online purchase system of the government has failed and the state government should purchase the crops from the farmers on   pattern, Bagla demanded.
 
 
