Panaji: Goa’s qualification to the   in the Senior Women’s one-day cricket league is already a thing of the past. It was achieved last year, and as a new year commences, there are new targets to achieve.
 
  For the state women’s cricket team, the first target this year is to book a place among the six teams for the Elite Super League in Mumbai later this month. The qualifiers will be played in Goa and the hosts should feel comfortable as they face Uttar Pradesh in the opening game at the Academy ground, Porvorim, on Saturday.
  
  Goa coach   gave the team a few days rest after their win over Bengal in the Plate Group final. However, the team has been training from December 31 to prepare for the   league and the coach remains confident that they can register some good performances in the group stage.
  
  “I am sure the girls will do well this time. We didn’t perform up to expectations in the T20 league last year. We won a game and lost three. However, after our good run in the one-day tournament, girls are motivated to do better,” said Palshikaar, who played for India and represented Maharashtra and Assam before taking up Goa’s coaching responsibilities a year ago.
  
  Goa’s other group ties will be against Baroda (January 15), Bengal (January 16) and Madhya Pradesh (January 17).
  
  Having played Bengal earlier should help Goa as they avenged their loss in the group clash by recording a 37-run win in the final.
  
  “The result in the final is a confidence booster for us. We will be ready to face them after playing two matches in the T20 league," said Palshikaar.
  
  The coach believes experienced campaigner like captain   could give the team the boost in the Elite Super League.
  
  “Our first target is to make it to the Elite Super League. We want to play well and record some victories,” said the coach. The top two teams from each group will qualify for the six-team league in Mumbai.
  
  The squad: Shikha Pandey (captain), Sunanda Yetrekar, Sanjula Naik, Vinavi Gurav (WK), Nikita Malik, Bharati Gaonkar, Sugandha Ghadi, Sindhiya Naik, Santoshi Rane, Rupali Chavan, Pratiksha Gadekar, Vanita Bhandari, Nishigandha Manjrekar, Diksha Gawde, Nasreen Banu.
