NEW DELHI:   always had the tag of the ‘next special thing’. It was only a matter of time. But he decided to make his announcement on the big stage, and in style. In South Africa at the  , he had a five-stroke lead going into the final day. He was calm throughout, avoiding ‘the choke’ and rookie mistakes. At the co-sanctioned $3,000,000   in Malaysia, he scored a stunning 10-under-62 for a 21-under aggregate to jump from a tied-19th position to the head of the class, pressure birdies on the final two holes probably taking it away from the rest of the challengers.

 
 The two-stroke triumph was his second   win in 13 events and fetched him a cheque of $500,000 (Rs 3.2 crore approx).
 
 “Everything just fell into place today. After scoring five birdies on the front nine, I knew I had a chance to put up a really good score. It wasn’t easy because it was windy but I kept pushing the whole day and it was a rollercoaster ride the whole week,” he tells TOI from KL.
 
 After completing this dream double, Shubhankar has risen to World No. 70 and heads the European as well as Asian Orders of Merit. “More than anything, this will open up new doors for me. I’m playing the British Open and there will be more Majors and besides these biggies, I will be playing the WGCs.”
 
 His father Col Mohan Sharma always put down his son’s success to his calm demeanour apart from golfing talent, of course. “Mentally he has always been there. There seems to be no awe factor. He says, ‘if XYZ can do it, why can’t I?’”
 
 “He is also a very obedient boy,” his dad adds.
 
 It was only on paternal insistence that Shubhankar proceeded to Johannesburg after tiring outings, and reaped the benefits. There is a willingness to learn, to stretch his horizons. The Tiger Woods fan was grouped with Henrik Stenson in the penultimate round and was able to pick his brain or watch the Swede closely. Ironically, Stenson scored a 73, Shubhankar 66. “Last week, Rory McIlroy was in the field, this week Stenson. While it can be overwheming since I have followed someone like Rory growing up, at the end of the day they are competitors and that’s how I try to see them,” says the 21-year-old Jammu boy who is currently based out of Chandigarh.
 
 Apart from his regular training with Jesse Grewal, Shubhankar has opted for a support group who aids him in equipment, fitness and nutrition. “We took everything into consideration and it was well-planned,” says Sharma senior.
 
 Coincidentally, his other closing round of 10-under 62 came in Manila and it sealed his full playing Asian Tour rights for 2017. It was an opportunity which catapulted him to the bigger stage.
 
 Before Shubhankar, there was Anirban Lahiri. In 2015, India’s only representative on the PGA Tour won in Malaysia, his first of two European victories. “I’ve watched him grow through the ranks the previous years and he is consistent and tenacious as ever,” Anirban had told Asiantour.com last year.
 
 There is also a link between the two. Anirban’s father helped deliver Shubhankar’s sister, and also advised Col Sharma to introduce his 6-year-old son to  . “That way, he was the initiator,” Col Sharma says.
 
 For India’s ‘new special thing,’ this is only the beginning of a long journey.
 
 Final scores: 267-S Sharma (Ind) 70 69 66 62 ($500,000); 269-J Campillo (Esp) 69 66 66 68; 270 R Fox (Nzl) 68 68 68 66, P Larrazábal (Esp) 70 70 64 66.
 
 
