Mumbaikars came together on Friday night to celebrate the closing ceremony and the final sale of gorgeous elephant sculptures for Elephant Parade India, officially launched last year on August 12, 2017 on the occasion of World Elephant Day 2017.

  
  
 Surrounded by the iridescent creations, the closing ceremony was hosted by Ruth Ganesh, Trustee, Elephant Family and patrons and supporters of Elephant family including Haseena Jethmalani, Akshay Chudasama, Alex Kuruvilla,  , Sangita Jindal and Vikram Goyal. Dino Morea, Tanishaa Mukerji, Kim Sharma, Tanya Dubash, Mehr Jesia Rampal, Aarti Surendranath, Abhishek and Pragya Kapoor, Siddhanth Kapoor, Elizabeth Hurley, Manish Malhotra, Varun Bahl, Sanjeev and Alyona Kapoor, Yash and Avanti Birla, Pratapsinh Gaekwad, Kanika Kapoor,   and   were seen at the event.
 
  
  
 The first ever Elephant Parade India has been heralded as a resounding success with an outpouring of love and support from the people of Mumbai for Elephant conservation in the country whilst capturing the public’s imagination and reaching out to close to 35 lakh people. Following the parade announcement in August 2017, a selection of elephants travelled the country at special preview events in Jaipur, New Delhi and Kolkata before coming to Mumbai. In the last month, 101 spectacular elephant sculptures turned heads and melted hearts in staggering numbers as Mumbai welcomed the #helpthehathi campaign with open arms making it the world's biggest public art event. 
 
 Elephant sculptures were simultaneously sold at an online auction to raise funds for their endangered wild cousins and their forest homes. The Elephant Parade India benefit auction featured a magnificent collection of sculptures by artists, designers, actors and celebrities including  ,   and AbRam Khan, Sabyasachi Mukherjee, Manish Malhotra among others. Fashion, architecture, folk and fine art collided in this collection of powerful masterpieces created as an ode to their majestic endangered cousins - the wild Asian elephant. 
  
  
 Ruth Ganesh, Trustee Elephant Family, “Elephant Parade India has been truly supersonic. From a star-studded launch at the Gateway of India to overhearing eight-year-olds talk intelligently about elephant corridors, it has succeeded on every level. We cannot thank the people of Mumbai enough for getting behind this campaign to raise awareness of India’s endangered elephants.”
 
