HYDERABAD: Three days from now, chief minister  , who is known to explain the nitty-gritty of every subject he takes up, will once again play teacher to the nearly 15,000 delegates slated to attend the 17th plenary of TRS at Kompally, Medchal. At the last plenary, the chief minister had made all delegates take down notes about the input subsidy scheme that he had conceived for farmers. This time around, what the TRS president intends to do is to explain in detail the national role that he has envisaged for the party in the 2019 elections.

 Apart from laying emphasis on the role of TRS in national politics, nine resolutions will be put forward before the plenary, including one on 30 welfare schemes to put on record that Telangana is the first state in India to provide basic amenities and fulfil the needs of the poor. “The party chief will talk about the future of TRS in national politics,” party spokesperson Palla Rajeshwara Reddy said at the venue.
 
 In December last,   at a public meeting had said that Union home minister Rajnath Singh had enquired if he was planning to make a foray into national politics. At that time, KCR had told him that he was content with taking care of Telangana. But since then, KCR has had a change of heart and announced his entry into national politics in March.
 
 KCR gave wings to his idea by flying down to Kolkata first where he met his West Bengal counterpart and   chief  . He then flew to Bengaluru where he met JD(S) leader and former PM   and his son Kumaraswamy. He has plans to meet Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik in May.
 
 At the plenary, the CM will also talk about how his government had taken up first-of-itskind initiatives in the country. These ideas have been picked up by other states now, he plans to point out.
 
 The task that party representatives attending the plenary would be given is to strengthen the party by way of making the schemes known to every household and projecting the party as the one which has shown interest in people’s welfare. Apart from winning the assembly elections in 2019, the target of TRS is also to win 16 of the 17 Lok Sabha seats that will give KCR the muscle that he needs to flex post-elections and play a crucial role for the federal front that he is proposing at the Centre.
 
