It’s been years since actor   played cricket, but that is no excuse for his father who carefully notices how he holds or swings the bat and advises him to keep his eyes on the ball. As his   coach, Angad’s father  , former spinner and Indian cricket team captain, has never been generous or kind, says Angad, who recently returned to Feroz Shah Kotla with his father. Angad was last here in November at the Delhi & District Cricket Associations (DDCA) annual conclave for the official naming of one of the stands at the stadium after Bishan Singh Bedi. After a brief warm-up session, the father-son duo sit down to chat with us about their fond memories of playing cricket at Feroz Shah Kotla, Angad’s early days of playing cricket, and the lack of fitness consciousness among young cricketers.

 
 
  
  Bishan Singh Bedi
 
 
 
 
 For Angad to be present at the official naming of the stand after his father was a proud moment, but for Bedi Sr, "it wasn’t a milestone." He says that more than that, he would love to see the stadium in a better condition. "It should be a tourist spot, like Lord’s Cricket Ground or Melbourne Cricket Ground. This place has so much potential, but its condition hasn’t improved much in many years," says Bedi as he reminisces about the time he used to play and practise at the Feroz Shah Kotla grounds. "I remember that we used to have our dressing rooms where we now have the Willingdon Pavilion. During one Test match, when we were playing against England, I asked a man to be outside the dressing room and told him that no fan should get entry here. Suddenly, there was an army of uniformed personnel walking in and I wondered what was going on. I was told, 'President saab toilet istemaal karenge.' President Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed was watching the game and he wanted to use the loo and since there was no facility for the first citizen of the country, he came and used our washroom in the dressing room. Little has changed from then till now,” he tells us, adding that facilities for visitors at the stadium need immediate attention and upgradation.
 
 Angad says that his memories of the ground are all from the days when he used to play under his father. "I played a game here with dad against the British High Commission. I think I was about 11 then. I represented Delhi in Under-16 and Under-19. This used to be our home ground and we played quite a few games here. Dad was the coach then and we did a lot of training here, our captain was Vijay Dahiya. For one year, I was a part of the Ranji Trophy team as well, but didn’t get a chance to play. That time, Rahul Sanghvi had gone to represent India in Dhaka. My dad used to make me run a lot and would say, ‘10 chakkar lagao clockwise, phir anti-clockwise.’ He used to make us do juggling with the ball and told us that if you are able to do about 100, it is your base level fitness. This is the place where I saw Anil Kumble take his 10 wickets against Pakistan," Angad tells us. "I was not born when my father retired in 1979, but I watched footage of his games on VHS. He was my coach and we also played some friendly matches together. While playing, I learnt some important life lessons from him, one is discipline and the second is how to never give up," Angad adds.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Angad decided to give up cricket and concentrate on his acting career when he was 17. His father played an important role in that shift as he told Angad that "at 17, if you are not knocking at the Indian cricket team’s door, then you are wasting your time." Angad says, "I was 13 when I played for Under 16 and that time dad told me that now that you are selected, expectations will be different because you are one step away from playing first class cricket. I played well in my first and second year, and was later picked for Under 19. At 17, I realised that it’s going to be a tough decision to make, but I had the clarity of thought to walk out of cricket and try my luck in acting. I always wanted to be an actor. I grew up watching Amitabh Bachchan’s films. My cousin had a shop in Defence Colony and I would pick up Mr Bachchan's films and watch them four-five times."
 
 Bishan Singh Bedi is happy with his son’s decision to make a shift from cricket to acting as "now he is no more just Bishan Singh Bedi’s son and has made a name for himself", but he feels Angad could have worked harder for his cricket career. "When he was playing cricket, I don’t think he was hard working. He thought that being Bishan Singh Bedi’s son was good enough, but when he went to the film industry, he really worked hard there and I am glad he did. Had he worked 25% of this on his cricket, he would have played for the country. He found his own wings to fly, he didn’t want to be under the shadow of his father, but it dawned on him reasonably late," says Bedi.
 
 
 
 
 
 At a time when Virat Kohli-Anushka Sharma’s wedding became national news and the paparazzi has not stopped chasing the couple ever since, Bishan Singh Bedi wonders how cricket became more of entertainment than a game. "Public interest was always there in cricket, and   and cricket were always the two means of entertainment for people, but no one was chased by the paparazzi as they are now," Bedi tells us. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Talking about the time when Mansoor Ali Khan Pataudi married actress  , he says, "When Tiger was marrying a film actress, it was one big wedding, but he managed to keep it within the family. Tiger was a very private person."
 
 
 
 Bishan Singh Bedi has often spoken about the importance of fitness for players. He tells us that it is sad that today, in the Indian cricket team, there are hardly any players like Virat Kohli who pay attention to their fitness. "When we train young players, our emphasis is on physical condition. You’ve got to be a good athlete first before becoming a good cricketer. What we try and inculcate among young kids are the 5 'S' – speed, strength, stamina, suppleness and skill. You require the four S’ first and then the skill, which applies to all kinds of games. Virat Kohli has set a beautiful example for cricketers. I have never seen anyone punishing his body like Virat, he is the only one. I am not sure if the rest of the team is also making a similar effort towards fitness. Virat's intensity and overall involvement with the game is outstanding, and we can’t say this for the rest of the team. Virat is aware of the calories he has to take and the fat he has to burn. In the Indian context, this awareness is an exception. In the current Indian team, even on television, you can look at the bulges around the players' waists," Bedi says. 
 
 
  
  
 
 "In our playing days, it was said that cricket is the only sport where, by playing the game you put on weight – you play for two hours, then you have lunch, then you play for another two hours and then have tea and sandwiches, and you have drinks after the game is over. This is not the case in hockey or football. It is great to be in the gym, but on-field training is also important. Gym is a supplement. You have got to run," says Bedi.
 
 
  
  
 
