PATNA: It’s that time of the year again when, while awaiting anxiously for their Class XII examination results, students plan their career options and want a berth in a reputed institution. 

 Though there are many who want to pursue a five-year integrated law course or a four-year course in Bachelor of Design or Fashion Technology, several students hope for admission in good colleges of   or Patliputra University (the erstwhile  ) located in the state capital. Chanakya Law University, National Institute of Fashion Technology and Central University of South Bihar in the city offer such courses.
 
 Patna University has already uploaded the details of admission process on its website and the online sale and submission of admission forms to the three-year degree courses in arts, science and commerce would commence on April 20. The last date for submission of forms is May 14 and the last date of admission to all the courses is July 9, said PU registrar Rabindra Kumar.
 
 Admission to the undergraduate courses in different PU colleges is made through faculty-wise entrance tests. This year, the test for the BCom honours courses in both regular and self-financing modes will be held on May 28 and that for admission to the BA honours course on May 29. The entrance test for BSc honours course in different PU colleges will be held on May 30. 
 
 Patna   is the top destination for science students, while students of humanities and social science streams make a beeline for admission in Patna College. Vanijya Mahavidyalaya is the most preferred destination for commerce students. Besides, B N College offers degree courses in arts and science.
 
 For girls only, Patna Women’s College and Magadh Mahila College offer courses in arts, science and commerce streams. Both are NAAC-accreditated ‘A’ grade colleges.
 
 The College of Art and Crafts conducts four-year degree courses in painting, applied art, sculpture, photography and graphics for the Class XII passouts.
 
 More than a dozen ‘sunrise’ courses have been started by different colleges in the city in recent years, said Patna College sociology department head Randhir Kumar Singh.
 
 The three-year degree vocational courses running in different colleges of PU are Functional English (Patna College and B N College), Advertising, Sales Promotion and Sales Management (Patna Women’s College), BCA (B N College, Patna Science College, Magadh Mahila College, Patna Women’s College and Directorate of Distance Education),   (Patna College, B N College, Magadh Mahila College and Patna Women’s College), Biotechnology (Patna Science College and B N College), Communicative English (Patna Women’s College), Industrial Microbiology (Patna Women’s College), Mass Communications (Patna Women’s College and Patna College), Environmental Science (Patna Science College), Social Work (Magadh Mahila College) and gemmology (B N College).
 
 The now Patliputra University colleges have also been running several vocational courses under self-financing scheme for the last several years. College of Commerce runs courses in biotechnology, computer applications, business management, bioinformatics, besides some add-on courses like journalism, mass communications and counselling and rehabilitation. 
 
 A N College has been running vocational courses in biotechnology, business management, computer applications and environment and water management. Besides, it has also started some add-on courses like electronic equipment maintenance, environmental audit, tissue culture and spoken English. J D Women’s College runs courses in BCA and electronic equipment maintenance at the graduation level.
 
 Ganga Devi Mahila College imparts vocational training in tour and travel management and functional English, while Arvind Mahila College has started vocational courses in computer applications and business administration.
 
 
