In 2011, a series of motivational lectures that A   delivered in   across the country brought to his notice the gravity of   on campuses. An assistant commissioner of air intelligence unit of customs department in Madurai, Babu was told by managements of institutions about the susceptibility of students, mostly hostellers in engineering and medical colleges, to drugs. This goaded him to visit educational institutions, with the sole purpose of sensitising students about the ill-effects of drugs. When students who were benefitted by his talks, came calling to thank him, their gesture fuelled Babu to take the sensitisation forward in a big way.

 Since then, the 49-year-old has conducted anti-drugs awareness sessions in at least 174 colleges across the country. Taking his efforts to a new level, he recently created a Guinness world record for conducting the ‘largest drugs awareness lesson’ that lasted 98 minutes and 13.17 seconds and was attended by 2009 students from various colleges, in Chennai. He broke the previous Guinness record for the largest drugs awareness lesson, where only 650 students had taken part. 
 
 The Guinness record management approved him as the instructor of the record-breaking lesson, based on his expertise and experience in the field.
 
 Babu says his tenure as the head of central bureau of narcotics, preventive and intelligence cell in Chennai, between 2014 and 2017 helped him to equip himself better on the drug abuse scenario in the country.
 
 He says his target are mostly students who live in hostels, away from the scrutiny of parents and authorities are susceptible to drug abuse. "The vulnerable students fall in the age group of 13-19 and mostly get addicted through their friends. For those who are constantly exposed to drug peddlers and users, it is a fight whether to try drugs or not. My aim is to keep them from succumbing to such temptations from where there is no coming back," he says. 
 
 The most available drugs on campuses are ganja (marijuana) and LSD.
 
 In his awareness sessions, Babu gives presentations on case studies, talks to students about ill effects of drugs, anti-drug laws and how drug abuse affects the addicted person and his/her family and ruins their future.
 
 When Babu received his Guinness record certificate on Saturday, the first thing he did was to show it to his boss – the chief commissioner of customs Ranjan Kumar Routray - for having given him the opportunity to do something for society.
 
 A native of Tirunelveli who was raised in Madurai, Babu says the contentment of rescuing youths from addiction is what keeps him going.
 
 The entire event for the Guinness record was videographed and documented with the help of 50 appointed stewards, four independent witness and two approved time keepers. A few organisations lent a helping hand to the officials to attempt the record.
 
 Babu has also conducted bigger awareness programmes in the past including a talk that was attended by more than 3,000 students in a Madurai college.
 
 
