MUMBAI:   on Tuesday directed that the additional municipal commissioner hold a hearing from March 19 for   of   housing society at Worli and a developer over a showcause notice issued to its lessee, Pure Drinks, for termination of a 999-year lease.   told the HC that civic chief   had recalled an order passed in July 2016 that divided the plot into two, with a lease of only 30 years to the societies’ federation.

 A bench of Justices Ahay Oka and Riyaz Chagla directed BMC to decide on the notice within four months.
 
 Pradeep Havnur, counsel for Chandru Khemlani, a flat-owner in one of the six buildings who moved the court against division of the plot, said BMC must consider members of the societies as direct lessees as Pure Drinks had sold part of the plot in violation of lease terms. The land vests with BMC, which leased it in 18962 to Pure Drinks Pvt Ltd, a company, which was the promoter of the six buildings in Worli known as Campa Cola Compound. BMC counsel Anil Sakhare said the civic administration had divided the plot, giving one to the housing societies which were told to become a federation of societies, and the other to a developer. But he said the order had been withdrawn.
 
 BMC has to now decide if the lease should be continued in favour of Pure Drinks.
 
 Rajiv Narula, counsel of Saptarishi Residents’ Cooperative Housing Federation, an apex body of the housing societies, said BMC had been wrongly attempting to penalize the society for transfer of lease in its favour. He said the federation was challenging the condition imposed for transfer in the order passed on July 14, 2016, by deputy municipal commissioner (improvement). The order was in response to a 2010 notice.
 
 The HC had in January 2018 observed, “Prima faice, it is very difficult to understand under which jurisdiction the DMC exercised power by directing the six societies to form one federation.’’ The HC had directed the civic chief to reconsider the 2016 order, which he did and found not to be legally justifiable, and hence recalled it.
 
 Campa Cola compound has been at the centre of a controversy with the Supreme Court in 2013 having upheld demolition orders passed by BMC. The SC later allowed the six societies to move the state for regularization.
 
 Khemlani, a flat-owner since 1991, had sought to restrain BMC from granting permission to Pure Drinks, Krishna Developers or anyone else for constructing on the land.
 
 
