Nodia: The Noida Metro Rail Corporation on Monday said that it has received Rs 687.62 crore from Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for its   project. The fund is part of the Rs 970 crore equity of the Centre in the 29.9 km Noida-Greater Noida metro corridor. The balance Rs 282.38 crore, which is the subordinate debt (tax), will come next year. The Noida metro had become a joint venture between the centre and the Uttar Pradesh government after the two inked a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) earlier this month.

 According to   officials, the arrival of the fund will give wings to the project. “This will certainly help in expediting clearances and making payments,” said P D Upadhyay, executive director, NMRC who also holds the post of general manager, finance. “A board meeting will be called next month to issue the equity shares in favour of Union government besides seeking consent of the board for utilization of the money,” he said. “The board will also give its consent to issue share certificates of Rs 100 each to Union government,” he said.
 
 The NMRC will also write to the chief secretary to expedite the reconstitution of the board. Secretary, urban development, has to propose a new chairman of NMRC along with four directors. The NMRC board is supposed to have a full time managing director nominated by the UP government. Apart from these board members, functional directors will be appointed who are professional experts in various fields.
 
 In May last year, Union minister for finance Arun Jaitley had given his formal approval to release the Centre’s equity for the metro project.
 
 Upadhyay further said that a meeting is also scheduled with the Uttar Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Limited (UPPTCL) to obtain the promised power for the Aqua line, which is undergoing test trials. “We are expecting the UPPTCL to provide us power without any delay so that we can undertake oscillation trials for the corridor,” he said.
 
 “Electrical, mechanical and signalling work is almost 80% complete,” said Upadhyay. “By next month, two sets of two trains each are likely to reach Greater Noida depot. Thereafter, we will have a total of eight coaches with the two trains besides one test train of four coaches,” he added.
 
 The Noida-Greater Noida Metro corridor is chasing a target of April 2018 for commissioning.
 
 
