A   in a multitude of voices magnifies manifold, so goes the popular belief. And, probably, it is for this reason that the ‘ladainha’ evolved as a popular form of group devotion among Catholics of Goa.
But this group prayer is like none other. It is a striking expression of devotion as the verse is rendered to tunes that lend a certain folksy flavour.
 
 Simply put, a ‘ladainha’ (from the Latin word ‘litania’ or litany) is a prayer comprising a series of invocations of the names symbolic of Mother Mary or the saints, which is recited to a musical score as a thanksgiving, or to seek a favour, or cure an illness. It is a request made to these divine powers to pray and implore to God for the well-being of the faithful.
 
 With masses being held in Latin in the past, devotion was limited, says Fr Romeo Monteiro. “People couldn’t understand the language. Hence, the litany, rosaries and other forms of devotion came about, which were independently held by people without a priest,” says parish priest of Chicalim, Fr Eufemiano Miranda And while this chorus weaves a strong connection with the higher power, it also strings together a social bond among people.
 
 The traditional ‘ladainha’ (‘ladain’ or ‘ladin’ as it is commonly known) was regarded as an important observance in the village that combined piety with good neighbourliness, writes Lucio Rodrigues in his book ‘Abolim’. Be it birthdays, christenings, housewarmings, weddings, anniversaries, the feast of a patron saint, the return of an emigrant or his departure on expiry of leave, the custom was popular for such occasions.
 Typically, a ‘ladainha’ is sung by a duo. They lead a group of people with a fiddler providing accompaniment. And to add solemnity, on  , there are some litanies that require an extra solo bass voice.
 Astonishingly, there exist over 150 unique melodies for the ‘ladainha’ of Mother Mary. Salcete taluka alone has a multitude of tunes.
 
 After the transition in the official liturgical language from Latin to Konkani post 1965, the earliest known melodies were carried forward. “But these could not be arranged on the translated Konkani words of the litany.
 Being creative and accomplished musicians, the church choirmasters (‘mestre’) improvised and added their own music. Hence, many melodies came about,” informs Fr Mousinho Athaide.
 
 Another reason for the proliferation of melodies was the subtle alteration of the tunes as it was orally passed down from person to person over the years, says Fr Lino D’ Sa, who has compiled a Konkani book of 54 such melodies titled ‘Omorgit’ based on the ‘ladainha’ of Mother Mary.
 
 “These are compositions by unknown  ,   there are no books available. It was quite a daunting task for me when I first started out. Over the years, I have gone around consulting people, listening to the tunes myself and noting it down on paper. There are still many more melodies that have not made it to this book. It would require a lot of time and effort to   other villages,” 
 he says.
 
