After six decades of presence in India, French global manufacturer Thales is set to take the next big leap in India.

 Thales Group chairman and CEO Patrice Caine said India is among the top three priority markets for the manufacturing conglomerate and the company will line up “significant investments” into the country over the next 3-5 years.
 
 Thales plans to not only manufacture more in India, but also use the country as a hub for exports into other regional markets neighboring India.
 
 The company has been present in the Indian market since 1953 and draws bulk of its 300 million euros revenue from defence in the country – primarily through joint ventures. Going forward, the company hopes to make good of “challenging” but fast emerging opportunities in the field of ground transportation and aerospace. “We have ambitions to reach euro 1 billion revenues in India in the next 3-5 years,” Caine said.
 
 ‘Offset clause in defence an opportunity’
 
 Citing that the offset clause in defence contracts handed out by India is an opportunity, Caine said, it is a strong incentive to move supply chain from Europe to India. “This is one way to ensure offset obligations but more importantly to set up genuine engineering capabilities so that we can make products that will serve the domestic markets as well as for exports,” he said.
 
 The CEO said the company intends to double its overall headcount in India to about 3,000 engineers in the next 2-3 years to serve the company’s ambition of growth in India. “The quality of engineers in India – a critical input for its business plans in India – is really good,” he added.
 
 Digital security
 
 As Thales sells a lot of products in the Indian market, it also sells its cyber security solutions as a bundled suite with its products. The company has globally set up significant capabilities with respect to cyber security over the past couple of years. It plans to set-up a digital factory soon in Asia, but Caine did not disclose the location.
 
 Cyber security is a euro 500 million business for the group and is growing at about 9-11% globally every year.
 
 (The reporter was at the Thales’ headquarters in Velizy, France, at the invitation of the company).
 
 
