PUNE: The city has squandered its inherent advantages and prime among them is the geographical edge, feels M S  , the chief executive officer of  .

 “I look at Pune like a saucer. Any direction you go, you have to pass through mountains to go out of the city. So, water falls into the city catchment. Also, because of mountains all around, the city enjoys a protected climate, barring three out of 12 months,” he says.
 
 Has there been a bit of deterioration in the quality of life in the city over the years? “A bit is an understatement, a lot is the right word,” he says.
 
 Unnikrishnan, who started his career in the city in 1982, says there has been a “lot of decay” in the city’s quality of life in the past 36 years.
 
 The impact of climate change, he says, has hit Pune also. He recounts there were no air-conditioners when he joined   and having a fan was considered a luxury.
 
 “When I came in 1982, having a fan was more than sufficient. Back then, only two cabins in Thermax were air-conditioned. One was the cabin of the managing director and the other the computer room,” he recalls.
 
 “All of us sat in an office which was open and had fans. Our canteen was a greenhouse and we had creepers growing all around. Just before lunch, someone would allow water to flow through the creepers and the whole place would become an air-conditioned space. Today, I don’t think there is anything that is not air-conditioned in Thermax. Even the store room is air-conditioned,” he laments.
 
 Sitting in a glass building himself, he is “100% convinced” that the glass buildings are not suited to hot climates like India.
 
 “When you make a glass structure, you will require ACs to cool it. The average summer temperature in Pune is now 40°C. If my room is at 24°C, I am throwing out heat equivalent to 16 degrees. To make my area cooler, I am throwing my heat outside. So, the city will become warmer … The more glass structures are used, more ACs will be used and the city’s temperature will go up,” he says.
 
 “We are selfish. To make our place cooler, we are throwing our heat on the person standing outside,” he says.
 
 The right way, he thinks, is to allow air pass through the room and plant more trees so that the cooler breeze passes through the windows. Glass structures, he believes, are suited to colder countries but the dichotomy is that these technologies are getting adopted in the hotter parts of the world.
 
 “We are suitable for this climate, but we are converting our country to suit the needs of an outsider,” he says.
 
 Unnikrishnan, sporting a white cotton shirt and black trousers, gave up wearing suits eight years ago. “And I feel total chill. Sometimes I get cold, because I have less hair on my head,” he says with a smile.
 
 Given a chance to change the city, he will ban any new construction “ensure all remaining land is reserved for greenery”.
 
 “I will reinvent the rivers. The next thing to do is to ensure not a drop of sewage enters the river … In fact, 100%, the rivers can be salvaged. India is one country where they have been recreated,” he says, quoting the example of Magsaysay award winner  , also known as the waterman of India.
 
 “Any society sending primary untreated sewage into river should be heavily penalized. Any penalty within affordability is not a penalty. It has to be unaffordable so that people don’t want any punishment. We are making road in the riverbed. We are accepting that the river will never flow,” he adds, saying that the society will have to relearn as it is living against the nature.
 
 The chief of energy and environment equipment maker believes that the city can be salvaged. “There is a solution to all these … first to have a deprivation and then de-addiction of the technologies that are not suited to Indian lifestyle. And then we can reinvent,” he says.
 
 
