PUNE: Close to 30 polling stations located across the district will be relocated after they were found ‘unfit’ for polling after a survey conducted by the block level officers ( ).

 The findings of the survey, particularly the photographs, were uploaded on the Election Commission’s website recently.
 
 In a singular initiative, the state   had asked all BLO to take pictures following a specific survey on basic facilities available. The officers were also asked to take a ‘selfie’ and upload the same to the Election Commission ( ) website. The entire process was carried out over a month.
 
 A detailed report was to be shared with the election officer in-charge and action was initiated regarding the concerned polling station.
 
 Pune district deputy election officer Monica   told TOI that images of 7,534 polling stations for the basic minimum facilities were uploaded and necessary action has been initiated for new polling stations depending on the conditions represented in the photographs.
 
 “The entire process took a month. All BLO have uploaded the photos as well as the selfie to ensure that the person had indeed gone and carried out the assessment,” stated Singh.
 
 With several complaints about polling booths not having the basic facilities, including ramps, drinking water, adequate furniture, proper lighting, proper signage, toilet or even telephone facilities, the EC had directed the state’s Chief Electoral Officer to direct all districts to ensure that the polling booths follow the minimum basic requirements.
 
 Officials at the state EC told TOI that this was a special drive to check all polling stations ahead of the general elections next year “We are ensuring that polling booths in the state are in good condition and follow the minimum basic requirements. The respective district election officer will take cognisance of the photos uploaded. We will require two months’ time to assess the issue,” the official stated.
 
 Singh added that in Pune district itself they found several schools in a dilapidated condition and they have now put forth a request before the civic body to repair the school. If the repair cannot be taken up, they would assess the next best public place that can function as a polling booth.
 
 While temporary booths are put up, permanent ones at schools, post offices and community halls are checked by the BLO. The state election officials stated that all the photos are uploaded and after the necessary repair work an assessment will be undertaken so that there are no complaints about the facilities at the booth.
 
 
