NEW DELHI: Three   doctors on their way to Agra for a birthday bash were killed in a horrific high-speed crash on the   that also left four other doctors injured early on Sunday.

 
 The doctors’ speeding Toyota Innova rammed into a slower-moving mini-truck near Kaiti village in Mathura district around 2.30am, police said. The MUV dragged the truck for nearly 300 metres. It took cops half an hour to extricate the victims from the mangled vehicle.
 
 Police said all seven occupants of the Innova were resident doctors at AIIMS’ emergency medicine department.
 
 Dr Harshad Wankhade, 34, whose birthday they wanted to celebrate, died on the spot. So did Dr Yashpreet Singh, 25, and Dr Himbala, 24.
 
 Two other people were killed on the expressway on Sunday when a UP Roadways bus fell off the road as its driver dozed off near the Formula One track in Greater Noida.
 
 Police said the MUV smashed into the minitruck and got stuck to the vehicle, deputy superintendent of police Vijay Shankar Mishra said. Local police said the MUV was trying to overtake the mini-truck. The truck’s driver abandoned the vehicle and fled.
 
 The injured doctors were identified as Catherine Halam, Mahesh Kumar, Jitender Mourya and Abhinava Singh. They were first taken to a private hospital in Mathura and then to AIIMS’ Trauma Centre in New Delhi.
 
 Dr Wankhade was senior resident doctor, while the others were junior resident doctors (non-academic). “The group was headed to Agra to see the Taj Mahal and celebrate Wankhade’s birthday. He was at the wheel when the crash occurred. The minitruck was carrying iron pipes and bars,” DSP Mishra said.
 
 “Since it was very late, we assume that the driver might have fallen asleep. One of the injured doctors informed us that all of them were sleeping in the car when the accident occurred,” Mishra added.
 
 Wankhade, said to be an adventure lover, was from Balapur in Akola district of Maharashtra, while Yashpreet Singh was from Fazilka district of Punjab and Himbala from Haryana.
 
 Among the injured, Abhinava Singh hails from Bhagalpur in Bihar, Catherine Halam from Tripura, Mahesh Kumar from Madhubani in Bihar and Jitender Mourya from UP’s Hamirpur. All four are stable, doctors in AIIMS said.
 
 Halam, who suffered a facial bone fracture and hip dislocation, was operated upon. Another doctor had a fractured wrist while the other two suffered minor injuries, including fractures in the spine, ribs and hips, doctors said.
 
 Dr Randeep Guleria, director, AIIMS, New Delhi, has expressed deep condolence on the untimely and unfortunate demise of the young resident doctors. 
 
 He has constituted a team comprising dean (academic), dean (research) and registrar, along with the trauma centre chief and additional medical superintendent, to provide care to the injured and assistance to the family members of the victims.
 
