BHOPAL: State  's celebrations at party headquarters in   on Saturday over the end to   impasse with the chief minister   announcing to resign ahead of the floor test, turned out to be special with the presence of an unusual guest - the Shiv Sena. 

 Known as staunch ally of BJP for long, the saffron clad shiv sainiks joined the celebrations with Congress workers, who too were taken by surprise like the passers-by. At around 4:30 pm when Congress party workers gathered to celebrate BJP's debacle in Karnataka with sweets, fireworks, beating of drums, garlands the Shiv Sena members started coming in. Together, both the Congress and the Shiv Sena raised slogans against Prime Minister   and BJP national president Amit Shah.
 
 Slogans of "Shiv Sena zindabad" and "  zindabad" echoed simultaneously, followed by "Modi teri Hitlarshahi nahi chalegi" (slogan comparing the Prime Minister with Hitler).
 
 Bhopal district president of the Shiv Sena Ranjit Singh Thakur said, "It is not just here. The Shiv Sena is rejoicing the victory of democracy everywhere. We have come to the Congress party office to share our happiness and feel that no one is bigger than the country's Constitution. We also thank the Supreme Court for the tough stand it took on the issue."
 
 Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) media cell chief Manak Agarwal said, "The Shiv Sena joined us in the celebrations and were seen bursting crackers as well. They also said the party will support the Congress in the interest of the nation."
 
 Though Shiv Sena wields no big political influence in  , yet six months before the assembly elections, this is the biggest boost the Congress could have received - wholesome support from a BJP ally.
 
 Former Union minister and state Congress president Kamal Nath said, "Victory of truth in Karnataka today, victory of democracy, victory of law. It is now proved that the BJP was given opportunity against the tenets of the Constitution and without having a majority. This symbolises the beginning of the end of politics of divide and rule."
 
 
