KOLKATA: One of two elderly men arrested by Lake police on Tuesday for abusing and torturing two girls - aged 10 and 12 - worked as a security guard at a cooperative housing society on Gobindpur Road. 

 
 Society residents found it "hard to come to terms" with the allegations against   (60) alias Sekhar. "There is disbelief and shock around here. We are still struggling to come to terms with this. During his two-decade stint here as a security guard we have never had any complaint against him. Sankar has been with us from the first day that this society became operational. There have been times when my parents left me home alone after informing Sankar," a female college student said.
 
  An investigating officer said, "The girls would come to the society to play. They would enter the security guard's room. Witnesses told us the suspects physically abused the girls both inside the room and just outside the complex." The other suspect - Gorachand Das (56) - is a member of a local building syndicate and painted houses in the neighbourhood.
 
 According to the 10-year-old girl's aunt, she was forced to stay with them, along with her three siblings, as her parents' house in   was cramped. "About a year ago, the victim dropped out of school. A local NGO then stepped in to educate these children and helped them join dance and music classes," she told TOI. 
 
 Last Wednesday her dance instructor noticed bite marks on her. The girl then spoke in detail about the abuse she went through from the two "Dadus". She said that they touched her inappropriately and even bit her. They offered her money and chocolates to keep her from speaking up. Her statement led to her 12-year-old neighbour who had similar experiences with the two suspects.
 
 DC (southeast)   said, "We have slapped sections 10 and 12 of the POCSO Act along with   sections 354A and 354B on the suspects."
 
 The abuse, though, did not end with the arrests. "On Tuesday midnight, Sankar's brother and kin of the other suspect attacked my family for going to the police. They threatened us that the local syndicate would not spare us. On Wednesday, we went to the local Trinamool party office where the councillor promised us all help," the aunt said. Lake police said they are investigating the fresh complaint.
 
 
