MOHALI: An increase in   from 6 to 7 points to secure the Inspire fellowship has roused discontent among the students of   (IISER),  . 

 The students are of the view that they would not be able to achieve the GPA target and will be removed from scholarship list. They are mooting over staging a protest against the GPA as well as fee hike. The students held two public meetings last week on the campus and are planning to sign a petition against the revised criterion to be implemented for the scholarship.
 
 "People from various economic backgrounds come to IISER. Not all are financially strong enough to pay the tuition fee and without the aid the scholarship they will be helpless. Unlike IITs, this is not a professional institute as we won't get any jobs after getting degree. In IITs, the students can repay loans because they get jobs on completion of their course but we are research students. This is the sole reason for the introduction of this scholarship," said a first year student of BS-MS at   on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The dean of academics at IISER Prof  , said, "We have had a meeting with the student representative council. DST can set new guidelines for the eligibility. The students must achieve a particular annual GPA to be eligible for the Inspire scholarship, if they are informed beforehand to do so. However, students have their requests and we will forward them to DST for consideration who will take the final call on the same."
 
 Moreover, the students' worries have multiplied due to a hike in the fee. "It is very important that some portion of fee is covered for a non-professional institute like IISER. Now, the problem is that the students of the previous batch are paying around Rs 1 lakh majority of whom are not even covered by scholarships. Less than 50% students of the previous batch are getting scholarships. So, they are paying Rs 5 lakh for tuition and hostel fee for a course that does not guarantee a job at the least. 
 
 The government should be nurturing space for basic sciences. Whoever joins IISER has a long-term plan of pursuing PhD. The government has to secure the basic science environment," said another student. The students claim that maintaining annual GPA of 7 is difficult for certain subjects. "For students who have opted Maths along with Physics, it is difficult to maintain an annual GPA of 7. Comparatively, it is easier for Chemistry and Biology majors to achieve that grade," said a BS-MS student.
 
 
