GURUGRAM: It was an operation that involved “dimaag” and “daring” in equal loads, and in many ways exemplifies the spirit of the global village and of young India. 

 Except that from the start,   was a fraudulent operation, set up to scam US citizens of their money sitting here in Gurugram. 
 
 And their “professional outlook” began with their impressive website, built with meticulous detail. The company also maintained a   profile that shows they have 65 employees. 
 
 The co-founder’s profile says he is a computer science engineer who had worked with a small tech firm between 2004-2006, before joining a top tech firm where he worked till 2011, before starting his own company — Alethe Consulting — in 2011. The profile claims he is a big data expert who has even authored an article “Power of Big Data in Smart City Projects”.
 
 The company website further claims the company is an end-to-end IT solution provider, focused mainly on IT infrastructure domain. 
 
 “We help customers of all size and domains, in doing accelerated business and technology transformation to reduce the total cost of ownership for their IT infrastructure,” it reads. “Our mission is to help our customers to achieve accelerated business and technology transformation with our innovative and cost effective IT solutions,” it continues. As the company’s vision, the website states: “To be a global respected organisation obsessed with customer success and accelerated growth driven by a passionate team.”
 
 According to the website, the company has offices in the UK, Sarita Vihar in Delhi and Gurugram’s Sector 33. It is from the last one that they were operating the fake call centre, with nothing known about the other two addresses yet. The company claimed to have deep expertise in cloud, web, mobile and interactive UI technologies. It claims to provide its services for IT infrastructure services, system integration, consulting services, managed services and telecom infra services. The website claims the company counts up to 20 MNCs as its clients, including majors in sectors like automobile, banking and financial services, energy and utilities, manufacturing, telecom,   and retail, government, defence and education. It also lists nine global tech firms as partners.
 
 
