MUMBAI: In the eyes of the   ( ) overseeing affairs at  , the   ( ) — which had agreed to adhere to the Lodha Committee reforms last year as directed by the Supreme Court — has just done a‘U-turn’.

 
 
 In a decision that has left the CoA red-faced, the MCA has decided to hold elections for the managing committee as early as possible under a constitution that’s as “mysterious” as any in the eyes of the Vinod Rai-led committee.
 
 The MCA refuses to let the CoA know under which constitution does it intend to hold the elections — the old or the amended one — and if it happens to be the latter, then why is the association reluctant to share the amended constitution publicly.
 
 In a letter to the MCA secretary, a seething CoA says: “The CoA understands (…) all steps to form the new committee (including the elections) of the Maharashtra Cricket Association (“MCA”) are being initiated by you independently.
 
 “The CoA is surprised that a copy of the new/ amended constitution of the MCA has still not been provided as sought (vide an earlier e-mail). Without scrutinizing a copy of the new/ amended constitution of the MCA, it is not possible to confirm if the same is compliant with the recommendations of the Hon’ble Justice Lodha Committee,” says CoA’s e-mail to MCA.
 
 The association’s secretary Riyaz Bagwan has been reluctant to share the details of constitution either with the CoA or with MCA’s president Abhay Apte, who says he’s stepping down because his cooling period — under the Lodha reforms — has begun.
 
 In a classic case of left not knowing what the right is up to, a clueless CoA has warned Bagwan of the implications and potential consequences if he proceeds with the elections.
 
 Former MCA president Ajay Shirke, who has shifted base to the United Kingdom, is back in Pune for now as the drama ensues though his role in this entire matter cannot be categorically determined.
 
 Yet, the fracas between the current MCA dispensation and the CoA is only secondary in the scheme of things. The bigger headache for Maharashtra is the fact that financially, it happens to be among the weakest associations under the BCCI umbrella, burdened by loans and financial obligations in excess of Rs200 crore.
 
 Legally, say MCA insiders, it may or may not be binding on the association to share the constitution with the CoA, but technically, they're looking for trouble right now.
 
 Apte, who has concluded his term as managing committee member, says “it is imperative that (MCA) members tread carefully and think twice before taking any decision that may not be in line with what is best required for the association”.
 
 But Apte’s fears aside, the CoA firmly believes something is cooking inside the MCA and the clash is likely to only get bitter going forward.
 
 
