

 
 
 Many such surveys will be proved incorrect. The mood in Karnataka is in favour of change and media there is now reflecting the same. The campaign has exposed Congress’s claims of governance and the party’s losing streak will continue as it did in Telangana, Jammu & Kashmir, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Himachal, Maharashtra, Kerala, Delhi and other states since 2014.
 
 
 
 Congress is being punished for promoting families and its ineptitude. At the national level, one family and its interests count. It has lost the sympathy of the poor for repeatedly attacking demonetisation without understanding that this section of society fully supported noteban. The poor have strong aspirations and see in BJP the prospect of a better future.
 
 
 
 There were virtually three parties in 2013. But they are now together. What will matter in Karnataka is strong anti-incumbency, poor development, non-utilisation of funds and as many as 3,500 farm suicides. People remember the pro-farmer policies of our CM nominee B S Yeddyurappa. The loan waiver is a lollipop and cannot mask corruption and lawlessness. Murders have taken place in running metro, in buses, police is assaulted and even the Lokayukta is not safe. There have been so many political murders. The son of a ruling party MLA beat up a physically challenged person. Land and sand mafia have a free run. Sand from Malaysia is cheaper in Chennai.
 
 
 
 Bengaluru, from being a garden city is a garbage city. People have died in accidents caused by potholes. Don’t underestimate the voter anger. There will be no hung assembly.
 
 
 
 PM   began his campaign south Karnataka and you will see we have made up ground. Congress’s numbers will be sharply reduced. You will see that.   sought to divide society by proposing Lingayats as a religious minority. This move has recoiled on Congress. The community realised that this is a move to deny Yeddyurappa the chief ministership. We have appealed to all communities and have reached out to everyone. These cynical moves will fail as people can see through the malice behind them.
 
 
 
 Siddaramaih has to explain why communal and lawless organisations like Popular Front of India and its front Social Democratic Party of India are allowed to poison society with impunity. We don’t see it as a Hindutva issue but one of law and order and the inability to act against an organisation spreading communal tension. No wonder, the CM is contesting two seats, aware of the popular anger against him. Instead of making the state more secure, he has given a ticket to his son while we have denied (a ticket to Yeddyurappa’s son).
 
 
 
 The charges against BSY could not be established. People realise what is a serious issue and what matters. There are no convictions in the case of the Somashekhara Reddy and he has been a party office bearer for five years.
 
