CHANDIGARH: After Dera Sacha Sauda spokesperson  , who has gone into hiding for the past four months, now dera chairperson and close confident of Gurmeet Singh   Insan too has gone into hiding.

 According to   cops, she has gone into hiding after a special investigation team (SIT) headed by ACP Mukesh Malhotra procured her arrest warrants from the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) a fortnight ago.
 
 The SIT resorted to issuance of warrants as Vipassna failed to respond to the summons served upon her, especially those served after SIT had questioned   in the Sunaria jail last month.
 
 “Our teams are working day and night to arrest the accused. This is too early too comment , but we are on the job,” Panchkula DCP Manbir Singh said, adding, “Our teams are already camping around possible hideouts of the accused.”
 
 The SIT as well as Haryana police has already faced flak from the   and   over the issue of delay in arrest of Aditya Insan. Notably, the SIT had been dithering in arresting Vipassna even as her name had cropped up in the chargesheet as well as in confessional statements of all accused arrested in the case so far.
 
 Soon after dera head’s alleged daughter Honeypreet’s arrest, the SIT had confronted Vipassna with the former and she had also handed over a laptop and other electronic goods related to investigations.
 
 “How could you arrest a person without sufficient evidence? Arrest is not the target. We have to take the case to the logical end. As we have sufficient evidence against, hence the arrest warrants,’’ said a SIT official while justifying what stopped SIT in arresting Vipassna earlier.
 
 The officer, however, refused to reveal if the dera chairperson had been asked to surrender her passport or documents that could help her in fleeing the country.
 
 It has been established in the chargesheet that Vipassna was not only present in the meeting but also played a crucial role in Panchkula violence by making misleading statements and putting messages on social media ahead of court verdict against Gurmeet Singh.
 
 On August 25 last year, 42 persons had died in the police action as the dera followers resorted to violence after the   court in Panchkula had convicted the dera head in rape cases registered against him.
 
 
