MUMBAI: New Year's Eve revelry saw mixed sentiments Sunday night. The civic authorites firmly continued to carry out demolition activity of illegal structures and extensions inside restaurants. Those establishments that came under the hammer were understandably out of bounds for party goers, partially or fully. However, in areas where no demolition action was visible, groups of families and friends did head out to celebrate. 

 Around 9.30pm all the restaurants in Taj Mahal Hotel Colaba were full; in fact the Festivity Desk was closed for reservations.  's manager Manoj Nirgun reported one or two cancellations, "that also because the guests of the hosts were unable to make it". Tapas Bag, manager of Trishna Seafood restaurant in Fort, said the place had its usual weekend crowd, "which is anyway lower than weekends because that is when embassy staff and corporate clients arrive". Vrindavan in   and Noor Mohammedi in Bhendi Bazar also reported "normal business". On the other hand, Sakinaka, Kurla and parts of   saw the BMC raze several unauthorised portions of hotels and restaurants.
 
 Certain hoteliers informed TOI that the Kamala Mills fire and subsequent action by the civic staff saw 80% cancellation of parties that were booked a few weeks in advance. "Seldom have we such a low turnout at new year," claimed a bar owner. 
 
 A hotelier from south Mumbai complained that the ongoing raids by BMC staff was a knee-jerk reaction that had dampened business. "We were not expecting much crowd anyway, but cancellations are heavy," he added.
 
 Another sure dampener was that the supply of beer and hard liquor was affected across Mumbai and Thane. Naman Khanduja owns Sunil Beer and Wine Shop in Old Nagardas Road, Andheri East. He said, "Prices have also increased recently but that is not a deal breaker. This year supply has been so short that sales are down by half as compared to last year."
 
 Even Thane seemed to suffer a beer shortage in the run-up to the New Year. "On Friday evening multiple brands like Budweiser and Fosters were not available at most wine shops," said one resident.
 
 For the last few years the trend towards house parties is accelerating with small groups of friends and relatives enjoying a potluck meal or ordering in from nearby restaurants. "We are a group of 15-16 close friends who meet at my house December 31. The first thing we said when the 18% GST was reduced on eating out was that we could now plan a comfortable New Year Eve party," laughed   who lives in Lokhandwala Complex, Andheri.
 
