JAIPUR/ALWAR: As the Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed the revision petition of   for banning Sanjay Leela Bhansali's film ' ', Sarva Samaj Sangharsh Samiti' a group having various Rajput organisations including  , wrote to prime minister Narendra Modi urging him to issue a notification to ban the film to respect the public sentiments at large. However, home minister Gulab Chand Kataria said the state government is committed to maintain law and order. "We will ensure that law and order is maintained in the state," said Kataria. 

 The film distributors and exhibitors of the state have already announced that they are not releasing the film in Rajasthan. 
 
 NRK Reddy, additional director general (ADG), law and order, said that police are also exploring possibilities of getting para military forces. "Apart from the film, we have Jaipur Literature festival (starting from January 25) and bypolls (January 29). We will maintain law and order and won't allow anyone to take law in his hands," said Reddy. 
 
 Meanwhile, 'Sarva Samaj Sangharsh Samiti' urged PM Narendra Modi to intervene into the matter. "We have written to the prime minister to issue a notification to ban the film. The Cenre can use the section 6 of Cinematograph Act to ban a film in the country even 24 hours before its release," said Giriraj Singh Lothwara, convenor of the samiti and also president of Shree Rajput Sabha at a press conference. 
 
 Shree Rajput Karni Sena, which has been leading the protests against Padmaavat on Tuesday named a six-member panel, which includes erstwhile royals and historians, to watch the film ahead of its release. 
 
 Karni Sena's chief patron Lokendra Singh Kalvi said that the outfit has named six persons to watch the film before its release as proposed by Bhansali Productions in a letter on January 20. Historians R S Khangarot, B L Gupta, Kapil Kumar, Roshan Sharma, erstwhile Mewar royal family member Vishwaraj Singh and erstwhile Banswara royal family member Jagmal Singh are the six persons, the Karni Sena leader said. 
 
 On the other hand, Ashok Gehlot, former chief minister, said in Alwar the BJP government, prior to Gujarat elections, made it an issue. "BJP-led governments in the state and at the centre could have solved the issue on time. They deliberately delayed the issue to take its benefits in Gujarat elections," he alleged.
 
 Gehlot also alleged that be it film producers or Karni Sena, they can sit together to sort out the issue.
 
 
