NEW DELHI: The   to   stretch of Delhi Metro’s   is going to open next month. The safety inspection of the 20.6-km section is going to be carried out at the end of February and after a safety go-ahead, the stretch would be opened to public.

  (DMRC) had recently completed the trials and testing on this section of the Pink Line (Line 7) of Phase III.
 
 The Majlis   will be the first section of the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) to be opened. The Pink Line, one of the longest in Delhi Metro network, will function like an arc connecting north, northwest, west and south Delhi. The rest of the 58.59-km corridor would be completed by June this year, except for a 1.5 km stretch between Trilokpuri and   Pocket-1 due to a land issue at Trilokpuri.
 
 A DMRC spokesperson said that the section would be inspected by the Commissioner for Metro Rail Safety (CMRS) from February 26 to 28. After a green signal from the CMRS, the section can be opened for commercial operations.
 
 This section has 12 stations, including three interchange stations — Azadpur, Netaji Subhash Place and Rajouri Garden — apart from interchange facility with the Airport Express Line at Dhaula Kuan. The metro will also cross Dhaula Kuan at a height of 23.6 metres (as high as a seven-storey building) to reach South Campus from Majlis Park, which is the highest point ever reached by the Delhi Metro.
 
 Starting from Majlis Park, there would be an interchange at the next station itself — Azadpur — where the Pink Line will connect with the Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre). The next interchange station on the route is Netaji Subhash Place of Red Line (Rithala-Dilshad Garden), after which the next interchange is at Rajouri Garden, where commuters can interchange with the Blue Line (Dwarka Sector 21-Noida City Centre/Vaishali).
 
 The last interchange of the section would be between Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus and Dhaula Kuan station of the Airport Express Line. The two stations are located at a distance of about 1 km and would be connected with a walkway that would have walkators for the comfort of commuters. At present, the Airport Express Line sees a daily ridership of about 50,000, which DMRC believes will go up substantially as the high-speed corridor would now be connected to west Delhi, thanks to the Pink Line.
 
 While the existing Delhi Metro corridors are designed as radials spread across NCR, the Pink Line is conceptualised as a large ring that will connect all these corridors.
 
 
