A far-from-subtle power struggle is on between chief minister   and his deputy O Panneerselvam, with the latter openly admitting that the merger of the factions led by the two leaders in August last year was at the instance of Prime Minister  . The recent spate of expulsions of office-bearers close to dissident leader   and the ongoing re-organisation of the party have triggered divisions.   supporters insist the dramatic statements uttered on his Theni turf on Friday had the blessings of the BJP leadership and were a “veiled threat” to counter the EPS camp’s attempts to sideline him and his loyalists.

 Panneerselvam is known to play his cards cautiously; his remarks during a meeting of supporters were deliberately and strategically thought out to bring pressure on EPS and his senior associates during the current restructuring of the AIADMK, say sources close to the deputy CM. Panneerselvam’s statements that a cabinet berth had been “forced” on him and that if anyone else had to face such crises, he would have committed suicide, were also aimed at gaining the sympathy of party workers and senior party men who had aired their angst at not being “appropriately accommodated” in the new dispensation.
 
 OPS supporters say reports about the EPS camp “negotiating a deal” with the   clan to save the government in the event of an adverse verdict in a case relating to disqualification of 18 MLAs had also upset the BJP leadership and Friday’s outburst by OPS could have been well planned to rein in EPS and his supporters.
 
 “OPS never makes a political statement without a plan. There is definitely a hidden agenda behind his remarks,” said senior journalist and analyst Tharasu Shyam. “We believe that when Prime Minister Narendra Modi helped unite the two factions, certain promises are bound to have been made to accommodate OPS supporters. But it seems the EPS group is going back on its promises,” said Shyam.
 
 Following the expulsions of Dhinakaran supporters, more than 3,000 positions are vacant. “The 11-member steering committee was to have six EPS supporters and five OPS loyalists. This formula was to be maintained even in appointing new office-bearers and in the party restructuring. But problems seem to have cropped up in the choice of office bearers,” he said.
 
 Speaking to reporters in Coimbatore, Palaniswami evaded a direct reply to a query on Panneerselvam’s statement that he had agreed to merge his faction with the AIADMK at the behest of Modi.
 
 “I am not aware of what OPS said. He had struggled a lot for growth of the party. He is the coordinator of the AIADMK. We both are working together to strengthen the party,’’ said EPS, blaming the media for blowing insignificant issues out of proportion.
 
 
