HUBBAALLI: Relatives of a 23-year-old youth, declared dead by doctors at the   (KIMS) Hospital, claimed that he was alive in the mortuary, just before they were to take the body for a postmortem here on Monday.

 Though the family rushed him to a private hospital for treatment from the   mortuary, he was again declared dead.
 
 The deceased, Praveen Mule, was a resident of R M Lohiya Nagar on   in Hubballi, and was the victim of a road accident in the early hours of Monday.
 
 Prashant, the deceased’s younger brother, said, “I got a call from my friends that my brother was injured and admitted to KIMS around 3.30am. When I rushed to the hospital, the duty doctor in the casualty ward refused to treat him, claiming that he was dead, and directed the staff to shift him to the mortuary.”
 
 Around 6am, Mule’s relative Tukaram Bhosale went to the mortuary for a panchanama, but the staff there did not allow him in, and asked him to come around 10.30am. “When I went with my friends to the mortuary, the staff there removed the body from the freezer. There, we saw his body stirring. Realizing that he was still alive, we called doctors but none came forward. Without wasting time, we shifted him to a private hospital in an ambulance, but doctors who attended to him declared him dead. If we had shifted him 20-30 minutes earlier, he would have been alive,” an emotional Bhosale alleged.
 
 Dr  , director, KIMS, however denied these allegations. “Our duty doctor in casualty had declared Mule brought dead, after conducting the necessary tests. There is no question of taking any action against our duty doctor. We had even asked the parents of the deceased to get the postmortem done in any private hospital, if they had any doubts, but they refused.”
 
 M F  , a traffic police constable who was present at the mortuary said: “One of the relatives of the deceased had come for panchanama but he claimed that he found Mule alive. When I went to call doctors to the mortuary, the relatives took him to a private hospital in an ambulance for treatment, but again returned with the body.”
 
 The relatives and friends then staged a protest, leading to tension at KIMS premises for several hours. They alleged that KIMS staff had shifted Mule to the mortuary before doctors declared him dead, and placed him in the mortuary freezer for six hours.
 
 Renuka Sukumar, DCP (Law and Order), Hubballi-Dharwad, said police registered a case of negligence against doctors at KIMS Hospital, in connection with Praveen’s case. She said police will conduct a thorough inquiry into the incident to unearth the truth.
 
 
