MUMBAI: The   has ordered the   to reconstruct a food stall at   within a month at its own cost, which it had illegally demolished last year.

 
 The petitioner, G Mourya, had alleged that the demolition was carried out at the behest of local  . 
 
 The MLA neither responded to the notice served to her nor appeared in court. But she told TOI, “I was not aware that Mourya had been assigned the space. As there was a demand for a sanitary pad vending outlet, I decided to set up a women’s welfare centre. When I did not get an NOC from the BMC, I withdrew my application from the collector. I have not coerced anyone as the centre was for a public cause. The dispute is between the BMC and the stall owner.”
 
 In May 2017, the BMC demolished Annadata Aahar Kendra to widen D N Nagar Link Road. Mourya, the owner, was allotted an alternative site at Oshiwara on the BMC’s amenity plot. Mourya spent Rs 4 lakh to construct the 10x12ft kendra after the BMC sanctioned his plans.
 
 On June 1, 2017, Lavekar, in a letter to the district collector, informed that a women’s welfare centre could be constructed on a plot in Oshiwara, which is available, and she was willing to contribute Rs 25 lakh from her MLA local area fund. The next day, the BMC issued a letter to Mourya cancelling the allotment on its amenity plot and directed him to remove the stall. On June 9, 2017, it was demolished. 
 
 Mourya then approached the high court for quashing the June 2, 2017, letter issued by the local K-West ward office and for reconstruction of the stall. The court observed that the BMC in its letter had cited no reason for cancellation of the allotment including. “The allegation in the affidavit that the petitioner carried out illegal construction clearly appears to be an afterthought,” observed the court.
 
 A division bench of Justices Iqbal Chagla and Abhay Oka said the BMC letter was issued in “gross breach of the principles of natural justice”. “Moreover, the letter contains no reasons. An attempt is made to supply reasons by filing an affidavit in reply which is not permissible in law. The petitioner has been deprived of his livelihood by illegal demolition of the newly constructed stall,” said the bench.
 
 
