Jaipur: The cycle of moon in 24 phases, murals of ancient Jain paintings, replica of a rectangular stepwell, sculptures, astronomical coding combined with live classical and pop performances at the Madhvarti open theatre, evoking plays at the auditorium and a vibrant discussion at the Krishmayan sound like a description of a mega cultural-cum musical fair. But the multiple experience of culture, ancient wisdom, performing and visual arts are a year-long phenomena at the picturesque Jawahar Kala Kendra (JKK) spread over nine acres of land in the heart of Jaipur.

 Designed in 1993, by Indian architect of international repute Charles Correa, the JKK resembles the square grid plan of Jaipur (Walled City). Based on a concept of Navgraha (nine planets), the cultural centre has been an exclusive platform for artists of international, national and local repute. It has eight museums, one amphitheatre, a fast coming up library, display rooms, cafeteria, hostel and an art-studio. The show stoppers are, however, the renovated art galleries all of which have hosted different modern arts forms.
 
 Every day almost 2,000-3,000 visitors come to this cultural hub, the crowd swelling to 10,000 on days that boast a good line-up. The most encouraging part for JKK, that has recently been listed as a tourist attraction, is frequent stoppage of tourist buses bringing domestic and international visitors. In the past six months alone, the centre has hosted Bollywood actor Naseeruddin Shah, flautist Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia, classical singer Shubha Mudgal along with noted international artists David Walker, Shoogle Nifti. 
 
 JKK’s Navras has become a most celebrated cultural extravaganza programme spread over nine days. Another feat which rarely has a parallel in the country is Bookaroo, a book festival for kids. The first edition of the event drew 9,000 kids making it the most popular children book festival in the country.
 
 Commenting on the transformation, Anuradha Singh, additional director general of JKK, says that the centre is gradually becoming a most sought after place for artists in the country. "The JKK administration has reached out to most of the cultural centres and embassies in Delhi for programmes. Our aim is to curate events including classical and contemporary forms across all genres of various arts," said Singh. The three main functional heads under which programming occur are performing arts, visual arts and film and literature. 
 
 eom
 
 
