RANCHI: JMM chief   on Friday accused the   (CBI) of using false evidences to implicate him in the   murder case. Soren's statement comes a day after the   acquitted him in the case. 

 Soren's personal assistant Sashinath Jharkhand had gone missing on March 22, 1994. Later, a body was recovered from the Piska area of Ranchi which CBI claimed was Jha's. The central agency built its arguments around the recovery of a skeleton from Nagri village in Ranchi. The agency had blamed Soren and his aide Nand Kishore Mehta for the murder.
 
 Soren kept quiet throughout the meeting with JMM MP and senior advocate of Supreme Court Sanjiv Kumar taking charge of the briefing.
 
 Kumar said, "On the day of recovery of the body, a Muslim family had claimed that the mortal remains were of their family member Alim. They identified the body from the belt and the armlets. The CBI, however, never visited the family to get further information. Jha's family members had also initially refused to give samples for DNA matching with the body."
 
 "The CBI wanted to implicate Soren in the case. However, the HC in its finding stated that remains produced by CBI was not of Sashinath Jha and acquitted Soren and co-accused Mehta. CBI challenged the decision in the Supreme Court. After a trial that lasted for around four-and-a-half years, the Supreme Court finally upheld the HC's decision in the case," he said.
 
 "I would advise my client Mehta to file a case for investigation to ascertain whose body was recovered from the Piska area. If it is found to be of Alim, then CBI planted false evidence and also misled Alim's family, which is a crime. Investigation would also reveal the persons behind the conspiracy in order to implicate Guruji. It was the responsibility of CBI to find out where Jha is," he said. 
 
 He said that during the trial, Soren had to remain in jail for several years. His family was badly affected due to the imprisonment. He added that the JMM supremo's image was also affected in the public eye.
 
 
