AHMEDABAD: The   has admitted appeals filed by 30 convicts in the 2002   train burning case against   high court’s order upholding their conviction and punishment of life imprisonment.

 A bench of Justice A M Khanwilkar and Justice D Y Chandrachud on Friday issued notice to Gujarat government and sought its reply over bail petitions filed by the convicts within six weeks,
 
 The convicts have moved the apex court after a division bench of the high court in October last year upheld their conviction. A bench of Justice A S Dave and Justive G R Udhwani commuted death penalty to life imprisonment for 11 persons including Abdul Rehman Dhantiya alias Jamburo.
 
 Before this, a special court had in 2011 convicted 31 of the 94 accused for torching the S-6 coach of the Sabarmati Express near Godhra station on February 27, 2002, in which 69 passengers including karsevaks returning from Ayodhya were charred to death. 
 
 This incident triggered state-wide communal riots which lasted for the next couple of months and claimed more than 1,000 lives.
 
 After the incident, local police carried out an investigation and filed 19 chargesheets against 95 persons.
 
  In 2008, in response to a PIL filed by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), the apex court constituted a special investigation team (SIT) and ordered it to investigate nine riots cases further, which included the Godhra carnage case. The SIT did not implicate anybody other than those booked by Gujarat police in this case.
 
 Meanwhile, the accused in this case were charged under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (Pota) which resulted in the continual denial of bail to them for the first few years. The high court quashed Pota charges in this case after the Pota repeal committee recommended withdrawal of the terrorism charge in this case.
 
 In February 2011, special judge P R Patel delivered a verdict and award death sentences to 11 persons and life imprisonment to 20. 
 
 During the pendency of the appeals before the HC, one convict, Shaukat Patadia alias Bhano, died in jail.
 
 
