Popular sitcom   is back with Season 3. Considering it has made a return to the small screen after a decade, the expectations from the family drama are quite high. Does it manage to live up to the hype? Yes. Even though the sequences are a little disjointed, the antics of the Parekh family continue to entertain.

 
 Just like the previous seasons, the show centers around Babuji a.k.a Tulsidas Parekh ( ), Praful ( ), Hansa ( ), Jayshree ( ) and Himanshu (JD Majethia). It deals with their plight as they are conned by a builder, who leaves the construction of their house incomplete. Hence, there are no walls and windows, which causes laughter time and again. The sad tale doesn't just end there. They also have to face the wrath of people, who had invested in the housing project started by them. With people threatening them left, right and centre, the Parekh family is left to fend for itself. 
 
 The show makes you nostalgic as Bapu Ji and Jayshree create comic moments with their banter. The famous "Jayshree, chai la rahi ho ya bahar se mangwaon?" brings a smile on the face. Praful teaching Hansa 'English' words in his style is funny. The gestures and dialogues take you back in time. Be it looting the bank or boasting of Himanshu's (lack of) talent in painting, the scenes evoke laughter due to the simplicity and innocence of the Parekh family. 
 
 The show provides a light take on the tragedies of life. The scene where Bapuji decides to commit suicide after receiving death threat from Bhavaskar madam (Renuka Shahane) is made hilarious with twisted commentary from Hansa, Jayshree, Praful and Himanshu. Similarly, when Hansa is lost, their going to the morgue turns out to be one crazy affair. 
 
 The fact that all the original cast is back to play their parts works in the favour of the show as they do complete justice to the roles. Vandana Pathak is the good old gossip-monger Jayshree, Anang Desai entertains as Tulsidas Parekh, Rajeev Mehta's comic gestures are unmissable, and J.D. Majethia plays his part with all sincerity. Renuka Shahane's presence on the show comes as a pleasant surprise. 
 
 The two episodes that have aired so far bring laughter in abundance but the sequences look disconnected. The bank loot is followed by Jayshree discovering Himanshu's unique talent in painting, is an example. While mostly the show moves at a swift pace, there are some parts that drag.
 
 While it might not be all perfect in its comeback, the show mostly entertains and is a refreshing change from the usual that we see on the small screen. 
 
 
