MUMBAI: Mere allegation of negligence cannot warrant paying compensation in cases of accidental death, the Bombay high court observed recently. The HC dismissed a plea by a   resident seeking compensation from an electricity company for the death of her son due to electrocution.

  alleged that her son Saddam (17) died in 2010 due to negligence of Reliance Infrastructure’s power distribution company Bombay Suburban Electricity Supply (BSES)Company, now called Reliance Energy. But a bench headed by Justice   on January 19 declined to entertain her plea and said that it would be maintainable only if she succeeds in producing “undisputed facts” that clearly revealed negligence.
 
 Khan’s advocate E A   argued that a few days ago, BSES had laid underground cables. He said on June 18, 2010 Saddam came in contact with a wire connected to a power distribution box that was open. As it had rained a day before, water had accumulated around it. He said Saddam was walking by the roadside when the wire touched him and he was flung into a nearby nallah.
 
 “There was another piece of live wire in the water and he was electrocuted,” said Sasi. Denying the exposed wire belonged to it and that it compromised public safety,   said there was rampant power theft by locals near the spot where the accident took place. It was likely that some resident left the box open and threw the live wire into the water. The bench questioned if Reliance can be held liable if death was due to the act of a third party. “You can’t merely allege that the respondent was negligent and expect that compensation be awarded,” said the bench.
 
 The HC said compensation is awarded in cases of electrocution only if the accident is not caused by the victim’s own fault. “Once there is a clear dispute and no admission of liability, then the allegation of negligence and carelessness would have to be established and proved by the petitioner. The burden is squarely on her.” The HC said the appropriate remedy is filing a suit and it can’t convert proceedings in HC “into a trial of a suit”.
 
