NAGPUR: Three patients have alleged that they lost vision after eye surgeries by an ophthalmologist practising on Central Avenue but the doctor has completely denied all the charges. The patients have alleged that their retina got detached post-surgery apparently due to a faulty operation by Dr Suresh  . One of them has filed a case in the consumer court against the doctor.

 All three patients hail from a weaker financial background and are residents of areas like Bajariya and  , which are located near his clinic. The three patients made these allegations at a press conference last week and claimed that there were many more who are victims of a wrong surgery by Dr Yadav and have suffered vision loss.
 
 The three patients, Krishna Prajapati (53), Aakanksha Verma (5) and   had undergone different eye operations at Yadav Multispecialty Hospital. They initially experienced partial blindness which later resulted into complete loss of sight.
 
 Prajapati, who is a clerk in a private company, had cataract in his right eye for which he consulted the doctor who suggested a surgery which would cost him approximately Rs50,000. After the surgery when he lost vision in his eye, Dr Yadav referred him to another doctor in Chennai where Prajapati got to know that he had ‘detached retina’.
 
 According to Yadav, the case was a “complicated case of cataract, leading to retinal detachment post-surgery”. Apparently, a corrective surgery was also performed on him, which didn’t revert the situation.
 
 “This is not the first time that the Prajapati family members have got operated by me. And such complications do happen in few cases. I have no personal enmity with the family. I had referred him to   in Chennai. Probably his case is not being admitted in the consumer court that is why is approaching the media now. In fact, his nurse sister used to bring patients to me and I have operated on her too,” said Dr Yadav.
 
 The doctor claimed that it is for the first time in 32 years of his practice that such allegations are being levelled against him. “Prajapati is only misleading others. He is approaching small-time political leaders who are advising him to be aggressive,” he said.
 
 But Prajapati claimed that the other patients operated in their family also had many complications and have lost their eyesight.
 
 In a similar case, of which Yadav has no recollection, Gaur was experiencing poor visibility in his right eye for which he consulted Dr Yadav. The doctor demanded Rs30,000 for a surgery of which the patient paid Rs7,000 as advance. The morning after the surgery when Gaur complained about severe pain and no visibility in his operated eye, the doctor gave medicines to ease the pain but with no results. Gaur claims that the doctor didn’t demand the remaining money probably due to guilt.
 
 A five-year-old girl, Aakanksha Verma, daughter of an auto rickshaw driver and a maid had similar allegations to make after she lost vision in her right eye post operation in December 2016. Her relatives claim that she lost her vision between her two visits. 
 
 Dr Yadav claims that this was sheer negligence of patient. “I had seen the patient on December 9 after an eye injury but patient claims I saw her on December 6. She was brought to me on December 19 again when she had developed puss in an eye. Any kind of puss formation in the eye is fatal and loss of eyesight becomes unavoidable,” said Dr Yadav.
 
 Despite repeated attempts of lodging complaints at   police station, victims had no relief as the medical board headed by Dr Ashok Madan dismissed the charges against the doctor.
 
 Manoj Verma, father of Aakanksha Verma, has lodged a complaint against Yadav in the consumer court.
 
 
