MANGALURU:   due to elections, for nearly three days, especially during the weekend, have left partygoers and alcohol lovers disappointed. It has also hit the   business of bars and lounges.

 According to election officials, the ban on   is in force from 5pm on Thursday (May 10) till midnight on Saturday (May 12). The ban will again be imposed from 6pm onwards on Monday, till 12 am on Tuesday. As per the rules, there will be no supply of liquor at restaurants, clubs, star hotels and lodging homes. The ban will again come into force on the counting day on Tuesday (May 15). Being a weekend, revellers are disappointed at not being able to get liquor.
 
 Alcohol lovers, who learnt about the dry days well in advance, however had field day on Wednesday evening and Thursday, before 5pm. One could see long queues in all liquor vends in the city. “We did good business in the last few hours before the liquor ban came into force,” says a worker of a liquor shop.
 
 A lot of partying takes place in Mangaluru during weekends, and different establishments also cash in on business during the holiday season. “Night parties come alive only during weekends, as a lot of pub hoppers throng us in big numbers,” says a pub manager.
 
 He said this weekend is going to be a dull one. “It is quite disappointing. Being the season for weddings, we try to catch up with family and friends,” expressed a party lover.
 
 Another party lover feels that it is good to be home after casting one’s vote. “I have no plans other than just sitting at home and spending time with my family,” he says. Yet another party lover has planned for a house party, as his friends are coming down to exercise their rights on Saturday. “We friends will meet after a long gap, and to make our union memorable, we have organized a house party. All the booze required for the day has been bought and stored in advance,” said an employee of a private firm.
 
 Due to dry days, some people have cancelled programme like mehendi, roce and engagement parties. “Due to the prohibition on liquor, some have opted only for mocktail parties,” said an event organizer.
 
 Some of the restaurants which serve alcohol, will serve only food for the stipulated period.
 
 
