Many have wondered if  , who debuted in the Malayalam film industry six years ago, has decided to make Bollywood her home, considering the big projects with top actors that she has been signing lately.

 Her answer is an emphatic no! She, in fact, has chosen Kerala as her home and is even shifting to Kochi soon. Isha, who has also wrapped up the shoot of her next Malayalam film Ranam — Detroit Crossing, shares with us, the updates of her career and life.
 
 
 
 Right from the beginning, it was eventful. At first, I thought I am getting a series of crank calls with random people calling me from the US, regarding a project that’s too good to be true. However, everything worked out in 20 days and then I got a well-drafted message from Prithviraj. A couple of people from the industry also called. That’s when I felt, ‘Ok, this is legit’. And before I knew, I started shooting as a 16-year-old girl’s mom in Augusta, Georgia. We were there for two months.
 
 The crew was young and small, and at times I felt like doing a campus film. But it was also a multi-national team with the camera man from Bhutan, actors from US, India and Canada. That in itself was an experience. We were discussing Donald Trump, each other’s views on spirituality, how diverse our cultures are, food and more. We were also struck by a hurricane and had to stall shoot for almost three days.
 
 I used to make fun of the crew, saying they cast me only because of my US visa (laughs). I knew Mamta (Mohandas) was to do the film and fortunately or not for me, her dates didn’t work out. I know that I got very lucky. For six years, in every interview I have been saying that I want to work with Prithviraj and it finally happened with this film. 
 
 
 
 While the first was of a toddler, in God’s Own Country, in this I have a teenaged, extremely rebellious daughter. I have really aged in a matter of four years (laughs). I felt bad for my mom while I was playing my character. A Malayali girl from Canada played my daughter and it was her first film, after being an assistant director. She had raw, youthful energy, facing the camera for the first time.
 
 I also have a niece, who grew up in my house. At first, when my mom would leave home and tell me to take care of her, I would start panicking and call all my friends saying, ‘My God, she will wake up, help me!’ But I have done everything from changing diapers and feeding, to taking her for picnics. Though my character’s child is a teenager, it’s still a mom’s journey.
 
 I have a no make-up look in the film as my character doesn’t have the mind space for all that. She has a husband who is bored in a marriage and a daughter who is difficult to handle. She is rich, but is lonely and unhappy. Loneliness can really hit you in such countries, unlike here where you can walk into your friends’ place when you feel like it.
  
 I had no apprehensions playing the role and in fact, I was looking for something like that. I was done with cameos in Malayalam and didn’t want to be an actress who did just guest roles. One or two is okay, but making it a habit wasn’t great and I was getting a little worked up. And when this came, with a nice set up, story and Prithviraj, I was excited.
 
 
 
 That moment when the crew said Prithviraj, I said I don’t care what the film or story is about or that I have to play a mom, or just stand in a scene. I really wanted to work with him, and I am glad we could work abroad. The chances of getting mobbed are more here, unlike in the US, so he was relaxed. I was not star struck, and was glad this chance came by. We could talk well and I could see how he is a fun person, despite this serious image going on.
 
 Prithvi eats, breathes and lives cinema and has a thinking mind. I don’t know how much of a life he has beyond cinema, to be honest. He is constantly giving inputs, tweaking dialogues, making the film better. He was the most experienced of the lot, with almost 100 films. But that’s not thrown at you and is given in a collaborative manner. His family was also there and we ate a lot of cakes and great food. On off days, we would step out to eat and enjoy the weather.
 
 
 
 I had the good fortune of working with talented actors such as Mammukka, Fahadh Faasil, Nivin Pauly, Dulquer Salmaan, Nazriya Nazim, Nithya Menen and Parvathy in Malayalam that it’s not unnerving for me to share screen with anyone anymore. Also, you can’t perform if you are in awe of somebody.
 
 Bollywood has its own share of drama and ‘we are too cool’ kind of attitude, but mine wasn’t a regular Bollywood film. The underwater scene, for instance, was quite complicated. Kissing on camera in itself is and this, I had to do under water where you can’t hear ‘action’ or even see it. Then I had to manage a gown in this extremely cold pool in Thane, shooting this for almost 10 hours. We had to get trained to work with oxygen cylinder under water and even time the breathing with that of the co-actor.
 
 Basically, it’s not as fun as it might look. When people tell me, ‘Oh you got to kiss Saif Ali Khan’, I say, ‘Why don’t you do an underwater course and tell me how that was?’
 Up next in Hindi is Kaamyaaab, which is directed by National Award winner Hardik Mehta and stars Sanjay Mishra.
 
 
 
 I have had my whole life in Mumbai — school, friends, college, lovers, boyfriends, work, theatre. I feel now I need exposure to things outside of a city.
 The hustle and bustle of a city gets to me now. In Mumbai, you always feel you have to do something. And I don’t like that feeling anymore. I like my moments of nothingness. Kerala is a great balance. If you want a city feel, go to Panampilly Nagar and chill, and for backwaters, Alappuzha is just an hour away. You get to see sunsets and sunrises, which I can’t, in Mumbai, because of the high-rises. I feel I can also grow as a person here. I have been wanting to do kalari for a long time, and keep aside time to train in classical dance. I am also on a mission to buy peace and cut down on too much technology in my life.
 
 I also know every nook and corner of Kerala now, thanks to the shoots. For instance, there are certain beautiful places in Kothamangalam that even people who live there don’t explore much, but we actors get to because of the shoots. So, by end of March, I am shifting here.
 
 
