It was a session dedicated to debates, discussion and 'differences', when  ,   and   visited   for Women on the first day of its annual cultural festival,  . They were invited for a session on (Un)Gendering Indian Cinema, which was moderated by Anjali Bhatia, one of the professors.

  
  Ratna Pathak Shah (L) and Leena Yadav
 
 
 
 
 
  Before the interactive session with the students began, all the three speakers were given 10 minutes each to talk about the topic. As Rahul Bose joked he was the first "bakra" to be called to start the session, he said, "There are two reasons why I immediately said yes when I was asked to come here. For six years, the head of my foundation was a lady called Suchismita Bose. She is now one of the finest independent counsellors in the country. She is an extra-ordinary woman and is from LSR. I have been hearing stories about this college and its philosophy, and how it withstands social pressures to consistently foster committed, idealistic, funny, feisty, brave, complex, courageous women who are not afraid to fail. The second reason was that I am highly indebted to Priti Dhawan for being part of the panel that selected the kids for my foundation in Manipur. Clearly, this is an extraordinary place." As he got to the topic, he added, "The issue at stake is gender. Let's first understand that gender has to be handled 360 degrees, it is not going to happen overnight. There is no way on earth that gender justice is going to occur unless we raise our boys differently."
 
  
  Ratna Pathak Shah
 
  
 
  Ratna Pathak Shah started with a question, "How many of you have mothers who work?" When only a section of the students raised their hands, she asked, "What about others? Your mothers don't work? Your mothers only get dressed in the morning and go back to sleep? We should think about what we can do to change attitudes all around. Everything comes to us through cinema. Movies that make you not question, when the same thing is being shown to you again and again, what option do you have than to internalise it? I also grew up like that and it took me such a long time to figure out myself. Even today, I find it hard to ask my husband to make me a cup of tea. My instinctive feeling is, 'Nahi, mujhe banana chahiye.' Though he is happy to do it but why can't I accept it? Cinema is only a factor in this issue but it is a very important factor. Hindi films have also struggled with the idea of gender. It is not as if we started out to make (un)gendered films, aisa toh kisi ne nahi socha tha ki aisi picture banate hain jisme auroton ko sabse buri tarike se dikhayenge. Woh toh ma, behen, bhabhi type pictures banate hain na? Woh toh apne hisab se auroton ki bahut izzat kar rahe hain, par kis tarike ki izzat ho rahi hai, kahan ho rahi hai, woh poochna padega."
 
  
  Audience at the LSR applauding during the conversation
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Leena Yadav, an alumna of the college, was overwhelmed to return to her alma mater. Taking the session forward, she talked about the initial days of her journey as a 'woman director'. "When I started my career as a director in 2005, everyone kept calling me a 'woman director'. We never call male directors as 'male directors'! Then I decided that I will never make a film on women because that's what they want me to do. But I broke that with ' ' and so many interesting things happened with that. Starting from the research that began with meeting all these women in villages and as I came back to Mumbai to write the story, there came a moment of revelation when I realised that I was not writing about them, but I was writing about us."
 
  
  Associate professor Anjali Bhatia and principal Suman Sharma
 
 
 
  During the Q&A round, when a student asked Rahul about the responsibility of cinema in today's time, he replied, "The film industry is a business. People who make mainstream cinema are there to make money. When you ask, what is the responsibility of cinema? There are problems, we understand that. The girl who is stalked, stalked and stalked again and decides to submit to a boy's affection is failing because it is failing in the society. The item girl is fading and I believe gender equality and justice is letting women have a society where they have a choice. Whether they want to be a   scientist, a bar dancer as long as you have the agency to make the choice. If a woman (an actress) wants to do an item number in a film and if that makes her feel sexy and empowered, if she wants to do it, let her do it." Before he could finish his answer, Ratna interrupted him to add, "I will disagree, because how much agency does that woman have about, 'I want to show my body like this?' That is what the #MeToo movement is all about. If I am talking from the sociological point of view, I must say that this is what the society wants her to do. What are we passing on? I don’t think it is an agency."
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
