Chandigarh: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has sought registration of fresh FIR against senior Congress leader Jagdish Tytler for his alleged involvement in massacre of Sikhs in 1984 stating he should be subjected to polygraphy and narco test apart from impounding his passport.

 He lauded the role of the NDA government and home minister Rajnath Singh to bring perpetrators of the 1984 anti-Sikh massacres to the book by referring new disclosures in the case against Tytler to SIT chairman Justice S N Dhingra (retired). Terming it as a huge victory for the massacre victims, who have been waiting for justice since 33 years, Badal said even the role of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi would be under scanner for the first time because new evidence linked him directly with the Congress leaders who had led mobs that killed Sikhs in Delhi.
 
 Sukhbir said in its letter written to the SIT chairman, the Central government had asked it to investigate new facts that had emerged after Tytler’s disclosure to a television channel that he had travelled with Rajiv Gandhi in a car on November 1, 1984, in specific areas of Delhi where Sikhs were attacked and killed. The letter had also asked to investigate disclosures with reference to involvement of Congress leaders Tytler, Kamal Nath, HKL Bhagat and Sajjan Kumar in the case, said Badal. “It also states that these disclosures might have a relation with 186 cases that are being further investigated by the SIT constituted by the Supreme Court,” added Badal.
 
 The SAD chief also said the Union government had also given reference to the Nanavati Commission report that had recorded most number of Sikhs were butchered in areas where Rajiv Gandhi visited on November 1, 1984, immediately after the assassination of his mother and then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The SAD president further said, “The Nanavati Commission states that 39 Sikhs were killed in Adarsh Nagar, 35 in Sabji Mandi and 15 in Kingsway camps. These areas also witnessed burning of 12 gurdwaras, 64 factories, 133 shops and 45 houses.”
 
 Badal said the self-disclosure by Tytler stating that he had taken Rajiv Gandhi to various places in Delhi on November 1 proved a deeper conspiracy to target Sikhs in a planned manner because the areas visited by Rajiv were immediately wreaked by mayhem against the Sikh community. He also pointed out that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal was playing a dubious role in the entire matter with the Delhi health ministry stating in court since three months that its lie detector machine was out of order.
 
 
