NAGPUR: Amid doubts by a segment of activists, leaders of over 100 farmers’ rights outfits that gathered at Gandhi Ashram in Wardha on May 10, are expecting a major response to the 10-day nationwide   called from Friday.

 
 The outfits have come together under Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh (RKM), an umbrella organization.
 
 The plans were finalized during the meet in Wardha and it was decided to withhold supply of farm produce, including milk and vegetables, for the 10-day period. This is on lines of last year’s agitation in   and other parts of Western Maharashtra after which the state government announced the farm loan waiver scheme.
 
 The demands this time include increase in rates of farm produce, complete loan waiver and even lifting the ban on cow slaughter. Dhananjay Dhorde-Patil, whose agitation in Ahmednagar district which ultimately culminated into a major strike in the state last year, will also take part in the agitation.
 
 However, other leaders like Raju Shetti, the MP from  , who took part in last year’s strike will not be participating in this agitation.
 
 RKM leaders said they have got support from almost every political party, including a section of pro-farmers’ leaders in  . However, this will be in the form of solidarity and none of the parties’ platform will be used.
 
 Sandeep Gite Patil, the convenor for Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Karnataka, said it is expected that as much as 35% of the supplies will be blocked. “As this may shoot up inflation to double digit, it would cause a major embarrassment to the government,” said Gite-Patil.
 
 Sachin Taral, in-charge of Vidarbha, said initially even the activists were not very confident of response in Vidarbha. However , in the last 2-3 days, a tremendous response was seen from the   and the strike is expected to be a success.
 
 As TOI talked to farmers and activists, it was found that not much preparation is seen for the agitation. There is no buzz in Wardha and nearby areas, said a source. A group of farmers from Amravati district too refused to have seen any mobilization. There were similar reports from Yavatmal.
 
 Shivkumar Sharma, national convenor of Rashtriya Kisan Manch, said in Madhya Pradesh, the state where he operates, police have already started taking pre-emptive measures. Farmers are being asked to give a bond of Rs25,000 each stating that they will not take part in any disruptive activity.
 
 “Last year during the strike, farmers were killed in police firing at Mansaur district. So, it’s rather the state government which should give an undertaking that farmers will not be harmed,” said Sharma.
 
 Kishore Tiwari, an activist and now chairman of state government’s Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM), expressed doubts over the strike getting any major support. “The outfits are not united,” he said.
 
