CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu government has decided against sourcing river sand from  , as the key construction material in the northeastern state does not meet standards. The decision has narrowed down the state’s river sand options of importing it from overseas. Already at least three contractors have submitted their biddings to supply imported sand in the state.

 According to public works department (PWD) officials, river sand in Assam was found to be alluvial in nature. “The river sand has a mix of slush, which cannot be used for constructions,” said an official, who is privy to developments. During his visit to Chennai in the first week of January this year, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal had offered sand for construction purposes to Tamil Nadu. Ten days later, a team of PWD officials visited the river courses in the north-eastern state to explore the possibility of importing sand.
 
 However, officials said the sand did not meet the Indian standard specifications that could be used for constructions. “The northeastern state has a plenty of river sand and Assam government was also ready to provide it to other states. But, the sand does not meet the required standards for the construction sector,” the official added. Moreover, the cost of the river sand would spiral because it needs to be ferried through sea. “We do not want to pursue that option any more,” he added.
 
 The rejection of river sand from Assam has left import of sand as a sole option to tide over the sand crisis that has hit construction sector in Tamil Nadu. Sources with PWD, which is sole agency to market imported sand in the state, said three contractors based at Chennai, Delhi and Hyderabad had sent their biddings to provide imported sand.
 
 Against an average daily demand of 50,000 tonnes of sand required for the construction sector, only anywhere between 12,000 tonnes to 15,000 tonnes is available from the sand quarries. The rate of sand is hovering from Rs 100 to Rs 120 in open market.
 
 PWD issued a national tender on March 8 inviting contractors to supply imported sand through three ports namely Kamarajar Port Limited at Ennore, Adani Kattupalli Port Private Limited at Kattupalli and V O Chidambaranar Port in Tuticorin. The contractor must supply five lakh metric tonnes of imported natural river sand every month.
 
 
