JAIPUR: The   and ministers will soon be addressing people in   of the state, thanks to a pioneering 3D holographic projection technology.

 RajComp Info Services Ltd (RISL) will enable the government to beam its message about the benefits of several schemes across many parts of the state simultaneously.
 
 A special studio capable of recording high definition videos is being constructed at the secretariat. RISL deputy manager   said that holographic projection would help dissemination of information while overcoming the geographic constrains.
 
 The same technology was also extensively used by the Prime Minister   during elections campaigns in 2014. The Rajasthan is likely to become one of the few states that will use the holographic projection to inform masses about the various schemes.
 
 The messages will be recorded in the studio and streamed through mobile projection units simultaneously across remote areas of the state. The holographic technology can project a recorded video through 3D medium which gives its subject an appearance of a real person. For instances, instead of visiting every nook and corner of the state, an officials can record the message at the studio, and broadcast it through mobile projection units. The 3D hologram would make it appear as if the official was personally addressing the gathering.
 
 The officials of the RISL said that promotional messages will be directly beamed to make people aware of their rights. According to Jain, the RISL is also planning to make the project interactive. ‘As of now only recorded messaged will be projected, but at a later stage we are also planning to make this is as an interactive platform so that people could also share their experiences,” Jain said.
 
 One of the stated objectives of the project is gathering critical feedback from citizens of various remote parts of the state to assist administration, planning and execute programs in decisive manner.
 
 The project is likely to be unveiled in March this year end.
 
 
