KOCHI: The   lost power in Thrikkakara municipality on Wednesday after  's no - confidence motion was passed with the support of an independent member, who shifted side at the last moment. 

 The no - confidence motion against chairperson K K Neenu was passed with 22 votes. The LDF councillors and one independent boycotted it. LDF that had 20 councillors had come to power in 2015 with support of two independents. One of the independent was given the post of vice-chairperson. UDF had 21 councillors.
 
 Sabu Francis, an independent, resigned from the vice-chairperson's post on Wednesday morning and voted against LDF at the no - confidence motion. The election to the posts of chairperson and vice -chairperson will be held in next 10 or 15 days when chief electoral offices declares a date. Thrikkakara municipality chairperson post is reserved for women belonging to SC/ST.
 
 "The LDF chairperson is too young and she failed in performing the duties of a chairperson. She could not even formulate projects to increase the revenue of the local body. Besides, she showed discrimination against opposition councillors. All these forced us to move no - confidence motion against her," said UDF councillor P M Salim.
 
 Development standing committee chairperson Mary Kurian has been given charge of the chairperson until the election is held. It is expected that M T Omana, councillor of ward number 13 will be elected to post of chairperson.
 
 While there will be two candidates,   and P M Salim will run up to vice-chairperson post. The meeting of district congress committee to be convened next week will take a decision on it.
 
 With LDF losing power in Thrikkakara, the number of municipalities it runs has come down to five from six. While, UDF got power in six municipalities in the district. LDF runs Tripunithura, Eloor, Perumbavoor, Angamaly and Muvattupuzha municipalities. While UDF currently runs Kothamangalam, North Paravur, Piravom, Aluva and Kalamassery municipalities. The election to Thrikkakara will be held in next few days with UDF coming to power with 22 members.
 
 
