Nagpur: The state government has stopped the processing of post-matric scholarships through its portal MahaDBT, which was launched just four months ago to disburse the benefits directly into the accounts of beneficiaries. The move is likely to hit over 50,000 first-time applicants from Nagpur district, officials said. Around 32 type of post-matric scholarships are awarded to students belonging to SC/ST, VJ/NT, OBC and minority community. The sops include 100% tuition and exam fee besides Rs9,000 to Rs12,000 monetary aid for SC/ST students. Similarly, VJ/NT students get 100% tuition and exam fee and Rs4,000 aid. Minority students get Rs25,000 for locals and Rs30,000 from outside state students. Assistant commissioner of social welfare department, VM Wakulkar, said of the over 1.30 lakh applicants, 80,000 may not face problem this time. “These are renewals and we need to only check if these 80,000 students have cleared the exam or not. We are prepared to process the renewals but the disbursal for first-time applicants depends on the government,” he said. Wakulkar said first-timers have already applied on MahaDBT and the department has sought the list. “Once we get the data, we will start work on it,” he said. Last week, the government issued a notification to different departments and institutions asking them to continue scholarship processing as per the old system. The reason for suspending the process is still not clear. Officials from the tribal development and social welfare departments said students and colleges were facing technical issues like feeding college names, date of birth etc while filling the online forms. The government’s move has come as a major blow to not just students but also colleges, which are already up in arms over unpaid dues running into crores of rupees. “The government had made tall promises after launching MahaDBT. To ensure transparency, several formalities like filling Aadhaar numbers, verifying domicile status etc were completed. The students and colleges spent a lot of time doing this. It was expected that the funds would be disbursed in December. But, suddenly in January, you are asked to apply again through old process,” a college official said. He added that students may not readily agree to redo the process and the college officials too are burdened with several other things. “Many colleges have also not paid salaries in the hope that the scholarship amounts would be reimbursed. The wait has stretched longer now,” they said. Wakulkar said that he has convened a meeting of all colleges in the district on Wednesday to discuss the issue and suggest measures to minimize the impact.