An institutional approach, instead of an individual one, is required to sustainably   and avoid a Cape Town-like crisis in Pune.

 “Think of water crisis and the first thing that comes to mind is Cape Town, or perhaps Bangalore. These cities are facing an acute water crisis as their groundwater tables have dropped rapidly. Cities depend on annual average rainfall and natural resources for their water requirements. In Pune, we receive an annual average rainfall of 750mm. We have five rivers, of which two have run dry and three have been reduced to sewage lines,” said Col Shashikant Dalvi (retd), the founder of Parjanya, a   consultancy in the city. 
  
 
 As per the 1950 Census, the population of Pune was 5.12 lakh. Today, the city’s population has crossed the 40 lakhmark, forcing people to depend on tankers and borewells to meet their needs.
 
 “Newly-developed areas of Baner, Balewadi and Vimannagar are already facing an acute water scarcity. There is no mechanism for groundwater recharge. The time has come to identify problems, make communities responsible,” said Suneel Joshi, convenor of Jal Biradari, Pune. He also raised the issue of landfilling, which leads to water contamination. “The polluted water travels to Ujani dam, affecting the people staying in 28 rural areas. There is an urgent need for knowledgesharing and sensitization of people at all levels. We need continuous education about water and its management at school and college levels,” Joshi added.
 
 Experts also highlighted the need for leak detection and water balance studies to ascertain water usage.
 
 “We are water-illiterate people who do not understand the concept of water footprint. Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency in Pune had undertaken a study to map the aquifer quality and quantity in Pune, but this report was never put in the public domain. There are areas where groundwater should not increase and others where rooftop rainwater harvesting is necessary,” said Vijay Paranjpye, managing trustee of Gomukh Trust.
 
  He said Pune is getting supply without volumetric measurement, leading to a criminal waste of water. “With a nonvolumetric release and consumption, people do not feel responsible for the water they consume. People must understand the value of water and, for this, they must be charged based on the quantity they consume,” he said.
 
