MUMBAI: More than 100   officers and engineers could face inquiry and action for allowing illegal alterations and encroachments in resto-bars, pubs and restaurants in their jurisdictions. The dereliction of duty has come to the fore after the BMC found violation of rules at more than 600 establishments in the city and demolished illegal alterations like the terrace being converted into resto-bars on Saturday and Sunday.

 
 Mehta has asked all deputy municipal commissioners to form teams at local levels to check all resto-bar and ensure that fire safety norms are being complied with. The action follows the fire at   building in  . Each of the 24 administrative ward has three dedicated departments—building and factory, medical officer of health, and fire— whose primary duty is to keep a check on such violations.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Municipal commissioner   has decided to probe why the officers and engineers did not take action against the errant establishments and their role in protecting these illegal activities. It is being alleged that civic officials were not taking action against illegalities as they were being bribed.
 
 "The machinery which is responsible to ensure all the complies is missing. We will put a system in place to fix accountability of each officer. We will also probe the roles of officers and engineers who are working at ward-levels in the same capacity for years and allowed errant structures to flourish. Many establishments have taken permissions for monsoon sheds on terrace and then turned them into permanent structures. The officers and engineers were supposed to check if these shed were removed later," said Mehta.
 
 An inquiry officer is likely to be appointed to check if any civic staffer has been in the same department for years, the number of complaints received regarding violations and what action was taken. The officer may also examine financial backgrounds of such staffers and request other departments like the ACB to take over probes.
 
  of the civic engineers’ union said, "The civic chief to the lowestrung officer are responsible. Why take action only against junior staffers. We demand that seniors too be held responsible."
 
