She might be a hot-shot anchor-model and he might be a much-in-demand TV star in the Hindi industry, but Chennai ponnu   (  International 2012) and her beau   had no qualms walking around hand-in-hand at one of the busiest hotspots in the city, Besant Nagar Beach. Rochelle turned guide for Keith, showing him around, getting him to munch on sundal, bajji and spiral potatoes, and try out balloon shooting. Even as they soaked in the warm evening sun at Bessy, our lensman trailed them, getting their candid moments on camera. Rochelle and Keith, who reportedly met on a flight first, appeared together on the reality show   9. Love blossomed and the two got engaged in February last year. We caught up with the couple, who was in the city to ring in the New Year and spend some quality time with Rochelle’s family. Excerpts from a chat:

 
 
 
 : It’s cool and warm. The energy is amazing here. It’s so different from how people usually perceive the city to be. When someone thinks of a getaway to head to, Chennai usually doesn’t figure in the list. But they don’t realise how much fun it’s here.
 
 : He has been here before as well. This time around, I also took him to Mahabalipuram.
 
 : We had spent Christmas in Delhi with my family and had decided that our New Year would be in Chennai. Her sister and brother-in-law were here as well. We went out exploring the city and later, partied the night away.
 
 : The party scene is good here. We met a lot of young crowd, and it was amazing how they invented new, cool dance steps to the tracks played by the DJ. In fact, we ended up judging who was better of the lot (laughs). 
 
 
 Yes, that goes without saying. Earlier, I would come here just twice in a year. But now, my trips have become more frequent. In fact, after our engagement, there’s more room for travelling together. We don’t go out too much other than with family members. I miss the home-cooked food.
 
 
  South Indian food is so underrated. There’s so much variety here. Somehow, it’s strange that people can’t think beyond breakfast when we say south Indian food, because apart from the idli, dosa, sambar and chutney routine, there’s seafood and a lot of other local cuisine that tastes awesome. Also, Chennai has the best beaches, even better than Goa. It’s clean, and the water is better. I also like the fact that here, people take time out to meet friends. However busy you are, you always have time for family. Of course, the ECR stretch is amazing to drive on. I’ve been to Pondicherry and more recently, Mahabalipuram.
 
  
 
 We really haven’t finalised anything. We are looking at Chennai as an option for the wedding venue.
 
 
 He will go out of his way to ensure that the other person is comfortable around him. He is stable and dependable. He loves to make people laugh, but his PJs are so bad!
 
  She actually has a layered persona. She is fun and loving, but deep inside, very spiritual. It’s like, she has a dual personality. 
 
 
  Inside the Bigg Boss house, he’s done so many little things that meant the world to me then. The place and situation were such, it’s like we were fighting for our life, and having a moment with someone who cares for you is so beautiful. I think the day he proposed and we got engaged was the most romantic for me. 
 
 
  Our whole trip is based around food — he picks where he wants to eat from and I take him there and show the attractions nearby! But I would really love to take him shopping In Pondy Bazaar and Ranganathan Street!
 
  
 
 
  I speak Tamil.
 
  Ok, how will you say ‘I want water’ in Tamil?
 
 Thanni Inga Vaa.
 
 (Laughs) No, water won’t come to you!
 
  Wait, it’s Thanni Venum.
 
 Right. He understands the language. In fact, he mimics our accent very well.
 
  I’d love to do Tamil films. I think technically, it’s better than   films.
 
 
  I do on and off appearances in Chennai, like live shows I’d love to do more work here. I follow TV shows as well — I saw Bigg Boss hosted by Kamal Haasan — but I have to get an exciting offer, be it TV or movies, for me to pursue it from here. But I should say that the modelling circuit has become bigger and better. Our girls are going ahead and making a name for themselves in the US, and are part of so many international channels. And a huge shout out to all the designers and choreographers who are working with news models from the city. Not just Chennai, but even from other cities like Madurai and Coimbatore. And with Miss India now coming to every state, and crowning a state winner, I think it’s going to get better for aspiring models.
 
 
  I’ve been to Marina, but this is equally good. There are so many things happening on the beach, people are playing, and there are other fun games, too.
 Rochelle: I used to frequent this place with my friends. It’s one of my favourite hangouts.
 
 
 
