NAGPUR: Residents of   were happy after the state public works department (PWD) started widening the 3km stretch of the development plan (DP) from Manewada via Manish Nagar T-Point to Besa around two years ago. The joy proved to be short-lived after the   stopped the work midway in November last year. According to a PWD official, the work was stalled due to paucity of funds. 

 “Work has been completed only on a patch of 1km so far. Jelly stones dumped by the roadside are scattering all over, leading to minor accidents as motorcycles tend to skid on them,” said Prasanjeet Dutta, a Besa resident.
 
 The road width was to be increased from 25ft to 60ft considering the growing population and increase in vehicular traffic in this part of the city. The work was to be executed by   for Rs148.58 lakh. The work order was issued on May 12, 2016, and the deadline was November 11, 2016.
 
 The contractor took almost one and a half years to complete only a km stretch from Manewada to Manish Nagar T-Point after which the work stopped. 
 
 Team TOI, which visited the spot after receiving complaints from several residents, found that motorists, pedestrians and shop owners are facing hardships due to the incomplete stretch from Manish Nagar T-Point to Besa. The dust being generated on the road is causing health issues, including breathing problems.
 
 Increase in vehicular traffic has led to further congestion and accidents have become a daily occurrence. “No boards have been erected on the incomplete patch to warn motorists. Recently, a senior citizen was injured after the e-rickshaw he was travelling in overturned on the road,” said some residents.
 
 “Shopkeepers along the road are complaining of breathing problems caused due to the excessive dust on the road,” said Rohit Tidke, a shopkeeper. 
 
 Rohini Shirbhate, a college student, said that the road’s condition was much better before the widening work started. “The authorities concerned should take measures to complete the work without any further delay,” she said.
 
 Residents have also complained to deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Chaitanya S, who forwarded the grievances to traffic zone-IV headed by senior police inspector Shyam Sontakke. The senior PI has assured the residents of a follow-up with the authorities concerned.
 
 PWD’s executive engineer Milind Bandaokar said the road work was stopped due to non-availability of funds. “Now, provision of funds has been made and the contractor has been directed to complete the work soon,” he said.
 
 
