LUCKNOW: The  ,  , would have been appalled by the  , cow vigilantism,   and Ayodhya dispute in its current context, said his   who was in Lucknow on Monday.

 “Looking at his correspondence, autobiography and what I came to know from my family, he was indeed a very religious man, but he would have never accepted any of the current rubbish going on in the country,” said Dr Prasad.
 
 A psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who worked in 11 countries and is now settled in Gorakhpur, Dr Prasad was felicitated by a social organisation, Connect Lucknow. He added, “He had helped in the reconstruction of Somnath temple, studied Islam in considerable detail, was a devout Hindu and had several mentors who were Muslims including Maulana Mazharul Haque, whom he was closest to after Mahatma Gandhi.”
 
 Dr Prasad was only eight years old when his great grandfather died but he says that if the first President is today being portrayed as an orthodox hardliner, it is not true at all. “He fought against illiteracy, poverty and gender injustice and was clear that the sensibilities of another person should not be hurt,” said Prasad.
 
 Talking about the health care scenario in the country, Dr Prasad, himself an expert in the field, said that instead of making grand announcements about setting up several AIIMS across the country, the government should prioritise primary health care.
 
 He is of he belief that big announcements were mere gateways for garnering votes as the only immediate result.
 
 “There are several models in the world that can be adopted in India, especially the Cuba model where primary health care and preventive medicine is given the top most priority. Why do we need to stress on super speciality, when thousands in India are still dying of diarrhoea, malaria, dengue and encephalitis?,” he asked. Prasad said that when the primary health care in the country is developed, and even if they bring about results in the long run, a number of common diseases can be wiped off, especially infectious diseases.
 
 
