GREATER NOIDA: Believe it or not, three men posing as employees worked in Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority’s ( ) planning department for the past six to seven months and even cleared several files related to builder projects. 

 They were identified on Wednesday and removed from the Authority’s office.
 
 A probe has now been ordered by CEO   to ascertain how the three managed “to work” in GNIDA. But no FIR has been lodged in the matter yet.
 
 Sources, however, told TOI the three — identified as Vikrant, Deepak Choudhary and Vipin — were “planted” by some builders, in connivance with few senior GNIDA officials, for getting their projects cleared by the Authority without any hassle. The three were also paid “salaries” by these builders.
 
 The fake employees were identified after some people brought the matter to the notice of the GNIDA CEO. 
 
 “After conducting a preliminary inquiry into the matter, we found the three men were operating from the Authority’s planning department in an unauthorised manner. They were also allegedly drawing their salaries from another source. I ordered their removal from the Authority premises,” said Panda.
 
 The CEO said he has asked GNIDA’s additional CEO (ACEO) KK   to conduct a detailed inquiry into the matter. 
 
 “Gupta will inquire into how the three were allowed to function from the planning department and who was disbursing their salaries. The officials of the planning department have also been asked to explain how the three were handling official files for such a long period of time without the knowledge of senior officials,” said another official.
 
 Sources said while Vikrant and Deepak posed as managers in the planning department, Vipin claimed to be a draftsman. 
 
 Sources also said that Deepak is related to a lackey of a minister in UP chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath’s government. 
 
 Allegedly, Deepak had about six months ago also applied for placement in GNIDA on contract but due to opposition from influential persons in the government, he failed to grab the job at the GNIDA office.
 
 
