PATNA: Teachers of universities and colleges in   are likely to get revised   ( ) payscales soon. 

 The UGC has recently asked the state government to initiate action to adopt the central government scheme in this regard.
 
 In its letter to the state education secretary a few days back, the UGC has said that an undertaking may be taken from every beneficiary to the effect that any excess payment made on account of incorrect pay fixation shall be adjusted against future payments.
 
 The UGC received orders from the Union HRD ministry on November 2 last year regarding revision of pay of teachers and equivalent cadres in universities and colleges. The decision was taken by the ministry after taking into consideration the recommendations made by the   constituted by the UGC and the decision of the UGC taken at its meeting held on February 22, 2017. 
 
 The UGC letter says there shall be only three designations, namely assistant professors, associate professors and professors, in respect of teachers in universities and colleges. Hence, the principals of colleges have been kept away from the category of teachers.
 
 The revised pay structure for different categories of teachers is based on the formula followed by the  , moving from the concept of Pay Band and Academic Grade Pay (AGP) to that of Academic Levels and Cells. 
 
 The UGC letter clarifies that the principals will continue to have lien in their main academic post where they will continue to get notional promotions while they are functioning as principals. After completion of their tenure as principals, they will go back to their academic post and draw salary due in such respective academic posts, and will not continue to have the principal’s pay.
 
 The date of implementation of the revised payscales shall be January 1, 2016. There shall be no incentive in form of advance increments for obtaining PhD or MPhil degree as the incentive structure is built in the pay structure itself.
 
 There shall be two dates for grant of increment, namely January 1 and July 1 of every year, instead of existing date of July 1, provided that a teacher shall be entitled to only one annual increment on either one of these two dates, depending on the date of appointment, promotion or grant of financial upgradation. 
 
 The existing provisions on superannuation and re-employment of teachers shall continue as usual, the letter adds.
 
 Patna University Teachers’ Association president Randhir Kumar Singh has urged the chief minister to implement the revised UGC payscales at the earliest in the light of the UGC recommendations.
 
 
