TRICHY/MADURAI: Arrangements are in full swing for the much-awaited jallikattu events in Madurai and   districts. However, with the district administrations taking strict measures to enforce safety measures, the extra arrangements are boring big holes in the organizers’ pockets. “₹10 lakh has been spent to ensure that all guidelines are strictly being adhered to,” says jallikattu organiser at   village in Trichy district, S Raja.

 According to him, farmers who were already bearing the brunt of failed crops were footing the bill of the traditional sport too.
 
 Asection of the organizers had made a representation to the Trichy collector seeking help to meet the cost but there wasn’t any positive response. Most of the expenses are incurred for raising barricades, VIP gallery and roofed path for the bulls lined up outside the vadivasal until they make the entry. As many as 600 bull tamers have registered for the event scheduled for January 15.
 
 
  
 
 Members of Sri Narkadal Ilaignar Peravai in Trichy said that jallikattu would be held from 9am till 3pm. Tamers would be allowed in four batches of 150 each, who will get 90 minutes to tame the bulls. “For the first time, a motorcycle would be rewarded to the bull tamer who tames the most number of bulls,” said S Raja.
 
 The rewards include 100 ranger bicycles, 50   coins, 25 almirahs to be given to bull tamers and owners of bulls that go untamed. A total of 500 bulls have already registered for the event in this year’s jallikattu. It was in 2014 that the village witnessed jallikattu before. In Madurai district people are working round-theclock in   where the famous sport will be held on January 16. Chief minister   and deputy chief minister   are expected to attend the event.
 
 The first jallikattu of the season in Madurai will be held on Pongal day, January 14. As many as 675 bull tamers and 954 bulls have registered for the Avaniapuram event. As many as 1,188 tamers got their tokens to participate in the Palamedu event to be held on January 15.
 
 More than 300 men who did not have proper documents or found unfit, were disqualified.
 
 On Friday, registration for the game in Alanganallur was held and thousands of men, in the age group of 18 to 40, stood in long queues to register their names. Many of them had come from many southern districts to register their names.
 
 The animals brought for Alanganallur will be kept in nearby villages before being brought to the venue. Owners are vying with each other to secure the top slots to ensure that their animals get an opportunity to enter the arena before the event ends in the evening. Madurai collector  , who inspected some of the venues on Friday said all precautionary measures were being taken and steps were taken to provide basic amenities for those attending the event.
 
