Thiruvananthapuram: The Centre has decided to postpone the mandatory requirement to have global positioning system ( ) equipment and panic button connected to all public transport service vehicles till April 1, 2019. 

 The original decision that was based on the court directives in the   case verdict, was to implement them by 2017 that was subsequently extended to April 1, 2018. The Centre has sent the new notification that was issued on April 19 to all the states, including Kerala. Since next year is the year of general elections, the project is likely to get delayed further.
 
 On the basis of the Centre's directive, the state's motor vehicle department had been in the process of setting up a radar surveillance system to monitor passenger vehicles when the GPS is fitted on them. "The   is in the last stages of putting in place a radar surveillance system and a control room using the proposed GPS devices. The CDAC has been entrusted with the job and considering the deadline, we were on a fast track mode. In the wake of extended deadline, we would get more breathing space," transport commissioner K Padmakumar said.
 
 The   (C-DAC) is developing a software titled 'Suraksha Mitra' that can track, locate and give the real time data of one lakh vehicles. 
 
 The motor vehicles department has also set up a control room for tracking the vehicles. Later, the Centre had asked the state government to make it mandatory a particular technical specification (AIS-140) for all GPS equipment. On the basis of this, the CDAC has begun testing and empanelling GPS manufacturers who had expressed interest for supplying the AIS-140- specified GPS equipment.
 
 In the report submitted by justice (retd) J S Varma committee to improve safety of women in vehicles, it was recommended that all transport vehicles should be fitted with tamper-proof GPS tracking system and also display the name, age, address and contact number of all the drivers along with their photograph inside the vehicle at a prominent location. The state government has amended the Kerala Motor Vehicles Rules 1989 to insert rule 151A to incorporate the recommendations, and the amended provisions was to be made effective from April 1, 2018. 
 
 GPS will be made mandatory for all passenger as well as non-passenger public transport vehicles except two-wheelers, three-wheelers and those vehicles that do not require permits.
 
 Meanwhile, the final notification to make high-security registration plates (HSRP) mandatory for all the vehicles is also likely to get further delayed as the contempt petition against 13 states, including Kerala for not taking initiative regarding this direction, is pending before the  . 
 
 The Centre had only published a draft notification in this regard. 
 
 
