MUMBAI: To put an end to the perennial delays in announcing law results, principals from the law faculty have proposed to conduct all exams except the final-year ones at college level. If the proposal is passed by the academic council, only the final-year exams for both the law courses—three-year LLB and five-year LLB—will be conducted by  . This will also mean that most law papers will be assessed offline and results may be announced in time.

 The proposal was mooted at a meeting with the higher and technical education minister   on Monday. Principals of all law colleges affiliated to the university were in full attendance to discuss the problem. 
 
 While addressing the principals, examination controller   mentioned that over 20,000 law exam answersheets are still pending for assessment. University officials said that not many teachers are participating in the assessment process delaying the results. The university has already postponed all repeaters’ exams to June to ensure students get enough time to seek revaluation. In fact, the university had to postpone several exams because of delayed results. 
 
 “For other courses under the arts, science and commerce faculties, the first- and second-year exams are conducted by colleges. Why should law be made an exception?” asked a principal. The first- and second-year of the five-year integrated LLB programme is anyway conducted by the college, he said. The third- and fourth-year exams for five-year LLB are conducted along with the first- and second-year students of the three-year LLB, which the colleges want to conduct at their own level.
 
 Another principal from a suburban law college, said that most of them have agreed to the plan in principle. “The minister and government officials were also in agreement with the proposal floated by principals. As it was a platform for discussion, it was decided that the board of studies for law will present a proposal in the university’s academic council and it will be discussed there,” said the principal.
 
 A proposal to make it compulsory for colleges to assess answersheets equivalent to 1.5 times of their students’ strength was also discussed. But some principals pointed out that getting teachers to assess papers online during work hours has been a problem. 
 
 Tawde said that the discussion was fruitful, but the university’s academic council must take the final decision. “The university has its own autonomy and the government cannot interfere in it,” said Tawde.
 
 
