SHIMLA: Notwithstanding the fact that   high court had already cancelled the notification issued by previous   regime for the creation of a new sub-division at   in Mandi district, politics has intensified on the issue with opposition Congress and CPM trying to corner chief minister Jai Ram Thakur as Janjheli is a part of Seraj assembly constituency represented by him.

 In a judgment on January 4, the division bench of acting Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sandeep Sharma had quashed the June 27, 2016 notification regarding creation of a sub-division at Janjehli.
 
 The court had said that most of the population is towards Thunag and geographically too, it is well connected. Even climatically, Thunag is best suited as during winters Janjehli is often covered by snow, making things difficult from the viewpoint of administration.
 
 Following the court orders, the state government has created a new sub-division at Thunag and a sub-tehsil at Chhatri in Mandi district. 
 
 But several residents of Janjheli have come out against the decision. The protest has got the support of opposition parties Congress and CPM. While Congress leaders have blamed Jai Ram Thakur for cancellation of the notification, the CPM has sought amicable solution to the ongoing problem.
 
 CPM MLA from Theog Rakesh Singha has written a letter to Thakur saying a difference of opinion has arisen over the venue of SDM office, Janjheli, which the state government has hurriedly shifted to Thunag. “At this stage, I do not wish to express my opinion on the issue but as a member of the legislative assembly, I desire an amicable solution be found. Based on my experiences, delay to intervene on such and similar issues of sensitive matters only complicate the problems,” he added.
 
 Singha said the issue if allowed to prolong would ultimately weaken the unity of the people. He suggested that negotiation be initiated with the stake holders prior to which the agitated people be taken into confidence to work out the broad contours of an acceptable settlement.
 
 “In case, this procedure and method bears no fruit, you must convene an all-party meeting to arrive at a consensus,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, local BJP unit of Seraj assembly constituency has thrown its weight behind Jai Ram Thakur and accused the rivals of flaring up the issue. BJP district secretary Chaman Thakur said only two panchayats of Janjheli are opposing the decision while there is no protest in rest of Seraj assembly constituency.
 
 BJP leaders have alleged that most of the protesters opposing the court order belong to opposition parties. They also claimed that protest is being held to defame the state government.
 
 
