NEW DELHI: The ‘fugitive economic offenders’ ordinance has provided authorities powers to search people suspected of hiding data, records or proceeds of crime related to someone who has fled the country, as part of the drive to bring to book those who are avoiding the law in India.

 
 “If (authorities) have reason to believe that a person has secreted about his person or anything under his possession, ownership or control, any record or proceeds of crime which may be useful for or relevant to any proceedings under this ordinance, he may search that person and seize record or property,” the ordinance says.
 
 The ordinance goes beyond those who are avoiding action in India by fleeing to also include survey, search and seizure powers against those who are in possession of proceeds of crime, records related to it or are in possession of any property related to proceeds of crime.
 
 The ordinance — promulgated by President   within hours of the cabinet’s recommendation on Saturday — is aimed at attaching property acquired through proceeds of crime, even if it is not owned by the accused, after getting a special court to declare the person as an economic offender.
 
  
  
 
 Last month, the cabinet had cleared a bill which could not be be taken up in   due to disruptions, prompting the government to opt for an ordinance to act against those who have left the country to avoid criminal prosecution or are refusing to return and are involved in offences of Rs 100 crore or more. 
 
 It was seen to have kept cases like the   swindle and   in mind.
 
 Also, the ambit of the ordinance is quite wide and covers over two dozen offences under the   — ranging from cheating to counterfeiting of government stamp or currency notes, or its use.
 
 The scope of the ordinance will extend to other laws including offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act with public servants taking illegal gratification and then fleeing the country to avoid action also facing the prospect of being declared a fugitive economic offenders.
 
 Similarly, those fleeing after dishonour of cheques, offences under the benami property or the anti-money laundering laws or even insider trading under the Sebi Act can result in action under the new ordinance if an individual flees the country or does not return despite summons.
 
 Several offences under the Companies Act, including those related to repayment of deposits or conducting business with the intent to defraud creditors, or punishment for transactions meant to defraud creditors are also covered by the ordinance.
 
 “It is expected that a special forum be created for expeditious confiscation of the proceeds of crime, in India or abroad-,would coerce the fugitive to return to India to submit to the jurisdiction of courts in India to face the law in respect of scheduled offences,” an official statement said
 
