KOLKATA: After a brief respite, the PM2.5 count again rose above 300 µg/m3 on Tuesday morning.

 For more than two hours during the peak morning hours, when kids go to school and office-goers to their work, PM2.5 count taken at US Consulate Air Quality Monitoring station stood at 310 — five times the safe limit of 60 µg/m.3 Though this one station study does not represent the ambient air quality of the entire city, it certainly shows the trend of the day’s pollution status.
 
 However, the only solace is slight improvement of the PM2.5 count with the progress of the day. During the evening peak hours, the count plunged to 170-175 µg/m, which is still three times the safe limit.
 
 Environmentalists have raised alarm over the peakhour spike of PM2.5 particulate matter that cannot be prevented by any filter and goes straight to blood stream and lungs.
 
 The AQI generally spikes after midnight till daybreak, with the sun and the consequent heat bringing down pollution levels as the day wears on. This has not happened this season, say experts, pointing to Tuesday’s AQI figures of 311 and 310 at 9am and 10am respectively.
 
 “US Consulate is located at a place where the movement of vehicle is restricted, if PM2.5 count is so high there, it’s bound to be higher in places like   or Sinthee. So, we have to take the US Consulate figures seriously in absence of updates of automatic stations of West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB),” said auto-emission expert Somendra Mohan Ghosh.
 
 According to Ghosh, this is a dangerous trend. “Peakhour pollution is the worst since it hits everyone, from office-goers to schoolchildren and the elderly people. One can’t stop his or her outdoor activities in the morning,” he added.
 
 Environmentalists felt that air velocity and temperature might be responsible too. The unpredictable weather, they said, has a lot to do with the abnormal rise and fall of pollutants.
 
 During the morning peak hours, the prevailing temperature was 15-16°C and it might have helped trapping particulate matters at the lower level of the environment, they felt.
 
 Thin smog in the morning hours trapped particulate matters at a height of seven to ten feet, which is perilously within our breathing height. “Sooner the CNG is brought to the city to replace diesel as a fuel, better it would be. Diesel vehicles have been identified as the single biggest source of particulate pollution in the city,” said green activist Subhas Dutta.
 
