BENGALURU: A day after the Supreme Court recognised a ‘living will’ made by terminally ill patients for passive euthanasia, a prostate   in his mid-70s and under treatment at   (KMIO) was taken home after doctors convinced the family that he was not showing signs of improvement.

 “He is slowly sinking. Medicines that became unnecessary were stopped. He was admitted last week and counselling has been on for a long time. We convinced the family to take him home and suggested things they need to do without panic,” Dr Prabha Seshachar, senior consultant, palliative medicine, KMIO, said.
 
 On Friday, the   allowed withdrawal of treatment for euthanasia patients who are in coma and in irreversible condition and have willed that they should be allowed to undergo passive euthanasia.   and without being violated in the guise of terminal care is not new to Bengaluru, though. There have been instances of doctors counselling families to take patients home to enable a peaceful death and of patients, with support from their families, choosing to die at home.
 
 Malleswaram resident Vani Murthy recalled how they respected the wish of her 86-year-old father that he shouldn’t be hospitalized. He was provided with oxygen supply with help from a healthcare service at home. “He made us promise him that he would be left to die with dignity. He passed away in August 2017,” she said.
 
 “Most people panic to take care of a patient at home. But we wanted to give him the comfort of home because that’s what he wanted. He didn’t want to feel isolated in an ICU,” Vani added. Hermother-in-law, who was suffering from Alzheimer’s, too died at home six years ago as she was not willing to get hospitalised. 
 
 “We need to reassure the patient’s family that death certificate can be issued by a physician in the eventuality of death at home,” Dr Prabha said.
 
 However, death certificate is just one of the many deterrents in such cases. Six months ago, a 55-year-old road-accident victim with brain injury was brought to Hosmat hospital from Kolar. “The patient was off ventilator and breathing on his own, but was in a vegetative state. We suggested the patient’s family to take him home as no medicine would have improved his condition,” said Dr Ajit Benedict, vice-president, Hosmat hospital. “But as it was a medico-legal issue and in case of death even at home, postmortem was a must as the patient’s family had claimed for insurance in the road-accident case,” he added. 
 
 The patient was taken home and he died 10 days later. He was taken to the Kolar government hospital where postmortem was also done.
 
 
