NAGPUR: With temperatures soaring to 46.2 degrees Celsius and summer set to peak over the next ten days, Muslims who are observing holy month of  , which began from May 17, are literally feeling the heat.

 “The air-conditioners and coolers are switched right from mid morning and most of the people who come to pray stay back and rest from 12.30pm to 5pm,” says Altaf Ahmad, president of Kutchi Memon Jamaat, Sadar.
 
 “The heat is making it very difficult this year and many people are restricting their daily activities to prevent exhaustion,” he says.
 
 A roza in summer lasts over 15 hours. For an average person, fasting like this would require mental, spiritual and physical preparation. “We offer prayers five times in a day during Ramzan, this gives us a lot of mental strength,” says Aamir Noori, a postgraduate student. Though fasting can cause increased stress and moodiness, the body and the biological clock usually adjust to the worst of the discomforts within a period of 24 to 48 hours,” he says.
 
 It is after the fourth or the fifth fast that people begin to feel their energy draining, says event manager Shahbaaz Khan. “We are avoiding going out during the afternoons and indoors too were are trying to remain in cool places. But otherwise, a lot of time goes in prayers and it doesn’t seem so difficult as we are committed to this ritual,” he says.
 
 “If we are feeling thirsty then the hunger pangs are not felt at all,” says Mobin Rehman, who conducts Arabic classes during the day and again late in the evening. “But the rozas are kept for a higher purpose of attaining Jannat. Life is not a cakewalk and to get such a big reward we have to work hard,” he says.
 
 “Those who think of surviving Ramzan have got it all wrong,” feels Nadia Ahmad, a corporate sector employee. “We should understand the true spirit and intention of fasting. I don’t consider the fasts as some kind of a burden. In fact, Ramzan is a blessing that changes my entire life,” she says.
 
 Young businessman   began fasting at the age of 15. Now 26 years old, he follows the ritual very keenly. “My father  , who was a cricketer, tells us once during his younger days when it was this hot during Ramzan, he would still go out and play cricket. I am also following my routine, though all attempts are made to keep oneself hydrated by having liquids during suhoor in the morning and at ifftar,” he says.
 
 For women who are devoting long hours preparing meals for the family, the big challenge is to keep it healthy and light. “Salads and drinks made with raw mango and seasoned with fennel, cumin ginger and cardamom are very helpful in enhancing the digestive system, keeping the body hydrated and also providing the much needed energy” says  , a homemaker, who too is fasting.
 
 
