KOCHI: Delhi   Rail Corporation (DMRC) has started piling works for the Chambakkara bridge, as part of their efforts to speed up Kochi Metro works from Thykoodam to  . The   said that though land acquisition has not been completed to facilitate reconstruction of the bridge, DMRC has decided to "go ahead with construction works wherever land was available." 

 DMRC officials said in the initial stage that they would start piling works along the water body as there was no requirement of land. "We expect that as the work progresses the district administration would complete land acquisition process and handover the land. It has to be made available at least by mid-January," said the DMRC spokesperson.
 
 Earlier, the district administration had said that they would complete the land acquisition process and hand over the entire lot of 183.52 cents by December 2017. But the process still remains incomplete.
 
  "The revenue department is actively involved in it, and it wouldn't take to finish the process," said an official with the district administration. It is pointed out that the state government, officials of both DMRC and   (KMRL) should get actively involved in encouraging citizens to part with the land for the Metro project.
 
 The Metro authority also said they would begin piling works on the national highway near the police aid post at   junction in a couple of days. "We are completely prepared for the work," added the spokesperson.
 
 Regarding the progress of civil work on   (SA) Road, the Metro authority also said they expected to compete the work of cantilever bridge being built near Ernakulam South railway station by March. "We have instructed the contractors to complete the works of viaduct along SA Road by February-March. It should not go beyond this time frame as we have to hand over the viaduct to contractors, who will have start track laying, traction and other works," said the spokesperson.
 
 DMRC also said that works between Maharaja's College and Ernakulam South has also gained momentum. As the works have to be carried out without affecting flow of traffic through the MG Road, the majority of the work have to be executed at night.
 
