MUMBAI: Four state government agencies collectively lost Rs 194 crore to a conman who allegedly availed overdraft facility and withdrew 90% of their bank deposits by forging documents. With the money, the accused bought properties, paid creditors, invested in a film named ‘Rahasya’ and also put in money in Rendezvous   World (owner of   team  ). 

 Revealing the modus operandi of the accused,   Maluka alias  , senior vice-president of Showman Group, an Enforcement Directorate (ED) official said Vimal, along with his associates, would approach government agencies introducing himself as a bank representative. He would ask them to open FDs in the Malabar Hill branch of  , promising attractive returns. He had connived with then branch manager Pritam Nagarkar. With his help, Vimal withdrew up to 90% of the deposits as loan by submitting forged documents. Withdrawal of up to 90% of fixed deposit is permitted. The fraud was committed in 2014. On Monday, the ED attached his properties worth Rs 13.9 crore. 
 
 Properties worth Rs 10.3 crore were attached last September. Vimal was arrested by the CBI three years ago and he is currently in jail. The ED has also registered a separate case of money laundering against him and is probing the money trail. During the probe, ED officials learnt that after taking the loans, Vimal would channelise the money through various shell companies before investing in companies he wanted to. An official stated around Rs 8crore was invested in Rendezvous Sports World. A part of it was pumped into UVI Films, one of the producers of the film ‘Rahasya’. 
 
 Officials stated Vimal had defrauded several other companies in the past in a similar way. In many instances, he had returned the money too. Vimal would use the depositors’ money as he pleased, but on maturity would return the FD along with interest from the account of shell companies. What is intriguing is none of the depositors bothered to ask Dena Bank why their money had come from the account of an unknown company.
