KOLKATA: The   ( ) on Friday confirmed the presence of   in samples collected from the  . The confirmation came a couple of days after   admitted to water contamination.

 The water samples had been collected from Patuli, Bagha Jatin, Santoshpur, Mukundapur, Kasba and Garfa areas and sent to STM for examination.
 
  
 The STM report, which reportedly reached the KMC headquarters on Friday, has also questioned KMC’s testing methods. “According to STM doctors, delay in testing water samples affects the results. We collect water from different sources and then take them to a place before sending those to our testing laboratory at Palta. This takes time. The STM has made it clear that the collected water samples should be placed for incubation within an hour,” conceded a KMC water supply department official. He said that they will now follow the STM advice while collecting fresh samples.
 
 Meanwhile, stool samples sent to the STM from Bagha Jatin State General Hospital were found to contain Ecoli pathogen that carries toxins that trigger diarrhoeal diseases. STM had initially found E.coli in the samples. Its scientists have now detected pathogens, concluding that it is not the harmless E.coli that lives in the intestine of humans but a virulent strain that triggers diarrhoea.
 
 “The Ecoli found in the samples is the toxic type. Since we know the drug-sensitivity pattern of the bacteria, we know what medication is to be used,” said Dr Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services.
 
 “Fecal contamination of water is a major cause for outbreak of enteric diseases. Treatment becomes easier if the pathogen is identified. The difficult part will be to find out the point of contamination and mend it,” said Dr U K Bhadra, principal of ID Hospital, Beliaghata.
 
 According to doctors, Ecoli that causes diarrhoea produces a powerful toxin that damages the lining of the intestine. “Once the intestine lining is damaged, it starts producing excessive amount of fluid, triggering diarrhoea. Sometimes, the bacteria can invade the intestinal wall itself, which results in the toxin spilling into the blood stream. In such cases, it could cause renal damage and multi-organ failure,” explained Dr Shyamasis Bandyopadhyay, senior medicine consultant at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals.
 
 The symptoms can start appearing three to four days after exposure to the bacteria. In some cases, it could start as early as within 24 hours. Apart from contaminated water, one can get infected through contaminated food.
 
