MUMBAI: Hit by an  ,   lost her life on the   while another young wom-an,a  , fell from a running train into a nullah and was  , in two separate instances on Thursday.

 Jyoti Varma (17) was killed while crossing the tracks at Vidyavihar. Tejashri Vaidya (23) is on ventilator support after security personnel located her in a nullah at Sion following a long search and pulled her out. Around 3,000 commuters were killed in railway accidents last year and another 3,400 suffered injuries. Most of the deaths have occurred owing to track crossing, shows GRP data.
 
 Varma was a Class XI Commerce student at Somaiya College, Vidyavihar. She lived at Vikhroli Parksite with her family. Her father, Munnalal, works as an autorickshaw driver. Around 11am, Varma was crossing the tracks at Vidyavihar station when a down slow local hit her. The impact left her with serious injuries on her body and arms. She was rushed to Rajawadi Hospital by GRP personnel but she succumbed to her injuries and was pronounced dead around 11.30am by doctors. The GRP informed her parents and sent her body for an autopsy.
 
 Vaidya, a student of mass media and journalism, was headed to K C College in south Mumbai to appear for an examination. She boarded an up fast train from Ghatkopar and was standing on the footboard. While no witnesses could be found, police officials said the train could have been crowded as it was morning peak hour. Around 9.30am, Vaidya slipped from the footboard and fell into a nullah adjacent to the tracks between Matunga and Sion stations. Her bag and other belongings were scattered on the tracks.
 
 “We got a phone call on our ‘1512’ helpline about a woman commuter having fallen off a train. Two of our constables rushed to the stretch between Matunga and Sion stations to look for her,’ said a GRP official. Meanwhile, another passenger approached the Dadar RPF outpost and alerted them about Vaidya’s fall around 10am. “We informed the station master at Sion to keep an ambulance ready. I went to Matunga and started walking on the tracks, joining GRP personnel’s search for Vaidya. After hunting for around 10 to 15 minutes, we found her bag on the tracks but she couldn’t be seen. As we continued the search, one of us spotted Vaidya in the nullah, her head bobbing above the water,” said RPF officer HK Parhi. By then, the station master from Sion had arrived along with hamaals. Some of the cops got into the nullah and pulled her out. The group halted a Kalyan-bound slow local and lifted Vaidya into it around 10.30am. She was seriously injured. At Sion railway station, Vaidya was carried into an ambulance and rushed to the Sion Hospital. Police found her cellphone in her bag and informed her parents about the accident.
 
 “She has suffered a skull fracture besides bleeding in the brain. She is on ventilator support and is critical,” said a doctor at Sion Hospital. Vaidya’s mother, Swati, said she was thankful to security personnel for rescuing her daughter. Vaidya is pursuing her masters degree at Sathaye College in Vile Parle and is also employed at Elphinstone. She lives in Vikhroli.
 
 
