KOLKATA: There could be a major shortfall of men in uniform on the streets of Kolkata for the next 48 hours. Nearly 2,000 traffic constables have started moving out of the city from Saturday to join poll duty. This is 80% of all the personnel available at each of the 25 traffic guards. 

 
 To make matters worse for the city, even the men who take key decisions at times of crisis - the sergeants - too have been requisitioned for poll duty. Around 100 of them have been assigned duty.
 
 While commuters are fearing traffic snarls, the   top brass doesn't not seem perturbed by the development. "Yes, we are expecting massive movement after 4pm due to the declaration of board exam results. But then, traffic cops routinely go out on poll duty. We have inducted 700 new personnel as civic volunteers. Most of the  . We do not foresee any major chaos on Kolkata streets," said an officer.
 
 Sources at various traffic guards said they will focus on keeping the vehicles moving as smoothly as possible over these 48 hours. "With nearly 6,000 buses and several thousand cabs getting withdrawn from the streets of Kolkata and its surroundings owing to panchayat poll duty, congestions can be regulated," an officer from a west Kolkata traffic guard said.
 
 Most of these cops, along with 7,000 others withdrawn from other forces, will be deployed in  , rural Hooghly and Howrah, Barasat, Baruipur and the Sunderbans police district to oversee polls. 
 
 As many as 9,000 personnel in total have been requisitioned for poll duty. Of this, 7,000 are constables and home guards, 1500 are assistant sub-inspectors, 400 are sub-inspectors and 100 are sergeants.
 
 Officers said they were ready for their first panchayat polls ever at the   station. The local police station and the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department had swung into action before election, focusing on potential trouble-mongers in each area. They added that with the area bordering Bhangar witnessing continuous political strife, the vigil has been increased.
 
 Once the targets had been identified, mobile pickets were set up near their residences to keep a watch on them during the election. "This will continue till the end of the election," an officer said.
 
 
