BHOPAL: As the deadline for schools to register and upload school information on the Jagruk   portal ended on Monday evening, the district administration has geared up to initiate action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the erring schools.

 The district administration had taken the initiative in wake of Pradhyuman murder case of Haryana, wherein a kid was found with his throat slit in washroom of his school on September 8 last year. Following the murder, the district administration had taken the initiative to ensure safety of kids in schools, by making it mandatory for schools to register on the portal and furnish vital data including status of installation of CCTVs on school campuses, GPS and CCTVs in school buses, presence of female attendants in each bus, etc. However, most of the 500 schools across the district failed to do the needful.
 
 Following the tepid response, the officials gave schools a five-day to ultimatum which ended on Monday evening.
 
 Additional district magistrate Disha Nagwanshi confirmed that the administration will either write to   ( ) to seek withdrawal of NOCs of the erring schools or will opt to register cases under section 188 of the IPC.
 
 "This time, we are going tough. We have already given schools ample time to provide information. Tomorrow we will check the data we have received so far after which we will decide which among the two actions we will take against such schools," said Nagwanshi.
 
 The additional district magistrate said that action under section 188 of the IPC would be taken for violation orders of district magistrate under section 144 or CBSE would be informed about the violations and asked to cancel the NOCs.
 
 Before the schools were given the final ultimatum, only 63 private schools out of 611 registered schools in Bhopal deemed it fit to upload the information on the portal. Of the 63 schools, 38 submitted partial information. The rest 25 schools shared only the number of school buses.
 
 Strangely, only five top schools of the city gave partial information on the portal. Among the five, a prominent school was only one to have met requirement.
 
 The district administration launched ' ' portal last year and made it mandatory for all schools in the city to install real-time bus tracking system and CCTV cameras in their school buses for safety of students.
 
 Till June 2017, no school had taken the initiative seriously and no action was initiated by district administration and school education department either despite being one of the stakeholders.
 
 The web portal is based on a real-time GPS system, providing a platform for parents, schools, traffic police, regional transport office and district education office to keep a watch on school transport. Real-time information about location of school bus is the most advantageous feature of tracking system. In addition, parents will get notified if their ward gets into a wrong bus or disembarks at a wrong stoppage.
 
 The portal aims at enabling parents get updates on school buses, including their routes, drivers, details of attendants and movement of buses ferrying students.
 
 
