MUMBAI:  , but at what cost, asked the   while hearing a petition over a proposal to construct a floating   at the tip of   for a luxury floatel in the sea. The court was hearing a petition challenging the rejection of permission to the floating jetty by a HC-appointed committee which said the project would mar the scenic view of the Marine Drive promenade.

 A division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Pradeep Deshmukh frowned on the stand of MTDC, the state’s tourism body, on the issue. “MTDC is a state government undertaking and it cannot argue that it will do something that is contrary to the order of a committee appointed by the high court.   cannot support the cause of a private contractor,” observed the bench during the hearing. The bench sought to know from the Maharashtra government if it planned to take any action or investigate the role of MTDC.
 
  “Revenue from tourism is important, but at what cost?” asked the judges. The HC said that it would deliver its verdict on the plea on January 8, 2018.
 
 The petition filed by Rashmi Developer's Private Ltd, which has entered into a joint venture with MTDC for the project questioned the refusal of permission. “Can progress and tourism activities which are to generate huge and handsome revenue, besides generating job opportunities, be scuttled on the basis of unfounded apprehension about increase in traffic and impact on ambience,” the petition contended.
 
 The project proposes a floatel—on a 132-metre luxury liner built in Norway—to be anchored two nautical miles off Raj Bhavan. The contractor, whose application for a jetty near the Gateway of India was rejected by the Western Naval command for security reasons, wants to set up a 200 square metre floating jetty with a 100-metre long walkway. The proposed jetty would have waiting facilities as well as toilets for patrons. Eight high-speed boats would transfer the guests to the 320-room floatel, which will also have a helipad, four hotels and two swimming pools.
 
 The contractor claimed that it had received all the necessary permission from all the authorities including  , Western Naval Command, Coast Guard and BMC. In May 2017, a HC-appointed committee comprising of the chairman of the  , the municipal commissioner and the commissioner of police rejected the application to construct a floating jetty. The panel said that the site is part of the Marine Drive promenade and it was concerned about future traffic congestion on Netaji Subhash Chandra road. It expressed apprehension that crowd management could be an issue, besides the fact that the site was in the sea and would require coastal regulation zone clearance.
 
 The BMC said that since the committee had rejected permission for the shore infrastructure for the project, they should seek another site for the floating jetty. The lawyers for Rashmi Developers contended that the committee had no jurisdiction to decide the issue as a jetty was not a part of the Marine Drive promenade. The lawyers claimed that the floating jetty was a temporary structure that could be dismantled. They further tried to calm the apprehensions of traffic congestion and said that floatel guests would have to park their cars at a nearby mall and walk to the jetty. 
 
 
