NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old real estate developer was killed when he went to help his  , who was getting thrashed by their neighbours, in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur Enclave on Friday night.

 Police said Sumit Baisla was   by Sandeep Gupta. The fight started when the accused men got into an argument with the victim’s uncle at a marriage function.
 
 “Sandeep Gupta has been arrested. Another suspect, Ashish Kochar, is still absconding,” DCP (south) Romil Baaniya said.
 
 A preliminary probe revealed that the incident happened around 10.30pm. Both the victim and the accused are neighbours. Baisla’s uncle Rakesh had gone to attend a wedding in Fatehpur Beri village, where he had an altercation with Gupta and Kochar, who were reportedly drunk at that time.
 
 Eyewitnesses said that Gupta and Kochar misbehaved with the victim’s uncle while they were drunk, following which an argument ensued between them. Rakesh was accompanied by his son Nitin who started fighting with the accused. The argument was diffused by locals but Gupta and Kochar threatened to teach them a lesson as they walked away.
 
 Later, as Nitin was returning to his house, he met Gupta and Kochar, who started beating him up. As the scuffle ensued, Sumit heard the commotion outside and went there to intervene.
 
 During this time, Gupta pulled out a gun and fired three rounds at Sumit and Nitin. Two bullets hit Sumit in his head and chest while one grazed past Nitin’s arm. The accused then fled. Sumit was taken to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead while Nitin is out of danger.
 
 Multiple teams were formed and Gupta was arrested after a few hours of the incident. His medical reports confirmed the presence of alcohol. Both the accused and the victims are natives of Fatehpur Beri village.
 
 The victim is survived by his wife and a three-year-old daughter. Police officers said that footage from the area is being scanned to ascertain the exact sequence of events that led to the shooting.
 
 Nitin’s was recorded on Saturday and Sumit’s body was handed over to the family after autopsy.
 
 
