HYDERABAD: Technical colleges with less than 25 percent enrolment of the sanctioned intake for three consecutive years will not be granted affiliations by the   Technological University,   2018-19.

 The varsity declared this in the   and regulations booklet released recently. As per the regulations, low enrolment will result into temporary suspension of instructions in courses.
 
 
 “In case of three preceding consecutive years of low enrolment, less than 25% of university sanctioned intake in any university affiliated course, it is open to the university to refuse/grant of affiliation for that course in the ensuing academic year,” read the regulations.
 
  
  
 
 However, the institute will have to sign an undertaking to continue the facilities to the existing students till the completion of their studies in that course.
 
 The university has also decided to not consider institutions that have poor academic performance. “The academic performance of the college/institute (course wise) will be taken into account while granting affiliation. The same will be based on the pass percentage of the students, percentage of detentions (both credits and attendance), and drop outs. Colleges/institutes having consistently   will not be considered for grant of affiliation for that course for the ensuing academic year,” the regulations state.
 
 Mandatory biometric attendance will also be a major criteria to secure affiliations. “By taking the biometric attendance of faculty as evidence, the university may initiate the punitive actions like rejection of affiliation for ensuing academic year or suspension /withdrawal of affiliation for existing programs/courses,” stated the regulations.
 
 During academic year 2018-19, the university will also conduct surprise inspections as a part of academic audit for monitoring the conduct of class work, examinations as per the schedule.
 
 The university has called for a meeting with all college managements on January 20 to discuss the affiliations regulations and measures to be taken for imparting quality education including implementation of AICTE model curriculum, mandatory induction and internship programs among other important issues.
 
