CHENNAI: More than actor   taking the political plunge, his statement about adopting “spiritual politics” had resulted in a larger debate in Tamil Nadu after the superstar’s December 31 address to his fans. In a state that is covered neck-deep in Dravidian politics and the waning rationalist flavour, it did not come as a surprise that his talk about “spiritual politics” was seen more as an attempt to promote “Hindutva”.

 Right wing ideologue and editor of Tamil political magazine Thuglak, S Gurumurthy has just hinted at the various possibilities in the state’s politics by calling upon the   to align with the actor and asking it to realise the political returns such an approach could bring to it in the state.
 
 “We need a change and BJP too should realize it and dump the thought of aligning with either of the two Dravidian parties in Tamil Nadu. BJP should go on its own and align with Rajinikanth and that is sure to fetch unparalleled success,” Gurumurthy said on Sunday, delivering his address on the 48th Anniversary of Thuglak. Whether it was his wish or if he just letting the cat out of the larger ‘Hindutva’ game plan for the state, with Union Finance minister Arun Jaitley as chief guest for the occasion, only further developments can reveal.
 
 But, Rajinikanth, who is yet to even reveal the name of his party or its policy and principles, would do well to stick to his own thoughts gathered over multiple sessions with personalities across parties and even politics. Already, the actor’s soft corner for “Hindutva” is well known. It is not wrong either, as long as it remains his personal preference. But, he must be vary of taking those thoughts on to a larger political canvas in a state like Tamil Nadu. The returns could be different even in a state that is longing for a change. And Tamil Nadu had just witnessed the R K Nagar bypoll, where the BJP polled much less than the votes secured by NOTA.
 
 Shortly after announcing his preference for ‘spiritual politics’, Rajinikanth was forced to explain that he actually meant pursuing something that is being “truthful” and one that was beyond “any religion, caste or creed”. Despite his efforts, doubts linger and debates continue about whether the actor was a front for the BJP, looking for an honourable entry into the Dravidian state.
 
 As if to dispel the doubts of him being an   proponent, Rajinikanth called on ailing DMK leader, M Karunanidhi at his residence, much to the chagrin of the latter’s son, M K Stalin. Spiritualism cannot succeed and overcome the spirit of Dravidianism in Tamil Nadu, Stalin retorted promptly soon after.
 
 The actor is yet to react to Gurumurthy. But, it is likely that political prudence may see the actor skirting the issue.
 
 
