AMARAVATI: The ‘light’ of development finally reached Bulumgawhan, a remote tribal village in Dharni tehsil of Melghat tribal belt on Friday.

 The hamlet, with a population of 689 living in 105 houses nestled in towering Satpura ranges, received electricity for the first time since Independence achieved 70 years ago. 
 
 Bulumgawhan is one of the 1,000 villages in the state adopted by CM  . Every house has been provided power connection free of cost under ‘Saubhagya’ scheme of PM Narendra Modi.
 
 “I do not know who has done this work, but it is good that there’s electricity,” said Sukaraibai, in her fifties. An octogenarian Manaji Pulum, said, “I have been living in darkness since my childhood. But now I am happy.”
 
 The joy has doubled with availability of potable water from a borewell energized by solar power.   also started its service from the village on the same day. It will save them from the ordeal of walking 28km to Dharni for buying grocery and other items of daily needs.
 
 The change has came about mainly due to efforts of a youth, Anand Joshi, a village social transformation fellow (VSTF) appointed under Chief Minister Rural Development Fellowship programme. “Initially, it was hard to convince villagers about development. With guidance of collector Abhijit Bangar and help from district administration, I succeeded in changing mindset of villagers,” he told TOI. 
 
 To counter water scarcity, Joshi planned soak pits and gave the work to villagers under ‘MNREGA’ scheme. Now the village is gearing up to participate in Water Cup contest.
 
 Sarpanch Govind Kasdekar, 27, says the quality of education being imparted in Marathi is not up to the mark. Joshi, who has been living in the village since a year, is now focusing on improving quality of education. 
 
 Collector Abhijit Bangar told TOI, “It is praiseworthy to see so many development works done under   (MSTF) coming to fruition here. The effort is to ensure basic facilities in the 1,000 villages adopted by CM. Bulumgawhan is a historic step in that direction.” 
 
 
