PATNA: Biting cold and foggy weather failed to dampen the spirit of Patnaites, who thronged the Gandhi Maidan in decent number on Sunday to participate in the kite festival and savour dahi-chura and tilkut on the   day. 

 People of all age and class of society could be seen flying kites in the festival christened ‘Patang Umang Utsav’, which was organized by  , a wing of Patna commissioner’s office. 
 
 Divisional commissioner Anand   and district magistrate Kumar   jointly inaugurated the festival. It was not only the colourful kites flying in the sky, but also contemporary folk songs and mimicry which entertained those who had assembled there to enjoy the day. 
 
 Huge designer kites in shape of eagles and cartoon characters drew attention of even passersby. 
 
 Two kite flyers of international fame, Deepak Mishra ad  , had come all the way from Delhi and showcased their skills by flying their huge designer kites. 
 
 Even Kishor and Ravi with their kids could be spotted flying kites at Gandhi Maidan. 
 
 Interacting with people, the Patna DM told them to keep patience if they wanted to reach height in life like a kite in the sky. He also invited people to participate in the proposed human chain scheduled on January 21 against dowry and child marriage.
 
 Many parents could be also seen teaching their kids the art of flying kites.   of Thakur Bari Road, who had come with his five-year-old son Jai, said, “We spent our childhood in villages and used to play lots of games. Now we live in apartments and crowded colonies which lack open space. So kids do not get open space to paly outdoor games. Such programmes should be organized on regular basis for city residents.”
 
 Apart from flying kites, people also got the opportunity to tickle their taste buds with hot jalebi, dahi-chura and tilkut which were available for Rs50 a packet, or four pieces of jalebi for Rs20. 
 
  Kumar, who was selling the food item, said he had sold at least 100 packets in a couple of hours.
 
 
