GURUGRAM: Sohna block education officer (BEO) Indu Boken was hit by a stone on March 7 while she was carrying out inspection at Government Senior Secondary School Bhondsi, one of the centres for Haryana board exams. Boken was part of a flying squad conducting checks on mass   in  . 

 According to school principal Ansu Singhla, Boken had opened one of the windows after hearing a commotion outside when a   tied to a stone hit her. “On the first day of the exams (March 7), we had only two policemen in the school. However, after this incident, the security arrangement was ramped up and now, a PCR is patrolling the area,” said Singhla.
 
 However, chit-throwing continued unabated across schools on Day 6 of the exams. On Tuesday, 135 Class X students appeared for physical education   at Government Senior Secondary School, Kadarpur. TOI spotted youths throwing chits inside the school. Principal Balram Dahiya said, “The boys who are throwing chits are outsiders. I have asked cops to look into this issue.”
 
 GSSS Daulatabad is another highly sensitive centre. School principal Anju Paruthi said that her staff was scared after some outsiders climbed walls and water tanks to enter the school premises. “I have requested the local administration to increase the number of policemen at the centre to help me conduct the exams safely. I have also written to senior officers in the education department. Police should take strict action against miscreants,” he said.
 
 Paruthi added that principals should not be held responsible for disturbance outside schools. “District education officer Premlata Yadav had sent a Whatsapp message to principals on March 10, saying it was the duty of police personnel to control the situation outside examination centres and provide a safe environment. It is the duty of the cops to close the photocopy shops cropping up around exam centres to stop cases of mass cheating. If cops aren’t doing their duty efficiently and effectively, the centre superintendent and the chief superintendent cannot be held responsible,” said Paruthi.
 
 Speaking on action taken after the March 7 incident, Boken said, “I had asked the police to look into the matter. I had also informed deputy commissioner (Vinay Pratap Singh) and district education officer (Premlata Yadav) about the incident. A meeting was held with villagers and parents. I gave out photographs to them to identify stone-pelters and appropriate action was taken. When I visited the school again, everything was peaceful.” 
 
 
 
