NEW DELHI: Whenever you queue up to buy tickets or hasten to the platforms at   using the foot overbridge there, you will be glad to have aesthetic relief in the form of  , tribal art and colourful graffiti all around you. To be completed by the end of February, the work to give a cosmetic makeover to the station involves various teams of exponents from the country’s different artistic traditions imparting new hues and narratives to New Delhi’s train halt.

 Already, the concourse has been redone to depict India’s culture, while the booking area has been painted to highlight the heritage structure that was built in 1926 when the station opened. The foot overbridges, meanwhile, have been given a bright orange and blue theme, while the entrance from the Ajmeri Gate side now sports a bright red look.
 
 One positive outcome of covering the walls with art is cleanliness. “The walls, which were earlier covered in betel stains and was being used by passengers to spit at, is now brightly painted and depict different art forms and the culture of the country,” a senior railway official said. “This has also deterred the crowds from littering and spitting at these locations.” The unhygienic trend has gone down in the past two months even as the sanitation staff has been directed to ensure the walls stay clean.
 
 The beautification drive is part of the long-term action plan at the station to revamp it by changing both the aesthetics and features. Measures will include introducing new signage and advanced announcement system, coach guidance systems and providing new toilets and waiting rooms.
 
 Officials said they were yet to finalise how to paint the main entrance to the railway station, though a large hand-painted   already greets visitors there as they make their way to enquiry counters. “The Ajmeri Gate side has been painted, but we plan to give the Paharganj side a very different look,” the official said. “It will have different layers and colours to allow people to identify the railway station even from a distance.”
 
 Railway officials said the current art at the station includes Madhubani paintings, tribal art, 3D designs, palette art and Warli tribal drawings. “Our endeavour is to give world-class facilities to passengers befitting of the national capital,” asserted R N Singh, divisional manager of the Indian Railways’ Delhi Division.
 
 
