BENGALURU : Customs officials at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) kicked off the New Year with a rash of seizures, including a huge drugs haul from an exporter, who was smuggling the banned substances through courier. The   at  , on January 2, seized 11.16kg of drugs, estimated to be worth more than Rs 1 crore.

 The drugs were bound for Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Customs officials said the exporter had declared the goods as ‘assorted Indian sweets’. The consignment was packed in 17 1kg boxes with the name ‘Shree Mithai’ printed on them.
  
  
 “When the consignment was scanned at the airport courier section, we found images that did not look like sweets,” Harsh Vardhan Umre, additional commissioner of customs, said. “On opening the boxes, we found that of the 17 boxes, only six had Indian sweets. The 11 other boxes contained silvery-grey packets with another small packet concealed inside.”
 
 The packets contained a white crystalline substance. Tests proved that it was ketamine. Umre said that the cargo was booked through Fedex couriers in Chennai.
 
 “The package was collected by Fedex in Chennai and sent to Bengaluru from where it was to be shipped to Kuala Lumpur,” the department said. “Considering the sensitivity of the case, Fedex managers in Chennai and Bengaluru will be summoned.”
 
 This followed a haul of assorted pieces of gold weighing 498 grams from a person identified as Shamil Ahmed, a resident of Bhatkal, who was flying in from Dubai on January 1. The gold is estimated at Rs 15.13 lakh in the international market. The passenger, along with a woman co-traveller, had tried to conceal gold by shaping it into rivets of suitcases, the metal frame of a purse and embroidery work in a burka.
 
 In another incident the same day, Manjunath from Bengaluru was detained with two bison horns, a contravention of The Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, and provisions of the Convention on   in Endangered Species (CITES). On January 4, officials found 71.26kg of camel teeth in the baggage of two passengers — Mohan and Devati P — bound for Bangkok by Thai Air.
 
 
