AURANGABAD: A city-based woman gynaecologist is likely to come under the radar of the police after the medical board found her guilty of causing death of a pregnant woman due to negligence. 

 An officer attached to   police station told TOI, “The medical board has indicted the woman gynaecologist and accordingly, based on the primary complaint lodged by the deceased woman’s mother, we have initiated the process of registering an offence.”
 
 In cases involving allegations of death due to medical negligence, an expert medical board is formed that is headed by the dean of the   (GMCH) and comprises senior medicos from the forensic medicine and toxicology branch, a subject expert and an anaesthetist. 
 
 They study the autopsy report, medical history of the deceased, the standard treatment that should have been given is compared with the actual treatment given by the doctor before finally drawing a conclusion on the accountability of the concerned doctor. 
 
 The medical board indicting the gynaecologist is likely to create a flutter in the medical fraternity in the city as there are barely any cases here on record wherein medicos have been booked for a patient’s death.
 
 As per the complaint lodged by the 50-year old mother of the deceased woman, a copy of which is with TOI, her 25-year old daughter was married in 2013 and was expecting her second child in the first week of July 2017.
 
 When the pregnant woman was admitted to a private hospital in Ganesh Colony on June 29, the woman gynaecologist insisted on conducting a caesarean operation. The medico’s insistence forced the family to rush her to another private hospital near   on  . With the assurance from the gynaecologist that she would not go for caesarean, the family admitted the woman on June 30. 
 
 As per the complaint lodged by the woman’s mother, the pregnant woman’s health started deteriorating after the woman gynaecologist administered treatment to her on the morning of July 1, 2017. 
 
 Not paying heed to her deteriorating health conditions, the gynaecologist gave a subscription and left for home. The nurse on duty gave an injection to the patient following which her health aggravated further.
 
 When the situation went out of hand, the vicim’s family members raised an alarm following which the gynaecologist returned and rushed the patient to GMCH. The woman died while being administered treatment at about 7.30pm on July 1.
 
 The mother alleged that the gynaecologist disappeared after rushing her daughter to the GMCH that raised further suspicion about her conduct.
 
 When contacted, City Chowk police said, “We are in the process of registering an offence against the woman gynaecologist for causing death due to negligence.”
 
 
