Mumbai: Shares of Punjab National Bank ( ) fell 12% to Rs 76 on Wednesday, a day after it reported a net loss of Rs 13,417 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2018. The lender’s shares have lost more than 60% value from peak levels this year after it detected the Nirav Modi fraud. From February 14, when the bank filed an FIR in the case, the drop is over 40%.

 Following the fall in share price, the market capitalisation of the bank at Wednesday’s close stood at Rs 20,856 crore, which is lower than its arm PNB Housing Finance’s m-cap of Rs 21,265 crore. It is also worth much lower than RBL Bank, a small private lender that has an m-cap of Rs 21,579 crore. According to PNB Housing’s stock market filing, its parent PNB holds close to 33% stake, which is worth nearly Rs 7,000 crore.
 
 This shows that the market is valuing PNB’s banking business much lower than Rs 10,000 crore, considering that the bank has shares in unlisted   and in PNB Gilts. The bank also holds shares in  .
 
 The biggest loser on account of the crash in share price is the bank’s largest shareholder, the Life Insurance Corporation of India, which currently has a 12.24% stake. LIC’s investment in other banking shares also took a hit on Wednesday with large lenders  ,   and Bank of Baroda closing lower on concerns of bond losses as yields on government securities rose. 
 
 Investment bank Jefferies India said in a report that PNB was in “immediate need” of recapitalisation by the government. According to Jefferies India, with around Rs 8,400 crore of deferred losses/expenses, the bank is headed for a loss in FY19. “PNB may also be restricted to conduct normal business. Two of its executive directors have also been divested of their functional powers. PNB will likely face significant operational challenges in the near term,” the firm said.
 
 Following the bank’s abysmal quarterly performance, brokerage houses have come out with a sell rating. Even after Wednesday’s fall, brokerage houses do not see value in the stock. Edelweiss Securities analyst Kunal Shah said, “The moot question regards PNB is what to do at this juncture after the 60%-plus correction in the stock price from its peak and washout Q4FY18 earnings? We believe governance issues, operational challenges, uncertain business prospects and diluted franchise makes it a dud investment proposition.”
 
 
