CHENNAI: As protests continue to rage over the copper smelter plant of   in  , the   on Tuesday said it had rejected the “consent to operate” application of the company for lack of adequate information.

 Arelease from the   chairman said the company had sought to continue operating unit 1 of its smelter plant after March 31, when the previously agreed consent period was to end.
 
 A perusal of the application revealed that the latter had not provided information the TNPCB had sought, forcing the board to reject the application, he said. A GO had been issued in this regard on Monday, he said. Even CM Edappadi Palanisami had tweeted that the TNPCB’s conditions had not been fulfilled by Sterlite Industries.
 
 
 
 The company, in its intimation to the Bombay Stock Exchange Limited, said that as per the requirements under the relevant clause of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing obligations and disclosure requirements) Regulations, 2015, it had applied for renewal of the consent to operate for its smelter plant and that the application had been rejected for want of more clarifications. It was evaluating the situation for further course of action, it informed the BSE.
 
 The residents of  , which is one of the six-seven villages surrounding the plant, had begun the protests on February 12. Slowly, residents of the other villages joined in and the movement, demanding the immediate closure of the plant, expanded. Over the past 58 days, the protests continued and on March 24, there was a virtual shutdown in Tuticorin town, which traders downed the shutters, before the day culminated a mammoth rally in which more than 20,000 people participated.
 
 The protesters also want that all the expansion plans of the company to be stopped. M Krishnamoorthy, one of the leaders of the protesting group, on Tuesday said the success of their movement lay in the fact that people had realised the impact on the environment of the plant from which poisonous gas had leaked in 1997 and 1999. In 2013, there was a disaster when a host of hazardous chemicals were deposited in the ground around the plant, a fact confirmed by experts from National Envionmental Engineerin Research Institute (NEERI), he said. Even the number of people affected by the emissions and gas leak from the plant is on the rise, he said.
 
 The waste material from the plant, indiscriminately dumped into surrounding waterways, then drained into the sea during the monsoon.
 
