HYDERABAD: Class 8 students in   are lagging far behind in math, science, social   and language, compared with their compatriots from other southern states, the National Achievement Survey (NAS) has revealed.

 
 The survey, conducted by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) last year, revealed that learning outcome of class 8 students in Telangana was worst among all southern states. On an average not even half the students could answer basic questions.
 
 
  
 
 In Telangana, only 45% students could answer language-related questions correctly as against the national average of 57%, underscoring lack of initiatives taken by the state government in monitoring and improving performance of students.
 
 “Quality initiatives by the government to improve basic skills such as reading and writing are missing in Telangana schools. Every year, almost 25-30% students lag behind. The government has failed to focus on quality improvement part,” said  , head of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for Pratham   Foundation, a non-profit organisation.
 
 Educationalists say the nodetention policy is also leading to students with poor academic record being promoted without any hiccups up to class 8. “Remedial measures to improve learning standards of students are required. In government schools, enough   material and resources are not provided to teachers,” said Srinivasulu, a class 8 teacher at a government school.
 
 In maths, science and social studies, the performance of students in Telangana was dismally low with only 33-35% answering the questions, despite 89% of class 8 students claiming to have understood what teachers taught in the classroom.
 
 Among the five Southern states, performance of all states, except Telangana and Tamil Nadu, were above the national average of 57% in language, 42% in math, 44% in science and social science.
 
 Performance of class 8 students in Karnataka was the best among the Southern states. Of the 47,021 students assessed in Karnataka, 63% could answer correctly in language, 51% in math, 53% in science and 51% in social science.
 
 Students of neighbouring state of Andhra Pradesh too fared better than their counterpart in Telangana with 58% answering questions in language correctly, 50% in math, 48% in science and 49% in social science.
 
