VISAKHAPATNAM: It has been more than six months since the international air   operations had commenced at the Visakhapatnam international  . However, stakeholders are of the opinion that there is a need to upgrade the facilities at the cargo terminal to match international standards.

 
 The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security, after a long delay had given permission for starting the International cargo operations from Vizag, the work for which was entrusted to AP State Trading Corporation Limited ( ) to handle the air cargo operations.
 
 According to sources, there are still several companies and industries that are still using Hyderabad airport’s cargo service or other cities, as Visakhapatnam international airport still lacks proper infrastructure to handle large volumes of cargo. Besides, there is only one cold storage facility, whereas multiple cold storages are required as the city has the potential to export more marine and other perishable products.
 
 After several representations to the aviation ministry, an additional drug controller was appointed at the air cargo terminal. However, the post of animal quarantine officer is still vacant. Stating that in the GDP ranking,   stands at the ninth position after the six metro cities, Ahmedabad and Pune, O Naresh Kumar, director of AP Chambers of Commerce and Industry and Chairman of Tours and Travels Association, said, “Unlike dedicated air cargo liners in Hyderabad and other cities, Vizag air cargo operations still require better equipment and manpower as it has the potential to handle higher volumes of cargo. The need of the hour is to invite dedicated cargo handlers to the city to facilitate in air cargo operations and boosting the economy.”
 
 “Recently, one of the mango exporter from the city was unable to export his products due to lack of proper packing facility at the air cargo terminal. Hence, exporters of perishable goods like fruits, flowers, marine products, etc have to think twice before they utilise the services at the Visakhapatnam international airport. Better facilities will help in making the cargo services from the Vizag airport much reliable,” said AP CCI president, Sambasiva Rao.
 
 All these years, the cargo services to other international destinations had to be operated via Chennai, Hyderabad and Bangalore. Stating that the international cargo service will boost the trade, airport director, G Prakash Reddy, said, “More than 4,000 tonnes of pharma cargo from coastal Andhra Pradesh is being exported from Hyderabad and Brandie apparel at Atchutapuram SEZ has been depending on Chennai for its exports as well as imports of raw material. We will ensure that the facilities are streamlined so as to facilitate the agro-based industries, iron-based alloy industries and the export of Srikakulam cashew.” The Port City is already connected to five international destinations — Singapore, Dubai, Kuala Lumpur, Colombo and Bangkok. Hence, the direct cargo service to these destinations would facilitate trade services and help in generating revenue.
 
