Ludhiana: In view of the rising demand of water and depleting water levels in the industrial city, the MC officials are planning to take support of newly-elected councillors in making people aware about water wastage.

 If people will not mend their ways, officials will then issue challans to the violators. The officials are planning to conduct a meeting with mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu for bringing all councillors along.
 
 The situation is quite alarming in the city as the central groundwater authority has already showed concern about restoration of groundwater. The entire water supply system of the city is through tubewells. There are more than 1,000 tubewells in the city and due to continuous digging of ground for water, potable water is now available at 600-650 feet which was somewhere at 120 feet a few years back.
 
 During summer season, the demand of water supply increases all the more and MC has already increased the water supply timings from 8 to 10 hours in the localities. Though officials start the drive against the violators who waste water by washing cars and floors, they face problems in taking action against the residents due to political pressure created by the councillors and other leaders.
 
 Earlier in 2016, officials had started a drive against residents who waste water and had issued over 600 challans only in month of June. But in 2017, they issued only 568 challans in nine months starting from January 1 till September 30.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said, “We will talk to the mayor over this issue and will seek support from the councillors as well in creating awareness among the masses to help save water.” He said in case people will continue wasting water, then penalty will be imposed on them.
 
 The MC chief said they would also take action against the car washing centres as even they waste a lot of water.
 
 Box: Penalty for water wastage
 
 There is provision of imposing penalty worth Rs 1,000 for wasting water in washing cars, floors or throwing water on the road. For first-time violation, penalty is Rs 1,000 and for second time it is Rs 2,000. And if same person is caught for the third time, then his water connection is supposed to be disconnected. The violator needs to pay Rs 5,000 for reconnection.
 
 Damage to pipelines
 
 The water supply lines of MC have been damaged since the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) had started work on the elevated road project on Ferozepur Road. One such supply line was damaged due to which water contamination problem was created in Sarabha Nagar area. As the NHAI will dig up roads from Samrala Chowk till Ferozepur Road octroi post for this project, the MC has asked highway authority officials to involve MC officers at the time of digging so that water supply lines could be prevented from damage and in case these get damaged, then they could at least repair them on the spot.
 
 
