VISAKHAPATNAM: In another first to its name, the port city has come out on top in providing employment to eligible youths in Business Processing Outsourcing (BPO) units under the India   Promotion Scheme (IBPS) owned by Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) under the Union ministry of electronics and information technology.

 According to STPI, the state has provided employment to 19,380 youths through 26 BPOs till date since the scheme’s launch in 2016.
 
 “Nearly 90% of the employment generation was contributed by companies in   alone. Thus, the port city has emerged as India’s top city among Tier-II cities in the country in successful utilisation of the IBPS scheme,” STPI joint director MP   told TOI.
 
 All these companies are serving international customers in Europe, US, New Zealand and Australia and domestic customers like Airtel apart from retail outlets like Reliance among other giant commercial establishments.
 
 The jobs range from call centres and IT-enabled companies to legal transcriptions and medical transcriptions among others. Salaries fall in the range of Rs 15,000 Rs 25,000 per month depending on the job.
 
 IBPS is one of the key components of Digital India and aims at creating employment in Tier-II and Tier-III cities and towns in India.
 
 Dubey attributed the positive perspective of IBPS in the city due to several reasons such as migration of youth from neighbouring states like Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand in search of jobs and quality education.
 
 Dubey said the state has nearly 26 BPO companies and nearly 90% of them are located in the city. He added that while the state’s allocation under the scheme is 6,600 jobs, they have surpassed the figure by reaching 19,380 jobs.
 
 Entrepreneurs or companies who provide employment opportunities under the scheme would get an incentive of Rs 1 lakh per three candidates.
 
 Speaking to TOI, O  , vice-president of Rushikonda IT Parks Association in Vizag, said the IBPS schemes helped many small-scale entrepreneurs establish BPOs, thus providing employment to eligible youth.
 
 
