Chennai: A cyber-attack hit nearly 100 countries around the world last May. A Renault Nissan plant in Chennai had to seize production following detection of the virus called ransomware. The virus locks down files until money is paid. In November last year, cab aggregator Uber disclosed that hackers previously stole personal information of approximately 57 million riders and drivers. Back when it happened, Uber paid the criminal $100,000 to keep quiet about the breach and keep the data safe. Although hackers continue to get more sophisticated, many breaches are still the result of human error. Cybercrime is a round-the-clock threat that shows no sign of slowing; the only defence is vigilance, security awareness and education. Even as corporate India adopts digital technologies, the need to have secure systems is growing, leading to a major demand for security professionals. According to technology major IBM, India needs 3 million cyber security professionals now, indicating a massive shortage of cyber security professionals in the country. Ram Swaroop, co-founder and president of CyberSecurityWorks, a Chennai-based security firm says, "Bad guys are after information/data. Data can be stolen from three places – application, network and database. Data is entered in an application, travels on a network and gets stored in a database. You must be good in any of these to break or secure them." However, it’s not enough to have security tools. Swaroop adds one must know the fundamentals and be strong in networks, application programming, operating systems or databases.  Shuchi Nagpal, chief education officer, Asian School of Cyber Laws says cyber security is going to be a lucrative line given the pace of digital adoption. "Banks, financial institutions among most other industries are going digital. Even the government is keen on it. The Smart City initiative is just one of the areas where security will be crucial," says Nagpal. The college has seen a surge in applications for their basic courses in cyber laws and internet crime investigation. From working with government departments or startups to companies like IBM, Accenture and consulting firms like KPMG and EY, the omnipresence of technology opens many opportunities for cyber security specialists. A quick way to test your security skills is to dabble with some bug bounty programs. Many corporates run such programs and reward hackers who break into their system and report breaches to help secure the system further. While not all bug bounty programs are rewarding, some can go as high as $35,000 like Google which recently paid a teenager for identifying a vulnerability. "Ethical hacking gives you an opportunity to be on the right side of the law while securing systems by breaking them. You need to think like a hacker and pre-empt their actions," said Vinod Senthil, co-founder, Infysec. But since the best measures too can’t guarantee 100% security, the key is to always innovate and update. Hackers are constantly developing new ways to purloin data and hold it for ransom. The effort of a security professional is towards securing systems as far as possible and mitigating damage, if and when it happens.  Today, the space of security is also seeing great interest due to regulations being passed across the globe. For instance, the EU region has mandated the General Data Protection Regulation which has to be complied with by any company that deals with data of an EU citizen. This has led to a surge in demand for data security and privacy professionals. As data increasingly becomes the new oil, keeping this data secure has become paramount.