Kolkata: Tollywood’s summer of 2018 has been reasonably hot at the box-office. That’s courtesy debutant director Dhrubo Banerjee’s ' ' (‘GS’), Kaushik Ganguly’s romance-turned-thriller ' ' and   and Shiboprosad Mukhopadhyay’s actors’-backed ' '. The three summer releases are setting the cash registers jingling despite the summer heat, occasional squalls and the IPL craze.

 According to Total Cinema, the first week collections of   and Gargi Roy Chowdhury’s 'Haami' across 21 cinemas was Rs 77,20,931. Prosenjit, Rituparna and Churni Ganguly’s 'Drishtikone' – whose first-week collections were available from 22 cinemas – was Rs 68,86,262. Abir Chatterjee’s 'Guptodhoner Sandhane', whose first-week collections were available from 22 cinemas, was Rs 54,48,850. Cinemas- whose figures have been mentioned here - include not just multiplexes but some single screens as well.
 
 Even those who have found flaws in the scripts or pointed at melodramatic performances can’t ignore the impact of their trade figures on the local industry. 'Haami' was released across 90 theatres in Bengal on May 11. “Even now, there are regular houseful shows at Nandan, Navina, Jaya and Star theatre. While multiple shows at plexes are going houseful, even morning and late-night shows are giving good business. Our film has given a fresh lease of life to theatres like Minar, Bijoli, Chhabighar, Indira, Atindra (Barrackpore), Udayan (Sherophuli), Sonali (Dunlop), Vidyasagar Mancha and Sangam (Kalyani), Roopkatha (Malda), Cinebuzz (Jalpaiguri) and Gitanjali (Bolpur),” said director-actor Mukhopadhyay.
 
 According to exhibitor Arijit Dutta, “Drishtikone gave box-office figures of Rs 9,31,399 at Priya in the first week with two shows a day. “It’s really encouraging for the industry to have three successful films in one month,” Dutta said.
 
 But can this be compared to what happened during Tollywood’s golden era when the industry thrived on super hits by Uttam-Suchitra, Tarun Mazumdar, Agradoot, Tapan Sinha and Anjan Chowdhury as well as festival-favourites of Satyajit Ray, Ritwik Ghatak and Mrinal Sen? Even Soumitra Chatterjee and   became household names in Bengal more because of their mainstream cinema that had a pan-Bengal appeal than their tryst with Ray’s films.
 
 Today, the problem while number-crunching in Tollywood is that sales figures of all films released in single screen theatres across Bengal are not made public. This reticence can be interpreted as a clever means of hushing up dismal figures.
 
 Mukhopadhyay insists that all single screen theatres in districts will have houseful shows if they improve their infrastructure. “Our film has managed to bridge the urban-rural divide,” he claimed.
 
 Navin Choukhani, the owner of Navina, is happy with the figures of 'Haami' and 'GS' that released in his theatre. “In the first week, a solo show of ‘GS’ made Rs 4.5 lakh at Navina. ‘Haami’, which had two shows a day, made Rs 8.5 lakh in the first week. These figures show that Bengali cinema is going in the right direction. However, we still have a long way to go to bridge the urban-rural divide,” Choukhani said.
 
 Ranjay Mazumdar, owner of Andul’s Wellington cinema who books shows for 25 cinemas across Bengal, believes these films haven’t cracked the urban-rural divide the way 'Chander Pahar' and 'Amazon Abhijaan' did. The choice of themes, Mazumdar insists, is partially responsible for this. “Compared to earlier statistics, these films are doing better business even in single screen theatres from the districts. But their rural sales are not comparable to their urban earnings,” Mazumdar said.
 
 
