NOIDA: “Gold is gold,” Commonwealth Games ( ) silver medallist   said on Wednesday as he expressed disappointment after having narrowly lost the 91kg title to his English counterpart Frazer Clarke.

 
 
 
 The judges had awarded Clarke a 5:0 victory over Yadav in the Super Heavyweight final, which came as a surprise as both boxers seemed well-matched. Although disappointed at not winning gold, Yadav said he was happy about his performance because he comes from Uttar Pradesh, which has not produced many winners in an arena dominated by sportsmen from Haryana.
 
 
 
 Yadav said even the coaches were sure that the final judgment was going to be his favour. “I gave it my 100 percent, but I still couldn’t win gold. Even the coaches had expected that I’d win, and the crowd was shouting 'the red one (his outfit’s colour) is the winner'. But it turned out differently,” the   said.
 
 Satish said he was satisfied with the judgments of all the other bouts, except the last one. “The decision was incorrect only in the last bout. We couldn’t contest the judges’ decision because though protest was allowed earlier, the rule was changed a few years ago,” he said.
 
 An Armyman, Yadav now aims to win a gold medal at the upcoming Asian Games — to be held in Jakarta later this year — and the 2020 Olympics.
 
 He trains and plays for the Army Sports Institute (ASI) in Pune. Yadav was born in Pachauta village, Bulandshahr, and started   eight years ago while training for the Army games. He initially played kabaddi and cricket. “I never thought I’d start boxing. I used to play kabaddi. But when the Army coaches saw me, they said I had a good physique for boxing,” he said.
 
 When it comes to sports, sportsmen are given a lot of respect in Haryana as opposed to UP, Yadav said.
 
 Talking about the syringe controversy during the Games, Yadav said the doctor for the boxing team was unaware of the tournament’s no-needle policy.
 
 “The allegations that syringes were found from boxers’ rooms proved to be false. All the Indian boxers underwent a dope test and got a clean chit. So, there was nothing to worry about when we had not done anything wrong,” he said.
 
