BENGALURU: Sleuths of Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ) will register a first information report against former director general of police (Prisons) H N   for corruption following a government order to the agency on February 26. This comes after the allegation that   was given special privileges during her prison term last year. 

  In mid-2017, then DIG (prisons) D Roopa made an allegation that   leader and former aide of   who was lodged in Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara, afte r being convicted in the disproportionate assets case, was enjoying special treatment after she bribed top prison officials, including Rao. The Karnataka government ordered an inquiry led by a retired civil servant who later submitted a report based on the findings. The outcome still remains confidential. 
 
  Meanwhile, on February 26, the government issued an order directing the ACB to register a case against the IPS officer Rao under the Prevention of Corruption Act and submit a report within three months. The order directed the department of personnel and administrative reforms (DPAR) to conduct an inquiry into charges of violation of conduct rules as per the All India Services by Rao and Roopa. 
 
  The government also directed the additional director general of police to conduct a departmental probe against chief superintendent Krishna Kumar and superintendent Anitha who were posted at the prison when   was allegedly provided with additional facilities. The decision was taken after the Vinay Kumar committee, which was set up to probe the alleged preferential treatment given to Sasikala, submitted its report to the government. 
 
 Speaking to media following the government order, Roopa said ACB should look into every angle. "Besides probing bribery charges against top officials, it should also look into the video footage in which Sasikala and her relative Ilavarasi were purportedly seen entering the jail in plain clothes and not in prison uniform," she added.
 
 The footage which was released to media last August was submitted by Roopa on August 19 as part of her statement to ACB in support of her allegations. ACB had conducted a probe earlier after she submitted the report.
 
  Roopa added that prior to the government ordering an ACB probe into the matter, she had filed an application under the RTI Act to know the status of her report, but was 'astonished' to learn that the agency had closed the case. "ACB had closed the case as it did not find anything cognisable in my report, but I am happy that the government has ordered a probe based on the Vinay Kumar committee's recommendations," she said. 
 
 ACB officials were tight-lipped till Thursday evening.
 
  (With agency inputs) 
 
 
