Nagpur: Though Thursday was a holiday on account of Mahavir Jayanti, selected CBSE school principals across Maharashtra received a message in the morning from the Regional Office (Chennai) asking them to report to school. RO’s message was part of a secret operation by CBSE spanning many states to check feasibility of distributing question papers online, possibly for the re-exam of Class X and XII papers they had just announced. From Maharashtra to Kerala to Tamil Nadu, selected schools were asked to go through a mock drill that required downloading and printing question papers. Schools had to first arrange a secure room that had CCTVs, computers, net connectivity and heavy duty laser printer with duplex printing facility. Then, around 2pm, they were asked to print 150 copies of four sets of dummy question papers.  This exercise held today shows CBSE’s intent to hold re-exam as early as possible, by distributing question papers online. This, however, has not enthused teachers who fear this could lead to more problems. A senior teacher said, “What about schools like Navodayas that are located in remote areas? Can steady net connectivity be guaranteed there? In rural areas, there is problem of regular power shutdown too.” Another teacher said logistics challenges were too many. “Every centre will have minimum of 380 students and each question paper would be of 5 pages. So at the bare minimum we are looking at printing almost 2,000 pages right before the exam starts. It will have to be stapled properly and distributed,” she added. Parents too were unhappy with how CBSE was managing the entire episode. Thursday evening many gathered at a public garden to decide their future strategy. The parents, who connected with each other through social media, have decided to first meet local MP and union minister Nitin Gadkari. A parent said, “We will ask Gadkari to prevail upon CBSE to declare from which area or city the paper was leaked. Only students of that region should be asked to appear for a re-exam.” Some parents also talked about exploring legal option to stop the re-exam as it was adding to pressure on kids.