PANAJI: PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar, on Wednesday, said that he is not in favour of installing a statue at the Goa state   complex, evoking a sharp reaction from GFP president.

 Chief minister   on Wednesday said that to put a statue in the precincts of the assembly, the decision is to be taken by the   and not the chief minister.
 
 “It’s the assembly precinct. Here, the decision is of the speaker ..In any area beyond my jurisdiction, I cannot give any assurance or commitment,” Parrikar said.
 
 GFP president and TCP minister Vijai   had demanded for a statue of the Opinion Poll stalwart   in the complex. Congress and other parties had supported his suggestion, even as BJP maintained silence. 
 
 “It has been decided by the government that there will be no (new) statue in the assembly complex. In my opinion, we can have a garden of 2 lakh sqm where statues of these leaders can be erected along with a detailed inscription of their work. This way, tourists and visitors can learn about their history,” Dhavalikar said, adding that he has set up the Kranti Maidan at Ponda along similar lines.
 
 Following Dhavalikar’s statement, Sardesai said that GFP would make an appeal to the speaker of the legislative assembly.
 
 Observers say that compelled by coalition politics, the government had a formal function to commemorate the historic Opinion Poll Day on Tuesday, in Margao. However, during the function, chief minister Manohar Parrikar refrained from commenting on GFP’s demand for a statue of Sequeira in the assembly complex, observers added.
 
 Former CM and Ponda MLA Ravi Naik supported the demand for the statute, but cautioned citizens of politics over ‘Goenkarponn’ slogans.
 
 In a related development, Benaulim MLA Churchill Alemao on Wednesday promised his constituents that he will install the bust of the ‘Father of the Opinion Poll” at Khareband during Opinion Poll celebrations in his constituency.
 
 Addressing the people of the Benaulim constituency, Alemao said that he would also vote in favour of a resolution to install Sequeira’s statue within the assembly complex. 
 
 Alemao added that he would request the Benaulim panchayat to pass a resolution to install the stalwart’s bust as Benaulim had given a massive lead against the merger during the Opinion Poll.
 
 Taking a dig at Congress, Churchill said the party is to be blamed for not installing the statue at the assembly complex for so many years even though former MLA Radharao Gracias had moved the resolution during his term.
 
 Radharao said that some individuals are trying to distort history and added that Sequeira was indeed the ‘Father of the Opinion Poll’. 
 
 
