BAREILLY: Auto and taxi drivers and city residents using CNG in their vehicles likely to have some respite from serpentine queues to get their vehicles refilled with the administration gearing up to set up 10 new Compressed Natural Gas filling stations here by end of this year.
 
  As of now, the two CNG pumps located in Quila and   areas cater to around 10,000 vehicles, including auto-rickshaws, cars and buses. Besides, three filling stations are under construction on the city outskirts — one each at Badaun road,   road and   road.
  
  During a recent meeting, divisional commissioner P V   directed petroleum agencies to prepare and submit proposals for setting up filling pumps in different parts of the city at the earliest.
  
  Speaking with TOI, Jaganmohan said, “The petroleum companies have been directed to submit proposals for setting up of new CNG filling pumps. Besides, they have also been directed to complete the work of the three under construction pumps at the earliest.”
  
  Asked about the location of new filling stations, DC said, “They are likely to be set up close to the existing petrol pumps in the city.”
  
  “The upcoming filling pumps will facilitate public transport drivers as well as commuters by reducing waiting time to get their vehicles refilled. Apart from facilitating existing users, easy availability of CNG will also encourage people using fuels like petrol and diesel to use natural gas which will, in turn, help reduce air pollution,” said DC.
  
  According to RTO sources, there are around 70,000 vehicles in city — both three-wheelers and four-wheelers — which use diesel and petrol as fuel.
  
  DC expressed hope that the under construction CNG pumps would become operational by March, while the upcoming 10 pumps would be functional by the end of the current financial year.
  
  According to official sources, there has been a longstanding demand from auto-rickshaw unions and drivers of various other public transports to set up more CNG pumps both inside and on the outskirts of the city, which impelled the administration to take the decision.
  
  Auto-rickshaw Drivers Welfare Society district president   said, “With the city having just two CNG filling pumps, serpentine queues obstructing traffic on main roads is common sight here. The vehicles waiting in queues narrow down the passage for traffic on main roads at Satellite and Quila areas, where the CNG pumps are located, which often leads to traffic jams. Thus, the new filling stations will come as a relief not only to us but also to the commuters taking these roads. Besides, it will save our time and money as well.”
