MUMBAI: The   on Thursday lambasted the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority for realigning Metro 2B line through a residential plot in Juhu Vile Parle Development Scheme. The property is slated to go for redevelopment and has all approvals in place.

 Metro 2B will connect  .
 
 “If there is change of alignment and if somebody suffers, you (MMRDA) have to compensate,” said a bench of Justices Abhay   and Riyaz Chagla while hearing an urgent plea by  . The society has sought direction to MMRDA to renew the no-objection certificate for redevelopment which expires on March 31.
 
 The plea was made in a petition filed by the society to restrain MMRDA from implementing the realignment which passes through its property and to declare the action “unlawful, illegal and arbitrary.”
 
 The society, spread over 2,300 square metres in a MHADA layout, was built in 1981. It has 40 members in two buildings.
 
 In 2011, it entered into a memorandum of understanding with   to redevelop the property.
 
 The Metro route then was New Link Road to N S Road No. 10 of JVPD, and this position continued till November 2014 when the society signed an official agreement with the developer.
 
 Subsequently, all permissions were obtained and even the NOC was finally issued on March 30, 2017. But the society thereafter learnt the NOC would be reviewed as the proposed revised Metro line would be passing through its property.
 
 “Realignment cuts through the middle, bifurcating the property. We can’t carry out redevelopment,” said senior advocate Fredun De Vitre for the society.
 
 Questioning MMRDA, the judged sought to know if it had followed due process while taking over a private property. “After having issued NOC, can you change alignment?” asked justice Oka. To the court’s query on the fallout of realignment, MMRDA’s advocate   replied, “The society will lose 842 sq mts. We have not taken possession of the plot.”
 
 The judge then cautioned MMRDA that if it had changed the alignment, it would have to compensate the society. Mattos said the society would be offered an alternative plot of the same size and that MMRDA had written to BMC in this regard.
 
 Justice Oka retorted, “As far as Metro is concerned, we know what you are capable of doing. You are not so helpless. You must ensure persons granted NOC do not suffer because of alignment.’’ The judges then directed MMRDA to consider the society’s application to renew the NOC “as expeditiously and possibly within one week.”
 
