The news of the demise of   actress   has left the entertainment fraternity in a deep state of shock.
 
  Bollywood actors including Riteish Deshmukh,  , Bhagyashree, Sushmita Sen,  , Richa Sharma took to social media to express grief over the loss.
 
 
 
  Expressing shock over the news, Riteish tweeted, "Terrible terrible news.. Am shocked beyond words. SRIDEVI ji No More . RIP."
 
 
  
  
 
  Nimrat Kaur also wrote on Twitter, "Absolutely devastated to hear about the passing of #Sridevi. What a dark black terrible moment in time. Gutted."
 
  
  
 
  Priyanka Chopra and Sushmita Sen also could not believe the news and expressed their condolences on Twitter. 
 
 Priyanka tweeted, "I have no words. Condolences to everyone who loved #Sridevi . A dark day . RIP."
 
  
  
 
  "I just heard Ma'am Sridevi passed away due to a massive cardiac arrest. I am in shock.cant stop crying.," wrote Sushmita.
 
  
  
 
  Jacqueline Fernandez, Sidharth Malhotra, Gauahar Khan also expressed shock over the death of the 54-year-old actress.
 
  "An absolute icon. Gone too soon, #Sridevi. Too soon," Jacqueline tweeted.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  "Really Shocked and disturbed to hear that Sridevi Ma'am is no more #RIP #Sridevi," wrote Siddharth.
 
  
  
 Here are a few more post shared by Bollywood celebs in memory of Sridevi.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  Sridevi passed away on Saturday night in Dubai due to cardiac arrest.
 
  The actress was in UAE along with her husband   and her younger daughter Khushi to attend a family wedding.
 
  Born as Shree Amma Yanger Ayyapan, Sridevi was known for her iconic roles in Hindi movies like 'Chandni', 'Lamhe', 'Mr India', 'Chaalbaaz', 'Nagina', 'Sadma', and many more.
 
 
 
 
  The Padma Shri awardee actress had also made a mark with her stellar performances in Tamil, Telugu, Hindi, Malayalam and Kannada films.
 
  In 2012, Sridevi returned to films after a 15-year-long hiatus with Gauri Shinde's movie 'English Vinglish'.
 
  The actress was last seen in Bollywood movie 'Mom' in 2017,
 
  Her daughter Janhvi is set to make her Bollywood debut this year with  's directorial 'Dhadak'.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
