Tirunelveli: Stating that more than 50% of juvenile offenders are school dropouts, secretary of the district legal services authority (DLSA) V   appealed to headmasters of government high and higher secondary schools to prevent students from dropping out so that they do not turn into anti-social elements. “Whatever be the gravest offence committed by a student, you are creating a big criminal by making him a dropout,” he said.

 Ramalingam was addressing headmasters of more than 140 schools at a one-day capacity building programme on laws related to child protection and suicide prevention among adolescent students held at the collectorate here on Saturday.
 
 Citing instances of headmasters trying to cover up sexual abuse or harassment by teachers, to protect the reputation of the institutions or the children’s future, Ramalingam said that they could attract punishment under Section 21 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso).
 
 Even women teachers could make boys fall victim to sexual abuse. One such instance is that of a teacher who eloped with her student.
 
 Presiding over the function, collector   said the programme was organised in the wake of a series of major crimes involving children across   and India over the last one year. “Women and children are among the highly vulnerable targets. Technology is misused to the extent of controlling minds of children and taking them to the extent of ending their lives through ‘Blue Whale game’ and so on,” he said.
 
 The collector pointed out the increasing incidents of caste and communal clashes among school and college students in   district. He appealed to the headmasters and the heads of institutions to stay on alert, identify such incidents at an early age and provide counselling to those students, to ensure that the young minds are not poisoned at a tender age.
 
 “Don’t take it lightly by assuming that the simple issues on caste and communal grounds will get settled among them. By not reporting them to your higher-ups you are becoming party to it,” he said.
 
 
