SURAT:  , which woke up to a   and heavy rain early on Sunday morning even as three persons died and 25 others suffered minor injuries in separate rain-related incidents.

 
 
 Prakash Das, 31year-old labourer, died after a tree uprooted due to strong winds fell on him when he was sleeping on   embankment in Dabholi at around 4 am. A 32-year-old man Umashankar Shyam Patra, a resident of Ganpat Nagar in Pandesara was found dead in an open land near Vinayak Nagar. Preliminary post-mortem revealed that he died of suffocation as water and mud had entered in his mouth after he slipped in the ground and fell went unconscious. 
 
 Nayna Rathod, 45, got electrocuted due to a broken electricity wire that was hanging on the road near house in Kalyannagar when she was going to throw garbage in the dustbin. She died at around 4.45 am. 
 
 Patients who suffered injuries with solid objects falling on them due to the storm started pouring in at the New Civil Hospital since 3am. Majority of them were living in makeshift homes which suffered damage due to strong wind and rain.
 
 At least 110 trees were uprooted along with a few electricity poles in different parts of the city. The rains and thunderstorm continued for almost an hour between 3 am to 4 am. The flood department of the   (SMC) said the city recorded 22 mm rainfall.
 
 Rander zone was the most affected as about nearly trees got uprooted there. Most of the areas including Jehangirpura, Vanakla, Pal and Bhata saw a blackout as electricity was snapped as uprooted trees fell on overhead electricity lines getting and electricity poles collapsed.
 
 Teams of Dakshin Gujarat Vij Company Limited (DGVCL) had a busy time to restore power in the affected areas. In some of the areas where there was heavy damage to power cables, electricity was restored only by Sunday late evening. 
 
 According to fire and emergency service, 20 trees were uprooted in Athwa, 11 in Udhana, 20 in Varachha, 10 trees in Central zone and nine in Katargam.
 
 Chief fire officer SK Acharya said, “The operation to clear the trees continued till evening.” 
 
 
