BENGALURU: It may all boil down to just caste here. One of the largest constituencies of the state — going by the number of voters — Yeshwantpur may appear to have enough factors at play, but political parties have trusted caste.

 
 All three major parties have fielded a   candidate, even as issues like infrastructure, garbage, and drinking water dominate citizens’ debates. That’s because the constituency, which came into being after delimitation in 2008, is a Vokkaliga bastion with the community having about 1.5 lakh votes.
 
 Congress has gone with sitting MLA ST Somashekhar, who, despite anti-incumbency, is confident of winning. JD(S) too has backed its past candidate TN Javarayi Gowda, who had lost to Somashekhar in 2013. And, even as speculation was rife that BJP would field Shobha Karandlaje, the party decided on actor Jaggesh, a reluctant candidate at the last minute.
 
  
  
 
 “Jaggesh wanted to contest from a constituency in Tumakuru. Although reluctant, he has toed the party line. Now, the fight here is mostly between JD(S) and Congress,” said one political observer.
 
 Brushing aside criticism that he has failed to deliver good services, Somashekhar argues that constituents have benefited from his works.
 
 Residents, however, point out that receiving more than 40% of the city’s waste — five of the city’s 12 waste processing centres are here — the disposal units in the constituency are managed poorly.
 
 “I agree that I’ve had very little time to prepare, but I am not worried. Our party workers have done the groundwork and people will vote for the party and PM Modi, whose work has impacted their lives,” says Jaggesh.
 
 Javarayi Gowda, on the other hand, says that the incumbent is corrupt and people are against him. “I’ve been working in the constituency for long now and I understand people’s sentiments. He (Somashekhar) may think that everything is hunky-dory, but people are fed up with his rule,” Gowda says.
 
 Observers, however, say that everything will boil down to caste, given that the BJP’s late decision is unlikely to have an impact.
 
 
