MUMBAI: Competition among the top city colleges is fierce. Famous names, big brands and now   that come attached seemed to be the flavour of the 2017-18 admission season.

  replaced last year’s (2016-17)  , topping the charts by receiving the largest number of   for the academic year 2017-18. Of the 12 lakh applications received by various college attached to  , 33,446 went to Mithibai. It was closely followed by yet another autonomous institute—Jai Hind College.
 
 In fact, of the top five colleges to receive the largest pool of applications, four are autonomous (see table). The top three institutes saw students mostly applying for Bachelor of Management Studies programme. For instance, Mithibai saw 6,840 applications for 120 seats and Jai Hind 6,363.
 
 “When one comes to our institute, there is a lot of exposure, apart from add-on courses like digital marketing and data analytics. There is focus on entrepreneurship, placements are excellent and curriculum is top-notch,” said Jai Hind principal Ashok Wadia.
 
 “This year, I am expecting more applications because the college has been conferred with the Best College Award, as well as with graded autonomy by the UGC. So, students can expect better curriculum, reforms in examinations and evaluation. In fact, this year our first-year and second-year results were declared in just five days,” said Mithibai College head Rajpal Hande.
 
 For many students, said university officials, the ‘blue-chip’ colleges, which have traditionally attracted more students to their campuses, are now seeing candidates come from other parts of India also. “Autonomy is the greatest promise for students who know they will get updated global standard curriculum,” said a university officer.
 
 Interestingly, KJ Somaiya College of Arts and Commerce saw the largest number of BCom applications, followed by Mithibai and HR College. Ramnarain Ruia received the maximum applications for BSc.
 
 Add-on courses for undergraduate students are another attraction. At SK Somaiya College, students speak of the social cell set up to encourage those interested in social initiatives and the entrepreneurship corner is a magnet for several budding business community Gujaratis who throng the institute.
 
 St Xavier’s College received the largest number of applications for Arts taking its count to 21,170. “We have seen a steady flow of applications and the rush for BMS and BMM has also gone up,” said principal Agnelo Menezes. “But post-autonomy, we are seeing the number of applications from across India rise bettering the diversity in the class.”
 
 
