Nagpur: In the mid and late 2000s,   hardly had any bench strength in umpiring department. Apart from  ,   and  , Vidarbha didn’t have quality umpires. With limited exposure, these three too didn’t officiate at the international level.

 Things, however, have changed now for the better. Vidarbha have three quality young umpires in Abhijit Deshmukh, Nitin Pandit and Ulhas Gandhe, who are doing extremely well at the domestic level.
 
 The trio is set to officiate in the 11th edition of Indian Premier League.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 It’s for the first time in the Vidarbha history, three umpires from the region are being included in the   panel. Deshmukh will officiate as an on field umpire in six matches. He will remain third umpire in two matches. Pandit and Gandhe will be reserve umpires in 10 and 9 matches, respectively.
 
 Former ICC panel umpire Sudhir Asnani, who has officiated with all three city umpires in the last ten years, said the trio deserved this elevation. “All three have officiated with me at the domestic circuit. They are very hard working umpires. They stand a good chance to officiate in the international matches in the future as they have age on their side. Abhijit and Nitin are currently among the top 15 umpires in the country,” Asnani told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 “They have a good temperament and that’s why they have reached at this level. They conduct themselves very well on and off the field. When you remain calm off the field, it helps you perform better on the field and that’s one quality all three possess,” he said.
 
 Former BCCI panel umpire and BCCI tutor Rajiv Risodkar too expressed his happiness over their juniors’ appointment. “They have been doing well big matches for the last few years. It’s a good opportunity for them. Umpiring was one area where Vidarbha was lagging and now the association seems to be making amends. The fact that VCA secretary (BS Bhatti) was an umpire himself is helping the association. They have earned this appointment with their hard work and dedication. I congratulate them and wish good luck for the future,” Risodkar said.
 
 Deshmukh was recently in Australia to officiate in the Sheffield Shield as part of BCCI’s umpiring exchange programme. He also officiated in the last edition of the IPL. Pandit and Gandhe officiated in the recently-concluded India-Australia Women’s One-day series and the Twenty20 series involving England. They have also officiated in various important tournaments like Duleep, Deodhar and Irani Trophy in the domestic circuit besides India U-19 matches over the years.
 
 
