SHIMLA: The decision of   high court to quash a notification regarding opening of a subdivision (civil) at Janjehli in   district has left local residents enraged. They protested against the state government on Saturday at Janjehli and accused the government of playing politics of regionalism. 

 Seeing the public outburst on the issue, chief minister   on Sunday clarified that whatever has happened in Janjehli in Thunag tehsil was due to a false affidavit filed by the previous   government in the court and the present government had no hand in this. It is not the people of   alone who are protesting on the issue, even residents of Chhatri joined them in protest after a notification dated April 21, 2016, for the opening of sub-tehsil at Chhatri had also been cancelled.
 
 On Februaury 2 too, people had held a protest to oppose the shifting of the subdivision from Janjheli. Protesters have threatened a road blockade if the matter was not resolved.
 
 Jai Ram said the present state government had no role to play in the cancellation of the SDM office at Janjehli, along with a sub-tehsil status for  , as this was the decision of the high court in the wake of a false affidavit filed by the Congress government. The present situation was the result of mismanagement of previous Congress regime, he claimed. “The Congress government before issuing a notification submitted an affidavit in the high court containing distorted facts, on behalf of which the court issued the orders of cancellation of an SDM office at Janjehli and sub-tehsil office at Chhatri,” he said.
 
 The chief minister said the state government would now approach the court and would place before it its version as well. He also appealed to the people of the area to exercise patience and avoid agitations as the matter was pertaining to judiciary and people should not dishonour the decision of the court. “The government has full faith in the judiciary and I am sure that the matter would certainly come to its logical conclusion. We are looking into every aspect very closely and will soon come out with a solution,” he said. 
 
 Jai Ram also cautioned people against those trying to politicize the issue with a motive to create unrest. “We will certainly exercise all possibilities to get justice done,” he added.
 
 
