SALEM: A day after   chief minister   sought a probe into the complaint against a private hospital in   in connection with removing internal organs of a brain-dead patient from his state, the hospital authorities on Friday denied any foul play and said the organs had been harvested with the family members' consent. 

 The younger brother of the deceased also confirmed that the organs were harvested with their consent, but he said there was something dubious about performing the postmortem at night as that was unusual.
 
 Pinarayi had on Thursday had written to chief minister  , urging him to order a probe into the complaint lodged by the family members of P Manikandan, 24, of Meenakshipuram in Palakkad district in Kerala, whose organs were allegedly removed before his body was handed over to the kin.
 
 As per the letter, Manikandan and six others were injured in an accident near Kallakkuruchi in Villupuram district on May 18 while they were returning to Meenakshipuram from Chennai. They were admitted to the Vinayaka Mission Super Specialty Hospital in Salem, the same day.
 
 Hospital sources said the condition of P Manikandan and A Manikandan was critical. Others, identified as A Pambavaasan, 18, S Karthick, 23, V Vigneswaran, 16 and K Govindan, 24, had received only minor injuries.
 
 On May 20, doctors declared P Manikandan brain-dead and put him on ventilator. According to the Kerala chief minister's letter, the hospital authorities demanded from his kin 3 lakh towards treatment charges and another 25,000 for taking the body to Meenakshipuram. Since the family didn't have the amount, they were asked to sign a few papers, it said. 
 
 Dr V P Chandrasekaran, chief operating officer of VIMS, told TOI that the organs were harvested with the consent from the kin of the deceased and after informing the Tamil Nadu Network for Organ Sharing. 
 
 Subsequently, kidneys, corneas, liver, intestines, pancreas, heart and lungs were harvested and sent to Fortis Hospital and Global Hospital in Chennai, KMCH in Coimbatore and Manipal Hospital in Salem. The hospital also used one.
 
 
