Panaji: Students answering their Class XII board exams left home as early as two hours before the schedule to avoid the chaos created by the morcha. The imposition of Section 144 up to 10.30am and police arrangements in the capital meant that no students in Panaji centres reported late for the exam. Students did get stranded on their way back after the exams, as the mining dependents’ protest was in full swing by 12.30pm, when the exam ended. Worst hit were students at the Cujira school complex. Hundreds were seen waiting in their school courtyards, much after school hours ended at 1.30pm. Some like Surabhi Pauskar at Dr K B Hedgewar high school were left at their school much past 4pm, waiting for their ride home, as parents were stuck in traffic jams created near KTC bus stand. “Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienkar distributed biscuits amongst students. From the school’s end, we provided them with patties and packed juices so they do not go hungry,” said school headmaster Vilas Satarkar, who provided the students company till their parents arrived. But even parents from nearby areas could be seen walking up to 2km with their children in the afternoon sun, having parked their vehicles far from the complex. Class XII student Pranali Naik lives in Panaji in the Patto area. But as her residence is near the KTC bus stand, where the morcha took place, she decided to get to her examination centre at T B Cunha Higher Secondary School in Campal at 8am on Monday for fear of missing her exam. “I sought permission to sit in the library at my examination centre till the exam began at 9.30am.” Rashmi Karapurkar, whose daughter was answering her Class XII commerce exam at Our Lady of Rosary High School in Dona Paula, said “We live in Marcel, which is around 20km away from Panaji. So we left 45 minutes earlier. I was scared because even if we reach the examination hall 10 minutes late, it makes a huge difference to a student when answering their board exam.” Students of Goa University from Ponda, who have to come to the KTC bus stand in Panaji to take a bus to their residence, were stranded in Bambolim. “We don’t want to land at the bus stand in the midst of the morcha though there are private buses going to the bus terminus,” said a PG biochemistry student of GU.