NOIDA: A day after a 16-year-old boy, who was heading to his exam centre on a two-wheeler died in an accident, the district administration has ordered an inquiry to find out why two private   allegedly refused to admit him before his death.

 Anurag Bhargava, chief medical officer, Noida said he came to know about the issue through media reports. “We have set up a three-member team to investigate the matter. The team will question eyewitnesses, Pranjal’s friends and others. They will also scan CCTV footage of two hospitals,” he said.
 
 Dr Shashi, Dr V B Dhaka and Dr Sanjeev Manglik will investigate the issue and submit a report within a month. “We will take action once the team submits its findings,” he said.
 
  Sharma, heading to attend his Class X annual examination was critically wounded after his moped collided with a speeding DTC bus at  . His friend Taleem Khan, riding pillion, escaped with minor injuries. 
 
 Khan was wearing a helmet while Sharma was holding a helmet in his hand. Pranjal’s family alleged that two private hospitals had refused to admit him, who was later brought dead at district hospital, Sector 30.
 
 Pranjal’s family members on Saturday cremated the body after a post-mortem. The family has left for their ancestral home in Nepal.
 
 “My son would have survived if he had received medical treatment on time. I have faith in district administration that justice will be delivered,” said Aseswar Sharma, Pranjal’s father.
 
  on Saturday issued a statement saying that the patient was brought to the hospital in an auto at 6.30 am. 
 
 “The doctors and medical staff rushed to the patient as he was brought in. The doctors examined him and said the victim was no more. The doctors asked the staff to take him on stretcher. However, the people accompanying the patient decided against admitting him and left the spot in the same auto,” V B Joshi, spokesperson, Kailash Hospital, said. 
 
 He said the allegation of ‘X-ray machine not functional’ was not true. “We have five X-ray machines and all are functional,” Joshi said.
 
 
