BAREILLY: A chance discovery of a skeleton in an abandoned dilapidated PWD staff quarter on Thursday, has led to the unraveling of a murder plot and arrest the one of the alleged culprits besides the identity of the victim.
 
  A post-mortem report revealed that the victim was a woman who had been killed almost one year ago. Piecing together the evidence found from the spot, police identified the victim as 65-year-old Kamla Devi. A mobile phone cover, a cold drink can, calculator, a purse and bangles were found from the spot.
  
  Investigations revealed that a missing person complaint was lodged but it was buried amid the files of unsolved cases.
  
  Police said Kamla Devi was killed by her daughter-in-law Sushila Devi, 40, along with four aides on March, 2017 over a property dispute. The accused, Sushila, has been arrested and a hunt is on to arrest her accomplices.
  
  Giving details, superintendent of police, city, Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “The skeleton was found lying inside the toilet. It was lying there for almost a whole year and nobody was aware about it. We found the Aadhaar card of the deceased near the skeleton and it helped us in identifying the woman.”
  
  The skeleton was found by a cleaning staff who was told to clean up the abandoned house on PWD campus.
  
  According to police, Kamla Devi, a widow, was living with her family at Aksaura village under Shahi police station. Her husband, Gangaram, who was an employee of PWD, died six years ago. Following his death, Kamla’s elder son, Harish Pal, got the job in place of his father. However, he too died three years ago in a train accident.
  
  It was then that a dispute over sharing of property arose between Harish Pal’s widow Sushila and her mother-in-law, Kamla. The family was also expecting a compensation of Rs 4 lakh from railways for the death of Harish and both women were embroiled in a dispute over it.
  
  Police said on March 21, 2017, Sushila took her mother-in-law out to the house on the pretext of helping her get a bank loan. “However, Sushila along with the help of aides Pramod and Prem Shankar, her brother Prem Singh and Pramod’s father, Kishan Lal, had planned to eliminate Kamla. Sushila took her mother-in-law to an abandoned building where the four were waiting for her. They strangled Kamla and left her body in the toilet, confident that on one came to the spot,” said Sajwan.
  
  Meanwhile, Kamla’s younger son lodged a missing complaint about his mother after she did not return home.
  
  “We have arrested Sushila but the four other accused are absconding. We are trying to nab them. The accused have been booked under IPC section 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence),” said SP city.
