MUMBAI: The   has unearthed a racket where crores of rupees was taken abroad through banking channels to fund   and electronic items into the country.

 On Friday, police arrested 11 flyers, including three women and an agent, at the airport before they could board a  . They were carrying carrying 10,000 dirham each (a dirhamis worth Rs 17.76), equivalent to nearly Rs 1.8 lakh. Sahar police also seized 55 multi-currency cards—five with each flyer—in which the racketeers had deposited 1 lakh dirham each (totally around Rs9.7crore in the 55 cards).
 
 
  
 During interrogation of one of the carriers,   (32), police learnt about the racket. In the last one month, 54 such carriers had travelled to Dubai and Rs 48 crore transferred abroad, police said. The arrested passengers said they were promised Rs 13,000 commission, an officer said.
 
 Police said the carriers were assigned the job of travelling abroad by the kingpin, who ran a company  . Money was deposited in their bank accounts, which they were to withdraw in Dubai and hand over to the kingpin’s associates who would then arrange for smuggling of goods. 
 
 “This is an innovative form of hawala (illegal currency transfer). The money is sent through banking channels thus not arousing suspicion. In the traditional method, there is no physical flow of currency. The currency is handed over here and the equivalent money is delivered abroad,’’ an officer said. 
 
 The money was to be handed over one Romil in Dubai. Police found the office of Firstchoice Media and Entertainment Pvt Ltd at Tardeo closed. Police now are searching for two women who arranged the passengers. One of the arrested, Sayyed Samina Ali (24), told immigration officials that he was flying to Dubai for a film shoot but was not carrying valid documents. The officials then alerted Sahar police. DCP (Zone VIII) Anil Kumbhare supervised a team which picked up the carrier Beliff and nine others. “We are waiting for details from the bank on Monday to know whether the accounts opened with fake details,” said Thopate.
 
  “Probe is on to get details of the person who has hired the passengers. The arrested passengers confessed that their role is to hand over the cards and the UAE dirham to a person. While returning, the passengers are handed over some gold and electronic goods,” said Kumbhare.
 
 
