MANGALURU: The city wound the clock back 8 years to pay homage to 158 people who died when   flight IX 812 crashed while landing at Mangaluru International Airport on May 22, 2010. The 158 victims were among   including six crew members, when the Dubai-Mangaluru flight skippered by captain Zlatko Glušica overshot the runway and crashed into a ravine. A total eight passengers survived one of India’s worst aviation disasters miraculously.

 Deputy commissioner Sasikanth Senthil S, who was an IAS probationer in Mandya on the day of the air crash, led the short memorial service organized at the memorial park on Thannirbhavi Road. A minute of silence was observed before Senthil laid a wreath at the newly-constructed memorial at the park. Designed in the shape of the tailplane, the memorial abuts the park on the banks of the Gurupur. This park also houses the remains of 12 people who remained unidentified.
 
 Solemnity marked the memorial with no speeches being made, barring a brief remark on the tragedy that unfolded eight-years-ago, by M L Vyshali, additional deputy commissioner. Dignitaries led by Senthil laid wreaths and showered flower petals on the memorial. Members of the uniformed services saluted the memorial. Unlike previous years, where a family member of the air crash victims or a survivor turned up, the memorial this year was bereft of any such person turning up.
 
 While 136 bodies were identified and handed over to their next of kin, the remaining 22 bodies were subjected to DNA examination. A total 10 bodies that could not be identified and were not claimed by any kin were interred on May 27, 2010 on land that belonged to New Mangalore Port Trust on the Thannirbhavi Road, just off Old Kulur Bridge. The New Mangalore Port in association with Airports Authority of India has since constructed the new memorial at a cost of Rs 12.13-lakh.
 
 
 
 
 I was an IAS probationer at Mandya and heard about the incident through TV and other media reports. I was in touch about the incident with Ponnuraj Sir (V Ponnuraj, then DC). – Sasikanth Senthil S, deputy commissioner.
 
 I was directed by AAI HQ to report to Mangaluru immediately in the aftermath of the air crash and reached here that afternoon. I was in the city for three days till the black box was recovered. AAI subsequently reposted me back to MIA in July, since the airport was getting a lot of bed press over handling of the air crash and its aftermath. – M R Vasudeva, former airport director, MIA.
 
 I may or may not come back here next year. The day is still fresh in my mind. I have seen dead bodies in my profession, but nothing prepared me for the flood of bodies that came to the mortuary at Wenlock Hospital. Holding the hot charred bodies of young children made me feel cold inside. Though I am not a regular eater of non-vegetarian food, I could not bring myself to eat meat for several months thereafter. – Dr Arun K Rao, psychiatrist, who has visited all previous seven memorial events.
 
 The pain that the next of kin experienced in failing to identify their family members including two children who were completely charred with their parents continues to make my eye well with tears even now. Overwhelming show of solidarity from all sections of society in dealing with the aftermath of the crash, including support from Seemanth Kumar Singh, then city police commissioner is still fresh in my mind.– S A Prabhakar Sharma, then in-charge DC.
 
 It was one of the most excellent rescue operations ever mounted. There were a lot of things to learn, and I have jotted down my findings to ensure effective coordination for any such eventuality in the future. Speaking first-hand to one of the air crash survivors over phone after being tipped off by a local who suspected that the flight had crashed and alerted the control room, is a memory that I can never forget. – Seemanth Kumar Singh, additional commissioner of police (East), Bengaluru, then city police commissioner.
 
 
