NEW DELHI: A sexual   FIR was lodged on Monday on the complaint of a   journalist against the SHO of Delhi Cantt police station. The officer was sent to the district lines.

 The   was covering the   by the students of Jawaharlal Nehru University on Friday when the SHO had allegedly misbehaved with her. That evening, she had lodged a complaint with Sarojini Nagar police station about the SHO pushing her while she was clicking photographs of the clash between the students and the police on her cellphone. She said that despite telling the officer about her identity, he had continued to misbehave with her. 
 
 DCP (PRO) Madhur Verma said that a vigilance inquiry was ordered against the officer after the complaint and the report was submitted on Monday evening. The SHO claimed he mistook the journalist for a protester and tried to push her away. Police said disciplinary action would be initiated against him for unprofessional behaviour.
 
 Meanwhile, a group of journalists went to Union home minister Rajnath Singh’s office and left a memorandum there on Monday to demand the ouster of the SHO and action against a DCP seen in a clip. 
 
 “The probe has been transferred to the crime branch. For a fair and impartial probe, the SHO has been transferred to the district lines,” said Verma.
 
 Elsewhere,   Students’ Union also filed a complaint at Sarojini Nagar police station on Monday against Delhi Police for “brutally assaulting students and molesting female students”. They demanded an   too. 
 
 JNUSU said the March 23 march to Parliament was peaceful and the police were informed about it. They said the student representatives and teachers were having a dialogue with senior police officers and were given assurance to be allowed to go ahead after speaking to a senior IPS officer. “He requested for some time. But to our surprise Delhi Police started water cannoning the peacefully gathered students, resulting in a huge stampede,” the statement read.
 
 “The statement of police officers apologising for molesting a woman journalist mistaken for a student proves their true intentions,” 
 
 
