It is not every day that you get to meet all the powerful mothers of Gurgaon under one roof. On Saturday,   organised The   2018, which included a stand-up comic act, an energetic   session, discussions on parenting, and more. Ditching their regular work, the city’s mothers came together to enjoy the day. 

  
  The djembe workshop had the ladies dancing and singing
 
 
 
 The day-long summit had many exciting events planned for the mothers. Many came out to network with other entrepreneur mothers, while others got together to meet other members from the group. But having fun was the main thing on everybody’s mind. Stand-up comic   had the audience   to his jokes and even came back on stage for a second time. “My husband was calling me back home, but when I got to know that you (Anshu) were coming back on stage, I chose to stay back,” one of the members told the stand-up comic. Anshu was so flattered that he asked the organisers to give the woman a special prize and also jokingly added that he would sign over his property to her. 
 
  
  Chak De Phatte
 
 A djembe session was also conducted for the members at the event where they were taught how to play the instrument. Not just that, the audience members also danced and sang along to the beats. Anshu Daga, one of the members, presented a play called #Andme?... I Am Changing, that focussed on the problems that women often face at home. “These women have played many roles in their lives, and this is the first time that they are playing the role of actors. You will be able to connect with the play,” Daga, who had directed the play, told the audience. 
 
  
  After the djembe workshop, the ladies even exercised a bit to relax their arms
 
 
 
 The moms at the event participated in all the activities, and were seen laughing, dancing and singing their heart out. “The drum session was really interesting, I loved that part and the discussion on parenting was very informative,” said Neha Seth, member of GurgaonMoms, who was also a volunteer at the event. 
 Neela Kaushik, founder, GurgaonMoms, added, “The idea behind the community is to provide tools to moms to pursue whatever they are passionate about. Moms don’t get to network, and this event provided them a platform to do that.”
 
  
  Stand-up comic Anshu Mor
 
 
 
 A panel discussion, KISS! (Keep It Sweet & Simple), on parenting was also organised 
  
  Dr Kavita Arora 
 
  
  Janani Iyer
 
  
  Aditi Misra 
 
  
  Shelja Sen 
 
 
 
