KOLKATA: On a day police arrested the manager and one of the owners of Burdwan’s   Home, which has been in the eye of the storm after the nursing home authorities allegedly sent an AC mechanic in the guise of a doctor to accompany a 16-year-old boy to Kolkata in an ambulance on Friday, was also earlier sealed by the police in 2016 for not following guidelines under the Clinical Establishment Act. But the nursing home started functioning a few weeks later, allegedly after the district health authorities gave them permission.

 
 “The nursing home was sealed for sometime when functional irregularities were found during a joint raid in December 2016,” said  , SP of Burdwan. Meanwhile, after a raid on Saturday night by a team from   police station, the officers arrested Animesh Mallick (49), one of the nursing home owners, and Sk Ruhul Islam (42), the manager. Police also seized important documents. Two other owners and Vicky, an ambulance owner, are still at large. None from the nursing home were available for comments. 
  
 
 
 The raid in 2016 by police and health department officials found shocking anomalies. According to a source, the irregularities included no trained medical staff in the ICU, absence of an RMO (resident medical officer) and lack of requisite qualification of nurses and para-medical staff. The hospital was also not maintaining any log book and patient register, including that for newborns.
 
 
 “This nursing home is run by a group of ambulance owners and touts and does not have proper infrastructure. In fact, there are at least 15 more nursing homes in Burdwan town that are functioning without trained manpower, qualified doctors and infrastructure. It’s high time the health department and district administration cracked down on them,” said a source in Bengal District Nursing Home and Hospital Association.
 
 
 Though the nursing home was served a closure notice till it rectified its shortcomings, it started functioning a month later. TOI could not verify if the health department was actually satisfied with the amendments the nursing home made before the department gave them the permission to reopen. Several calls to chief medical officer health Burdwan, Dr  , went unanswered.
 
 
 The nursing home was also accused of running an ambulance racket that fleece patients. Parents of Arijit Das, the Madhyamik candidate whose death brought the nursing home under lens again, wanted to bring the boy for treatment to Kolkata straight from   Subdivisional Hospital. But driver of another ambulance that ferried the boy from Rampurhat allegedly suggested them to admit Arijit to Annapurna Nursing home.
 
 
 “We have already initiated a probe against this nursing home. We will also look into this ambulance business and verify if they conform to norms,” said Anurag Srivastava, DM of Burdwan.
 
 
