CHENNAI: Candidates applying for   and learner's licences (LLR) from regional transport offices (RTOs) will soon have to sweat a lot harder to pass their tests. 

 The state road safety council on Friday resolved to double the number of questions in the objective test to secure an LLR and upgrade the question bank. The council has also told the RTOs to conduct an oral test on rules to be adopted while driving at night and at hill stations for licence applicants. Besides this, applicants will have to demonstrate a predrive vehicle safety check. 
 
 These reforms are part of the transport department's efforts to regulate the driving licence system to cut the road accident rate. 
 
 At present, the objective test for LLR applicants contains 10 questions and most RTOs conduct it as a token exercise. Moreover, the questions from the question bank are repetitive in nature. The evaluation process is lenient and even those who score 50% are declared passed, said an official. "To eliminate this shortcoming, the state transport department would soon be coming out with an upgraded question bank containing more than 500 questions from topics related to road safety, road signs and driving theories," he added. 
 
 
 
 A total of 20 questions would be selected from the question bank on a random basis.
 
 As far as licence applicants are concerned, candidates are expected to demonstrate a pre-drive vehicle safety check before undergoing the actual driving tests at testing tracks. A pre-drive check includes checking the brakes, belts, position of the rear-view mirrors and headlights.
 
 Besides this, an oral test on rules to be followed while driving at night and hill stations would be conducted alongside other mandatory tests.
 
 The RTOs have been instructed not to be lenient while evaluating the test results, the official added. LLR applicants will have to score at least 60% to clear the written test. Candidates who have failed the tests can reappear after a week (for LLR) or a month (for driving licences).
 
 The road safety council has also resolved to make rules pertaining to   more stringent. The council said it would not go soft on   without speed governors.
 
 RTOs across the state have stopped issuing fitness and registration certificates to commercial vehicles without the speed-control devices. The sale of   has increased as a consequence.
 
 
 
 
