NAGPUR: The state government has approved a Rs 1,015 crore plan for mitigating water problems prevailing in the city for drinking and some parts of the district for irrigation following the construction of the Chaurai dam by the Madhya Pradesh (MP) government on Pench river. Special permission has been given to   (VIDC) for beginning works on seven lift irrigation schemes under the plan.

 
 
 The water resources department (WRD) has issued a notification on Wednesday. CM Devendra Fadnavis has approved the plan under the drought mitigation scheme. The need for special measures was felt after the state lost 60% of water from the Totladoh dam following the construction of the Chaurai dam.
 
 The plan aims to develop new sources of water with capacity of 188 million meter cube (MMC) that will irrigate 26,370 hectare agriculture land. More water for irrigation will pave way for increase in raw drinking water allocation to the   (NMC) from Totladoh irrigation reservoir.
 
 Divided into three parts, the VIDC will develop seven lift irrigation schemes, of which three are on Kanhan river, two on Sur river and two at   and Sand nullah, at the cost of Rs 245 crore under phase-I. 
 
 Also, the VIDC will develop lift irrigation schemes at the coal mines of WCL at Inder, Kamptee and Gondegaon at the cost of Rs 22 crore. Around 28 MMC water from the three mines will be lifted for irrigation of 3,360 hectare agriculture land.
 
 Special permission has been given to VIDC for floating tenders to execute the works before administrative approval. Work orders will have to be issued after administrative approval.
 
 Following efforts from guardian minister Chandrashekar Bawankule, the government has approved the lift irrigation schemes under solar power.
 
 The government has appointed the central government’s WAPCOS Limited as consultant for the project. VIDC sources told TOI that WAPCOS has started to prepare a detailed project report and design of all works approved under the plan.
 
 VIDC superintending engineer LP Ingle told TOI that water from seven schemes will be released in canals of Totladoh irrigation reservoir and those situated on its downstream like Navegaon Khairi. “It has been planned for the forthcoming kharif season. Excess water in Kanhan and Sur rivers that otherwise goes into Gosikhurd dam will be tapped in these schemes. The VIDC will develop a water network and related infrastructure from these schemes to beneficiaries in phase-II at the cost of Rs 470 crore,” he said.
 
 Under phase-III, the VIDC will repair and augment right and left bank canals of Totladoh irrigation reservoir at the cost of Rs 300 crore.
 
 Official sources told TOI that water crisis will increase manifold during kharif and rabi season if works get delayed. “The plan was decided in September last year but approved now. The NMC, some more civic bodies and Mahagenco’s Koradi and Khaparkheda thermal power stations will also require to pay high tariff for water,” sources said.
 
 As reported by TOI on May 26, the central water commission (CWC) had constituted a five-member committee to study and suggest water allocation to the state and MP from Pench river within three months.
 
 
