MUMBAI: Lakhs of citizens were inconvenienced in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai due to massive power outage on Friday following the tripping of two transformers at MSETCL (Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Co. Ltd) in Kalwa during the early hours of the day. 

 
  
  
 
 Power utility firms, including BEST in island city, Tata Power and Reliance Energy in the suburbs and MSEDCL (Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd) in Bhandup-Mulund, Thane and Navi Mumbai, carried out ‘rotational load-shedding’ for two to four hours to deal with the shortfall. 
 
 Sources said it will take nearly seven days for the first transformer, which got burnt in the fire, and 30-40 days for the second, to be restored. So, consumers can expect more load-shedding for at least a week, sources said.
 
 An MSEDCL official said, “We are carrying out cuts in phases and area-wise to minimise inconvenience.” A BEST official said till Friday afternoon, the island city faced no cuts. “But due to shortfall of 250-300MW power in Mumbai, of which 100MW was for BEST consumers, we resorted to cuts from 4pm,” the official said, adding this could continue on Saturday. The cuts were in Mahim, Wadala, and Parel and then in south Mumbai. Rotational cuts were carried out in the suburbs, Thane and Navi Mumbai. Officials said supply was also cut for a few hospitals in central Mumbai for some time. 
 
 Parts of the western suburbs, including Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, Andheri and of the eastern suburbs including Ghatkopar, Chembur, Tilak Nagar, Vikhroli, Powai-Kanjurmarg, Bhandup and Mulund were hit.
 
 Citizens were shocked by the sudden outage amid hot and humid weather. Many woke up in the middle of the night as fans and ACs stopped working. “We faced cuts from 1.30am to 4am and couldn’t sleep,” said a Dadar resident. Residents were fuming as lifts stopped working and water pumps were not operational early morning.
 
 “How can you live without a fan or AC in this weather? Stepping out too was frustrating as humidity was high,” said Rohan Kulkarni, a Ghatkopar resident. The situation was worse in Navi Mumbai and Thane, with MSEDCL supply areas like Kopri, Vitawa, Kalva, Airoli, Rabale, Vashi, Ghansoli and Koparkhairne badly hit, sources said. The industrial areas of Thane-Belapur and Turbhe MIDC were also affected.
 
 In Navi Mumbai the cuts were throughout the day. An MSEDCL official said, “In Navi Mumbai, there was scheduled monsoon maintenance work on Friday so cuts were planned in advance. The latest crisis added to citizens’ woes. But we will just have rotational load-shedding on Saturday.”
 
 A source from Mahatransco, the state power transmission company, said, “While two transformers were hit, the third was functional in Kalwa. But peak load in the afternoon led to a burst in the third transformer. We had teams on the spot to rectify the fault within an hour.” Officials said work was being carried out on a ‘war footing.’
 
 “If there is no peak demand, firms will be able to supply electricity to most consumers. But as demand is high in summer, consumers will have to bear with us,” an official said, appealing to citizens to save power and switch off fans, lights and ACs when not in use to reduce the load.
 
 Another government official said, “We are doing rotational load-shedding so cuts get distributed over many areas and are not confined to one area for long. But as restoration of transformers will take 7 days, there may be outages in the next few days.”
 
 A Tata spokesperson said, “Tata Power has picked up full load on all its Trombay and Hydro units and has resorted to rotational 30-60 minutes load-shedding which will cause some inconvenience to customers in Salsette, Kolshet, Saki, Vikhroli, Dharavi, Borivli and Powai. Tata Power’s embedded generation in Mumbai (Trombay and Hydro) is not only being maintained full but increased compared to other normal days at this critical juncture to minimise consumer inconvenience.”
 
 A Reliance Energy spokesperson said: “Due to tripping in MSETCL grid, there was a constraint on Mumbai’s transmission corridor. We were forced to do rotational load-shedding in Bandra, Santacruz, Andheri, Chembur, Ghatkopar, Tilak Nagar and Vikhroli. After normalcy in supply from grid, we have restored supply at 5.15pm.”
 
 
