PUNE: Representatives of coaching classes in Maharashtra are confident about convincing the state government to let them decide the fees and head count per batch in the proposed Maharashtra Private Coaching Regulation Act 2018.

 They met education minister   and  , head of the committee drafting the act on Tuesday.
 
 The representatives said the state government had assured them that there would be no interference in the fees and size of classes but expressed clear intention to crack down on the integrated tie-up system and the practice of school or college teachers coaching in private classes.
 
 Bandopant Bhuyar, state president of Professional Teachers’ Association, and also a member of the regulation committee of coaching classes, said, " Coaching classes depend on skilled people. There cannot be any fixed fee for the skills of a doctor and similarly there cannot be a fixed fee for coaching."
 
 The representatives submitted their point of view about the optimal class size. They said a few overstep, but the rest should not be punished and hence a limit should not be placed on the number of students, Bhuyar said, adding that there was agreement on two points raised by owners about fees and the size of classes.
 
 Bhuyar said, "We are hopeful that the final draft of the bill will incorporate the changes discussed before it comes for discussion in the state assembly. The outcome of the four deliberations we have had with the government should show in the final draft."
 
 Integrated coaching system, in which colleges allow private tutors to use their campus for coaching, is rising. This will be banned under the proposed law. Registration will be mandatory for every coaching class for which a fee will be charged.
 
 Before the registration process is complete, the institute will have to prove that it has premises is authorized by the local body, has parking space, separate wash rooms for girls and boys and a secure perimeter. Classes that are renewing their registrations will also have to submit proof of complete tax payments.
 
 Mhamane told TOI on Wednesday, "The coaching class owners had some objections about a few points in the bill. We are seeking suggestions from all the stakeholders before the draft is finalised. I would not be able to say when the draft will be final and out for implementation."
 
 
