HYDERABAD: Even as the police have been trying to improve safety and security on   ( ), Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) has entrusted toll collection work to a new agency, which has begun operations without having any arrangements in place.

 
 HMDA had to provide CCTV cameras at all the toll plazas and booths locations, but they have not been installed yet. Sources said CCTV cameras were not provided, as optical fibre cable was not available at many places.
 
  
  
 
 Admitting that security arrangements such as installation of CCTV cameras were not made at the toll plazas, HMDA chief general manager (ORR), Sheik  , said, “We have to lay optical fibre cables at some places.”
 
 The earlier CCTV cameras on ORR were installed by the previous contractor, which took them away after their contract ended.
 
 To make matters worse, the new agency is not even accepting payments in any electronic mode like PayTm, T-wallet etc. Instead, it’s accepting only cash. So, commuters are raising concerns, as many of them use the route to reach the airport, even late at nights.
 
 HMDA hurriedly entrusted the toll collection to M/s IRB Infrastructure Developers Ltd on May 24. Officials say this operator was selected to carry out toll collection for the next nine months as they had offered to pay Rs 87 lakh per day to the authority, which is the highest amount. On its part, HMDA had to provide infrastructure facilities to the agency for toll collection.
 
 V Satish, a resident of Hyderangar, and a regular commuter on the ORR, said, “When we tried to register our complaint with HMDA, there was no register with the toll collection contractor. Their numbers or HMDA numbers were also not available at the booths.”
 
 Commuters are also worried as there is no illumination at the toll plazas and booths, even though several accidents have taken place due to poor visibility in the past.
 
 Sources said the new agency has not started paying the Rs 87 lakh per day to HMDA. Imam said the agency has not started payment to the authority as they have not yet opened a bank account. “If there is any delay, there is a provision to levy penalty on the contractor,” Imam said.
 
 Interestingly, the toll collection for the last one week has been about Rs 60 lakh per day, which is far less than what was quoted by the agency.
 
 HMDA officials said the contract with the earlier agency expired on May 23 and that the agreement with the new contractor is temporary. Before the expiry of the contract, HMDA had invited bids for awarding the new contract for toll fee collections using the authority’s infrastructure for nine months, extendable by three months. Three bids were received and the highest bid was for Rs 26 crore per month to be paid to HMDA.
 
 “There were court cases and the authority made attempts to vacate the court orders. Since courts are in vacation, temporary arrangements were made to avoid revenue loss to HMDA,” said T Chiranjeevulu, HMDA commissioner.
 
 Officials said monthly passes that were issued earlier will be valid in the new agency.
 
 
