BENGALURU: Home to 72.6 lakh vehicles, Bengaluru has just 3,400   personnel, leaving the city with the worst traffic police-to-vehicle ratio among major cities of the country. The sanctioned strength of 5,200.

 While there’s one traffic cop in Bengaluru for 2,134 vehicles, Kolkata, which has 16 lakh vehicles, enjoys a 1:421 ratio. With a massive 1.01 crore vehicles, Delhi traffic police has the second-least ratio at 1:1773 while Chennai, which has 53.37 lakh vehicles, has one traffic police personnel managing 1,524 vehicles. The ratio for Hyderabad, which has 28.73 lakh vehicles, is 1:1126 and in Mumbai (31 lakh vehicles), one traffic cop manages an average of 877 vehicles.
 
 Across the country, severely short-staffed traffic police are struggling with rising vehicular population and air pollution. Traffic cops are responsible for managing traffic and also booking cases against offenders.
 
 Shortage of cops often leads to poor enforcement of rules and may cause accidents. The existing staff are also forced to do additional duty in tough conditions. The actual number of cops on the ground would be less as many are absent, on leave or deployed for VIP duty and office work.
 
 Experts say most metros in the country have not increased the number of traffic cops in sync with the vehicle population. 
 
 “Ideally, one policeman should be appointed for every 1,000 vehicles. Unfortunately, most cities don’t meet these standards. The government should recruit adequate number of traffic personnel," traffic expert M N   said.
 
 Bengaluru’s traffic cops are now more dependent on technology to book offenders. Nearly 30% of total cases were booked through the automated enforcement system. In 2017, Bengaluru Traffic Police booked over 1 crore cases, of which 30.3 lakh were booked through high-resolution surveillance cameras and red light violation detection cameras (RLVD).
 
 Additional commissioner of police (traffic)   said: “We prioritize our work and focus on high-priority areas in view of manpower shortage.” Many motorists complain that absence of traffic cops causes traffic bottlenecks in major roads, particularly during peak hours.
 
 
 
 
 Bengaluru’s traffic cops are now more dependent on technology to book offenders. Nearly 30% of total cases were booked through the automated enforcement system. In 2017, Bengaluru traffic police booked over 1 crore cases, of which 30.3 lakh were through highresolution surveillance cameras and red light violation detection cameras. Additional commissioner of police (traffic) R Hithendra said: “We prioritize our work and focus on highpriority areas in view of manpower shortage.”
 
 
 
