MARGAO: PSI   came in for much appreciation from the residents of   after she went beyond her call of duty to reach out to the residents of Camral, Curchorem, after rainwater inundated their houses late Thursday night. 

 The incident occurred around 10.30pm when the state was hit by a brief spell of torrential rain. As the work of construction of a culvert was under way at Camral, the contractor had carved out a temporary pathway for the movement of traffic by blocking the natural flow of a stream. As the flow of rainwater was blocked, the accumulation of water led to water rising to alarming levels, thereby inundating the houses in the locality. Water entered into some 10 houses, most of which were rented out to migrant labourers, and their belongings began drifting away with the strong flow of water.
 
 A wall of a house belonging to Bhanudas Kalangutkar caved in, though no casualties were reported as the occupants of the house had been safely rescued, sources informed. 
 
 Coutinho, who resides a distance away from the site of the incident, waded through the stream in pitch darkness and led the locals in rescuing the occupants who were stranded inside their houses. Showing presence of mind, Coutinho called up a private crane service and requisitioned its services. An earthmoving machine was deployed to remove the mud and gravel that had blocked the smooth flow of water into the river. Sources said that Coutinho even bore the expenses for the crane services.
 
 “The lady police officer, with her amazing ability to galvanise men and machinery in emergency situation, averted a major tragedy. There were children who were also stranded in the houses. The rise in water level rendered the village cut off from the road network. Prompt action by the cop saved the situation,” an eyewitness said. 
 
 Coutinho when contacted, played down her valiant deed. “I was driven by an instinct feeling to go out and help; fortunately the crane service provider heeded my request for his services. As humans, we are bound to help each other,” Coutinho said, modestly.
 
 
