Nagpur: The tight PET schedule and tough norms like increased negative marking seems to have had an impact on PhD aspirants. By the last day of applying for the first PhD entrance test (PET-I) December 30, Nagpur University (NU) had received just 2,180 applications.

 Last time, over 4,300 had applied for the entrance test, but 200 aspirants managed to get Research & Recognition Committee (RRC) approval to start their study. In 2011 when first PET was held, 3,100 had applied while 934 cleared the exam.
 
 Guides and aspirants accused NU of “discouraging people from taking up PhD in the name of reforms”. They asked why the emphasis is more only on bringing down the number of scholars and not ensuring that only original and quality studies are completed on the campus.
 
 On October 22, TOI was the first to report about NU’s decision to increase negative marking despite opposition from some of the RRC members. On December 24 and 26, TOI also highlighted the anomalies in the new direction and the schedule that gave very less time for applying.
 
 Some NU guides said the UGC’s plagiarism policy addresses quality concerns and it has been incorporated in the new direction. “There was no need to make things so difficult that people either drop plan to pursue research from Nagpur University or fail to meet the conditions,” they said.
 
 They said normally, an average of 200 studies were being undertaken annually. “Now, if applicants have gone down by half, the final number of PhDs from this batch could be in two digits,” they said.
 
 As per the UGC policy, faculty, staff and researchers would face harsh penalties such as denial of increment and a ban of up to three years from publishing their work depending on the percentage of plagiarism.
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is chairman of RRC, didn’t respond to TOI’s calls.
 
 The ordeal of researchers won’t stop even after going through the gruelling PET exams. The next big challenge is finding a place of research followed by assessment of their work after years of toil.
 
 Last year, NU had made it a must to have a guide belonging to place of research and scholars were not allowed to choose a different combination. Such norms rendered many guides and aspirants idle for at least a year and more in case of students.
 
 
