PUNE: The tree authority of   has ordered an inquiry into the alleged tree cutting inside two prime plots along the Mutha river which were recently de-reserved from the proposed Salim Ali Bird Sanctury project. 

 Led by Pune tree authority member Manoj Pachpute, a group of residents on Thursday inspected the plots. They claimed that several trees on these plots have been axed and the plot has been levelled and concreted. They said no prior permission was sought from the authority for the tree cutting.
 
 Recently, local residents from  , led by activist  , wrote to the Prime Minister demanding his intervention into the de-reservation of the plots. 
 
 Pachpute said, “Until a few months ago, there was thick greenery on these plots. All of a sudden the plot was covered from all sides. During our recent visit, we were shocked to see that there is not a single tree on these plots and how they have been axed so brazenly in a short period.”
 
 The activists, including Dhananjay Jadhav from the locality, have claimed that at least 500 trees on these plots may have been cut. Jadhav said, “The recent tree census could be the basis for cross-checking the details of the trees in these plots. We have already raised an alarm with the civic body and demanded immediate and strict action against violators.”
 
 Earlier this month, activists led by Satish Khot of   were up in arms against the state’s decision to delete the reservation of a portion of land in the Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary located here. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials confirmed that the reservation on the plot at the bird sanctuary has been changed. They said the changes were made by the state.
 
 When contacted, assistant commissioner and zonal tree officer Vasant Patil said, “We have not received any written complaint regarding felling of trees on the said plots. However, some activists raised an alarm on Thursday morning about it. Around 4 pm, we sent our officials to inspect the plots. We will seek a detailed report from them, conduct an inquiry about the proceedings and then take action against those violating the law.”
 
 
