NAGPUR: Delhi chief minister and   national convener Arvind   is visiting the city on January 27 and 28. What has come as a surprise is that though he is known as the most rabid critic of   and the BJP, he is coming on an official visit as state guest to study ongoing development works of the city done under   rule.

 The sole purpose of the 24 hour tour is to have a close look at the development projects initiated by the   where union minister and city MP Nitin Gadkari’s writ runs. Several projects like selling recycled water to power plant, 24X7 drinking water supply, ethanol-run city bus, battery-driven taxis with e-charging facilities undertaken for the first time in the country have become city’s growth highlights.
 
 Far from a political visit for party activity, Kejriwal will be going to Bhandewadi dumping yard where the country’s first sewage water recycling plant for use of a power plant is located. He will also take time out for a presentation on 24X7 water supply in which Nagpur has taken lead and now several other cities are trying to emulate. He will land in the city on January 27 and begin with inspection of e-charging station at airport and the ethanol-run green bus.
 
 “We are happy he is coming to see development projects in the city,” was all that Gadkari’s office said when asked if Kejriwal was visiting on Gadkari’s invitation. After night halt at Ravi Bhavan on Saturday, he will spend Sunday visiting various NMC projects and also the Metro rail office at   before leaving the city. Possibility of the two leaders having a dinner or lunch meeting is not ruled out.
 
 The visit has raised eyebrows as it comes within days of 20 AAP MLAs of Delhi being disqualified in an action of the Election Commission that has been dubbed by Kejriwal as part of Modi-government’s conspiracy against his regime. In fact, there is an ongoing defamation case filed by Gadkari against Kejriwal and AAP for the charges levelled during 2014 election campaign. Sources, however, say that Kejriwal and Gadkari have made up and are now in good terms.
 
 
