Madhu Daithota

 Hi. This is Kannada rapper  ,” he says on picking up the call. The   Season 5 winner has not had a moment to sit down with family and soak in his big victory, and has only been giving back-to-back interviews to TV channels and various publications. “But I’m not complaining. It’s been tiring, yes, but I wouldn’t have it any other way. This has been my parents’ dream. I had initially rejected the offer to be on Bigg Boss, but they insisted and I took it up. They felt that I have not got my due for my rapping skills and that this could be the best platform to showcase my talent to its full extent. They wanted me to be known as Kannada rapper Chandan Shetty, so that’s what I’d like to be called henceforth,” he says. 
 The Sakleshpur boy says that he hasn’t been able to fully grasp the extent of his popularity, but got a glimpse of it as he came out of the Bigg Boss home that is located at a film city on the outskirts of the city. “Some 300 school kids had come to visit the film city and on seeing me, they came running towards me screaming ‘Chandan, Chandan’ and I was taken aback by the kind of admiration they had for me. I was pleasantly surprised to know that even school kids had been watching the show,” he says.
 Chandan adds, “Frankly, when I entered the show, all I wanted to do was to ensure that I survive for 98 days — the stipulated period which would get me the payment we had agreed upon. Also, never during my interactions with Sudeep did I get an inkling that I had attained such popularity outside. Only after my win, the makers of the show revealed to me that this was done intentionally so that I don’t get a clue of the kind of response I had generated outside. All I knew was that everybody was liking the kind of music I was making inside the BB home. C’mon think, of it, I was not involved in controversies nor was I buttering people up, so I didn’t think I stood a great chance of fetching attention.”
 So, what did he enjoy most about his stint on the show? “It taught me survival skills. To be in the same environment 24/7 for over three months with the same folks, some of whom you may not even like, is a lesson in itself. In the process, to not lose your individuality and to find various ways to keep it alive is what I enjoyed most,” Chandan tells us. The stint has also taught him a few precious lessons, adds the Kannada rapper. “People had a notion that Chandan Shetty heavy duddu ittavne, rich music videos madtane, so he must be a loud guy. But I am extremely shy in real life. Bigg Boss taught me to open up and talk. I started opening up after the first few weeks and I’m glad that I have become talkative today,” he points out. 
 Another interesting observation audiences have made is Chandan’s deep thoughts and philosophical ideas that he’s expressed on the show. “I’ve always been that way. But it’s from books — I’m a bad reader. But I am a great listener. Life experiences have also made me what I am today and I explain that through examples. For instance, I compared Bigg Boss to an ocean, its technicians to ships and the days there to the waves. Each of them have a big role to play in pushing the ship towards its destination and that’s what Bigg Boss does to all of us,” concurs Chandan. Finally, the big question: what next? “To make more music. My sole aim is to put Kannada rap on the world stage and make it play alongside English music. Kannada rapper Chandan Shetty will do that some day, and that’s a promise,” he sums up.
 
 
 
 
  Chandan’s fondness for   was 
 frequently shown on the show. What’s happening on that front? “Ayyo, adu sumne dove madkondu idde. Everybody was aware of it. It gets 
 boring sometimes and to keep myself happy, I indulged in such playful things. She knows it, too. But yes, my friendship with   is true. Unlike what some contestants shared on TV interviews after elimination, I genuinely like Diwakar and it wasn’t a ploy to get votes from the common man,” says Chandan.
 
 
 
 Being in the BB house can break you down sometimes and Chandan’s way of staying sane was music. “Luckily, I found a piece of furniture on which I could drum. Also, talking to Nivedita was a great stress buster,” he adds.
 
 
 
