Trichy: After an expert team from National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy inspected the damaged portion of the pedestrian platforms on old Cauvery bridge and suggested modification works to ensure safety, Trichy-Padalur Tollways Private Limited has commenced renovation works on the bridge.  The strengthening works that include reinforcing with steel rods and laying a concrete layer were initiated on a trial and error basis on a portion of the bridge. Once the NIT team acknowledged its safety after inspecting the refurbished portion, similar work would be executed throughout the bridge, sources said. The works were necessitated by the death of Lalitha, 46, a woman pilgrim from Ariyamangalam heading to Samayapuram temple on foot, who plunged through the cavity of a damaged pedestrian platform on the bridge on April 17. Subsequently, NHAI Trichy Project Implementation Unit (PIU) had sought a report from Trichy-Padalur Tollways which was maintaining a stretch of NH45 on Chennai bypass road under which the bridge fell.  On a request from the tollways management, a team of experts from the civil engineering department of NIT Trichy had assessed its rigidity and suggested renovating the pedestrian platforms on April 19. “Based on suggestions from NIT faculties, a portion of pedestrian platform close to the Kumbakonathan road was taken up. A one-metre-long portion will be reinforced with steel rods and concrete layer laid over it,” said an official with the tollways limited. The NIT experts would check the renovated portion in a couple of days and after their assessment the strengthening process might be carried out on the entire pedestrian platforms on the old Cauvery bridge. “We have completed reinforcing the damaged platforms with steel rods and concrete layer would be laid shortly. We have been meeting the expenses of the modification works from the emergency fund, but the estimate for completing the works on the entire stretch is yet to be arrived at,” the private tollways official added. For now, the city police have placed warning boards asking pedestrians not to use the pedestrian platforms until the renovation works are completed. Sources involved in the refurbishment works said that the strengthening process of platforms would be completed in a month. 