BENGALURU: Shrinking job opportunities in the IT sector doesn't seem to have affected the mood on campuses in Bengaluru. Placement officers across the city say 2017-18 has been a fruitful year as far as campus recruitments are concerned.

 Companies, known as 'mass-recruiters', have, however, slashed their intake from campus recruitment, shifting focus to more skill-based knowledge than marks and academic performances, placement officers said. The onus is on placement officers to attract new companies to their campuses to compensate the shortfall.
 
 With companies choosing students with knowledge of automation, robotics and more, the motto is skilling to make a killing. "Placement officers need to attract new companies. This is a positive shift in the trend. Students must have knowledge of artificial intelligence, internet of things, virtual reality and more," said K S  , placement director, PES University. 
 
 MS Ramaiah Institute of Technology has seen a sharp tilt in hiring strategies. What once was just a single round of interview has now shaped into an initial round of hack-a-thon followed by aptitude test and interview.
 
 Savitha Konna, placement director at MSRIT, told TOI: "Mass recruiters have reduced their intake from our institute by 20-30%, but the general trend in campus placements has been very positive. This year, we had 40-45 new companies offering good salary packages, which could compensate the loss of recruitment by mass recruiters. Companies are looking at niche-based hiring. They want to do away with months of training, so it's really on students to enhance their skills to make the cut." 
 
    (RVCE) saw 169 companies making 1,010 offers. Last year, 207 companies visited RVCE and made 1,142 offers. "Companies like   and  , who would opt for mass recruitment with packages of Rs 3 lakh per annum, now come with packages of Rs 10 lakh to Rs 17 lakh per annum. This shows the industry is looking at skills, and the placement office has been working on creating this awareness among students and faculty," said D  , placement officer, RVCE. The highest offer made for its students was Rs 40 lakh per annum.
 
 
 "Earlier C ++ was one of the main skills IT companies would look at, but now they need students who have knowledge of Java and more. However, a college cannot cater to just one specific skill set and must offer students a variety of topics to make them industry-ready. This is a challenge we face because the current needs of the industry are very different from what academia offers," said  , placement director, CMR Institute of Technology.
 
 
