The   Class 12 board exams have already hit off from March 5 and 28 lakh students appeared for the same. The first subject for class 12 was English, which a favorite of many. Smiling with a sigh of relief, almost all the students were satisfied with this year’s paper. Hardly any student found the paper difficult or found anything out of the syllabus.

 For the students with Science stream, the next subject is Physics on March 7, 2018. Students often complain that the physics exam was difficult and the mock papers are equally tough to solve. Thus, cracking the Physics exam often becomes a herculean task for many. 
 
 Regardless of what has been happening and what others feel, the fact is, if you plan well and clear all concepts in class, you can definitely come out with flying colors. 
 
 Here are some quick last moment tips for that thrust to your preparations:
 
 
 
 Stick to the NCERT book, thoroughly go through the solved example, graph, and diagram, especially-
 a) Diagrams for few devices like cyclotron and potentiometer to name a few.
 b) Ray diagram for Astronomical Telescope, Compound Microscope and Reflecting Telescope.
 
 
 
 
 
 Make sure to learn all definitions and laws, especially Gauss’s Law, Ampere’s circuital law, Lenz’s law, self-inductance, mutual inductance, definition of one Henry, wattless current, power factor and quality factor.
 
 
  
 
 
 Pen down a list of all formulae along with what each variable represents and derivations.
 
 
 
 
 
 Solve previous years’ question papers. This will help in increasing your speed and give you sufficient practice. For self-analysis, write at least four to five tests timed exactly the same as Boards pattern and try to complete it in 2 ½ hours and not three hours.
 
 
 
 
 
 • The paper might be lengthy; there is no need to panic during the exam. Even the best plans can go wrong if you give in to fear. Thus, it is best advised to attempt the questions that you are confident about, rather than wasting the time on questions you are not too sure about.
 
 • Try to attempt the exam with minimum cutting and overwriting, and with neat headings.
 
 • It is advisable to start with 5 and 3 marks question, which require elaborate and part-wise answers. This will help build your confidence early on while writing the paper.
 
