CHANDIGARH: The   Legislative Assembly, on Thursday, passed the   (salary, allowances and pension of members) Amendment Bill, 2018, curbing exaggerated pension received by former MLAs. 

 As per the amendment, a member, who became a pensioner after completion of the first term on January 1, 2016, would be entitled to draw Rs 50,000 per month as pension for his first term and Rs 2,000 for each year or part thereof, subsequent to the first term. 
 
 The   will be entitled to dearness relief at the rates prescribed by the government from time to time for the state government’s post-2016 pensioners. At present, former MLAs of the state are being given a pension of Rs 50,000 per month with effect from October 1, 2013 plus Rs 1,500 for each additional year, subsequent to the first term and 50% as dearness pension.
 
 In spite of revision of pension four times after January 1, 1996, they are drawing dearness relief at the rate of 245% on the above emoluments, which is equal to the rate of dearness relief which would have been admissible to state government pensioners had their pension not been revised after January 1, 1996.
 
 Former MLAs will now be entitled to draw either dearness relief (fixed) or dearness relief at the rates prescribed by the government from time to time for their post-2016 pensioners, whichever is higher.
 
 Former MLAs and their family members will also be allowed special travelling allowance up to Rs 10,000 per month, provided their monthly pension and dearness relief does not exceed Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Announcing the decision to rationalise pension and allowances of former MLAs, Haryana chief minister   said the wrongs of the previous regimes while fixing their pension and dearness allowance at the cost of people’s money had been righted. It appears they were rewarding themselves, he said.
 
 Former MLAs who are getting excess pension will continue to get the same but in future, they will not get a hike on what they are presently withdrawing. Prior to this bill, former MLAs were withdrawing 245% DA, making the pension of some of former MLAs, who have served for 3 to 4 terms, up to Rs 2 lakh per month.
 
 
