MUMBAI: Four months after 56   were   from her Pune flat, a woman has approached Bombay  , seeking return of her pets and action against people who took them away. The matter was mentioned before a division bench of Justices Bhushan Gavai and Burgess Colabawalla last week. The bench has scheduled the matter for hearing on January 18.

 Sangeeta Kapur (42) claimed in her petition that she and her family were harassed by police and persons claiming to be animal welfare officers. The fashion designer said she stays with her 73-year-old mother, who is blind, and a sister, in two apartments at Kondhwa Road. One flat was used exclusively to house around 56 cats, most of whom were rescued. 
 
 She alleged that some self-appointed “vigilantes”, along with police officers, broke open the door of one flat around the midnight of September 11, 2017. The cats were seized and taken to an animal shelter. Her flat was  , and gold and cash were stolen from the cupboard, she alleged. Kapur was booked under the Indian Penal Code for causing the spread of infectious diseases and neglecting to take care of animals. Offences under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act were lodged against Kapur, accusing her of torturing animals and failing to provide them food and drink. The activists had alleged that the cats were being kept in the house in unsanitary conditions.
 
 Kapur said police subsequently admitted they had not confiscated the cats or conducted the raid but only provided protection to the animal rights activists. Advocate Harshad Garud, Kapur’s counsel, said no confiscation report was submitted to court. “As per PCA Act, such seizure can only be done after obtaining court permission. In this case, even a panchnama was not done,” the petition said. Kapur was joined in the petition by Amit Shah, who runs an animal shelter, and was similarly targeted. 
 
 The petition urged the court to declare that the seizure of animals was illegal and return her pets. It also sought directions to the Animal Welfare Board of India to suspend the identity card of the person who led the seizure and who claimed to be an “animal welfare officer”. An FIR should also be issued against her for theft and issuing fake government identity cards, the petition added.
 
