GURUGRAM:   has issued notices to owners of four plots after they were found to be using the same photo for their land in online applications while seeking transfer permission. An FIR may also be lodged against the plot owners, officials said.

 Transfer permission from the urban development authority is a must for an owner to sell their plots.
 
 “As per rule, vacant plots need to have nine feet boundary wall at the time of applying for transfer permission. We found that the same photograph has been used with multiple applications for transfer permission,” estate officer-II   told TOI on Monday. “The plot owners have been identified and they have issued show-cause notices,” he added.
 
 Huda made the system of property management online on January 29, promising delivery of services within four working days.
 
  The online system is expected to cut out the middlemen or agents, and curb corruption.
 
 The latest incident of irregularities in transfer permission applications filed online has come as surprise to the authority. “It seems people are still relying on middlemen to get their work done despite the introduction of user-friendly system by us,” said Kalia. “Different applications having similar photographs are possible only when they are processed through third party,” he added.
 
 Under the new system, an application can be submitted and tracked online. The applicant will have to visit the estate office as per his appointment schedule allotted online only once for biometric verification and capture of a photograph. 
 
 Later digitally signed document will be available on the applicant’s page on the website in a downloadable format. But all these have failed to encourage people from applying for services on their own.
 
  “Under the new system, there is no place for middlemen. We urge people to file applications on their own to avoid any inconvenience. The work will be done in four working days, so there is no need to be dependent on anyone,” said Kalia.
 
 To ensure timely delivery of services, Huda has capped the number of applications to be accepted by the authority in a day. 
 
 “Initially, the system will accept only 18 applications a day. But gradually, we will increase the number of applications to 25 per day,” said Kalia. 
 
 The entire process will be completed within four working days from the date of submission of the application.
 
 
