Gold Coast:   champion   said it was great challenge to defeat   and called Sunday’s win an “emotional moment” after her disappointment in the Rio Games.

 
 
 
 
 “I put this victory next to the Olympic medal and world No. 1 ranking. It’s gift to my country, my dad and my mother. It’s a very emotional moment as I’ve been waiting for one big victory after the disappointing loss in Rio where I had to retire due to injury and I had to go through surgery,” Saina said.
 
 Calling it a tough final, especially after her outing in the Mixed Team event, Saina said: “It was neck and neck race in the second game and lot of tough, long rallies. For me it was tougher, as I had been playing for the last 10-11 days. I had to run more compared to Sindhu as she had better reach,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 It was Saina’s second straight win against Sindhu after beating her in the Indonesia Open.
 
 Asked about the rivalry between India’s top two players, Saina said it is good that people are enjoying it. “It’s a healthy rivalry and it’s a challenge to me as it is not easy to play someone who is ranked No. 3 in the world. In the second game, I was in bad shape. But I’m happy that I could pull it off. She had a big lead at 19-17 and I was trying to rally as I was low on stamina.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “I’d like to thank Gopi-sir for pushing me really hard in the last 2-3 months. Also, my physio Christopher. I was facing lot of injuries in my shin, ankle, knee etc. He came in and he gave me very good rehab programme that is helping me. Gopi-sir has worked on the right areas where he felt I was weak. His contribution is 60 per cent and physio’s 40,” she said.
 
 Saina also slammed the critics and said if she had lost there would have been hundreds of comments. “If I had lost then they would have asked, ‘Oh Saina lost, Saina is old, Saina should retire etc.’”
 
 She also said but for her aggressive stand, her dad would have never got the required accreditation. “I don’t mind fighting for my dad anywhere. Whatever people have written ‘Dad first, Country second’ is not correct. For two days I didn’t train as I was under pressure thinking about this. If I was not aggressive nothing would have happened. I don’t like controversies. But you have to fight it out.”
 
 Meanwhile, Sindhu was gracious in defeat but felt she didn’t have luck on her side in the second game. “The second game was anybody’s game. I could have won it. It was a good game overall. After 20-20 you can’t rely only on your fitness, you also need a bit of luck.”
 
 “If I had won the second game it would have been different in the third game. In the first I made a lot of errors. My defence play was quite well. Maybe today it was not my day,” Sindhu said.
 
 
 
 World No. 1 Kidambi Srikanth, who was beaten by Lee Chong Wei after winning the first game, said he lost it midway into the second game. “I played well but somehow lost the momentum in the second half of the second game. If you are playing the best you have to be at your best all the time. And then in the third game, I didn’t start well and gave him the early lead. You cannot expect him to drop (his level) and these days people retrieve almost everything,” Srikanth said.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
