PATNA: Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) president   and leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Sunday flayed the NDA government at the Centre for its alleged anti-SC/ST policies.

 Addressing his party’s ‘Vishal Garib Mahasammelan’ at the historic Gandhi Maidan here, Manjhi said, “The Centre should publish the caste census so that reservation is based on population size rather than blanket of 49% reservation. A special session of the Parliament should be called to abolish the bar on less than 50% reservation. It will benefit dalits and other weaker sections of society.”
 
 The former CM added that the “dilution” of Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 will make the Act toothless in preventing atrocities against dalits. Manjhi also demanded separate voter list for SC constituencies, so that voters from upper castes don’t dominate in the polling.
 
 Tejashwi said the BJP-led NDA government might abolish reservations as it is anti-dalit. “The BJP plays its politics based on six agendas – Hindu, Muslim, Mandir (temple), Masjid, Pakistan and Kashmir. It is for everyone to see that BJP says nothing apart from this six- point agenda,” Tejashwi said.
 
 The two leaders also trained guns at CM   over the issues of recent communal clashes and prohibition in the state. Tejashwi challenged Nitish to form the government on his own.
 
 “Nitish chacha has tried all options available with him to remain in power, but he cannot sustain without the support of other parties. He is playing ‘kursi-kursi’ with BJP. However, the government in state will not survive for long. Nitish will soon leave BJP as he has already started looking for another front,” Tejashwi claimed. Incidentally, LJP chief and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan on Sunday called on CM Nitish Kumar at his residence for the second time within a month to discuss current political scenario in the state. 
 
 He also accused the NDA government at the Centre of misusing central enforcement agencies to put his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad behind bars in multi-crore fodder scam. 
 
 “Lalu ji is tiger as he never surrendered to BJP. I am the son of the tiger and will continue to fight against BJP, no matter how much they harass my family,” Tejashwi said. 
 
 Congress’s   Rajesh Kumar also addressed Manjhi’s rally.
 
 
