Chennai: A flat denial by Tamil Nadu   that the ‘orderly’ system was not at all in existence among them since its official abolition in 1979, through a government order, has infuriated Madras   which on Monday warned officials against making such false submissions in courts.

 “Please warn your authorities not to file such false affidavits, I have exact numbers of orderlies in the force,” Justice N Kirubakaran said to advocate-general of Tamil Nadu Vijay Narayan.
 
 An official, who retired in 1990s is still provided with orderlies. In Madurai, a political person, who is also a history-sheeter, was provided with orderlies, of course, in different nomenclatures, the judge added. Noting that he had enough information to prove the existence of the system, Justice Kirubakaran said the authorities could not escape from the court, and that he expected such an affidavit from the department.
 
 “A perusal of the status   would show that the number of police personnel deserting the police force which was 608 in 2008 increased to 1,039 in 2017. The increase in number of deserters would go to show the gravity of problems faced by the personnel, which needs to be addressed very urgently. Similarly, for the past 10 years, about 296 police personnel are said to have committed suicide and about 3,032 police personnel are said to have died while in service for various reasons,” Justice Kirubakaran.
 
 Asserting that about 10 to 15% of the personnel in the police force were being used as orderlies, the judge directed the appearance of S Maheswaran, assistant inspector-general of police, who filed the affidavit in court, to explain the basis of his submissions.
 
 This apart, Justice Kirubakaran also directed the department to provide additional information as to the number of vehicles at the disposal of higher officials and family members of the higher officials, both serving and retired, number of police drivers employed in the residence of such officials, and in the residence of their relatives.
 
 The judge also wanted the government to answer as to why definite working hours shall not be fixed for police personnel, absence of which results in frustration, mental disturbance, violence and corruption.
 
 Noting that it was a fact that the police personnel were being employed for ‘orderly work’ under different nomenclatures as ‘other duty’ to see that the GO passed in 1979 was not violated, Justice Kirubakaran directed the government to explain as to when the GO dated October 31, 2012 which provided for appointment of residential office assistants to IPS officers would be implemented.
 
 He then posted the case to April 23 for passing orders.
 
 
