CHENNAI: The 117-year-old Victoria Hostel of Presidency College may finally get the makeover it desperately needs after funds were allocated during the state government budget to restore heritage buildings on three college campuses in the state.

 A fund of Rs26 crore has been allocated for restoration of heritage buildings in Queen Mary’s College, Victoria Hostel in Presidency College and Government Arts and Science College in Kumbakonam.
 
 The Victoria hostel building despite being is listed as a Grade I heritage structure in the   report is poorly maintained. Leaking pipes, peeling paint, crumbling walls and overcrowded rooms have been common complaints over the years. The college management too had come under the radar for the shabby state of affairs at the hostel especially after a disabled student was injured on the premises last year.
 
 Principal of Presidency College, Pramananda Perumal said several portions of the heritage structure needs to be restored. “Earlier, an amount had been sanctioned for restoration work which was insufficient and a revised estimate of about Rs3.2 crore was submitted by the Public Works Department. We are assuming that amount is part of the new allocation,” he said. A heritage committee had alsoinspected the building last year. While the work is yet to start on preserving the old structure, a new hostel building on the campus is coming up at cost of Rs10 crore, he added. 
 
 Queen Mary’s College, established in 1914 also has several century-old buildings on its campus. In 2003, the state was criticised when it wanted to raze them down to make way for a new secretariat complex. “From considering taking over the building to allocating funds for restoration, the government seems to have reversed its stand and it is a fantastic move. For Victoria Hostel too, barely any maintenance work has been done over the past decade so it is high time it is refurbished as the amenities are extremely poor,” said an official at University of Madras, to which college is affiliated. 
 
 University of Madras vice-chancellor   welcomed the government’s move and said the amount allocated would help the colleges restore the structures. “We welcome the government’s move and appreciate the initiative. We have also been seeking support from government for maintaining the   building on our campus, which needs attention,” he said. Some varsity officials expressed surprise that the Senate building had not been included under this allocation for heritage structures.
 
 
