JAIPUR: With all the hurdles cleared, the   underground corridor between Badi Chaupar and Chandpol in the   is expected to be completed by September. According to metro officials, 80 per cent civil work of the metro stations and tracks has been completed and the   ( ) is hoping to complete work in stipulated deadline. Moreover, as digging of both the tunnels has been completed, the department will soon start the work of laying tracks and electrification.

 
 Project director, Ashwani Saxena said, “We have completed the work of laying track beds. Work to lay tracks, electrification and tunnel ventilation has been awarded. Soon, the contract will be awarded for signal, telecommunication and fare collection work.” The JMRC has prepared safety plans to allay those fears. On a 2.349-km underground Metro corridor, the JMRC has created mini-tunnels connecting the twin tunnels for commuters to exit during emergencies such as fire, train breakdown, etc.
 
 An official explained that these are termed as cross-passages. The JMRC has constructed five cross-passages which are smaller in diameter and connect the two tunnels through which people can pass. They are provided to serve two primary purposes – emergency escape and maintenance work. “There will be a cross-passage after approximately every 240-metre distance inside the underground tunnel.” said a senior JMRC official.
 
 These cross-passages are built as per the   (National Fire Precaution Association, USA) 130, 2014 guidelines. Cross-passages (CP) are built with reinforced concrete.” As per JMRC, the project is expected to be completed by September, 2018. The deadline was revised from June to December as design of the stations was changed several times. The official said the design of reversal line at Ramganj was also revised to construct two additional floors. The design was revised after Rs 15 crore was earmarked for constructing a shopping area and parking space.
 
 Sources at JMRC said, “During the JMRC managing director’s visit on Monday directions were given to complete all the work by September, before the model code of conduct is implemented.”
 
