NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation ( ) has asked senior executives and partners of  's companies not to leave the country while the investigation is underway, even as the agency on Monday questioned four senior executives of the group, including Vipul Ambani and Ravi Gupta.

 
 CBI sources said Ambani, president, finance and corporate development, at Nirav's company Firestar International Pvt Ltd; the firm's chief financial officer (CFO) Ravi Gupta; international finance division president Saurabh Sharma; and senior executive Subhash Parab were called for questioning at its Mumbai office. They were asked about the company's business in India and abroad, foreign transactions and other details, the sources said.
 
 The agency is also learnt to have summoned a few other executives of Nirav's company, including Kavita Mankikar (authorised signatory), Emilla (personal assistant), and one Prateek Misra. On Nirav's employees being asked to avoid travelling abroad, a CBI source said, "It's a precautionary measure. We want these people to remain available for investigation."
 
 Meanwhile, three more officers of  's Brady House branch in Mumbai, where the Rs 11,300 crore fraud was allegedly pulled off, including Bechhu Tiwari (chief manager, in charge of forex department), Yashwant Joshi (Scale II manager of forex department) and Praful Sawant (Scale I officer, export) were arrested on Monday evening.
 
 Tiwari and Joshi were responsible for supervising the work of retired deputy manager  , also under arrest, and his manager to ensure that entries of authorised SWIFT messages from the core banking system (CBS) were checked properly. Both had full knowledge of Shetty's illegal activities, CBI sources said. Sawant's job was to check SWIFT messages daily and report the same to the senior management.
 
 After arresting them, CBI teams searched their houses in Navi Mumbai and Mumbai, besides Nirav group's offices at Peninsula Business Park, Lower Parel. The agency questioned 13 PNB officers on Monday.
 
 Speaking to TOI over the phone from Dubai, Nirav's counsel Vijay Aggarwal confirmed company executives being summoned by the CBI. On CBI and ED action against the billionaire diamond trader, Aggarwal, who is in Dubai to prepare Nirav's defence, said, "We are aware of the developments. We will respond to the allegations once the CBI and the ED file their chargesheet and complaint."
 
 Asked if he was in touch with Nirav and knew about his location, Aggarwal refused to comment. He had earlier defended top corporate executives in the 2G spectrum scam, including Shahid Balwa.
 
 
