NEW DELHI: The 3rd edition of the unique Anantapur International Relay Ultramarathon (AIRUM) saw participation from 76 runners including 52 Spanish and 24 Indians. The event was flagged-off on 23rd January 2018 with an objective to raise funds for building 36 houses for poor families, water tanks, roads and electrification in the village of Yerragunta (Parigi mandal) in Anantapur. 

 
 The race, organised by the Rural Development Trust (RDT), began on 23rd January at 5 pm from Yerragunta with the participants following a 170 km running track which saw them passing through various villages across the city before finishing at Father Vicente Ferrer’s Samadhi on 24th January at 1 pm. 
 
 The present edition of the ultramarathon came into vision in 2016, when ultra-runner Juan Manuel Viera from Spain ran 140 km with a motto of ‘1 km 1 Life’. Following the success of the inaugural event, it drew an increased participation with 40 more runners taking part in the 2nd edition.
 
 For the first time seven female hockey players were selected from   to participate in the run along with their coach. They trained together for a month while working on improving their endurance as well as breaking the prevailing gender stereotypes by participating in this event. “I am happy to participate in the event and contribute to my community, next year I will try my best to run even longer distance”, says Sandhya, the hockey player from ASA who ran 20km along with her friends.
 
 The running track was a tough one and included uneven roads, no lights and tough weather conditions. The 76 participants were divided into teams of four and each team ran in the relay marathon in a non-competitive manner. Seeing the runners’ enthusiasm and commitment of bringing a change in the lives of rural villages, villagers welcomed the runners with drums to motivate them at each ‘Transition Point’ where the baton exchange happened. 
 
 Apart from the ultramarathon, a Community Running Day was also organised to bring awareness and promote physical fitness among the youth at Anantapur Sports Village on 21st January. More than 100 girls and boys enrolled in RDT Inclusive School for differently-abled also took part in the run.
 
