AHMEDABAD: Kamesh Shah, 57, a resident of Naranpura, received a call on May 9. The caller identified himself as a bank official and informed Shah that he had to verify his debit card details. As the caller named his bank, Shah believed him and provided the details. When asked for the one-time password (OTP), Shah provided that as well. Soon thereafter, Rs 42,989 was withdrawn from Shah’s account. Shah has registered a complaint of cheating and breach of trust with the   police.

 
 
  
 
 Shah’s case is just one of the 120-odd cases registered by the city police this year of debit card fraud. Majority of the cases have occurred between September 2016 and February 2017. A number of these complaints are now being investigated by the local police after the applications were transferred from the city police’s  .
  
  
 City police officials said that they get about 10 applications per day related to cyber crimes and a major chunk relates to debit or credit card frauds. Majority of the victims are above 55 years old. Officials said that debit and credit card frauds have spiked after demonetization as the fraudsters are calling account holders to ‘verify’ their card and account details. The ‘verification’ is done through the OTP. Once the fraudsters get the details, the transfers take place — mostly online — from one account to another.
 
 A major problem in investigation is the sheer number of cases to be handled. A senior police official, on the condition of anonymity, said that to address the huge backlog of applications related to cyber crimes that runs into thousands of cases, all have been transferred to the local police stations which might or might not have the required expertise. To aid the local cops, the cyber cell conducted a two-day training workshop and provided the tools for gathering data and conducting investigations. 
 
 “We have a database of about 3,000 numbers which have been used by fraudsters. Over 1,000 bank accounts are also being scrutinized for fraudulent transactions,” said the official. “Thus, as time is lost, the chance of a case being solved diminishes.” The biggest challenge lies in the inter-state nature of the crimes, the official said. “The criminals have evolved with time,” he said. “As is seen in a number of recent cases, the money transferred from the victims’ accounts are deposited in mobile wallets to avoiding leaving a further money trail.”
 
