NEW DELHI: The drive by   to   in   in south Delhi and to clear it of   is good news for the  , a tongue of which forms part of the two villages. But while the anti-encroachment campaign will spread to 18 other villages, environmentalists feel years of illegal occupation might already have damaged the southernmost tip of the city’s green lung in several ways — from affecting wildlife to reducing the watershed and killing native Aravalli flora.

 
 The southern ridge sprawls across 6,200 hectares and could be facing the most damage among the Ridge sections in terms of illegal constructions, say experts. Forest officials that TOI spoke to said almost 15% of the area is under dispute, though the full extent of occupation will be established only when the land demarcation is completed. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The   wants the southern ridge’s spread to be determined by June 30.
 
 “Just the periphery areas might have been encroached upon, but even this has impacted the wildlife,” said a forest official. “Any sort of biotic interference will impact the Ridge, and the houses built there have not followed norms like proper sewerage. Once the demarcation is over, we will start the revival of the forests by carrying out large-scale plantations.”
 
 Experts, however, aren’t too happy about the current scenario. “Most of the farmhouses there have cattle, whose unchecked grazing has resulted in certain species vanishing from the southern ridge. The groundwater level has also been affected,” said C R Babu, professor emeritus and head of the Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems. “If certain plant species vanish, it will change the entire food chain, affecting both herbivores and carnivores. You cannot find jackals in a number of places in the southern ridge any longer.”
 
 Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist-in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, echoed Babu and said the Ridge needed to be notified at the earliest to prevent further deterioration. “The built-up areas of the houses and encroachment reduce the watershed regime. This ultimately harms the microbial processes in the Ridge areas. In turn, this affects the ecosystem of the region and its impact on both flora and fauna can be seen,” said Khudsar.
 
 According to officials, the demarcation will see geo-coordinates being mapped so that illegal occupation of forest land can be easily foiled in future. The forest department has also warned its guards against condoning any new encroachment. “Forest guards will be suspended if an encroachment is allowed to exist unchallenged for more than seven days. Guards have been asked to make daily rounds and any structure being constructed will be brought down immediately,” said a forest official.
 
 
