RAJKOT: As many as 355 farmers including 138 women and 217 men were arrested late on Sunday night in connection with violence that erupted after police lobbed 62 teargas shells to disperse farmers from 12 villages, who were opposing construction of lignite-based power plant of Gujarat Power Corporation Ltd ( ). 

 More than 500 persons were booked at Vartej police station of Bhavnagar taluka for rioting and obstructing government officials from performing duty.
 
 On Sunday morning, nearly 700 people from dozen villages of Ghogha and Bhavnagar talukas took out a rally on 15 tractors and 100 bikes from   village to Badi and Padva villages where the power plant is coming up. The farmers, who had earlier opposed the GPCL move to take possession of their land, had planned to storm the construction site located between Badi and Padva villages. However, the situation turned explosive when they tried to barge into the construction site to stop the work.
 
 Police had to resort to baton-charging and lob over 60 teargas shells to disperse the crowd.
 
 Late on Sunday evening, SM Rana, sub-inspector at Gogha police station lodged an FIR against 500 persons under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) including 147 (rioting), 143 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others).
 
 According to Vartej police sub-inspector RP Chudasama, who is investigating the case, all those arrested were lodged at Vartej police station during the night and were supposed to be released on bail on Monday morning.
 
 “However, all the accused refused to take bail and demanded back their land. It was only after local leaders and politicians intervened, the farmers agreed to take bail and were released at around 4pm on Monday,” said Chudasama.
 
 GPCL has acquired 1,415 hectares of government and private land in three mining blocks — Ghogha-Surka, Khadsaliya-I and Khadsaliya-II, of the total 2,980 ha required for its 500MW (2 X 250 MW) lignite-based power plant between 1997 and 2005. The company plans to acquire the remaining 1,565 ha in phases once the power plant, which is to be set up by GPCL subsidiary Bhavnagar Electric Company Ltd ( ), is fully commissioned.
 
 
