JAIPUR: The   sweep in Rajasthan bypolls is bound to strengthen PCC chief   who has been facing competition from former chief minister   and AICC general secretary C P Joshi over the state leadership.

 Though Joshi has largely stayed away from the state politics for past several years, since the recent Gujarat elections, Gehlot supporters’ chorus has been growing louder with the demand that the latter be declared Congress’ CM candidate as was done in Punjab. The bypoll results, however, would make it difficult for the Gehlot camp to counter Pilot’s leadership in Rajasthan.
 
 If Gehlot is credited for taking Congress closer to victory in Gujarat, Pilot has ensured actual triumph for the party in Rajasthan. The party’s success in the state under Pilot has been continuous, right from the panchayat and municipal areas to parliamentary constituencies. Last year, the party swept Zila Parishad bypolls in Banswara, Bhilwara, Jalore and Karauli districts, besides leading over BJP in the panchayat samiti bypolls in 19 districts.
 
 “Be it the bypolls for four assembly seats in 2014, the Dholpur assembly bypoll last year or the three bypolls now, Pilot has toiled hard campaigning with the party candidates in the field. Unlike some senior leaders who participate in just the road shows on the last day, he walks with the candidates deep into the rural areas every single day,” said a PCC office-bearer.
 
 The Ajmer   bypoll was more like a direct contest between Pilot and chief minister  , who not only spent majority of her campaigning time in the constituency but also stationed her best and trusted ministers there. Moreover, Raje had accorded ministerial status to BJP MLAs/leaders in almost every assembly segment of the constituency. Still, Congress secured more than 50% of the votes polled in Ajmer Lok Sabha where Pilot led the party campaign.
 
 Commenting on the bypoll results, Pilot said, “Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi gave me the responsibility to revive the party in the state and that is what I have tried to do.” At a press conference in Jaipur, he credited Gehlot, Joshi and Congress’ Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande for the party’s success. “Rahul ji’s leadership has shown us the way,” Pilot said.
 
 
