MADURAI: The district administration is committed to propagating the cultivation of millets as they are healthy as well as tasty, said Madurai collector K Veera Raghava Rao at the training programme organised on barnyard millet cultivation by the   (TNAU). Member of the Tamil Nadu Planning committee,   inaugurated it. The collector added that people continue to consume rice because they lack awareness about millets and their benefits.

 Madurai leads in barnyard millet (Kudiraivali) cultivation and more farmers are showing interest in taking up the cultivation which brings them good results, as they have learnt the art of branding and processing their products.
 
 Professor and head of plant breeding and genetics, Tamil Nadu Agriculture College, Madurai, Dr C Vanniarajan said that the training program was conducted under the   (TANII) scheme. Last year, they had released the Madurai 1 (MDU1) barnyard millet variety, which was introduced to as many as 125 small farmers, who cultivated the seeds on an acre each. 
 
 Barnyard millet is a highly drought resistant 90-day-old crop, which can thrive in well irrigated conditions also. The farmers in   block who cultivated the high yielding seeds last year have already harvested the crop and seen good returns have taken up the next phase of cultivation, motivated by the yield.
 
 Under the TANII, farmers are given two training programs and field visits per year and are advised to process and brand their products, instead of selling them right after harvesting. “Selling millet as soon as it is harvested will bring them about Rs 18 to Rs 20 per kilogram, value addition and processing could help them to fetch Rs 80 to Rs 100 for the same product,” Vanniarajan said.
 
 This millet had slowly lost its place in the diets of Indians because of the husk or the outer covering of the millet cannot be completely removed and gives a slightly bitter taste. Under this scheme, special millet processing units are installed which help the farmers to polish it almost as well as rice, he said.
 
 As it is rich in iron and has a lower glycemic index of 41 % against 51 % in rice, it suitable for women, especially those who are anaemic and also diabetic patients. He said at present, many people were trying to give value addition to the millet in the form of cookies, but it can be used to make curd rice and also replace rice in idlies and become a part of our daily diet, he said. 
 
 The seeds can be stored up to 10 years and Thirumangalam farmers have seen a yield of 500 to 600 kilograms per acre and now the farmers of   are to be sensitised on the cultivation of barnyard millet, he added.
 
 
