GURUGRAM: More than 300   in Sushant Lok-III have illegally built swimming pools in violation of the approved building plan, according to a complaint filed on the CM Window. These swimming pools, the complainant alleged, were being filled with groundwater.

 It has been further alleged that several officials of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) are hand in glove with the developer. Also, the complainant said the DTCP issued occupation certificate (OC) to these villas, ignoring the violation of building norms.
 
 The OC — TOI has a copy— issued by the DTCP in 2007 does not mention swimming pools in these villas. 
 
 The certificate was granted by the town planner on the condition that it would stand automatically cancelled if any changes were made in the building. The certificate is also liable to be cancelled if one builds additional floors or makes alterations in the building without the competent authority’s approval
 
 Rajendra Goel, a resident of Sushant Lok-III, who filed the complaint on the CM Window, claimed that during the launch of villas, the developer had given advertisements in newspapers showing swimming pools. “Through a right to information (RTI) plea, we got to know that there was no swimming pool in the building plans of these villas,” Goel said, adding that more than 300 villas, in which the developer had illegally constructed swimming pools, were sold for premium prices.
 
 He alleged that villas had not been constructed as per the approved plan. “Still, the developer sold these villas. Now the owners will have to bear the burnt, if the authorities initiate action against villas in future,” said Goel.
 
 TOI tried to contact Ansal Buildwell, who developed Sushant Lok-III. Despite repeated attempts, the developer didn’t respond to e-mails, text messages and phone calls.
 
 The complainant also accused the DTCP of issuing the OC even after the developer’s advertisements revealed that these villas have swimming pools, which is in violation of norms. “The state government should take action against the developer, and the officials who had handed out the OC,” Goel said.
 
 The complainant’s counsel Yatish Goel said, “DTCP should conduct an inspection in these villas and put violations on record. These swimming pools are draining groundwater.”
 
 He said the Central Ground Water Authority ( ) had declared Gurugram as a “dark zone”, due to depleting groundwater level, and banned its exploitation in 2011. “The colony was developed around 10 years ago. All the colonies in the neighbourhood are availing of   water, but till now around 3,000 homes in Sushant Lok are drawing groundwater from 10 tubewells,” Goel said, adding that during summer thousands of litres of water is consumed by each of these swimming pools. He also claimed that the colony is entirely dependent on groundwater.
 
 Enquired about the violations, district town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T   said the department had received the complaint through CM window, and assured that it would investigate the matter. “The OC was issued by planning wing of the department,” Sharma said. 
 
 
