AMRITSAR:  , a 24-year-old man who had gone to Pakistan for a 10-day pilgrimage as part of 1,700-member jatha on April 12 has gone "missing." 

 Amarjit's disappearance comes days after Kiran Bala, a Sikh woman from Punjab's   district who was part of the same pilgrimage group created controversy after revealing that she had converted to Islam and married a Lahore-based Pakistani man.
  
 Amarjit did not return to India with the rest of the jatha on Saturday and his visa, which was just issued by Pakistan for the 10-day pilgrimage, has expired.
 
 Sources said   has been missing since April 15 and had left his passport in Nankana Sahib. However, they have no indication whether his disappearance had any link with a   organization or was due to some romantic angle.
 
 
 
 
 Amarjit’s younger brother Prabhjot Singh told TOI on Saturday that his brother had gone alone to Pakistan with the jatha. He said their family was surprised not to find him at the Attari railway station with the rest of the jatha members on Saturday. “We all are surprised and worried,” he said.
 
 The family has not informed the SGPC and the police that Amarjit had not returned with the jatha.
 
 Amarjit, a resident of Naranjanpur village near Amritsar, had earlier worked in Malaysia, but had been living at home and helping his family’s agriculture business for the last couple of months. His younger brother said Amarjit was also trying to find work in another country.
 
 “He told us that before he gets a visa for some other country, he wanted to go to Gurdwara Nankana Sahib to pay obeisance,” Prabhjot said.
 
 “Usnae sanu jaan tu pehlae eih kaha ki uh Babaji dae gurdwara, Nankana Sahib vich matha taek kay wapis aa javega (Before going, he told us that he will return after paying obeisance at Gurdwara Nankana Sahib),” revealed Prabhjot.
 
 He also revealed that Amarjit did not call home from Pakistan during these 10 days. “We tried to call him, but there was no Internet connectivity on his phone,” he said.
 
 Despite several attempts, SGPC jatha leader Gurmeet Singh Buh could not be contacted for his version.
 
 However, Nankana Sahib Sikh Yatree Jatha president Swaran Singh Gill, who also returned from Pakistan on Saturday along with the jatha, said: “I saw Amarjit Singh at Nankana Sahib, his activities appeared to be suspicious, but I didn’t think that he would stay back in Pakistan.”
 
 Amarjit’s family had not filed a police complaint till the time of filing of this story.
 
 
