BENGALURU: A city sessions court on Friday denied bail to   and his six associates, considering the nature of injuries suffered by the victim whom they targeted at a restaurant in   on February 17. 

 Parameshwara Prasanna B, judge of the 63th city civil and sessions court, said in an order: "Considering the nature of accusations against the petitioner, the evidence, injuries sustained by the victim, pendency of further investigation, reasonable apprehension of witnesses being influenced and larger interest of the public and state, I am of the opinion that the petitioner is not entitled to bail, at least till the probe is over."
 
 After verifying   footages, the court felt that grounds like names of suspects not figuring in the FIR or complaint are not enough for granting of bail. "The complainant is not expected to discuss details of the incident in his report. Absence of such details is not significant. The FIR is not meant to be encyclopaedic. While considering the effect of some omissions, the court is required to take into account the probable, physical and mental condition of the informant," the judge said.
 
  The judge said the counter-case filed against the victim, Vidvat L, by the second accused, Arun Babu, was done to hamper the probe. "In his counter-complaint, Babu alleged that Vidvat was assaulted at 12am, and was in an inebriated condition. But medical records show the victim was undergoing treatment at 12am in the hospital and was not drunk. The above aspect and copies of the CD furnished by the investigating officer prima facie show that the counter-complaint was filed to hinder the probe," the court said. 
 
 The court said in case bail is granted to the petitioners, chances of them threatening prosecution witnesses, absconding and committing similar offences couldn't be ruled out. "The victim has not yet been discharged from the hospital, his statement has not yet been recorded and investigation is in a preliminary stage. The material on record shows the victim has been shifted from ICU to the ward. But this doesn't lower the gravity of his condition or the case," the court order said.
 
 Later, Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) M S   said the court considered the health condition of Vidvat and the influence Haris could wield while denying bail.
 
  "Vidvat's injuries are grievous. The accused admitted in their petitions about their presence at the scene of crime and the court considered their status, background and behaviour. The court rejected the bail pleas as it considered the accused could influence the witnesses, investigation and victim," Sundar said. 
 
 
  "We will move the high court for bail soon," senior counsel  , who argued for Mohammed Nalapad Haris, said on Friday. S Balan, representing the the six associates of Haris, said he will approach HC seeking interim bail of his clients on Monday. 
 
