The latest episode of   starts with   talking to   about the event where he along with   got arrested. Soon, Aditya sees the entire video of their arrest and quickly notices that it was   who plotted things against them. Later Aditya tells Arjun to make sure that Zoya is out on bail as soon as possible. Arjun tells him that he can never understand Aditya's intentions against Zoya. 

 Arjun reaches the police station and submits the bail papers of Zoya and gets her out of jail. Soon, Zoya's younger sister   reaches Mumbai to meet her, she is informed by Yash's mother about her sister's arrest. Noor goes to meet Zoya at the police station and decides to take her father's help but doesn't call him. By the time she sees that her sister is already out on bail. Zoya is surprised to see Noor in Mumbai. Noor thinks Aditya was the one behind all the mishaps. Zoya gets Noor home and Yash's mother is upset about it. She taunts Zoya for being the cause of all the problems. Mahi tries to calm her mother and hatred increases between Noor and Mahi. 
 
 Noor plans to take revenge from Aditya and Zoya says that she wants to make Aditya believe that his deceased wife Pooja only loved him and not her (Zoya) husband Yash. Later, Harshvardhan Hooda asks his lawyer to remove Aditya from being his authorized signatory and also to remove his name from all the properties and assets of the Hooda industries. Harshvardhan Hooda is worried thinking that Aditya will destroy everything. Mr Hooda gets a call from the lawyer, who enquires about the diary. Later, Zoya calls Ashish who promises to meet her in two days.
 
 On the other side, Zoya asks the police to investigate so that they can catch hold of the real culprit. She warns Aditya to confess his crime of planning things against her. Aditya starts taunting her and asks her if she is the only one behind him? Soon, Mahi creates a drama and tries to extract some information from the cops.
 
 At the police station, Mahi is surprised to find an old photograph of Yash and Aditya at a wedding, she takes a picture of the photo on her mobile and decides to use it for her own benefit later. In another scene, there is a curfew in the city and everyone in the office leaves while Zoya stays back in the office. On the other hand, Aditya is drunk and walks aimlessly on the road.
 
 
