Anindita.Acharya@timesgroup.com

 Chandigarh: She wove visions of exotic locations, dream destinations and happy memories for people - even as her own life felt like a difficult juggling act. A single parent and entrepreneur, Sushma Paul remembers sleepless nights followed by bleary-eyed mornings sustained by a steely determination - a determination born of the survival instinct. With her one year old daughter on her lap, she would create travel itineraries for clients sitting at her Mumbai home. That was in 2011. 
 
 After seven years, today, the mompreneur runs a travel firm, Holiday Cellar, in Panchkula. That does not mean the juggler does not slip up once in a while. “I have a child to look after. At times, it is difficult to maintain work-life balance. I lost many bookings because of this,” Sushma said.
 
 On the face of it, it seems both men and women have a level playing field as far as professional aspirations are concerned. This could not be further from the truth. Women run the professional race weighed down by multiple responsibilities and prejudices. 
 
 Take the case of Priya Malik, founder of Finesse, a digital marketing company she opened in 2012 at the age of 22. The first challenge she faced was the struggle to be taken seriously. 
 
 “When I met clients in Yamunanagar, they thought I was not serious about my work. But we women have the knack of doing things right. So, even if we are pushed and not trusted, we put our best foot forward,” said Priya.
 
 Panchkula-based Sunali Aggarwal, co-founder of Trabug, which provides mobile phones and guide for international travellers in India, has worked with over 100 companies, mostly start-ups, in 13 years of her career. But she says it wasn’t an easy task to ‘fit into’ the male-dominated business world. “You will be continuously undermined and will have to deal with the delicate male ego. At times, you need to make more efforts to prove your point even to your business partners,” said Sunali, who also co-founded Mobikwik.com in 2009. 
 
 Though Sunali says the business ecosystem has evolved and anyone with a great idea has a chance, she doesn’t deny the fact that a woman has to work doubly hard to prove her entrepreneurial aptitude. According to Sunali, a few lucky woman founders find family support. But she is not yet ready to get married. Will marriage affect the way she runs her business, we ask? “I don’t know. But we have seen how married women have to compromise on most occasions,” she said.
 
 According to a report in 2017 on ‘Startup India- Momentous rise of the Indian Startup ecosystem’ presented by Nasscom along with Zinnov, only 9 % of Indian founders or co-founders are women.
 
 Panchkula-based Abha Mahajan, who co-founded The Pipal (which makes personalised baby products) with her husband in 2009, admits the figure is not encouraging. Just like Sunali, Abha too agrees that if a woman entrepreneur finds a solid support system (be it family, in-laws or mentors) then a number of women can carve a niche in the business world. “If a married woman has a supportive spouse, she can fight social norms and take risks too,” said Abha, who put her own money into the business.
 
 Besides personal struggle, a lot of women start-up founders also face problems when it comes to raising capital. “Some people judge you differently and don’t take you seriously in the pitching process. But the moment an investor knows you are talking business, then you have hit the right spot. Women are taking charge in the business world but we have a long way to go,” said Sushma.
 
 Alok Ramsisaria, CEO of Grazitti Interactive and president of TiE-Chandigarh, said there are umpteen examples in Chandigarh where a woman has started a business and the husband has later joined her. Ramsisaria has got crèche facilities in his office. He also said that women are better in the business world because they are multi-taskers.
 
 
