SHIMLA: Grand old monk of booze and Padma Shri recipient, Brig Dr Kapil Mohan (retd), died at the age of 90 at a hospital in  , Uttar Pradesh, on Saturday. He was not only credited with introducing popular liquor brands like ‘Old Monk’ rum and ‘Solan No 1’ malt whisky, but was the man who turned around the fortunes of the brewery, Mohan Meakin Limited, by diversifying.

 Mohan became the chairman and MD of Mohan Meakin Limited in 1973. The company’s foundation dates back to 1855 when Edward Dyer, India’s brewing pioneer, established a brewery at Kasauli to bring modern beer to India. Today, the company has dealings in about 20 countries.
 
 Mohan had a strong connection with  , especially with Kasauli and Solan. He had remained chairman of Solan Municipal Council and played a key role in developing the picturesque hill town. Known for taking up social causes, he had also established ‘Mohan Shakti’ heritage park at Hart village some 12 km from Solan with the objective of boosting Vedic science. Foundation stone of this heritage park was laid by the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.
 
 “In 1949, N N Mohan took the reins of company and set up a big industrial hub near Ghaziabad, known as Mohan Nagar, by establishing various manufacturing units, including a brewery, distillery, malt houses, glass manufacturing, fruit products and juices, malt extract factories and cold storage facilities. He also set up Mohan Engineering Works and there has been no looking back since then,” says the information available on the company’s official website.
 
 It further says that challenges of present were ably met by Kapil Mohan as under his stewardship, the group rechristened as Mohan Meakin Limited, undertook major diversification with 3 distilleries in India and 2 breweries and a host of franchises. “A multi-faceted business house with a turnover exceeding Rs 400 crore, Mohan Meakin stands for growth, innovation and care,” it adds.
 
 Senior   leader and former chief minister   was a close friend of Kapil Mohan. “With his demise I have lost a true friend and a well wisher. His contribution to the industrial development of Himachal Pradesh was exemplary,” said Virbhadra.
 
 
