CHANDIGARH: The   government is soon going to ensure more independence to the anti-drug special task force ( ) by granting more powers to its head ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu. Also, after the Punjab police DGP (HRD)   levelled serious allegations of harassment against his two senior DGPs last week, denting the state police as well as   government’s image, chief minister Amarinder Singh has called a meeting of all DGP and ADGP-rank officers on Wednesday.

 A senior government functionary said that the state government had already relieved Sidhu of the additional charge of ADGP, border, last Saturday so that he could focus more on the anti-drug drive. “The STF is being restructured and will soon come as an independent and autonomous vertical,” confirmed the officer. The state government is working out the modalities in this regard and the STF will be provided a dedicated work force from the state police.
 
 In its anti-drug drive, the STF had registered 13,892 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act between March 2017 and 2018, arrested 15,835 persons with a rseizure of Rs 1.86 crore and 3,550 pounds as drug money. At the same time, the STF had recovered 303 kg heroin, 13 kg smack, 96 kg charas, 956 opium, 44,312 kg poppy husk and 4 kg methamphetamine (ice).
 
 After   had submitted before the Punjab and Haryana high court that he was being allegedly harassed by state DGP Suresh Arora and DGP (intelligence) Dinkar Gupta in the Inderpreet Singh Chadha suicide case, the chief minister on Saturday took serious note of the media reports of dissension in Punjab police top brass. He made it clear that he would not hesitate in taking stern action, if needed, to check indiscipline in police force. The chief minister had directed home secretary N S Kalsi, DGP Suresh Arora and chief principal secretary to the CM Suresh Kumar to examine the matter and suggest suitable action.
 
 Kalsi and Kumar would also remain present in Wednesday’s meeting apart from Punjab police’s 11 DGP-rank officers and 20 ADGP-rank officers at the Punjab civil secretariat. A senior minister of the state government, not wanting to be named, said, “As the senior Punjab police officers started washing off their linen in public, it has brought bad name not only to the police force, but also to the state government.” Chattopadhyaya had also informed the high court that DGP (intelligence) Dinkar Gupta allegedly had benami house in Sector 15 of Chandigarh.
 
 
