CHENNAI: With opposition parties bracing for agitation across the state against the government’s revision of  , chief minister Edappadi K   on Saturday said that the move was inevitable given the severe loss suffered by the state transport corporations.

 At least 65% of the 22,000 buses operated in rural areas have suffered losses and the state had also faced the wrath of the transport unions recently for not paying up the statutory pending dues for the retired and serving staff.
 
 Palaniswami took the podium at MGR’s 101st birth anniversary event in T Nagar to drive home the point that the government was left with no choice. “The state has revised the fare with anguish. The diesel price rose up to 50% high in the last seven years (since the last revision). Only when the losses are set right, good service can be offered and new buses can be bought,” he said, requesting people to cooperate. While   and Kerala fares for ordinary/mofussil have been 63.7p/km and 64p/km, respectively, since 2015,   collected only 42p/km despite a loss of Rs 9 crore a day. The Friday hike took the fare to 60p/km.
 
 With scarcity of sand hitting the construction industry extensively for several months now, the CM, who also holds the portfolio of PWD, took time off to assure that his government would soon move the   with an appeal. A division bench of the   on Friday dismissed an appeal by the state and refused to lift ban order on sand quarrying. “The imported sand cost is much higher than the locally available sand. Chennai alone requires 6,000 loads of sand a day, but the three ports, Chennai, Kattupalli and Ennore could handle only 1,000 loads. We are taking all possible steps to make sand available,” the CM said.
 
 While opposition is strident in its criticism on the “ineffectiveness of government”, Palaniswami said his dispensation had launched and laid the foundation stone for 44,586 schemes worth Rs 22,562 crore in the last 11 months. “Many talk about political plunge. Have they ever helped people in distress? No. They are only day-dreaming. Hearts of people can be won only through service. Anyone can float a party, but people have to accept them,” he said, without taking names.
 
 
