NEW DELHI: Police in north-east Delhi recently sealed the windows of a few houses in the area. Youngsters from the neighbourhood milled around these windows, knocked on them and then stretched their hands into and quickly out of the windows. The cops had discovered that unscrupulous people had adopted the bizarre modus operandi of peddling   and   liquor from these windows.

 Ravindra Yadav, joint commissioner (Eastern Range), said a crackdown was ordered and around 55 people were arrested recently from just one neighbourhood — 30 from a single house. Special teams led by assistant CP Subodh Goswami helped wind up this syndicate, which sold narcotics such as smack, crack and ganja as well as alcohol to school children and college students.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “Raids were carried out in neighbourhoods in places like Nand Nagri and Babarpur after a week-long reconnaissance,” Yadav said. “The ACP patrolled the areas with beat officers and kept an eye on suspicious activities near these houses after 8pm.” It wasn’t easy because the business moved every day to a new house to avoid detection. 
 
 When TOI visited one of these windowed dens at B3 Block of Nand Nagri on Wednesday, locals disclosed that the transactions began soon after dusk. The seller took up position behind a curtained window with a small hatch. The buyer knocked on the window, proffered a Rs 100 or Rs 500 note, accepted his goods and left — all without a word being exchanged. These specially modified windows helped the sellers keep their identity secret from their buyers.
 
 Some people, usually a pan-shop owner, acted as contacts, according to Ajit Singla, DCP (North-east). The contact often deputed a teenager to show the potential buyer the way to that day’s window. “On the way, the youth would establish the identity and credentials of the buyer, only after which would he disclose the location of the window,” revealed Singla. Ashok and Raju, who were arrested last week, told the cops that each night’s taking amounted to around Rs 4,000.
 
 One of the contacts, barely 20 years old, said, “We get 50-60 customers each day. Our goods are supplied from Haryana.” Buyers come from as afield as Loni and Ghaziabad and from areas where the government authorised liquor vends shut early.
 
 The sellers changed their location every day and used codes to identify themselves. They also hired small storehouses to stock the drugs or liquor. A raid at a house, thus, hardly yielded big recoveries. A police officer said that even if caught and booked under the Excise or Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, they used their networks to secure bail.
 
 Locals claimed three-four families have been running this business for years. “Often, they lease the window and a room for each day’s operation to avoid police scrutiny,” said a rickshaw puller who claimed to know of the business, adding that the big players were from Trilokpuri and Ghazipur.
 
 
