AHMEDABAD: The   officials got a big relief in the 2004 Ishrat   encounter case, as a special   sessions court here on Saturday quashed the magisterial court’s decision to issue summons to four officers including former special director Rajinder Kumar.

 With quashing of the summons, the decision taken by the magistrate to take cognizance against Kumar and three of his subordinates – Rajeev Wankhede, T S Mittal and M K Sinha – has been set aside. They are now relieved with this because they were charged by the CBI in February 2014 in a supplementary chargesheet in the murder of the 19-year-old Mumbra girl along with   alias Pranesh Pillai, Jishan Zauhar and   in an encounter with the city crime branch sleuths in the outskirts of Ahmedabad on June 15, 2004. They were dubbed as Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives who were on a mission to kill the then chief minister Narendra Modi.
 
 Two of the four IB officials, Wankhede and Mittal, had challenged summons in December last year before the sessions court. The CBI court had not taken cognizance of the chargesheet for nearly four years because CBI was waiting for prosecution sanction under provisions of section 197 of the CrPC. According to CBI counsel R C Kodekar, special CBI judge J K Pandya has quashed the summons against the IB officials primarily on the ground that the Centre has refused the probe agency a sanction to criminally prosecute the four officers. The court was of the opinion that the court cannot take cognizance of the chargesheet and issue summons in absence of the prosecution sanction, which is mandatory to prosecute a government employee.
 
 Besides, the court has also observed that the supplementary chargesheet did not hold the IB officials accused of criminal conspiracy and murder.
 
 Advocate Kodekar said that CBI did not agree with the reasons on the ground that specific charge against an offender is finalized at the time of framing of charges by the court. In a criminal case, cognizance is taken for the offence and not against the offenders. “Once cognizance is taken of the offence, issuance of summons is to be followed. The court has not accepted our arguments, but we will give our opinion and the CBI officers will take a decision on whether to challenge the court’s order or not,” the CBI counsel said.
 
 Apart from the four IB officials, CBI had charge-sheeted seven Gujarat police officials in this case. Former DGP P P Pandey has been discharged from the court by this sessions court. Following this, two other accused cops, D G Vanzara and N K Amin, have also approached the court for a discharge from the case.
 
 
