PUNE: Determined to prevent deadly fire mishaps in restaurants, the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( ) has decided to ban rooftop restaurants in its jurisdiction.

 The Pune metropolitan region, which coveres nearly 7,536 sqkm — excluding the municipal corporation, council and cantonment limits — will not have any rooftop restaurants, said an order issued by  , the PMRDA commissioner. Having learnt a lesson from the   fire, in which 14 persons died, the PMRDA will ensure that its building permission department doesn’t give sanctions to such restaurants. The development control rules, which will be formulated for the PMR region as well, will take a special note of this.
 
 “In the PMR region, we have not given any permission for rooftop restaurants, and we will not be entertaining any requests for the same. PMRDA has more than 20 townships, and the building permission department has been instructed to not issue permission for rooftop restaurants,” said Gitte.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The PMRDA is strict about not incentivizing “floor space index (FSI) on upward movement” — ie use of rooftops and terraces for any other use — in the building permissions. This is because it does not require such a provision as there is no dearth of land in PMRDA. “We have enough space to expand on the ground. Therefore, we have had no such requirement. Even in future, we will not be considering such a move,” said Gitte.
 
 PMR planner Vivek   said that in case of all restaurant permissions, officials would ensure that combustible material is not used. He pointed out that the basic floor space index in the PMR region ranges from 1 to 1.2 FSI. It is enhanced depending on the use and this step is discretionary.
 
 In addition to the order denying permissions to rooftop restaurants, the PMR officials have floated a tender for a fire station at  , dedicated to the PMR region. They have also put forth a proposal to the state government to jointly operate fire stations at the main townships. “We are waiting for a response from the government. The joint operations will lead to better checks. Even after the permissions are granted, there will be periodic checks for NOCs,” said Kharwadkar.
 
 Activists have been writing to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis complaining that the terraces of several buildings are being illegally used to serve food and liquor. Permissions for such activities are not only illegal, but they can also affect the health, fire and structural safety of people and buildings.
 
 The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had permitted the use of open terraces in commercial mall buildings as a service area, with no objection certificates (NOCs) from the chief fire officer. After the Kamala Mills fire, the BMC faced severe criticism. The PMRDA does not want to repeat the same mistakes, and has, therefore, taken these precautionary steps.
 
