GURUGRAM: An ex-serviceman, who had objected to a few youths bursting   during   celebrations, was pulled out of his house in Khandsa village and beaten up along with his sons by a mob. The assault soon snowballed into a clash between two communities and the agitators hurled stones at houses in the neighbourhood.

 According to the complaint, Mahipal Singh (79), who was a subedar in the army, was in his house when people were playing Holi outside in the morning.
 
 Soon, a group of around 10-15 youths started bursting crackers and the loud noise disturbed residents in the vicinity. 
 
 Singh came out of the house and objected to the youths bursting the crackers. They apparently left the place, but promised to return. Around 4pm, around 30-40 people stood outside Singh’s house, armed with lathis and bricks in their hands.
 
 Singh said at least five men barged into his house and pulled him out to the streets. Seeing that their father was being beaten up, Singh’s sons Ramesh, Kailash and Sonu came to his rescue along with a few others. They, too, were beaten up. Singh and the others have been admitted to the government hospital in Sector 10.
 
  “They were assaulted with sticks, rods and glass bottles. One of them was badly injured as glass shards pierced his body. The group also hurled stones at other houses in the vicinity and the entire locality soon turned orange with broken bricks,” a villager said.
 
 According to sources, the protest took a more violent turn when it snowballed into a clash between the Rajputs and Dalits. The villagers alleged that a team from Sector 37 police station reached the spot almost two hours after they were informed.
 
 In his complaint, Singh has named Dhaula Raghab, Satpal Raghav, Mohit, Gala, Lovely, Bhola Sumit, Rehdi, Halan, Sanky and 20-25 others. Sources said they belonged to the Rajput community.
 
 Based on the complaint, an FIR has been registered under Sections 147 (rioting) 148 (rioting with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarly causing hurt), 324 (causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 452 (house trespass), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC along with relevant sections of the SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act.
 
 A police officer termed the incident “a mere fight”. Another officer involved in the probe, however, said the police were facing hurdles as most of the names mentioned in the complaint were nicknames. Dalit activists and leaders threatened on social media to intensify protests if the police failed to arrest the accused within a week.
 
 
