BENGALURU: Battery-operated rickshaws, mostly known as toto-rickshaws or e-rickshaws across the country, will soon hit Bengaluru roads.

 Allaying fears of traffic cops that these slow-moving vehicles would further reduce Bengaluru’s traffic speed, the transport department has given its green signal for these vehicles on grounds that they are eco-friendly.
 
 On the sidelines of a state government initiated e-mobility awareness campaign here on Tuesday, transport commissioner B   said: “At present, e-rickshaws are allowed in all districts of Karnataka except Bengaluru. Transport police had earlier expressed concern over allowing e-rickshaws in the city as the average speed of these vehicles isn’t over 25 kmph.”
 
 “Considering the state government’s e-mobility policy and also to reduce emission levels, we will soon notify rules to allow e-rickshaws in the city,” he said.
 
 At present, Bengaluru has 1.8 lakh autorickshaws. “Erickshaws in the city will have to follow auto fares as fixed by the government (Rs 25 for the first 1.9km and Rs 13 for every subsequent km). However, they won’t be allowed shared rides as stage carriage permit is BMTC’s exclusive right in the city,” said Dayananda.
 
 However, the department is yet to identify the routes where they can permit e-rickshaws. Traffic police had opposed e-rickshaws, fearing they could slow down traffic further on Bengaluru roads. However, the city’s average traffic speed is less than 10 kmph during peak hours. “The transport department has to take a decision on this issue. We will accept their decision,” additional commissioner of police (traffic) R Hithendra said.
 
 
 
 
 There are only 11,684 electric vehicles across the state, including 6,275 in Bengaluru, according to data with the transport department.
 
 Karnataka has 1.8 crore vehicles, of which 72.5 lakh are in Bengaluru alone. Of the 11,684 electric vehicles registered in the state, 7,185 are two-wheelers. This is followed by Light Motor Vehicle (4004) and Light Passenger Vehicle (360) and Light Goods Vehicle (135).
 
 In Bengaluru, of the 6,275 electric vehicles registered, 3,696 are LMVs, 2,160 twowheelers, 351 light passenger vehicles and 68 LGVs.
 
 Transport minister   said the government is committed to increasing the number of electric vehicles as “they’d reduce emission level and also prevent Delhi-like situation”.
 
