ALLAHABAD: The   on Monday granted one week’s time to   to comply with the court’s February 19 order to the   to find improved ways and means of providing   to the poor in   by opening   in every village where ready meals worth Rs. 1, Rs. 2 or Rs. 5 per person may be provided to check starvation.

 While fixing March 12 as the next date of hearing, Justice Sudhir Agarwal and Justice Shashi Kant, who were hearing a writ petition filed by Bundelkhand Uchcha Nyayalya Adhivakta, warned that if the aforesaid order is not complied with, the court would initiate contempt proceedings against the chief secretary. The petition had highlighted the pitiable living conditions of people in seven districts of Bundelkhand — Jhansi, Lalitpur, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Banda, Jalaun and Chitrakoot — for various reasons, including state government’s apathy over the last several decades.
 
 According to the petitioner, the said area is stony, lacks water and mostly depends on rains for drinking and irrigation purposes. Further, in the preceding five years there was continuous drought and it was declared as drought affected area.
 
 On Monday, as per the previous direction, chief secretary Rajiv Kumar filed an affidavit before the court.
 
 However, after going through the affidavit, the court expressed dissatisfaction and observed, “We find that nothing has been said in respect of proposed scheme and affidavit is silent on this aspect. Therefore, it is evident that the affidavit filed by the chief secretary is not in conformity with the directions given by this court which, prima facie, amounts to contempt of order dated 19.2.2018 passed by this court.”
 
 However, on a request made on behalf of the state counsel, the court deferred the issue of contempt notice against the chief secretary and granted one week’s further time to him to comply with the court’s February 19 order.
 
 In the February 19 order, the court had observed: “We find that for taking care of already well-to-do resourceful persons, governments have made provisions for subsidized food items at places, for example, as we are informed that recently one or two such food outlets have been started at Lucknow where a person can have full diet for a small sum of Rs. 5 or Rs.10, but this facility is available to urban people at Lucknow.
 
 “The condition of persons in Bundelkhand area, living mostly below poverty line and a small section above poverty line, not able to meet their two times meal, is worse and they need some source of sustenance.”
 
 
