PATNA: Chief minister (CM)   on Monday expressed grief over the alleged suicide committed by a   farmer and asked the principal secretaries of agriculture and disaster management departments to take “prompt action” in the matter.

 Dashrath Bind (55), a farmer of Bind Toli village under Krishnagarh police station area in Bhojpur district, hanged himself from the branches of a mango tree in an orchard near Milki village under Sinha police outpost in the district on Sunday morning.
 
 SHO of Sinha police outpost Arbind Kumar Singh said Dashrath was upset over damages caused to his mango crops due to unseasonal rain and hailstorm. “He had taken five mango orchards on lease this year, expecting a high yield, and paid Rs 2 lakh to the orchard owners,” the SHO added.
 
 Around three weeks ago, a farmer in Sheohar district had committed suicide due to failure of his maize crops. 
 
 “Following the CM’s instructions, Bhojpur DM Sanjeev Kumar on Monday constituted a team of officials headed by deputy development commissioner Shashank Shubhankar to look into the matter. The team has been asked to visit the deceased farmer’s village and conduct a thorough investigation. Based on the findings of the team, necessary assistance will be provided to the farmer’s family under the   Distressed Farmer Assistance Scheme-2015,” an official of chief minister’s office said.
 
 Earlier on March 14, a 55-year-old farmer, Narad Rai, had committed suicide by consuming pesticide at his agriculture field in Sheohar district. His family members had said Narad was under stress as he was finding it difficult to pay back loans after his maize plants did not yield grains.
 
 Though Sheohar district administration had attributed Narad’s suicide to a family dispute, the MLAs of opposition   and CPI-ML created ruckus in the state assembly on March 19, demanding adequate compensation to the next of the kin of the deceased farmer. The CPI-ML legislators had also waved maize plants in front of assembly speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary.
 
 CPI-ML legislator Sudama Prasad, who visited Bind Toli and Milki village in Bhojpur on Sunday to find out the reason behind Dashrath Bind’s suicide, said the farmer had taken at least five orchards on lease from the big farmers by taking a loan of Rs 2 lakh. “The recent hailstorm destroyed his mango crops and compelled him to commit suicide,” Prasad said. He demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the next of the kin of the deceased farmer and a house under Indira Awas Yojna to his family. 
 
 
