 is set to be celebrated on 14th January 2018. It is the perfect way to continue the celebrations of the year that went by and also to mark the beginning of the harvest season. This holy festival is also known as the phase of transition, as from now onwards days will start becoming longer and nights will become shorter. This also means that the temperature will start rising post this festival and weather will hence become hotter. 

 
 
 Makar Sankranti is a festival which is devoted and dedicated to the sun god, Surya. Many people also take a dip in the holy waters of Ganga to commemorate the auspicious festival. In India, there are many names for Makar S example, ankranti, such as Poush Sangkranti in West Bengal, Maghi in Himachal Pradesh, Bihu in Assam and Pongal in Tamil Nadu. 
 
 For many parts in India, this is the time to harvest Rabi crops. In Punjab and northern parts of India, this is the time when the farmers get ready for the seeds they had sown to grow into crops and give them business. The first crop of this season is worshipped along with other delectables such rewari and popcorn. People of the community come together and sing songs and dance around the bon fire.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The main reason to celebrate Makar Sankranti is to celebrate the harvest season. There are various factors which lead to this celebration. Firstly, before this the farmers have sown seeds and ploughed the fields for a good harvest which gives them good business in the coming year. Secondly, Makar Sankranti means that from now on days are going to be longer and the nights are going to be shorter. Thirdly, this is celebration time which is extremely auspicious as per the hindu calendar. 
 
 For example, a key festival in northern India and more specifically one of the main festivals of Punjab, Lohri is a festival which is celebrated with much pomp and show. What makes this festival even more special is that it is perfectly timed with the chill on our heads and the new year which just went by. This auspicious festival is going to be celebrated on 13th January 2018. The key reason behind celebrating Lohri is the onset of the harvest season in Punjab. This is commemorated by paying respect and homage to the sun god, Surya. 
 
 Lohri is celebrated to mark the end of sowing the seeds and to celebrate the beginning of the farming season, that is reaping the benefits of all the hard work the farmers had put in. Locally, Lohri is celebrated with traditional food, folk dances, and bon fire. 
 
 Since this is a festival celebrated predominantly in northern India, Punjab being the key state also has states such Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Haryana celebrating it with the same enthusiasm. When Lohri first came about and farmers had started celebrating the benefit of their hard work, Lohri was meant to be celebrated on the shortest day and longest night of the year. But, with the grilling chill worsening by the year, eventually people started celebrating the harvest season festival towards the end of the winter season. 
 
 
 
 In other parts of the country such as Maharashtra, til-gurh laddoos are locally made and distributed. Meanwhile in Gujarat, Uttarayan is celebrated. Also known as the kite festival, Uttarayan is the time you can see Gujarat and neighbouring towns celebrating this season of Makar Sankranti with much enthusiasm. This is also the time when India sticks to its roots and welcomes the new year with open arms! 
 
 In Southern India and more specifically in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, a rice preparation called Pongal is made exclusively during this festival. In Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, Makar Sankranti is known as Pongal. Just like in Punjab, farmers in southern and western India pay homage to the crops that are about to be cut.
 
 
