The demise of violin virtuoso Parur   on Monday came as a shock to the entire music fraternity. As a kid, I used to hear him play for lead artists and in 1992 finally had the honour of having him play for me at a concert at Sastri Hall in Chennai. Since then, Anantharaman mama — as we fondly called him — had been an accompanist for me and later for Carnatica   in nearly 100  . 

 Son of Parur Sundaram Iyer, Anantharaman mama was trained both in the Carnatic and Hindustani traditions of music. Violinists of the Parur school are known for their bowing techniques, precise notes and dexterity at playing three-and-a-half octaves. In his musical career of more than eight decades, Anantharaman mama had been an accompanist to nearly five generations of musicians including stalwarts like MS Subbulakshmi, M Balamuralikrishna and Radha-Jayalakshmi. 
 
 The first thing I appreciated about him was his ability to be a team player. In one of my concerts in the early 1990s, I remember how he encouraged me backstage. He was an authority in Muthuswami Dikshitar’s compositions, and I was about to present a thematic concert on the Hindustani raga-based compositions of Dikshitar. Before the concert, he walked me through the characteristics of some of the ragas, and yet followed the principles of being an accompanist on the stage. He would never dominate the main performer, but would still play a vital role in enhancing the level of the concert. 
 
 Me, my cousin P Ganesh and mridangist B Sivaraman (the Carnatic Brothers team) got to learn from the violin exponent and know him up close and personal during our concert tours abroad. During a US-Canada tour in 2003, Anantharaman mama would get up at 3am every day to practice. He was so fond of his violin that he would never let the security person at the airport touch it. "I am a seniormost   in India. I can play and show you. I am B A honours," was his catchphrase at every airport. In fact, during a security check up at one of the US airports, he took out the violin and played it for the security person. 
 
 A passionate musician, Anantharaman mama was always up for challenges. One special concert with him that I cherish to this day was in Tennessee during the US-Canada tour. The organiser who chauffeured us to the venue told us that the previous artiste who performed there sang for four-and-a-half hours.   came the reply from Anantharaman mama, "No big deal, today Carnatica Brothers will sing for five-and-a-half hours." It was indeed a marathon concert that lasted five hours and 50 minutes and Anantharaman mama — nearly 80 years then — played with no fatigue. 
 
 A great guru, he worked as a teacher at Government Music College for 28 years and also taught students in   and Pittsburg. Besides his sons — violinists M A Sundaresan and M A Krishnaswami — and his grandson Parur M S Ananthakrishnan, Anantharaman mama has students who will take the Parur legacy ahead. Yet, his loss is irreplaceable to the music world even though his music will be a guiding force for many generations to come.
 
 (The writer is a vocalist and a part of Carnatica Brothers)
 
 
 
 
 
 
