LUCKNOW: Unlike the   elections, the   and its allies have avoided a direct contest with a united opposition in the UP legislative council elections.

 On Monday, only 11 candidates fielded by BJP and its ally   their nominations. Given their position in the UP House, the BJP and its allies can win only 11 seats. The  , too, fielded only its state president  , while supporting BSP nominee Bhimrao Ambedkar, who filed his nomination last week.
 
 This way, all 13 nominees would get elected unopposed after April 18, the last date for withdrawing nominations.
 
 On party’s decision not to field an extra candidate, state BJP chief   said “rajniti sambhavnaon ka khel hai (politics is a game of possibilities),” and added that “Our party is a focused organisation working for the benefit of people.”
 
 SP nominee Naresh Uttam said the BJP has always been averse to exercising ‘rajnaitik shuchita’ (political morality) in a bid to dent its political opponents. “Everyone saw that BJP fielded a powerful and rich candidate to beat a Dalit candidate in the Rajya Sabha elections,” he said. “But tis time it could not muster enough courage,” Uttam added.
 
 Earlier in the day, all 10 BJP nominees, including the three SP turncoats (Yashwant Singh, Sarojini Agarwal and Bukkal Nawab) and one of BSP (Jaiveer Singh), assembled at the party headquarters in the presence of CM Yogi Adityanath and party state chief Mahendra Nath Pandey amid cheering supporters. After taking into account ‘mahurat’ (auspicious time), they headed to the   to file their nominations.
 
 The first one to reach was BJP’s Dalit candidate and party state general secretary  . A beaming Sonkar, who was accompanied by deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, thanked party’s national chief Amit Shah and state chief Pandey for giving him an opportunity to serve the party in a better way.
 
 The remaining nine candidates, including party state general secretaries Vijay Bahadur Pathak, Ashok Kataria and Ashok Dhawan arrived later. The 11th candidate — BJP’s ally Apna Dal’s Ashish Singh — too arrived at the same time.
 
 
