Once you feel that you have symptoms related to a heart ailment and go to healthcare provider, he may suggest some tests to confirm diagnosis. The tests you'll need to diagnose your   depends on what condition your doctor thinks you might have. No matter what type of heart disease you have, your doctor will likely perform a physical exam and ask about your personal and family medical history before doing any tests. One of such tests is  . 

 Stress test is an exercise test and is often used to diagnose disease of the arteries which supply blood to your heart. When we go for a brisk walk or a swim or a run, our heart has to do more work. When the physically activity is lower; the heart isn’t working very hard. The purpose of a stress test is to objectively assess how well the heart functions during increased activity.
 
 Is it necessary to do anything to prepare for a stress test? You may be advised to avoid a heavy meal, drinks with caffeine for two to three hours before the test, so that the measurements are as accurate as possible. How is it performed? The test usually involves walking on a treadmill or using an exercise bike. The speed and incline of the treadmill will go up gradually. During the test you are carefully monitored to record the heart rate and blood pressure readings. The electrical activity of the heart is also recorded through an  . An exercise treadmill test typically goes on for a maximum of 12 minutes. The entire process will not hurt you at all. Some patients’ symptoms may have been caused by exercise during the stress test. These symptoms should stop quickly when the test ends. Your symptoms will be carefully monitored and the person doing the test will know that they need to stop if any signs occur.
 
 The test is designed to see how well the heart performs under stress. For example, if someone has a narrowing in one of the arteries which supply blood to your heart; that abnormality may show in the electrical tracing that is recorded during the test. A stress test is often used as a screening test. If the results are normal, then typically you won’t need further tests. If it’s not, you may require further tests, depending on the type of problem identified. It’s much safer to do a controlled test like this rather than running 10 km knowing that there might be something wrong with the heart.
 
 
 
 
 
