A few months back, the newly renovated walls of the Agra Cantt   station became popular as the perfect background to click selfies for passengers waiting for their trains. And now,   is going to follow suit. The Railway department, in order to beautify the station, has initiated a project where the walls will be painted, giving the stations a fresh look. The railway station is being beautified with works of vibrant   being recreated on the walls. The railway administration has roped in the students of   to implement the project. 

  
  The railway administration has roped in students of Lalit Kala Sansthan to paint the walls of Raja Mandi railway station
 
 
 Rashmi Baghel, senior DCM, Agra Division, North-Central Railways, says, "We have started the project of beautifying the railway stations in the districts with the tagline ‘Mera Station, Meri Shaan’. After the beautification of Agra Cantt railway station, where we have given a Mughal feel to the station with the paintings resembling 'pachhikari' work of Agra, we are using modern art for Raja Mandi railway station.” The walls of the station will depict the Ram Baraat of Agra through the paintings. Rashmi Baghel adds, “There is a popular temple inside the station. The walls of the station also touch the temple and that’s why we have decided to show Agra’s famous Ram Baraat through the paintings on the walls.”
 
  
  Students of Lalit Kala Sansthan have been roped in to implement the project (BCCL/ Hemant Kumar)
 
 Shardul Mishra, a teacher at Lalit Kala Sansthan, says, "Generally, the walls in a railway station are damaged with paan stains, which look disgusting. To thwart people from spitting on the walls we have joined the campaign of beautifying the railway stations of Agra. Thanks to this project, our students have got a great platform to hone their skills, while earning a few bucks."
 
  
  
 
 Rahul Sharma, a resident of Kamla Nagar who visited the Raja Mandi railway station recently, says, "It seems as if the station has turned into an art gallery! Though work is still on, the entire look of the station has changed. The use of bright colours in the paintings has given a lively look to the station. I have also seen few youngsters clicking selfies with the paintings in the background."
 
  
  
 
 
 
