LUCKNOW: There’s more bad news for around seven lakh residents of Indiranagar and Gomtinagar who have been facing acute   for over a month now due to stoppage of Sharda Sahayak Feeder Canal’s supply to the third waterworks at Kathauta Jheel: it has only 8 feet   now which can suffice bare minimum supply for next seven days only.

 Jal Sansthan has written a letter to the irrigation department to resume supply by next week, else they will be in serious trouble. The irrigation department had said that the canal would be opened on May 26.
 
 The water scarcity started from April 15 when the irrigation department shut the canal’s supply to undertake its cleaning.
 
 Since this canal also feeds water to Kathauta Jheel besides supplying water for irrigation purpose, it is closed twice a year for cleaning of silt. The canal is normally closed for 30-45 days and the Jal Sansthan is informed in advance to store and arrange for alternative supply during the period.
 
 Jal Sansthan usually reduces supply timings to regulate stored water and increases use of tube wells.
 
 This year, the problem worsened as locals of Indirangar and Gomtinagar started facing water scarcity last month. Jal Sansthan has cut supply timings by an hour in both shifts.
 
 “We are facing water supply shortage. The pressure of supply is so less that we are barely able to fill the water needed for our family. My whole kitchen is full of utensils and buckets full of water,” said Alka Srivastav of Indirangar.
 
 “The supply timings are so erratic that I cannot leave home for even an hour. They alter supply timings to manage crisis but are not regular. They resume supply any time, there is no fixed time which causes problems to us,” said Neelima Tomar of Gomtinagar.
 
 Residents of some areas also complain about supply of dirty water and attribute it to low poor pressure.
 
 Saloni Sharma of Sector 11, Indiranagar, complained that dirt and sludge mixed water is being supplied since last two weeks. “Due to low supply pressure, dust and dirt from surroundings is being sucked into pipes,” she added.
 
 Jal Sansthan general manager SK Verma said, “We have requested the irrigation department to resume canal supply by May 20 on priority else the impacted area will face a severe crisis. The supply takes two additional days to reach the reservoir, so the department needs to fix the cleaning fast.”
 
