HYDERABAD: Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu appeared to inch closer to cobbling together an anti-BJP coalition with his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee urging him to take the lead in consolidating the Opposition ahead of 2019 elections.

 
 At the swearing-in ceremony of H D Kumaraswamy as Karnataka chief minister in Bengaluru on Wednesday, apart from Mamata, Naidu interacted with   president Rahul Gandhi, former UP CM Akhilesh Yadav, BSP chief  , Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, JD(U) leader Sharad Yadav and CPM’s  .
 
 “It was agreed upon that regional parties should be united to protect the interest of states. Few leaders wanted our chief minister (Naidu) to take the initiative to discuss issues related to funds allocation from the Centre,” TDP spokesperson Kambhampati Ramamohana Rao, who accompanied the AP CM, told 
 .
 
 
 
 
 ‘Cooperative Federalism’ Talk At Meet
 
 In Naidu’s meeting with Mamata, the two leaders discussed cooperative federalism. “Both were of the view that the Centre is behaving in a way that state’s rights are being trampled. Mamata said terms of reference of the 15
  Finance Commission are detrimental to states. She said regional parties should come together for development of states,” said sources. In his meeting with Mayawati, the BSP leader said joining together of BSP and SP in the recent Lok Sabha bypolls in Uttar Pradesh proved to be the right choice and the way forward for general elections next year, they said.
 
 In the case of Rahul Gandhi, it was a pleasant informal meeting with the Congress president on the dais immediately after the swearing-in of Kumaraswamy. Naidu gently tapped on Rahul Gandhi’s shoulder after they stood beside each other and waved among the leaders to send signals that could not have been expected sometime ago. And Chandrababu Naidu, clearly has conveyed he would play a big role in an anti-BJP front, even if it meant, for now, sharing the dais with Congress and its top leaders, including Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi.
 
 Immediately after the swearing-in, former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav and Naidu shook hands and began a conversation. They were quickly joined in by Mamata. With Naidu flanked by both, it was a signal that could not be missed – three power houses coming together.
 
 If Naidu’s presence was electrifying to say the least, the absence of TRS president and Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao who has been trying to cobble up an anti-BJP and anti-Congress front , as it appeared, was not really felt. KCR went on Tuesday itself to meet Kumaraswamy and congratulate him — as he had consciously decided not to be part of the pro-Congress regional parties — which shed whatever differences they had to show up to signal unity.
 
 For the towering personality that Naidu is – with 40 years of political experience – nine years as chief minister of united Andhra Pradesh and now four years of AP after bifurcation – he has displayed political acumen in the past bringing together various parties when necessary if the political situation demanded.
 
 “Met with Mamata and Mayawati at the swearing-in ceremony of Kumaraswamy as Karnataka's CM. We're here to strengthen regional parties and will work together to protect and promote national interests,” Chandrababu Naidu tweeted after the meeting and posted pictures of him with both of them.
 
 The AP CM also met with   general secretary Sitaram Yechury and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal informally. “They ( ) have failed. This (JDS-Congress govt formation in Karnataka) is a victory for democracy and a victory for the opposition,” he said. Naidu agreed with Yechury when he said: “Unless all secular democratic forces come together, this sort of kidnapping of democracy cannot be prevented.” “So, this is the message that we have,” Naidu said in the conversation. Former Union minister Y V Chowdhary of TDP who quit the NDA government chipped in to say, “This is the beginning for their (BJP) fall and restoration of democracy.”
 
 At the swearing-in, Naidu was flanked by Mayawati on the right and Arvind Kejriwal on the left. Before the swearing in ceremony, Naidu met with various leaders, including CPI leaders D Raja and Suravaram Sudhakar Reddy.
 
