After finishing my cardio session at the gym, while on my way back home, I switched on the   in the car. I was fortunate enough to listen to a few of my favourite tracks while driving back, though it played in between about 100 odd advertisements. My mood was upbeat and I was tapping my fingers on the steering wheel while listening to a couple of tracks.

 I started thinking of music.   is magic. When I say that, I truly mean it. You needn't be a connoisseur of any particular kind of music and you needn't be trained in it, you needn't even have an ear for it ...but music is something that will not let you go without creating some sort of a connect and would make an impact in your life at any given stage. Music is the most powerful thing that can make or mar your state of mind and emotion.
 
 When you are at a party sans music, you can make out the difference. It would be difficult for peo ple to make conversations with new people. If there's music in the background, it helps people mingle.Even if people aren't talking at a party it doesn't matter, but when there isn't a band playing, there will be an uneasy silence, making the evening dull.
 
 Music has an amazing power to make you feel your emotions that are so strong and sometimes hidden within. The same song, which once made you feel good, would be something that would make you feel nostalgic or even low, at times.If you've had a hard day at work or at home, a song can help you feel good just within a few minutes.
 
 There are   from your growing up times, that you love playing to your kids and go on and on about how life was then with family and friends; there are songs that make your heart skip a beat whenever you hear them because of the memories it kindles every time; there are songs that make you cry instantly and there are also songs that make you dance without a second thought. There are songs that you need to listen to every day as a booster, and songs that have become a habit through the years; there are songs that you play to remember important days and there are also those tracks that you dread listening to and never want to listen again.
 
 If we think about it, we will realise that it is the music that we listen to make us what we are inside.Music that our mothers played to us, songs that we sang and listened to along with friends, tunes that we hum while under the shower and when alone, beats that we enjoy in the company of our near and dear ones, are the songs that mould us.Music makes the man.
 
 It really doesn't matter what kind of music you are in to. But it's important that you keep music close to you. It has the miraculous ability to change one's emotional state within three minutes. That's something new, isn't it ?
 
 Whenever I'm all by myself, driving my car, I love to keep the radio on. I find it simply amazing as to how one song can take you on a journey through a whole set of emotions and events, while with the next song you feel and go through a completely different thread of all the above. Listen to music... seek and find out which kind of music appeals to you. Keep it close to you-for music is medication to almost any state of mind.
 
 (Views expressed above are the author's own) 
 
 
 
 
