NEW DELHI: Shiromani Akali Dal on Wednesday demanded justice in the 1984   cases, after circulation of an alleged video of a purported sting showing "confession" of a   leader on "killing" 100 Sikhs during the violence.

 Speaking in the   during Zero Hour, SAD member Sukhdev Singh   said new evidence has surfaced after the purported sting operation in which the Congress leader has allegedly "confessed to killing 100 Sikhs".
 
 Though Dhindsa also named the Congress leader, Chairman M   ruled that no names would go on record. Amid protests from Congress members that the matter is sub judice and the court has already taken cognisance, Dhindsa said: "When will Sikhs get justice? They have been waiting for justice for the last 34 years."
 
 He asked who the Congress leaders' accomplices were as one person could not have killed 100 people. 
 
 Congress members objected to Dhindsa raking up the issue, saying the matter is "sub judice hence could not be discussed in the  ". However, the Chairman refused to accept their demand.
 
 "Rules do not allow this issue to be raised. It is sub judice," Congress member Anand Sharma said objecting to the Chairs order. The House cannot be converted into a trial court, he said.
 
 Naidu said: "I have allowed the matter to be raised after Dhindsa met me in my chamber and shown me the CD. "I told him that the authenticity of the CD needs to be proved. I dont find any objection." Amid protests from the Congress MPs, Dhindsa said: "The Congress leader has made confession about the genocide."
 
 SAD member said the accused in the sting claims that no action was taken against him except a sham inquiry.
 
 Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) had on Monday released a video of a purported sting operation recorded in 2011, which he said was received by him from an unknown person on February 3.
 
  Earlier on Tuesday, SAD senior vice-president and Anandpur Sahib MP   had called upon the Union government to ensure safety of minorities in the country and sought action against Congress leader Jagdish  .
 
 
