GURUGRAM: The proposed Independence Day launch of the city bus service is fast becoming a race against time for the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, leading to the possibility of the deadline not being met for the ambitious public transport project.

 With the bidding process yet to be over and the cashless ticketing system yet to be finalised, officials admitted it may not be possible to flag off the service on August 15.
 
 According to the tender document, the concessionaire (company that runs the bus service) will get just four months to bring the buses on the road once the order is bagged. On January 31, the CM had announced that 200 city buses will be rolled out on August 15. Going by the tender document, the tender should have been awarded by April 15. But that is yet to happen. The Gurugram city bus service will have a fleet of 500, with the remaining 300 buses set to be launched in the second stage, which will probably be in 2019.
 
  CEO  , told TOI, “We have a board meet on May 3, and the tender for 100 buses is likely to be awarded. If the allotment is done now, we should be able to meet the August 15 deadline, else it might get slightly delayed.”
 
 According to officials, four bidders have qualified in the financial bid process and the lowest bidder (L1) will bag the tender for 100 buses. Umashankar said, “Around 10 days ago, we held negotiations with the lowest bidder and the cost it quoted was competitive. But the cost difference between L1 and L2 (second lowest bidder) is quite significant. After the tender for the first 100 buses is finalised, discussions for the second lot of 100 buses will begin. A counter offer will be made to L2 and it will be asked to match the cost quoted by L1. In case L2 refuses, we will approach L3 and then L4. If all the three refuse to match the cost of L1, then either we will offer both packages (100+100) to L1 or we will go for re-tendering.”
 
 GMDA is also building 328 bus shelters. MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav and chief engineer   on Saturday visited the site in   where one of the three   will come up (the others are in sectors 48 and 52). “While construction work in sectors 10 and 52 has started, work for the depot in Sector 48 will be allotted soon. The depot in Sector 10 will have a capacity of 75 buses and will be ready by August,” Yadav said.
 
 
 
