DELHI: The three political parties in   have unanimously rejected the proposed landfill sites at Ghonda-Gujran and Sonia Vihar. The two sites were allotted by   to the civic body after receiving a nod from Central Pollution Control Board. The move had, however, attracted criticism from political parties as well as experts as both the sites are near the Yamuna. The reasons for rejection cited by the   include lack of civic facilities in Shahdara (north), opposition from locals, possible health hazard to the surrounding population, the precedent of   disallowing agriculture on the same floodplain, as well as possible impact on other towns and cities settled along the Yamuna banks. 

 
 East Delhi mayor Bipin Bihari Singh said, “Every few years, Yamuna Khadar gets flooded and these sites are located in that zone. The flood can carry the garbage to Yamuna, which will ultimately end up in the Ganga and pollute the entire ecosystem. Rain will also carry leachate in the river. Besides, 30 lakh people living next to the two sites use the open spaces like parks.”
 
 Asked what should be done to manage garbage as the Ghazipur landfill site is already at a dangerous height, Bihari told TOI, “DDA should allocate land far away from human habitation. Foreign countries don’t have landfill sites. Even east Delhi should move towards a system where there is no need for landfills. We already have one waste-toenergy plant. We will set up another one soon. Most of the garbage will be used by these plants.”
 
 Senior officials said that experts from IIT-Delhi will help flatten the side slopes of the Ghazipur site to ensure that no landslide occurs in the future. “A group of experts from IIT-Delhi will advise   on stability analysis of the Ghazipur landfill waste slope parallel to the canal. A remedial agency will be hired to help in providing the conceptual designs for developing the slopes,” said a senior EDMC official.
 
 However, officials pointed out that to complete the process, dumping should be stopped at the landfill site. “The House should suggest areas where landfill sites could be developed so that reclamation work for Ghazipur can be started,” said a senior official.
 
