GURUGRAM:   has filed a   against a zonal taxation officer (ZTO) for allegedly conniving with the owner of a banquet hall, which was rented out for a wedding ceremony days after it was sealed by civic officials over pending taxes.

 The municipal body has already removed six clerks from their respective posts for allegedly turning a blind eye to this blatant violation of norms and favouring the banquet hall owner.
 
 Vivek Kalia, joint commissioner, MCG, said an FIR would be filed against the owner of the banquet hall located on Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road.
 
 Kalia said that the banquet hall in question was sealed over non-payment of property taxes around a month and half ago. However, the owner organised a function at the property by ‘concealing the seal with flowers and decorations’. An MCG team, led by the zonal taxation officer, sat on the matter even after getting the information.
 
 Kalia further said despite several reminders, the team did not take any action against the property owner. “The matter was then raised before the commissioner. And following internal discussions, we submitted a complaint,” he added. He said if investigation revealed more serious charges against the ZTO and others, suitable action would be initiated.
 
 “After the sealing, a function was organised at the property, which was in the knowledge of the ZTO. But no action was taken against the owner, which shows carelessness on part of the (accused) official. We have filed a chargesheet and sought a reply from the ZTO,” said  , MCG commissioner.
 
 The six clerks involved in the case include a senior computer clerk, computer clerk and three other staffers. All of them were hired through a third party.
 
 An MCG source said the six clerks and the ZTO had not only failed to take action against the banquet hall owner but also helped him evade taxes. “While banquet hall owners should pay taxes at commercial rates, some of them were charged at the rate of residential properties against monetary benefits,” said the source.
 
 Kalia, however, said the charges of bribery and corruption hadn’t been proved yet and he could validate or deny these allegations only after the probe. “As far as the alleged change in property type is concerned, we are probing the matter,” he added.
 
 TOI had earlier reported most of the banquet halls in the city had been running without paying property taxes for almost a decade. They owed a whopping Rs 9.57 crore to MCG as tax dues. The civic body had carried out drives across the city and sealed several banquet halls in March and April.
 
 
