GOLD COAST: The Indian women's hockey team showed great character as they rallied past Olympic champions England 2-1 in a Pool A clash on Sunday. With a loss and two wins to their credit, the Rani-led side kept their semifinals hopes intact.

 
 India suffered a jolt in the opening minute when England skipper   scored in the 35th second of the game. After the initial setback, Indian goalkeeper   weighed in with her experience and kept the opposition strikers from causing further damage.
 
 A strong third and fourth quarter performance from India saw   (42th minute) and   (48th minute) striking for the 2002 champions.
 
 In the first quarter, the Indian strike duo of   and Lalremsiami made inroads but failed to convert their goal-bound chances. Missed penalty corners in the first half only added to the pressure building on India.
 
 After the half-time break, India kept creating opportunities as they pressed their opposition in the backline. The efforts were rewarded in the 42nd minute when  's pass to Navneet Kaur was slotted home by the latter. In the 48th minute, Rani earned India a penalty corner which dragflicker Gurjit Kaur struck past the opposition's goalkeeper Hinch. The Indian team will next play South Africa on April 10. A win will see them through to the semifinals.
 
 
 
 
 Indian men's scrappy show continued for the second match in a row. After settling for a morale-sapping 2-all draw against Pakistan on Saturday, they struggled past Wales for a 4-3 win, thanks to a late goal by V Sunil, on Sunday.
 
 If the Indian strikers lacked planning and execution in the circle, the penalty corner specialists were guilty of having squandered most of the 13 penalty corners they earned. For Wales, Gareth Furlong scored a hat-trick (17th, 45th and 58th mins), converting three out of the four penalty corners Wales earned. Wales put up a spirited show packing their defence to frustrate the Indian frontline. With   (16'), Mandeep Singh (28') and   (57') it looked like the match was heading into another draw, but Sunil's goal in the 59th minute helped India avoid some embarrassment.
 
