MUMBAI: The   directed the BMC on Tuesday to issue a birth   to a three-year-old without including her father’s name in it. The court also directed the civic authority to conduct an inquiry to find out why there were two information reports on her birth.

 “Prima facie, both forms could not have been filled in at the same time,” said a bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Riyaz Chagla, directing the municipal commissioner to appoint a senior officer to hold an inquiry into the matter.
 
 If there are certain procedural lapses, the commissioner will issue necessary directions for correcting them so that provisions of the   of Births and Deaths Act are scrupulously followed, the bench added.
 
 The directions came on a petition by an unwed mother, now aged 23, who delivered a girl in November 2014. 
 
 She requested that the name of the child’s   be removed from the records and her status be changed to “unmarried”. She denied providing the father’s name or occupation or that she was married at the time of the child’s   registration. 
 
 Her petition cited the 2015 Supreme Court judgment which directed that if a single or unwed mother applies for a   and files an affidavit, it must be issued without insisting on the biological father’s name.
 
 At the court’s behest, the BMC advocate Suresh Pakale produced the girl’s birth certificate and Form 1, which is a report giving information on the birth. 
 
 The judges noted that the BMC had earlier submitted the same form and it is dissimilar in content.
 
 The judges said the BMC’s power to correct entries in the register is limited. Under the circumstances, to record that the entry is erroneous or fraudulent, or whether the mother disclosed the information or somebody else, is a controversy to be decided by the civil court, and therefore the high court cannot order deletion of an entry in Form 1 and consequently in the birth register. 
 
 “If there is a declaration granted by the civil court, obviously corrections will have to be made,” it added.
 
 The bench noted that on March 12, the father was present and consented to deleting his name from all records of the child. 
 
 “In this case, if the entries are in Form 1, these will remain on record,” it said. 
 
 Following the Supreme Court judgment, it directed that “when a birth certificate is issued, the name of the father shall not be incorporated and the space shall be kept blank”.
 
 
