MUMBAI:There was drama in the state assembly on Friday as the government dodged a notice of no-confidence by the opposition against   by moving a confidence motion backing him that was quickly passed by ruling BJP-Shiv Sena legislators. 

 
 
  
 The state took this route although it outnumbers the opposition in the assembly and a noconfidence motion would have been easily defeated. The confidence motion was moved by chief minister   and backed by PWD minister Eknath Shinde from the Sena. 
 
 It was passed by a voice vote even as the Congress-NCP protested. The government says the no-confidence notice is now infructuous, but the opposition insists it is pending and should be taken up for admission when the assembly reconvenes on Monday. 
 
 Opposition leaders met governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao in the afternoon. “The government did this because it wanted avoid a discussion on corruption, and law and order. I wanted to raise the Loya case,” alleged   leader Prithviraj Chavan. Opposition leaders decried the development as a “black day for democracy” and “an insult to the Constitution”, saying it was unprecedented in the state. However, Fadnavis argued in the assembly that former CM Vilasrao Deshmukh had done the same in 2006. 
 
 “We have followed the rules and there is a precedent. Deshmukh had also moved a confidence motion and got it passed. You were ministers then,” Fadnavis told the opposition. 
 
 However, Congress leader Radhakrishna VikhePatil said, “In Vilasrao Deshmukh’s time there was a noconfidence motion against the government. This is one against the speaker and follows an entirely different procedure.” The opposition had moved a notice of no-confidence against the speaker on March 5, alleging that he was biased. 
 
 According to the rules, the notice has to be read out in the assembly after 14 days. If supported by at least 29 members, it has to be allowed and a date set for it to be heard within 7 days. “After 14 days lapsed, we kept raising the issue but Fadnavis said it would be taken up at an appropriate time,” said NCP leader Jayant Patil. 
 
 Parliamentary affairs minister Girish Bapat accused the opposition of a lack of cooperation. At noon, state finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar requested that the assembly pass the Appropriation Bill. Immediately after it was passed, Fadnavis proposed a confidence motion backing Bagde, leaving the Opposition stunned. 
 
 Amid opposition protests, presiding officer Sudhakar Deshmukh, who was in the Speaker’s chair, adjourned the assembly. 
 
 Later, Congress leader Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil asked for the opposition’s no-confidence notice to be admitted. However, Fadnavis did not let him read out the notice, saying it was infructuous. He pointed to the precedent set by late Vilasrao Deshmukh. 
 
 BJP MLAs started shouting Vande Mataram, even as the presiding officer Subhash Sabne allowed bills to be introduced in the chaos. Former assembly speaker Dilip Walse-Patil stood up to explain the rules surrounding the no-confidence vote but parliamentary affairs minister Girish Bapat said discussions on the issue could not be allowed. “The confidence vote is over. This issue cannot be raised,” said Bapat. Presiding officer Sabne adjourned the assembly for the day.
 
 
 
