All hopes of reaping a bumper crop were dashed last week for Duraisamy. With an eye on making a huge profit during Onam festival,   had planted 1,500 banana plants at his farm in Kandiyur, 15km from Karamadai. 

 More than 1,000 plants in Duraisamy’s plantation were destroyed by gale gusts last week. Many   across the district have lost nearly 40 hectares of the planation to the summer gale in the past two weeks.
 
 Mohan  , 47, a farmer from Kandiyur, said that he knows at least 10 other farmers in his village who have lost 50% of their banana plantations to strong winds and rain. “We have been planting banana for the past two generations. Every year, during the months of May, June and July, our crops get damaged. We have tried everything that the government recommends including providing support to the plants with bamboo sticks and rods. But when the wind velocity is high, all the plants get damaged,” he said.
 
 Lack of compensation and inadequate crop insurance has forced these formers to shift to other crops. This has led to the decrease of banana plantation by nearly 1,300 hectares in the past two years. The most affected areas are Karamadai, Annur, S S Kulam and Periyanaickenpalayam. As per the data available with the horticulture department, more than 280 hectares have been damaged in the past three years due to summer gale.
 
 “Almost half of the farmers in our village have stopped planting banana due to this issue,” said  , a farmer from Annur block.
 
 In the district, farmers of all the 12 blocks plant banana and the most sought after variety is ‘Nendran’ also known as  . “The stem of this particular variety is very weak and during winds, they get completely damaged. Also, these are planted as rabi crop in December so that it can be harvested during Onam festival,” said M Jothimani, horticulture officer. 
 
 She added that after every rainfall or gale, the officials visit the villages and consolidate the losses. Assistant director of horticulture, Coimbatore, Sathya said that they send the reports regularly to the state government.
 
 Officials said that nearly 1,500 farmers in the district have crop insurance. “We try our best to ensure farmers do not face losses. But due to high premium which is about Rs 3,655 per hectare, the farmers do not opt for it,” said an official. Farmers on the other hand said even after paying such high premium, they often did not get any money from the insurance companies as the norms laid out were unreasonable.
 
 Every time crops are affected, the prices of banana go up in the market. "Everyone gets affected due to this. Over the year, the damage has only increased and the rates have also considerably gone high,” said S Perumal, a banana trader. 
 
 Under the disaster management fund, these farmers are compensated and paid Rs 5 per tree. But farmers said that they spent nearly Rs 100-150 on each plant. “The crop insurance scheme is also not benefitting us as the money is paid only if all the farmlands in the village are affected by the wind,” said P  , state general secretary for farmers' association. 
 
 “The government should declare this gale as a natural calamity and ensure the farmers are compensated for the losses. Else, the farmers will be deep in debts,” he said.
 
 
