BENGALURU: To facilitate  , officers on election duty will hand out a   to citizens at their doorstep. It will contain information like the  , contact details of booth-level officers and helpline numbers.

 BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad, who is also the election officer for 28 assembly constituencies in Bengaluru Urban district, on Tuesday said the voter guides, available in both Kannada and English, will be handed over to voters along with photo voter slips seven days before the polling day (May 12) in all 8,278 polling booths.
 
 “Voter guides are being introduced for the first time in Karnataka. They will also mention dos and don’ts for voters at polling stations,” Prasad said.
 
 Election officials said voter facilitation centres will be set up within 200 metres of each polling station on D-Day to assist those who haven’t received voter slips or have other queries. “Since the VVPAT system is being introduced, the height of the voting compartment will be raised to 30 inches so that people can exercise their franchise without hindrance. Also, as announced earlier, the ballot unit will have photographs of the candidates so that voters don’t get confused by candidates with the same names,” explained Prasad.
 
 He said ECI is yet to announce poll timings and the finger which will bear the indelible ink mark.
 
 88 lakh and counting: Register by April 14
 Election officials said 87,98,335 (around 88 lakh) voters’ names are in the electoral rolls prepared for the 28 assembly constituencies in Bengaluru Urban district. Eligible citizens who are yet to register or want to update any details can do so till April 14.
 
 Prasad said after the draft voters’ list was published a few months ago, they received 3.7 lakh applications for inclusion of names and 3.1 lakh had been accepted. Asked when newly enrolled voters would get electronic photo identity cards (EPICs), he said they were awaiting holograms from the EC and the exercise would be completed within the next 10 days.
 
 Private schoolteachers may pitch in
 Prasad said to meet the shortage of personnel, they have written to ECI to allow them to deploy teachers from private schools and colleges for poll duty. “If the proposal is approved, it will be the first time teachers from private institutions will participate in election work. Since the VVPAT system requires at least one additional staff at each station, we need more than 54,000 personnel and are running short by about 5,000,” he said.
 
 Election officials said they will hold mock voting exercise, one hour before the actual process begins, in the presence of agents of political parties to ensure the system is foolproof.
 
