AMBALA:   Kumar (34), a resident of Rana Complex,   Cantonment committed suicide at his residence after hanging himself from his ceiling fan on Wednesday. A   was found from his pocket with names of eight co-workers mentioned in the note, stating that they used to torture and harass him at his workplace. 

 Mukesh was a worker at Shiv Dayal and Sons Factory, plot number 113 in Mahesh Nagar, Industrial Area of Ambala Cantonment from the past five years.
 
 On Tuesday, Mukesh came back home after leaving his wife and five-year-old son at his in-laws’ place at Shahbad. On Wednesday, he called his wife and said he is frustrated with his co-workers at the factory and is ending his life as they continue to torture, harass and make fun of him. On his last phone call to his wife, he said he had been instigated to ‘do something wrong’. 
 
 The worried wife, immediately called his father-in-law Gulab Singh (65), a tailor by profession. Gulab Singh said he and his wife, Omvati, who works at a private firm, were out working on the day of the incident. 
 
 Receiving the call from his daughter-in-law, Gulab Singh quickly reached his house and with the help of neighbours smashed the door of his son’s room and found him hanging from the ceiling fan. Police was immediately informed and the body was taken down. A two-page suicide note was also found from his pocket.
 
 On the complaint of Gulab Singh, police have registered a case under sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) against eight accused identified as Balwinder, Fauji, Suresh, Rakesh Ustad, Binder, Bablu, Rajneesh, Raju and Santosh, who were named in the suicide note by the Mukesh. 
 
 Investigation officer assistant sub-inspector Ramesh said we have registered the case against the accused and analysing the details mentioned in the suicide note. Once, the sequence of the event is established, the accused will be taken into custody for further legal action.
 
 The suicide note written by Mukesh sought jail term for at leats 10 years for the accused along with a fine of Rs 5 lakh on each of them. 
 
 
