PUNE: Tour operators have registered a 10-20% rise in the number of travellers from the city to Dubai this summer — a departure from the notion that the hot months are not the coolest time to visit the desert city. 

 Dubai is often not explored in summer and around the holy month of Ramzan, the operators said. But this summer has a different story. 
 
 
  
 
 
 “We have seen a nearly 18% rise in demand from Pune and its surrounding cities in the summer of 2018 from last year. Dubai is certainly hot during summer because of its geography, mainly the deserts. At the same time, the city is mostly air-conditioned and is cheaper for the tourists during summer,” said  , co- founder of  .
 
 “Most hotels in Dubai are offering 50% discounts this season. And contrary to pre-conceived notions, most of the hotels serve alcohol during the period,” he added.
 
 Sources in online travel company Cleartrip said the Middle East continued to be one of the most important regions in terms of booking volume. “Nearly 20% of the total bookings are for the region. With the shopping arcades and indoor attractions being fully air-conditioned, Dubai is seen as a 365-day destination. It retains its number one spot in the list of Top 10 international destinations that Indians are travelling to this summer,” an official said.
 
 “We are also noticing the emergence of Australia, New Zealand and   in terms of the regions that travellers are heading out to. These places are registering an over 125% year-on-year growth,” he added. 
 
 Yatra.com chief operating officer (business to consumer) Sharat Dhall said, “Though the best time to visit Dubai is winter, tourism is fast picking up in summer as well. Compared to last summer, we have witnessed an 11% increase in booking enquiries to Dubai this time.”
 
 Varun Chadha, chief operating officer, Tirun (India Representative for Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd) said, the company has booked 17% less passengers from Maharashtra for   in 2018 than last year.
 
 
