NOIDA: City Golfers   Handicap Category A (0-17) and   - Handicap Category B (18-24) qualified for the   on day 1 of the Noida leg qualifier held at the Jaypee Greens   Resort. Rishab and Sushil clinched the first two qualification spots available from the leg by carding a nett. score of 71.8 and 72.6 respectively. The MercedesTrophy 2018 has so far seen 39 qualifiers including today who will be competing in the National Finals to be played at the Oxford Golf Resort in Pune from 4-6 April 2018.

 Speaking on his win CAT A winner Rishab Mann said, “It is a lovely feeling to become a winner today. It is a lovely tournament hosted by Mercedes.
 
 Commenting on the qualification CAT B winner Sushil Gupta said, “ It is my first national finals and I am delighted. I do play at the Jaypee Greens regularly but today I was competing at the course after a considerable gap. So really happy with the way the course played today despite the heavy breeze.”
 
 The best Gross Winner of the day was Pulastya Sachdev with an excellent round of 80 and there were a host of other prizes on offer to be won on the day.
 
 Prominent winners included Anuj Khanna who won the Ballantine’s Long Drive Challenge with a drive of 250 yards. Rahul Rai won the Mercedes-Benz Closest to Pin contest on hole no. 1 by landing the ball at 1 ft. from the pin. In the Mercedes – Benz Closest to Pin in Two Shots, Atul Arora landed the ball at 5.6 ft. from the pin to win the contest on hole no. 1. Amit Kashyap won the Mercedes-Benz Straightest Drive contest on hole no. 11 by landing the ball at 2 inch from the line.
 
 The format of play was Double Peoria. This unique format of adjusting handicaps of players levels the playing field enabling golfers to have a greater chance of qualifying for the National Finals.
 
 A total of 121 golfers competed on Day 1 of MercedesTrophy Noida leg. The second day of the qualifiers will see a set of 120 golfers set to compete for the two qualification spots available on Day 2. This year’s MercedesTrophy will host 27 days of golf across 12 Indian cities. Pune will also host the national finals at the Oxford Golf Resort between 4th and 6th April 2018.
 
 This year for the first time, Mercedes-Benz’s global charity partner– Laureus Sport for Good Foundation is also associated with the tournament to raise funds for its programmes in India. While participants can donate online or on-ground at the tournament venue, Mercedes-Benz India will donate an equal amount to match the funds raised from participants.
 
 Globally, MercedesTrophy witnesses participation of approximately 60,000 golfers from across 60 countries battling it out for the top prize, making it one of the world’s largest and most coveted sporting events.
 
 The 18th edition of the MercedesTrophy after the Noida qualifiers will travel to Jaipur as the last leg of the 12 city qualifiers. Forty-five winners will be selected from the qualifiers for the National Finals. The qualifiers end on March 11, 2018 in Jaipur.
 
 Three winners of the National Finals will then compete against those from tournaments played in 60 countries all over the world in the 29th edition of the MercedesTrophy World Final to be held in Stuttgart, Germany. Mercedes-Benz is also providing an opportunity for beginners to learn golf through their Golf Clinic program.
 
 
