LUCKNOW: The spurt in   across the city is a collective failure of  , the health department and the public. Despite so many cases of   and   reported every year,   has been inactive in launching preventive measures ahead of the mosquito breeding season. 

 According to the recommendations of the technical advisory committee (TAC) formed after the high court's directives, fogging should have begun in January. However, in Lucknow, fogging began three months late-in April-and even that is limited to select areas. The committee had officials from various medical institutions and organisations related to vector-borne disease control. The biggest source of mosquitoes is choked drains brimming with garbage. There are 26 big drains and about 1,800km of smaller drains in Lucknow around houses to help channelize sludge to the treatment plant. Their cleaning should have begun two months ago but till date, drains are choked and a single spell of rain is enough to spill sludge on to the roads.
 
 LMC gets Rs 15 crore for fogging each year
 
 Water stagnated in these drains adds to the number of mosquitoes. The failed garbage disposal system leads to spilling of garbage, adding to the mosquito menace. In the evenings, it is difficult to even walk on certain roads because of mosquitoes hovering around garbage dumps.
 
 Reeta Singh of Aliganj said, “On any main road in Gole Market, Rahimnagar, Puraniya or Patrakarpuram, swarms of mosquitoes attack you in any open place.”
 
 LMC has failed to create enough awareness among the public about preventive measures against mosquitoes. One can easily locate coolers, bucket, utensils and open tanks in houses and government offices which give fertile climate to mosquitoes. Every year, LMC is given around Rs 15 crore for fogging but hardly any budget is kept for awareness.
 
 Of late, channelisation of the Gomti and incomplete cleaning of the river are also contributing to the spurt of mosquitoes. The growth of algae, hyacinth and froth on the river bed are feeding mosquitoes.
 
 Surrounding localities like Gomtinagar, Dalibagh, Jopling Road, Prag Narain Road and Butler Palace Colony are grappling with mosquito bites and sleepless nights.
 
 
 
