Even as the political temperature in Karnataka is hotting up there is an equally significant factor at work in the state’s rural constituencies. In several districts, people are no longer seeing agriculture as their main occupation. Some of them are able to find opportunities outside their villages but there are a significant number of those who have left agriculture but remain as voters in villages. And as they change occupations so do their demands from politicians.

 The most striking aspect of this change is the shift from irrigation-based politics to education-based politics. The most dramatic decline in the share of workers in agriculture is undoubtedly in the old district of   which has now been split to create Udupi. These districts have had a long tradition of education enabling their workers to migrate both within the country and outside. As the demand for education grew, these districts pioneered private educational institutions. As these institutions mobilised their caste or community to grow, they contributed to the rise and consolidation of community-based politics. Indeed, the intensity of this politics has often become extremely communally sensitive and led to violent communal conflicts.
 
 The more interesting shift from irrigation politics to education politics has occurred in most of the districts of Old Mysore. In the contiguous districts of Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, Chikkaballapura, Kolar, Mandya, Mysuru, Hassan and Ramanagara, at least 10% of the workers in agriculture in 2001 had found other occupations by 2011. And this proportion would only have grown since the beginning of this decade.
 
  
  
 
 The educational institutions in this region are, however, not as broad- based as those in coastal Karnataka. While this region boasts of several important institutions of higher education in Bengaluru and Mysuru, it does not have the spread of rural education that can be tapped by farming families seeking to move out of agriculture. There is thus a constituency for politicians who give high priority to school education in this region.
 
 The politician who has arguably done the most to tap this change is CP Yogeshwar in Channapatna of Ramanagara district. As part of the Cauvery basin, this constituency was heavily influenced by irrigation politics and quite beholden to HD Deve Gowda and his JD(S). But as farmers began to move out of agriculture and demanded education Yogeshwar positioned himself as the champion of rural schools.
 
 This enabled him to win even from a party that was unknown in the region,  , and this time round as a member of BJP, he is seen to be so formidable that JD(S) has had to put up former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy against him.
 
 The move away from agriculture continues as we move to the northwest or Bombay Karnataka, even if the extent is a little less than the massive transformation in the coastal districts and some of the Old Mysore districts. This shift from the politics of irrigation to that of education can add an additional potency to the Lingayat issue in next month’s elections. The Lingayat mutts have had a long tradition of creating and supporting educational institutions. As the demand for education grows so will the influence of these mutts. Whether this influence leans towards those seeking a separate religion status or those seeking to remain within Hinduism could have an effect on the way Bombay Karnataka votes.
 
 None of this is to suggest that the movement away from agriculture is uniform across the state. The much poorer northeast districts of Karnataka are seeing an increase in the number of workers in agriculture, possibly due to the absence of non-agricultural options. The limited irrigation possibilities in this region preclude the rise of widespread irrigation politics, but there remains room for more dryland sensitive agricultural policies. And the   will be hoping that its Krishi Bhagya and the championing of millets will pay it dividends next month.
 
 For now, in addition to looking at caste arithmetic, it may be time to look at the politics of arithmetic itself.
 
 (
 
 
