This year's IPL has once again demonstrated how skippers play an important role in their team's fortunes. The teams that are at the top of the table have captains who are doing well themselves and thus taking their teammates along with them. The teams at the bottom have leaders who just haven't been able to raise the flag for themselves or the team and are thus languishing at the bottom of the table.
 
 
 At the top is Sunrisers and if there was any confirmation of how a captain can take the team forward with his own performances it is  . He is not only scoring runs but leading with elan and a calm that maybe envied even by a certain 'captain cool'. Even when he dropped   in their game against the Royal Challengers he displayed little emotion, left no hangover of the miss and was moving fielders next ball. Kohli's luck ran out when Yusuf Pathan took a stunning catch to get rid of the Bangalore skipper, who looked determined to take his team to a win. Despite having a batting line-up that is perhaps the envy of other teams, the Bangalore boys have faltered while chasing, once again showing that in the T20 format it's the runs you get while under the pressure of an asking rate that's more crucial than the ones scored batting first. Kohli also could be missing having someone like MSD by his side and Shastri and Bangar in the dug out to help him make those field placements and bowling changes that win matches for India.
 
  
  
 And what about  . He has shown why he is such a tremendous cricketer and now given the responsibility, a fine leader too. He has always been a player who applies a lot of thought to his cricket and one not afraid to ask questions in order to get better. The latter quality could well have come in the way of getting the vice-captaincy of the national team but it's this very quality that sees him get better with every game. Which player would try bowling leg-spin and do it so well despite the wrist position being totally opposite of his regular off-spinners.
 
 Mumbai do well when Rohit gets runs for them, he leads assertively and confidently. They have come back well and if they can put it across to Kolkata who also has a fine skipper then they give themselves a very good chance of qualifying to defend their title.
 
