CHENNAI : The ruling   is said to be seriously considering an option to increase the number of party districts in the state to strengthen it at the ground level and make it organizationally more efficient. The move is also being seen as a counter measure to nullify the action of rebel party leader and independent   from R K Nagar, T T V Dhinakaran.

 The thinking within the party is to consider having a party district for every 3 assembly segments in the state. With   having 234 assembly segments, the idea is to have at least 70 party districts with a few such districts comprising of 4 assembly segments, thereby enhancing the efficiency of the party machinery. The party has already convened a high-level meet of state-level office bearers and district secretaries on February 2.
 
 It has been a little over five months since the EPS & OPS factions merged and questions keep rising about accommodating people from the OPS faction too in key party posts. On the other, after the R K Nagar bypoll result, the party leadership (EPS & OPS) has been busy expelling supporters of TTV, including district level office bearers, and close to 2,000 people removed from the party over the past month. “The party is now seriously considering the option to increase the number of districts to not only accommodate disgruntled leaders, but also to replace posts lying vacant on account of recent expulsions,” an AIADMK source, privy to the development, said.
 
 “There are about 50 districts in the party. The idea now is to expand this to about 70, thereby creating 20 additional districts. That not only paves way for 20 new district secretaries, but with each secretary to have a team of 7 district level office bearers, it will create a core team of 140. With the party having about 14 wings, catering to various sections of the party, this will result in offering posts to around 1,500 party people in each district,” the source pointed out.
 
 “There have been suggestions from various party wings on the need to expand the number of districts, as done by parties like   and BJP among others. This has come up for discussions in the party’s consultative meetings too,” senior party leader and spokesman, C   told  . “However, such a suggestion has been in discussion since Amma times. Only thing, this has picked up speed now,” he added.
 
 According to him, it has been genuinely felt that a party district is quite a large area. For improved efficiency, the suggestion was to create more party units. “The party is looking at several options before deciding on anything. Over the next month or so, there could be more clarity on issues relating to the organizational structure of the party,” Ponnaiyan said.
 
 Ends/dg
 
 
