New Delhi: A group comprising alumni of Aligarh Muslim University,  ,   and others demanded a national policy on Partition to fix blame on those responsible. 

 Calling itself Minority University’s Alumni Front, the group said the government should come out with a white paper on it so there is clarity about the history of Partition to decide “whose portraits are to be removed”. 
 
 The members claimed the recent mischief at   where students clashed with right-wing activists, and the ruckus at Jamia, were attempts to destroy minority institutions. Basir Ahmed Khan of the group said the Jinnah portrait row was a diversionary tactic keeping in mind the forthcoming Kairana bypolls and Karnataka elections. 
 
 “The portrait has been there for last 80 years. It is a part of history and no one can change it,” said Khan, the former pro-vice chancellor of Ignou and former president of AMU Students’ Union.
 
 Alluding to Karachi Chamber of Commerce’s foundation stone, which still holds the name of Mahatma Gandhi, Khan opined that leaders of both the countries should be respected as they are part of history.
 
 He also said that Pakistan came into being by a tripartite pact, but only Jinnah is being blamed for it. 
 
 “During the Bangladesh (1971) situation, there was a meeting of the UN Security Council in New York. There the foreign minister of India Sardar Swaran Singh said, ‘Pakistan came into existence by virtue of a pact among three parties’—the British government, Indian National Congress and All India Muslim League,” said Khan.
 
 Irfan Ullah, ex-president of AMUSU, added that the worst sufferers of Partition were the minorities. 
 
 “On the one hand the PM says that he wants to see Muslims with the Koran and the computer in their hands, but at the same time there is an attempt to close down minority institutions by taking away our minority character,” Khan said.
 
 The alumni members demanded that the HRD ministry issue a statement and the President, who is also the visitor of the university, intervene and support the minority status of the institution.
 
 
