TRICHY: A day after The Times of India carried a report on unsafe and banned activities that keep the threats alive for the rigidity of   in   temple in Srirangam, Hindu Religious & Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) department has erected barriers in the exit way of Rajagopuram to prevent the entry of motorised vehicles particularly auto rickshaws. 

 Welcoming the move, residents of Srirangam have also asked the authorities to act tough against the encroachments in and around the temple complex affecting the architectural beauty of the 156 acres complex. 
 
 Even as seven years passed since an expert committee, including structural engineering experts from IIT-Madras, inspected the Rajagopuram after the stone structure developed cracks in 2010, several suggestions recommended by the committee to keep the structure safe were flouted both by authorities and public. The tallest temple tower in south Asia was under constant threat from the movement of heavy vehicles close to the structure and even auto-rickshaws that were commuting through the Rajagopuram entrance. 
 
 Besides the vibrations caused by vehicles, construction activities which should not happen within 40 metre radius of Rajagopuram had been taking place and so were the bursting of crackers. These activities have been banned by HR&CE and district administration within 40 metre radius of Rajagopuram. As TOI carried a report on the banned activities continuing around the 13 tier structure that was completed and consecrated in 1987, HR&CE officials said that barriers were placed in the gateways of Rajagopuram to prevent motorised vehicles from entering.
 
 “The rapid movement of two-wheeler through the Rajagopuram was a menace among devotees walking on foot to the temple. To ensure their safety and also that of Rajagopuram, we have placed barriers which would prohibit the movement of motorised vehicles,” said P Jayaraman, HR&CE joint-commissioner of the temple. From now on, motorists have been told to access the   and   though alternative routes such as via Thiruvadi Street or via Devi Street. 
 
 Welcoming the move, T Santhanakrishnan, a resident of Srirangam sought the authorities to show equal efforts and emphasise in removing the encroachments plaguing the safety and beauty of the Rajagopuram.
 
 
