CHANDIGARH: A bevy of colours, performances, dance and glamour marked the the first edition of Chandigarh Urban Festival 2018 (CUF-18) that was held at the Open Hand Monument on Sunday.

 The event was organised by ACT, a group of city-based architects in association with Chandigarh department of public relations. 
 
 The event, which was celebrated in festive spirit and was brought together by a group of twenty senior architects and citizens from the city, saw a refreshing blast of creativity and colour, as more than 300 city residents from different walks of life participated in a first of its kind ‘Open Hand March’, that was flagged off from Matka Chowk by Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore amid a sonorous roar of dhols and drums, which concluded at 6pm at the compound of the Tourist Information Centre, located just a stone’s throw away from the Capitol Complex and the Punjab and Haryana high court. 
 
 The walk was attended by architects, school and college students, senior citizens, foreign tourists among others who were seen dressed in colourful attires, face masks, head-gears, while immersed in the a deep sense of merriment and happiness while swaying to the beats of dhols (Indian drums), celebrating the all-accepting and all-receiving spirit of the city. The Open Hand March was a tribute to the real spirit of Chandigarh, symbolic of ‘open to give and open to receive’. 
 
 “This road beginning from Matka Chowk till the Tourist Information Centre was originally called ‘Ceremonial Road’ in the original plan of the city, designed under Le Corbusier. Chandigarh is a city of very nice and caring citizens, but unfortunately they don’t know much about the northern part (high court, Open Hand and Capitol Complex) of the city. Corbusier had designed this part of the city keeping in mind the openness of this city, but none of that openness is seen translated into the everyday activities of the city. Hence, we architects decided to get together and bring together the residents of the city to help them realise and make some noise about the fact that Capitol Complex has been given the World Heritage status, which is a big deal, but no one knows about it. The last two chief architects have worked really hard to do this,” said Bandana Singh (52), a senior architect living in the city for the last 28 years who is also a member of ACT. 
 
 “The Open Hand compound and the area before that was actually designed as the People’s Plaza where people could walk openly and freely and discuss anything with democracy and freedom by Corbusier, because that is what the open hand symbolises but unfortunately, this entire place has been blanketed with so much security that people don’t know about this anymore and we want to change that. Events like these should be a regular affair here and we want to hold this every year," said Dr Prabhjot Kaur, Senior Architect and a member of ACT.
 
 “We wanted to create a carnival of fusion, so we have a blend of folk and new age. We want to put souls back into the city and make sure this carnival is performed every year,” said another architect from the group.
 
 A special band of the 6 Dogra Battalion, performed patriotic songs like ‘Ye Bharat Desh Hai Mera’ with drums and bagpipes at the flag-off ceremony. 
 
 A total of 20 differently-abled members from Chandigarh Spinal Rehab on wheelchairs, 30 students from Maulana University, 80 students from IKG-PTU, Mohali, 26 students from Post Graduate Government College 42, 15 members from Kerala Bhawan, Mohali, 13 girls and 15 boys from scouts of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 7, along with 40 students from Chitkara University, Rajpura were present in solidarity wearing special T-shirts while holding flags and banners. 
 
 Artist performed Kalbeliya and Rajasthani folk dances, followed by a special performance of Gutka and Sikh martial arts by 15 students from DSM Academy, Pinjore. This was followed by an energetic Punjabi folk performance by the college students in Bhangra, Giddha with traditional musical instruments and a Bollywood dance fusion by a city-based dance troupe. Uttarakhandi folk dance and music performance by a group from Uttarakhand also mesmerised the audience. The event concluded with a soulful rendition of Sufi numbers like ‘Allah Hu’ and Damadum Mast Kalandar by Amit and Deepak Sufi Group, reverberating all around prompting people to sway, whistle and dance. 
 
 Numerous rickshaws and carriages were also decorated with balloons, cardboard designed in the shape of the open hand and flowers reading slogans. People dressed as clowns, in red capes, girls dressed as superwoman and a man dressed as Ravana was also dolled up a carriage pulled by horses.
 
 Governor of Punjab V P Singh Badnore said, “I think, this is a humble beginning. From here on, such fests should be made bigger and people like Zubin Mehta, Yami Gautam and Ayushman Khurana should be called. I will support it.”
 
 The evening concluded with an informal dance party with a DJ.
 
 Lanterns light up the sky
 
 About 1,000 lanterns, each of which cost Rs 100, were released by hundred volunteers who were being trained for coordination and synchronisation for a few days by Ajay Sharma, one of the ACT members. Speaking to TOI, he said, “This has never been done before and this is a sight to behold. Capitol Complex has been given the World Heritage status which is huge. We have to do something that matches that stature. I have a feeling people will remember his sight. This is an ode to this beautiful city.” 
 
 
