LUDHIANA: Union government’s Budget, the last for the NDA government in this tenure may have disappointed the middle class but has raised hopes of farmers. The Finance Minister’s announcement for spending 20 billion for developing agriculture market and the announcement of MSP are some of the initiatives wich experts feel would go a long way in giving an impetus to the farming. Their representatives however caution that the government will have to implement the measures in latter and spirit. 

 SS Johal, Agriculture expert said, “It is a good budget for agriculture and farmers. The Finance Minister has announced Minimum Support Price (MSP) 1.5 times the cost of produce for farmers. Though it would help the large scale farmers and not the small ones but still it is good. Besides the E-market and food parks are really good initiative. The plan of spending Rs 20 billion for developing agricultural market and Grameen Agriculture market in which the farmers would sell directly to buyers – both are appreciable steps.” 
 
 The Vice Chancellor of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Baldev Singh Dhillon, “It is a very good budget for agriculture and farmers. In this years’ budget the government is working to get farmers better price for their products. The increase in MSP, investment of Rs 14 billion to food processing industry, promotion of agricultural export, developing agricultural markets are defiantly beneficial.” 
 
 Jitender Singh Sandhu a local agriculturist, who is part of a project run by Sarabah Nagar Gurdwara against farmers’ sucide said overall the measures like MSP and more credit to farmers have been good initiatives which would help farmers. “But the measures should be implemented on the ground. In fact it’s high time the governmen realised that the debt waiver to farmers is no no solution and it only works as patch work. Permanent solution needs to be looked into so as to make farming more profitable. 
 
  former   said that the union goverment’s intention of implmenting recommendations of   commission report, which stresses that the farmers should gain 50% over the input cost, can prove to be a game changer. “This once implemented would ensure that the farmers survive and the sector starts witnessing growth,” he said. 
 
 
