In the last decade, the Tricity cops solved many cases of murder, kidnapping, extortion, and rape after a few sleepless nights. But with all their intelligence, hard work, and luck, they have failed to solve a few mysteries in years—like who killed Airtel deputy general manager ( )   and why.

 The man was shot from a pointblank range on March 12, 2009, at the Phase VIII Dussehra Ground in  . He fought for his life for eight days. On March 12, 2009, someone had called him over mobile phone to a hospital in Phase VIII. He told his brotherin-law, Sandeep, about the call and, unaware of what waited for them, they left for the spot in separate vehicles. The cops gathered from Sandeep’s polygraph test at the Directorate of Forensic Science in Gandhinagar, Gujarat, that he had reached the venue a few minutes before Sameer, who had parked his car 100 metres from his.
 
 The plan was that when the caller arrived, Sameer would signal Sandeep by flashing the headlights of his car. A few minutes later, he rang up Sameer and told him to leave, but he insisted on staying. When tried calling his brotherin-law again, no one answered. He saw a car speeding past Sameer’s Santro, at which he ran up to Sameer’s car, knocked at the door, and found him unconscious inside. Sameer had been shot in the head.
 
 Sandeep moved him to Fortis Hospital, where Airtel officer died after eight days. Forensic examination of his car yielded no clue. Sandeep revealed during the polygraph test that the marriage of his sister was on the rocks. But her interrogation produced no result. She worked at Fortis. Police say there were a few contradictions in Sameer’s statement, regarding the timing and the sequence of events.
 
 
 
 The cops zeroed in on a certain official of Fortis Hospital. He was the last one to call Sameer. When they asked a colleague of Sameer’s wife at Fotis about who used the telephone extension from which this call was made, he said that it was a common extension and anybody could use it. He also claimed he had never met Sameer and his relationship with his wife was just professional.
 
 
 
 After groping in the dark for 18 months, the Mohali police claimed to be on the verge of cracking the case. A source had told them that an Indonesian NRI had developed some interest in Sameer’s wife and he had received a threatening email from the hospital’s server.
 
 
 
 On March 20, 2009, the cops found evidence of two people who had called Sameer from the official mobile phone of Fortis hospital. The first had called up Sameer on March 10 (at 6.52 pm) and the second on March 12 (at 6.37 pm), from the same number. “We cannot comment on these leads but we are trying to explore all angles,” the investigation officer had then said.
 
 
 
 A police sketch of the suspect was also released after questioning and verification of hospital workers who claimed to have spotted two outsiders near the office telephone from which the call was made to Sameer. The caller and the killer remain a mystery.
 
