SERAMPORE: The   reopened on Wednesday with much   in the presence of Bengal’s who’s who and  ,  ,  , Iceland and Sweden. However, uncertainty looms over its future as the ‘Serampore Initiative’ of the  , under which it was restored, comes to an end this year.

 Several other buildings, such as the South Gate, the main gate of the Serampore court, and the land registry building, have also been restored as part of the six-year initiative to conserve Serampore’s Danish heritage.
 
 NMD architect Flemming Aalund, who came to Serampore in 2008 with historianarchitect Simon Rasten to study the crumbling structures, said, “Restoration is a continuous process. We hope it doesn’t come to agradual end after the   finishes its term.”
 
 Aalund’s apprehension is not unfounded given that the project is being linked to tourism potentials. “Tourists may not travel 25km from Kolkata to spend a night in a disharmonious setting. You must have proper ambience. Only then will ‘adaptive reuse’ make sense,” an architect at the tavern on Wednesday said.
 
 He was referring to the “ugly” constructions that have ruined the ambience.
 
 Aalund said, “We have a shared history, but it’s the Bengal government’s property now.” Home secretary Atri Bhattacharya is confident the state would properly maintain the property. State heritage commission chairman Suvaprasanna said, “We can’t let the effort go waste. We’ll surely take over where the Serampore Initiative ends,” he said.
 
 Danish ambassador Peter Taksoe-Jensen said, “The bridges we are building between Denmark and Serampore must remain.” The NMD curator and project head of Serampore Initiative, Bente Wolff, agreed. “Rapid urban development in Kolkata’s suburbs is threatening the identity of these old trading towns,” he said. Before the tavern was inaugurated, the four envoys of Nordic nations — Peter Taksøe-Jensen (Denmark), Nils Ragnar Kamsvåg (Norway), Nina Vaskunlahti (Finland), Thorir Ibsen (Iceland) — and Thevesa Ildefonso (wife of Swedish ambassador Klas Molin) travelled in a WBTDC catamaran from Kolkata to Serampore.
 
