MYSURU: With backing from the   growing for the Congress after the Siddaramaiah-led government accorded it  , leaders of the JD(S) and BJP have been in a tizzy. Both parties are now knocking on the doors of Lingayat mutts to garner support.

 H D Kumaraswamy, JD(S) state president and former chief minister, visited Suttur mutt, a prominent Lingayat mutt near Chamundi Hills, and held discussions with mutt seer, Shivarathri Deshikendra swami, on Wednesday. He emerged in a belligerent mood from the mutt, insisting that the JD(S) will emerge victorious in a minimum five of the 11 seats in Mysuru. He also lambasted chief minister Siddaramaiah.
 
 “Siddaramaiah had claimed that JD(S) will win only about 25 seats in the entire state,” Kumaraswamy said. “But I tell you that JD(S) will win 40% of those seats in Mysuru alone. The voters of the district are waiting to teach Siddaramaiah a lesson.”
 
 Kumaraswamy claimed JD(S) will win all the seven constituencies each in Hassan and Mandya districts. He suggested that he could contest from two constituencies — Ramanagara and neighbouring Channapatna. He is the incumbent MLA from Ramanagara. Sources say he has arrived at an understanding with energy minister D K Shivakumar to contest from Channapatna with the intention of defeating BJP’s C P Yogeshwar. “I may contest from two constituencies,” Kumaraswamy said. “Apart from Ramanagara, I will chose another constituency from the Old Mysuru region. Siddaramaiah has yet to finalize from which constituency he will contest. He has got close confidant and IPS officer M Kempaiah to survey Varuna, Chamundeshwari and Narashimaraja constituencies. I request the Election Commission to keep an eye on the movements of Kempaiah as Siddaramaiah has entrusted him with the responsibility of distributing money to voters. In the byelection, Kempaiah transported cash in police vehicles.”
 
 Reacting to Amit Shah’s inadvertent gaffe where he called Yeddyurappa’s government the most corrupt, Kumaraswamy said Shah had “spoken the truth and from his heart”.
 
 
