CHENNAI/TUTICORIN: Even as the death toll in police firing on anti-Sterlite protesters in   went up to 13 on Thursday, Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami affirmed that police had followed procedures as per law before opening fire. Sporadic violence was reported in Tuticorin, which was relatively calmer on Thursday though there was tension in several areas.

 
 Speaking to reporters at the secretariat, the CM blamed opposition parties and anti-social elements for instigating the violence. “Section 144 of the CrPC had been promulgated in Tuticorin to prevent violence. But some opposition parties and anti-social elements were instigating innocent people to pressure the government and give us a bad name,” he said.
 
 In a related development, the Madras high court refused to entertain the state government’s appeal against its order asking the government to preserve the bodies of the protesters killed in police firing.
 
 Palaniswami said he and senior cabinet colleagues had been closely watching the developments in Tuticorin. “We were sitting in the secretariat on that day and watching the happenings in Tuticorin on TV channels. Police followed all steps as per law before resorting to firing. It was done in self-defence,” he said.
 
 The CM said he could not visit Tuticorin as Section 144 was in force. “I will not violate prohibitory orders like (M K) Stalin or Kamal (Haasan) did,” he said. Stalin and MNM leader Haasan have been booked for violating ban orders and visiting the Tuticorin hospital and interacting with reporters.
 
 Claiming that his government was always with the people, the CM said the government was taking all steps to shut down operations at the Sterlite factory in Tuticorin. “When   was chief minister in 2013, the government disconnected the power connection to Sterlite. But the company approached the   and got a favourable order to get back power connection with some conditions,” he said.
 
 Following this, the government appealed against the   order in the  , which is still pending, Palaniswami said. The company filed an application to renew its registration with the   but it was denied. On Thursday, power supply to the company was cut. “The company cannot continue to function without permission from the TNPCB,” the CM said. “We are only following all the steps taken by the government under Jayalalithaa. We have so far held 14 meetings with the protesters since their agitations against the company started,” he added.
 
 Palaniswami said the government is taking all steps through courts to close the plant in Tuticorin. After taking a few questions, the chief minister hurriedly left.
 
 In Tuticorin, monitoring officer and agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the situation was less tense on Thursday compared to the past two days. With Selvasekar (42) of Sawyerpuram dying of injuries sustained in Tuesday’s violence, the death toll has gone up to 13.
 
 Speaking to reporters, Bedi said tension was easing in the town with traffic resuming and some shops functioning. Except for some minor violence, like burning of a couple of two-wheelers, no untoward incident was reported. The new collector, Sandeep Nanduri, and SP Murali Lamba would work closely with other officials to restore normalcy in the district, he said.
 
 Fifteen SPs, four DIGs, four IGs and one ADGP (law and order) have been deployed in the city to restore normalcy and people are urged to cooperate with them, he said.
 
 Sixty Tamil Nadu commandos reached Tuticorin on Thursday evening and have been deployed in Anna Nagar, which is one of the most sensitive areas where minor incidents of violence continued to take place.
 
 Police continued their arrests, and some youth were brought to the government hospital for treatment before being taken away. The parents of some of them were seen wailing outside the hospital claiming that their children were innocent.
 
 
