Ludhiana: The Punjab Sports department will open a special coaching centre for the visually impaired, as well as disabled athletes from across the district in the multi-purpose hall of the Guru Nanak Stadium. This has come days after ‘Ludhiana Times of India’ reported the plight of local blind athletes who took part in the recently concluded National Blind Athletic Meet. With this, players can get the latest coaching techniques from well-qualified government coaches to fulfil their ambitions in the sports field.

 Confirming the development, the Punjab Sports Department deputy director Surjit Singh said: “The state sports minister has given a direction to all district sports officers to make proper arrangements for blind as well para athletes to start a special training centre in all districts of Punjab. In the new centre, well-qualified government coaches would be roped in to provide world-class training to blind or para athletes. The objective is to make them professional sportspersons so that they are groomed and prepared to compete with national and international players.”
 
 He added that the state sports minister had asked officials concerned to regularly monitor these training centres to ensure that results are delivered. Kartar Singh Sahmbay, DSO (district sports officer) said that for Ludhiana, the centre would be opened in the premises of the Guru Nanak Stadium. Notably the decision comes nearly weeks after TOI had reported about the plight of blind as well para athletes.
 
 Sahambay said a meeting had been conducted with some vocational rehabilitation training institutes running across the district to make them aware about the decision. Officials mentioned that such centres were a long pending demand from visually impaired players. The sports department also made an appeal to all blind and para athletes to be a part of the initiative and contact senior officials in case they needed any kind of help.
 
 Vocational Rehabilitation Training Centre (Haibowal) in-charge Ravi said: “This initiative is likely to bring a big turnaround by providing opportunities to blind athletes. There are several aspiring sportspersons in our centre who want to perform sports activities professionally, and this would help them fulfil their dream to become an international player.
 
 Nazia, a local visually impaired athlete who secured 17 medals in the past several national blind meets and wants to become an international player, added: “I will soon join this training centre as government coaches are well trained, and they provide us the latest techniques to compete with other state players. It’s really commendable, and aspirants like me would greatly benefit from this decision.”
 
 TOI had carried a story on January 16, mentioning about the achievements of Nazia, and adding how she was keen to open training centres for challenged players like herself, so that they get proper training.
 
 
