The stage looks set for cockfights at various arenas in the coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh, particularly after the Supreme Court's latest order on the issue on Friday, just two days before Sankranti. The apex court refused to vacate its earlier order, as per which police can take action against cockfight organisers only if knives are tied to roosters' limbs or betting takes place. 

 Even before the apex court's decision, organisers and punters in coastal Andhra, especially from Krishna, Guntur and the two Godavari districts, had begun preparing the arenas. They allegedly even held auctions for liquor, gambling and other games such as   where money is involved.
 
 It may be recalled that   leader Raghurama Krishnam Raju had approached the Supreme Court against the  's order calling for a complete ban on cockfights in the state. But the apex court had asked the petitioner to approach the high court for a modification of its earlier order.
 
 Now, this Sankranti, punters expect the betting amount to cross 700 crore as big businessmen, especially aqua farmers, politicians and celebrities are likely to witness the cockfights. Notes of 2,000 denomination will be in big demand at the major arenas due to the huge amounts at stake. 
 
 East Godavari SP Vishal Gunnit told TOI they have already registered 128 cases against punters and organisers. "Our men are keeping a close watch on known cockfight arenas and organisers and also on the new arenas likely to spring up this year. We have already served notices on the organisers of old and notorious arenas. Our focus will mainly be on Konaseema area, where cockfights are regular during festival days," he said. 
 
 
  
  
 
 According to sources, big arenas in Konaseema such as   in Mummadivaram constituency, Godilanka in Allavaram mandal and surroundings of Vempa, Bhimavaram, Palakollu, Narsapuram, Tanuku and Tadepalligudem will witness more flow of liquor and bets.
 
 A senior cop from East Godavari said the arena at Muramalla is like a stadium with all kinds of facilities for spectators. The arena is apparently backed by a ruling party politician, sources said. "We do not have the power to stop such kind of gathering, which will be in thousands. Once you enter the arena, you cannot come out easily. We will try our best to stop cockfights that violate the court order, but it will be near impossible for us to stop arenas backed by heavyweights of the ruling or opposition parties," he said.
 
 Organisers also use various tactics to hoodwink cops. For instance, a big arena at Kotturu in   assembly constituency was destroyed by cops with the help of tractors. But the organisers had reportedly shown the arrangements at one place while preparing the actual arena at another venue. 
 
 
