TRICHY: The villages wear a festive look and the stage is all set for the gala event. In a few days, jallikattu bulls would leap through the vadivasal, the narrow opening leading to the arena, as dozens of tamers try to rein them in. With the legal hurdles being cleared for holding the traditional sport, the district administration is leaving no stone unturned to ensure that the safety parameters laid for the event's conduct are being followed. The idea is to ensure that both the men and animals are safe. In   village which is to host jallikattu after a gap of three years, the safety arrangements are boring big holes in the organizers’ pockets.

 “Rs 10 lakh has been spent to ensure that all guidelines are strictly being adhered to,” says jallikattu organiser at the village, S Raja. According to him, farmers who were already bearing the brunt of failed crops were footing the bill of the traditional sport too. A sections of organizers had made a representation to the district collector seeking help to meet the cost but there wasn’t any positive response. Most of the expenses are incurred for raising barricades, VIP gallery and roofed path for the bulls lined up outside the vadivasal until they make the entry. As many as 600 bull tamers have registered for the event scheduled for January 15. 
 
 Members of Sri Narkadal Ilaignar Peravai said that jallikattu would be held from 9 am till 3 pm. Tamers would be allowed in four batches of 150 members each who will get 90 minutes to tame the bulls. “For the first time, a motorcycle would be rewarded to the bull tamer who tames the most number of bulls,” said S Raja. The rewards include 100 ranger bicycles, 50   coins, 25 almirahs to be given to bull tamers and owners of bulls that go untamed. A total of 500 bulls have already registered for the event in this year’s jallikattu. It was in 2014 that the village witnessed jallikattu before. 
 
 In January 2016, when the   once again struck down the Centre’s notification on jallikattu, most of the preparatory works were on the verge of completion at Periya Suriyur village. “Nod for organizing jallikattu came only after Pongal last year. But for many decades, Periyar Suriyur has been organizing jallikattu on the second day of the Tamil month of Thai. That was why we decided not to conduct jallikattu,” said Raja. 
 
 At   in Manapparai taluk which is host Jallikattu on January 20, half of the jallikattu infrastructure has been raised. One of the organisers, M Selvaraj, said that the rules wer being tightened every year which was raising the cost of organizing the event. 
 
 Collector   along with other officials carried out inspection at the arena in Suriyur and checked whether all norms had been followed. “Unless the norms with the required infrastructure are ensured, permission will not be given to hold jalikattu,” he said adding that a total 16 places would witness jallikattu in   this year. Requests of some villages had been sent to the government for nod, he said. 
 
 “As per the new rules this year, bulls are to be checked whether they are under the influence of nicotine and cocaine,” says the state president of Veera Vilayattu Meetpu Kazhagam (a jallikattu organisation) T Rajesh. Besides, insurance for bulls were also on the cards. He said such measures would only add up to the cost and make the event more complex. 
 
 (With inputs from Deepak)
 
 
