PALANPUR: The village of   on the Gujarat-Rajasthan border — in the hilly region of Aravalli mountain range — was not even on the government map of Gujarat about four years ago. The village of about 100 huts, scattered over a radius of 10km, chiefly consists of the tribal community of  , which ekes out a living with seasonal farming and foraging in the forest.

 The community faced typical problems related to liquor consumption — a norm for the community — ranging from domestic violence to money crunch. Products such as honey were bartered for grains in nearby towns. The community was averse to even interacting with government officials. So the villagers lacked identity documents that could help them avail benefits of various government schemes.
 
 But today a number of these factors have changed, thanks to the relentless efforts of Mustu Khan, 31, a ‘Gram Shilpi,’ who has since 2012 made the village his base for bringing social transformation. Khan said that he believes in Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy of strengthening villages to bring about true development of the Indian society.
 
 A native of Pingli village near Talaja in Bhavnagar district, Khan was educated at Lokbharti, Sanosara. He then completed his Master of Social Work (MSW) from Gujarat Vidyapith. He also worked for a while with Harijan Sevak Sangh affiliated with the Sabarmati Ashram before embarking on a journey to find himself.
 
 “It perhaps started with our field visits to the tribal belt during which I became aware of the community’s problems,” Khan said. “Something stirred inside me and I decided to work at a village. After my education, I started searching for a suitable place and zeroed in on the border area of Banaskantha, where socio-economic indicators were poor.”
 
 It took Khan nearly a year to master the dialect known as ‘Dungri’ (of the hills) to earn the trust of the village residents who realized that he was there to stay. He initially started operating from a platform below a neem tree by engaging youth on livelihood, connectivity, and battling addictions.
 
 “Liquor was a major vice. I made a rule not to approach police and instead used social peer pressure,” Khan said. “I promised them to help market their honey at much better prices on two conditions — they would abstain from liquor and they would keep the honey free of any adulterants. The offer worked and today we are producing over 700kg of honey annually.”
 
 Khan’s work has now extended from under a tree to a large area housing an anganwadi (pre-primary school), a primary school offering education up to class VII, and a hostel for 30 students. The death of a villager’s wife during labour pain prompted Khan and the villagers, about three months ago, to construct a 4.5km path on the hill and another road connecting the village to Gaji, where the public distribution system (PDS) shop is located.
 
 “Our approach is not anti-establishment. We work as a link between the government and the local residents,” Khan said. “We had to fight hard for the school, anganwadi, and the road as the area is in the forest zone. We have got good officers who devised ways. We can take pride in being a fully solar village. The laying of an electric line was not possible.” Khan organized camps to help the villagers get Aadhaar cards, Antyoday ration cards, and government health insurance.
 
 But these achievements don’t come without challenges. Khan laughingly remembered how he was labelled a ‘Naxal sympathizer’ when he started talking about tribal rights. But local residents stood by him. His personal life has been impacted; he can visit his wife and child only sporadically. “My parents thought it to be a foolish idea to leave a well-paying job in Ahmedabad to live in a village so far away from ‘development’,” he said. “But I tell them that was exactly the idea.” 
 
 A number of national and international organizations including Unicef and Gandhi Research Foundation have visited the village and Khan has been awarded for his work. He says that nearby villages now approach him to replicate his work, but at the moment he wants to serve his adopted village.
 
 
 
 
 Khati Sitra does not have a panchayat despite having a sarpanch, as the panchayat of a cluster of villages sit at Khampa. The village — with 123 huts and 742 residents — has only four two-wheelers. Mobile phone network is erratic and ambulances are not reachable. Most residents commute to nearby Virampur on a jeep. The Dungri Garasiya community is known for preserving its ancient culture through song and dance performed at social events. Young girls wear full-sleeved blouses with one or two flowers stitched to them. They also embroider their names and those of their family members on the dresses and wear silver ornaments. The area is free of plastic.
 
 Keliben Ghorina and her husband Devabhai brewed liquor to earn their livelihood five years ago. Mustu Khan persuaded them to abandon the activity and start afresh for the sake of their children. The couple now collects honey and makes bowls from dried leaves for their living. “Our children are now attending the school run by Khan,” said Kaliben.
 
 Dharmi Parmar, a woman who works with the anganwadi, said that the local women have started saving Re 1 per month. “We have a deposit of over Rs 32,000 and get Rs 12,000 annually,” she said. “The savings have reduced our dependence on moneylenders for weddings, farming, and hospital expenses.” 
 
 Umed Solanki, the sarpanch of Khati Sitra village, said that the transformation is visible as there are fewer quarrels and the community is working together for betterment. “Last year during floods, we could stand on our own due to pooled-in resources. About 12 houses now have toilets and some of the villagers have also got buffaloes in government scheme,” he said.
 
 Dr Bharmal Patel, health officer in Banaskantha, said that nutrition has also increased in the village after establishing the anganwadi that today has about 60 children who get meal and milk. “Institutional deliveries to the village have also increased thanks to the raised awareness,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 
 The Gram Shilpi initiative – of which Mustu Khan is a part – was conceived by the   (CEE) in 1998-99 to provide livelihood opportunities for rural students while providing opportunities for social transformation. After its initial success, Gujarat Vidyapith joined hands with CEE to provide expertise, hand-holding and stipend to the fellows. 
 
 Atul Pandya, director of  , who initiated the programme during his stint at CEE, said that the idea was to provide opportunities to the local youths who can engage local community for betterment. “In the past two decades, 100-odd Gram Shilpis – shapers of villages – were created out of which about 10-12 are still working and have made their mark in different areas of Gujarat, especially in the tribal belt,” he said. 
 
 
