NAGPUR: Total 7 bonus marks await HSC students who appeared for chemistry paper on February 28 and attempted the four questions in which errors were noticed.

 Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of   (VJUCTA), said, “Students who attempted all these questions, even if they were wrong, will get the bonus marks.”
 
 Students complained that the printing errors meant a major confusion for them and that they should be compensated regardless of the attempt. Student   said, “I left some MCQs. The questions I studied for were not there at all. Instead, there were some questions which were out of syllabus. But I still tried to write whatever I could. I pursued some questions and had to leave some because they were obscure.”
 
 Manoj Jamdarkar, lecturer and Mohota Science College, said, “Basically, the students were taught about more basic things and were expected to apply knowledge. They were a little higher order thinking questions. But because the specific types were not given in the textbook, they have been deemed out of syllabus.”
 
 Student   said, “The first mistake I clearly remember that we were asked about the uses of third law of thermodynamics, but there was no such thing taught to us or given in the textbook. So, we got confused. I wrote the answers which were somewhat relevant to the other two laws, because skipping an entire question is not an option.”
 
 “Also, if we would have been informed about the misprint, it would surely be helpful at the time as we anyway scramble for time. I attempted everything that I could,” he said.
 
 Another student   said, “The uses of law were asked and we didn’t know the answer to it. So, I wrote the law and gave generic examples because it’s better to write something rather than leaving it blank. This definitely affected the choices as well because then the other questions become compulsory.”
 
 Rachit Walke said, “I wrote almost everything but there were some questions that seemed out of syllabus, and some were very baffling to me. I could only complete half the paper as it was very tough to pursue all the questions. I wrote whatever I knew and thought it’s better to write something than to write nothing at all, and at least expect a half mark. No corrections were offered to us, so it became all the more difficult.”
 
 
