Fano:   ( ) claimed his second stage win of   in Fano as he outsprinted World Champion   ( ) who was hampered by a crash that took the other stage favourite, Fernando Gaviria (Quick-Step Floors), out of contention with 7.5km to go.   ( ) retained the Maglia Azzurra ahead of the conclusive Individual Time Trial in San Benedetto del Tronto with a slim advantage of three seconds over Damiano Caruso (BMC Racing Team).

 
 
 Tomorrow is last stage of the race, the 10km Individual Time Trial at San Benedetto del Tronto. The first rider, Liam Bertazzo (Wilier Triestina - Selle Italia), will start at 13.15. The last rider, the Maglia Azzurra Michał Kwiatkowski (Team Sky), will start at 15.48.
 
 
 
 1 - Marcel Kittel (Team Katusha-Alpecin) 153km in 3h49’54”, average speed 39.930kph
 
 2 - Peter Sagan (Bora - Hansgrohe) s.t.
 
 3 - Maximiliano Richeze (Quick-Step Floors) s.t.
 
 
 1 - Michał Kwiatkowski (Team Sky) 
 
 2 - Damiano Caruso (BMC Racing Team) at 3”
 
 3 - Mikel Landa (Movistar Team) at 23”
 
 
 
 
 Maglia Azzurra (blue), General Classification Leader, sponsored by Gazprom - Michał Kwiatkowski (Team Sky) 
 
 Maglia Arancione (orange), Sprinter Classification Leader, sponsored by Sportful - Jacopo Mosca (Wilier Triestina - Selle Italia)
 
 Maglia Verde (green), King of the Mountains Classification Leader, sponsored by Snello Rovagnati - Nicola Bagioli (Nippo - Vini Fantini - Europa Ovini)
 
 Maglia Bianca (white), Young Rider General Classification Leader, sponsored by FIAT - Tiesj Benoot (Lotto Soudal) 
 
 
 Marcel Kittel said in the press conference: “This second stage victory isn’t necessarily better than the first one, which was my first pro win in Italy, so it was special. Today’s win is also special because it's the birthday of [teammate] Nathan Haas and it wasn’t an easy stage at all. I’m proud of the team. Katusha-Alpecin has a big potential in leadout with Rick Zabel and Marco Haller. With rouleurs like Alex Dowsett and Tony Martin, we can combine things really well. Today’s victory will keep everyone in the team motivated.”
 
 
 Race leader Michal Kwiatkowski said: “Today’s race was more nervous with the rain. It’s very nice to have technical circuits for the fans but, as riders, we find them tricky. We have to be careful where to be positioned in the bunch ahead of the corners. It’s part of cycling – we have to deal with it. Now I’ll have to deal with Damiano Caruso being a great time triallist. I have a good opportunity to win but it would have been easier if I had a bigger advantage. It’s gonna be a great spectacle for people watching the race – they won’t know the final result until we cross the line.”
 
 
 
 
 Second stage win for Marcel Kittel four days after the first one. It’s the 18th stage victory for German riders at Tirreno-Adriatico – only one down on Switzerland, the fifth winningest nation of all time.
 
 Like in 2015 (stage 2 and stage 3), Peter Sagan is second two days in a row. He has now 18 top 3's: 7 wins, 8 second places and 3 third places at Tirreno-Adriatico.
 
 Max Richeze is the second Argentinian to get a podium place at Tirreno-Adriatico after Juan José Haedo, who won at Perugia in 2011 and came third at Indicatore that same year.
 
 
