TRICHY: With V K Sasikala issuing a legal notice to V   and asking him to refrain from using her name or portrait for his political moves, the Mannargudi strongman on Monday preferred to call Sasikala his “erstwhile sister”.

 “Since a legal notice, which itself was based on hearing only one side of the developments, has been issued asking me not to use the relationship as well as her name and picture, I will prefer calling her my erstwhile sister. My political journey will, however, continue uninterrupted,” Divaharan told reporters in Mannargudi, at the end of a consultative meeting with his supporters.
 
 Expressing relief for getting an opportunity to keep away from the family, Divaharan said “it hurt whenever people called us “Mannargudi mafia. The tag was sitting on my head like a boulder and it will no longer be the case. I feel light,” he said.
 
 According to him, he was subjected to income tax raids, just because he happened to be the brother of Sasikala. “My interests are more in religious activities and in being an educationist. As a research scholar, I have helped several youngsters earn higher degrees. I will be happy doing it and consecrating more temples in which I always involved myself,” Divaharan said.
 
 As for the legal notice, he said, it was T T V Dhinakaran who was instrumental in sending such a notice. “He utilized his opportunities to meet Sasikala in prison to complain against me, without any valid grounds. He is trying to hit back at Sasikala using me and this is clearly blackmail politics,”   said. 
 
 He further said, it was Dhinakaran who was instrumental in O Panneerselvam revolting against Sasikala and family. “Now, Dhinakaran has even questioned by mental stability. Will anyone issue a legal notice to a mentally disturbed person,” Divaharan asked. 
 
 Divaharan also raised doubts over the legal notice referring to Sasikala as general secretary. "It has mentioned Sasikala as general secretary – whether it is AIADMK or Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). Anyway, we will not be using her portrait or name in future, and have decided to use the portraits of Anna, MGR and Jayalalithaa. I have saved Jayalalithaa’s life thrice,” he added.
 
 
