CHANDIGARH: Gurbani   Singh has alleged that he was manhandled by the police when he ‘caught’ the cops removing painting from inside the storage room at Qila Sarai,   in   district.

 Bhai Baldeep, who is also on the panel conceptualizing the 500th anniversary of Guru Nanak’s birth, alleged that two of his students —Vikramjit Singh and Simranpreet Singh — were beaten up by the policemen after they had started video recording the incident. He was manhandled after that, he alleged.
 
 “This is not a land dispute. This is about whether Punjab is interested in culturally regenerating itself or irretrievably degenerate itself into oblivion,” he said, adding, “These are my lifetime’s work—all of my stencils I personally drew, carved and cut since 1990 are gone!”
 
 The former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader expressed appreciation for the office of chief minister Amarinder Singh and the local MLA Navtej Singh Cheema, who, along with the district administration officials, intervened in time.
 
 Earlier in 2015, after the foundation’s musical instruments were moved out from Qila Sarai in Sultanpur Lodhi by the police, Baldeep had blamed the Kapurthala police for its highhandedness. He had sought immediate restoration of all areas from where his Anād foundation had been displaced.
 
 “It was in September - October, 2007, that I was requested the Government of Punjab to help them form the Sultanpur Lodhi Development Board. This was after they had learnt that I had thematically chosen Qila Sarai, Sultanpur Lodhi, for obvious historic relationship to Guru Nanak,” he added.
 
 When contacted, Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Kumar Sharma denied any incident of manhandling by the police personnel. “Since the Qila Sarai is in the   so police personnel would obviously ask for the identity of any person entering there. I have spoken to the SHO also, but there was no manhandling,” he said.
 
 The police have asked Baldeep to approach the deputy commissioner if he wanted to carry out any work in Qila Sarai since it was government property, said Sharma.
 
 
