BENGALURU: With Namma   employees threatening to go on a strike from Monday, the   (BMRCL) on Sunday said it is getting   staff to Bengaluru to ensure the rapid mass transport system doesn’t face any disruption.

 
 Suryanarayana  , vice-president, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Employees Union (BMREU), said they will take a call on the strike based on the outcome of the high court hearing on Monday afternoon, claiming that 900 of 1,500 Metro employees will take part in the strike.
 
 He said using the services of Kochi Metro staffers won’t work and alleged that there are attempts to use untrained staff as replacement in case of a strike, which could be dangerous.
 
 Sources in the union told TOI that the strike, if it does happen, may begin only late in the night.
 
 Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) managing director Mahendra Jain told TOI that they have sufficient staff to ensure that the services remain operational and Kochi Metro staff are arriving in the city on Monday morning to be ready for any contingency.
 
 Jain added that there are about 60 staffers, who have been trained and certified to run the train, including back-end work. “Also, we have written a letter to the home department, seeking additional forces to ensure that commuters face no hassles,” he added.
 
 The employees have alleged that the BMRCL has failed to meet their demands including salary hike, abolition of contract system, promotion and exclusion of Metro from the Essential Services Maintenance (ESMA) Act.
 
 The high court had earlier ordered the parties to hold meetings to resolve the issues.
 
 Murthy said they attended eight meetings in a month, but none of them yielded any result. A report will be submitted to the HC on Monday, after which they will go on strike, he added.
 
 The strike threat, however, has left Metro commuters worried. More than three lakh commuters take use the service daily.
 
 Ramya, a software employee, who takes Metro to commute to and from work, said the lack of clarity on the strike is worrying. “If there is a strike, I can make other arrangements but nobody is clear about it. Many like me who take Metro are facing the problem, especially those who take late evening or late night trains to reach home,” she said.
 
 
