KOCHI: The state government has issued an order suggesting that Kochi corporation can allow   group to operate the corporation's theatre until the local body designs projects to make use of the land and cinema hall there. Even the CPM-led opposition opposed the order citing that it was after much effort and controversy that the theatre was taken back from Kokers recently. 

 According to opposition leader  , any move to give back the land and cinema hall to Kokers group is deplorable. "The cinema hall and 88 cents in Kochi is a major asset of the corporation. The market value of the land would come close to Rs 50 crore. We can construct a cultural centre and multiplex there,"   said. "Crores of rupees can be earned as revenue every year. Moreover, it would also augment the cultural infrastructure in Kochi. Even if the local body has no funds to construct the cultural centre, government support can be sought. We can think of public private partnership as well," he said. Kokers group had been occupying the area even after the lease agreement with the corporation had expired.
 
 A legal battle took place to evicting Kokers from the land and the court finally issued a verdict in favour of the corporation. Later, corporation authorities took over the cinema hall and sealed it. Following this, Kokers group approached the state government seeking that they should be allowed to continue. "It is in response to Kokers' application that the state government issued the order. But, we won't give it back to Kokers. Our plan is rope in   and start a multiplex," deputy mayor said.
 
 Though the government issued the order two months ago, the corporation kept it a secret. "I had approached the corporation secretary seeking the government order and file pertaining to it. But, the secretary didn't give it to me. Mayor, deputy mayor and secretary are trying to conceal it. They should have put up the issue for the consideration of corporation council. They also have convened steering committee meeting and discussed the issue," K J Antony said.
 
