WASHINGTON: Call it vintage   – and a diplomatic gambit for the ages. In an extraordinary development that caught his own secretary of state and staff by surprise, US President Donald Trump on Thursday agreed to meet North Korea’s leader  , after the two had exchanged infantile insults and nuclear threats over the past year.

 
 
 Dates and venue for the meeting have not been finalised but it will take place by end of May, South Korean officials who mediated between the two sides said. Kim has committed to stopping nuclear and missile testing in the run up to the meeting, South Korean National Security adviser Chung Eui-Yong told reporters at the White House on Thursday after meeting Trump.
 
 Chung extended the invitation from Kim to meet while briefing Trump on the four-hour dinner he had with the North Korean leader in Pyongyang on Monday, following which he flew quickly to Washington. Trump apparently accepted the invitation without consulting his own team, which was caught slack-jawed by the bold decision, as was the   commentariat.
 
 ''That is a decision the president took himself. I spoke to him very early this morning about that decision and we had a very good conversation,'' secretary of state Rex Tillerson, who is travelling in Africa, told reporters in Djibouti. Tillerson had said only hours before that the US was ''a long way from negotiations'' with   after Trump has publicly chastised him some weeks ago for wasting his time talking to Pyongyang.
 
  
  
 
 Trump has repeatedly twitted Kim in the months before his latest turnaround. He once called him ''little rocketman'' and threatened to rain ''fire and fury'' on North Korea the likes of which the world has not seen before. Kim returned fire by calling Trump a ''dotard'' and a ''lunatic mean old trickster and human reject,'' while threatening to nuke Washington DC.
 
 On Thursday, Trump tweeted: ''Kim Jong Un talked about denuclearisation with the South Korean representatives, not just a freeze. Also, no missile testing by North Korea during this period of time. Great progress being made but sanctions will remain until an agreement is reached. Meeting being planned!''
 
 Washington pundits, used to decades of unremitting hostility between the two countries, struggled to make sense of the dramatic outreach. Explanations ranged from it being a bold gambit by the President in keeping with his mercurial temperament to the possibility that it is an outrageous caper to deflect attention from various scandals that have besieged him.
 
 Experts warned that such presidential summits took months of preparations to produce results while wondering if Trump was succumbing to the temptation of ''seeking a win'' to bolster his credentials or if he was just making headlines to push more embarrassing developments from the news cycle, such as his troubles with an adult film star. More conspiratorial theories centered on Russian leader Vladimir Putin and/or Chinese leader Xi Jinping, who have influence over Kim, bailing out Trump from domestic troubles.
 
 Washington pundits also noted that North Korea was adept at periodically buying time to advance its nuclear and missile programs while getting relief from sanctions with such ''concessions,'' in this case, one that actually put the country’s young 30-something leader on the same stage as the U.S President.
 
 No American President has met a North Korean leader in the 70 years since the communist country was founded. Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter respectively met Kim’s father and grandfather – both communist dictators like their grandson -- after the American Presidents had finished their White House stint.
 
 But the current White House insisted there would be no relief for North Korea from sanctions and denuclearization – and not just a temporary stand-down – was the eventual goal.
 
 ''President Trump greatly appreciates the nice words of the South Korean delegation and President Moon [Jae-in]. He will accept the invitation to meet with Kim Jong Un at a place and time to be determined,'' White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement. ''We look forward to the denuclearization of North Korea. In the meantime, all sanctions and maximum pressure must remain.''
 
 In Djibouti, Tillerson told reporters the South Korean meeting with the North Korean leadership ''was the most forward-leaning report that we've had, in terms of Kim Jong Un's not just willingness but his strong desire for talks.''
 
 ''What changed was his posture in a fairly dramatic way,'' Tillerson said. ''In all honesty, that came as a little bit of a surprise to us as well.''
 
