If there is one thing   can’t stand, it’s animals being hurt. And it doesn’t matter whether it’s for real or onscreen. “I remember, I was around 6 years old when I saw Jungle Book, and there was a scene where Sher Khan eyes a squirrel and gets ready to eat it. I started crying so loud that my parents had to switch off the TV,” he says.

 An only child, Lohit says he never felt like one, as he always had some four-legged companion or the other at home. “I can’t even remember now how many we have had, over the years as we were always taking in cats and dogs. The first pet I remember is our cat Snowy, who once delivered her kittens on the top of a cupboard. One of the kittens fell from the cupboard when we were away, and died. We had a   as well then, named Jippy. When we reached home, we found a very guilty looking Jippy, hiding. She had sensed that something was wrong with the kitten and licked it, but thought she was the reason for its death! I was small but I remember thinking how animals too feel all kinds of emotions,” he says.
 
 All through his journey with his pets, he was reminded of this fact over and over again, he says. They have a spitz cross named Blacky now, who was found abandoned in Thrissur. Blacky had passed many hands before reaching Lohit, and so has insecurity and jealousy issues, Lohit says. “Once we came across a kitten in the yard but Blacky chased it away. We were talking among ourselves about how we couldn’t rescue the kitten and Blacky’s face suddenly changed! He looked so disturbed that we had to tell him it’s okay. He often has such mood swings.”
  
  
 In another instance, they took in a dog from a friend who couldn’t look after him anymore. “He was sent to Kerala by flight from Mumbai. We went to Nedumbassery to pick him up, only to find him traumatised from being in the cargo without any care. For two weeks he didn’t make a sound but with love and care he became a cuddly dog,” he says.
 
 In between they had cat families coming and going, and while he was in Class 10, his constant companion was a cat called Kuttiyamma, he recalls. “I would recite my lessons to her and she would patiently listen for hours. I think she was the one who helped me do well in the exams,” he says with a laugh.
 
  
  
 Right now they have only three dogs, Tojo, Duggi and Blacky, all of whom are old. “I’ve witnessed the passing of many of our pets, and it used to hurt me a lot. But now I have come to accept that they have a specific life span.” 
 
 Now in his 20s, he no longer cries when he comes across injured animals but still gets disturbed, he confesses. “I have tried to get involved in animal rescue but had to retreat as I couldn’t bear to see their suffering. There was an anti-stray dog drive here in Kochi once and I was witness to a group of dogs dying before my eyes, puppies and mother dogs among them. For two days I couldn’t get up from bed, or eat. I know that doesn’t help animals a bit but I’m not able to do anything about it. If only people realised how they feel all the emotions, just like us, they wouldn’t hurt them unnecessarily, I feel,” he says. 
  
 
