SHIMLA: To improve the poor financial position of the party organization, state   president   has now sought suggestions from party leaders. The   (HPCC) is finding it difficult to meet the daily expenses of the organization with no source of income. The party is finding it difficult to even pay the lease money and property tax of its state office here.

 The Congress remained in power for five years from 2012-17 and then too   was claiming that neither the chief minister nor the ministers or majority of the MLAs were making contribution to the party fund. Now, the party is out of power and meeting daily expenses of the organization has become a challenge for the party, sources said.
 
 In the state executive meeting held here on Saturday, Sukhu apprised members about the poor financial condition of the organization and also invited their suggestions to improve the same. In the meeting, the HPCC office-bearers were present, along with district and block presidents. A decision has been taken in a meeting to send 2,500 workers for the April 29 rally of party president Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi. Sukhu said that besides financial issues concerning the organization, the coming parliamentary election was also discussed in the meeting. He said that to have a robust mechanism in place right up to the ground level before the elections, the party would prepare a data bank of 500 active workers in each assembly constituency of state. He said that this would be prepared by May 30 and all block presidents had been given directions in this regard.
 
 The party president said that in the wake of parliamentary elections the Congress would raise an army of workers whose record would be maintained right from block and district committees to the state committee. He said a decision had also been taken to launch a padyatra at block level against rising prices across the state in which all leaders and workers would participate. He added that “Hisab de Saansad, Jawab de Saansad” programme would also be extended. 
 
 
