In the hustle and bustle of unforgiving city life, sometimes our minds fail to keep up with the pace that our bodies are working at and unfortunately, it ends up encouraging toxic thoughts as a quick way to end problems and even escape from them. BT spoke to counsellors to understand the benefits of   (medically known as  ) — a psychological method used to help a person cope with their emotions and find solutions to their problems through personal interactions — and why pouring your heart out is really a healthy way to pull yourself out of stressful situations. 

  
 
 
  Instead of wallowing in self-pity, it is always a good idea to communicate your thoughts and feelings, however muddled, to someone who has the required skillset to share a much brighter (perhaps more logical, too) perspective pertaining to your problems. 
 
  Explains  , a counsellor, “All of us have certain coping mechanisms, which are based on our genetics and the environment, namely socio-economic-geographical-educational and religious background. We overcome some challenges easily, some with some effort and some we ignore or avoid. Yet, there are some challenges that we cannot escape, overcome or ignore. These stressors start depleting our quality of life, it could be the distance I travel for work, the pollution, a bad relationship, unhealthy work environment, ill-health, difficult financial situation. These can affect our mind and body greatly. Signs include fatigue, irritability, sadness, aggression, numbness, poor sleep, poor health, addictions etc. Even if after repeated attempts at dealing with it, it does not work, one must seek psychotherapy and counselling. A psychologist is a skilled expert who helps one to find clarity, resolution and solutions.”
 
  
 
 
  City-based psychiatrist Dr   says that there is a huge difference between talk therapy and confiding in a friend or family member. “There is a process called catharsis, whereby through a process of talk therapy the person allows for himself to work his way through a traumatic event. It releases a great amount of psychical energy and provides relief from symptoms. It is to be noted that the term counselling today is used very loosely. It is therapeutic when a parent or friend ‘counsels’ another, but it is not based on psychotherapeutic principles. However, there are a number of psychological disorders wherein counselling or therapy is not sufficient, but medication is indicated as well,” he shares.
 
  
 
 
  In order to lead a meaningful and fulfilling life, one must seek the help of an expert, who would walk him/her through the journey of going back to only harbouring positive thoughts. Psychotherapist Dr Neeta Shetty is of the opinion that the scientific benefits of talk therapy sessions are aplenty. “It helps in healing psychological disorders like anxiety and depression, which usually stems from negative thoughts and cognitive distortions. In fact, talk therapies like ‘Mindfulness’ has proven to rewire our brains towards positivity as well as in leading a more meaningful life. Talk therapies are also proven to heal the chemical imbalance in our brains, which results in psychological disorders. They also help us in improving the overall quality of our lives,” explains Dr Shetty. 
 
  
 
 
  Just like most incidents in life, psychiatric disorders also follow a cause-and-effect cycle. While we cannot do much to help our surroundings and the unfortunate events that triggered it, what we can do is talk it out so that the ‘cause’ behind the psychological ‘effect’ can be identified and cured. “Every psychiatric disorder has a biological basis, a psychological basis and social factors related to it. While we may not be able to change all social factors, we shall be able to modify biological factors like chemicals in the brain using medicines. The psychological factors underlying a psychiatric disorder can only be overcome by psychotherapy and counseling which helps them uncover causes, dissect out thoughts and form new beliefs and perceptions. Hence, one must undergo counselling or psychotherapy if one has a psychiatric disorder,” says Dr Avinash D’Souza, a consulting psychiatrist.
 
