NEW DELHI:   convict Manu Sharma may have got access to an   in Tihar complex, but the facility still remains out of bounds for  , for no reasonable grounds.

 Despite giving assurances to the   that eligible women prisoners would soon be permitted to use the semi-open and open prisons, the   authorities are yet to allow women displaying good conduct to make use of such jails. Last week, HC decided to fast-track the process and asked the lieutenant governor to take a call in ten days on the file sent to him for approval by the Delhi government and Tihar Jail authorities.
 
 “Let a decision with regard to the recommendation of the jail authorities be taken within 10 days from today and be placed before us within one week from today,” a bench of acting chief justice Gita Mittal and justice C Hari Shankar noted, while hearing a PIL on the issue.
 
 The PIL, filed by former law officer of Tihar, Sunil Gupta, asked for a justification from the government about why women prisoners in Tihar Jail are being denied the benefit of semi-open and open prisons.
 
 HC had then sought responses from the Delhi government, LG and director general of prisons saying, “Why are you denying this to women prisoners? This is very bad. What you are doing is a stereotypical approach. People should have an option, why should you discriminate.”
 
 In response, the government had last year said it is taking immediate corrective steps to remove any discrimination in the current jail manual as well as the practice of excluding women from the benefit of open and semi-open prisons. It had assured the court that new rules have been proposed in the new jail manual in this regard.
 
 During the hearing last week, the AAP government told court that a proposal and amendment changing the current policy of excluding women has been prepared and sent to the LG for approval, prompting the bench to fix a deadline. Gupta, in his plea filed through advocate Amit Khemka, has also sought quashing of the guidelines approved by the LG and other steps initiated to exclude female prisoners from the semi-open and open prisons.
 
 He wanted HC’s intervention to ensure special semi-open prisons and open prisons for women prisoners are set up in Delhi prisons in a time-bound manner.
 
 Semi-open or open prisons allow convicts to work outside the premises of jail and earn a livelihood and return to the jail in the evening. 
 
 This concept is being adopted by the jail authorities across the country. The concept was brought in to assimilate the convicts with society and reduce their psychological pressure as they face lack of confidence in leading normal lives outside the jail.
 
 “The provision (in guidelines for treatment of convicts in Delhi prisons) clearly demonstrates the fallacy as it treats ‘women convicts’ as being in the same category as that of ‘dangerous or habitual male prisoners’. There is virtually no justification for this inhuman, discriminatory, arbitrary and ridiculous categorisation,” it said.
 
 The plea alleged that the guidelines violated the fundamental right of equality of women prisoners confined in Delhi jails.
 
 
