His is the quintessential story of a simple, middle-class guy fighting all odds to follow his dreams, and that’s what drives Bengaluru-based   Brodha V to create original  . Brodha, who recently released his latest single Way Too Easy, spoke to Bangalore Times about his journey, how social media plays a crucial role in his life and his future plans. Excerpts…

 
 
 I was in my 12th grade when I began writing and rapping. And like any other kid, I was forced into engineering and realized that was not my calling. I wanted to pursue a course in audio and music. My parents were worried for me and didn’t know if there was a substantial future in music. Eventually, I told my dad that I was interested in music. So, I quit my studies and pursued music, and now it has become a part of my life. 
 
 
 
 I’ve always focused on making my own music, because I want to put the story of   out there. What a middle-class guy from Bengaluru thinks of the world — that’s my story. The journey has been good. It feels great to be one of the very few rappers in this country.
 
 
 
 For the past 7-8 years, it was a little slow and not many people had figured how they wanted to sound as most people would just copy an American act. But, of late, many people are figuring it out and they know how they want to sound. Every region in this country has its own hip hop sound. Bengaluru has its own sound, so do Mumbai and Delhi. Similarly in the Northeast, they are so distinct in their sounds. Everybody is contributing a lot to this culture. There are so many young kids gravitating towards this genre, because there are a lot of people who don’t relate to Bollywood music anymore. Rap music is the next big thing.
 
 
 
 Nowadays everyone is on their phones, constantly streaming content. The content on TV, I feel, is mostly for older people who are 40 plus. All the fun content like web series, sitcoms and such that young people watch, is online. I guess this is the future as more people are gravitating to it. The internet opens up a whole new market and you don’t have to run behind any executive to get your music heard. Online is where you can directly interact with your fans as well. The moment you put something out, you get a response immediately. That way it is a lot more transparent.
 
 
 
 Online trolling is a serious issue but people need to be strong. They shouldn’t take it seriously. You are doing something online because you like it and not because you need validation from someone. I make music because I like it. If people hate it, they hate it.
 
 
 
 The video is about how people try to put you down; how much negativity is around; how people tell you that ‘you can’t do it’; and how you prove them wrong and make it look way too easy. I wanted to motivate people with this song and tell them that ‘you can do what you want to’.
 
 
 
 I’ve got a lot of music coming up this year and lots of collaborations coming out soon. This year is going to be packed for me. There is going to be lot of content and lot of big cities, where I will perform live.
 
 
