NAGPUR: After over 120 city schools submitted their affidavits on fitness of their buses ferrying pupils, the Nagpur bench of   on Wednesday, directed   (RTO) and commissioner of police to verify them within two weeks.

 A division bench comprising justices   and Swapna Joshi further told them to file personal affidavits on whether the schools have complied with all safety norms of buses and information furnished in their respective affidavits was correct.
 
 The court also issued summons to managements of two schools which failed to file their reply till date even after repeated directives. The chairmen and secretaries of societies running them were asked to remain personally present along with principals during next hearing.
 
 Earlier, amicus curiae Firdos Mirza pointed out that many schools and private agencies operate small vans for ferrying students, despite the fact that it doesn’t came under the category of ‘school buses’. He stated that those vans were being illegally operated with impunity, thus risking lives of the children. The judges then asked the RTO to explain on whether the vans are allowed to be used for the purpose, as per rules.
 
 The HC was hearing suo Motu PIL on tragic death of nine-year-old Virat Zade, a student of  , on January 9, 2011. Peeved with poor response from the schools, the court had slapped Rs5,000 fine on 125 of them during one of the hearings. Later, the HC issued a bailable warrant of Rs25,000 against 90 of total 126 schools, which failed to respond.
 
 A few of them then responded but majority failed to comply with the directives. The HC then asked to cancel warrants against those who submitted proper reply. It had also censured schools for failure to respond to valuable suggestions by the RTO for safety of their children.
 
 In last hearing, Mirza pointed out that some schools complying with court orders, had avoided to provide registration number and vehicles used by them. He sought time to study and compare all affidavits filed by the schools and to find out whether same vehicle is being used by more than one of them.
 
 He added that the Directorate of Primary Education’s circular of February 6 that made it mandatory for schools to install CCTV in buses and premises. It also prescribed police verification of the staff. But the CCTVs are neither fitted in any bus nor installed on the school premises. Even women staff is not provided on the buses wherever it is compulsory.
 
 
