NEW DELHI: The parliamentary impasse is set to spill into the second week with the opposition continuing to resent that the government has not agreed to its demand for a debate on the PNB scam.

 On Monday, a joint opposition will stick to its stance that the government accept an ‘adjournment motion’ on banking scams for their protests to stop. It has raised questions about what will be the meeting ground where the government and the opposition can discuss passage of the ‘finance bill’. The   is a bipartisan issue which has rarely been put in peril by the opposition. However, a compromise will have to be reached.
 
 Sources in the opposition said unless the government made a dramatic proposal, there appeared little possibility of passage of the Budget before March 19. It implies that the opposition is bracing for another week of the   blockade.
 
 Congress deputy whip   and senior BJD MP Bhartruhari Mahtab said the government had not reverted to the opposition after the Speaker called a meeting last week to hammer out a solution. The opposition had in unison demanded an ‘adjournment motion’ to discuss banking scams. As an alternative, it was suggested that a “discussion with voting” be held on the subject. However, the Centre prefers that the issue be debated under Section 193, which is a simple discussion without voting.
 
 “The government does not appear desirous that the issues are resolved and Parliament functions normally,” Mahtab said. CPM MP M B Rajesh said it was up to the government to resolve the confrontation.
 
 The Budget has to be passed just in Lok Sabha as it is a money bill. While the logjam appears serious in Rajya Sabha where the opposition has a strong bench strength to thwart the government, the lower House has been blockaded despite the ruling coalition’s brute majority because virtually every non-NDA party has come together on the issue of the banking scam. Besides, Lok Sabha is also affected by protests over state-centric issues by   and  .
 
 While the opposition was merely keen on a discussion, even under Section 193, it raised the bar to ‘adjournment motion’ after the government, as they alleged, diluted the issue by widening the ambit of banking scams to include all such scams post-independence. “It was just to avoid scrutiny of scams under the Modi government by defusing the focus to ‘irregularities in banking sector over the years’,” a senior leader said.
 
 Opposition parties are suspicious of the protests by BJP-friendly AIADMK and TRS in Parliament, with many seeing it as “strategic” to ensure that banking scam does not hog the headlines. Amid the logjam, BJD said it would be ready for a simple discussion under Section 193 if the Centre reverted to the language originally proposed by the opposition to keep the focus on banking scams. For the opposition and the government, this could be the compromise.
 
