BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh’s failure to get geographical indications (GI) tag for its basmati rice will have far-reaching financial consequences on farmers as well as mill owners of the state.

 Approximately around 4 lakh tonnes of basmati rice is produced across 13 districts of the state and a majority of it is exported. There are 10 big and approximately 90 small basmati mills in the entire state.
 
 
  
 “The farmers as well as mill owners who belong to the state and do not have mills outside MP will be the biggest losers. Without the GI tag, we will not be able to get proper prices and will not be able to export our produce as basmati. Without the GI tag, we will not be able to provide certificate of origin for our basmati and hence we will not be in a position to export,” said Anil Agarwal, director of Sanwaria Agro, a leading agro-industry in the state.
 
 “It is interesting to note why APEDA (Agricultural & Processed Food Products Export Development Authority), a body of the Union government is opposing the MP government’s claim for a GI tag for its basmati. The fact remains that both the central and state government is run by the same party. Responsible people from the state should ask this pertinent question,” Agarwal told TOI.
 
 Talking about the turnover of basmati rice in the state, Agarwal claimed that MP produces around 11 lakh metric tonnes of basmati rice in the last financial year. Officials, however, claim that production is just close to 4 lakh metric tonnes. But, even by conservative estimates, if production is 4 lakh metric tonnes, it means a revenue of roughly Rs 1,100 crore.
 
 Due to absence of the GI tag, MP farmers are already getting lower prices for their produce. “We sell basmati paddy for Rs 2,600-2,700 per quintal. But, in Haryana and Punjab, the same paddy is being sold at around Rs 3,200-3,300 per quintal. We have been growing basmati for long and injustice has been meted to us. The government should raise the issue before competent authorities. We had submitted memorandums in past also,” said Bhojpal Chaudhary, a farmer from Sankhini village in   district. Chaudhary cultivates the crop in over 30 acres of land.
 
 Activists allege apathetic attitude of officials and the state government led to this outcome. “If the government had raised the issue with all its might, the decision would have come in our favour, which would have benefitted the farming community immensely. The apathy is not only restricted to basmati — even oranges and kalimuch rice of Balaghat and a host of other agricultural products should ideally get the GI tag,” said Nikunj Garg.
 
 Garg is associated with an NGO called  . The NGO was also an intervener at the GI Registry, Chennai, and demanded the tag for MP basmati, along with the state government.
 
 Advocate Ankur Pastor, the chairman of   said, “The government should made an appeal before the Intellectual Property Appellate Board (IPAB), which is the appellate body against GI Registry as soon as possible and gather proper evidence. MP losing its basmati tag will have far-reaching impact. It is also noteworthy that the same GI Registry favoured the state’s claim in the year 2013, which was then opposed by APEDA in IPAB. Strangely, the same GI Registry opposed us this time”.
 
 When contacted over the issue, principal secretary of agriculture   said, “We are going to appeal against the judgment in the high court. The facts presented by us before the GI Registry were not taken into consideration. We have hired two top lawyers, one in Delhi and the other in Chennai for this purpose”.
 
 It is worth mentioning that in November 2008, APEDA included Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Uttarakhand, western UP and two districts of Jammu and Kathua in J&K as traditional GI area for basmati rice cultivation in its application before the GI Registry and MP was excluded from the list.
 
 Subsequently, MP moved an application before the GI Registry, Chennai, to include it in the list of traditional basmati producing areas. On December 31, 2013, the GI Registry ordered the APEDA to file an amended GI application to include MP, Rajasthan, Bihar and other some other states.
 
 But, the APEDA moved an appeal against the orders of the GI Registry at the appellate board and in February 2016, IPAB set aside the order of the GI Registry given on December 2013 for including Madhya Pradesh and other states. It also asked MP to present its application before the GI Registry will proper evidence. MP then moved its application before the GI Registry and on March 15, the application was set aside by the registry. MP government has also moved the high court challenging the earlier IPAB order that was given on February 2016.
 
 
