Villupuram: The cadres of  , along with DMK, CPI and CPM cadres, staged a protest on Wednesday seeking the immediate arrest of people involved in the ‘murder’ of two   youths at Thirukoilur in Villupuram district recently.

 The protesters charged that S Kirubhaneethi, 21, a second-year student at a private engineering college in Tiruvannamalai district, was brutally attacked by contract killers for falling in love with a girl, belonging to the most backward class community, in the village. The gang had also attacked two other friends of Kirubhaneethi.
 
 They claimed that Kirubhaeethi died on the way to the hospital, while his friend Veeramani, 16, a class VIII drop-out, succumbed to his injuries at Jawaharlal institute of postgraduate medical education and research (Jipmer) in Puducherry on Tuesday. Another friend Gopinath, 17, a plus two student, is battling for life at Jipmer.
 
 Police said the three youths were found unconscious with head injuries on the roadside at Athichanallur village near Thirukoilur on January 1. The local villagers rushed them to Thirukoilur government general hospital where the doctors on duty referred them to Mundiyambakkam government medical college hospital.
 
 Thirukoilur police have registered a case under Section 174 (police to inquire and report on suspicious death) of the CrPC.
 
 Police have launched a probe looking at various angles, including accidental death and murder. They are also not ruling out the possibility of a speeding vehicle knocking them down when they were proceeding to celebrate New Year. “We will be in a better position to comment only after the youth undergoing treatment regains consciousness and gives a statement,” said a police officer.
 
 However, the relatives of the victims and VCK cadres claimed that it was a case of murder as there was no injury other than deep-cut wounds on the heads of the three youths.
 
 Meanwhile, CPM state secretary G Ramakrishnan sought the government to provide a solatium of Rs 10 lakh each to the families of the two deceased and arrange better medical treatment for the other youth by engaging a team of specialists from Chennai and bear the medical expenses. He urged the police not to close the case in haste declaring that the three died in an accident. The CPM termed the incident as a case of ‘honour killing’.
 
 
