NEW DELHI: Armed gangsters ran amok in   on Friday, firing indiscriminately and killing a 27-year-old man in full public view. As it turned out later, it was a fallout of an ongoing   between two rival groups—one led by Delhi’s most wanted gangster  , and another by  . 

 The man who was killed was   alias Pawan. He had gone to Rohini court with a friend named Digvijay in his Swift for a hearing. A resident of Alipur, Pawan was accused in a case of attempted murder in 2014. 
  
 
 The two friends stopped at a roadside eatery near Pitampura power house, which is quite well-known for its naan-kulcha. Pawan then spotted two men on a motorcycle waiting outside the shop and suspicious as he had seen them in court as well. 
 
 The bikers had followed them from court. Digvijay later told the police that they had turned towards Pitampura instead of going towards Alipur after sensing that they were being followed. Once at Pitampura, they thought they had managed to shake off the bikers so stopped to grab a quick lunch. Unknown to the two friends, there were others tailing them in a car. 
 
 Sensing danger, Pawan ran out of the shop and tried to flee. But his path was blocked by a car and armed men standing behind it. Moments later, the armed men showered a hail of bullets on Pawan and killed him at the spot. He was shot at least 10 times. But about 14 rounds were fired, one of which hit a paan shop-owner nearby in the abdomen. 
 
 Meanwhile, as the shots rang out, there was panic in the area with people fleeing the spot. The assailants then checked Pawan’s pulse to see if he was dead. Once they were sure he was, they got into their vehicles and fled with ease after threatening passersby.
 
 No policeman had reached the spot by then. It was only after the gangsters left did a local dial 100. Police arrived and took the injured shopkeeper, Sandeep (22), to a hospital. 
 
 “It looked like a scene from some action movie. There were bullets flying from everywhere. By the time we could gather ourselves, the men had fled,” said a witness who runs another eatery in the area. 
 
 Crime and forensic teams inspected the spot and Pawan’s body was sent for postmortem. The police registered an FIR of murder and started scanning CCTV footage of the area for clues about the attackers.
 
 “We thought it was a terror attack. The attackers had their faces covered with helmets and wore jeans and sneakers. After killing the man, the shooters pointed their weapons at us and threatened to shoot anyone who tried to oppose them,” said another witness.
 
 No arrests were made till late on Friday, but police said more than 10 teams, including those from crime branch and special cell, were working on the case. Incidentally, the area falls in the north zone of Delhi, which does not have a law and order chief. 
 
 The south zone in-charge has been given extra charge of the area. Sources said LG Anil Baijal might post a full-time officer in the zone by next week. Crime branch units of outer zone areas have also been pulled up for failing to crack down on these gangs, it has been learnt. 
 
 
