NAGPUR: If a student of   (NU) has appeared for an exam, but has been marked absent in the mark-sheet, who should correct this error? Until last session, NU would check the attendance records at the exam centre, and trace the relevant answer paper. Now, NU has started asking students to get proof of attendance from their exam centre in-charge, forcing students to run pillar to post.

 Answer sheets get misplaced or are not attributed to the correct student if the wrong enrolment number or roll number are written on them. This results in students being marked absent for the paper, or their result being withheld.
 
 Now, NU is asking students to procure a copy of the exam attendance sheet, or a letter from the exam centre in-charge, along with the ‘wanting form’ to confirm that the student has actually appeared in the exam. The onus is entirely on such students to approach their exam centres and carry the confirmation letter to the exam section at Amravati Road campus.
 
 The new procedure came to fore last week when around 50 such students were asked to bring proof of attendance from the exam centre after they approached NU to get their mark-sheets corrected. Until now, students with withheld results, or those marked absent in some papers, had to only fill up the ‘wanting forms’ while rest of the formalities were completed by NU.
 
 Most of the students who came to fill wanting forms this time were from colleges in  , Bhandara and Gondia. All of them had to return to their exam centres to get the proof of attendance.
 
 “I came from Wardha, as I was marked absent in one paper. I was told to bring proof or copy of attendance sheet from my exam centre. So, I had to go back empty-handed. Later, I sent my father to get the proof and submit it at the university since I had to attend college,” a student said.
 
 Though well-intentioned, NU has implemented the decision without informing students, or deliberating over ways to cause minimum inconvenience to students. Now that NU has started announcing results for winter exams, many students will have to go through this tedious exercise.
 
 Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation,   admitted that the exam section didn’t issue any circular to colleges or upload a notice on the website. “There are technical difficulties in issuing a circular in such a case. At the same time, our staff had to go through thousands of answer sheets over four or five days to find the missing answer sheet. In the last two exams, we had also faced a problem of students appearing for exams without authorization,”   said.
 
 He said that the main aim of this move is to save NU’s time, while malpractices like illegal students too would be curbed through this.
 
 
