COIMBATORE: Disregarding the fares announced by the Kovai District Auto Labourers’ Association (Kdala) just days ago, autorickshaw drivers across the city are charging passengers as much as two times the fixed rate, TOI found.

 Auto drivers at the stand near the   demanded Rs 80 to Rs 100 for a ride from the mall to the  , a distance of around 2.5km. As per the Kdala fare chart, the fare should have been only Rs 45.
 
 The drivers demanded Rs 70 to take them from the   on Race Course to the railway station, a distance of around 2km, a Hindi-speaking couple told TOI. According to the association’s fare chart, the fare would only be Rs 37.50.
 
 Another commuter had to shell out Rs 50 from the same spot to VOC Grounds, which was less than 2km away. The fare goes up exponentially after 10:00pm, several frequent passengers said.
 
 Kdala, in collaboration with 12 other labour associations in the city, had distributed revised fare charts to autorickshaw drivers about five days ago. Its general secretary   said the association had been asking the drivers across the city to follow the new chart. “Autorickshaw fares were last revised in 2014. We spoke to the transport minister and commissioners, and asked them to revise the fare. But, nothing has happened till now,” he said.
 
 While many auto drivers claimed that they had no idea about the new fare chart, some of them claimed that they belonged to a different labour union.
 
 Of the 12,000 or so autorickshaw drivers in the city, roughly 3,000 are members of Kdala and affiliated unions, Sugumaran said. “Some unions do not want to implement the fares we announced. It is difficult to enforce it. We will do it in a phased manner. We will conduct a meeting with all the unions and educate them about the new fare chart in about 10 days,” he said. Meanwhile, transport department officials said any fare chart, other than the one fixed by the government, is illegal. They called Kdala’s fare chart a gross violation, but said they have not received any complaints from passengers.
 
 
