BENGALURU: It’s not just the mercury that’s soaring,   in the city is on the rise too, say  . In fact, residents wary of the   and related   are pouring their woes on  

  On BBMP’s Sahaya app, a citizen-centric service interface, many residents expressed concern and said the civic agency isn’t doing enough to address the issue.
 
 Pranathi N M, a banker and resident of Chandra Layout near Vijayanagar, west Bengaluru, blamed garbage mismanagement for the growing mosquito hazard. “Garbage spots coupled with stagnant water from clogged drains are turning into breeding grounds for mosquitoes,” he added.
 
 Neeraj K, a software analyst and resident of Kaikondrahalli, off Sarjapur Road, said stagnant sewage water in their vicinity is drawing swarms of mosquitoes and the area stinks. “I raised a complaint on Twitter tagging the city mayor and other authorities, but it has been of little help,” he added.
 
 Many residents of CV Raman Nagar and Bannerghatta Road say their complaints on BBMP’s Sahaya app haven’t resulted in any relief.
 
 However, BBMP chief health officer (public health) Dr M N Lokesh denied any surge in the mosquito population. “We are regularly fogging various areas and also addressing specific complaints from residents. However, there has been no alarming rise in the number of mosquitoes or cases of vector-borne diseases,” he added.
 
 When it comes to dealing with the city’s mosquito woes, experts feel the BBMP isn’t getting its focus right. “With the city receiving a few spells of rain some weeks ago, water has stagnated in many pockets, and these must have turned into fertile breeding grounds for mosquitoes,” said urban expert ASK Pani.
 
 “While proper fogging will help curb the menace, one needs to understand that dengue mosquitoes (aedes aegypti) thrive near or inside houses, especially in water drums, discarded coconut shells and other containers where there is stagnant water. While people themselves need to be responsible and ensure there is no water stagnation in such places, the civic agency should hold large-scale awareness drives to address the issue,” he added. 
 
 
