NEW DELHI: A month-long exhibition on Jammu and Kashmir, which opened at the National Archives on Thursday, seeks to highlight just how the founding president of Jan  , Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, warned former PM Jawahar Lal   and Sheikh Abdullah about the far reaching consequences of getting the Instrument of Accession signed in Kashmir.

 Drawing from documents and videos obtained from the Ministry of Defence, the Films Division and the British Pathe, the exhibition includes rare documents like The Treaty of Lahore of March, 1846, The Treaty of Amritsar, and the Instrument of Accession signed in October 1947. 
 
 A portion of the exhibition on Mookerjee’s contributions are contained in a section titled ‘Shyama Prasad Mookerjee on Jammu & Kashmir issue and on the agitation which sought full integration of the state with India’.
 
 Focusing on the Jan Sangh ideologue, the exhibit draws from four letters that Mookerjee wrote and that are on display; two each to Nehru and Sheikh Abdullah, a January 9, 1953, letter to Nehru said, “It is high time that both you and Sheikh Abdullah should realise that this movement will not be suppressed by force or repression...The problem of Jammu and Kashmir should not be treated as a party issue. It is a national problem and every effort should be made to present a united front.”
 
 The Mookerjee section, which makes a nuanced political point that the saffron brigade played a proactive, positive role at the time the Jammu and Kashmir problem first began, also seeks to turn the tables on Congress’s icon Nehru, and comes at a time when the present day political opposition has attacked the Modi government for its failure to find a ‘political solution’ to the J&K imbroglio. In his letter, Mookerjee has also warned Nehru against the dangers of a “general plebiscite on a highly controversial issue”, and the rise of communal passions in J&K, as a result. 
 
 His letter to Abdullah also exposes the shism between the Jan Sangh and the National Conference over the rule of J&K shifting hands from the ‘Hindu Dogras’ to the ‘Kashmiri Muslims’. In a letter dated February 13, 1953, Mookerjee refers to Abdullah’s opposition to Praja Parishad, a political outfit with close ties with the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, and which campaigned for the integration of Jammu and Kashmir with India, and opposed the special status granted to the state under the Article 370 of the Indian constitution.
 
 He said, “One fundamental point where I differ from you is your attitude towards the Praja Parishad....The movement launched by the Parishad...has been able to rally together various sections of the people who you thought would never support this organisation....Your refusal to negotiate with the Parishad on account of its past activities is hardly tenable...you yourself started as a leader of a communal party.”
 
 Inaugurating the exhibition, culture minister Mahesh Sharma said the purpose of curating the exhibition is to educate the youth about how Kashmir became a part of India. “Maharaja Hari Singh, when he signed this instrument (of accession), only after that, I repeat, only after that, the Indian forces went to that area. This needs to be showcased,” Sharma said.
 
 The compendium of digital content, original letters, telegrams, and archival rare documents pertaining to the Kashmir imbroglio also have a large number of soldiers’ maps, newspapers reports, books Kashmir, and rare operational records including war diaries, and dispatches of Jammu and Kashmir Operations carried out in 1947-48.
 
 Celebrating India at 70, the exhibition also showcases PM Narendra Modi’s message emphasising the government’s commitment to “Kashmiriyat, Insaniyat and Jamhooriyat”. The exhibition is open to public viewing at the National Archives of India until February 10.
 
 
