MUMBAI: The trustee of a suburban school who was booked for allegedly sexually assaulting a three-year-old last year has resumed his duties despite strong opposition from a section of parents.

 The trustee was arrested in November following an FIR lodged by the girl’s parents but released on bail. Soon after the bail was granted in December, he began to visit the campus, leaving several parents shocked. The parents, especially those of students from lower classes, have now approached the police seeking their intervention. They wrote to the zonal deputy commissioner of police seeking a revision of the bail order, restricting the trustee from visiting the school premises where the alleged crime took place, at least till the trial is complete.
 
 
 One of the parents said the school’s administration is stonewalling their concerns of safety and security. “We would also want to believe that the trustee is not involved in the sexual assault case but that is for the court to decide. The least the school could have done is to ensure he does not visit the premises till he is acquitted of all charges,” said the parent.
 
 “We are concerned for the well-being of our children. We are shocked that he has been allowed back in the same premises where the alleged crime took place, with access to vulnerable impressionable minds. By being in the same premises, he is in a position to influence potential witnesses in the course of the trial,” stated the letter addressed to the DCP.
 
 When contacted, the trustee accused of the alleged crime said that everyone has a right to an opinion but he refused to comment further on the issue. Another trustee, though, said only a section of parents is opposed to him visiting the school and a majority have no problem.
 
 DCP (Zone X) Navinchandra Reddy said he would discuss the matter with the school administration. “He is the trustee of the school and there is no restraining order against him. The parents, too, do not have any specific complaints against him. There are only apprehensions. Officially, we will be unable to restrain him from entering the premises but we will warn the school to take precautions,” said Reddy.
 
