BHOPAL: Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials are not depending on Upper Lake and   — the two major water sources — this year. Instead, they have pinned hopes on Narmada to see the city through the dry patch.
 
 
 In Upper Lake, water level dipped to 1652.85 feet. In case of Kolar dam, it touched 442.67 metres. In both cases, it is significantly lower than the previous year, Narmada has kept hopes alive of BMC water works staff.
 
  
 “Water level in Narmada is maintained by release of water from dams in   like   and we shall get enough water from the river to tide over water crisis till the monsoon arrives,” said BMC water works incharge A R  .
 
 Pawar said, “Narmada has enough water to fulfil the need of the city residents. Along with Narmada, we are also fetching water from Kerwa Dam to tackle water crisis situation.”
 
 He said, “We shall also need 1 MCM (million cubic metre) water till July 31 from Kerwa and the dam has enough water. Water of Kerwa dam is being supplied daily to around 4,000 individual connections and 12 bulk connections, including colonies and flats that are attached to it.”
 
 “Since Upper Lake water level has dipped a great deal, we are pumping out 23 MCM water instead of 30 MCM that we used to pump out till now. water level in Kolar Dam is good enough to continue supply till monsoon season,” Pawar said.
 
 In-charge of Upper Lake Rakesh Nigam, was not so optimistic as Pawar and obviously so. He said, “Upper Lake is almost at the minimum level where we could draw water for supply. Just 0.85 feet above the dead end. Last year, on this day, the water level in lake had touched 1660 feet mark. Around 23 MGD of water is being drawn from the Upper Lake every day. It accounts for about 30% of city’s water supply demand, but it's not possible now. Supply from Upper Lake would be possible for one more week only.”
 
 In this situation, the only way to tackle water crisis is greater supply through Narmada and BMC has already started doing that. "We are now mostly dependent on Narmada river and will continue to draw more water from Narmada to meet our demand,” said Pawar.
 
 Nitin, water works incharge at Kerwa dam, said, “Water level in the dam has reduced to 503 meter. Usually, we are only responsible to supply water to farmers for irrigation but due to water scarcity in the city, BMC has signed a contract with us for yearly water supply of 5 MCM. However, due to broken pipelines, we did not have to supply water to BMC this year and we were able to complete our target of irrigation.”
 
 Except for some slum clusters, water scarcity may not have acquired alarming proportions in new Bhopal.
 
 Kailash Ramwani of Idgah Hills, said, “Till now, residents of Idgah Hills area were dependent on borewells, but now even underground water has started drying, making residents dependent on private water tanker suppliers.”
 
 Mohammad Zain of Shahjehanabad, said, “Water crisis is already being felt in the area as BMC tap water supply is not regular anymore. There are times when no water was not supplied for two consecutive days.”
 
