Mumbai: Two days after the   went on a   spree in the city, targeting illegal extensions by restaurants, municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta temporarily halted the   and gave a 15-day deadline for the remaining violators to voluntarily remove unauthorised alterations. He also promised to put an end to the nexus between municipal officials and self-styled activists who act as   and procure permissions from the BMC.

 In an interview to TOI on Monday, Mehta said: “I expect that errant hotels, pubs, bars and restaurant owners themselves remove the unauthorised and illegal structures within 15 days. If they fail to comply, then we will be ruthless.” 
 
 After Friday’s blaze that gutted two restaurants, Mojo’s Bistro and 1Above, and killed 14 people, the municipal administration demolished illegal alterations at several eateries across the city. 
 
 “We have lodged criminal complaints and initiated proceedings under the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act (for land use violations) against errant owners. We felt that an opportunity should be given to them to correct themselves. If they do not follow rules, then they will be dealt with an iron hand,” Mehta said.
 
 Mehta also ordered an inquiry against assistant municipal commissioner Prashant Sapkale and the five employees who were suspended for negligence for permitting an illegal shed that caught fire on the rooftop. On Sapkale’s transfer as assistant commissioner to Andheri, considered a “lucrative’’ posting, Mehta claimed that he had not been given a clean chit but posted to Andheri as no other post was vacant. “Once the inquiry is complete, we will decide the course of action against him. We expect that additional commissioner Vijay Singhal will submit his inquiry report within a month,” he said.
 
 Mehta blamed some activists who played a key role in securing permissions for illegal and unauthorised eating houses. “Let me admit, BMC officials responsible for granting permissions were hand-in-glove with the activists. This is why when basic norms were not followed, still they secured all permissions and that too in a record time,” Mehta said. He has asked his seven zonal deputy commissioners to prepare a list of activists manipulating the system.
 
 “They manipulated the entire system. In fact, it was a single-window clearance if the applicant approached through these activists. We will build a strong case against these activists. Most unfortunate part was that while our officials surrendered, there was complete lack of supervision as senior officials failed to take note of rampant illegal activities in the ward office,” Mehta said.
 
 Mehta said he would split the fire brigade into two with one focusing on ensuring fire safety compliance and the other on fire-fighting. “We found that once a conditional no-objection certificate is granted, there is no follow up action; as a result, BMC does not have information on whether the conditions have been followed or now. Now, there will be a designated officer to ensure that all the conditions are followed in letter and spirit,” Mehta said.
 
 Mehta said he has plans to develop a robust system, exemplary punishment to the erring officials and above all a regime of self compliance. “We are planning to impose a stringent punishment to erring officials and at the same time, we expect that an entrepreneur will ensure that all the rules and regulations are implemented in letter and spirit,” he said.
 
 Asked why no criminal cases had been initiated against BMC officials, Mehta said it was for the law-enforcing agencies to take action. “Criminal cases have been registered, it for the police to decide now,” Mehta said.
 
 
