KOLKATA: In an attempt to break the ongoing logjam at the Calcutta High Court over lawyers’ cease-work, Acting Chief Justice Jyotirmay   and two of his senior-most colleagues, Justice   and Justice Debasish Kar Gupta urged the lawyers’ bodies to withdraw their agitation. The lawyers’ bodies—Calcutta High Court Bar Association, Bar Library Club and Incorporated Law Society—will meet on Tuesday to decide the fate of the stir that has been on since February 18.

 ACJ Bhattacharya and his senior colleagues, sources said, tried to reason with the agitating lawyers that during their month-andand-a-half-old agitation, three new judges were appointed. The SC collegium, the lawyers were told, had also recommended the names of five more judges to be appointed in Calcutta HC. Urging the lawyers’ bodies to reason with their colleagues to end the cease-work for the benefit of litigants, they told lawyers that both the Chief Justice of India and the Centre were aware of the acute crisis at the HC here.
 
 “We have a general body meeting on Tuesday, when all the issues will be taken up for consideration. A decision will be made there,” said Uttam Majumdar, Bar Association president.   president Jayanta Mitra declined to comment,   secretary Paritosh Sinha said, “The fate of the cease-work will be decided at tomorrow’s meeting.”
 
 Pointing out that irreversible damage was done to the judicial system by lawyers going on strike, the   on Wednesday decided to act tough against advocates and bar associations that passed resolutions for strike, and directed the Centre to file quarterly reports, based on which contempt proceedings would be initiated against them. A bench of Justice A K   and Justice U U Lalit said the apex court had declared 15 years ago that lawyers could not go on strike but the order was being flouted rampantly, resulting in delayed delivery of justice to litigants.
 
 The Bar Association, however, argued that the law also made room for mitigating circumstances and vacant judge’s posts was one such situation. “We are not agitating for our benefit. The nonappointment of judges delayed delivery of justice and the real sufferer were litigants. It is their cause we are espousing,” said a Bar Association member. “If the Centre spells out a timeframe when the five judges will be appointed, the cease-work will be immediately called off.”
 
