CHENNAI: The fire at Meenakshi Temple in Madurai that damaged the Veera Vasantharaya mandapam has raised questions about the safety of devotees at temples that are themselves heritage structures. To ascertain that, however, temples require an annual fire safety audit which none of the 70-odd structures categorised as heritage buildings in the city by the   has undergone for more than 15 years.

 The last time these religious institutions came under the scrutiny of the fire and rescue services department was in 2000 after the Thanjavur Brihadeeswarar   accident in which 40 people were killed.
 
 
 
  
 
 During its visits to   at Tiruvouttiyur, Kapaleeshwarar Temple at Mylapore and Marundeeshwarar Temple at Thiruvanmiyur, TOI found out that flammable materials were dumped in corners and temporary stages were set up without prior permission from the fire safety wing.
 
 Besides these, unsafe electrical wiring, known to be a potential ignition source, was spotted in most temples. Electrical short circuits were identified as the reason behind the five fire accidents reported at heritage buildings in Chennai. Shops that mushroomed along the compound walls and were cleared by the civic body a few years ago have sprung up again. The fire at the Madurai temple spread because of combustible material stacked in such shops.
 
 Except for fire extinguishers installed at sanctum, kitchens and office areas, most temples in Chennai lack a standard operating procedure (SOP) in the event of any disaster.  , co-convener of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, TN chapter, said an SOP was the need of the hour. “It must cover all kinds of disasters. It should not be only in papers but executed through regular safety audits,” she said.
 
 Fire department officials said safety audits in temples can be done only when HR&CE seeks help as attempts from their end were opposed by temple authorities.
 
 Ganesan said the Tamil Nadu government has failed to protect and conserve ancient temples. “Any temple in an area of more than half acre under the control the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment Department (HR&CE) must be enhanced with safety features. There should be response teams in every large temple complex for quick action in the event of disasters,” she said.
 
  Recently, Chennai district collectorate had organised a meeting with administrators of all the religious institutions in the district and instructed them to come out with an SOP within six months.
 
 When contacted, an HR&CE official said the department was in the “advanced stage” of readying an SOP for Kapaleeswarar Temple and Sri Parthasarathyswamy Temple. 
 
 “These would be a manual containing the blueprint of these temples and details about the nearest public health centre and fire stations,” the official said. Based on it, similar plans would be prepared for other temples including Thiyagarajaswamy Temple at Tiruvouttiyur, the official added.
 
 
