NEW DELHI: Vijaydeep was the sole breadwinner for his family of four. His old parents thought their son was busy at his gym and hadn’t gone to the party. Around 12.30am, they received a call about the incident and were called to the hospital. 

 “Someone on the line said that Vijaydeep got ‘slight’ injuries on his head, but when we rushed to the hospital, we were told he has died,” said his inconsolable younger brother, Vikramdeep. He said his brother was very enthusiastic about fitness and had been supporting the entire family from whatever money he made through the gym. After making some profit from the first gym, he opened another in Fateh Nagar. 
 
 “My brother had never been in any   ever. He rarely met his friends, but was always there to shield them when they needed him. Sunday evening was no different. All he was trying to do was intervene and protect his friend, but the situation worsened and the   got a knife and attacked my brother and his friend,” Vikramdeep said. 
 
 “The DJ had been playing songs on request in between and so we thought he would do the same with the last song as well. So when he said that this is the last song, we requested for another. Since I thought that he cannot notice us signalling at him, I went up to his console, but things only turned worse and he removed my patka,” said Rajinder. “We had cut the birthday cake just a few minutes before the DJ announced the last song, and I requested him to change the song only so that we could at least enjoy the last song on our friend’s birthday. Nobody could even imagine something as bad as this could happen,” he added.
 
 The accused, DJ Yuri alias Deepak Bisht, started DJing after getting inspired by his best friend’s brother, who is a well-known DJ in Gurgaon. After assisting him for almost a year, he took off independently and started working at nightclubs in Gurgaon for two years. Bisht, who is also the sole breadwinner of his family, had apparently never had a brawl before. 
 
 Later, when his family decided to shift to Sant Nagar in Burari, he planned to take up a job in Delhi itself. It was his first job at Raftaar. Police said he has no criminal record. 
 
 When produced in court, Bisht broke down and said he killed Vijaydeep in a fit of rage when attacked. Bisht is also the sole breadwinner of his family. His father is a retired government official and mother a homemaker.
 
 
