AHMEDABAD: The   on Monday observed there was a need to criminalize   in order to provide protection to married women and said that lawmakers should not fear misuse of the provisions.

 The   said, “Marital rape is not an offence in our country as the belief is that it could become a potent weapon in the hands of an unscrupulous wife to harass her husband and become a phenomenon which may destabilize the institution of marriage. Marital rape is a widespread problem for a woman that has existed for centuries throughout the world. This problem has received relatively little attention from the criminal justice system and the society a whole.”
 
 While quashing a charge of rape against a doctor levelled by his wife,   cited numerous laws such as those in 50 states in the US, three states in Australia, New Zealand and European nations where marital rape is illegal.
 
 The HC also cited various surveys and researches that revealed that Indian women are subjected to marital rape, but they are helpless. Asking the legislature to criminalize sexual assaults on women by their husbands, the HC said, “The controversy over the issue of marital rape stems from the failure of the IPC to criminalize it.”
 
 Justice Pardiwala also cited Dr B R Ambedkar, who was in favour of making marital rape a criminal offence, and said, “I wonder how Dr B R Ambedkar would have seen the present day scenario when no one is willing to even discuss to reform the criminalization of marital rape.”
 
 The HC said, “The total statutory abolition of the marital rape exemption is the first necessary step in teaching societies that dehumanized treatment of women will not be tolerated and that marital rape is not a husband's privilege, but rather a violent act and an injustice that must be criminalized.” Advocating for equality of women, the HC said, “A woman in this country can protect her right to life and liberty, but not her body within her marriage.” Only criminalizing this act can raise “a moral boundary that informs the society that a punishment results if the boundary is transgressed,” said the HC.
 
 
