CHENNAI: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption ( ) has uncovered a scam where the general secretary of the TN Yogasana Association in Madurai has allegedly swindled the grant issued by the Sports Development Authority of   (SDAT) under the guise of conducting a yogasana competition. 

 In addition, they allegedly collected a   of Rs 5,000 from sportspersons for participation in a national level yoga competition.
 
 The FIR registered on Tuesday has named N Ramalingam, the general secretary as the accused and booked him for corruption, forgery and   breach of trust based on complaints received from people in Pattabiram, Chennai.
 
 DVAC said that the TN Yogasana association was recognised under the category of non-Olympic sport by the SDAT and hence was eligible for grants for conducting state and national level competitions up to Rs 50,000 and Rs 2 lakh respectively. 
 
 If number of participants are less than 250, only 50 percent of grant is sanctioned. Dearness allowance, train fare, travelling allowance, track suit, T-shirt, shoes and socks is provided to the participants.
 
 L Sandhiya, A Prasannan and G Rakesh, all residents of Chennai in August 2015 had won district and state level competitions and were eligible to represent in the national yoga sports championship for 2015-16, DVAC said.
 
 DVAC said Ramalingam demanded Rs 7,000 each from the three participants through Vijayamohanrao, coach of Tiruvallur district Yogasana association for sending their names to the Yoga federation India to be held in Mangalore in January 2016. He later reduced it to Rs 5,000 per person. Rao collected the amount and sent it through NEFT to Ramalingam.
 
 DVAC said that later Ramalingam forged the signature of the three participants in the acquaintance form and falsely claimed the SDAT grant for dearness allowance for a Madurai camp in December 2015. 
 
 He also claimed Rs 1.37 lakh from SDAT for expenses incurred in conducting coaching camps by the state association ahead of the national championship and for uniform materials, sports kits, shoes, medical allowance and journey allowance to the three participants.
 
 DVAC said Ramalingam also enclosed a list of disbursement of dearness allowance with the forged acknowledgment of the three participants who had not actually participated in the coaching camp at Madurai.
 
 DVAC found that two of them were in school in Chennai when the camp was being held, while another was searching for a job in Chennai. They did not sign the acknowledgment list produced by Ramalingam.
 
