Vijayawada: Good teachers prepare their students for examinations, life, and for society, said Dr MC Das, professor and management consultant at MCD Associates, who participated in the  . Preparation for life and society are missing in teaching now a days, he added.

 Teaching is both a science and art, and there is a word for it — pedagogy, Das said. “It’s a sad situation in the colleges and schools today. In some institutions teaching is taking place, but learning is not happening,” he added.
 
 “Readers are leaders,” Das observed. “Those who read newspapers become leaders. Those who watch television can never become leaders. As principal, you have to inculcate the habit of reading in students.”
 
 Is learning really taking place in educational institutions, he questioned. “Principals should be the role models of their teachers,” he said. “I am sorry to say that I have come across some institutions where the principals never enter the classrooms.” He said something needed to be done to improve the situation that said he was happy that TOI has started made a beginning in this area.
 
 The principals should teach in the classrooms for at least three days in a week, he said, adding that teachers will then learn the techniques of teaching from the principals. “We are making our students to listen. We are not even making them to see. We listen, we forget. When we see we remember. Only when we do that we learn,” he said.
 
 One has to do something to learn, Das said. “Human brain is powerful provided it is trained, and an untrained brain is useless and can be dangerous,” he added.
 
 What is happening in the classrooms today is that the students are made to do nothing, he observed. Skills cannot be developed by just listening and seeing, but only by doing something, he added.
 
 Taking the example of water (H20), he said students know that water is in the form of liquid, but then, how to make them comprehend the applications of what they learn. “About 2.5 per cent of water in the world is fresh water, and about 0.8 per cent of that water is in ponds, rivers and oceans,” he said, and added that such information will tell the students more about water and make them think about water differently. Then teach them the applications of water, he added.
 
 
