MUMBAI: Only students who have cleared classes X and XII from Maharashtra and possess a domicile certificate will be eligible for   in the state’s medical colleges this year.

 The rule, which was sought to be implemented by the state’s   (DMER) last year but was stayed by the   bench of the Bombay high court, will be applied again this year for admissions.
 
 DMER director Dr   said the rule was implemented last year to ensure Maharashtra students get a fair chance over students from outside the state. “Most other states strictly follow the domicile policy and our students rarely get admission outside. Students from outside the state can always apply for seats under the all-India quota,” said Shingare.
 
 The state also plans to challenge the HC stay on the domicile policy for postgraduate medical admissions granted last week. DMER has sought the law and judiciary department’s opinion and, if it gets a go-ahead, will move SC.
 
 The court’s stay last year for undergraduate admissions was ordered only for the petitioners and, therefore, does not apply to the current year, he added. The decision has been taken, but the brochure is yet to be published. The admission process will start after NEET-UG results are declared. NEET is scheduled to be held on May 6.
 
 Till 2016, students who had either completed class X and XII from Maharashtra or students who completed class XII from here and also had a valid domicile were eligible for 85% of the state’s seats. Last year, the state made all three requirements mandatory, making a set of students who had completed their class X from outside the state but done their Plus II from the state ineligible. This group had moved court and sought relief.
 
 A DMER official said parents of such students claimed that they stayed near the state’s borders and therefore, it was often more convenient to send their children to schools that were a few kilometres away from their residence in other states. The bench had observed that the policy cannot be applied retrospectively.
 
 The official said the state will fight the case if parents move court again this year. There are around 2,800 seats in medical colleges in the state. “The competition to get a seat in medical colleges is fierce and our students usually don’t get benefit in other states. They are forced to apply under the all-India quota. Even one mark makes a huge difference in NEET ranks and our students should get a fair chance,” said a parent of a student from Mumbai. However, she added that the state needs to represent their case efficiently in courts.
 
 Since 2016, when admissions to private medical colleges too came under DMER, the requirement of domicile was made mandatory even for private college aspirants.
 
 
