LUDHIANA: Only a day to go for the start of the nomination process for Ludhiana MC elections, ticket seekers from the BJP and Congress are jittery as both the parties are yet to announce their candidates.

 Only the   (SAD) has announced candidates for 38 wards so far and is likely to disclose the rest of candidates for 10 wards by Wednesday.
 
 Importantly, 38 SAD candidates have been running their campaigns in full throttle. They felt they would have an edge over their rivals, mainly from the Congress, due to delay in finalization of candidates.
 
 Ranjit Singh Dhillon, SAD district president, said, “We have announced 38 candidates already while Congress is still thinking on aspirants. The party is delaying the announcement, fearing that its candidates would lose against the SAD nominees.”
 
 Dhillon said, “There is no doubt that this delay will prove costly to the Congress and will give us an advantage over them as our candidates have already covered a significant part of wards as part of their campaigns.”
 
 Meetpal Singh Dugri, SAD candidate from Ward 44, said, “There is a lot of difference between SAD and our rivals. Unlike the Congress which first asked ticket seekers to apply and then sat over the selection process for days, SAD has allotted tickets purely on the basis of merit to deserving candidates.”
 
 “Our tickets were announced on February 3 which has given us sufficient time to campaign and go to public and project the developmental works done by our party during its tenure and expose the misdeeds of Congress,” Dugri added.
 
 MLA and Senior Congress leader Surinder Dawar said, “There has been no delay in announcing the candidates. In fact, our party is following proper democratic procedure for MC elections unlike other parties. The names of deserving candidates will be announced by party high command in consultation with all senior leaders including MP and MLAs. It is beyond doubt that regardless of any propaganda by our rivals, we will sweep the MC elections with a thumping majority.”
 
 
