Even as the city residents reel under the scorching heat and   scarcity due to depleting groundwater level, the tanker drivers are laughing their way to the bank by forcing parched residents to shell out extra money for the water meant to be distributed free.

 An RTI petition filed by Times of India has revealed that the   is paying Rs 715 to the water tankers to distribute one load of water. But the distributers are illegally collecting money from residents for the water meant for free distribution. A total of 36 trucks and 25 tractors from four private transport agencies have been engaged on contract for the distribution of water in the city.
 
 According to residents, there is also disparity in the distribution of water, as the truck drivers neglect the areas if the residents question the money collection or refuse to pay. It is solely up to the driver to decide as to how much money has to be collected from the residents.
 
 In areas like Vandiyur, Rs 20 is collected from each house and the residents are allowed to collect as many pots as they want until the water gets over. In some areas, residents’ association itself takes up the job of collecting the money and hand it over to the drivers. In places like  , tokens are issued on the previous day of water distribution.
 
 While the old city has pipe lines, the extended areas located on the periphery of the old city are covered through the tankers. Although, a total of 61 lakh litres of water is being supplied through tankers a day, the civic body has not bothered to buy even a single truck on its own in 10 years. It has only one vehicle, which was bought at Rs 16.50 lakh in 2008, the civic body has replied.
 
 Syed Ahamed Basha, a resident of Yagappa Nagar, said earlier tokens were issues a day before the distribution of water. When they took up the issue to the higher officials, it came down. However, it happened again in VOC Nagar First Street last week. "Each token sold at Rs 10 is valid for 10 pots of water. Due to water scarcity only six pots are given at present," he said.
 
 S Mubarak, a resident of Alagar Nagar near Moondrumavadi said that they expect Rs 10 from each house; however it is not being demanded firmly. Residents too do not hesitate to cough up the money as water has become scarce ever since the summer started setting in.
 
 P S Vasumathi from Anaiyur said that they do not question the practice of collecting money since they do not want to take a risk of losing water. "What if the truck does not turn up the next time? With the groundwater level going down we could not rely on it and we are dependent of the water supplied by trucks," she said.
 
 A truck driver on the condition of anonymity said that they are not forcing anyone and would receive only if they give voluntarily. "We are paid poorly and are forced to take the money, whenever it is offered," he said.
 
 When contacted, corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar said that they too have received such complaints and they are forming special squads to check the complaints. "If the complaints are trued, the contractor would be black listed," he said.
 
 
