KOLKATA: With boom barriers failing to handle the huge pedestrian traffic at the   crossing of Asutosh Mukherjee Road and AJC Bose Road, the Kolkata Police and   have finalized the construction of a foot-over bridge (FOB), parallel to the   flyover so that people do not have to risk their lives to walk across the thoroughfare. At a length of 20m, it will possibly the shortest FOB in the city.

 Exide crossing, after that of Park Street, is the busiest crossing in the city, with a huge footfall, thanks to a large number of offices and schools located in the vicinity. “Managing the mammoth pedestrian traffic is an arduous task at the crossing, even though a large number of cars no longer use the road but take the flyover above,” said a senior engineer at the traffic and transportation planning directorate.
 
 The stretch across Asutosh Mukherjee Road, between the two   station gates, has been selected for the FOB as according to a departmental study, most pedestrians cross the road at that point, said  , deputy commissioner (traffic), Kolkata Police. “Among all the four ends at this intersection, the stretch between the two Metro stations is most by pedestrians. That holds up traffic for minutes on end. So, that very spot has been selected for the bridge,” said Kumar. The cost of the foot overberidge will be borne by a corporate entity. The facility will have escalators as well as lifts for pedestrians’ convenience.
 
 But questions are being raised on how much the FOB would be used and the fate of the boom barriers installed at all the eight ends of the Exide crossing last month. FOBs across the city are severely under-utilized, putting a question mark on its utility. Even at accident-prone crossings, such as at Gariahat, Dhakuria and Sealdah, FOBs are hardly used despite the presence of elevators to access them.
 
 “There has been a delay in starting the boom barriers as the KMC is carrying out some civil work to plug the gaps that people use to dodge the bars. But they will start functioning from this month. When the FOB is ready, we will uninstall the two boom barriers across the road at that spot,” Kumar said.
 
 At Exide, pedestrians can also use the Metro subway to cross the road. “But the subway is seldom used. To force pedestrians to use the FOB, we will put up guard rails on the divider,” said Kumar.
 
