MUMBAI/DELHI: In a massive show of strength, 22 members of the   ( ) met at a five-star hotel in Delhi, some over teleconference, on Saturday to discuss its worsening relations with the Supreme Court-appointed   ( ).

 
 Chaired by the former BCCI president  , the meeting expressed “disappointment” over a flurry of “unilateral” decisions that the CoA has taken that render the working committee of the BCCI largely ineffective.
 
 
 The board members strongly believe that the CoA decisions have been taken without consultation of the board’s general body, a process they say is “enshrined” in the rules and regulations to be followed.
 
 An internal note – a copy of which is with TOI – was circulated among the members highlighting close to a dozen instances where decisions have been taken “unilaterally” by the CoA. The members decided to go to the Supreme Court to raise these issues.
 
 The BCCI members have come down heavily on the CoA-led decision to “reduce” the minimum bid value in the Invitation to Tender (ITT) for India’s bilateral rights. To top it, the members have unanimously taken exception to the manner in which the entire process has been handled by two members of the CoA, the CEO and BCCI’s legal team.
 
 
  
  
 
 A total of 22 members of BCCI participated in the meeting. Of these, 19 members – Bengal, Himachal, Baroda, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Hyderabad, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Saurashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Rajasthan, Railways, Goa, National Cricket Club (NCC), Cricket Club of India (CCI) and the Services Board – were present at the meeting.   (KCA) connected with the members during the meeting via teleconference while Gujarat – which is headed by BJP president   – and Orissa could not connect.
 
 The office-bearers of the BCCI are all set to call for a Special General Meeting (SGM) “as early as possible” to set these matters for the record. “This matter will also be brought up for cognizance of the Supreme Court when the hearing happens. What is happening now borders on the illegal and the constitution of the BCCI has been thrown into the dustbin by individuals who have been given no such authority by the country’s highest court,” office-bearers of the BCCI told TOI soon after the Saturday meeting.s
 
 
