MUMBAI: Researchers at IIT-Bombay have suggested that   could be good news after all, for generating power using off-shore   (from the sea bed). Debunking fears that the changing climate could have an adverse impact on power generation from offshore wind, researchers have concluded that Indian government should aggressively install their plants.

 
 The   has identified three locations – Kanyakumari, Rameshwaram and Jakhau – along the Indian coastline for their offshore wind farms. In a study published in the Royal Meteorological Society and Journal of Meteorological Applications, researchers at the Powai institute, have claimed that the rising sea temperatures will benefit the off-shore wind farms at these locations. 
 
 
 In fact, they conclude that the annual “average wind potential obtained at these sites might undergo a substantial increase over the next three decades as compared to the past three. It is expected to significantly rise to about 25%”. However, this will be subjected to variations in the average wind potential over the monsoon and non-monsoon months. The study predicts that different sites are differently impacted by climate change; some show an increase in the power potential while it may drop at other places.
 
 
 Professors Sumeet Kulkarni, M C Deo and Subimal Ghosh from the institute, who co-authored the paper ‘Framework for assessment of climate change impact on offshore wind energy’ have made use of the General Circulation Model (GCM) to study the impact of climate change in the specified locations.
 
 
 “An earlier study by India’s National Institute of Ocean Technology, Chennai has found that moving from onshore to offshore platforms results in increasing the capital cost by 111 %, but this is more than compensated by the rise in power production by 184%”, added professor Deo.
 
 
 Wind energy contributes to 12% of installed power in India. At present, most of this comes from the wind farms located on land. The IIT-B research approves the feasibility of government’s ambitious plans of expanding energy generation from off-shore wind farms in the next five years.
 
 
