A cricketer-turned-TV presenter and host,   has been a busy man presenting a number of TV shows across different sports channels in the country. We caught up with Chennai boy Suhail, who has also acted in Tamil films, for a candid chat.

 Suhail, who comes from a sporting background (former racing and rally driver, Vicky Chandhok, is his father, F1 racer   is his elder brother), was a cricketer himself until he was forced to discontinue the game due to an injury. “I always wanted to be a sportsman; it is nothing quite like being on the field and I miss that. Once I had my third surgery and I had to stop playing, it led me into depression for many months. I really found it difficult to find out what I wanted to do next. But, as second innings I couldn’t have asked for a better job, because I am closely related to sports as a presenter. I would call it a wonderful stroke of luck and I also took the opportunity that came my way.”
 
 Suhail has presented a number of sports shows — on cricket, football, kabaddi, motorsports, hockey, tennis and even the Olympics. What challenges him the most? “Each sport has been a unique challenge, but for me, the most unique of them all was kabaddi. I had never done commentary for any other sport until then and it had been my dream to do commentary for sports. Kabaddi was a new entity for the country back then, I had to learn more about the rules and had no access to the players, because there was nothing online about the players except for a few reports on international mathces. It was challenging to understand the intricacies of the game. As a commentator, you need to bring more than what meets the eye. So, to get more details on the sport, I needed to talk to a lot of former players, coaches, current players personally. Kabaddi was an extremely unique experience and it was mind-blowing to have done commentary on the sport.”
 
  
 He covered the   2018 auctions, which is the most watched IPL auctions in the history of IPL. Talking about that experience he says, “Firstly, being a Chennai boy, it feels special to see Chennai Super Kings making a comeback. It was really special to host the IPL auctions, because there were a lot of faces I remembered from my playing days and there were others who I had met while presenting shows. It was really nice to have the familiarity. As the numbers suggested it was the most viewed IPL auction in the history, from that point of view, it was highly productive as well.”
 
 “I have been working with Star Sports Tamil channel and I have been presenting kabaddi and cricket in Tamil. When you have local heroes and icons playing the game, it is nice to portray them in the local language, because the reach is much wider. It is very important to give quality shows to people in every language, and I really enjoy doing shows in Tamil,” he shares, when asked about vernacular sports channels.
 
 Suhail has also acted in Kollywood films Arrambam and Veeram. He played one of Ajith’s four younger brothers in the film Veeram. Has he signed any films after Veeram? “I haven’t signed anything since then. Actually, I had to say no to two projects in 2015 and 2016 because of my TV programme schedules. Sadly, it has been the case for me since Veeram. But, this year I have got a lot of time freed up, so, this is the year for me to re-enter films, it is something I love doing. I learned a lot from  , Santhanam, Tamannaah and   sir after the film. I definitely want to re-enter Tamil cinema and I think this is the year to do it.”
 
  
 Sharing his experience of working with Ajith he says, “Working with Ajith was a phenomenal experience, we became really good friends off the sets. We rode bike together and actually went on a long ride from Chennai to Kotagiri. We shared a really nice bond — in terms of riding, photography — we would chat about sports and he is someone who I looked up to as a mentor. I am still in touch with him, we regularly share what we read with each other. I admire his humility, not only him even Shalu ( ). Both are wonderful human beings, forget them as actors, they are genuine people. It is hard to find someone who is extremely generous and humble like Ajith. On day one of Veeram, on the sets, when he saw me nervous he made me feel absolutely comfortable, then I never felt like a new comer, that’s his energy and persona.” 
 
 
 
