“When cupid strikes, you start believing in miracles,” says actress   who has chosen the month of romance – February – to announce the news of her relationship with co-actor and restaurateur   Singh Gandhi.   and Jaskaran have been in a relationship for two years now. They met on the sets of Do Dil   and instantly became friends. Ridheema said, “Both of us carried past relationships’ baggage and so we were not sure about each other when we became friends. People kept writing about us and asking us if we are dating each other, but we had to be sure of our relationship to speak about it. For a long time I believed that the word ‘soulmate’ did not exist for mortals and it is always better to use it when you are writing poetry. But after I met Jaskaran I realized that here was someone who was putting my happiness first. I have never been so sure about anyone in my life. He is someone who truly makes me happy. With a correct partner and mindset, I realise that every small misunderstanding or disagreement falls in place. Nothing is big deal for us now. We have understood the importance of ‘us’. Jaskaran is my fitness trainer too and we love travelling together. He has a great sense of humour and always makes me laugh.”

 Contrary to rumours of a February wedding, the couple has no plans to tie the knot till next year. Jaskaran says, “We plan to marry next year and we have our parents’ blessings. In fact, my parents love her very much. Ridheema came into my life when I was going through a tough phase. There was a time when I did not want to make new friends and she guided me to look towards a brighter future. She is the kind of woman every man would want to be with for the rest of his life. After meeting her I vouch for the statement; Behind every successful man lies a woman. She has pushed me into my career, motivated me and been there for me.”
 
 The couple also do not have plans to move in with each other. Ridheema says, “He is my Man Friday and always there for me, but I would disrespect my parents if I were to move in with him. Since we both belong to middle class families, I don’t think it would be approved of. But all the rumours of a February 3 wedding in Pune are false.”
 
 Both Ridheema and Jaskaran were earlier married but they want to put the past behind. She says, “When you only want happiness for each other, it is a state of bliss and right now we are enjoying that.”
 
 
 
  
 
