NAGPUR: It was a feeling of Déjà Vu on Monday for Chanda Devi Saraf (CDS) school as its students swept all three spots in city with Kshipra Motikar’s 98% being the highest. Motikar’s score also happens to be the second-highest ever for   in Nagpur, as she ended marginally behind her schoolmate Shreyashi Saha’s (2017 batch) 98.2%. 

 This year’s second and third spots were secured by Amisha Khobragade (96.6%) and Rajiv Yadav (95.6%) thus helping CDS to hold on to its unique record of clean sweeps. Girls continued to dominate the city’s   landscape as since 2015, they have been staking a claim to the top post. 
 
 Various students from across the city spoke to TOI about which subjects dragged their percentage down and English and maths seemed to be a common factor. Badrul Jamali Huzefa Ali (91.6%), student of MSB Educational Institute, said, “I was hoping to score more than 94%, so I am a little disheartened with the  . If I had practised a little more for Mathematics, I think I would have achieved a better score.” Sumedh Ramteke (89%), student of Seventh Day Adventist School, said, “English was a sore spot for me since the grammar part was quite challenging. I scored 86 marks in physics, which I could have easily gained more with a little bit of more practice. I don’t think I will pursue future education in ICSE board because it’s tougher to score.” Rashi Choudhary (90.8%), student of Chanda Devi Saraf school, said, “Mathematics definitely dragged down my percentage multiple notches, I was hoping to score above 95 but scored below 90 marks. I am contemplating to challenge it and hope that the revaluated score looks better on my mark-sheet.” Himanshu Salve (91.6%), student of Seventh Day Adventist, said, “I was hoping for a score above 90% and I felt that if I hadn’t skipped a few topics back while preparing for exams, I think I could have scored more.”
 
 Nagpur has just four schools affiliated to and from this year onwards, only Std X (known as ICSE) will be operational. Approximately 350 students appeared for the Std X exams, making ICSE board the one with least enrolment in Nagpur. Though the board’s official name is Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), it is popularly known as ICSE which is the certificate it awards to students who pass Std X. 
 
 
