Wednesday was the sixth consecutive day when the   in the country saw a rise. Currently, petrol costs approximately Rs 84.83 per litre in the city and the constant increase in the price has burnt a big hole in the pockets of students who have stayed back during the holidays for their internships and volunteer work. Living on a limited budget, these youngsters have taken to   and the   for some respite.

 Sachin Asha Subhash, a student who also runs an NGO with a group of friends, says, “One fourth of our monthly budget goes into fuel expenses for travelling. The rate at which fuel prices are going up right now will leave us with no money for anything else.”
 
 So, to counter that, we have started bike pooling. Most of the times, friends staying on the same route travel together and share the expense.” For Sanket Deshpande, a law student who is interning with a senior lawyer, and his fellow mates, the day starts with listing the work that needs to be done. “We have started planning what to do through the day so that we can figure ways of completing it in one go. We have stopped using individual vehicles and move around on one bike only.” In fact, youngster Pratik Mardhekar even offers to help out his neighbours sometimes. “If they are going someplace that falls on my way, I ask them to tag along and we share the petrol expenses,” he shares.
 
  
 While bike pooling is an option, there are many others who have decided to ditch their vehicles altogether. Many of them have cleared the dust from their personal bicycles and brought them back on the road. The 
 Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited's ( ) public bicycle sharing system has also come to the rescue of youngsters who don’t want to spend on fuel. Sachin says, “At times we use our bikes to travel only up to an area that has the bicycle sharing system. We park our vehicles nearby and use the cycles to complete our work.”
 
 Adding to it, Dnyaneshwr Kakade, another student, says that he has mostly been using his bicycle to travel in the city. He said, “Earlier, I used to cycle only for exercising. Now, I use it for my work purposes as well.”
 
  
 The heat is another factor that is affecting Puneites. Coupled with the fuel price rise, this has left students with hardly any options. Though many brave the heat and travel on two-wheelers or bicycles, others prefer using public transport. Dipali Sindhu Tej, a student, informs, “This is the admission season and we have to run around to get documents in place. Most of the times, I use public transport as it gives me respite from the scorching heat and saves on fuel cost as well.”
 
