KOLKATA: Biased counselling is preventing a section of women in the state from opting for a contraception method which suits them. While the number of such women may not be big, it is still hurting the family planning efforts, say experts and doctors. Improper counselling is resulting in women rejecting IUD (copper T) or discontinuing other methods like birth-control injections and pills even after being introduced to them post childbirth in government hospitals. Deficiency in training may be prompting counsellors to sell certain methods ahead of others, said family planning experts. Only 57% of women in   use family planning methods.

 A constant challenge is ensuring quality counselling, according to  , member, The Bengal Obstetric and  . “Service providers are often biased and influence women to use certain contraceptive methods. They should be sensitised on using a rights-based approach to family planning and promote voluntary and informed decision making. Often, their bias stems from the fact that they are more acquainted with a certain method. They must realise women should exercise the right to make decisions about their body and use a contraceptive of their choice,” said Mukherjee. He added “Counsellors should speak to the woman at length to ascertain if her lifestyle permits a particular method.”
 
 Inconvenience or discomfiture with an IUD or side-effects of the progesterone pill that aren’t explained is making women to opt out of family planning, pointed experts. “There have been instances where a method is used without consent or proper explanation. In other cases, IUDs have been recommended and implanted without gauging if it’ll suit the particular woman,” said a government hospital medic.
 
 Supratip Mazumdar, branch manager, Family Planning Association of India, agreed. “Lack of information on contraceptives fuels myths and misconceptions among both counsellors and the general public. There is a need to raise awareness and dispel wrong ideas about various methods,” said Mazumdar. He added side-effects or complications from previous contraceptives often inhibit women from using new contraceptive methods out of fear.
 
 Cultural and religious opposition to certain methods of contraception make it mandatory to widen the basket of choice, argued experts.   (42) said, “I have four kids and my husband was averse to sterilisation. But when I learnt about the injection from family planning workers and spoke to him about it, he was agreeable. I’m taking the injection every three months for many years now.”
 
