BHOPAL:In the run-up to the assembly polls slated this year-end, voters’ lists are turning out to be a major political issue in  . The state election office has deleted over 10 lakh ‘dead, shifted and absent’ voters since the row first erupted in February this year ahead of the   and Kolaras bypolls.

  
 After top   leaders met the EC on Sunday and accused the BJP government in Madhya Pradesh of including 60 lakh “fake voters” in the electoral rolls,   media cell chief Manak Agarwal said: “They have got fake voters in all the constituencies of the state. These bogus voters make up 12% of the electorate and their names were added with the help of district collectors. In 2013, we lost the assembly election by 7% votes. If there were no bogus voters, then we would not have lost.”
 
 BJP put up a brave face with its chief spokesperson,  , saying: “BJP believes in democracy and we contest and win elections by making public opinion. Congress has used these tricks in the past also. Recently, a large number of fake voter identity cards were found in the house of a Congress worker in Karnataka. When there was a Congress government in Madhya Pradesh, 1,200 voter identity cards were found in the house of a voter and EC had taken action. Congress is not in a condition to face the people and contest elections, so it is doing these things.”
 
 After the Congress complaint on Sunday, ECI constituted four teams to probe the allegations in Narela, Bhojpur, Hoshangabad and Seoni-Malwa constituencies.
 
 The first time voter rolls sparked a high voltage war in the run-up to election was during the Mungaoli and Kolaras bypolls in February this year. Much like Sunday, Congress leaders met EC and held a dramatic press meet, showing 90 pages of photocopied documents to allege that the same voters were shown on two or even three lists. In one case, a seven-year-old child’s photograph has been used for a 31-year-old woman, who is a voter in another booth as well, Congress said.
 
 It triggered a sensation. With a week to go for voting, EC asked for reports from collectors of Shivpuri and Guna. Three days later, EC removed the Ashok Nagar collector for irregularities in voters’ list and ordered that a list of dead, shifted and duplicate voters be given to every returning officer for verification during polling.
 
 Since then, more than 10 lakh dead, shifted and absent voters have been removed from the Madhya Pradesh electoral rolls. Office of the chief electoral officer, Madhya Pradesh, has identified around 13,19,644 such names on the list, said a top official.
 
 During the check, nearly 1.8 lakh voters were proved genuine in door-to-door verification and about 1.1 lakh are under scrutiny, said a senior official. “Identification, verification and removal of names from voters’ list is a continuous process and it is being carried out in the state to ensure that there are no discrepancies in the list,” added the official. EC officials identified around 6.73 lakh dead, shifted and absentee voters during revision of voters’ list between March 15 and April 7 this year.
 
