GREATER NOIDA: Residents of sector Beta 1 complained of unauthorised paying guest (PG) accommodations running in the sector, garbage and unclean green belt and rampant encroachment in the area with no redress to the problem.

 “Paying guest accommodations have mushroomed in all the sectors of Greater Noida which are leading to many problems. Students living in these PG houses get home late, have late night parties and create a ruckus getting all drunk. When questioned, they resort to fist fights and abuse. Women are unable to step out of their homes at night as many of these PGs are occupied by anti-social elements,” said  , RWA general secretary sector Beta 1, Greater Noida who has written to Debashish Panda, CEO Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) on the matter.
 
 Bhati adds that many a times tenant verification drive was carried out in the sectors but the house owners did not make the effort to participate in such drives. As a result the PG accommodations continue unheeded and unverified. “The landlords are not interested in who is occupying their homes as many reside in neighbouring cities of Delhi, Faridabad etc. and are only interested in collecting rent from letting out their property. I’ve asked GNIDA CEO to clarify whether private homes in residential sectors can be let-out for commercial activities such as PGs and if not, immediate steps should be taken for their closure so that women and children can step out of their homes without the fear of encountering anti-social elements from these PGs,” said Bhati.
 
 Other problems raised by the residents include rampant encroachment in commercial and residential areas/sectors of Greater Noida. “Areas like Jagat Farm, Pari Chowk, green belt of  , area from Ansal plaza to Teja market, sector Pi 3 market, in front of Vanish mall, Alpha 1 commercial belt as well as every roundabout and almost all sectors of Greater Noida are encroached. GNIDA officials do not want to step out of their offices and take action. And whenever there are any proceedings, somehow the information is leaked to the kiosk and thelewalas who withdraw from the area for a while only to reappear again,” said Bhati.
 
 “While small kiosks are spiralling into permanent encroachments and dhabas in the area, roads are being usurped by homeless and small daily vendors. Talks on dedicated vendor zones have not taken off and residents/commuters face the brunt of all this lack of planning and inaction,” said Subodh Nigam, a resident of Greater Noida.
 
 Apart from PG home mess and encroachment, the residents also raise concern on unclean green belts especially the one near Neha nursery and   in sector Beta 1. “No upkeep of the green belt takes place nor are the parks watered. We have complained to senior managers of GNIDA but there have been no action on the matter so far,” said Ritu Bansal, resident of sector Beta 1.
 
