TRICHY: A 30-year-old woman was killed after a traffic inspector allegedly kicked the two-wheeler on which she was travelling with her husband at   near   on Wednesday evening. The accused, inspector  , was arrested and was to be remanded, police said.

 The deceased was identified as Usha of a village near Papanasam in Thanjavur district. The incident occurred near the Ganesha roundabout opposite BHEL quarters at Thuvakudi on the Trichy–Thanjavur national highway.   was riding the bike with his wife Usha on the pillion seat. Meanwhile, a police team attached to Trichy rural police was carrying out a helmet checking drive near Thuvakudi toll plaza before the roundabout around 7 pm. According to eyewitnesses, the policemen asked Raja to stop the two-wheeler, but he ignored it and moved on. 
 
 The incident seemed to irritate the police officer, Kamaraj, who mounted another two-wheeler and chased the bike. He allegedly kicked the bike making it wobble and both the husband and wife fell on the ground. 
 
 
 
 
 While Usha sustained a head injury, Raja was also seriously injured. When people started gathering on the spot, Kamaraj fled the scene. However, police sources claimed that Kamaraj denied having kicked the vehicle.
 
 Disputing this, Rajendran, an employee of BHEL who witnessed the incident, confirmed having seen the police inspector kicking the bike. The issue was brought to the notice of the superintendent of police, P S C   who ordered the arrest of the inspector. “The inspector has been taken under our custody and will be remanded soon,” P S C Kalyan told TOI.
 
 Usha and Raja were taken to the government hospital in Thuvakudi where Usha was declared dead. The accused inspector, Kamaraj, was also admitted to the hospital as he claimed to have been injured. The family and relatives of the couple were on their way to Thuvakudi government hospital. Usha was believed to have been pregnant though the police said that it could be confirmed only after post-mortem. It was yet to be known as to why the couple came all the way to Trichy from Papanasam on a bike.
 
 Since a huge number of people gathered at the spot and protested against the police, traffic was affected on the Thanjavur- Trichy national highway for a few hours. Police officials visited the spot and tried to pacify the protesting people.
 
 
