POINGUINIM: For the 6,000-odd population of   village, summer is a nightmare as, every year, they face water shortage during these months. During these dry hot months, the village, which is supplied government water from the Chapoli dam, receives water only every alternate day. Irked villagers allege that poor management of the overhead water tank at Betul and failure to tap the perennial Mudkud river as an alternate source is responsible for their woes.

 Junior engineer   told TOI that there are two tanks to supply water to Agonda, but as the area to be covered is greater than the individual tank capacity, water is supplied on alternate days. As to why the department does not supply these areas with water tankers, he said tanker services had been stopped from last year. 
 
 He said the available water source from Mudkud river was too weak as the existing bunds along the river had worn out and were causing water leakage. Only when this problem is rectified can the water woes of Agonda villagers be solved, he said, adding that the weak water source made it impossible to pump water to the overhead Betul water tank.
 
 Seventeen years ago, an overhead storage tank was built at Betul. However, with no authority claiming the right to use it, this tank is not being used. Villagers of Agonda said that the tank has the capacity and height to supply water to the entire village and that if properly tapped, the Mudkud river could be used as a water source. 
 
 Assistant engineer from Quepem, who looks after the existing bandhara on the Mudkud river, said minor repairs work on the old bund have been tendered.
 
 Agonda sarpanch Pramod Phaldesi told TOI while the supply from Chapoli dam was insufficient the waters of Mudkud river could not be used till the government put in place the required infrastructure. “Besides the river, water of Deva Tallem in Parvem could be also used,” he said, adding that for this too infrastructure would have to be put in place.
 
 “A minor irrigation tank of 5 MLD has been proposed at Mudkud, but the process of getting the NOC is proceeding at a slow pace,” he alleged. 
 
 The residents of Betul, parts of Parvem and Davalkhazan, Miranda Vaddo, Chakttem and Karaxermol A and B also face a similar water problem.
 
 Resident of Miranda Vaddo, Jessy Miranda, said that in such a situation it was the responsibility of the department concerned to supply water through alternative means. “Tankers will help out with drinking water needs, but what about water for other needs like bathing, washing clothes,” she said.
 
 
