GHAZIABAD: A Ghaziabad couple have sought protection from the Allahabad high court, alleging that parents of the girl had tried to kill them and police had refused to take their complaint seriously.

 The couple — the boy a   and the girl a Tyagi — alleged that ever since they got married last month, the girl’s parents had tried to harm them on several occasions. The boy said he had had to skip his final-year law exam because of the constant threats.
 
 Following the appeal, the court directed the city police on May 16 to provide security to the couple. Citing a 2017 order, the court observed that police are required to give protection to such young couples and ensure no harm is caused to them just because they chose to marry against their parents’ wishes.
 
 Since the court’s order,   Vaibhav Krishna has directed the police in   to investigate the complaint and take appropriate action.
 
 The 26-year-old girl, a Morta resident who has a master’s degree in commerce, said her parents and brother had been constantly issuing death threats ever since she married her friend for ten years, also 26, in April this year. The couple alleged that the girl’s relatives had shot at them on May 3, but they eventually escaped. According to the girl, her parents had also threatened to lodge a kidnapping case against her husband and his parents in order to intimidate them. 
 
 The couple got married on April 27 and later registered their marriage in a Ghaziabad court. In their complaint to police, they have named the girl’s parents and a family friend, alleging that they had attacked them while they were on their way to Garhmukteshwar in  .
 
 The boy, who is pursing law, said: “My wife’s father, brother and a family friend are after our lives. Their constant threats have forced us to change our houses frequently. This year, I could not write my final-year exams. Her parents consider my family as below their status.”
 
 While the boy’s father owns a hardware store in Rajapur (Kavi Nagar), while the girl’s father is an affluent farmer. Following the SSP’s directive to probe the case, parents of the couple were called to Kavi Nagar police station on Tuesday to sort out the matter. A police officer said the girl’s father had told the cops he or his family would not interfere in their daughter’s life anymore. 
 
 Asked about the alleged threats to the couple, the girl’s father said he had already given “in writing” that the family had no objection to the marriage. “As a father, I am saddened by my daughter’s act, but I will not interfere with her decision. The allegation against us that we attacked them is wrong.”
 
 
