Shivaji Dasgupta

 Recently, the world of advertising was caught off guard when, in a significant departure from norm, JWT decided to abolish the position of global chief creative officer. While the jury is still out on this, I believe the move is a wise one. For, the concept of a single supremo dictating outcomes across every inhabited geography is illogical, as absurd as a global hotel chain with a chief executive chef operating across four continents.
 
 But, instead of troubling the agencies, this step should terrify the tier-A creative satrap, building fame and fortune on the legs of large networks while being unable to navigate them towards the digital future, or offer differentiated personal value. In any business dependent on self-driven imagination, a global role makes sense only from the perspective of managerial practices, be it business, finance or  . 
 
 In advertising, global or regional roles in strategy or creative are usually irrelevant from an operational standpoint because the competencies of local teams spell the difference between success and failure. 
 
 This explains the viability of the ‘holding company’ system, in which diverse establishments succeed in different geographies due to a combination of factors, including historical talent, power of insights and quality of output.
 
 Thus, a WPP or an   operates as an accumulator of successes, governed by an operating policy of P&L (profit and loss) sustainability as opposed to IP integrity. Unlike, say, the business or accounting ‘consulting models’, drawn from the fundamentals of the corporation (which has a global presence). The larger point to all of the above is that a global strategy, or a global creative chief, is redundant, unless for the purpose of audits, or for setting benchmarks.
 
 As a result, the role of the global creative   takes on non-executive hues. He’s a trophy or a stature symbol, as opposed to a hands-on engineer. He attends fora, officiates in juries and behaves like the  , seemingly formidable but really a mere emissary of those who are actually performing. For all the million-dollar remunerations they usually command, by design their contribution to real-time work is negligible. Even their finest intentions, counterproductively, are rendered superfluous by regional cultural and business mores.
 
 So, what is required is a structure in which every sociocultural unit (normally a country, sometimes a city or region) must have a customised creative leadership able to influence outcomes and, most importantly, guide clients and employees towards the self-evident digital future, while taking into account local realities and sensibilities. The evangelism of corporate superheroes is too impractical to work.
 
 The other attractive flipside of JWT’s decision will be the restoration of line leadership, at least in a global context – unlike the debilitating ‘faux partnership’ model that is breaking the back of agency networks. Like every other organisation, the agency too deserves a single leader in the largest sense, someone who is a visionary in business and relationships, and who can, thus, provide a stable and inspiring base of ownership.
 
 Strong creative and strategic leadership in segmented geographies will bring a corporate vision to life, generating outcomes that can pave the way to successes that are tangible, not superficial and award-led. 
 
 In my experience, allowing a single global leader (who can also be from the creative cadre) is a vital step towards restoring profitability and meaning, instead of having multiple characters chipping in with ill-advised suggestions.
 
 So, what will happen to the chief creative officer currently in the market for a job? Because, historically, this role has been of an opinionated observer, and not a dynamic actor, and the candidate will likely struggle to re-craft that role in this or any other industry. 
 
 Which leads me to the premise that the chief creative officer needs the agency brand a lot more than the agency brand needs the chief creative officer. Because it’s the chief creative officer’s survival, not the agency’s, that is truly at stake.
 
 The author is founder, INEXGRO Brand Advisory
 
 
