NAGPUR: The Regional Transport Authority (RTA) has finally given a nod to alter vehicles to convert them into ‘mobile canteens’, or food trucks as they are more popularly known. The   permission will be on the condition that mobile canteens do not disrupt smooth flow of traffic.

 “The permission for alteration to any vehicle into a mobile canteen has been given under section 41 of Central Motor Vehicle Act 1988,” said Regional Transport Officer (RTO) Sharad Jichkar. On November 5, 2004, the central government had issued a notification making it mandatory for registration of mobile canteens under Motor Vehicles Act, said the RTO.
 
 Jichkar pointed out the permission to alter vehicles will be allowed subject to permission from Food Drugs and Administration ( ) department and   ( ).
 
 However, additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare said NMC has not received any communication either from the RTA or RTO. “If RTA had given nod to mobile canteens, it would be a policy decision for NMC to allow them.”
 
 According to Kumbhare, NMC would have to frame terms and conditions for mobile canteens, including deciding charges, timings to operate and identification of roads where they could be allowed to do business. Another major point would be the space to be allotted to them should not clash with parking policy of the civic body.
 
 The traffic cops have pointed out that the decision would only help legalize the huge number of mobile canteens or food trucks, but it would affect traffic movement. They said many roads are already affected by the food trucks, including the busy patch between Liberty Cinema T-point and CK Nayudu Chowk, witnessed heavy traffic during evening hours due to mobile eateries. Another example is   road, where too mobile eating joints disrupt traffic.
 
 Sources said NMC has failed to implement the national hawkers’ policy even after finalizing 36 hawking zones in the city.
 
 In the first phase, NMC had planned to demarcate 51 stretches across the city to regulate hawking, and subsequently launch hawkers’ registration drive. However, the drive evoked a poor response with only 4,700 registrations. There are about 36,000 hawkers in the city as per a survey carried out by NMC’s market department.
 
 The traffic police too had objected to over 42 places proposed as hawking zones. According to them, most spots identified for hawking zones by NMC were not feasible since they are busy roads. Allowing vending on busy roads can affect traffic, the cops had said. Now, the move to legalize food trucks will add to the city traffic woes, cops said.
 
 
 
 
 Step 1: Applicant will have to submit ‘BT form’ along with all original documents, like registration certificates, insurance, fitness, tax documents to assistant RTO for seeking alteration of vehicles
 
 Step 2: ARTO will give order
 
 Step 3: Applicant will procure licence from NMC and FDA
 
 Step 4: Transport department will generate alteration disclaimer
 
 Step 5: Motor Vehicle Inspector will verify/inspect vehicles and give order for alteration
 
 Step 6: ARTO will verify process after alteration before issuing new Smart Card
 
 Alteration Fee: Rs500 for vehicles weighing up to 7,750kg, Rs750 for vehicles above this weight
 
 New Smart card fee: Rs200
 
 
