Ludhiana: A local court has sentenced three   to rigorous imprisonment of 10 years each, after it found them guilty of trafficking 140kg of poppy husk in a car. The Special Court judge, Balwinder Kumar, also imposed a fine of rupees one lakh each on the convicts, and in default of payment of fine to further undergo rigorous imprisonment for one year.

 On September 5, 2012, Jodhan police had booked Swaran Singh of Ferozepur Road, Ludhiana; Kalraj Singh of Dolewal Moga and Chhinderpal Singh of Dolewal in Moga after 140g of poppy husk was recovered from their possession.
 
 As per prosecution, on that day, Inspector Rashpal Singh — along with ASI Jaspal Singh and other police officials — were patrolling near village Jodhan, when at 12.15am, an Innova car came from Balowal village, which they signalled to stop. No number plate was fixed in front of the vehicle, but the rear side bore the number plate PB-10BV-745. The driver identified himself as Swaran Singh alias Sona, and the other person was Karaj Singh. Later, the vehicle was checked by police, after which four bags of poppy husk, each weighing 35kg were recovered from the vehicle. On searching the car, a registration certificate was recovered from the dashboard in the name of Kashmir Kaur (wife of Swaran Singh), and two number plates were also found, which were also taken into possession. Sona, on interrogation, further stated that Chhinder Pal Singh was his brother, who also deals in selling poppy husk. He was also arrested.
 
 During the trial, the accused denied allegations levelled against them and pleaded they were falsely implicated, claiming nothing was recovered from them. They also claimed to have no knowledge of any contraband article. The additional public prosecutor for the state in the case pleaded punishment for the accused on the basis of prosecution witnesses, including police officials, and sales manager of the vehicle company Manpreet Singh, who deposed about original temporary certificate of registration of vehicle and delivery note, along with the receipt.
 
 He also cited the chemical examination report of the recovered consignment. The court observed that the evidence by the prosecution proved beyond a shadow of reasonable doubt that Swaran Singh and Karaj Singh were found in possession of four bags of poppy husk having 35 kg in each bag and Chhinder Pal Singh had been involved in the crime with both his accomplice. The court observed that all the accused were guilty of having committed an offence punishable under Section 15 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.
 
 
