HYDERABAD: A district consumer forum here has directed Dadu's Mithai Vatika, Secunderabad, to pay 65,420 to a consumer for selling 'date expired' ' ', which was unsafe for human consumption. 

 Kamal Kishore, the complainant, said he came to Hyderabad from Adilabad and purchased sweet and khara (savouries) worth 5,860 from Dadu's on February 9, 2016, for his daughter's engagement. He alleged that after consuming the eats he and his family members suffered food poisoning and had to seek medical help by paying 15, 000. 
 
 He alleged that manufacturing and expiry date was tampered on 'Aloo Chudwa' and added that a new sticker with a fresh expiry date was pasted on the original one, which showed that products expired on January 27, 2016. Kishore further said the products couldn't be used for his daughter's engagement as they were emitting a foul smell and were unsafe for human consumption. He said he had to shell out 9,560 and buy sweets from a local shop at the last-minute to save his family from embarrassment at his daughter's engagement. 
 
 Apart from suffering food poisoning, he claimed that the family's reputation was put at stake. He filed a complaint alleging that Dadu's did not even bother to replace the eatables or least respond to complaints.
 
 The proprietor of Dadu's, in his written version, submitted that they check their products at three stages - procuring raw material, manufacturing, packing and labelling and only then they supply the products to outlets. They claimed that none of the other customers, who bought 'Aloo Chudwa' during the period complained about the quality and also denied tampering with the sticker. Claiming that Kishore filed a complaint to defame them, they requested the Forum to dismiss the complaint.
 
 During the trial, the bench noticed that the report of the   revealed that the analysis of the sample of 'Aloo Chudwa' referred to it by the Forum contains pathogen 'salmonella', which is injurious to health and unsafe and that the opposite party did not bother to file objections in writing disputing the correctness of the analysis report.
 
 "The opposite party sold 'Aloo Chudwa' and other sweet items to the complainant by representing to him that they are fresh and not hazardous to life. Thus, the opposite party practised unfair trade practice. Having sold stale eatable items emitting foul smell to the complainant, there is also a deficiency of service on the part of the opposite party," the bench said.
 
 
