BENGALURU: Even as the race for cabinet positions in the coalition government edged ever so slowly to the finish line, the three political parties on Wednesday were more keen on declaring their candidates for the legislative council.

 Polls to 11 council seats from the assembly will be held on June 11 with filing of nomination papers closing on Thursday (May 31). While the   has the numbers to elect five from their party, the   can elect four and the JD(S) two. The JD(S) will fall short of votes for the second seat and will have to depend on the second preference votes of the Congress.
 
 On Wednesday, the Congress was first off the block by declaring their candidates which included trusted lieutenants of their party leaders. C M Ibrahim and K Govindraj — both closely associated with former chief minister Siddaramaiah — were re-nominated. The other two are Arvind Kumar Arali from Bidar and K Harish Kumar from Dakshina Kannada. Both are functionaries in the KPCC. Arali, a Dalit, is a close associate of Mallikarjun M Kharge, while Kumar is Dakshina Kannada district president. 
 
 The BJP has decided to field S Rudre Gowda, Raghunath Rao Malkhapure, N Ravikumar, K P Nanjundi and Tejaswini Gowda. While Rudre Gowda, Nanjundi and Tejaswini are believed to be backed by party state president B S Yeddyurappa, Malkhapure has the support of Union minister H N Ananth Kumar. The only candidate who has made it on a party ticket — and perhaps because he has the support of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) — is Ravikumar, the BJP state general secretary (organisation). 
 
 The JD(S) is yet to announce names of their candidates, with the meeting at their national president H D Deve Gowda’s home continuing late into the night. It is speculated that the party will nominate the names of the Gowda family’s trusted men, B M Farook and YSV Datta. The JD(S) is also considering the name of retired IAS officer V Subramanya. While Farook is likely to make the JD(S) list of cabinet probables, Datta is a close confidante of Deve Gowda. Both Farook and Datta were defeated candidates at the Rajya Sabha and Assembly   respectively, held earlier this year.
 
 Waiting in the wings is Kona Reddy, who was actively involved with Kumaraswamy in the past five years but was defeated in the 2018 assembly polls from Naragund. However, there was no official confirmation from the JD(S). 
 
 
