PANAJI/SALIGAO: The state saw three peaceful protest rallies demanding justice for the eight-year-old child who was raped and killed in Kathua, Kashmir.

 The Miramar circle saw over 2,000 people gather to demand harsh punishment to the perpetrators of the crime. “This is a henious crime. I have come here for the little child and to protest against all the rapes by the men in power and with religious affiliations. It all boils down to greed for power and religious lines for them. They must be punished,” said Brenda Menezes, a physician from Dona Paula.
 
 “The act of rape alone is cruel worse still that it happened inside the temple. The men responsible for this should be brought forward and given harsh punishment,” said Swapnesh Kuncoliencar, a student of Dhempe college, Miramar. “The brutality in   and Kathua need to be spoken about so that people know the misery of the girls who had to suffer at the hands of those vile men. The state government should pressure the Centre to take action against them,” said another local, Altaf Jamadar. As part of this protest, a   commenced from the Miramar circle and culminated at   and drew massive participation from students, besides senior citizens and professionals who walked in solidarity.
 
 “Violence against women is rampant and the government is not ready to help us even after people have taken to streets to demand for justice,”  , a student of St Xavier’s College, Mapusa, said.
 
 “If the PM,  , can change the currency of our country overnight, he can amend the rape laws too. His silence and lack of initiative in this matter is making me question my vote choice,” Jones Gonsalves, a hospitality professional, said.
 
 Gretchen Barretto, who conceptualised and executed the peaceful rally, urged people to come forward and voice their opinions on crimes against women. They read the preamble of the Constitution and vowed to maintain secularism in Goa. 
 
 “The whole nation should demand for capital punishment for the ones involved in this crime. This incident is the most shocking and brutal in the nation’s history and they should not be spared,” said activist Prajal Sakardande. A large number of villagers from Calangute and   participated in a silent, candlelight march from Saligao panchayat to the   junction at Calangute. Holding placards, the villagers demanded stern action against the rapists including punishment in public in order to deter any such occurence in future. Fr Marcelino D’Souza of Calangute parish said, “We are undertaking this candlelight march to send a strong message that such things should not happen against women in future.”
 
 
