Pune: The state home department on Monday released the much-anticipated government resolution officially elaborating the finalised scheme for the setting up of an independent police commissioner’s office for the twin industrial township of Pimpri Chinchwad. 

 However, the GR, issued by deputy secretary (home) Kailas A Gaikwad, stated that a specific date for commencement of work by the new police commissioner’s office would be announced in due course. The state cabinet had cleared the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate proposal on April 10 paving the way for the GR.
 
 As is the case with the Pune police commissionerate, the office of the Pimpri Chinchwad police chief too will be headed by an officer of the rank of an additional director general of police with a total of 15 police stations under its jurisdiction. Five of these police stations are to be carved out from the Pune rural police set up. The remaining 10, including the Chikhali police station which is in a formation stage, are to be merged into the new police commissionerate from the Pune city police set up. 
 
 While the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation was established in 1982, the areas under its limits are covered by Zone III of the Pune city police. However, factors like rising population, urban development, establishment of industrial estates at Chakan and Talegaon, existence of pilgrim centres like Dehu and Alandi which are frequented by a large number of pilgrims every year, the rising crime graph and the need for effective maintenance of law and order had prompted the authorities to moot an independent police commissionerate for Pimpri Chinchwad. 
 
 The new police commissionerate will cover a population of 23 lakh, including those from the Pune rural police stations which are to be merged under its jurisdiction. Prominent destinations under the new setup will be the Hinjewadi IT Park, which is home to a large number of software companies besides a large number of academic and industrial establishments which have come up over the years on the outskirts of Pune city. 
 
 
