INDORE: Soaring number of   in Indore has sparked off a debate on solutions to safeguard people from their attacks and at the same time ensure that the   are safely dealt with.

 But city residents are in unison on the fact that Indore Municipal Corporation’s efforts to deal with stray dog menace seems to have fallen flat on its face. Despite claims of civic body of sterilizing over 25000 canines in past four years, the result is nowhere on grounds. 
 
 Blame it on their sterilization work or limited resources, the impact of their efforts on the menace of dog bites in the city has been little, residents feel. 
 
 The civic body officials seem to have been hiding behind the guidelines of government and Supreme Court over their failure to control the menace, they claimed. 
 
 Poorvi Singh, a resident of Mahalaxmi Nagar and owner of a pet dog, claimed that her 3-and-half year old son was attacked by a stray dog in the public garden. “The IMC does not act. Where should we go? We also love animals, but does that mean that we can ignore the stray dogs attacking our children,” she added.
 
 Civic body officials cited limited resources and funds as the reasons over failure in controlling the dog menace. “Every day we pick around 30 dogs from the city and sterilize them. We get a dozen complaints of dog bites from different parts of the city so we are unable to focus on one particular area,” said IMC’s health official Uttam Yadav. 
 
 “Due to government and Supreme Court guidelines we have no other option to control the menace”, he added. 
 
 But residents questioned this claim. “If 30 dogs are sterilized a day, IMC would have sterilized around 11000 dogs a year. The dog menace would have not emerged,” said Rajesh Lashkari, a resident of Vijay Nagar.
 
 Civic body pays Rs 890 to a private agency to sterilize a stray dog. A sum of around Rs1 crore is being spent by the civic body on sterilization of stray dogs in city. 
 
 Of late, the IMC defaulted in the payments, forcing the agency to stop the sterilization work. The drive resumed only after the pending dues were settled by the civic body.
 
 
