Nagpur: Farmers of the region have been battered by hailstorms once again. The last two days of rainfall and hailstorm in parts of Vidarbha is estimated to have hit crops on nearly one lakh hectares.  The affected crops include orange, mosambi (sweat lime), gram and wheat, which are due for harvest in March, apart from vegetables. This year, the hailstorm struck even as returns have come down from main crops like soyabean and cotton as well. Amravati division, which includes Yavatmal, Akola, Washim, Buldhana and Amravati districts, has seen the maximum losses. As much as 72,000 hectare farmland has been affected in the division as per reports received till Monday, said an official in the agriculture department. In Nagpur division, which covers eastern Vidarbha districts like Nagpur, Wardha, Chandrapur, Gondia and Gadchiroli, the affected area is reported to be 3,200 hectare. These are the figures till Monday, and the area could increase after subsequent reports are compiled, said an official here. A press note released by Nagpur’s guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, however, puts the affected areas in parts of the district alone at 10,000 hectare. Bawankule has issued directions to finish the preliminary assessments within 24 hours. Untimely hailstorms and rain are a regular affair in the region. If not each year, the phenomenon occurs every 2 to 4 years, during February or March, said sources. The state government has granted compensation from to time. A package was announced last year too, and also in 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015.  In areas where there have been rains, an immediate dry spell can salvage the crop, but the losses are near total where hailstorm strikes, said an agriculture department official. Advisories had been issued to farmers a week ago, to harvest the crop earlier. This would have been possible for kharif crops, but not for rabi, for which harvest is still some time away. Farmers say the loss ranges from 25% to 100%. The losses are very high in areas like Achalpur, Morshi, Chandur, Katol and Karanja. The hailstorm destroyed not just the future ambia bahar crop, which brings fruit to market from October onwards, but it has also brought down all fruits of the mrig bahar, which were to come to market in a few days. Amol Totey from Morshi in Amravati district said, “The loss has been compounded by the damage to orange trees. The wounds due to hail hit are too big, and can cause infections to the plant. Hence, we need to spray medicines immediately to prevent further loss. This has increased the inputs in the crop,” he said. Rushikesh Sontakke from village Takarkheda in Anjangaon Surji taluka of Amravati district said he suffered a loss of about Rs10-12 lakh with all fruits falling to the ground. “The flowering for the mrig bahar crop has also been destroyed completely. Hence, we have suffered double loss. We are completely ruined,” he said. Shridhar Thakare, director of Maha Orange, has demanded that the state government must raise special funds to compensate for such losses. “The farmers who have their crop insured also do not get insurance amount. Hence, government should ensure that there is 100% insurance and all farmers get the insurance money.”