RAIPUR: The culture and attitude has changed in Vidarbha.   and his boys understand they can’t sit on past laurels.

 While Vidarbha enjoyed their   success, the preparations for the Central Zone   Twenty20 Trophy started the day after Vidarbha landed in the city on Wednesday night after their historic victory. 
 
 Some of the boys played for their respective clubs in the   Twenty20 on Thursday morning, while others followed their routines. They even practiced on the day of their felicitation. The next target for Chandrakant Pandit’s boys is the shorter formats. 
 
 They would start their campaign in the Twenty20 tournament against Chhattisgarh at Shaheed Veer Narayan Stadium in Raipur on Monday. Chhattisgarh might be newest entrants in the domestic circuit but they are no pushovers. Vidarbha must have experienced their fighting spirit in the last two meetings. Incidentally, Sumit Ruikar, ex-Vidarbha spinner had plotted the Vidarbha downfall on both occasions. 
 
 Chhattisgarh had shot Vidarbha out for 94 in the last edition and then went on to beat them convincingly by nine wickets. They carried that confidence when they meet Vidarbha in the Ranji Trophy this season. Vidarbha lost only match this season, although by innings lead and that was against Chhattisgarh. Ruikar had picked four wickets to give his side a crucial innings lead. 
 
 Former India Under-19 batsman   was the star with the bat as he scored a magnificent double hundred against Umesh Yadav & Co. The 20-year-old is now the new leader of the team as Chhattisgarh is looking at the future. They have not included former India batsman Mohd Kaif, who was leading in Ranji Trophy, in their squad. They have a well-balanced squad. 
 
 Vidarbha’s confidence is on sky high after what they achieved last week. Apart from consistent performance in Ranji Trophy for the last few years, Vidarbha have done pretty well in the Twenty20 too. They had entered the Super League phase in 2013-14 after doing well. They topped the pool in 2015-16 and were on the second spot in the last edition. 
 
 Vidarbha have some exciting Twenty20 players. Wicketkeeper Jitesh Sharma, only Vidarbha cricketer to score hundred in Twenty20, is in great form. He might have missed out in Ranji Trophy this year and would like to make amends here. No Vidarbha batsman has finished more matches than Apoorv Wankhade in the last two years. Last year, his strike rate was even better. 
 
 Allrounder Karn Sharma would be eager to take the field. With Akshay Wakhare-Aditya Sarvate combination doing well, he had to warm the benches. However, he is a proven player in Twenty20 and played an important role in Mumbai Indians victory in the last IPL. The likes of Akshay Karnewar and Ravi Jangid would provide more options for skipper Faiz. If Vidarbha play to their potential, they are a tough side to beat. 
 
 With talent scouts of various franchise set to watch the games, Vidarbha players would be eager to show their mettle. 
 
 THE SQUADS
 
 VIDARBHA: Faiz Fazal, Ganesh Satish, Karn Sharma, Ravi Jangid, Apoorv Wankhade, Jitesh Sharma, Aditya Sarvate, Akshay Karnewar, Rishabh Rathod, Akshay Wadkar, Akshay Wakhare, Rajneesh Gurbani, Ravi Thakur, Shrikant Wagh, Siddhesh Neral.
 
 CHHATTISGARH: Amandeep Khare (captain), Rishabh Tiwari, Sahil Gupta, Abhimanyu Chauhan, Ashutosh Singh, Manoj Singh, Shashank Chandrakar, Ajay Mandal, Sumit Ruikar, Shivendra Singh, Vishal Singh Kushwaha, Pankaj Rao, Shanawaz Hussain, Nitish Rao, Shakib Ahmed, Jatin Saxena.
 
 
