NEW DELHI:   chief   has welcomed the prospect of a “Modi vs the Rest” battle in 2019 while daring the opposition to put its 
  , asserting that it will be easily defeated by a 300-plus majority commanded by the   in the Lok Sabha.

 
 “Why is the no-confidence being moved so late...We are ready to face the motion. There should be a debate as per norms in the House.   and other parties know of their imminent defeat and that is why they are not allowing the House to function,” he said.
 
 About the opposition’s bid to forge a non-BJP alliance in the aftermath of its 
  , the BJP chief said, “There was a time when it used to be Indira Gandhi vs the Rest and now the scenario has changed as its Modi vs the Rest.”
 
 He said BJP is in office in 67% of India’s geographical area.
 
 Referring to notices for no-confidence motions submitted by YSR Congress and   (TDP) over their unmet demand for 
  , which the Centre has said is constitutionally impermissible, the BJP president said it is ironic that while the House is not allowed to function, a no-trust motion is being moved.
 
 He said the alliance talk among the opposition parties shows BJP’s influence under Prime Minister  . “They (Congress) talk over dinner but we believe in direct interaction with people,” he said.
 
 “It is for people to decide whether they reiterate confidence in the most successful PM of the country or vote for an orange-like alliance,” Shah said, arguing that NDA has grown exponentially under Modi and the best example is BJP’s success in the north-eastern states.
 
 Shah said even Congress leader   acknowledged the strength of BJP as he cited the party’s booth management at the AICC plenary on Saturday. “But Congress is dreaming and we want them to continue to do so. Let the polls come, BJP will win with more seats than 2014,” he said.
 
 Shah said the opposition allegations of arrogance are unfounded as the party believes in hard work and grows brick by brick. “BJP has never split but there are Congress parties from A to Z as its leaders float a new party after a defeat,” he added.
 
