BENGALURU: Jostling for votes in next month’s high-stakes election is a motley crew of fringe political parties and independents. While they add colour and noise to the election process, parties, especially the  , worry that they may play spoilers in the poll battle.

 
 In the 2013 elections, these parties had hurt the prospects of BJP. Karnataka Janata Paksha, led by B S Yeddyurappa, and BSR Congress, led by B Sriramulu, along with smaller parties had collectively garnered about 15% of the vote share, to Congress’ advantage. Apart from KJP and BSR (both off-shoots of BJP),   got one seat (won by former minister and actor C P Yogeshwar), while Bahujan Samaj Party ran the Congress candidate close in another. Ashok Kheny, promoter of Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprise, got elected from the Karnataka Makkala Paksha, while farmers’ leader late K S Puttannaiah was elected from the Sarvodaya Karnataka Paksha. Apart from this, nine independents have made it to the House.
 
  
  
 
 A senior BJP leader claims that if all these parties and independents had collectively fought the polls as one with BJP in 2013, the combine would have secured 87 seats while Congress would have got only 91 seats—leading to a hung assembly. “The threeway split of BJP helped secure for the Congress nearly 30 additional seats,’’ he said.
 
 In 2008, on the contrary, smaller parties had been completely wiped out while only six seats had gone to independents.
 
 This time, however, many believe smaller parties are more ikely to harm the prospects of Congress than BJP. The entry of Dalit and Muslim-centric parties, mainly Mayawati’s BSP, Sharad Pawar’s NCP, Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) and the  , besides the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) and All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) headed by Asaduddin Owaisi are likely to eat into the Congress vote. While BSP, NCP and JD(U) have announced that they will contest 20-30 seats, MEP, headed by Nowhera Shaik, has announced it will contest all 224 constituencies. AIMIM is expected to field candidates in key constituencies.
 
 Then there are signboard parties like Karnataka Pragnyavantha Janata Party of actor Upendra, Anupama Shenoy’s Bharatiya Janashakthi Congress and Kolar MLA Varthur Prakash’s Namma Congress – besides regional players like Maharashtra Ekikarna Samithi (MES).
 
 “Assembly polls are often decided by small margins. Even a difference of 1,000-1,500 votes changes the fate of candidates. So even if they manage a minuscule number of votes it will impact the results,’’ said JD(S) leader NH Konareddy.
 
 
