AHMEDABAD: As the smell of   used in the manufacture of country   wafts through the  , two-year-old Nirav wakes up in the dead of the night and tell his father, “Papa raid aayee hai (Papa the cops are here)”.

 Fifty metres away, 15-year-old Amikant is awake, studying for his class X board exams. He too is afraid. He worries that the cops will take his scooter away and he won’t be able to get to the exam centre.
 
 This is the tale of every second house in Chharanagar, the 66-year-old housing settlement, which police have been directed to raid twice every 24 hours to stop the flow of country liquor. These raids were ordered by the DGP, after one woman openly said that they would continue their illegal   of liquor, at a Woman’s Day programme organized by the cops.
 
 Fifty-year-old Kalpana, a widow, is undeterred by the sound of police boots in the locality. Kalpana, who has three sons, with help from her brother-in-law nonchalantly hide carboys of booze and pretend as if nothing has happened.
 
 When the cops walk past the garbage dump at the end of each bylane — which houses about 1,500 people — and leave, Kalpana gets back to filling carboys, with about seven litres in each. She sells one for Rs 1,300 to a bootlegger.
 
 “This will continue till I die but will not put my children into this work. My three sons are studying. It is because of this liquor that I have this two-room house and can afford an education of my sons,” says Kalpana, sitting on a plastic chair in a 12x12 room. A small celling fan hangs overhead and old model TV set sits on a wooden stool in a corner.
 
 Kalpana says police raids only add to her sales. “Every time there is police raid, we need to brew more liquor as demand spikes. The same thing happened after the 2009   tragedy. We sold a lot of liquor in those days, even when the cops were strict,” she adds.
 
 Kalpana’s oldest son Amarkant, who lost his father to a hooch tragedy in 1993, echoes her mother’s sentiments. “I am educated but am jobless. I left my first job due to the low salary and went to an interview for another. They asked me my address — “Chharanagar” — which was already on my resume, was encircled with a red pen. I haven’t got a call yet. The stigma of being a Chhara is still there,” he says dejectedly.
 
 The Chharas are a de-notified tribe. Under British rule, they were termed ‘criminal tribes’ under the Criminal Tribes Act 1871. The act forced members of such tribes to stay in ghettoes and they were subject to arrest if caught outside. They would require permits to leave the ghettoes. The stigma of being dubbed ‘born criminals’ has still not been erased for Chharas.
 
 Jayendra Rathod, who runs a library and work with the community, said around 40% of community members still brew liquor but the community also has more than 250 lawyers, 10 or 12 policemen, journalists, government pleaders, a judge and very talented theatre artists.
 
 “The community has been brewing liquor for 66 years and they need alternative work to make a living and leave this traditional business. It is not like these brewers earn in lakhs. They barely make Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 a day” adds Rathod.
 
 Resting against the wall of a small library, filled with books about oppression and struggle and posters of Safdar Hashmi and Mahashweta Devi, Rathod said he too helped his parents in the liquor business as a young boy.
 
 “I grew up and finished my BA in Psychology I understood what is bad and good for me. I took to theatre and graphic design. My wife is a teacher and that is enough for us to make a living,” Rathod says.
 
 Kushal Batunge, an associate director for a coming film, who made the five-minute film “Widow’s Home”, said the administration must float a reform scheme, to keep people from brewing liquor. Demand has to be stopped first or the people here are left with no option but to brew liquor.
 
 
 
