AGRA: Exactly a year ago, TOI had reported rampant cheating in the Uttar Pradesh state  , with teachers and invigilators not only turning a blind eye to what examinees were doing in classrooms, but also giving a free run to touts, many of whom dictated answers to students through loudspeakers. 

 Sources in the “cheating mafia” had then said each student seeking “help”, offered via different “packages”, paid anything from Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000. While Rs 5,000 was the “fees” for students who wrote their papers with the help of their own cheating material, Rs 10,000 got one a dictation of the correct answers. 
 
 The most expensive package, for Rs 15,000, allowed students to mark their attendance and leave while the touts and their agents wrote their papers. A year on, things have changed. Exam centres across districts have been “sanitized”. 
 
 Touts are nowhere to be seen and there are CCTVs everywhere, their feeds constantly monitored. The exams are held in silence. It’s not a surprise that 10 lakh students dropped out of this year’s state board examination — the world’s largest in terms of the number of examinees, with over 66 lakh appearing for it across some 8,500 centres.
 
 
 
 The road to   at  , near Agra, was almost deserted on Tuesday. Unlike last year, when “spotters” hired by touts strolled around to look out for “danger” (surprise inspections), the only people seen this time were farmers heading to their fields on tractors. On the school premises, police personnel kept watch with a “static magistrate” on alert. Though they did not stop this correspondent from entering the premises, personnel from the institute were busy checking students’ entry cards and the nervousness was palpable. A quick check by a TOI team revealed that all the CCTV cameras installed on the campus were working, with officials periodically scanning the feeds. No loudspeakers announced the answers as students attempted their maths papers. 
 
 
 The strictness, however, has not gone down well with the owners of some of the private institutes who used to make a fair amount of money facilitating cheating. They kept cursing the press and the administration for “blowing the issue of cheating out of proportion”. At two private colleges, the principals got into a heated argument with this correspondent. They accused the media of being “biased”. 
 
 “The owners of these exam centres, in connivance with the cheating mafia, used to make lakhs during the examination season. They have lost students who were promised pass percentages and been forced to pay back the money they had collected,” said a local education official. A man monitoring one of the CCTV cameras at an exam centre in Farah said it was easy to catch anyone who attempted to cheat. He showed a recording from February 6 and pointed to a girl shifting “suspiciously” in her seat. “When we checked her, she was found copying from another student’s paper,” he added. 
 
 
  
 
 At Shri Kaptan Singh Inter College, Meghpur, students were made to take off their shoes and socks and keep them in racks outside the classrooms. Next door, at Shri Ganpati Singh Sikarvar Inter College, Luhara (Mathura), static magistrate Deepak Kumar stopped this correspondent and checked her ID as police personnel maintained vigil. At one of the centres, a teacher admitted that though mass cheating had ended, some teachers still helped students by telling them an answer or two. She said students would now have to “really put in a lot of hard work to succeed in case.
