MUMBAI: A day after TOI reported that the BMC’s internal probe committee had found 40% (16,000 sq m) of built-up area on the premises of Worli’s   to be illegal, civic officials said that they have decided to propose penalty on property tax being paid by those using unauthorized space.

 
  
  
 
 At present, the   receives nearly Rs 4.5 crore in property tax from structures located at Raghuvanshi Mills. Now, the civic body plans to levy property tax on the illegal space as well and in addition to that, owners will have to pay a penalty of twice this tax.
 
 An official explained, “Consider a case, wherein a person owns 1,000 sq ft for which he is paying property tax and has added 200 sq ft of construction illegally. Now, s/he will have to pay property tax for the 200 sq ft, and as penalty, twice the property tax on the illegal area. Thus, though the owner is occupying 1,200 sq ft, s/he will be asked to pay property tax for 1,600 sq ft.
 
 The provision to levy penalty was made under Section 152(a) which was added to the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, in April 2010. “The assistant as sessor and collector in the ward have already been directed to start working on calculating penalties for unauthorized structures as we have all records with us. In most cases, the penalty would be collected from 2010, when the provision was made", said an official.
 
 The probe into illegalities at Raghuvanshi Mills began following the   fire tragedy in December last year, in which 14 people died. During an inspection of civic records, which was done over the past five months, officials found that while the original mill area was 24,357 sq m and permitted built-up area 26,486 sq m, records showed there existed 40,337 sq m built-up area on the premises. This, officials said, was almost 16,000 sq m in excess of the permitted built-up area.
 
 In a report, which will be submitted to the civic chief soon, the   has proposed that penalty be levied on the owners of unauthorized spaces immediately. “While we are demolishing whatever illegal constructions we can, but, then in a lot of cases, such structures have been built between two floors and razing them may affect the stability of the entire structure,” said an official.
 
