JALANDHAR: Soon after registration of case against Shahkot   candidate Hardev Singh Ladi in the wee hours on Friday, a drama unfolding in Jalandhar (Rural) police. Mehatpur SHO Parminder Singh Bajwa, who had filed the FIR, first sent his “resignation” to SSP, then withdrew it, and then proceeded on leave citing high BP as the reason.

 Even as the news of case being filed against Laddi was spreading fast causing much embarrassment to the incumbent Congress, leader of opposition   held a press conference in Jalandhar to release a copy of the SHO ‘s “resignation” to the media, which he purportedly wrote to Jalandhar (Rural) SSP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar. Khaira claimed that the “resignation” was handed over to him by Bajwa’s parents, who told him that the SHO was “under immense pressure”.
 
 When contacted in the early afternoon, Bajwa confirmed to TOI that he had written the letter to SSP. However, after sometime another handwritten statement by him was flashed on social media mentioning that he would continue with his job and he wrote the earlier “message” due to “family stress”. Sources said that the latter message was brought in the public domain by police officials while Bajwa went incommunicado.
 
 Sources revealed that Bajwa wrote the resignation-cum-leave letter after he was pulled up by the senior police officers after he registered the case in the wee hours on Friday.
 
 In the “resignation” address to SSP, Bajwa had written “I know you are under very pressure (sic) of sitting (sic) government, Please accept my resignation or put me on absence from today 4-5-2018 at 9.45 AM”.
 
 In the second message titled “to whom it may concern” he wrote, “I had put a message on the social media in the morning that I would be resigning. That is not true. I want to continue with my job. Earlier message was written due to family stress”. While the earlier was full of grammatical and other errors, the second note did not have any such problems.
 
 Sources said that he withdrew the resignation after being cajoled by the senior police officers to withdraw his letter and join the duty as situation was turning embarrassing for police brass.
 
 When contacted in the evening Jalandhar (Rural) SSP Gurpreet Singh Bhullar claimed that he did not receive any of the two – the resignation or the later note about its withdrawal - and got to know only through news and social media about these.
 
 “He did apply for leave for three days citing hypertension after which he was granted leave for two days,” SSP said.
 
 Took charge 2 days back
 
 Inspector Parminder Singh Bajwa was posted as Mehatpur police station SHO on Wednesday two days back on the instructions of the chief electoral officer (CEO). He was earlier SHO Shahkot from where he was shifted around a month-and-a-half back. Leader of Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira on Friday revealed that he was shifted out from the post of Shahkot SHO after he registered case against supporters of Kapurthala Congress MLA Rana Gurjit Singh. Interestingly, Bajwa’s name was sent in a panel of six police officials to the CEO for posting of a SHO at Mehatpur. It was from the panel sent by Jalandhar (rural) police that CEO appointed Bajwa as SHO Mehatpur. SSP Bhullar said that his name was included in the panel as they required to send those names who did not belong to Jalandhar as residents.
 
 ‘Withdraw nomination’
 
 After registration of the case against Hardev Singh Ladi, Khaira appealed to Congress president Rahul Gandhi to withdraw Hardev Singh Laaddi’s candidature and held that he should be arrested and thoroughly investigated to the roots of the illegal mining in the area.
 
 
