PUNE: The revised tender for the 24X7 water supply project was approved on Monday.

 The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation ( ) gave its go-ahead to it in a meeting. The tender worth around Rs 2,325 crore was re-issued following a controversy.
 
 
  
  
 
 Murlidhar Mohol, the chairman of the standing committee, told reporters, “There were six different works. Five of them have been given to a firm, while the sixth one has been given to another.”
 
 The first tenders were opened in the first week of July. The bidders had quoted a high project cost, almost 26% above PMC estimate.
 
 Opposition leaders and even a faction of the ruling   had alleged that top civic officers had “fixed” the terms and conditions to favour select bidders. The tenders were cancelled in August and re-estimation was ordered.
 
 The revised estimate of the 24x7 supply project, including laying optical fibre cable duct, brought its cost down by about Rs290 crore — from the earlier projection of Rs 2,615 core to Rs 2,325 crore.
 
 The estimate committee of PMC had given its green signal to the new estimate for floating tenders for the second time in November. Poor response to the tenders had led to repeat of the tendering process. The tenders were issued in six categories for different works.
 
 PMC has plans to roll out a metered water supply system. As many as 103 water tanks will be built across the city under the scheme. Other key components of the project include laying 1,600km pipelines and installation of meters. The deadline to finish project is 2020-21.
 
 “The 24X7 water supply project is important for the city. It will help in manging water in a better manner. It will also reduce the water losses,” said  , the commissioner of PMC.
 
 Activists demanded details on how the project cost would impact citizens’ pockets. “Household metering is the key aspect of this project. The citizens will face direct financial burden of meter installation. The civic body should explain on how it will charge the money for these meters,” said Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch.
 
 Velankar said clarification was also needed on the water charges the citizens would have to pay. 
 
 
