CHENNAI: One of the highlights of a trip to Ramanathapuram is the Pamban railway bridge connecting the mainland to Rameswaram island. And part of the structure ‘opening up’ to allow ships to pass through the   is a sight worth witnessing from the adjacent road bridge. But in a year from now, this spectacle at the 104-year-old sea bridge will not be the same.

 At present, the two arms of the bridge is raised manually by 16 workers opening one of the spans on the bridge. But Southern Railway has decided to mechanise the process by installing a single truss span accompanied by electrical motors that will vertically lift the span of the bridge to allow movement of ships. “After this modification, it will be operated by a remote control,” said a top railway official.
 
 The new system will also allow for bigger ships to take the route as the vertical-lift span will have an increased width of around 80m from the present maximum navigational clearance of 60m now, the official said. But the maximum height to which the bridge will be allowed to be lifted will be limited by the height of the adjacent road bridge, say railway engineers.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 On January 11, railway officials accompanied by Spanish and Indian companies appointed as   (PMC) visited the only cantilever bridge of Indian Railways. The PMC will submit a report within a month after which   (RVNL), engineering arm of the railways, will start work. The official said a new bridge would be in place within a year.
 
 The Pamban Bridge which covers the 2km distance over Palk Strait has 145 spans one of which the   span, named after the American engineer  . The 88m long Scherzer span makes up two arms of the cantilever, each 44m in length. It is designed to open at a maximum angle of 80°, but at present opens only to 70°. Now, the arms of the Scherzer span open once a week to allow ships to pass through. “With the new design, it may be opened twice or thrice a week,” the official said. The speed of trains on the bridge now restricted to 15kmph are also likely to travel faster as the single truss is a stronger structure, the official added.
 
 Constructed between 1911-1913, the Pamban Bridge was the first sea bridge in the country which gave a rail link between the mainland and the w island. Railway records show the bridge built at a cost of ₹20 lakh was opened for traffic in February 1914. Constructed in one of the most corrosive environments of the world, the bridge needs continuous maintenance of its metallic parts.
 
