NEW DELHI: There seems to be no relief in sight from rampant encroachments in the national capital despite the three municipal corporations claiming that they have seized over 900 vehicles and removed over 1,500 permanent and temporary structures till date. Moreover, major encroachments, like illegal surface parking, unauthorised construction and squatters in parks and on public land are not being removed. 

 For the first time,   on Wednesday sealed 11 shops, including eight eateries, for being repeat offenders. In the anti-encroachment drive carried out in the civic body's six zones, 65 vehicles and 105 items were seized. In City zone, an area of around 2.5km was cleared of encroachments on Hamilton Road, Mori Gate and SP Mukherjee Marg," said a senior official.
 
 South Delhi Municipal Corporation carried out the drive in four of its zones. "A 7-km road was cleared of encroachers and several vehicles seized. In the drive near the CNG pump at Vasant Kunj, Malviya Nagar main market and Khirki Sansthan Bhavan, three vehicles, five rehris, three tandoors and 150 articles were seized. Also, 20 temporary structures and five tin sheds were demolished and a 2-km road cleared," a senior official said.
 
 In west zone of SDMC, the anti-encroachment drive was undertaken from District Centre to Dwarka Mor and Club Road wherein 29 vehicles and seven rehris were seized. "Extensions of 25 shops and 18 semi-permanent structures were demolished. We revisited Uttam Nagar and Dwarka to remove those vendors who had returned," added the senior official. 
 
 "In central zone, a 5-km road was cleared for pedestrians at Baba Fateh Singh Marg, Govindpuri Metro station and Majidia Hospital and three vehicles, nine rehris and 26 articles were seized," said a senior SDMC official.
 
 East Delhi Municipal Corporation seized six trucks and 31 cars from Vikas Marg along with 14 items. A 1.5-km area was cleared of encroachments.
 
 Experts said that merely carrying out the drive is not going to help and there is a need to enforce the law along with streamlining the policies for parking and vendors. Former municipal commissioner Rakesh Mehta pointed out that there is laxity in enforcing the law.
 
 "Multiplicity of authorities is a major problem as it creates more chaos. The town vending committee can help regulate vendors. Encroachments on major roads often cause traffic jams. Harsh steps need to be taken to put an end to the problem," Mehta said.
 
 
