NEW DELHI: Delhi Police managed to invoke the IPC section related to abetment in the Sunanda Pushkar case without a suicide note but has failed to make any headway in the case of suicide of bureaucrat   and his family members. They had killed themselves in a space of two months in 2016 allegedly due to torture inflicted by   officials during a probe in a corruption case.

 Bansal had named four CBI officials in a suicide note, levelling   of torture. He had named a DIG, an SP, a deputy SP, an IO and a “fat, balding hawaldar”. He had said in a note found in the house along with four photocopies: “I am committing suicide due to torture by CBI. After two years, no FIR has been registered.
 
 Sources say National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) — which has taken suo motu cognizance of the matter — has asked Delhi Police to submit reports on the case but the police have looked the other way. NHRC sources said they have sought the reports by next week failing which it was likely to initiate action. 
 
 The police probe went dormant as CBI said it would conduct an internal inquiry in the matter. The police said they were still awaiting the report and that the case is "pending inquest". Inquest proceedings are carried out to probe cases of unnatural deaths. A magisterial inquiry is also conducted to finish an inquest.
 
 On July 18, Bansal’s wife and daughter had committed suicide two days after the CBI arrested Bansal, director general of corporate affairs, at their home in east Delhi's Madhu Vihar. Satyabala (58) and her daughter, Neha (28), killed themselves by hanging in separate rooms at their flat in Neelkanth Apartments.
 
 Bansal had been arrested for allegedly receiving Rs 9 lakh as bribe for extending favours to a company. The money had changed hands outside a Delhi hotel, CBI claimed. Subsequent searches at six places, including at Bansal’s home, led to seizure of Rs. 54 lakh, CBI had said at the time. 
 
 When his wife and daughter died, Bansal was in jail. On September 19, Bansal, out on bail, and his 28-year-old son hung themselves in a similar manner after conducting a puja at home. Bansal had sent the suicide note to nine places, mostly news channels and the CBI.
 
 The police started to probe the deaths on the basis of the note but had to slow down as CBI said it was probing the matter internally. As CBI began an inquiry, the police probe went cold. 
 
 The police had claimed citing medical reports that Bansal and his son, Yogesh, were depressed since the death of Bansal’s wife and daughter and that Yogesh had been showing suicidal tendencies and “lack of interest” in work. Yogesh, police had told the court, was prescribed diazepam and alprax. The father-son duo allegedly showed signs of anxiety and Bansal was referred to the Psychiatry OPD of Safdarjung Hospital for treatment of depression, cops had said.
 
 
