NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Tuesday   its   where it   on record a   by the   saying   is not a  .

 By its earlier order HC had struck off from record the earlier affidavit filed by the UPA government supporting Jamia’s minority status. The court recalled its March 13 order saying it had “erroneously” not noted that there were other parties in the matter who could have been affected by the proceedings.
 
 It allowed the plea of the university vice chancellor, its registrar and the teachers’ association that the present government has not established any ground for replacement of the existing affidavit of August 29, 2011.
 
 In their plea the university officials pointed out that they were neither served a copy of the Centre’s recent application to take on record the fresh affidavit, nor were they heard before the disposal of the plea.
 
 A bench of Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar said there was merit in the submission and added “we have erroneously not noted that there were other respondents, who could have been affected by the outcome of the proceedings”.
 
 The court said it was trite that all the affected parties were required to be heard before passing an order and recalled its March 13 order.
 
 On March 13, the court had accepted the prayer made by the Centre’s counsel and permitted them to file a fresh counter affidavit which was submitted on March 5. It had also said that the 2011 affidavit supporting the minority status, shall stand struck off from the record.
 
 Reversing the previous government’s stand, the Centre had filed the revised affidavit in the high court opposing the order of the National Commission for Minority Educational Institutions (NCMEI) declaring Jamia Millia Islamia a religious minority institution.
 
 It cited the Supreme Court’s decision in the Azeez Basha Vs Union of India case of 1968 to justify the change in stand. The Centre claimed that the first affidavit did not take note of the Azeez Basha case, in which the apex court had said that a university incorporated under an Act of Parliament cannot claim the status of a minority institution. The latest affidavit had concluded that JMI “is not a minority institution having been set up by an Act of Parliament and funded by the central government and also that it was not set up by a minority sect”.
 
 
