NEW DELHI: Will India look to their star-studded badminton and wrestling teams to spearhead the medal hunt or hope for young guns such as Manu Bhaker and Neeraj Chopra to steal the thunder? Either way, medals will augur well for India. For some   will be a podium of possibility, for others a stepping stone.

 
 
 
 
 
  have never been the pinnacle of sport, they have only served to throw up pointers to the talent the country has. So it is just as well that an avalanche of medals stokes the country’s ego as its athletes gear up for bigger hurdles this year and beyond.
 
 India heady moment came in the 2010 edition in New Delhi when they bagged 101 medals (38 gold) to take the second position in the medals’ table behind Australia. They slipped to fifth four years later in Glasgow with 64 medals, 15 of them gold. This time, they would be aiming for a better haul with top athletes, past winners and promising juniors studding the line-up.
 
 
 
 
 
 While it is a given that superstars such as PV Sindhu, Saina Nehwal, Kidambi Srikanth, Vikas Krishan, Vinesh Phogat and Sushil Kumar will be among medals, India’s assessment of their sporting base and the jottings in the future notebook will be a lot more realistic if their youngsters contribute to the bullion file.
 
 
 
 
 
 Only 16, pistol shooter Bhaker must continue from where she left off at the Guadalajara World Cup to fire the imagination of the country’s GenX. There are others ready to wing ahead if Bhaker provides the momentum. Chopra in javelin, Aruna Budda Reddy in gymnastics, badminton doubles pair of Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and Chirag Shetty, boxer Manish Kaushik (60kg) and the young players in the hockey teams waiting for their opportunity on the big stage.
 
 This could well be the enduring mantra for many countries at the Gold Coast  . With the Games unable to reinvent themselves, remaining faithful to core sports which are anachronisms elsewhere on the planet, it isn’t hard to detect a laidback atmosphere in every edition despite the mild tremors that the heavyweights manage to generate now and then.
 
 As such, it wouldn’t be a surprise if badminton players are actually looking for inspiring wins to sharpen their talons for the Thomas and Uber Cups, Asian Games and World Championships. Similarly, the hockey players would be testing themselves against the likes of Australia, England, New Zealand, Malaysia and Pakistan with an eye on the Asian Games, where a gold will fetch them a berth at the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. And for the shooters, it is the World Championships at the end of the year.
 
 Do these Games hold any other significance to the country’s athletes then? Yes, to all those die-hard optimists who feel they ought to test themselves against the best. Blessed are those taking part in swimming, cycling, athletics, gymnastics and to an extent table tennis.
 
 A medal here will be coveted. Swimmer Virdhawal Khade, gymnast Aruna and cyclist Deborah Herold are a few of them. Will they even manage to get a foothold in Gold Coast or will they be content measuring themselves against the cream? Let’s wait and watch.
 
 
