PANAJI: The state   department has launched surprise checks on centres that test vehicle emissions and issue pollution under control ( ) certificate without actually inspecting the vehicle.

 Recently the department received a tip-off that such centres, generally called PUC centres, are operating without adhering to the norms, like issuing a certificate without physically inspecting the vehicle.
 
 “It has become a big business for certain PUC centres to overcharge people for issuing a PUC certificate without putting the vehicle through the due checks. Some vehicle owners were merely producing the rear vehicle registration plate or a photograph of the vehicle to qualify for the certificate. Such malpractices are rampant in the state,” a transport official told TOI.
 
 This is particularly common among two-wheelers, he said. The government has got fixed fees of Rs 65 for two-wheelers, of which Rs 45 is the PUC’s earning and Rs 20 goes to the department. 
 
 To avoid getting their entire fleet of two-wheelers to a PUC centre and have each of them checked, rent-a-bike operators are willing to pay up to Rs 100 per certificate to ensure that it is generated, sources said.
 
 “There are about 64 PUC centres in the state, four to five of which are inoperational. We have information that some of them are flouting these norms. We are going to propose that all PUC centres should be equipped with   cameras and there should be central connectivity to monitor the operations of each and every centre,” the official said.
 
 The penalty for flouting this norm is cancellation of the PUC centre’s letter of authority that serves as its licence. The testing centre will also have to forfeit its security deposit of Rs 1 lakh. There is no minimum penalty for this violation.
 
 The   had recently issued directions stating that there will be non-renewal of insurance policy of vehicles unless the vehicle owner provides a PUC certificate to the insurance firms. Thus making it mandatory for vehicle owners to produce the PUC certificate.
 
 
