When   lieutenant governor   Bedi declared that the administration will not implement free   scheme in   that are not open defecation free, she did not expect a public outcry and condemnation from different quarters. The ruling   and its allies, including the DMK, besides the opposition AIADMK had immediately launched plans for a series of agitations from Sunday until the order was cancelled.   did withdraw the order but only after clarifying that her intentions were misread. 

 In an interview to Bosco Dominique, she said outburst or appreciation was based on people’s belief and perception. Every coin has two sides, she said, adding that   team needed to do more homework and perhaps be “more patient” with poor sanitary conditions.
 
 What’s the rationale behind the order linking hygiene with welfare measures?
 
  To enable fast forward improvement in   health of the poor, heavily dependent on scarce rural medical resources. There is water pollution in their own water bodies due to open defecation and it is a major cause of their diseases and ill-health. 
 
 Being mostly daily wagers, they lose out economically, besides their families suffering. It makes them further dependent on help.
 
  Is it not the state’s responsibility to improve civic amenities, particularly in rural hamlets?
 
 Yes it is. But state resources will never be commensurate with expanding rural needs. Hence, the need for combined responsibility. All have to be partners in transformation.
 
 Do you think the outrage over your decision to link hygiene with welfare measures was justified?
 
 It is dependent on beliefs and perceptions, on how one looks at it. Every coin has two sides.
 
  Why did you withdraw your order within a few hours of your ‘no toilets-no-free rice’ decision?
 
 That was because I felt the intention was being misread. And that I needed to do more homework. And that I needed to be still more patient to existing insanitary conditions. I have been seeing people suffer in rural areas. And work even harder, with more hope...
 
  Do you think you overstepped?
 
  Perhaps in fast forwarding the application and implementation of laws in solid waste management. It is applicable to rural   too.
 
 In any case a welfare government like that of the Congress in Puducherry would not have heeded your order. It would have led to another round of confrontation.
 
 Administration is not for populism. It is for the larger good – present and for future generations. We all leave behind legacies. We either suffer them or benefit from them.
 
  How do you rate rural sanitation scenario in Puducherry or Tamil Nadu when compared to other parts where you have served?
 
 I do not know about Tamil Nadu. But in Puducherry, it is not in consonance with legal provisions and rules laid down for solid waste management – the laws made by the Parliament and rules framed by the Puducherry government.
 
  When did you realise the magnitude of the reaction to your order, which led to you withholding it?
 
  On seeing the feedback. I thought it needed more understanding, which is why we (Team Raj Nivas) decided to lead the cleaning of villages. People cannot wait. We have to save our rural poor from dengue and other water-borne diseases. Our forthcoming weekend rounds will include cleaning up of one particular village, pre-announced. Whoever wishes to join in will leave the village cleaner.
 
 
