After completing her last TV show, ' ',   was recently home in Noida to 'chill'. Nikita, who did a TV show ' ' and is now working with Akshay Kumar in 'Gold', says that after completing a show, she prefers taking some time off. "When a show ends, I need some time to chill, as I feel that I have grown five years older after doing it! I need at least a month to rejuvenate. This happens with   shows. If you do a show continuously for more than a year, you feel 10 years older. My idea of chilling is to detox, and after you complete a project, there's so much to unlearn and start afresh," says Nikita, who was also one of the finalists of   2012.

  
  
  For Nikita, spending time in Delhi or Noida is the perfect way to unwind. "In Mumbai, life is always on the go, but in Delhi I get a break, it gives me a lot of peace. Here I feel like I am on a pampered holiday and I am treated like a princess. I stayed at Janpath for three years and I loved that place. At our home, we even had space to have a kitchen garden. I also used to go for a run around   and India Gate. That was the best experience I had in Delhi. I haven't been to many places in Noida. I only remember Atta Market from my visits as a child here," says the actress, who might love her Delhi visits, but when it comes to go ing out in  , she prefers not stepping out after 7pm. 
 
  
  Nikita Dutta
 
 "As I have spent most of my life in Mumbai, to me, Delhi has always been the place where you come,meet relatives and make sure you are home before 7pm. The only time I step out is when I want to shop or go to the gym. Since Mumbai is my city and is a lot safer, I take a lot of liberty, but as my parents are here, I come under parental rule of returning home early. We hear so many stories about Delhi and Noida being unsafe for girls that I feel it is better to return home early evening. My Delhi friends keep telling me that it is safe here, but I always ask them to meet me for lunch. And if I have to go out for dinner, I prefer having my family with me," she says.
 
  
  
 
 Nikita recalls an incident when she was out in Delhi late at night. "The only time when I was out till late was on New Year's Eve last year and I faced something freaky. We went to a friend's place, which was a few kilometers ahead of Gurgaon. My friends and I were waiting for a cab outside the colony when a man, who was completely stoned, came out of his car. He was smiling and then he took out a gun. Thank God, he was clumsy and slow, so we got time to get into the car and escape. That was one odd experience I had here," says Nikita.
 
  
  
 
  After working in films and three TV shows, Nikita says she is hoping to be back on the small screen soon, provided the content is interesting. "I do not see myself doing reality shows like ' ', but when it comes to dance reality shows or hosting one of them, I might do that. I feel I will die in 'Bigg Boss'. I am not picky about the medium – I would love to do another show on TV. However, working on TV shows has its pros and cons. The good part of working on TV is that it is like a monthly job and the stability factor is great. But the work is hectic – it is a minimum of 12 hours a day. You have to compromise on your social life. Every time a show starts, I have to cut down on my time with friends. Also, sometimes working for long hours, almost 16 hours in a day, takes a toll on your health. After 'Ek Duje Ke Vaaste', my health deteriorated. We used to work for 16 hours a day and for two-and-a-half months, I didn't get any off and I was down with dengue, which also relapsed. Doing a TV show is like temporarily getting married to it," says Nikita.
  
  
 
 
