BENGALURU: A special CBI court, while rejecting the bail plea of an accused in a corruption case — the man had been at large for 12 years — ruled that the acquittal of the main accused in the case is no grounds for leniency. CBI sleuths finally tracked down and arrested   from Madurai, Tamil Nadu, in the first week of April this year, 12 years after a case was registered against him. Khader will now have to stand trial.

 The curious case goes back to 2006, when the   ( ) found Khader and R Yellaiah, a superintendent of customs in the postal appraising department, had conspired to cheat the government of customs duty. Sleuths allegedly found that in 2005,   had cleared speed post parcels containing computer parts without collecting customs duty. It allegedly led to a loss of Rs 24,73,830 to the government exchequer.
 
 Summons was served on Yellaiah, who appeared before the court and was granted bail. He was eventually acquitted in 2011. The summons against Khader, however, remained unserved since he had disappeared.
 
 The lower court closed the case against Khader in 2009 after it found the prosecution had no evidence against him. But the CBI challenged the verdict before the high court, which directed the lower court to treat proceedings in the case as long pending and to re-open the case against the Khader, the second accused. Sleuths were directed to track down Khader and produce him before the lower court when found.
 
 That hunt went on for 12 years, eventually ending last month. Khader was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. He immediately moved for bail, claiming he was innocent and that the co-accused in the same case was acquitted.
 
 However, in her order on April 30, S H  , CBI special court judge, ruled: “The submission made by the counsel for accused No 2 (Khader) with respect to acquittal of accused No 1 (Yellaiah) by the court cannot be taken into consideration by this court. Only because accused No 1 has been acquitted, this court cannot grant bail to accused No 2, who was absconding from the court since 2006 and against whom split-up charge sheet has been filed.”
 
 The court further stated that since Khader is a permanent resident of Madurai, there is every possibility that he would abscond again. The court therefore rejected Khader’s bail plea. 
 
 
