errace gardens are not going well with Trichy residents, it seems. Even though the department of horticulture had distributed 6,000 kits in two years, only around 200 people were able to maintain their gardens. The hot weather of Trichy is said to be the major hindrance to the scheme becoming popular. Despite all odds, the officials from the department of horticulture are planning to make the scheme a success among the masses. The department has decided to take the scheme to rural pockets, like Manapparai and Lalgudi. Though the department had given 6,000 kits to the people for the last two years, there was not much patronage for the scheme owing to the unfavourable climate condition prevailing in the city. Maintaining a home garden for organic vegetables could be possible only if their area was surrounded by trees, like Srirangam, said S Kannan who has a garden on his terrace. "During summer, it is very difficult to maintain plants properly on the terrace. Naturally, the atmospheric temperature during summer in Trichy is very high. Adding to that is the heat generating from concrete buildings by way of radiation and reflection, which plants are not able to withstand," he added. However, T Vincy John, who is maintaining a kitchen garden on her terrace at Anbu Nagar in the city, said anything was possible if one could put effort and spend time. "I am reaping rich dividends from my garden. The only thing is one should devote themselves. I have a variety of vegetables, fruits and ornamental plants in my garden," she said. She wanted the polythene covers distributed by the horticulture department should be of good quality so that can be used for few more years. We had distributed 6,000 kits to the people in the city during 2015-16 and the same number in the following year. Our plan is to distribute 10,000 kits this year by covering rural pockets too, R Krishnamoorthy, deputy director of horticulture department told TOI. "The climate in many parts of the Trichy district made the scheme unpopular among the people. The radiation from the buildings causes poor production. This would ultimately bring down the enthusiasm among the people. Lack of trees keeps the heat wave alive even in the night. Despite all the odds, some people from Srirangam and E Pudhur area are doing it properly, he added.