AHMEDABAD:  , a 56-year-old NRI is in Ahmedabad to pursue a   that he and his five partners in the US have filed against  , his wife Dhavni, and two other persons. Patel alleges that Parikh and others have cheated him of 16.5 lakh US dollars by forging their signatures and obtaining loans and credit cards.

  
  Patel’s complaint is pending against Parikh and others at a Chicago police station in the US. Patel is a native of Anand who has been settled in Schaumburg, a suburb of Chicago, for 35 years. 
 
 He has alleged in an application to the cyber cell of the Ahmedabad crime branch that Parikh and Dhavni, who are natives of Ahmedabad, approached him in 2014 in Schaumburg with a proposal. “Parikh proposed that my partners — Satish Patel, Umesh Patel, Girish Patel, and Sagar Patel — and I invest in gas stations he planned to run in the US,” Patel said. “Parikh said he would take care of the business and give a share of hefty profits. We trusted him and agreed.” Patel owns several gas stations on franchise. 
 
  
  Patel, who has also approached the Anand Police, has said in his application to the cyber crime branch that he invested 4 lakh US dollars, his partner Satish Patel pumped in 3.5 lakh US dollars, and others contributed about 9 lakh US dollars. “Parikh and Dhavni used to look after every aspect of the business — from bank transactions to purchase and sale of fuel from,” Patel said. “One day in March 2016, I got a letter from a bank saying that I have been denied a loan, but I could be given a credit of 1 lakh US dollars for a period of 60 months. I was shocked because neither my wife Parul, who is a partner in the firm, nor I had never applied for the loan. We started getting more letters regarding credit cards and lease contracts.”
 
 Patel said he lodged a complaint with the Chicago police against Parikh and others for breach of trust and forgery. However, by that time the Parikhs had left the US and returned to India. “We started corresponding with the   via emails, urging them to help the Chicago police to nab the accused,” Patel said. “Things did not move so I have personally come to India.”
 
 Complainants allege threats 
 
 In his application submitted to the Anand police, Kamlesh Patel has alleged that they traced Hardik to Sola area of Ahmedabad. “When we demanded our money back, the Parikhs threatened us with dire consequences,” Patel said.
 
 
