 BJP leaders didn’t waste time to come out of the embarrassment the party was thrown into after Trinamool’s former MLA   pulled out of the race as aBJP candidate, leaving its leader   with egg on his face.

 BJP’s central election committee on Monday gave ticket to BJP North 24 Parganas district president   in place of Basu. A cost accountant by profession, Sandip is a resident of Barrackpore and known to be close to BJP state president  .
 
 There was high drama in Noapara soon after Manju’s name as BJP contestant was announced on Sunday evening. Manju, who had called on Mukul and BJP national general secretary in charge of West Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya, was out of reach soon after the announcement till she told the media that she was with Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee.
 
 Mukul was hoping against hope saying that the former TMC MLA had come under tremendous pressure from Trinamool leaders. According to sources, Trinamool North 24 Parganas leaders — Nirmal Ghosh and Jyotipriya Mallick — were in touch with her all the time trying to persuade her to stay back in Trinamool. Even Mamata called Manju over the phone to prevent her from joining BJP. “It was an extraordinary situation. There is no democracy in Bengal,” BJP leader Mukul said. Family members said Manju couldn’t take the pressure she and some of her relatives had come under since she gave vent to her frustration about her present plight in Trinamool a few days ago.
 
 “Manju had got in touch with Mukul and Vijayvargiya. Mukul wanted her to join BJP. She was also willing. But then, she and her family members came under threat from the ruling Trinamool forcing her to back out,” said Dilip.
 
 The Manju episode came as a shot in the arm for Trinamool, with party seniors like Partha Chatterjee to Trinamool’s Birbhum president Anubrata Mandal hitting out at Mukul’s “mischievous ploy” to weaken Trinamool. “
 (garbage) stunt didn’t work. He (Mukul Roy) tried to play a mischief with the intent to do harm to Mamata Banerjee and her party. It didn’t materialise. He should dump his cunning plans and try to build up organisation at Noapara,” Partha said.
 
 Jyotipriya said: “Mukul Roy is in a hurry to outdo Dilip Ghosh and earn some brownie points from BJP central leaders. Mukul had thus planned to poach Trinamool’s Manju Basu, who is also an office-bearer of the party’s women cell. But Basu didn’t get waylaid.
 
 Calling Mukul a “cheat” Anubrata said: “Mukul Roy is a cheat of the first order. He tried to manipulate defection in our party.”
 
 Learning it hard from Manju’s instance, the BJP CEC didn’t take the trouble of experimenting with names. It chose party organisers — North 24 Parganas district president Sandip Banerjee for the Noapara assembly bypoll and party’s Howrah (rural) president Anupam Mallik for the Uluberia Lok Sabha bypoll on January 29.
 
