MADURAI: Rain brings much cheer to the people of the state, but for residents of Madurai city it also heralds misery. Almost every section of the 1,572 kms of road traversing the city is damaged, some very badly. Worse,   which get done up temporarily with patchworks crumble into smithereens when the rain comes down. Remember, most of these roads have not seen a full repair for over a quarter of a century.

 Patch works have been a common mode of refurbishing roads, where the pits formed on them are filled with gravel or tar based on the time frame within which the roads have to be repaired. In recent times, major roads such as Villapuram road, Goripalayam road and Gokhale road managed to get a facelift as they figured in the route of the chief minister who visited the city a couple of times. The 80 feet Anna Nagar road was another one which was repaired for the VVIP visit. During festive times like  , when Lord Kallazhagar comes to Madurai, potholes are filled using gravel. 
 
 In short, festivals and VVIP visits should be a matter of relief for city residents as they get better roads. However, the fact is these are short-lived luxuries as they are filled temporarily and give away after a spell of rain as one sees now. On Monday, DMK’s Madurai urban district DMK youth wing organizer, Neethirajan, attempted to bring the attention of the district collector   to the bad state of the Pudur Sidco road. Though the industrial estate stands here, it has remained notoriously famous as one of the worst roads for travel in Madurai for over 20 years. The road is so pothole-ridden that finding an undamaged stretch for even two feet is difficult. The   Main road and P T Rajan roads are the other ones where many educational institutions figure too. Here, it is the students who suffer most because their cycles get punctured every other day when they take the road. 
 
 Madurai experienced intermittent rainfall of just a few millimetres in the last few days, but that was enough to expose the condition of the roads. P T Rajan second street, Sonnaiyarkoil street and many others nearby were filled with the muddy rainwater due to the depth of the potholes. Vaigai South Bank road, which connects Teppakulam with Kuruvikkaransalai, is another road where a motorist is in danger of falling onto the river bed as he navigates through the potholes.
 
 Chinnakadai street and Manjanakara street, near the iconic   temple, are badly damaged, which have not seen repair for quite some time now. K Selvamani of Narimedu says that his doctor advised him to avoid the Narimedu main road when he went to him with a bad back ache. ``Vehicle shock absorbers have no chance on this road,’’ he said.
 
 DMK’s  , P T R P   said that the roads were so bad due to two major reasons, one, the lack of a masterplan for traffic management and two, the massive corruption in contracts for road works as well as the lack of transparency in the process. ``This government has made it worse and poor planning has made the situation bad,’’ he said. The total length of the roads in Madurai city is 1,572 kms, of which 947 kms is bitumen road, 125 km metal roads and 207 kms are sand roads. The common thread that binds them is that over 75 % of all three types are in very bad condition.
 
 
