THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The key difference between the 2006 LDF government, led by VS Achuthanandan, and the 2016 LDF government, led by  , is that while the former tried to change the course of governance launched by the preceding   government, the incumbent one hasn't attempted to disrupt the social and economic equilibrium created by its predecessor. But, the jury is divided on this matter. 

 
 Ideal Leftists see this as a leaning towards the right, pro-government sources interpret it as a pragmatic approach towards governance.
 
 The perfect example is Vizhinjam seaport project. The award of the project to   by the UDF government was vehemently criticized by the then opposition CPM. But, after assuming office, Vijayan hasn't uttered a word against the project. When   criticized the government for flaws in the deal, the chief minister assigned a retired high court judge as judicial commission and sought a probe.
 
 Revamping of   and using it as a vehicle outside the budget to fund infrastructure project is also not in line with the economic ideals of the Communist party. Though there is no clarity on how to deal with the debt that KIIFB will accumulate for future Kerala, the new-gen financial institution has become the spine of Kerala's finances. Again, something which ideal Leftists view as surrendering to the designs of global finance forces. Another example they cite is enactment of Ease of Doing Business Act, which had compromised several ecological and social borderlines.
 
 As the government completes two years in office - a tenure that saw the resignations of three ministers and the return of one among them - on Friday, the stage is being readied for an infrastructure development blitzkrieg.
 
 The third year of the government will witness the launch of Kannur airport, completion of major portion of Vizhinjam seaport, development of national highways in the north and south regions, construction of hill and coastal highways and completion of CNG project in Kochi. Juxtapose this with the anniversary celebrations of VS government, marked by the demolition of resorts in Munnar and enactment of Kerala Conservation of Paddy Land and Wetland Act that the neoliberals view as steps which backtracked state's development and the difference is very much visible.
 
 Vijayan, who was catapulted to power by the organized force of workers and peasant, has become a darling of the capitalist forces too. His conviction that the state had fallen behind its neighbours in growth is serving as the guiding force for the government.
 
 But, there is a solace. In the pursuit of development, they haven't forgotten the core principles of Left politics. There are sincere attempts to rejuvenate environment, strengthen public education and healthcare and give due care for the marginalized. Whether the development experiment wins or not, the social initiatives will work in the government's favour.
 
