TIRUNELVELI: School and college students from Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari districts continued their protests for the third day on Wednesday against the government for hiking the bus fares last week. However, police and   (TNSTC) officials are confident that the situation will come under control from Thursday as the government has announced that concession for college students will continue like earlier.

 A senior TNSTC official said they have received a circular from their head office in Chennai on Wednesday that only 50% of the old ticket fare will be collected from students of private schools and colleges. “It is with effect from Wednesday due to resistance from students across the state. Concession on the old fare is expected to continue throughout this year or till we receive further instructions,” he added.
 
 Students who took part in the protests at Tuticorin and Kanyakumari said their protests were not just for themselves but also because their entire families are affected. Rural students studying in some government schools said that they have 100% concessional bus pass but they have buses to school and back home only once during the school hours. In case of special classes they have to travel by private or mini buses.
 
 Due to bus fare escalation, mini buses that operate in large numbers at Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district and   in Kanyakumari district have increased their fares too. At Kovilpatti, students of VOC Boys Higher Secondary School on the Ettayapuram Road staged a demonstration by raising slogans to register their protest.
 
 Meanwhile, government employees staged a demonstration on the premises of the Tirunelveli collectorate. In Nagercoil, more than 500 students, including girls from Scott Christian College staged a dharna in front of their college for the second day on Wednesday. The protest went on for about an hour until they were pacified by their teachers.
 
 Another group of students from the Government Higher Secondary School at Sankarankovil who were heading for a demonstration were sent back to school after being issued a warning. Students of the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University Constituent College at Govindaperi too staged a dharna.
 
 
