VIJAYAWADA: Even after 70 years of Independence, atrocities are still being committed against Dalits. The discrimination, which they have been facing down the years, deviates from the   and the laws to prevent such social maladies in the country. 

 The   (HRF)conducted a programme to observe the 50th year of Arikatla Kotesu, which is known as Kanchikacherla Kotesu’s gruesome murder.
 
 Kanchikacherla Kotesu was set on fire by upper caste people who poured kerosene on him and accused him of stealing a bronze tumbler on February 24, 1968 at Kanchikacherla in Krishna district. 
 
 This is the first incident of atrocity against dalits in Andhra Pradesh that shook the entire nation. Indira Gandhi who was the then Prime Minister responded over the incident and also made a statement on the same in Parliament.
 
 General secretary of HRF K Sudha said that even after 50 years of Kanchickacherla Kotesu incident, nothing has changed in the state. 
 
 Atrocities and violence against dalits continue unabated even today, for which Garagaparru and Pedagottipadu incidents stand as vindication to this phenomenon.
 
 She took objection to the recent judgment by the  , which has stated that the SC/ST Atrocities Prevention Act is being misused and the accused will be arrested only after conducting preliminary enquiry and establishing prima facie. This judgement is a gross injustice by the top court in the country, she asserted.
 
 A Ratna Prasad, convenor of HRF for Guntur district, said it is unfortunate that the apex court of the country has not democratised even today and those giving judgements do not have the knowledge of ground realities. He lashed out at TDP government for isolating Pedagottipadu village after dalits were attacked by the people belonging to upper castes. J Jaya Bhagyamma from Pedagottipadu said Dalits in the village continue to suffer even after three months of the incident. She said they are denied entry into some streets and police have not arrested the perpetrators yet.
 
 
