Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras High Court has observed that the central government and archaeological survey of India (ASI) are ignoring the archaeological importance sites in Tamil Nadu. 

 The observation was made after the court came to know that the report of excavations carried out in Aadhichanallur village in Thoothukudi district in 1876, 1879 and 2003-2005 were yet to be submitted. The court also came to know that the Thoothukudi district collector had permitted a sand quarry near the Aadhichanallur archaeological site last year.
 
 “There is an allegation that the central government and its ASI are not interested in carrying out excavations in archeological importance sites in Tamil Nadu. We were actually not believing in it. But, you (ASI) give strength to the allegation. Fourteen year ago, excavations were carried out Aadhichanallur village in Thoothukudi district, but you were not taking action to release reports in that regard. Your inaction proves the allegation. You want somebody to file writ to release report?,” asked the division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and R Tharani. The public interest litigation plea was filed by S Kamaraj alias Muthalakurichi.
 
 The standing counsel for ASI said so far three excavations were carried out there and professor Sathyamoorthy conducted the last excavation work and is yet to submit report, the counsel said.
 
 On the sand mining permit issued by the district collector, the court said, “Such things will not occur in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh. Tamil Nadu sends sand to Kerala, but our own people of Tamil Nadu allows e-waste from Kerala by accepting bribes, which causes ecological problem.”
 
 “Let the collector appear before the court on Thursday and file affidavit saying that no licence would be given to quarry near the site and to protect the same by fencing the entire area,” the court added.
 
 The bench then impleaded professor Sathyamoorthy in the case and directed the ASI to submit a list of archaeological sites available in Tamil Nadu and in how many of them excavations were done so far.
 
 The petitioner had said that ASI found a burial site that was spread over 14 acres on one of the banks of Thamirabarani river and unearthed hundreds of urns with human skeletons besides iron weapons, gold ornaments, bronze and other valuables. The skeletons found, dated back to 3,800 years, were taken to Chennai. Before that, German national Jagor conducted an excavation at Aadhichanallur in 1876 and got 50 types of utensils and human skulls and skeletons, which are still preserved in a museum in Berlin in Germany. He also wanted the court to issue direction to the   to get back articles from Germany and put the same in the museum at Aadhichanallur.
 
 
