By:   

 As a parent of a 5-year-old, I often wonder whether, growing up in a cosmopolitan environment, my daughter will ever know and connect with the story of my growing-up years. Many of us now living in cities like   belong to a generation that benefited from economic liberalisation. So, the life we had, and the choices we grew up with, were dramatically different from what our kids are experiencing.
 
 And we often wonder if our children will ever be able to relate to what it took for us to move up and succeed, and, more importantly, understand the value of it. Some of us believe we faced more challenges (and that our children must understand and appreciate this). Because we want our kids to hear our stories, and to show interest in them, we end up disappointed when they don’t.
 
 A possible reason for this lack of interest might be that the story of our lives isn’t as exciting and romantic as we like to think it is (how interesting can a tale of growing up in a middle-class household, with its attendant struggles, be?). Or, there could be a bigger reason – you are not good at telling your story.
 
 And yet, when we look around, there are people among us – friends and colleagues, uncles and aunts – about whom we know more than others. There are people whose life we find more intriguing and aspirational, some of whom we look up to as role models. And you would find they themselves (or someone else) told us their stories, which we came to like.
 
 The inescapable truth is that we need to tell the stories of our lives and tell them better. Because these narratives provide a way of understanding our place in the scheme of things by structuring our understanding of events.
 
 So, have you ever thought what your life story is? I don’t mean where you grew up, where you went to school, where you got your first job, etc. I mean, what’s your STORY? What narrative arc have you constructed from the events of your life?
 
 Storytelling plays a very important role. According to ‘narrative psychology’, the stories we tell about ourselves are the key to our well-being. While, perhaps, the facts of one’s life, presented end to end, wouldn’t much resemble a narrative to the outside observer, the way people choose to tell the stories of their lives, to others and, crucially, to themselves, almost always has a narrative arc. In telling the story of how you came to be who you are (and of who you’re on your way to becoming), the story itself becomes a part of who you are.
 
 As we grow, we tend to connect to the lives of people around us, including our parents, through this narrative arc. My dad is one of my heroes because of the narrative of him that I have constructed in my head – from where he started, the struggles he faced, the way he responded to tough situations, and where he reached in the end.
 
 There’s an old adage that everyone has a book inside of them. But even if we – as the writer   once put it – are “storytelling animals”, what does that mean from one person to the next? Not only are there individual differences in how people think of their stories, there’s a lot of variation in the degree to which they engage in narrative storytelling.
 
 It’s not possible for us to be heroic every day in every circumstance. But there are enough situations at the workplace, and in the community, where we came up trumps. It is important that we pick the right ones and share them with our kids, to complete the eventual narrative arc in their understanding of us. And like personal taste in books or movies, the stories we tell ourselves about ourselves are influenced by more than just, well, ourselves. The way people recount experiences to others seems to shape the way they themselves end up remembering those events.
 
 All of us, then, have stories. We just need to tell them. And tell them better. We owe it to our kids and to ourselves. Because, just as there are consequences to telling stories, there are also consequences to not telling our stories well, to everyone else and to ourselves.
 
 (The author is Chief Strategy Officer,  )
 
 
