Director V A Shrikumar Menon’s   has grabbed headlines for many reasons, one being Mohanlal’s rigorous training to lose weight and appear ‘younger’ for his role in the movie.

 The filmmaker now tells us that it’s not just   who would be seen in different looks but   as well, who will portray the different stages of life of her character.
 
 “Her character is shown in her late 20s, at 35 and in her 50s. She will have three looks in the movie. Her character is pivotal as both Mohanlal’s and Prakash Raj’s roles revolve around her,” says the director.
 
 Her role, Shrikumar says, will “be one of most powerful woman characters in Malayalam cinema”. “It’s definitely one of the finest roles she has played,” he says. “She has had a stellar career, but the role that stands out is that in Aaram Thampuram, because she was pitted against Mohanlal. In her comeback movies, apart from Ennum Eppozhum, most of her roles were solo heroine movies. I believe actors excel in their roles when they share screen space with other brilliant performers. In Odiyan, she is pitted against two of India’s finest actors — Mohanlal and  .”
 
 Manju rose to the challenge and has come all guns blazing, putting up a “brilliant performance in the movie’s first schedule,” says the director.
 
 For Manju though, the project was “more thrilling than challenging”, the actress says. “It’s the same with Lalettan as well and that’s why he was ready to take up the task of undergoing a makeover for his character. It just shows how much interested he is in the movie and all the credit goes to the director Shrikumar and the scriptwriter Harikrishnan,” she says. “To be part of such a project with Lalettan would be a dream for any actor.”
 
 On working with Mohanlal, Manju says, “Movies with Lalettan have always been memorable — in terms of shooting as well as the acceptance they have got. I am expecting the same for Odiyan too because it’s got a strong character and brilliant script. It’s the first time I am working with Prakash Raj sir, so it’s really a blessing.”
 
 Meanwhile, director Shrikumar says unlike in Manju’s previous films such as Aaram Thampuran, in which her character is rarely present after the interval, “she is there throughout the movie and has to sustain the momentum for the whole film, which she does”. 
 
 During the upcoming schedule, set to begin in February 5, the younger portions of the character will be shot. Apart from the leading trio, the movie, which is touted to be a fantasy thriller, also has Narain, Siddique, Innocent and Sana Althaf.
 
