GURUGRAM: Residents of DLF-1 filed a third petition against the MCG and   Energy Pvt Ltd, the agency appointed by it for building integrated waste management plant, in the National Green Tribunal ( ) on Friday. 

 They alleged while MCG had transferred the land to Ecogreen for building the waste transfer centre in Khasra number 482, the plant is being developed at Khasra number 483, which comes under the ‘gair mumkin pahar’, a protected forest zone under a notification of the   (MoEF) in 1992. 
 
 “It is a criminal act to construct on the protected and without the permission from the MoEF, hence we have moved the green court with the petition,” said Ravindra  , one of the petitioners. The petition was filed in the court on Friday and the complaint number is OA 21 (2018).
 
 Yadav added that the matter is likely to be heard on Monday. There are three more petitioners in the case from DLF phase –one and Silver Oaks Apartments. The Haryana state pollution control board and the forest department are also respondents in the case.
 
 This is the third case that the residents from DLF phase 1 have filed against the upcoming waste transfer station in their neighbourhood. The first two cases have been for the construction of waste transfer centre in Aravali zone and the fact that construction of the waste transfer centre obstructs a natural drain.
 
 According to the MCG officials, the hearing of the first case is expected to take place on January 25. “ The matter is now in the NGT and we will not be able to make any comments on the matter as it is in the court,” said joint commissioner, MCG, Y.S Gupta.
 
 The waste transfer centre has been a bone of contention between the residents, MCG officials and the appointed agency. The residents have opposed the waste transfer quoting environmental reasons and the fact that a waste transfer centre next to the residential area would be an eye sore and a cause of stench.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the residents from DLF 1 had expressed discontent over the location of a waste transfer centre being developed in the vicinity of their residential society claiming that the center would be a nuisance for the residents living next to the centre.
 
  “The waste collection centre is placed right next to our houses and once the garbage starts piling up, it would be a huge problem for the people living in the area,” said one of the residents from the neighbourhood.
 
 
