PATNA: RJD on Wednesday demanded from   governor to allow the post-poll alliance of   and JD(S) to form the next government in the southern state.

 RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son and leader of opposition   tweeted that he was hopeful that Karnataka governor would follow the precedence set by the then   governor K N Tripathi on July 27, last year by allowing the BJP- JD(U) alliance to form the government, even as RJD was still the single largest party.
 
 “I am sure that honourable governor of Karnataka will follow the precedence set by (the then acting) Bihar governor K N Tripathi on July 27 last year to do justice and maintain the dignity of Constitution. I am also sure that BJP would not have a problem with that,” RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s son and leader of opposition   Prasad Yadav tweeted on Wednesday.
 
 Tejashwi was referring to July 26, 2017 episode when Bihar CM Nitish Kumar with 70JD(U) MLAs had quit as CM of the Grand Alliance government of RJD, JD(U) and Congress. Within a couple of hours of tendering his resignation as the CM, Nitish joined hands with the BJP and staked claim before acting governor K N Tripathi to form the government.
 
 BJP had 53 and five other NDA MLAs to support him. Though RJD with 80 MLAs was the largest party, the governor did not invite them. “After the betrayal of mandate (by JD-U) in Bihar 10 months ago, the RJD was and is the single largest party, but we were not called by the governor to form the government. I waited and sat on a dharna outside the governor’s house with our MLAs till 2am, but didn't get time to meet him. Let’s see what happens in Karnataka,” Tejashwi said.
 
 The Yadav scion also said Lalu’s formula of a ‘Mahagathbandhan’ (grand alliance) at national level is the only way to defeat the BJP-led NDA in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. “A grand alliance at the national level is the best option to defeat the BJP. It should be on the lines of Lalu ji’s formula to bring all non-BJP parties on one platform, like we did in Bihar to defeat the BJP,” Tejashwi told reporters.
 
 
