Chennai: Tamil Nadu fisheries minister D Jayakumar threw an open challenge to the DMK, which has been boycotting the ongoing assembly session, on Friday saying the ruling party was willing to engage in a debate on the Sterlite issue. “We are willing to have a debate on Sterlite. Not just for one day, but for the entire year. It is the   that is scared and running away,” Jayakumar told reporters here.

 The DMK is firm on its   plan. After holding a   session in Chennai, it is planning similar sessions in Tirunelveli (June 5), Trichy (June 8) and Salem (June 12). The party’s chief whip has asked all the 88 MLAs to be present in those mock assembly sessions. Allied party MLAs, including the Congress and IUML, are also expected to attend them.
 
 However, there are growing murmurs among a section of the DMK legislators that the opposition party is missing out on opportunities to take on the government. They are silent though, because nobody wants to question party working president M K Stalin’s decision.
 
 “There are several other issues, besides Sterlite, which call for answers from the government. The CBI probe is on into the gutka scam, but the main offenders named in the case, including health minister C Vijayabaskar and DGP T K Rajendran, are continuing working in their respective posts. Without a strong opposition in the House, the government is getting off scot-free,” said a DMK MLA on condition of anonymity. “It is the party leadership’s decision to boycott the session. We need to abide by it,” the legislator added.
 
 Congress leader Peter Alphonse too feels the results are better achieved by participating in the assembly debates, than staying outside. “Of late, it has become a tendency to reduce the number of days of an assembly session to the bare minimum. The opposition is missing out even that opportunity to take on the government. But, it is also the responsibility of the ruling party to reach out to the opposition in an honourable way and invite them. In the past, we had also boycotted. But, then chief minister M Karunanidhi sent senior ministers to our chambers to invite us back. What Jayakumar did was ridiculing and undermining the issue raised by the opposition,” Alphonse said.
 
 “Assembly or Parliament is the place for raising important issues concerning people. By boycotting it, nothing can be achieved by the opposition,” said analyst Tharasu Shyam.
 
 
