CHENNAI: Against the backdrop of allegations of state becoming a hotbed of extremism with high incidence of crime, the   government on Monday sought to put its house in order, directing district collectors and superintendents of police to ensure law and order. 

 At the annual conference of district collectors and superintendents of police, being held after a gap of five years at the state secretariat, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami told the packed hall, “Terrorism, communalism and leftist terrorism are the biggest challenges of the society. If we should confront them, we must weed out the terror outfits by strengthening the investigative arms.” Urging them to work with an aim of taking the state on a high growth trajectory, the CM said, “Continue to ensure the state remains peaceful (Amaithi poonga) on the path set out by   (Jayalalithaa).” The entire state cabinet was present at the meeting.
 
 Palaniswami advised officials to enforce the provisions of National Security Act on individuals or outfits if they posed threat to national and domestic security; bring under constant vigil communally-sensitive areas and ensure harmony; ensure visible policing with adequate CCTVs, stern action against usury, web-based gambling, sale of gutka, economic offences, crime against women and children, and implementation of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Effective steps should be taken against spurious liquor, adequate safety mechanism in temples to prevent tragedies like   in Madurai, and strengthen surveillance in prisons as well. Special attention should be given towards coordination between coast guard and coastal district machinery, he said.
 
 The day-long session had each collector and SP/commissioner of police detailing the law and order issues in their respective districts. 
 
 While it was Maoist movement and disturbing trend of rise in POCSO cases in Nilgiris, it was the issue of cross-border woodcutters of Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri getting involved in smuggling of red sanders, and crossing of IMBL by fishermen of Nagapattinam and other coastal districts. Having learned the hard lessons from Meenkashi Temple fire, Madurai officials offered suggestions how to avert tragedies in HR&CE-managed temples. 
 
 Kanyakumari demanded amenities for cyclone Ockhi-affected areas, while Tiruvannamalai sought better infrastructure for the temple town. Collectors of Salem, Dharmapuri and Tirunelveli took pride in introducing mobile Apps to take the government services to homes. “Many of them demanded better policing facilities, including buildings, patrol vehicles, bifurcation of divisions for inspectors and deputy superintendents of police,” said a senior officer. Government sources said collectors would dwell on “development” on Tuesday and on Wednesday, when the meeting concludes, the chief minister is expected to make announcements.
 
 
