MUMBAI: The largest and one of the most popular cafeteria in the academia area of  ,  , will no longer serve non-vegetarian food, following a ban imposed by the civil engineering department. Anger swept the student community, after the department banned sale and cooking of non-vegetarian items in their café.

 The institute has cited ‘health and safety concerns’ following the   fire as the prime reason. Students, however, said that the ban is to impose the food culture of a small section of people on the whole student community.
 
 The notice issued to the contractor of the   on January 20 imposed a ban on non-vegetarian items, restricted the café’s timings, banned outside people (non-civil engineering students) from entering the café. The move comes after a recent mail, asking students from hostel 11 to use separate plates for non-vegetarian food, was issued. The circular was withdrawn later.
 
 The Café is popular for the options it provides. The ambience is appealing too as it is the only terrace cafeteria on the campus, said a student. “It is surprising the department has banned non-veg items where 90% of people eat nonveg food. The ban seems to impose the food culture of a section of people,” said a student.
 
 An institute spokesperson, however, said that most measures have been imposed following the Kamala Mills fire incident. “This is the only terrace cafeteria we have. It is not fit for cooking... Some students even complained of food poisoning. The non-vegetarian food is brought in the morning and kept till evening. Since it gets spoilt faster and is the major cause for food poisoning, the department has banned it,” said the spokesperson. The café also is used by students from other departments and had become a party hub of sorts even beyond academic hours, said the official.
 
 Afaculty member said the department could have ensured only fresh food is served, if health and safety was the concern. Dean of students’ affairs,  , said non-vegetarian food is not banned on campus and is served at all canteens and mess. “We will look at having a similar eating joint like the civil cafe in a non-academic area,” he said. The institute’s canteens and messes are in the hostel area, while the cafeterias are near academic ones.
 
 
