Fourteen-year-old V Priyadarshini used to dread the approaching evening. That's when her father would invariably arrive home drunk, beat up her mother, hurl abuses and lock them out of the house for the night.

 
 Such episodes still happen but the girl from   village in  's Villupuram district sees hope now. There's a chance that her father may get rehabilitated, thanks to self-help groups for de-addiction, formed by  , a Cuddalore-based NGO. Today, she harbours career goals she couldn't have imagined a few months ago. "I want to become a doctor who treats cancer," says Priyadarshini.
 
 The youngster is one of Vellore a bunch of 50 girls, aged between 10 and 18, who are spearheading change in a district infamous for caste crimes and child trafficking.
 
 Thennamadevi could pass off for any village in Tamil Nadu - a few pucca homes among several mud dwellings; lanky boys playing street cricket under the sweltering sun; green expanses of paddy and sleepy cattle that seem to be forever on the loose. Many of its kids come from tough homes - alcoholic fathers, widowed mothers, crippling poverty, and overwhelming loans.
 
 Failed by a patriarchal system that denies them education, hygiene, and dignity, its girls have now taken matters into their own hands. In the past one year, they ensured lights are installed on the streets they take to school, distributed sanitary napkins to every girl under the government's menstrual hygiene scheme, and are now pushing to get every home its own individual toilet.
 
 The initiative was started by Scope India, which works for marginalised communities, along with  , a UK-based charity that works to protect street children. A survey on vulnerable panchayats for children a couple of years ago brought to light the influence of alcohol addiction in Thennamadevi. "We found that the village had over 90 widows whose husbands had succumbed to illegal arrack addiction," says  , chief functionary at Scope India who's driving this project.
 
 Focusing on safeguarding the kids, the NGO started activity centres a year ago, forming four clubs - two for boys from Scheduled Castes and Most Backward Classes, and two for SC and MBC girls respectively.
 
 The girls' clubs have turned out to be more proactive. They attend every gram sabha meeting where they put forward their demands. They are also constantly engaging club members and working to enroll the 115 adolescent girls in the village who are still left out. They have taken a collective pledge to not marry underage and prevent child marriage in the village. "If these village clubs become a successful model, they could expand to cover the whole district some day. They could go on to become redressal mechanisms for any child-related issue that comes up in Villupuram," says Babu. And Thennamadevi could well become a model for inclusive, child-friendly development in this region.
 
 A Manikandan, one of the NGO representatives working in the village, says the modus operandi is quite effective. "We figured that in a village languishing without basic amenities, its own people - especially its children - made better spokespesons than an NGO coming from outside," he adds.
 
 Two teenagers, M Swathi and Vigneswari, have just been granted fellowships by   for their work in Thennamadevi and to complete their education.
 
 Meanwhile, gathered at the activity centre, the girls are debating yet another issue. Kousalya Radhakrishnan, 18, asks: "How do we ensure the kids get a temple festival this year?" She is surrounded by over two dozen curious and excited girls.
 
 They also take part in village-level child protection committee meetings to suggest ideas to make their schools, anganwadis and activity centres more child-friendly. Committee president P Arumai Nathan says he has lost count of the times the girls have visited him. "They know their rights, they know where to get important certificates from and, unlike adults, they're full of enthusiasm, and put forward their demands in an amicable, constructive way," he says.
 
 But certain barriers continue to hold firm in Thennamadevi. Caste is one. "We have been forced to keep the clubs demarcated for SC and MBC girls. The challenges are many, but at the core of our work is the mission to merge all these differences, which really is the only way for any holistic development to take place," says Manikandan.
 
