BHOPAL:   leader   has condemned the culture of vandalism that has gripped many parts of the country. “When you pull down a statue, you desecrate the culture and principles of this nation,” said the Guna MP and Congress party’s chief whip in the Lok Sabha.

 Jyotiraditya reacted strongly to the ongoing “statue war” between the BJP and Left parties. Following BJP’s huge win in Tripura, a boisterous crowd on Monday pulled down a statue of Vladimir Lenin in Belonia town that was installed by Prakash Karat of the CPM.
 
 A day later, after a Facebook post by BJP national general secretary H Raja, the statue of Dravidian icon EV Ramaswamy Periyar was desecrated in Vellore, Tamil Nadu. And on Wednesday, the Left retaliated by desecrating a statue of Jan Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee in Kolkata.
 
 “Ever since the BJP-led NDA came to power at the Centre, there has been an atmosphere of intolerance in the country,” Jyotiraditya said, while speaking to reporters on Wednesday morning.
 
 “Commit the crime and then refute the same. This has been the BJP policy, while the Prime Minister remains silent on these issues,” the Congress MP said.
 
 The former Union minister of state emphasised that a BJP minister said that it was time to change the Constitution, while another BJP leader had claimed that Nathuram Godse is the “biggest patriot”. He claimed that there is a conspiracy to ravage the secular fabric of the country.
 
 “When you are in power, you must have the courage to say what is right and what is wrong. But, the present government’s philosophy is when it is our workers, it is alright and when another party indulges in vandalism, it is wrong. Such an ideology cannot work in India,” Jyotiraditya said.
 
 Senior   Randeep Singh Surjewala also condemned the toppling and desecration of statues, while holding the BJP responsible for such acts. Jyotiraditya and Surjewala were in the state capital to hold Congress organisational meetings and spoke to reporters at the   (PCC) office.
 
 Surjewala argued that vandalising statues reveal the real character of a political party. “The politics of hate and dividing people is a strategy cultivated by Prime Minister  . BJP national general secretary H Raja gave in writing that the Dravidian icon who worked against the caste oppression of Dalits is next after Lenin. And then his statue gets vandalised in Tamil Nadu,” Surjewala said.
 
 Surjewala said that in Una, a Dalit family was mercilessly beaten up and after former general VK Singh’s anti-Dalit remark, he was rewarded with a ministerial post in the Union government. “All this proves that the BJP is anti-Dalit, anti-poor and anti-women,” Surjewala added.
 
 
