AMRITSAR/CHANDIGARH: AAP leader of opposition   again targeted former   minister   on Sunday — this time for allegedly contaminating water with effluents from his sugar mill at Bhutar Sivian village in Batala.

 Khaira created a controversy as he reached the village on Sunday to check if effluents from Rana Sugars Private Limited were being released without being treated in an adjacent drain, which ultimately merges with the Beas.
 
 Khaira claimed that before his visit to the drain, the former minister collected a large number of armed men outside the factory and near the drain. The police, he complained, acted as a mute spectator. “Instead of taking any action against the goons, the police pressurized me to cancel the programme,” he said.
 
 When he could not get access,   blamed chief minister   Singh for trying to shield his former minister.
 
 “Due to release of polluted waste, residents of surrounding villages are suffering from chronic diseases such as cancer, hepatitis, blindness etc,” claimed Khaira and alleged that the mill had dug several large bores of more than 500 feet within its premises for waste disposal.
 
 “By doing so, the mill has contaminated ground water. The water of surrounding villages has been polluted to such an extent that it cannot be used for drinking and irrigation purposes,” he claimed.
 
 Amarinder accused the AAP leader of trying to trespass into the factory and warned that any attempt to take law in his hands would be dealt with as per law.
 
 Accusing Khaira of indulging in cheap street politics for media and public attention ahead of the Shahkot bypoll, the chief minister said it was obvious that AAP leaders had not learnt a lesson from their series of ignominious electoral defeats, not just in   but across the country. He said Khaira had behaved extremely irresponsibly with his shameless act, adding that as the leader of the opposition, it was Khaira’s responsibility to uphold the law and not defy it.
 
 Rana Gurjit’s son Rana Veer Partap Singh, who is a director of the company, lashed out at Khaira for allegedly running a malicious campaign.
 
 Challenging Khaira to prove even one allegation, Veer Pratap claimed that the firm was running strictly according to the norms of the environment ministry and pollution control board and had all the mandatory clearances.
 
 He denied that Khaira was stopped from visiting the mill premises. “It is so characteristic of Khaira to resort to theatrics and create a hype and eventually beat a hasty retreat, taking one excuse or the other,” said Veer Partap.
 
 
