CHITTORGARH: It's Padmini, not   or Padmavat. This is part of the draft on the final version on the life of   being prepared by   (JSS), an apex body of Rajputs in  , on Sunday. 

 This revised version, which rejects other known chronicles, will be submitted to the HRD ministry and the state government for adoption as the genuine history of the queen.
 
 This was announced after a day-long discussion by JSS, an organization that claims to consist of descendants of the rulers of Chittorgarh Fort. The organization also cautioned writers and asked them to address the queen as Padmini.
 
 Kan Singh Suwawa, joint secretary, JSS, said that they would fight till the revised version was adopted verbatim in textbooks. "This is our final battle to give Rani   the rightful place in history. Her life has been subjected to the imagination of writers of various periods. The distorted version is responsible for the controversy behind the film ' '," said Suwawa.
 
 For the revised version, around 30 historians (academic and non-academic) have critically analysed the following historical accounts - Chitai Chaitra (1480), Gora Badal Kavit (1510) Padmvat (1540), Gora Badal Charitra (1588), Gora Badal Caupai (1623), Padmavat (1540), Abul Fazal's Ain-e-Akhbari (1550) Muhammad Shah Qasim alias Faristha's Tarikh-e-Farishta, and The Annals and Antiquities of Rajasthan by Colonel James Tod (1829-32), followed by several modern-day historians.
 
 The most popular story, common to all historical texts and featured in NCERT and state textbooks, says that Rawal Ratan Singh was arrested by Alauddin Khilji when the latter visited his fort for a glimpse of Padmini. Another story has it that Padmini, along with cousins Gora and Badal, launched an attack on Khilji's forces and rescued Ratan Singh.
 
 "Several accounts say that the fort was under siege for eight months. Khilji had visited the fort after victory for the first time. He entered the fort riding an elephant to see everything has been destroyed. So, the story of the arrest and battle by Padmini, found in NCERT books, ceases to stand," said  , an Udaipur-based historian who quoted  's book Khazain ul-Futuh at the conference.
 
 The conference also claimed to have put an end to the mystery behind the origins of Rani Padmini. After long discussion on this, JSS members agreed that Padmini came from Pungal area in present-day Jaisalmer. "The oldest source on Padmini can be traced to the book, Tavarik-e-Jaislamer, dating back to the 14th century. It says that Padmini was born in 1285 in a royal family to Rawal Punyapal, who later moved to Sihrar which became Singhal Dweep in later texts such as 'Padmavat' and 'Singoli'," said Lokendra Singh Chundawat, spokesperson of JSS. Padmini was married to Ratan Singh in 1302, he claimed.
 
 
