MUMBAI: The HRD ministry has finally taken cognisance of the ongoing protest at the   (TISS). It has directed the institute to form a committee and submit a report with recommendations by March-end, even as 43 students from the Guwahati campus proceeded on a hunger strike on Monday. Officials have even enquired why the strike started over the   (GOI-PMS) issue has not been called off yet. 

 The directive comes at a time when the institute has doled out partial relief to the protesting students. A ministry official said that they have asked the committee to study the financial crunch faced by TISS, the genuineness of students' demands. It will accordingly recommend solutions for future batches, said the official. The strike is going on for long and the union HRD minister is keen to resolve it, he added. The committee will comprise of a UGC representative, TISS acting director  , nominee from the faculty, students' representatives from all TISS campuses, and alumni too.
 
  Bharat told TOI that the committee has been formed and a notification will be issued soon. "...As part of the new action plan, we have assured the students that the entire money will not be sought from the fresh batch (2018-19) upfront. We are reaching out to corporates and even our alumni to support the students from marginalized sections, but the students need to understand that the institute is taking efforts. Giving fee waivers in advance is not sustainable as the institute has grown a lot over the years," said Bharat. 
 
 The protesting students have written to the institute, asking them to visit the Guwahati campus and meet students who have gone on hunger strike. In Mumbai too, students plan to escalate the protest even against the government and take it to the national level.  , general secretary of the students' union, said that the joint action committee that includes students' leaders from campuses across the country are likely to hold a strong protest in Delhi. The students even met MP Supriya Sule who has assured support to the ongoing strike.
 
 Meanwhile, teachers are worried about the exams that start this week. "If the protest goes on, masters' students who have been placed in jobs will be affected. We usually have their convocation in May, and if the submissions are delayed, we will be unable to process their degrees on time."
 
 
