SINDHANUR: AICC president   on Sunday alleged that the BJP government has waived loans of 1.3lakh crore of a handful of industrialists in the past year, but has been refusing to waive a few thousand crores of loans availed by farmers.

 “When the government waives such huge loans of industrialists, what is holding back PM   from waiving farmers’ loans,”   asked during his half-hour interaction with farmers at   on Sunday evening.
 
 
 Rahul said he had met Modi at his office and requested him to waive farmers’ loans. “Modi did not utter a word. Then I asked CM Siddaramaiah and Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh if they can waive farm loans in their states. Within no time, they did it. Such is the commitment of the   towards farmers,” he said, promising to address all problems farmers faced if his party returnedtopower at theCentre.
 
 Rahul said the Congress
 
 considered farmers as the backbone of the country and the UPA regime did whatever it could to help them. Rahul said it is the duty of a government to help farmers in distress due to natural calamity and recalled the Rs 70,000crore waiver by the UPA under former PM  .
 
 “Farmers are demanding justice, by seeking farm loans waiver and nothing else. Farmers without the help of the government cannot survive and make a decent living,” he said.
 
 Reacting to a demand put forth by a farmer for higher minimum support price (MSP) for agricultural commodities, Rahul Gandhi said farmers are under stress due to the wrong policies and decisions of the Centre. “Modihas deliveredtwo big blows – demonetization and GST -- to the poor and working class of the country. Both measures were to help industrialists. He wants to take money from the the poor and farmers to give to his friends,” he said.
 
 RahulsaidtheMSP of many crops was much higher during the UPA government than what it is today.
 
 ‘Prohibition needs debate’
 
 Rahul Gandhi said he was all for prohibition of liquor in the state and country, but the matter required serious debate.
 
 While CM Siddaramaiah, responding to a woman at the farmers’ interaction in Sindhanur, categorically rejected any demand for total prohibition in the state, Rahul’s statement appeared to suggest that the Congress is not averse to it.
 
 The woman said people of her village were getting addicted to liquor and farms were not getting proper labour. “We don’t want any loan waiver and are sure of making a living. Give us total prohibition on liquor and we will do fine,” said the woman.
 
 To which Siddaramaiah said the idea was a “noble” one but not “practical”. “States like Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and   tried banning liquor, but were forcedto revoke it. Prohibition does not have a lasting effect and only encourages smuggling from neighbouring states,” he justified. Siddaramaiah said if prohibition has to work, the Centre has to invoke a ban.
 
 However, Rahul tried to balance the response and said: “I am in favour of total prohibition, but there needs to be a debate and discussion on the matter.” He also said   had failed to prevent smuggling of liquor from adjoining states.
 
