KOLKATA: The World Bank will fund the environment department’s multipoint real-time air quality monitoring system and the methods to counter pollution. Apart from a few stationary air-quality monitoring devices, around 10 others mounted on government buses will generate area-specific real-time air quality data. This information will be analysed to ascertain the source of the pollution, as well as patterns, which will allow the government to adopt corrective measures, said an official.

 Ideation Technology, the technology partner of Bengal’s transport department, has been entrusted with the job of developing a prototype of ambient air quality assessment devices, which can measure ambient air pollution on the move with the precise longitude and latitude of the place. Each monitoring device will measure sulphur dioxide (SO2), carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrogen oxide (NO2) and particulate matters (PM10 and PM2.5).
 
 
 In fact, in its South Asia Urban Air quality management briefing note 14, World Bank said that very little information is available on sources of fine particulate air pollution. In 2014, the World Bank established a Multi-donor Trust Fund for   and   to promote more systematic and effective responses to deadly air pollutants in selected low-income countries, including China, Egypt, India, Nigeria, South Africa and Vietnam.
 
  
  
 The Bengal PCB has three automatic air-quality monitoring stations, of which only one is working. However, the absence of real-time data is defeating the purpose. In Kolkata, there has been a huge rise in the count of particulate matter, particularly PM2.5 that goes straight to the lung, because of a massive jump in automobile population. .
 
 The air pollution in the city is no longer winter-specific. After winter, when the PM2.5 count should have been low, it stayed five-fold the safe limit of 60µg/m3 . From 9pm on Tuesday to 9am on Wednesday, the PM2.5 never dipped below three times the safe limit.
 
 “We will share the real-time data with the state pollution control board. More than raising an alarm, the purpose is to help the government formulate a strategy to fight the causes of pollution. This requires a multi-point study of pollutants so that area-specific counter measures can be adopted,” said Sanjay Chatterjee, director, Ideation Technology.
 
  
 
 
 
