NEW DELHI:   has reintroduced the option of seeking re-evaluation of answers for this year’s Class XII and X exams. Candidates can apply online for the process, which begins with rechecking of answer sheets, from Friday.

 CBSE had decided to do away with re-evaluation in 2017, which led to some students approaching the Delhi high court. On the court’s intervention, board had allowed re-evaluation on a ‘first come, first serve’ basis.
 
 The board has also made the certificates of all 28 lakh candidates available online on DigiLocker within hours of the result being declared. Safety features on the site will help institutions and employers identify fake certificates.
 
 Seeking re-evaluation is a three step process. The candidate has to first apply for rechecking and then ask for a photocopy of the answer sheet before being eligible for re-evaluation.
 
 Students seeking rechecking can apply and make payments online from June 1 to June 5. Announcing the dates,   secretary Anil Swarup tweeted, “Rechecking/re-evaluation process and details for Classes X and XII CBSE examinations now available on CBSE web portal.”
 
 The process, however, isn’t cheap. For rechecking (which is a recount of marks), an applicant will have to shell out Rs 500 per subject. The cost of getting the photocopy of an answer book is Rs 700 for Class XII and Rs 500 for Class X. For re-evaluation, applicants have to pay Rs 100 per question for both classes.
 
 Students who apply for rechecking will their results by June 14, 2018. Thereafter, they can seek a copy of the answer sheet on June 15 and 16, 2018. The copies will be sent by June 20, 2018, the board said.
 
 Candidates who undergo these two processes can apply for re-evaluation on June 21 and 22. “Re-evaluation will be completed at the earliest,” said Swarup, without giving a last date for the results.
 
 In 2014, CBSE had decided to allow Class XII candidates to not only get a photocopy of their evaluated answer sheets, but also seek re-evaluation instead of just a recount. It started with seven subjects — English, Hindi, physics, chemistry, mathematics, political science and economics — which was later extended to 11 subjects in 2015. Re-evaluation was stopped in 2017.
 
 However, in February 2017, the high court upheld a student’s right to be re-evaluated in all subjects and questions. The court also struck down the board’s selective re-evaluation policy that restricted the option to just 11 subjects and 10 questions per subject.
 
 A bench of then Chief Justice G Rohini and Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal termed CBSE’s decision as “rather eccentric” as it had “first provided the facility of re-evaluation to candidates and, thereafter, put unreasonable restrictions”.
 
 In June 2017, CBSE gave an undertaking in the HC that it would relax its verification scheme to allow students to approach it for scrutiny of answer sheets and that all requests by students would be considered on a ‘first come first serve basis’.
 
 Meanwhile, officials said the board has for the first time made all marksheets, pass and migration certificates available in students’ digital lockers within hours of the declaration of results. These digital documents are digitally signed, DigiLocker verified and also have safety features such as QR codes.
 
 While on one hand the students can get the documents from the issuer (CBSE) online, they can also share digital versions of the verified documents with educational institutions and employers.
 
 According to CBSE officials, already over 5.27 crore Class X and XII CBSE marksheets, pass and migration certificates of more than 2.31 crore students from year 2004 onwards are available in digital format.
 
