CHANDIGARH: A bacterium, Staphylococcus epidermidisthat is present in large numbers on skin of all humans, is so evolved and tolerant in Indian population that its extract can be used to protect people in the   from skin ailments.

 Not only this, the bacterium on the Indian skin has less disease-causing ability as compared to the strain of the bacterium present on the skin of the US population.
 
 
 “This coating (extract) can also be used for Indians who have skin ailments,” Dr  , the lead author of the study published in leading international journal, “Frontiers in Microbiology.”
 
 Patil and his team of research scholars from   ( ), for the first time, have compared the whole genome study of multiple strains of Staphylococcus epidermidisfrom the skin of healthy individuals in India and those in the United States.
 
 They found that the healthy individuals from India harbour a novel strain of the bacterium on their skin that is absent on the skin of healthy individuals in the United States. This strain, named SP691, was identified for the first time in the world by this team.
 
 The same bacterium of the skin is evolving differently in the US and India. When we compared these strains, we found that the bacterium on the skin of the American population has lost the genes for protection against skin ailments, but this gene is found in the strain present on our skin,” said Patil.
 
 The research will soon be applied to derive a probiotic from the Indian skin bacterium that can be made into a coating and used to treat skin ailments of the Americans.
 
 “The antimicrobial compounds released from the secretions of Staphylococcus epidermidis can be used either as a cream or a natural coating for any other country outside India. We have considered the US as there was a reference study readily available,” said Patil.
 
 The five-year study started in 2012 where the scientists collected 28 isolates of the Indian bacterium and compared them with 21 isolates of the North American population.
 
 “It is because of the harsh climatic conditions, that our bacterium are more tolerant and evolved. In contrast, it was also found that in Americans if this epidermis bacterium which has pathogenic genes can easily get inside blood stream and cause sepsis — infection. The same is not present in our skin bacteria,” said Patil.
 
 The institute is planning to soon collaborate with industrial partners to launch the medicine.
 
