CHENNAI: The annual school picnic and trip are passe. Now, students no longer wait for   to arrange outings, instead they plan outings with teachers through   groups. Over the years, teachers have become more friendly and accessible and social media has been a big facilitator. 

 The relationship has become more personal as it is not uncommon today, for students and teachers to be connected through social networking sites like Facebook and Instagram. But this has got the schools divided, some of who are concerned of bias creeping in.
 
 Increased accessibility to cell phones from middle school onwards has also paved the way for teacher-student interactions to go beyond the classroom. It started with the idea of instant information, with doubts or questions being clarified over WhatsApp.
 
 It is in stark contrast with the practice of schools in the US and UK, says Deeksha A, who was recently transferred to a school in the city. 
 
 “Being friends with teachers on social media is a big no. In fact, teachers usually don’t accept friend requests. However, here it is quite common to be connected to faculty members on social media,” said the Class XI, who has studied in both in UK and US. 
 
 “The perception was that the teachers may go easy on students if they know them personally,” she said.
 
 Some school are wary that friendly equations outside school may lead to bias or the institution may be held responsible for any issues beyond school hours. For instance,   authorities felt professional boundaries needed to be maintained and put out a list of dos and don’ts for teachers. 
 
 “It’s common for pupils and teachers to celebrate birthdays together or hang out after school hours. While we accept that friendly equations help them bond, we would want it to be at a healthy level,” said Vishnucharan P, correspondent of the school.
 
 But it’s not just prying into personal lives but a need for healthy discussion that Lalitha, a Class XII student, enjoys hanging out with her peers and a couple of teachers outside school. “We may not get time in school to continue a discussion and so catch up outside. Our parents know of the meetings and trust our teachers,” she said.
 
 Psychologist   says teachers need to be cautious on the messages they send out. “Teachers can be friendly without necessarily being friends,” she said, adding that teachers are often the source of support for students but there needs to be a certain distance. 
 
 In the light of concerns of sexual abuse by teachers, schools and prefer professional attitude from teachers. Since students look up to them guides, the onus si on teachers to set an example of a healthy relationship.
 
 Schools also need to strike a fine balance in not imposing too many rules regarding such equations. It would be better to have open discussions with teachers on these issues, she added.
 
 
