HYDERABAD: While chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is aiming to make a mark in national politics, his friend-turned-bete noire M Kodandaram of the   ( ) is preparing the ground here in   to oust the ruling TRS from power. 

 The TJAC along with CPI leader Chada   and other Left-oriented parties and its cadre is all set to resurrect the spirit of Million March seven years after it was held as part of Telangana statehood agitation. Held on March 10, 2011, the march had shaken the united AP government.
 
 TJAC is organising 'aata-paata' (dance and singing) programme with about 5,000 people near the statue of Makhdoom Mohiuddin on Tank Bund on the Million March anniversary. TJAC's efforts to bring anti-KCR forces together in Telangana will be revitalised after the launch of its new political party 'Telangana Jana Samithi'(most likely). The TJAC is likely to advertise in newspapers within a week seeking objections if any against the name of its political party TJS and launch the party early next month, sources said.
 
 When contacted, TJAC official spokesperson G Venkat Reddy confirmed to TOI that police permission is being awaited to revive the memories of Million March on March 10. When asked about the efforts of TJAC to bring all anti-KCR forces on one platform, Venkat Reddy said everything would unfold in a few days from now. 
 
 Telangana Pradesh   Committee general secretary Dasoju Sravan was more direct and said discussions are already going on with the TJAC on collaboration. "The Congress being a national party, we feel it is our responsibility as an elder brother to ensure that Telangana-people get rid of the dictatorial rule of KCR. It is the Congress which had given statehood to the people of Telangana. Unfortunately, their aspirations have not been fulfilled. Congress will do it and would welcome all anti-KCR forces to join hands with it to free Telangana and its people from the family rule of KCR," he said.
 
 Dasoju also said that it is time for Kodandaram to assert himself. If there are two parties who have the responsibility to free the state from the clutches of KCR-family rule, one is Congress and another is Prof Kodandaram, he added.
 
 
