PANAJI: The chief minister  , who holds the mining portfolio, on Friday said 174 mining leases in the state would be auctioned in 2020 subject to Supreme Court judgment on abolition of the   and the cap on iron ore extraction. 

 The mining companies’   on 60 grade iron ore was also discussed with Union mines minister  , he said. 
 
 The Centre’s decision to abolish mining concession rights and change it to leases in 1987 has been challenged in the Supreme Court by the mine owners.
 
 Parrikar said, he had told Tomar that to auction leases, the Centre should come up with a legislation to increase the cap on iron ore extraction as the present cap of 20 million tonne is too low for the 89 mining leases in the state.
 
 “If the Supreme Court case is decided as per the 1987 Act, then 174 mining leases will expire in 2020, if the decision goes for prospective abolition then it will end in 2037,” he said. Also many of these 174 mining leases come under wildlife, forest and lot of other restrictions, the CM told reporters.
 
 Referring to the cap on ore extraction, Parrikar said how you will attract people when you cannot extract more than 20 million tonne per annum. “All these aspects should be taken into consideration before a decision on auctioning is taken,” he said.
 
 Asked about incentives for iron ore industry so that ore is not exported, Parrikar said most of the ore from Goa is exported. “I don’t think Goans need a steel plant,” Parrikar said. A steel plant requires a lot of coal and limestone for manufacturing, he said. And added that Goan iron ore grade is very low for the steel industry and cost to transport iron ore to nearest steel plant is double, then it’s better to export it to China.
 
 “No one wants the ore, accept a small quantity which is above 62 grade for local consumption. Otherwise it is waste, it cannot be used, so even while I love to have everything in the state itself, these are the circumstances under which Goan ore needs to be exported,” he said.
 
 
