SHIMLA/MANALI/DHARAMSHALA: The bandh call given by Dalit organizations had mixed response in Himachal Pradesh. In Shimla, the bandh was effective as majority of the shops remained close during the morning hours even as roads were blocked by protesters for a few hours. But in Dharamshala and Kangra, there was mixed response as majority of the shops remained open. But the bus services were hit at these places. In Manali, there was no impact of the bandh.

 In Shimla, all shops in Lower Bazar and the Mall remained close in the morning hour, but in Subzi Mandi, shops were open. Seeing this, protesters got agitated and they started forcibly shutting these down. Protesters had a minor scuffle with shopkeepers and the former even threw out some of their goods. Following this, shopkeepers at   maintained that they had no information about the bandh.
 
 Earlier, at around 10am, protesters blocked the busy Cart Road in Shimla and people heading towards offices and children going to schools had to face problem with the suspension of vehicular movement. In Kullu-Manali the bandh call failed to make any impact as all shops remained open for the whole day. However, members of the   took out a   march in Kullu. Sangh president in   said that they had given a memorandum to the deputy commissioner to protest against Supreme Court’s decision to amend the SC/ST Act. 
 
 On social media, people were forwarding messages to not support the bandh in the interest of general category. In Kangra district, the bandh affected the inter-state services of the   (HRTC). The buses were stopped at the state borders due to the bandh. However, majority of shops remained open.
 
 Regional Manager, HPRTC, Dharamshala, Pankaj Chada said that all buses plying on the Chandigarh route were stopped at Una, on Hoshiarpur-Jalandhar route at Gagret in Una district and on the Amritsar route at Pathankot. Many people and tourists who wanted to move in or out of state were stranded at the said stations. Many of them cancelled their journey and extended their stay in Kangra.
 
 
