PATNA: Fasting, processions and special prayer services marked   in the city. 

 Hundreds of devotees thronged Bishop House Church on Ashok Rajpath, Padri-ki-haveli in Patna City, Queen of the Apostle’s Church in Kurji and St John’s Church in Kankerbagh.
 
 Enactment of Way of the   ( ) was also held at many churches which reverberated with hymns like ‘Jo Krus Pe Kurbaan Hai’, ‘Wah Pak Mastak’, ‘Masiha Hai’, Punay Shukruwar’ and ‘Har Zakhma Jo Uska Hai’. On Ashok Rajpath, the Way of the Cross was taken out from St Joseph’s Convent Girl’s High School campus to Bishop House Church. Patna Archbishop William D’Souza gave the message of peace, love and humanity.
 
 The enactment of the 14 Stations of the Cross by members of the church commemorates the last journey of Christ when he was being taken to be crucified. It was followed by veneration of the Cross with chants and Holy Communion on Friday evening.
 
 During the special Good Friday services in churches, priests dressed in white vestments recalled the supreme sacrifice of Jesus Christ for the sins and follies of the world. Tears rolled down from devotees’ eyes while the story of Christ’s last day on earth was narrated. At few churches, Good Friday services ended with the church bell ringing 33 times for each year of the Lord’s earthly life.
 
 The rest of the day was spent in reflection, prayer and fasting. Many devotees observed fast for the whole day, while some excluded meat from their diet. 
 
 Parish priest of Padri-ki-haveli, Fr Suresh Xaxa OFM said, “The Lord’s death is ‘good’ because the ultimate sacrifice of Jesus Christ’s life resulted in the saving of mankind from God’s wrath and the forgiveness of everyone’s sins.”
 
 Andy Osta, a devotee said, “It is a day to mourn the death of Jesus Christ. We usually speak in low voices in the house and no celebration of any kind is held till the resurrection of Christ on Easter Sunday.”
 
 Another devotee Abhishek Patrick said after a two-day fast on Friday and Saturday, the celebrations of Easter Sunday would begin with Easter Vigil from Saturday midnight. 
 
 “On Easter Sunday, we prepare chocolate eggs at home and non-vegetarian food. It’s a celebration of the hope we have in Christ. On this occasion, sweets and food items are distributed among the poor,” he said.
 
 
