CHENNAI:   ( ) has started demolishing the old domestic terminal located between the new domestic and international terminals at Chennai  . The work will be completed in63372326three months. 

 This is the first step of starting the Rs 2,000 crore phase 2 expansion of the Chennai airport which is expected to last for the next three years. A series of works is included in the new phase of expansion. These include: demolishing the old terminal   and constructing a new integrated terminal on its place, building of multi-level car park, straightening of taxiway, building a few new rapid exit taxiway and others. The authorities will also complete the ongoing work to build a walkalator inside a tube linking the terminals with the airport metro rail station. 
 
 A senior official said that the old domestic terminal is being demolished by a company based on a contract. "The work is expected to be completed in three months. A new contract for building a new terminal will be finalised by the time the plot is ready. Pulling down a building at a working airport is a challenge; it has to be done without hampering flight operations." 
 
 He also said that the work was being carried out after discussions with the airlines and other airport stakeholders.
 
 The company which bagged the contract based on their expertise in the field inspected the site and has assessed the risks involved. The work has begun after the study. Precaution has to be taken to prevent movement of earthmovers and trucks from inconveniencing the passengers, while steps need to be taken to prevent spread of dust from debris during the work. 
 
 The old domestic terminal is being pulled down because it does not have enough space and the design of the building is not in sync with the modern steel and glass domestic and international terminals which were commissioned in 2013. The integrated terminal that will be built in its place will have a peak hour capacity of an additional 1,000 domestic and 4,800 international passengers than what is being handled now. The international terminal will get more space for passengers as peak hour footfall is expected to be at least 7,000. AAI has already started work to straighten the taxiway that runs in front of a cargo terminal so aircraft taking off can reach the runway quicker.
 
 The expansion of the airport is aimed at boosting the passenger capacity to 30 million passengers. 
 
 
