BIJNOR: Five months after four horses and one mule in   district were put to sleep after they were diagnosed with the dreaded Glanders Persian disease, the health department has begun to conduct tests among local people who came in contact with the ailing animals to see if they have been infected. 
 
 Glanders is an infectious disease caused by the Burkholderia malle bacterium, and spreads by ingestion of contaminated feed or water by animals. Humans who come in contact with the affected animals can also get this disease. There is no known treatment or vaccine for glanders, which affects equines the most.
 
  Now, blood samples of the caretakers of the affected animals as well as their neighbours are being collected for tests to see if they have contracted the disease.
 
  The action is being taken after director of communicable diseases, UP, wrote to the chief medical officer of Bijnor. The letter said, “The disease can harm people, including lab test staff and veterinary doctors who were in contact with the infected animals. Blood samples of these people are to be taken as well.”
 
  In his letter, director of communicable diseases Dr Mithilesh Chaturvedi said, “Several cases of Glanders Persian have been detected not only in Delhi but also in the neighbouring states of UP and Haryana. National Disease Control Centre, Delhi, had already sounded the alert on August 28, 2017 in this connection.”
 
  Chief veterinary officer (CVO)   confirmed that the blood samples were being collected. “We have sent around 300 blood samples of horses in the district for testing. So far, four horses and a mule have been found positive for the disease. All these have been put down to prevent glanders from spreading to other equines. The glanders-affected horses were found in Rahatpur Khurd of   area,   village of   and Shahnagar of Haldaur area,” he said. The government pays compensation between Rs 16,000 and Rs 25,000 to the owners of the animals put down.
 
  Singh added, “We have banned the entry of horses from other districts to Bijnor.”
  
  Way back in 2011, five horses were diagnosed with this disease in   area of Bijnor district and were put down. Since then, the animal husbandry department has been running a drive to make horse owners aware about the disease.
 
  The CVO explained that since there is no known treatment or vaccine for the disease, an animal that tests positive is put to sleep to prevent the disease from spreading. It is a fatal disease. According to officials, the disease is characterised by serial development of ulcerating nodules that are most commonly found in the upper respiratory tract, lungs and skin.
