PATNA: Two MBA students of Lalit Narayan Mishra Institute of Economic Development and Social Change – Sanjiv Jha and Neha Jha – have bagged highest package of Rs 6.5 lakh per annum each in the ongoing campus selection drive at the institution. “Several companies have made a beeline for LNMI with placement offers this year,” incharge of the placement cell if the institute Chetna Priti said.

 “Apart from regular recruiters like ITC,  , Karvy, V-Mart Retail, HDFC and Prism Cement, several first time recruiters are also offering good positions to the students. BBA, BCA and MCA students have also got job offers from ICICI Prudential, Concentrix, Teqforce and IndiGo Airlines,” she added.
 
 Priti said the current batches went for summer internship in reputed IT companies with stipends ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 15,000 per month.
 
 Director of the institute Dr N Vijyalakshmi has expressed happiness with the ongoing placement drive.
 
 Quantum computing: Former director of NIT-Arunachal Pradesh C T Bhunia on Thursday explained how quantum computing takes advantage of the strange ability of subatomic particles to exist in more than one state at any time. Addressing a seminar on ‘Quantum computing’, organised by the department of computer science and engineering, Birla Institute of Technology-Mesra, Patna, Bhunia said, “Due to the way the tiniest of particles behave, operations can be done much more quickly with the use of less energy than classical computers,” he said.
 
 BIT-Mesra director B K Singh presented a memento to Bhunia. Students and faculty members were also present.
 
 Moot court contest: Vishal Kumar Singh, Amar Vivek and Abhishek Raj of School of Law of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) won the sixth Mahamana Moot Court Competition held at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) in Varanasi from April 7 to 8. CUSB assistant professor Digvijay Singh said the faculty of law of BHU organize the mooting competition every year in the memory of its founder Madan Mohan Malviya. More than 24 universities from across the country participated in the competition this year.
 
 In quarter final, CUSB team defeated IP University, New Delhi while in semifinal, it defeated the team of Shambhunath Law College, Allahabad. The team defeated KIIT Law School, Bhubaneshwar, in the final.
 
 CUSB workshop: Vice-chancellor of Nalanda Open University R K Sinha on Thursday exhorted teachers to go for research to enhance their knowledge. Addressing the valedictory session of the three-day regional workshop on ‘Research-based pedagogical tools’, organised by the Centre for Biological Sciences (CBS) of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) on Thursday, Sinha said for efficient teaching at higher levels, especially in colleges and universities, teachers should put emphasis on research and innovation.
 
 “Studying books and giving lectures based on the information gathered from books is mere fulfilment of teaching job. Those who are really enthusiastic about doing efficient teaching, regular upgradation is must. It can be achieved through research only,” Sinha said. More than 100 teachers attended the workshop.
 
 IGIMS conference: Nursing students were briefed about biomedical waste management, needlestick injury and multi-drug resistant bacteria on the concluding day of the two-day state-level conference on ‘Hospital infection control’, organised by College of Nursing of Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Science (IGIMS) here on Thursday.
 
 Guest of honour Dr Subrata Sarkar, former principal of College of Nursing, R G Kar Medical College and Hospital, Kolkata, stressed on management of multi-drug resistant bacteria. She talked about awareness in terms of preventive management to control bacterial growth as well as resistant pathogenic organisms, which can be lurking in hospital, wards, corridors and even operation theatre. “Ignoring and being callous results in self-infection by the patients or cross-infection by the other patients or from members of staff,” she said.
 
 Associate professor of the host college Dr Rupashree Dasgupta talked about needlestick injury. She informed nursing students about needle handling and its disposal. Stressing on infections at hospitals, she said, “Infection can even be life threatening. It should be curbed at the grassroots level by taking precautions.”
 
 The conference was inaugurated on Wednesday by state’s principal secretary (health) Sanjay Kumar. He asked the hospital management to adopt measures like personal protection equipment for hospital infection control. Additional medical superintendent of Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi, talked about specific disposal and treatment of bio-medical waste. IGIMS director Dr N R Biswas and faculty members were also present. Altogether 214 nursing students attended the two-day conference.
 
 
