NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday said the buyer of 76% government holding in   ( ) will enjoy benefits of bilateral rights and slots at all airports that the national carrier currently enjoys, while extending the deadline for submission of expression of interest (EoI) by a fortnight to May 31. 

 
 Replying to 160 queries raised by potential buyers, the government also clarified that individuals will not be eligible to bid but indicated that bidders may be given flexibility to change consortium partners until the submission of financial bids. While promising complete freedom in managing the airline, the government also said that the code share arrangements can also be reworked. The statement, meant to comfort those having interest in AI, also made it clear that the government will only be present as a minority shareholder, given that a 24% stake does not give it veto powers. 
 
 Most interested players, as well as a large section in the government, are keen that the Centre has only a limited role in operations of the company. What may provide further comfort is that ESOPs will be part of the 24% government holding. The government, however, said it will not provide guarantees to AI after disinvestment. The debt-laden airline has managed to access cheaper funding, and also finance aircraft acquisition, based on sovereign guarantee. 
 
 But, strong finances of the new owners may help the airline get an attractive deal from banks. While bidders are barred from selling AI shares or ceding management control for a stipulated period, the “lock-in” restriction does not rule out fresh issue of capital. Detailed terms for fund-raising will be provided in subsequent phase, the clarifications released in the nature of questions and answers said. 
 
 AI will also be allowed to acquire other airlines. Although several Indian carriers have so far maintained that they are not interested in bidding for AI, sources said the long list of queries indicates that there was a lot of interest in the airline although the government did not respond to nearly half the questions. Asked about the extension in deadline, the sources said there were several holidays since the document was first released in March-end, both in India and abroad, and the extension was based on request from “interested parties”. 
 
 To a query related to staff, the government said, “Employee concerns are being suitably addressed.” While noting that currently there is no VRS (voluntary retirement scheme) for AI, the government said employees are eligible for gratuity on completion of five years of service or more and the same is capped at Rs 20 lakh. The divestment includes profit-making   and AISATS, an equal joint venture between the national carrier and Singapore-based SATS.
 
