City’s   has become a must-visit spot for Vizagites this season; thanks to this bunch of adorable inmates. 

  Summer is the time when Indira Gandhi Zoological Park plays host to hordes of visitors looking for some respite from the scorching heat amidst nature. From families, nature enthusiasts to couples looking for a little privacy, the zoo recorded a staggering footfall this season. Declared open to public on May 19, 1977, mana zoo has remained one of Vizag’s most loved tourist attractions for the last 41 years. Today, there are 77 enclosures in the zoo housing a number of inmates that have become the cynosure of all eyes.   Times raises a toast to the current star attractions of the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park this season that are causing quite a stir among visitors:
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  These long-legged beauties are usually seen chomping on the tree leaves in their enclosure or staring down at visitors who come close to them. Cucumber, watermelon and carrots are what these giraffes get to keep cool off in the summer heat.
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  Padma is a beautiful lady, but today is fighting for attention, thanks to her yet-to-be-named 9-month-old calf. The male calf’s first public appearance was nothing short of a celebration at the zoo and it stole the hearts of visitors in no time. The calf’s favourite thing to do is to cuddle with his mother and peep at the visitors while hiding behind her.
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  Feasting on a diet consisting of cucumber and watermelons, these chimps are fed at least 2 to 3 coconuts per day to beat the heat. However, unlike the tigers, they aren’t given any water to play due to the fear of getting infected. After grabbing headlines in 2017 when Chikita and her now deceased brother, Chiko escaped from their enclosure, they have been a hit ever since.
 
  
 
 
  The 21-year-old male  , Chiko at the park passed away on April 25, 2018 due to cardiac failure. The naughty chimp and his sister Chikita gained fame when they escaped crossing the 20-foot high wall of their kraal enclosure in 2017 giving the zoo authorities a hard time capturing the siblings.
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  Docile, friendly and always in a cheery mood, these elephants are a delight to watch when minding their business. The jumbos greet guests by waving their massive trunks whenever their keepers ask them to. Most of the time one will find them munching on sugarcanes.
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  Because it is summer, sprinklers have been installed to keep the tigers cool in their enclosures. Their favourite thing to do is to wander in and out of the night houses.They allow the visitors a glance of their exquisite beauty once in a while and spend most of their time playing in the water put out for them. These “ivory beauties” have always been a huge draw for visitors.
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
    zoo is the only zoo in South India that houses a single-horned rhino. Unlike the double-horned African rhinos, this rhino is usually found in the jungles of Assam.However, when aged or captured, Assam donates them to zoos across India, which is why Nakul is a major attraction here.
 
 The best time to visit the zoo is between 9:30 to 11 am and 3 to 5 in the afternoon because during those times the animals well-fed and rested. If the carnivore section is what attracts you, it is best to visit in the evening because they’re habitually night animals and like to rest during the day. The zoo also boasts of many attractions such as the sole lioness, sloth bears, sambar deers, black bucks, small cats, African cheetah, butterfly park and more. While all herbivores are fed a water-heavy diet consisting of carrots, watermelons, leafy vegetables during the summers, the carnivores are fed a steady diet of chicken, milk, egg and beef, apart from doses of glucose.
 
  Another especiality of the zoo is that old inmates are taken to a rescue centre by the zoo authorities. Though the number of animals at the rescue centre today has shrunk, there are still 8 lions and 3 tigers that are aging away gracefully.
 
