BENGALURU: The letter dispatched by   (CEO)   to   by Tuesday afternoon categorically said that no   can be transferred till the summary revision and draft electoral roll is finalized, as they are returning officers for their districts.

 Following this, the chief secretary asked the officers who got the marching orders on Monday — Hassan deputy commissioner Rohini Sindhuri Dasari and Haveri and Ramanagara DCs — to stay put in their headquarters.
 
 “It is a clear guideline by the Election Commission of India (ECI) that no transfer shall take place during revision of the summary electoral roll. The timing of the transfers clashes with the revision, so the CEO has written to the government citing guidelines,” said an EC source. The process of verifying the revised summary voters’ list is scheduled to end by February 19.
 
 Accordingly, all transfers made on January 22 remain invalid. The retraction of the order is an embarrassment to Siddaramaiah and the Congress, which defended Dasari’s transfer as an administrative decision.
 
 When the media questioned Sindhuri’s transfer when the Mahamastabhishekha is a week away, Siddaramaiah said: “It was a routine administrative transfer. I was not under pressure from any minister. Allegations of gender discrimination are not true because we have woman DCs in Kolar and Mandya. We transferred Sindhuri purely for administrative reasons.’’
 
 Soon after this, Ratnaprabha is reported to have called up IAS officers who had been issued transfer orders, asking whether they had reported at their new postings, and to do so immediately. By late evening, there was a message to all these officers: “Go back to your old postings, if taken charge of the new one.”
 
 At a press meet, former PM Deve Gowda said: “It is, indeed, a shame that the minister wants a percentage from even this holy event. The IAS officer was shunted out of the district because she did not allow misappropriation from funds. They (Congress government) have no shame,” he said.
 
 
