GURUGRAM: The 65-acre land in Sehrawan where the Kherki Daula   is proposed to be shifted is forest area and a  , according to a reply by the forest department to an   query filed by the former sarpanch of Manesar. 

 Ram Avtar Yadav filed the RTI query on January 30 and the forest department reply received on February 7 clearly states the land is a “natural conservation zone”. Yadav said, “The area has a good presence of wildlife, including a leopard family, hyenas, jackals, deers, lizards and snakes, nilgai, porcupines etc. All this has been clearly mentioned in the 2012 wildlife Census report of Aravalis. The toll plaza and commercial activity around it will disturb and end the movement of leopards and other wild animals from north to south (and vice-versa) in this area. There have already been three reported leopard deaths in the recent past due to vehicular movement through the Aravalis.”
 
 However, Deepak Nanda, district forest officer (territorial), said, “I can’t comment on this. I will have to look into the RTI files.” 
 
 The local residents said that any person visiting Manesar could see that the land was a forest area. “There is an old check dam and two water bodies in this area which are frequently visited by wild animals and also by cattle for water. The forest also serves as a natural air purifier for us when we are facing severe air pollution crisis in Gurugram,” said Vivek Kamboj, environmentalist.
 
 Environmentalists claimed the stretch, including the 65 acres proposed for the toll plaza, was important for wildlife. Vaishali Rana Chandra, forest conservationist, said, “The wildlife area stretches for 1,500 acres of Aravalis and the toll plaza and commercial complex at Sehrawan will fragment this area, cutting off a portion of it from the rest of the forested mountain range. The thick forest area starts from Manesar and goes till Sariska. The NH-8 cuts through this area and is already interrupting the wildlife corridor. The government needs to step in and a wildlife corridor needs to be built on NH-8 to ensure free passage of animals, irrespective of whether the toll plaza is built here or not.” 
 
 
