CHARMINAR: Despite the availability of   in the city, several   are often spotted sleeping on pavements and are vulnerable to accidents and crime.

 Every night, 30-40 people sleep on pavements on Bajarghat; similar situation prevails at Charminar, Pathergatti, Bahadurpura and other places. There are 15 night shelters within city limits, most of them are unaware of the facility.
 
 Tauseef, a cleaner in one of the restaurants near Charminar says, “I have been staying on the footpath with my younger brother for four months now. The entire area including the local police knows that we have been sleeping here every night. They never informed us about night shelters,” he said.
 
 While, Tauseef was unaware of the facility, a family of six including a couple, three infant children and their blind grandmother have been living in   on the sidelines of a busy road at Bajarghat for the past six months.
 
 When asked if they knew about the night shelters that have been set up by the government, Khaisar, who works as a scrap worker to support the family says, “We never knew about the facility. I earn Rs 300 per day but most of the money goes in buying food for us and the children”.
 
 Khaisar’s mother-in-law, who lost her sight due to old age explains that they lost all their money after her son’s death a year ago, and they have been living on the streets since then.
 
 However, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials say that there are posters at certain bus stops and also have their team go and identify the homeless every now and then. “Our officials go on rounds every two days in a week at least to identify the homeless, enquire and bring them to the shelter,” Krishna Chaitanya, GHMC   said.
 
 When informed about the family of six with three infants at Bajarghat, he said that he will send his team and see that they are shifted to the shelter at the earliest.
 
 As of now, the GHMC operates 15 night shelters in Hyderabad city including one at Charminar. But out of these 15 shelters, six are for women but none for families. “There are no shelters particularly for families but we can still try and accommodate them in certain shelters if there is a necessity,” Chaitanya said.
 
