JAIPUR: As   and   have failed to appear before the   on Monday in connection with the   relating to their alleged   against Dalits, the police have now asked them to appear without fail on January 22.

 Besides, film trade analyst Komal Nahata has also been summoned in this case.
 
 The actors were booked for allegedly using a word to discribe a particular caste in a derogatory way and hurting the sentiments of the Valmiki community during the promotion of Khan's recent movie.
 
 Salman had used the word while referring to his dancing skills. Shilpa had reportedly used the word to describe how she looks at home.
 
 Churu police after lodging an FIR against Khan and Kundra almost a month ago had summoned both the actors and had asked them to appear before the deputy superintendent of police rank officer on January 15. However, when actors through counsel asked police for another date of appearance as January 22, the police have asked them to comply with the date. 
 
 Churu police had registered a case under appropriate sections of SC/ST Act and Section 153-A (disturbing communal harmony between two communities) against Khan and Kundra while both had allegedly made derogatory remarks against Dalits. FIR in this connection was lodged at the Churu Kotwali police station by Ashok Chouhan almost a month ago when people of Valmiki Samaj had also vandalised various cinema halls screening Salman Khan’s film Tiger Zinda Hai. 
 
 “We had summoned them almost a week ago and had asked them to appear at my office on January 15. However, their counsel through written application sought some time and asked if they can be allowed to appear on January 22 or January 29. We have told them that they will have to appear on January 22 as we can’t give them further dates,” said Hukum Singh, deputy superintendent of police, Churu while talking to TOI on Monday. 
 
 Apart from the two actors, police have also summoned Komal Nahata, a film trade analyst, who too had interviewed Salman Khan on the subject and asked him to give his version on his derogatory remark. 
 
 “They have been summoned as a part of investigation,” said Singh. As a matter of practice, the cases relating to SC/ST Act are investigated by deputy superintendent of police rank officer.
 
 
