AMBALA: A 13-year-old girl who got pregnant because her maternal uncle raped her repeatedly over the past six months, is going to be shifted to her native state,  , as the   (CWC) here has been able to trace her family.

 The girl is under treatment at the Ambala civil hospital. CWC member   said on Saturday that they had been able to trace the family of the rape survivor after a “lot of hardships”. “Hopefully, she will get to meet them soon,” Mathur said. “We have informed the child commission in West Bengal about us shifting the girl. They will now oversee her care.”
 
 She, however, did give an exact day of when and how the girl would be shifted.
 
 CWC took the girl in its custody on March 22, after a neighbour came to know that she was at least 20 weeks pregnant. In the FIR registered on the same day, police had booked the uncle, and named her aunt and a doctor, who checked her and found her to be pregnant but did not inform the police, in the case.
 
 The uncle was arrested on the same day. 
 
 The rape survivor’s maternal grandmother had left her in the care of the aunt nearly a year ago, as her father had died and her mother had not been able to take care of the teenager. 
 
 The girl, who hardly speaks Hindi and is not enrolled in a school, used to stay back home and her uncle first started molesting her, it has been alleged. Emboldened with the girl not raising the alarm, he started raping her, states the FIR.
 
 The case first came to light when the girl had complained of a stomach ache and a doctor had informed her and her aunt that she was pregnant. Though her aunt did not do anything, the teenager informed a neighbour, who then informed the police. 
 
 The girl is also undergoing treatment for anaemia and mental trauma at the civic hospital. Earlier, following a medical examination at the hospital, it was found that the girl was 24 weeks pregnant. 
 
 Though she had wished to have an abortion, a panel of doctors in Ambala had refused to do so, saying that it was too dangerous for her life and in violation of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act.
 
 Ambala chief medical officer ( ) Dr   said the girl would remain under treatment for three-four days. “She is refusing to eat as she is in mental trauma. She wants to abort the foetus, but we are helpless. We have now changed her diet and started giving her whatever she likes to eat,” he said.
 
 
