KOLKATA:   Sarani (JLS) now flows with the tide. The arterial road, which runs parallel to Diamond Harbour Road (DHR) from Taratala to Joka, has been made one-way — the first in the city’s added areas to have traffic movement synced with the waters of the Hooghly, making traffic smoother by taking a substantial load off DHR.

  
 The city’s traffic police, though, feel there are some teething issues that need to be resolved in order to further ease traffic.
 
 Ongoing work of   (KEIP) on JLS, a Metro viaduct construction along DHR and its concreting had been leaving both roads choked throughout the day. “During peak hours, it became a nightmare for traffic personnel to facilitate easy dispersal,” said a senior traffic officer. “Since both roads were getting choked, we decided to segregate the up and down traffic and channel the peak directional traffic along JLS to make its dispersal faster,” he added.
 
 Since JLS has already been re-laid with a better surface and there is hardly any encroachment other than the KEIP project, the city police decided to channel only peak-directional traffic along this road. This is why from 10pm to 1pm, the workplace-bound peak directional traffic moves from south to north (Joka to Taratala); similarly, from 1pm to 10pm, the home-bound peak direction traffic moves north to south (Taratala to Joka), an officer explained.
 
 The tidal movement allows the bulk of traffic to disperse faster, since both flanks are now being used for one-directional traffic. “But motorists, who are not used to this ‘tidal’ one-way movement, have been often moving in the opposite direction. This is why we need to put up blocks on the flank to ensure one-way traffic movement. However, such blocks are hindrances for peak-directional traffic. Thus, we are often forced to allow both-way traffic between Behala Chowrasta and Choddo Number (14 no.),” said an officer of James Long Sarani Traffic Guard.
 
 KEIP’s underground work has created major blocks at three points on JLS — near  , near Behala Sakher Bazar and near Thakurpukur. Since these are long-term issues, traffic personnel have been posted to guide motirists.
 
 There are other issues as well. Approaching JLS from DHR often becomes nightmarish. The roads connecting DHR and JLS are not wide enough for smooth movement of buses and trucks. “If you don’t access JLS at Taratala in the north or Joka in the south, it is often very difficult to change your track because of congested and narrow connectors. Moreover, there is a gap between the surface levels. Because of the concreting, the level of DHR has risen more than its connecting roads, which is again a problem.
 
 
 
 
  
 
