TRICHY: Two months after the   along with the district administration took up the initiative to enforce the ban on circulating plastic carry bags less than 50 microns in thickness, about 70 per cent of the traders in the city have switched to  , said the civic body. 

 Though major shops and departmental stores are promoting the use of environment friendly bags, a similar awareness drive is yet to pick up among street vendors, particularly flower and fruit sellers.
 
 The central government a couple of years back had notified the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, which banned plastic bags below 50 microns. The   in August 2016 implemented the rule but owing to poor enforcement and awareness, plastic litters kept piling up on roads and in water bodies each day. 
 
 The district administration had set January 25, 2018, as the deadline for the traders in the city to stop use of banned plastic carry bags. 
 
 Since then, corporation sources said, around 10,000 kg of banned plastic carry bags have been seized across the four zones in the civic body. 
 
 Following seizures and imposition of Rs 10,000 as penalty, a majority of the traders, reportedly at least 70 per cent, in the city limits have been providing cloth bags as an alternative.
 
 “The need for environment friendly cloth bags from traders has surged by 40 per cent compared to the demand we received a two months back. 
 
 “Plain non-woven fabric material remains the preferred type of cloth bag among traders while some traders even seek colourful printed variants,” said  , a private cloth bag dealer. 
 
 As traders bear the cost of cloth bag by themselves, some traders have been charging customers Rs 1 to Rs 5 per bag. 
 
 While established shops have already abandoned the use of plastic carry bags, few traders refuse to acknowledge the harms they circulate. Street vendors, mostly flower sellers, still continue to circulate banned plastic carry bags. 
 
 “Sanitary officials have been instructed to seize banned plastic carry bags from each zone every week. We have been targeting the godowns where plastic carry bags are stocked and distributed to traders,” said N Ravichandran, corporation commissioner. Traders from   road that from traders spoke to cited that customers still seek for carry bags and argued for similar behavioural change from citizens.
 
 
