LUCKNOW: Bahujan Samaj Party’s decision to 
  in Gorakhpur and Phulpur bypolls may have fallen short of the two parties announcing a  , but it has brought an end to the 23-year enmity between the two  . The truce was a result of six days of   between the two political banners, involving not only the top leadership but the workers at the grassroots level as well.

  
  
 “It all started on February 27 when SP MP Ram Gopal Yadav, party’s key strategist, took up the issue with BSP national general secretary Satish Chandra Misra,” said a senior SP leader. The two sides discussed the possibilities of a truce. After a “go ahead” from BSP chief Mayawati and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, the next round of talks focused on the modalities of support in detail.
 
  
  
 
 In the second round of talks, the two sides agreed to help each other in the upcoming Rajya Sabha and legislative council polls. It was decided that while SP will help BSP to secure a seat in Rajya Sabha, the latter will reciprocate with a similar bonhomie in the elections for the legislative council to be held in quick succession.
 
 With SP president Akhilesh Yadav having publically declared his willingness to join hands with BSP since 2017 UP assembly elections, the ball was mainly in Mayawati’s court to take a final call on any type of 
  . In the BSP camp, the issue came up during Mayawati’s meeting with the party’s regional coordinators on March 1where she directed them to take feedback from the cadres at the ground level about a possible association with the SP.
 
 Meanwhile, Akhilesh Yadav deputed his Man Friday, MLC Udaiveer Singh, to get in touch with the party workers at the grassroots level to feel the pulse on the outcome of the political banners coming together and also talk to the BSP cadres in Gorakhpur and Phulpur for a first hand assessment of the situation on ground zero. The SP wanted to be sure that any such truce with BSP will pay dividend that could help the party consolidate its position in the bypolls in a noticeable manner.
 
 The exercise that started on Thursday evening, saw several round of meetings between the two sides in Gorakhpur and Phulpur that continued till Saturday evening. It was only after a positive feedback from the ground level that Mayawati asked her party coordinators to announce support to the two SP candidates. Though reports of a tie-up between the two started doing the rounds from Saturday evening, the two parties decided to make the alignment public at the meetings of local leaders in the two constituencies.
 
 “Our task was to meet the party workers at the ground level and gauge the mood of the electorate as well as the BSP cadres, both in Phulpur as well as Gorakhpur. We have a positive response and are pretty confident that this historical move will leave a lasting impression on UP politics,” Udaiveer told TOI.
 
 
