GURUGRAM: Every   in the state must have a   for checking vehicular pollution on its premises — the state government has said in a recent order, bringing focus back on   ones that run on mobile vans and cycle rickshaws in Gurugram and other parts of Haryana, undermining their very purpose.

 Following the order issued on January 25, TOI went on a reality check on Monday and found at least 10 illegal pollution checking centres or ‘pollution under control’ ( ) centres operating in the city’s prominent localities, including Golf Course Road, Rajiv Chowk, near Guru Dronacharya Metro station, Gurugram-Faridabad Road, Gurugram bus stand, Jharsa Road, Sector 4-7 Chowk and sectors 43, 51 and 56. All of them are running on mobile vans or cycle rickshaws.
 
 There are only 138 authorised PUCs in the district, as against over 250 petrol pumps. Again, all these PUCs are not located at the petrol pumps.
 
 A PUC should have a cabin (with minimum 2.5m length, 2m width and 2m height) for placing the analyser and computer hardware. The cabin shall be appropriately designed to protect the system from heat, direct sunlight and rain, and should have proper ventilation. But, those illegal mobile centres don’t meet these norms.
 
 Moreover, a PUC operator should be a motor mechanic/auto mechanic/scooter mechanic/diesel mechanic from an ITI or have an equivalent qualification. However, these mobile centres are being run by single operators, who are not even ‘semi-literate’.
 
 The operator of one such mobile centres told TOI that checking pollution of vehicles was not “rocket science”. “Even if a vehicle is standing one kilometre away, I can tell you if it is polluting. We don’t have modern equipment like those centres at petrol pumps and we issue a certificate after looking at the colour of the smoke emitted by a vehicle. We also check if a vehicle is making any noise,” he said, requesting anonymity.
 
 Also, the Environment Protection Rules, 1986, mandates that all petrol and diesel-run vehicles should comply with the mass emission standards. But it seems even city’s vehicle owners do not mind going to such mobile centres for a ‘fitness’ certification and mock the green rules.
 
 “When we find it difficult to get pollution fitness certificate, we are forced to go to these centres. For instance, there is no PUC near Subhash Chowk (where I live). The nearest PUC is on Golf Course Extension Road, around two kilometres from my place. I prefer to get it done at a rickshaw centre near Rajiv Chowk than going all the way to Golf Course Extension Road,” said Raju Kumar, a car owner.
 
 Officials at HSPCB expressed helplessness. “Fake (illegal) PUCs in the city are major cause of air pollution. Many times, we have informed RTA about these centres,” said an HSPCB official.
 
 When asked, RTA Pradeep Dahiya said, “As soon as we get the notification, we will carry out an inspection to ascertain the number of petrol pumps that don’t have PUCs. All petrol pumps will be directed to allocate space for setting up PUCs. The step will help bring down vehicular emissions.”
 
 
