The latest episode of   started with Sushant and Aastad discussing Smita’s reaction towards the former regarding the incident in which she had taken away the apron from her feet.

 Then   sang the song ‘Keh Du Tumhe Ya Chup Raho’, which he said, was dedicated to himself. He said that he will be declaring an important decision taken by Bigg Boss to the housemates.
 
 Then he turned on ‘Majhya Baacha TV’ for having the discussion with the housemates.
 
 He told them that he will be playing the songs and the housemates have to guess the name of the person for whom the song is played.
 
  ‘Aata Majhi Satakli’ was the first song that was played. The housemates said that the song described Sushant Shelar in the song.
 
 Then ‘Palbhar Ke Liye Hame Pyar Kar Le’ was for Sai and ‘Sheesha Ho Ya Dil Ho’ was for Resham.
 
 Sai and Pushkar danced to the song ‘Iss Diwane Ladke Ko’.
 
 The funniest moment was when Bigg Boss played the song ‘Kunachya Khandyavar Kunache Ojhe’ for Aastad.
 
 ‘Main Aisa Kyu Hoon’ was played for the confusion queen of the house, Smita, whereas, ‘Hum Chuperustam’ was the song that described Bhushan Kadu.
 
 The song ‘Kuch Na Kaho’ was played for   as she is the most talkative of them all.
 
 After all the songs, the viewers were given a chance to ask their question to the contestants through a call.
 
 One viewer asked Bhushan that why is he scared of getting a hug or kiss from girls. On that Bhushan answered that his wife must be watching the show. That’s why he is scared.
 
 Then Mahesh called all the nominated contestants one-by-one to the Bigg Boss court. Aastad, Megha, Sai, Sushant, Usha were the nominated contestants.
 
 Mahesh announced that Sai, Megha, and Sushant were in the danger zone. But later he said that Sushant is safe.
 
 Mahesh said that Megha and Sai, who are considered as the strongest players of the show were in the danger zone and one out of them will be evicted from the house.
 
 Finally, he announced that Sai was safe and Megha was the one who has been eliminated.
 
 It was a big shock for all the contestants as everyone thought that Megha was in the safe zone.
 
 All the housemates were upset when Megha was leaving the house and then suddenly Mahesh announced that it was a prank. There were no eliminations in that week and so everyone in the house was safe.
 
