Ludhiana: To ensure peaceful and fair municipal corporation elections, videography will be conducted at all the sensitive and super-sensitive polling stations. 

 Addressing the media here on Tuesday, chief electoral officer Jagpal Singh Sandhu said, “We have asked the police commissioner and district electoral authorities to identify such polling booths. The political parties, too, have been asked to send their recommendations. Besides, more policemen will be deployed there.” 
 
 The chief electoral officer said that a political leader had approached them to install their own cameras at booths. “We can consider giving them permission if the rules allow,” he added. 
 
 Punjab police will man the booths. “As many as 75,000 Punjab policemen will be deployed at the polling stations. If need arises, Ludhiana police will get more cops for election duty,” Sandhu said. 
 
 The candidates would get a level playing field. As many as 1,155 polling booths would be set up for 10.85-lakh voters and 7,000 polling staff would be deployed, he added.
 
 To ensure that there were no allegations of misplacement of candidates’ documents, the election authorities would give their check-list to the returning officers. The returning officers would then give them an acknowledgement of the received documents. The candidates could file nomination papers from February 8 to February 13. The scrutiny of the papers would be done on February 15.
 
 The applicants could withdraw nomination papers on February 16. Poll symbols would be allotted to candidates on February 18. February 10 and 11 were government holidays.
 
 Earlier, the election commissioner held a meeting with the returning officers, assistant returning officers and police officers and asked them to deal strictly with anti-social elements during the elections. The representatives of various political parties, too, met him with their suggestions and grievances. 
 
 Additional director general of police (elections) V K Bhanwra said, “We have started a WhatsApp number on which complaints could be sent with photos and other evidence.” 
 
 The election authorities said they would include the cost of publicity material in the candidates’ election-related expenditure. The polling would start on February 24 at 8am and end at 4pm. The results would be declared on February 27. They have kept two days, February 25 and 26, for re-polling if any incident of violence was reported, they added. 
 
 
