Nagpur: Stories about how soon to be parents had this urgency to get their baby delivered from stroke of midnight onwards on December 31, 2000 to make him/her first baby of the Millennium abounded when the century was taking a turn. Today those infants will attain adulthood to be first adults of 21st century. The thrill of the moment may have died down for the parents, but for those who have turned 18 today, the feeling of being legally adult is catching up.

 The call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Independence Day speech this year has already whetted their appetite for active participation in political and social arenas. This young brigade admits that they look forward most to exercise their right to vote. “Undoubtedly the opportunity to vote is what I am most excited about,” says Kaustubh Ashtankar a class 12 student. “We are eager to be a part of the change that our country is looking at and undergoing too. We are hoping for ample opportunities for growth and a bright future too,” he says. 
 
 For Raunak Kushwah, turning 18 means being able to take decisions for one self. “We are fortunate to be born in the times when India is also reflecting the growth and development so far associated with the West. I feel extremely proud to be an Indian and look forward to being an aware and active citizen,” he says.
 
 Hoping to be a journalist, Shreyas Kumar a class 12 student says that he has great hopes from the government but feels that so far it has fulfilled only 50% of their promises. “We have grown up in an environment full of opportunities but the government has to perform with more dedication,” he says. “I feel that all those who are of my age need to play a more active role in the social and political sphere to remove inequalities and social injustice that still exists.”
 
 Still feeling ill-equipped to weigh the political scenario, Rushil Parikh another 12th std student says, “I have got the right to vote now but before exercising it next year I would like to see what and how can I contribute towards my country’s growth and progress.”
 
 Looking for opportunities in their own country so that they don’t have to go abroad Tanisha Soni, representing her generation says, “We want all the avenues for growth and development here so that we don’t have to leave our homes or country in search of lucrative jobs. But a change that I want to be a part of is for bringing in a safer environment for women.” 
 
 For B.A first year student Devyani Sahkhare turning 18 is a momentous occasion. “There is a whole list of resolutions that I have made for myself. I want to be a responsible citizen and wish to be the change that I want to see in my country,” she says. 
 
 Taking the sentiment forward, Tapin Sontakke a body builder says that politics plays in every sphere of life in India. “Athletes in this country don’t get the encouragement that they deserve because all sports federations are full of political people instead of those from the sphere of sports they represent. I hope being an adult would also give me some power to change this,” says the first year engineering student.
 
 This tech savvy generation has grown up in an environment of constant technological up gradation. Riding on technology these geeks are all set to conquer the world and hope that they get the right environment at home to do so. “We are fortunate to be at par with the world in terms of technology,” says Avinash Kale a first-year engineering student. “I subscribe to the Make in India initiative and hope to see our growth through it,” he says. 
 
 But 12th std student Pratiksha Kamble has her reservations. “I will pin my dreams on technology only if the government is able to fulfil its promise of smart cities. We still struggle with Wi-Fi connectivity and high speed Internet is still a dream,” she says. 
 
 The efforts to digitalize the economy are however a welcome initiative for most. “Though there are many glitches and flip flops but digital payments and online transactions are very beneficial and will root out corruption. It also conditions us to international standards where plastic money is a norm,” feels Sonam Pote a commerce student.
 
 Though these just turned 18 are confident about their future course, it is the social divide which rattles them the most. “Our society will suffer if we will continue to give special privileges on the basis of caste,” feels Shrikant Nimkar an engineering student. “I have seen many brilliant students loose out and less intelligent ones get seats because of their caste and this creates a lot of ill will. We all have to seek growth from an equal platform. Concessions should be made for economically weaker students not for those who get less scores,” he says.
 
 Agreeing that they feel privileged due to the prosperous environment in which they have grown up, Raunaq Wanjari, who plans to create a platform for social work says, “Now that I am an adult, I look forward to the freedom of choice and making decision. For me it means that I will give back to the society as much as I can through helpful deeds and bringing joy to the less privileged segment.” 
 
 
