HYDERABAD: In addition to a significant rise in the number of startups working in the healthtech space in India, the funding being garnered by Indian healthtech companies has also seen a hike over the past year, shows a new report. In Hyderabad, healthtech startups received a total funding of $11 million in 2017, shows figures available with online startup research platform Tracxn.

 According to industry experts, in 2018, healthtech startups will work towards integrating more cutting edge technologies such as Internet of Things (IoT),   analytics and medical devices into the   space. 
 
 From using IoT solutions for post-operative care to using artificial intelligence systems for early detection of heart diseases, technology has immense potential to improve healthcare access and quality, say experts. 
 
 "IoT and Big Data analysis are two technologies that will play a crucial role in the healthtech space in India. Since there is a lot of data in the healthtech space, such technologies can be used to derive more accurate and enhanced predictions. Going forward, we also expect other technologies such as artificial intelligence and machine learning to also play a larger role in the healthcare space in India," said Srikanth Srinivasan, Regional Director for National Association of Software and Services Companies ( ), Telangana.
 
 
  
 
 According to a report titled 'Healthcare in India: Are we there yet?' and published by industry body NASSCOM, healthtech, as a sector, has the potential to uplift the Indian healthcare industry, which is currently facing several challenges such as high rate of out-of-pocket expenditure, lack of skilled healthcare professionals and a lesser-than-desired bed capacity across the hospitals.
 
 "Today people are able to access doctor consultations and opinions at the click of a button and there is a lot of investor interest in startups that can eliminate the time, cost and distance associated with the traditional healthcare system in India. Going forward, there is going to be greater adoption of real-time and remote diagnosis-both of which are possible by bringing in more technology such as medical devices that are capable of remotely sensing and continuously monitoring one's vitals," explained  , CEO of CallHealth, a Hyderabad-based healthcare services aggregator and home healthcare provider.
 
 "We are looking to integrate more medical devices that are capable of continuously monitoring vitals into our doctor consultation platform. By bringing in more technology, we will be able to provide users with more real-time access to healthcare," Thalapalli added.
 
 Other city startup founders said that adoption rate of information management and cloud services was high among corporate clients, but in fields such as telemedicine, the adoption is lukewarm. "Although the future is very promising for the healthtech space in India, large-scale adoption is not happening presently," said Raghu Bathina, Celes Care founder, a city-based online telemedicine platform.
 
 
