Shillong:   calls it “Meghalaya’s way of life”. On Tuesday, music kicked things off for the party’s election campaign in the state.

 The ‘Concert for Peace’, with Congress president   in attendance, was a soft launch of the party’s campaign. A 6000-strong crowd turned up at the Polo Grounds. In the sea of people inside the concert venue, a 63-year-old woman was seen waving a Congress flag. Balawan Passah had made her way from Jaiaw Langsning with a group of about 20 people. They were all here to cheer for Rahul. As for the music, “I am here to dance,” she said.
 
 At the concert, the Congress connect was underplayed and music took centre-stage. Music and   are, after all, often said in the same breath.
 
 “As tribals, we have music in our blood,” Rudy Wallang, singer-songwriter and guitarist for Soulmate, said. The blues band was the headliner for Tuesday’s ‘Concert for Peace’. “For us, the main concern is social issues. We see a lot happening around us that is very negative. Soulmate sings the blues to alleviate some of this negativity,” Wallang said. “I am not interested in political parties. I am interested in a leader who can help actual development, which will bring about peace and prosperity,” he added.
 
 Political consciousness is becoming more evident in the Meghalaya music scene. Rap group Cryptographik Street Poets, for instance, made waves with its protest song against uranium mining in the state. Musician-activist Gwyneth Alicia feels a change is under way. “Music was just an entertainment business when I started out. Over the past 10-15 years, however, the music scene in Meghalaya has been emerging as a more politically conscious one. That is having a very significant impact.”
 
 Last year, chief electoral officer Frederick Kharkongor had roped in folk-fusion band Summersalt to create awareness about voting rights and draw young voters. Kit Shangpliang, who wrote the lyrics to the resultant collaboration, ‘Tarak Tak Tak’, said, “Music can and has been used to talk about social issues. Artistes have been doing that to improve the society.” He added, “There is a valued section of right-thinking people in Meghalaya who would like voters to make their choices responsibly and ethically. We are with them.” 
 
 
