Vadodara: In an attempt to ensure that aquatic life in the Sursagar remains unaffected by the rejuvenation and beautification project, the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) will be making a pond within Sursagar. The work on removing debris and plaster of Paris (PoP) deposits on its bed will begin soon.

 Wildlife protection activists had expressed concerns regarding the aquatic life in the pond when it was being emptied. But the VMC has said that it will ensure that the aquatic life remains unaffected due to the work in the pond.
 
 VMC officials said that the water in the centre of the pond will not be emptied immediately. “This is being done to ensure that the aquatic life is not disturbed,” said VMC executive engineer (Futuristic Planning Cell) Dhiren Talpada, who is overseeing the work.
 
 A bund will also be created around the area of the pond where water will be left for the species that live in the pond. Apart from other varieties of animals, the species include large turtles that were even seen when water was being emptied. The process of emptying the pond was started in December and was stopped recently.
 
 Earthen ramps are being made near the Prince talkies as well as near the Dandiabazaar crossroads to ensure that machines can enter the pond. The sludge on the bed of the pond in the portion that has been emptied will be allowed to dry for some days and will then be taken in dumpers and emptied elsewhere. The VMC had conducted a test of the material in its public health laboratory and has reached to a conclusion that it is not hazardous.
 
 Officials said that once work along the periphery of the pond that is presently empty is completed, the water will be emptied slowly towards the periphery. The aquatic life is expected to move to the periphery along with the water. After this, work will begin towards the interiors of the pond.
 
 According to estimates, the pond had around 2,60,000 cubic meters of water. Below it lies a two meter deep layer of sludge with volume of around 1,20,000 cubic meters. The VMC will be spending Rs 38.09crore on the project.
 
 Idols surface as pond dries up
 
 Vadodara: Several idols of Lord Ganesha that had been immersed in the Sursagar surfaced when its peripheries dried up after water was pumped out of the pond. These were made of plaster of Paris and did not get dissolved even after months since they were immersed. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) too is in a fix regarding the future of the pond despite work being done on it if immersions continue in the pond.
 
 
