Although the draft Coastal Regulation Zone Notification 2018 issued by the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change is intended to protect fishermen and the coastline, the proposals have come as a letdown for green activists and fishermen representatives.

 Environmental activist   said it was prudent to retreat from the sea at a time when climate change was leading to unpredictable tidal activity. However, on the contrary, the new notification allows development closer to the sea, he said. The 2011 notification restricted development within the hazard line, which defines the area to which sea’s violence can be felt, whereas the 2018 notification permits such activities. “It is a recipe for disaster,” he added.
 
 Further, although the state government has to notify turtle nesting sites, the Union ministry has not issued any guidelines in this regard. Thus, the state government can leave such areas outside the CRZ and take up these areas for development, he said.
 
 “When even the 1991 notification has not been implemented so far, what is the need for a new notification? This will put India’s maritime interests in jeopardy,” Jayaraman warned.
 
 Speaking about the new notification,   president   said fishermen traditionally used the shore front for their housing requirements, storing and repairing boats, drying and mending nets. There is no mention about protecting these spaces in the new notification under which all these areas will be lost to facilitate development activities, he said.
 
 Fishermen who kept their boats up to the shore line behind the Gandhi statue have already been forced to move to the loop road stretch in Nochikkuppam. Now even on the loop road, a pavement has been laid by the civic body, eating into the space used by fishermen. A bicycle track on this road has also been proposed, which will further encroach upon the area hitherto utilised by fishermen, he said.
 
 Whle in a city like Chennai, the activities of fishermen are restricted to a small area, the problem is more acute in rural areas where fishing hamlets are located close to each other for a fairly long distance along the coast, he said. During the monsoon period of three months, fishermen repair their boats or mend their nets on the beach front. Fishermen are already struggling due to depletion in fish catch and by introducing such new laws, the government is further pushing them to the brink, he said.
 
 
