After weeks of entertaining the audience and leaving the viewers with anticipation about who will walk away with the coveted ‘Taqdeer ki sunehri topi’,   Season 6 crowned   as its winner amidst much fan-fare and celebration. 

 Karnataka’s dance prodigy, who has grown up in a small town called Ankola, Sanket Gaonkar was presented the Dance India Dance trophy crowning him as the ultimate dance superstar along with a cash prize of Rs.5 lakhs. 
 
 Speaking about his victory, an elated Sanket said, "Dance India Dance has been a great learning experience for me. Ever since I took my first steps in the show as a part of 'Master Mini Ke Master Blasters', I have wanted to learn everything there is to learn about dance and make everyone proud. The entire team, including Dada and my fellow contestants have been very supportive and have encouraged me throughout my journey on the show. They have helped me in moving a step forward in my dance journey."
 
 He further added, "My training and practice sessions every week focused on improving and honing my skills and scaled up my performance in front of the judges. I am glad to have fostered some truly special bonds which I will cherish for life. It’s yet to completely sink in that I have won Dance India Dance; I am really excited and want to thank Zee TV for giving me this amazing opportunity and platform."
 
 
  
 Finalists Sachin Sharma and Piyush Gurbhele were announced as the first and second runners-up respectively and were also awarded with cash prizes to celebrate their journey and achievements on the show. 
 
 The Dance India Dance Grand Finale also witnessed the presence of the gorgeous and multi-talented   who is set to make her television debut as a judge on DID Li’l Masters. Joining her at the Finale was the upcoming show’s dynamic host   and the terrific team of Dance India Dance including Grand master Mithun Da, masters Marzi, Mudassar and Mini, and the show’s hosts   and Sahil Khattar, who collectively raised the evening's entertainment quotient. 
 
