CENTURION: It’s not a very comfortable feeling for any team knowing that while they happen to be just about finishing dealing with a batsman who ended up scoring 1345 Test runs between 2017 and now, and a mind-boggling 558 runs in six One-day Internationals at an average of 186, they’re about to run into another one who is no less intimidating.

 
 
 
 
 Miles away from where South Africa practised on Tuesday afternoon to gear up for yet another T20 encounter with   & Co., Steven Smith has been busy planning his next move. At 1388 runs in 21 matches, averaging over 75, he’ll be South Africa’s next big challenge when the four-Test series begins here on March 1.
 
 
 
 
 
 Coming from an incredibly successful Ashes 2017, where he scored two centuries and a double, Smith will be no antidote to Kohli’s well-documented belligerence, one that hasn’t given the South Africans any reason to celebrate despite narrowly winning a well-contested Test series.
 
 If Smith were to make his bat do the talking, like it did against England, South Africa’s misery at home is unlikely to end anytime soon.
 
 Speaking of misery, the hosts look determined to shrug off the demons that have emerged through a very lacklustre show in the shorter formats against India over the last three weeks. Gearing up for the second Twenty20 International at the SuperSport Park in  , the frantically-assembled South African side – in the wake of injuries – will look to end this two-month cricketing rivalry on a cheerful note.
 
 That’ll be possible if they can halt the raging Indians who don’t seem to be giving away too many opportunities to an opposition when wearing blue. Only if South Africa manage to get the better of India in the Centurion game, starting 6 pm local time here, will the third T20 in Cape Town – a sellout, regardless of Wednesday’s result – will assume any significance where the series is concerned.
 
 The T20 aside, South Africa need a confidence boost ahead of what’s coming up next - Australia. Right-arm medium-pacer Junior Dala, who picked 2-47 in his T20I debut against India on Sunday and could’ve made it three had he appealed for a Shikhar Dhawan glove-nick to the ‘keeper, says, “We can turn this around. If we win tomorrow and on Sunday (in Cape Town), everyone will say, it was a good tour for South Africa. We won the tour 2-1 (Tests & T20s).”
 
 India, meanwhile, cancelled the optional practice session they had scheduled earlier and spent the day relaxing at their hotel. Kohli, who had briefly left the field during the Sunday game to attend to a niggle in the hip, is ready to lead the team once again.
 
