CHENNAI: Was there a whip that mandated all AIADMK MLAs to vote in favour of the trust motion moved by CM Edappadi K Palaniswami on February 18, 2017? The fate of 11O   faction MLAs, including the deputy CM himself, hinges on this question pending before the Madras HC. On Wednesday, counsel C S   told court the whip would bind only 122 ‘Koovathur MLAs’ — supporters of TTV — and not the 11MLAs of the   group. Panneerselvam had earlier told   that they voted against the motion despite the whip.

 
 
 
 DMK furnished a proof on Tuesday, showing that Panneerselvam himself had told election commission about the faction voting against the government.
 
 “We are not denying the fact that there was a whip. But the whip was issued to the 122 MLAs who were in Koovathur. We were not in Koovathur and no directions were issued to 11 of us by the party whip,” senior counsel C S Vaidhyanathan, appearing for OPS, told the court.
 
 But, flaying the ‘selective whip’ theory, P S Raman, representing four MLAs from T T V Dhinakaran camp, said: “It is alarming to see to what extent people make pleadings in the court to continue in power. This apart, when a chief minister is facing a floor test, it becomes mandatory for the party legislators to vote in favour of the confidence motion. A whip under party seal is not required in such a circumstance.”
 
 Vaidhyanathan, however, said: “As a constitutional authority whose acts are protected under Article 212 of the Constitution, a decision of the speaker can be subject to judicial review as per the principles laid down by the Supreme Court in Kihoto Hollahan’s case. However, the speaker in the present case is yet to take a decision on the petition before him seeking disqualification of OPS and 10 MLAs. In such circumstances, the relief soughtfor in the petition is not maintainable.”
 
 This apart, Palaniswami was elected as the leader of the AIADMK legislative party at a meeting held on February 14, 2017, at a resort in Koovathur. Panneerselvam and 10 MLAs were not present in that meeting, he said, adding that Palaniswami sought to form the government with the support of 122 MLAs only.
 
 “In fact, even while a whip was allegedly issued to each MLA independently, there was no direction or whip that was received by the 11 MLAs,” Vaidhyanathan added. Recording the submissions, the first bench of   and   posted the plea to February 22 for further hearing.
 
