Gurgaon: Less than two months after the Supreme Court gave its   in the   land scam, it has emerged that a portion of the 400 acre land, whose ownership the Supreme Court vested with HSIIDC, has been sold off by   individuals through 20 different registries made at the Manesar tehsil office.

 The   deals were struck from March 14 onwards, two days after the   gave its verdict, and happened with the knowledge of the tehsildar, naib tehsildars, registry clerk and two computer operators. “We’ve suspended the registry clerk with immediate effect. The computer operator was removed. An inquiry is currently under way to assess the extent of involvement of the tehsildar and naib tehsildars. Once the report is submitted to the deputy commissioner, due action will be taken against those liable,” said Sanjiv Singhla, sub-divisional magistrate, Gurgaon.
 
 According to sources, while some of the deals included change of land ownership within a family, others involved third party transactions. Interestingly, even the mutations for these land parcels were done by the tehsil office in the name of their latest buyers.
 
 Officials in the know said even though they were still assessing the extent of land sold off, they were sure that so far, at least 25 registrations have been made by different landowners. Sources however said at least four acres of land has been sold in multiple deals, in this two-and-a-half month period.
 
 The land parcels under question fall within three villages, Manesar, Nakdaula and Naurangpur. Singhla said it has come to their notice that many such deals had happened even before the March 12 Supreme Court verdict, even as the land was sub-judice. However as of now, their inquiry is restricted to land transactions done after the court verdict.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the Manesar land deals happened in 2004, when the Congress government led by BS Hooda had withdrawn a notification for acquisition of 688 acres, after issuing it. In the interim, the prospect of acquisition triggered distress sales by landowners to private builders, in the belief that these deals would fetch them a better price. By the time the state rescinded the notification, the builders had managed to buy 400 acre for Rs 100 crore, as opposed to the market value of Rs 1,600 crore.
 
 In March this year, the Supreme Court reversed decision to scrap the acquisition, and ruled that ownership of the land now rested with the state industry body HSIIDC and urban development authority Huda.
 
 
