MUMBAI: In the first arrests since the Rs 11,000-plus crore - and counting - bank fraud stunned the nation, a special   court sent a retired deputy manager in the  's forex department,  , a single-window bank operator (clerk), Manoj Kharat, and an authorized signatory for prime accused  's firms, to police custody until March 3. Nirav, meanwhile, is holed up in a luxury hotel suite overlooking Central Park in New York, a short five-minute walk from Trump International Hotel and Tower.

 
 The arrests relate to the first FIR launched by PNB on January 31 alleging a fraud of Rs 280 crore. Since then, the CBI has filed another FIR and the latest estimate of the fraud has grown to Rs 11,300 crore.
 
 In his remand order, CBI judge S R Tamboli said the offence against the accused was serious. "There must be fair chance to investigate the offence which has consequences for the economy of the nation," he added. He also said the agency needed time to recover missing fraudulent letters of undertakings (LoUs, a form of bank guarantee) issued by former PNB official Gokulnath Shetty.
 
 Meanwhile, the CBI on Saturday searched six more places, including PNB's Brady House branch, and questioned six PNB officials to know more about the "larger conspiracy".
 
 The ED continued its raid at premises of Nirav Modi on Saturday, and recovered jewellery that it claimed was worth around Rs 20 crore. On Thursday and Friday, they claimed to have recovered jewelry collectively worth Rs 6,650 crore from various premises belonging to Nirav and his close relatives.
 
 Prior to being presented in court the three were taken to a hospital for a medical checkup. Arguing for custody, CBI prosecutor Om Prakash said the three would be required for a thorough investigation. The FIR alleged that Shetty and Kharat during their posting in the forex department at Brady House, Mumbai, fraudulently issued eight LoUs equivalent to Rs 280 crore on February 9, 10 and 14, 2017 in favour of Allahabad Bank, Hong Kong and Axis Bank, Hong Kong, without following prescribed procedure. 
 
 It added that the funds raised for import bills were not utilised for such purposes in many cases. In court, Shetty's counsel said the affair was "nothing but trial by media". He said the CBI wanted to "recover missing documents related to alleged fraudulent LoUs" from Shetty, but wondered how, as a retired officer, he could have any. Kharat's lawyer sought minimum custody for him. Bhat's counsel said the CBI was prone to blow up the extent of scams and cited the 2G case.
 
