Nagpur: Ambazari has been notified as reserved forest and has full degree of protection under the Indian Forest Act, 1927. However, it is a free for all here.

 A visit to the forest area on Monday revealed that all the prohibited activities such as trespassing, littering, fishing, drinking, grazing, grass extraction etc are rampant right under the nose of the forest department.
 
 It has come to fore that people have easy access inside the forest from Pandhrabodi gate. Though the forest gate has been locked, trespassers take advantage of shattered forest check-post to enter deep into the forest.
 
 Cattle-owners from Pandhrabodi slums enter 4-5km deep inside the forest to cut grass for fodder. Samrat Yadav (17), a student, and his family were seen 4km inside the forest cutting grass in compartment number 798.
 
 “My family owns 15-20 buffaloes. As fodder from market is costly, I come here regularly to cut grass,” Yadav said. The buffaloes were being fed outside the forest gate with same grass brought from the forest.
 
 Heaps of grass were being moved out on a bike right in front of permanent van majoor Govind Gaikwad, who was supervising weeding works nearby. “This is a regular feature,” he said.
 
 “At a time when Maharashtra is losing critically endangered birds like Great Indian Bustards (GIBs) due to shrinking grasslands, the forest department is itself allowing grasslands to vanish at Ambazari. Recently, vast stretches of grassland were converted into plantation areas. This has led to habitat destruction,” said Krishna Lanjewar, a regular bird watcher at Ambazari.
 
 At 1pm, TOI also found a group of 15 students from neighbouring Dharampeth Science College celebrating a birthday party in compartment number 799 by serving drinks. It seemed to be a hotspot for revellers as many empty liquor bottles were scattered there.
 
 When countered, the students started fleeing and refused to show their ID cards. However, their uniforms displayed Dharampeth College logo on it. Later, the students admitted that they were in the forest for a birthday party.
 
 At Ambazari backwaters close by, a family was engaged in washing blankets and clothes polluting the lake water. “We are not regulars here and came today only as there was a death in our family and also because the NMC taps went dry,” said Indubai Durge & Devilal Walthare of Sanjay Nagar, Pandhrabodi.
 
 Eyewitnesses said this forest stretch has become a den for anti-socials who come from nearby slums and indulge in gambling, cooking food and partying with liquor. This was also evident from the makeshift chulhas and many empty liquor bottles strewn in the forest area.
 
 Over a kilometre stretch of forest from the Pandhrabodi gate has been dirtied with garbage, plastic water bottles, empty beer cans, pouches and wrappers.
 
 “During rains, all the garbage flows into the water body polluting it. Spurt in fishing from this side over the years has led to loss of bird habitat. Lake pollution is also killing fish,” said Aniruddha Bhagat, an avid bird watcher.
 
 A painter by profession, Bablu Gedam of Sudamnagri admits he is into regular fishing. In compartment number 798, there was huge fire which was extinguished.
 
 “Though the lake doesn’t belong to the forest department, it is accessed through forest only. Officials say they constructed huge concrete towers for fire watchers. Then why frequent fires have been taking place at Ambazari? It is because there is no monitoring and these towers are basically meant for tourism,” said Nishad Meshram, another bird watcher. 
 
 “It is surprising why forest officials are not closing the entry point. Last year, in the same swatch of forest at different spots, 16 ground fires were reported. These fires are ignited by trespassers only,” said Bhagat.
 
 Nagpur deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) G Mallikarjuna admits the opening from Pandhrabodi has become a nuisance, but promised it will be closed in one month by constructing a wall. He also denied there was any political pressure to give access to the people inside the forest for grazing cattle.
 
 
