PATNA: Of all subjects in the Class XII exams, mathematics is usually considered to be the toughest. However, according to Delhi Public School teacher Sanjay Kumar, maths is interesting. Talking to TOI’s Faryal Rumi, Sanjay advises students to practise as much as they can. Excerpts:

 Topics that should not be missed out…
 
 Practising topics like matrices, determinants, calculus and linear programming well will help students fetch good marks. Noting down and revising previous years’ questions will make them understand the pattern that is followed in the exam. Referring to the NCERT book and chalking out a proper study plan are also important.
 
 Suggest ways to memorize the important formulae.
 
 Not all questions are formulae based. However, remembering formulae helps solving a problem quicker. Before learning a formula, read the definitions and make sure you have understood them. I believe that if students concentrate on the NCERT book and revise everything well, they do not have to worry. 
 
 How to categorize the syllabus?
 
 At first, students should pick the easy portion of the syllabus which they understand. Attempt the tough portion later.
 
 Tips for parents to boost the morale of their kids.
 
 Parents should encourage children to meet their friends, talk to them and let them do things they enjoy. They should stop thinking about the results.
 
 Points that students should keep in mind while writing the paper.
 
 While writing the paper, keep in mind that all parts and sections are important and nothing should be left out. Even if you do not remember all the steps, writing even one or two will fetch some marks. Make a rough column on all the pages because the evaluators check that too.
 
 Many students think maths is tough. What do you have to tell them?
 
 Tough? They consider maths the toughest subject ever. I believe if they keep practising, they will score well. When in doubt, they should move to the next question without wasting time. They can attempt the tough one later. Self-confidence is very important.
 
 
