As the name suggests, Sajda is an obeisance to the higher side of man. The musical band, which includes a   cadre bureaucrat, weaves strains of poetry, music and divinity to hold listeners in thrall. TOI catches up with these musicians, who sing from the heart. 

  
 
 The visitor at this bureaucrat's house is soothed by serene gardens, a cat with an attitude and a happy dog. The ambience reflects love and peace, ideals that  , secretary, tourism, Haryana, propagates through his band, Sajda.
 
 Recently, members of the band performed live at  , marking their 25th performance. Since their first concert in October 2016, Sajda has won hearts with its eclectic mix of Sufi poetry and music.
 
 A typical concert starts with Vardhan reciting Sufi and mystic couplets in his deep baritone, which is then strung into a melody by the lead singer. The music is soft, yet the message is powerful.
 
 "For us, music is all about healing. I remember noticing a woman in her 60s at one of our concerts. After the performance, when people were coming up on stage to meet us, I saw her keeping to one side, crying silently. I walked up to her and asked what troubled her. She said for the first time in many tragedy-stricken years, she felt healed. She said she had cut herself from public life but now felt ready to open up again. For me, that was the greatest reward of music," he said. Every reward however, comes with a struggle 
 
 Although Vardhan's spiritual and poetic bent of mind is well known in bureaucratic circles, becoming part of a band set tongues wagging.
 
 "Bureaucracy is difficult. That is why it took me two years to accept the proposal to form Sajda. There are many who say, 'isko to aur koi kaam nahin hai," said Vardhan.
 
 Despite that, he does not have regrets. "I loved to visit Sufi shrines and mazars even as a child of 10. For me, this is my natural element. The others in my band share the same inclination, which is why we are received with love wherever we perform," he said.
 
  
 
 The exponent of classical Hindustani music flits from one genre of music to the other with practiced ease. He is a music composer, writer and singer who has also forayed into the Hindi film industry with   and Kacche Din. But Sajda is the call of his heart.
 
 "Sajda is a one of its kind band where poetry recitation happens on stage and I sing. The raw portrayal of emotions is a hallmark of the group," he said. He makes light of his ability to juggle genres. "It is easy if you have your basics right. In a typical concert, we touch four to five genres and make sure it remains entertaining," Padamjeet explained.
 
 The former Ranji trophy player infuses his melodies with spirit - a spirit that did not let him give up when he was forced to stop playing cricket.
 
 "An injury at the age of 17 kept me out of the field for seven years. Still, I played Ranji. I would say music has healed me in more ways than one," he said.
 
  
 
 You cannot gloss over Kamal's refreshing simplicity. He speaks shyly but sincerely, opening up as the conversation veers towards music.
 
 "Sajda stands out in a multitude of bands because it brings together music and the poetry of greats like Faiz, Ghalib, Javed Akhtar and even  ," he said.
 
 Commenting on the rousing reception they have been given in different states, including Hyderabad and Punjab, he said they strive to establish a connect. "Wherever we go, we include the colours of the region. In Punjab, we incorporate Punjabi and in Lucknow, we have Urdu," he said.
 
  Being untouched by the need for airs himself, Kamal says the band gives credit where it is due. "We put the spotlight on writers, musicians and singers. So it is not as if there is one face of the band," he said.
 
 Kamal has worked with veterans in the music industry from the early 90s and observes how the music industry has changed. "Digital music dominates now. The skill of the singers and musicians is not that important as they have the technology to cover up flaws. There are few people who actually sing live even in a live show," he said.
 
 
