JALANDHAR:   president   here on Sunday asked the leadership of ally SAD to publically acknowlege his party's growing clout in the state. 

 Sampla's statement came at a rally organised as part of the  's state-wide 'Bajao Dhol Kholo Pol' campaign to "expose" the "unfulfilled promises" of the   state government during its first year in power. The statement made   chief Sukhbir Badal say, later at the rally, that the "BJP is the heart of Akali Dal". " Vaise taan pehlaan bhavein tussi jo marji kehnde rahe, hun thoda jiha vichaar tussi vi tyaag dio. Pehlaan tuhade bande kehnde rahe BJP de palle ki aa; hun thoda jiha keh dia karo ki BJP de palle vi bahut kujh aa (earlier, you said anything you liked, now give that up. Earlier, your leaders would keep asking what does the BJP have. Now, your leaders should at least acknowledge that BJP is also strong),"   said at the rally. 
 
 The statement was also a hint at the muted differences between the two allies. Sampla, however, was quick to clarify that the two parties would go hand in hand. "Now will shall fight together and topple people like Captain (CM Amarinder Singh). We should have place in hearts for each other and each of our worker is ready to fight along with you (SAD)," he said. 
 
 He attacked the CM for not fulfilling "even one promise" his party had made before elections in 2017.
 
 In his address, SAD president Sukhbir Badal said that the alliance between SAD and BJP was rock solid. "Whatever happens to the country, the alliance will remain there for ever. BJP is the heart of Akali Dal," he said. 
 
 Badal gunned for AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, askingh him to apologize to the people of Punjab for tarnishing the image of its youth by levelling baseless allegations on drug addiction. "Now, it is the Congress's turn to apologize. It is its party leaders who claimed that 70% youth of Punjab were addicts. Capt Amarinder Singh should tell people if even a single big fish has been arrested for drug smuggling; he should tell people where such a large number of drug addicts are treated," he said. "They focussed on drugs and defamed Majithia just for votes," he added. 
 
 Majithia was hailed by the BJP leaders for making Kejriwal apologize to him. Majithia, on his part, took on local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and finance minster Manpreet Singh Badal. 
 
 
