He claims to possess water-divining powers. But Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) vice-chancellor P P Chellathurai says she was caught unawares by the controversy caused by Devanga Arts College assistant professor  , who allegedly asked some woman students to offer sexual favours to ‘top officials’. In an interview with TOI, Chellathurai said he had no idea about the case and was at pains to explain that he did not qualify as a “top university official” merely by virtue of being the vice chancellor.

 
 
 Chellathurai: There was no communication from [Devanga College] about the incident to either me or the registrar or the dean of MKU. I was recovering from an eye surgery when a reporter contacted me over phone seeking my comments. It was only then I was alerted to the situation.
 
 
 
 
 Chellathurai: As per Chapter 2 of the Madurai Kamaraj University Act, 1965, section 9 and sub section 4 (A) under section 12, the governor-chancellor is vested with all powers. He is the head of the university and the president of the senate. Usually, vice-chancellors form committees to look into small, local issues concerning the university. As this was a sensitive issue, we submitted a preliminary report to the governor on Monday afternoon, and he later decided that an inquiry committee ought to be formed at the highest level. 
 
 
 
 Chellathurai: He asked me to give full support to the inquiry committee to bring out the hidden dimensions in this issue. He is a godly, grandfatherly person. There is no greater sin, no bigger stain to the entire teaching community than implicating him (Purohit) in this issue. Those who are guilty will be punished. We must wait for the inquiry to conclude before throwing stones at people.
 
 
 
 
 Chellathurai: I am not a top officer because I happen to be the vice chancellor of Madurai Kamaraj University. In my view, this woman (Devi) works in a small college. For her, even an assistant registrar can be a top officer.
 
 
 
 Chellathurai: The reputation of MKU is intact. My students are happy. But we still need to determine if Madurai Kamaraj University was involved in any way. There is a possibility that the audio tape could have been doctored.
 
 
