On Sunday, Hyderabad woke up to the news of the death of Prince Fazal Jah, the last surviving son of the VII Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan Bahadur. He was 72. Known to be a philanthropist, Jah lived a simple life despite his royal lineage. Remembered by those who knew him as a ‘genial, humble, gracious and generous’ man, he is survived by his wife Sahabzadi Darwerunnisa Begum. Calling Prince Fazal’s passing an irreplaceable loss, many are saying it is the end of an era. Prominent denizens of the city, who were close to him, share their
special memories about him, as Hyderabad Times listens in: 
 
 
 He was a gentleman; a very down to earth person who led a very simple life. We are a very close-knit family and he was very attached to everyone. But he used to confide in very few people. He spent most of his time and money on  , where his father is buried. He was very attached to him. He used to tell us stories about the Nizam and how he was his father’s favourite.
 I shared a very close bond with him. My kids were attached to him as well. There was not a single day when he went out and didn’t return with gifts for them. I remember, I once asked him not to get gifts for them everyday, it wasn’t necessary. Then he started giving them gifts secretly, when I was not at home. 
 —  , son
 
 
 My uncle was a philanthropist who went out of his way to help the needy. He used to spend much of his time doing charity work. He was very close to his father and my mother,  , whose demise on July 17 took a toll on him. Otherwise, he was a very jolly 
 person at heart; fond of cracking jokes at the slightest pretext and keeping everyone engaged. He would mingle with everyone effortlessly — be it the old or young.
 —  , nephew
 
 
 I will always remember him as a well-mannered and dignified human being. Many might not know this, but he loved speaking in public. He was a member of our heritage institution — Hyderabad Deccan Association, and would eagerly wait to be called upon stage and preside over tambola evenings, whenever they were held. He had a polished English accent. He was a philanthropist, but did everything very quietly. He was given the responsibility to take care of Umaor-Mazhabi — a religious trust, which he did with utmost dedication. I feel he bid adieu to the world very early.
 —  , Trustee Awqaf of HEH The Nizam, Mukarram Jah Trust 
 
 
 Nawab saab was humble to the core. I remember giving him call on behalf of two researchers who wanted to interview him for their book. Instead of throwing tantrums, he agreed readily and came down to my house within 10-15 minutes. Such was his humility. Unlike others among the Nizam's descendants, who spent their inheritance and fortune recklessly, he was a judicious spender; just like his father. However, he never thought twice before helping a person in need. He wished nothing in return, except that his father gets the due recognition as the modern architect of Hyderabad; he used to lament that successive governments after 1948 never gave him a fair deal.
 —  , historian
 
 
 He always came across to me as a simple person. He had no airs about his royal lineage and never threw his weight around. He would mingle with everyone with the same spirit and always carried a bottle of water with him, since he would not drink water from anywhere else. He loved paying surprise visits. Sometimes, he would drop by at your home without telling you and if you were not around, he would 
 simply return and not mention it ever. He was also a poet and an avid ghazal lover. He would rarely miss a ghazal mehfil whenever there was one in the city.
 —  , educationist
 
 
