At 19,   is the youngest man in the country to have been feted with the National Award for Best Actor. When he received the news, he was shooting for Eela with   in Mumbai. Despite the excitement, he completed the shoot and went back to an empty room. There was no party and no reasons for any, he tells us. “With so much going on in the country, there’s very little that can make you happy. And I realised that I feel happy when I am with my family,” he said. In Kolkata on a ‘secret trip’ for three days, Riddhi tells us it’s not for awards that he acts. Excerpts: 

 
 
 Yes, but Kajol ma’am had some other work and we got an unscheduled three-day holiday. So, I decided to return to Kolkata. I was dying to be back with my parents and enjoy THE moment with them; I was getting one call after another, but nothing would sink in. In between, I was a bit worried about going to Delhi directly and be joined by my parents there. But this is so much better as my mother wanted the measurements for my clothes that I will wear at the ceremony. I have zeroed in on shuddh Bengali attire. 
 
 
 
 I remember everything quite vividly. I always wanted to be an actor; my father (Kaushik Sen) never asked me to clamber on to the stage randomly and deliver a few lines. As a child, I wanted to know what I was a part of. I didn’t get into acting because my father has a theatre group, my mother is an actor, my grandparents are famous actors… no, this is what I love to do. I always took interest in the props, light, music… At the age of four, I used to correct others’ lines. So, unconsciously, I was aware that this is a serious thing. At four, I remember doing a production, Prachya, where I played an important role. Everyone was sceptical as I had to speak in a Bangal dialect, though my parents were sure of me pulling it off. Then, not only did I perform, I also corrected a 40-something co-actor. Every time he was supposed to say, ‘Baansh gaach gawzaise’, he would say, ‘Baansh gaach gawzaisilo’. I was thrilled as it was also my first work with amma (grandmother Chitra Sen). 
 
 
 On screen, it was Kahaani. Sujoy Ghosh proved that the length of a character doesn’t really matter. In The Wolf of Wall Street,   — who had still not got an Oscar for Dallas Buyers Club — did just one scene and I still remember him for that. That’s the power of good acting. A lot of credit goes to the writer as well, reason why people still remember   (Mukherjee), who played Running Hot Water, and me in Kahaani. On stage, my first big break was Daakghar, which my father interpreted differently.
 
 
 
 I am a well-groomed person, I would say. And it’s not out of courtesy that I talk about my parents. I genuinely owe all my thinking to them. I have been to the best school, which is my home. The way my parents would talk to others, think about politics, current affairs, left an indelible impression on my mind. The way my mother would take certain decisions or my father would come up with a write-up, it all helped me become what I am today. The ambience in my house helped me grow as a person. Anjanda (Dutt) once said if someone didn’t know how to hold the guitar, he could learn the technique, if someone couldn’t straighten his arms while dancing, he could pick it up from his trainer, but there’s no way you can make someone cry; so there’s nothing called ‘practice makes one perfect’ in acting. To conceive a character, you have to go beyond the script. Acting can be learnt as a craft, but you have to invest a lot of 
 yourself in that. 
 
 
 
 Unlike in other parts of the world, here we don’t get eight-10 months to prepare for a role. That way, our filmmakers are far ahead, as they shine despite the constraints. Since we know there won’t be much time, it makes us more focused as actors. I was aware of the constraints that Kaushik kaku had; it’s such a film that producers should be waiting to fund it. But that did not happen and it was heart-breaking when the project got pushed back though Kaushik kaku said, ‘Come what may, I will make this film’. Since he was already fighting for the film, I wanted to be ready. When I had time, I started watching films like The Danish Girl or Tootsie; those helped me understand how actors could completely break themselves and become other people. In their interviews, Eddie Redmayne and Dustin Hoffman had said how they would take interest in the way their characters looked. During Parched, Leena (Yadav) ma’am asked me to think about my character, the cell phone he should be using, the house he should be living in. For Nagarkirtan too, I was prepared in my mind and then, when the shoot started, I got guidance from Kaushik kaku, who is not just a great director, but also one of the best actors in this country. Also, I would observe my mother and girlfriend closely, the way they would pick up a glass… Having Ritwickda (Chakraborty) as a co-star was a bonus, as he is a top-notch actor and is very inspiring.
 
 
 
 People from different countries got in touch with me after the film to say, ‘I saw you in Lion’. I have been lucky that all my directors have given me the scope to act. Garth Davis is a fantastic director, the film he made was on a mind-bogglingly large scale. The first day I met him, he was like, ‘How do you want your character to look like?’ He would make me listen to the film’s background score. It was a great creative exchange and the experience helped me apply myself better in other films. 
 
 
 
 I was dumbfounded for 10 minutes when my mother called me to give the news. Then, when I told Pradeep Sarkar, he announced it on the mic and Kajol ma’am gave me the warmest hug possible. Everyone jumped in joy, they also secretly arranged for a cake. But for me, what was important was to give the shot. See, if I didn’t deliver my scene well, I couldn’t have said later, ‘Actually, that time I got the big news, so excuse me for my bad acting’. I got innumerable calls that evening. I needed two hours to return from the shoot and not for second could I relax. For the next two days, I would shoot and attend calls. On the third day, which was my off, it suddenly struck me…
 
 
 
 My father had come to the airport to pick me up and then my mother cooked for me. My friend Rwitobroto, who is shooting for two films, didn’t have the time to meet me, but Surangana (Banerjee) and Rajorshi (Nag) stayed back at our house one night and though they knew everything, we again revisited all that happened together. Right now, with what is going on in the country, there is no reason to be happy about and I realised nothing gives me more happiness than being with my family. 
 
 
 
 She was in college when I called up to say, ‘Check the news’. Her exams are going on but for the next two days, she didn’t study at all. She researched extensively about the National Awards and told me things I had no clue about! She went home that evening, baked a cake and celebrated with her parents. She told all her friends and they asked for a treat. I had to tell her, ‘Please study’. We are in the habit of writing letters to each other and she wrote me a beautiful letter. 
 
 
 
 On stage, I will soon be seen in Taraye Taraye, my father’s adaptation of Srijatoda’s novel, where there are two stories — of a young boy called Ritwik and Van Gogh (played by Anjanda) — that run parallel. After that, I am planning to direct a short film based on Nabarun Bhattacharya’s short story, Cold Fire. I observe what goes on behind the camera and want to start directing in my small way. I still have a lot to learn. This is a story I want to tell. See, there’s violence everywhere, but we are not thinking why people are becoming so ferocious. I have a feeling it has got to do with the inevitability of death. My grandfather passed away recently and I often feel that one day, nothing will be there. Also, you don’t know when the end will come. I have already adapted the story and narrated it to Atanuda (Ghosh). He is the script supervisor and was very happy to hear it. The producer is extremely supportive and has given me a free hand. 
 
 
 
 The award will only be justified if I can deliver good performances in at least 10 films. I am happy and lucky to have got it, but I am not taking it seriously. Surangana was telling me that I am the youngest actor to have been honoured with it in India. I think there’s a lot more to look forward to now more than ever. Daniel Day-Lewis has three Academy Awards as the Best Actor, has he given up acting?  , again, has three Academy Awards, then how could she come up with a commendable performance in The Post? I always wonder how these people motivate themselves! Alejandro González Iñárritu was given back-to-back Academy Awards as the Best Director for Birdman and The Revenant, but that did not make him sit idle for the next five years. Soumitra (Chatterjee) dadu was conferred the Legion d’honneur, then why is he still acting? It’s because he loves to act. I love playing another person and I now want to play more challenging roles. No one does it for awards.
 
 
 
 Acting is my academics. My mother, Reshmi Sen, plays the most important role in my life. I am done with my formal education. I studied till Class X in South Point and completed high-school education in private. It was my mother’s decision. In India we don’t have a system where a child can be groomed in the subject he takes interest in. My mother understood that physics, chemistry, biology were not going to help me. She helped me focus on my acting. My parents had to go through rut for taking such a bold step. But one has to understand that acting is not an easy thing to do and one should be allowed to do his graduation in acting or filmmaking if he so wants it. I have an offer for a scholarship abroad. I am not rushing into filmmaking, I want to learn. See, you can’t judge a fish by its ability to climb a tree. So many people who have formal education are raping women, committing crimes, taking a dig at homosexuals. To me, education is about learning. And I am happy to stay away from the mindless rat race of scoring marks. For me, the first and the last school is my house and I have got education that some of the best institutions in the country cannot provide.
 
 
 
 
