CHENNAI:   residents undergo an uphill battle to fill their water pots. Their pots do not fit under the twenty-year-old street taps anymore, as the roads have risen by at least three feet in 15 years. Residents have resorted to using hosepipes to transfer water to the pots. According to locals, road-laying was carried out four to five times in the interior roads of Perungudi over the last 15 years.

 After bringing local bodies in Perungudi under its administration in 2011,   has re-laid interior roads once. “Before the city corporation commenced road-laying, we demanded that the existing road surface be scraped away, but officials told us that they do not have the necessary machinery,” Perungudi resident V Karthikeyan said.
 
 The city corporation began employing scientific methods like milling before constructing a new road a mere three years ago. A corporation official said, “We mill the existing road surface to a depth of at least a few inches before laying a new road. Material that is scraped through milling is reused in constructing the new road. Only 25% of the extracted material is discarded as waste.”
 
 Roads in Perungudi (Zone 14) will be re-laid again only after Metrowater completes its water supply project. Metrowater is working on laying underground water pipelines in certain parts including Palavakkam and Kottivakkam. “Work on laying pipes in Perungudi will be completed in a few months, following which arrangements will be made to provide water connection to homes. Once Metrowater commences daily supply, residents will not require the street taps installed by the erstwhile local bodies,” a Metrowater official said.
 
 Parts where the road height has risen in Perungudi include Sekkizhar Street, Nehru Street, Gandhi Street, Kannagi Street and Manimegalai Street. Some old structures such as the shop housing Rasi Ironing in Karpaga Vinayagar Kovil Street are standing a foot below the road surface.
 
 “In added areas such as Perungudi, erstwhile local bodies employed unscientific methods to construct roads over existing agricultural fields. We cannot lower the height of these roads now. However, when we construct roads next, we will ensure that the road height remains the same,” the corporation official said. 
 
 
