JAIPUR: It’s raining sops in education sector in the election year. In her Budget speech, chief minister   announced recruitment of 77,100 teachers on various posts. The posts are 54,000 grade III, 9,000 grade-II, 5,000 lecturers, 4,500 physical trainer teachers, 1,500 Sanskrit teachers, 1,200 headmasters, 1,200 lab assistants and 700 librarians.

 The state government has recruited 67,961 teaching and non-teaching staff in the last four years, said Raje. The experts said that the announcement was high on rhetoric because single agency like   would take years to carry out the recruitment process.
 
 The long-pending demand for putting the self-financing scheme (SFS) courses under the ambit of state financing has been approved in the Budget. Those   courses which are running from last five years will be included in the state financing. As per the announcement, courses like Centre for Converging Technology (CCT) which was facing acute shortage of teachers will benefit from the announcement.
 
 The sops don’t end here. The government also announced to open 17 new colleges in 17 sub-divisional centres by employing retired teachers. ”The new colleges will be constructed from the MLALAD funds along with help from civil society,” said Raje.
 
 Kota already has an agriculture university. Now Kota division will get another agriculture university. The longpending demand of either including milk in mid-day meal programme has been met. The government had made a budgetary allocation of Rs 250 crore for providing milk thrice in a week to 60 lakh students. The milk will be purchased from mahila milk samitis registered with the panchayat.
 
 Raje said the government has added 12 lakh enrolments in last four years.
 
 “The conversion rate from secondary to senior secondary shot up from 48.9% to 74% in the present academic year. The Budget gives Rs 360 crore for building 3,379 classrooms and toilets. The department is hoping that better classrooms and toilets will pull more students towards government schools. Free bus service has been announced for candidates appearing in interviews of exams conducted by UPSC, RPSC and Rajasthan Subordinate and Ministerial Services Selection Board.
 
 Free Wi-Fi facility will be available at all government colleges from the coming session. This service will not be for limited hours in a day.
 
