HYDERABAD: Speaking at the conference, the  ,   said, "Data is the new oil and driver of the economy. India should take a lead in that space." The 'conference on economic diplomacy for development' was jointly organised by   and ministry of external affairs at ISB on Sunday. 

 Prof Srivastava pointed out that apart from privacy issues raised about Aadhaar, it has been effectively used for implementing the Public Distribution System (PDS) of rations at subsidised rates. "Aadhaar is used in private sectors. In fact, transitions are airports have become easier with it," he said.
 
 At the inaugural session, Srini Raju, member, ISB executive board and chairman, iLabs Group raised some concerns on India doing business with other countries and suggested measures which can be taken to fix them. He said while foreign exchange was earned from the US, a major portion of it was going to the China for imports. "What is needed is strategic thinking," he said. India should look for raw material for pharma from other countries as it is largely dependent on China now, he said adding that strategies should be formulated for 15-20 sectors.
 
 During a session, the CEO of Andhra Pradesh Economic Development Board, J Krishna Kishore spoke about how the state was leveraging the best of the market in planning, developing and constructing the capital Amaravati while lauding how systematically the Japanese worked. A Tokyo-based company have been hired to make road travel hassle free in the new city. "Trips abroad serve a purpose. With 33 crore spent, projects with investments worth 77,000 were received for AP," he said about CM N Chandrababu Naidu's foreign trips. 
 
 Vinod K Jacob, Joint Secretary (economic diplomacy and states division) ministry of external affairs said cooperative federalism in the country is provided so that the states don't feel restricted in expanding economic activity with foreign countries. Meanwhile, S Siva Kumar, head, agri and IT business, ITC Ltd underscored the importance of food security in the country. "The rising population and the depleting natural resources throw up a challenge. Every state should adopt techniques to increase productivity," he said.
 
 While India's former representative to the UN, ambassador T P Sreenivasan described how Indian diplomacy had evolved from the Nehruvian times to the Modi era.
 
 
