ZIRAKPUR: Danger hangs low over the residents at Dhakoli and   (PSPCL) seems least bothered to shift these medium- and low-tension   passing over the area’s houses.

 The corporation has received hundreds of complaints from Dashmesh Enclave but acted on none. One of the residents who made a written complaint got a response that the issue was resolved, even though no electrician or official had visited the site to check.
 
 
  
 
 During a visit to Dhakoli on Wednesday, TOI found low-hanging transmission wires passing just 7 feet over houses 185 to 187, and 309 to 311. The residents have made own arrangements to tie the cables to the wall to save their children and families from any accidental contact with these live wires. The situation near house 309 was the worst, as the wires were just 6 feet from the top and children were trying to climb these to use these as a swing. Families have to be very alert while the children are out playing in the street, lest they take live wires to be swings again.
 
 The danger increases during rainy days, since most of these wires also pass over the roads, which can be dangerous to the commuters. One of the affected residents,   of Dashmesh Enclave, pointed to another spot near a community centre where the medium- and low- tension wires were at low height and a threat to the residents. He recalled how a few months ago, there had been a blast in the wires near the community centre, which are only 6 feet above the ground.
 
 Zirakpur executive officer Manbir Gill said the civic body was not allowing anyone to build anything near the high-tension wires of the town. He said there were norms for the medium- and low-tension of wires that the residents must follow. And if there was any complaint about the low height of these wires in the residential area, the people concerned should have to approach the authorities concerned.
 
 Lalita Prasar, resident of Dashmesh, Dhakoli had a grievance that in past one year he and his mother made almost 100 calls to the concerned officials who twice visited also but till date nothing is done by the department to resolve it. She said that on September 3, 2017 he made a written complaint to the area XEN electricity that “my complaint is that bunch of 15 to 20 wires hanging on 7.5 feet height. Despite my several complaints no one has visited the site and complaint is being marked as resolved without visiting the site”. On September 6, 2017 she again made a complaint to the XEN that “no one has visited the site and the situation is still dangerous. Kindly depute someone to get the same resolved”. But till date nothing is done by the concerned department. She said that to avoid any accident she herself call few of the private electricians to tie these wires properly.
 
 
