GURUGRAM: In an age of tablets and e-readers, old-fashioned storytelling seems to have lost its charm. The charm of a parent sending their child to sleep with a yarn, of a troupe of   or travelling   bringing alive myth and history. So, to rekindle the flame of storytelling, a bunch of enthusiastic artistes hosted ‘Dramabaaz’, a one-day festival of stories told through the performing arts.

  On Sunday, at the city’s Chalk Tree School, puppeteers, theatre artistes,   and other tellers of stories from across the NCR, presented a feast for the kids. Happily, mothers and fathers ended up having as much fun as did their sons and daughters. “It helps bring out the child in each parent!” shared Garima Arya, the spirit behind the eponymous outfit ( .) that seeks to imbue lives with the joys of the performing arts. 
 
 The festival is equally a labour of love for Shefali Malhotra, who runs Iloveread.in, an online library of fiction books which offers free home delivery in the National Capital Region (the books are curated for all ages, with a focus on kids). “It breaks my heart to see that parents are happy to give the child a tablet before he or she sleeps – give them a book, or read to them!” urged Shefali. It’s so important, she added, that kids are kept creatively engaged.
 
 Because stories are everywhere. “We just have to make kids aware that you can express yourself through any art form,” insists Garima, whose life has been devoted to the performing arts. “And the best way to reach out to children is through stories.”
 
 On stage, melodrama and high energy fused with quiet reflection. Arunesh Moudgil, for example, is a juggler who found he could tell a story through his skill. His sleight of hand combined with inspired puppetry to bring empathy, emotion and visual drama to the story, ‘Dragon Who Couldn’t Breathe Fire’. Meanwhile, the endearing ‘Ekki Dokki’, based on a Marathi folk tale, leant on live music to take the story forward. Then there was ‘Me and Baba’, a lovely tale of friendship between an old man and a dog, which offers a tender portrayal of love and loyalty. 
 
 Even the venue was perfect, a place that is endeavouring to create more space for the performing arts. It all made for an absorbing Sunday out, for the grown-ups and the young’uns, to which Shefali provides a snug coda. “The way we spend our leisure time defines our character.”
 
 
