Bhopal: BJP president Amit Shah launched the party’s poll campaign in Bhopal on Friday with a scathing attack on “Rajas and Maharajas in MP Congress” and accusing Rahul Gandhi of defaming Hindus with the ‘saffron terror bogey’.

 The BJP president was in Bhopal for a little over two hours, taking a break from the Karnataka campaign, to motivate workers in MP after recent changes in the  . “Madhya Pradesh is the heart of the nation and a pilgrimage for BJP workers. It is the power of workers that will keep   out. The Congress dream to form government in Madhya Pradesh will never be fulfilled,” Shah told a gathering of 5,000 select party workers at BHEL Dussehra Maidan.
 
 Shah praised CM   for development initiatives and said that the BJP government helped MP break out of the Bimaru (laggard) tag. “A lot has been done, and a lot more needs to be done,” he said. After the Karnataka elections, he will visit every district of MP and discuss with the party workers. “The state BJP leadership has vowed to win all 29 Lok Sabha seats in 2019 elections and workers must dedicate themselves to achieve this target,” said Shah.
 
 Accusing Congress of practising “politics of division on the basis of caste”, Shah said: “PM Modi moved a bill for constitutional status to OBCs but the bill got stuck in Rajya Sabha when Congress members, including royal family members from MP, demanded inclusion of minorities in the bill. BJP workers must expose Congress on such incidents.” After coming to power at the Centre in 2014, BJP hs won 15 states under the leadership of PM Modi and Karnataka and MP are next, Shah said. “Congress will be wiped out, again,” he said, accusing the opposition party of “insulting the Election Commission, judiciary and Vice-President”. 
 
 Taking a swipe at the appointment of Kamal Nath as PCC chief and   as Congress campaign manager, Shah said: “After recent nominations in Congress, it’s clear that the fight is between a corporate supporter and Kisan. In MP, Congress cannot even think of victory as it is saffron party’s bastion. Here, BJP is holding on like ‘Angad Ka Paon’, and cannot be displaced,” Shah said, adding: “Do not fear Rajas and Maharajas. You can trounce them in the coming polls.”
 
 “Congress is defaming Hindu religion for political gains. In the name of ‘saffron terror’, Congress got innocent people arrested for terrorist activities but they were acquitted by Special NIA court. The court observation reveals that Congress projected the case for political reasons,” Shah said. “After defaming Hindu religion, Rahul Gandhi used ‘Bhagwa Atankvad’ to garner votes during 2014 Lok Sabha elections. He should apologise to the Hindu community for defaming them in the name of saffron terrorism. If Rahul doesn’t apologise, we will take this issue to the public with a clear message that Congress is dividing society.”
 
 There is no anti-incumbency for BJP in MP, he declared, urging party workers to follow the path shown by its founder member Kushabhau Thakre and Rajmata Vijayareje Scindia to win a fourth term.
 
 “The word anti-incumbency is coined for Congress leaders who after coming to power become addicted to it. In Gujarat, BJP is in power for 22 years and will continue to rule till 2023. MP has over 1 crore party members, of which 65 lakh are enrolled as active members. If every worker campaigns for the party for five days, BJP can reach all the voters in the state. Now, workers must increase the margin of victory so much that Congress can never come close,” said Shah.
 
 
