Nagpur: A day after TOI reported about glitches in MA English merit order, another case has surfaced in which a student scoring less than the topper as per the final merit list has been selected for gold medal by Nagpur University (NU).

 The 105th convocation would be held on Saturday.
 
 On March 20, TOI reported how an MA English student filed objection over the merit order and subsequent selection for award of gold medal to another student scoring less than her.
 
 The aggrieved student’s name was also missing from the first merit list and added only after she filed a complaint. Her plea has gone unanswered so far.
 
 NU defended its MA English merit list saying that a student could score less marks but CGPA can be higher.
 
 Now, in the MA Arabic case, the first three toppers have achieved a CGPA of 10.0 while their marks are different. Out of them, NU has selected the second topper (as per marks) while the student who scored CGPA 10 and more marks has been denied the gold medal.
 
 The medal list doesn’t specify the considerations for awarding the gold medal to second topper (as per marks), though NU said age was factored in.
 
 On Tuesday, pro-VC Pramod Yeole said the medal awards are governed by conditions laid by the sponsors. “Every year, we get such cases when marks are less and CGPA is more or vice-versa. The formula is such that it is possible for students scoring total marks less but high CGPA. The 2013 credit direction is followed,” he said.
 
 Teachers from several colleges questioned the logic in selecting the topper in case of tie such as the one in MA Arabic. Neeraj Khaty, director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation, said the younger student was chosen in MA Arabic.
 
 Teachers ridiculed the method saying the natural criteria should have been marks when there is a tie in CGPA.
 
 Also, so far no complaint or objection has not been filed with the university regarding MA Arabic merit order, though there being a clear case for it.
 
 When asked for award guidelines, Khaty said those are shared with students when they file objections.
 
 
