Trichy: Urging the Madras high court to deliver the verdict on the disqualification of 18 AIADMK MLAs, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president S Thirunavukkarasar said that the verdict which would decide the fate of the present government is being delayed for no reason whatsoever.

 He was speaking on the sidelines of the party meeting of TNCC district presidents in Trichy on Sunday. 
 
 “The court should function in an impartial manner to save public faith on the judiciary. However, several crucial verdicts are being delayed for no reason by the court,” he said, while referring to the high court verdict reserved on the disqualification of 18 MLA’s loyal to TTV Dhinakaran. 
 
 The high court had reserved its order a couple of months ago after both sides challenged the disqualification. 
 
 Terming the state to be weak and run by a minority government, he said that the high court should not be in favour of the state government and requested the court to deliver the verdict at the earliest. 
 
 While saying delayed justice is denied justice, he stated that the verdict has significance because it is associated with the future of the people in the state. 
 
 “The verdict would make it crystal clear whether the AIADMK government has the majority and whether the state assembly elections would come along with the parliamentary election next year,” he said.
 
 Thirunavukkarasar is on a state wide tour to strengthen the party and improve cadre base. He said that the public rally would be conducted in every district headquarters apart from taking out van rallies to all the 234 constituencies. 
 
 Saying that a massive public rally would be organised to celebrate Rahul Gandhi’s elevation as the party head, Thirunavakkarasar said that Rahul Gandhi is slated to visit the state after the assembly election in Karnataka. 
 
 Thirunavakkarasar also said that he will take part in the nationwide ‘save the constitution’ campaign in New Delhi along with 500 people from the Scheduled Caste community.
 
 
