Vijayawada: The capital region will get a shot in the arm when   minister Nara   inaugurates   IT companies in   to generate about 1,795 jobs in next two or three years. The inauguration will happen on Wednesday at Managalagiri NRT Tech Park. In the initial phase, all the companies will create about 650 jobs. About four companies will be set up in Phcycare IT Park and rest will be in NTR Tech Park. 

 The highest number of jobs will be provided by Make My Clinic India Pvt Limited, which operates in Healthcare IT, with 300 jobs. The company is into healthcare product development. Another company, BVG India Limited, will provide 250 jobs. The company provides 108 health services to AP.
 
 Apart from this, Wednesday will be an eventful day with the IT minister also taking part in another programme to launch Tie Amaravati in Vijayawada. Indus Entrepreneurs is a non-profit organization founded in 1992 in the Silicon Valley. Currently, it has more than 13,000 members in 61 chapters across 18 countries. All the start-ups, incubators, accelerators and educational institutions in Andhra Pradesh are invited to participate in the event and make it a grand success. 
 
 According to the organisers, as per the 2017 edition of the NASSCOM-Zinnov report, India ranks third among global start-up ecosystems with more than 5,000 start-ups having over 1,000 new additions in 2017. One of the key developments in India’s start-up market over the past decade has been the development of large, robust Angel Investor ecosystems.
 
 “To enable the state of Andhra Pradesh to lead the collective dream of a new India and for the development of innovation, entrepreneurship and start-up culture, there is a strong need for a TiE chapter as well as an Angel Network,” the organisers said.
 
 Experts hope that with banks reining in all but the safest loans since the recession and venture capital firms now targeting less risky late-stage business start-ups, Angel Investors play a crucial role in backing young, fast-growth companies. The launch of TiE will be supportive to recent initiatives by the government to establish several incubators and accelerators, and setting up of a start-up fund.
 
 Graphic
 
 Other companies awaiting inauguration today
 
 Excellar Info Services
 
 BVG India Limited
 
 Pixcy .com
 
 DFI India pvt limited
 
 Script Bees India Pvt limited
 
 Satwtwica Technologies limited
 
 Signum Digital Networks Pvt Limited
 
 
