He may be known as a romcom hero, but the 
  actor, Kartik Aaryan, is extremely serious when it comes to fitness. “Six-packs are not necessary for an actor,” he cautions. “But since a lot of them have it, I made sure I have it too,” he smiles. 

  MY WORKOUT
 My trainers focus on different aspects of my body – keeping in mind what needs attention. They shock the body so that it doesn’t sink into monotony. It’s taken me six months to acquire six-packs! I do 200 push-ups daily and 500 counts of skipping. I do go for mountain-climbing as an exercise. I enjoy doing leg crunches, leg raises, cycling, crunches on the ball and crunches with weights. It helps in toning up the abs. This sculpted body has come after a lot of hard work.
 
 A WAY OF LIFE
 I’ve always been the sporty sort. During school and college in Gwalior, I used to play football and was the captain of the team. I also played table tennis at the state level. I enjoyed running and swimming. Four years ago, I was a martial arts enthusiast. Time and again, I play football with my Bollywood colleagues like Ranbir Kapoor, Ranveer Singh, Dino Morea, Arjun Kapoor and Abhishek Bachchan. Football is fun. It’s like cardio. I believe fitness is a way of life. Even when I’m outdoors, I make it a point to exercise. For instance, when we were shooting outdoors for Sonu ke Titu... there was no gym in the vicinity. So, I picked some heavy stones and used them like dumbbells. Having said that once a week, I take an off from exercise. Rest and restoration are equally important.
 
 FUELLING MY BODY
 I have huge sugar cravings. There was a time when I lived for desserts. I’d gorge on chocolates, brownies, ice-creams, lassi. But now I’ve learnt to deal with temptation. I feel immensely guilty if I’ve had French fries.
 You should never work out on an empty stomach. Being a vegetarian, I have to opt for a high protein diet to develop muscles. So, I take two scoops of protein powder before and after workout. I’ve cut out most carbs. Also sugar is a no-no. I take small meals every two hours. Quinoa sugar-free pancakes and quinoa salads are good options. I avoid milk completely. I make it a point to take vitamin C supplements regularly. Instead of tea or coffee, I have green tea thrice a day as it boosts metabolism. Moreover, I need eight hours of sleep regularly. I don’t compromise on that. 
 
 MY INSPIRATION
 Salman Khan is extremely fit. I salute him. He’s changed the way we look at fitness. Akshay Kumar and Shah Rukh Khan motivate me too. In Hollywood, I admire Chris Hemsworth. I loved Brad Pitt’s body in Fight Club. You need to keep yourself enthused to be like them. I read a lot about fitness online but have learnt to take all the information with a pinch of salt. Once I downloaded a fitness app and it strangely made me fatter. It’s better to trust yourself instead.
 
 FITNESS TIPS
 - It’s a myth that vegetarians need to take pills/steroids to build abs and muscles. There are other sources of protein too.
 - Crash dieting doesn’t help. Follow a diet plan and gym regime you can stick to.
 - Avoid sugar completely but include some salt in your diet.
 - Give yourself at least four months for the results to be evident.
 
 
 — Suman Sharma
 
 
 
