RAJKOT: Cracking the abduction and   of a four-year-old boy in Shapar, the city police on Tuesday arrested a young medicine shop owner, who was known to the victim’s family, for the crime.

 
 
 Police arrested Nikunjbharthi   (21), who had abducted Het Vadher on May 25 evening when he was playing outside his house in Shantidham Society of Shapar. During preliminary interrogation, Goswami told the police that he had abducted Het for ransom to repay Rs 1.5 lakh debt. 
 
 Goswami picked up Het on his scooter and brought him to the shop, which was very close to the boy’s house. From there, he took him in a car on Ribda Road. However, he realized that Het’s father, who was a labourer, won’t be able to pay the ransom. Goswami also feared that if he dropped Het home, he would reveal about the   to his parents. Goswami then strangled the child using dupatta and wires in the car itself. He then dumped the body near Gundasar village and fled.
 
 “Goswami had to repay Rs 1.5 lakh debt. He was in search for some soft target for kidnapping so that he could ask for ransom and repay the money. Two days before committing the crime, he started searching for duplicate sim card to make ransom call. He, however, failed to get one,” the police sources said.
 
 Neither could he get the ransom nor drop Het back home and therefore decided to killed him and returned to his medical shop, the police said.
 
 Police got vital clues from the closed circuit television (CCTV) camera installed at a paan shop near Het’s house and footages showed that he was taking the boy on his scooter.
 
 Goswami was engaged with a girl from Porbandar and they were to get married next year. Het’s father Haresh does painting work and his mother Jaya works in a factory. When Jaya returned from work, she did not find Het in the house. Soon, Het’s grandmother also returned from ‘satsang’ and they both began search for the missing boy.
 
 His parents also checked the CCTV footage of the paan shop in which the child was seen playing outside the house. Het was the only child of his parents. His elder brother died before six years in an accident. 
 
 
