NEW DELHI: The   ( ) conducted the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) 2018 on Sunday, May 6 at the 2255 examination centres in 132 cities. 

 
 According to the students, who appeared for the NEET 2018 exam today, the difficulty level of the paper was from easy to moderate. Most of the students felt that the paper turned out to be easy on them. They said that the paper was strictly from the CBSE prescribed syllabus and from the NCERT textbooks. 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, parents protested the biometric attendance taken at some centres during the examination, alleging that it wasted students' precious time.
 
 Anuradha Shah, a parent whose child appeared for NEET from a centre in Virar, said that biometric attendance was taken during the exams wasting students' time. It happened at one more centre in Malad, said parents. "They were not prepared well for the conduct of exams," added another parent. They have not taken any decision on filing a formal complaint with CBSE yet.
 
 Subrat Kumar Behera, who appeared the NEET at ODM public school in Bhubaneswar, said biology questions were easy for him. Physics was tough to answer.
 
 TN state board students who came out of NEET Exam centres say paper was moderate, easy. Some of them are from Cuddalore and Tiruvallur who travelled to Chennai.
 
 Another TN state board student from Tiruvallur, Arpita R, says paper went off easy and with no confusion. Muthumari another student says Physics part was tough. 
 
 A Pune student, Sanjit Joshi, said, "Physics was tough and lengthy. Biology and Chemistry were easy."
 
 
 Soubhagya Ranjan Swain from Bhubaneswar also said Biology and Chemistry were easy for him. He said some questions of previous years appeared this year.
 
 Most of the questions were based on CBSE syllabus and the question paper was tough compared to the previous year's paper, said Mohammed Askar, a student from Theni District in South Tamil Nadu who took up the test at Chennai.
 
 Many students from Tamil Nadu State board found the physics portion very tough. The biology and chemistry questions were comparatively easy.
 
 "Lot of questions in physics involved complex derivations and we had to use multiple formulae to solve every question," said M Deepak who took up the test at Ramana Vidyalaya School at Sholinganallur.
 
 Devaraj, trainer from a private coaching centre said that most of the city students did not answer physics questions to avoid negative marks and some rural students had attended with the hope that it would boost their scores.
 
 There were total 180 objective type questions of 720 marks. The students will get four marks for each correct answer. The paper was divided into four sections - Physics, Chemistry, Botany & Zoology. And each section had 45 questions.
 
 According to the students the Physics section was the most difficult followed by Chemistry and Biology (Botany and Zoology).
 
 Both Physics and Chemistry carried 180 marks each, while Biology (Botany & Zoology) was of 360 marks. 
 
 "Most of the questions were asked in the paper were from the NCERT textbooks," said a student. 
 
 The NEET examination is mandatory for admission to both undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses in India. AIIMS and JIPMER conduct their own test for undergraduate courses as they were kept out of the purview of the NEET. 
 
 This year as many 13.26 lakh students had enrolled themselves for the NEET Exam. Of the total, 5,80, 648 are male and 7,46, 076 candidates are females. 
 
 In 2018, the exam was conducted in 11 languages by CBSE. While English, Hindi and Urdu would be available at all exam centres, the 8 regional languages are limited to the 8 states. Last year the exam was conducted in 10 languages at 1921 centres in 103 cities. 
 
 
