UDHAGAMANDALAM: As a long-term solution for garbage collection and disposal in the town, the Ooty municipality has taken initiatives to set up a single spot-unit for segregation, shredding of plastic wastes and manufacturing of manure out of wet waste at the cost of Rs 40 lakh. A yard in   area has been identified for the purpose of segregation and shedding. 

 Earlier, the job was given to   on contract basis. The contract with ITC was cancelled by the municipality last week as its performance did not meet the understandings in the contract. 
 
 “ITC was assigned the job of segregation and disposal of garbage collected from the town a couple of years ago. However, a franchisee of ITC was doing the job. But a lot of complaints were received from the public,” municipal health officer Dr   told TOI. 
 
 Mahalakshmi Traders, who is into waste management for the past 10 years, has been roped in now for segregation and disposal of garbage collection in the town. Ooty municipality has entered into an agreement with the local player in this connection for five years, according to the official. “A sum of Rs 40 lakh has been sanctioned for setting up wet waste management unit with a capacity of 4 tonnes and expanding the yard in Kandal area,” said Murali Shankar. 
 
 The garbage collection by the municipality per day stands at around 38 metric tonnes, out of which 20 metric tonnes account for wet waste. “Hence, once we set up a unit for manufacturing manure out of wet waste, then the municipality will earn a sizable amount by selling the manure to farmers. That could well be utilized for setting up a garbage disposable unit with larger scale,” said the official.
 
 Also, around 12 tonnes recyclable plastics collected door to door per week by the municipal workers are sold to the private player and the amount is shared among the workers as incentive. “In this way the sanitary workers are encouraged,” said Murali Shankar. 
 
 Plastics which are not recyclable will be shredded and sent for road laying purpose. Apart from dry and wet wastes, the mixed wastes which are collected from the bins on the roadside go to the municipal garbage yard at Theettukkal, 7km from Ooty. “If this project succeeds, we will implement the system in a bigger way to segregate the mixed wastes too,” added the official.
 
 
