LUDHIANA: Bicycle manufacturers, are hopeful that the the new incentives announced in the Union budget would raise the demand for bicycles, particularly from the rural areas and thus would give a boost to their trade, in Ludhiana which is a hub of cycle industry.

 Businessmen are also of the view that this through this budget manufacturing sector is likely to boom and all industries across different sectors will get a push. 
 
 According to Pankaj Munjal, Chairman cum Managing director of Hero Cycles Ltd, “The most distinct features of the last full budget by this government are a heavy focus on infrastructure and rural economy. An outlay of over 5 lakh crore for roads, over Rs 2 lakh crore for Smart cities and Rs 2000 crore for improving agricultural markets are positive moves. Reviving a slowing rural economy will by impact help improve rural demand. From the perspective of the bicycle sector, this is a positive move as rural sector comprises a significant market for it”
 
 Meanwhile a day after the announcement of union budget by   minister  , micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) is still in shock as this budget proved to be a damp squib for them. However on the other hand corporates are of the view that inspite of having nothing in store for them this budget is positive for the country and economy as it is focussed on the rural development, upliftment of farmers and poor along with improving healthcare, infrastructure of the country. However the leading bicycle manufacturers of country majority of which are based in Ludhiana are hopeful that this budget for masses will benefit the bicycle industry as well as demand for bicycles from rural areas will pick up due to the measures announced by the government.
 
 Photo Quotes 
 
 “This is a great budget from point of view of our country as most of the announcements made are development oriented with focus on rural, agriculture, healthcare and infrastructure sectors. Finance minister has done a great job by launching schemes like free electricity for underprivileged and outlining of Rs14.34 lakh crore for creation of livelihood and infrastructure in rural areas is highly appreciable. I think with prosperity in rural areas the demand for bicycles will definitely pick up in coming days” -  , Joint Managing Director, Avon Cycles
 
 “The allocation of Rs 16,000 crore for electrification of rural areas would have a positive impact in creation of the electric vehicular ecosystem in the long term. Domestic manufacturing and “Make in India” will trigger job creation. The special scheme to resolve the challenge of air pollution in the National Capital Region is appreciable and is in accordance to our objective of promoting clean mobility. This year’s budget has further consolidated on these efforts and is indicative of futuristic plans of the government to encourage progressive economic growth within the country" - Pankaj Munjal, Chairman cum Managing Director, Hero Cycles
 
 
