MUMBAI: For nearly a year, UP resident   (31) lived with a tumour that was growing at the back of his head. Weighing 1.8kg, it almost resembled a “second head” that gave him excruciating headaches and robbed him of his vision bit-by-bit. But no local hospital had a solution.

 Last week,   at civic-run BYL   Hospital ended his agony by excising the tumours, which they are touting as one of the largest to be removed in the world. Pal lost his vision in both eyes but doctors hope he will regain it once the healing starts. Dr  , head of neurosurgery at Nair, said, “We have looked up medical literature from all over the world and it is the largest to be excised successfully. Such large tumours are rare and a surgical challenge,” he said, adding that the last big tumour he operated upon weighed 1.4kg at K EM Hospital in 2002.
 
  
  
 Dr Nadkarni explained that the tumour grew aggressively over the last few months. “It’s difficult to say where the tumour originated but it infiltrated the skull and continued to grow under the scalp skin. Only 10% of the tumour was inside the brain, and that perhaps kept him alive for so long. The vision loss has probably been caused by pressure on the optic nerves due to the growth,” the doctor said. He added that a team of seven surgeons and anesthetists carried out the surgery. Pal needed around 11 units of blood.
 
 Pal arrived here two weeks back with his wife, Manju. She said Pal’s tryst with ailments started about four years ago. “He was diagnosed with cancer on his right leg which was treated with six cycles of chemotherapy. A year ago he started getting headaches. Doctors told us the cancer had returned. He even went in for two chemo cycles but discontinued treatment after he couldn’t cope with its side-effects. The tumour grew in the meantime,” she said. Manju said at least three hospitals in UP, including some big medical colleges, termed the case ‘inoperable’. “We have two sons, aged 4 and 8. He wanted to do everything to save him,” she said.
 
 Dr Nadkarni said the family didn’t have any medical reports to show he was treated for cancer. “We sent his tumour for biopsy. The reports are expected next week,” he said. 
 
 
