Ghaziabad: A simmering tension is palpable among residents of Ghaziabad’s  , where a 11-year-old girl was rescued from a   by a Delhi Police team three days ago.

 The cleric managing the madrassa, Maulana Ghulam Shahid, has fled home with his family since the April 23 raid. Every “outsider” is viewed with suspicion by the residents, who cannot recollect any instance of communal tension in the recent past.
 
 The madrassa, located off GT Road near Arthala, functions from a two-storied building in which the ground-floor hall is used for prayers. 
 
 Discarded items such as books, cardboard boxes, mats, and mattresses, lay strewn on the first floor directly above the prayer hall. A water tank and a revolving chair were the only items on the terrace, which can be accessed using a narrow flight of stairs.
 
 The madrassa caretaker, Giyas-ud-din, who is aged around 65 years, was the only person found in the building when this correspondent visited the colony on Wednesday. Sitting in a dinghy room, he said: “We don’t have a clear idea about the events. A police team raided the madrassa on the evening of April 23, with directions taken from a teenaged boy. They found a girl from the floor above and took her with them. The girl had apparently run away with a teenaged boy who had kept her at the madrassa for a day. The boy was a student of the madrassa but did not live in this colony. The madrassa has been running for several years but no such incident was reported in the past,” said Giyas-ud-din.
 
 The house of Maulana Ghulam Shahid, who is said to be around 40 years old, is located in a lane ahead of the madrassa. A couple of men whisper among themselves near a provision store, casting furtive glances. “The women of this colony have expressed solidarity with the family of the girl, who now live in Delhi,” said Dharmendra Jha, the store owner.
 
 The only other noteworthy building in the colony is a Shiva temple belonging to the   of Mahant Narayan Giri. The rear door of the temple opens to a lane where both the cleric and the minor girl lived till her family shifted to Delhi on April 18. Since the raid, the Hindu Raksha Dal has been demanding the madrassa be sealed. They submitted a memorandum to the Ghaziabad district administration on Wednesday in this regard.
 
 “The temple contains the samadhi of Bibhuti Giri, the first disciple of Mahant Narayan Giri.   himself had been strangled to death on the premises of this temple around 13 years ago,” said Rup Giri, the temple’s caretaker. Mahant Narayan Giri is himself known for his proximity to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath.
 
 Those living in the lane behind the temple said the girl had been reported missing barely three days ago from her new house in Delhi. “The maulana was living here with his wife and two kids. We have never had any communal tension in our area. We have heard the boy who had allegedly kidnapped her is a minor too,” a woman said.
 
 Residents said the cleric was not in the colony and had been travelling between April 16 and 23 to raise funds for a religious event. “We had a massive power cut on the evening the police finally raided the madrassa. It is suspected the girl had been brought to the madrassa by her abductors under the cover of darkness. The cleric might have been out of town, but the onus is on him if any untoward incident happens in the madrassa he manages,” said Furqaan Chaudhary, a local hakeem.
 
 
