PATNA: More than 800 teachers have been served show-cause notices on Thursday and over 500 booked across the state by the district education officers (DEOs) for not evaluating answer-sheets of Matriculation (Class X) and Intermediate (Class XII) examinations conducted by the   ( ). That has delayed the evaluation process. 

 Patna DEO Jyoti Kumar lodged an FIR with the Bahadurpur police station against 114 secondary and senior secondary teachers, who did not join the evaluation duty at 15 centres (eight for Class X and seven for Class XII) in the state capital. The evaluation of answer-sheets of Class X started on March 13 and of Class XII from March 5.
 
 Bahadurpur police station SHO K K Gupta said the FIR was lodged against 114 teachers, including women, under various non-bailable sections of IPC. “According to the complaint, majority of teachers, who have been appointed as head examiners and co-examiners, did not turn up at the centres despite several reminders sent to them,” the SHO said.
 
 According to police sources, the FIR was lodged against 16 teachers of College of Commerce, Arts and Science, 13 of the JD Women’s College, 12 of B D College, four each from   and Arvind Mahila College at Patna. The FIR was also lodged against teachers of R K D College, Ganga Devi Mahila College, RPM College, Government Girls’ School at Gardanibagh, RLSY College, GD Patliputra High School and a few other colleges, sources said.
 
 “The board was forced to take such extreme step because of further delay in evaluation process,” BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said on Friday, adding that almost 92% of the answer sheets of Class XII had already been evaluated but only 65% copies of Matric exams could be evaluated so far.
 
 According to sources, the BSEB lodged FIRs under the Board Examination Acts (1981). “Unless we get full cooperation from senior and experienced teachers of the colleges in the evaluation work, the BSEB cannot bring a desired transformation in the examination system and maintain transparency in publication of the results,” a board official said.
 
 
