BHUBANESWAR: Union minister Smriti Irani will take on chief minister and BJD president Naveen Patnaik on the campaign trail in Bijepur on Tuesday as electioneering for the February 24 bypoll reaches its fever pitch. 

 Taking the fight head-on, Naveen will hold a six-km roadshow from Barpali to Kumbhari village passing through the bylanes of Dhirpur, the native place of BJP contestant  . He will be accorded receptions at Dhirpur and   on the way before addressing a public meeting at Kumbhari, where he will seek votes for his party nominee Rita Sahu, BJD sources said. A vehicle is being specially decked up for Naveen.
 
 Leading the BJP bandwagon the same day, Smriti will also address a public meeting at Barpali. BJP roping in Smriti in Barpali is being seen as an attempt by the saffron party to woo the weavers since Smriti holds the textiles portfolio. 
 
 Barpali is the epicentre of the world famous Sambalpuri handloom and has the state's largest handloom cluster of around 25,000 weavers and textile workers. The Union minister will also address the public at Bijepur and Gaisilat.
 
 While BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma said Smriti's campaigning will further boost the party's prospects,   member Prasanna Acharya said being the minister in-charge of textiles she will only rub salt on the wounds of weavers because the Centre imposed 5% goods and services tax (GST) on handloom products.
 
 Naveen will spend the night at Bargarh and campaign the next day at Bijepur and Barpali, while Union minister   will join the BJP brigade on Wednesday. Union ministers and state BJP leaders Jual Oram and Dharmendra Pradhan, who are already campaigning in Bijepur would continue hitting the trail till last day of campaigning on February 22, the BJP sources said.
 
 The Congress, which was earlier marred by infighting, has manged to bring its state top brass together to canvass for party nominee Pranaya Sahu. Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) president Prasad Harichandan, leader of opposition Narasingha Mishra, former Union minister Srikant Jena, former OPCC presidents   and Niranjan Patnaik have been campaigning for the Congress.
 
 Though there are 13 contestants in the fray in the ensuing bypoll, which was required after the death of sitting Congress MLA Subal Sahu on August 22, the triangular fight is among the BJP, the BJD and the Congress. The newly-elected MLA will have hardly one year-term, but the three parties are leaving no stone unturned to put the best possible show because its outcome will be perceived to be a precursor to the result of the next Vidhan Sabha elections due in 2019.
 
 
