Guntur: Special   set up by the forest department along the Andhra Pradesh coast to conserve Olive Ridley turtles will be in place till the end of May, wildlife officials said.

 The hatcheries have helped conserve thousands of   till now since the beginning of the nesting season, which was delayed this year due to unknown reasons.
 
 While the nesting season normally begins around November-December, the turtles are now visiting the coast for laying eggs only in February. This is leading to a delay in hatching season. Sources said over two lakh eggs have been hatched and the turtles released into the Bay of Bengal. 
 
 “We are yet to get the exact numbers as the nesting season was delayed for various reasons. We are however happy as we could conserve a large number of sea turtles,” deputy conservator of forests (DCF-wildlife) Naga Malleswari said.
 
 The number of eggs laid by Olive Ridleys has slightly come down in the current season due to the delay in nesting season. The nesting centre at Suryalanka in Guntur district conserved around 4,000-5,000 eggs last season but could protect only around 3,000 this season.
 
 “The purpose of taking special measures to conserve the eggs and hatch them is to protect the overall population of Olive Ridleys. We have succeeded in increasing their population over the years,” said Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) Mallikarjuna Rao.
 
 The forest department deployed field-level officials at vantage points along the coast exclusively to guard the eggs. Beat officers from the forest department wildlife wing spent many nights in the last four months on the coast. Fishermen were banned from fishing within 3-8 km of the coast as it was found to be harmful for the turtles in the safe zone. 
 
 Olive Ridleys come out of the waters and lay eggs in dug-out nests on beaches at midnight. Forest officials track the nests and shift all eggs to hatcheries to save them from dogs and wild animals. Young ones are released into the waters after hatching at breeding centres.
 
 The forest department has also roped in NGOs to take part in the conservation of sea turtles in many districts. At least two to four hatcheries have been set up in each of all nine coastal districts.
 
 
