Walking on the footpaths around   in the heart of the city is not easy. Pedestrians have to dodge many obstacles like electricity distribution boxes, light poles, chamber lids, road signs and encroachments.

 Rucha Gaekwad, a resident of Karve Road, said such obstacles prevent her from walking with her baby stroller. “A footpath along Karve Road seems decent enough to use a stroller. However, the condition of the pavements in the other parts of the city is pathetic. It becomes risky to use stretches of footpaths which have electric poles or distribution point boxes, especially during the monsoon,”   said.
 
 
  
  
 
 Sadanand Prabhu, a resident of Narayan Peth, said most PMPML bus stops are on footpaths. The bus stop outside Lal Mahal is an ideal example where the stop has cornered almost the entire footpath. Pedestrians have to walk on the road the road while passing along the bus stop,   said.
 
 This is a common refrain across the city where footpaths,
 
 a pedestrian’s right of way and refuge, are never a cakewalk.
 
 Citizens from several areas said though the authorities recently changed the tiles on the pavements, they did not move the structures to ensure barrier-free walking for citizens. The hassles for pedestrians have continued.
 
 Prabha Dongre, a resident of Model Colony, who walks to   once a week, said the footpaths are extremely uneven in height. “ As a senior citizen, I cannot climb ahigh footpath. Suddenly, I find myself face to face with a distribution point box with no way to go around it. I am forced to step on the road and face the speeding vehicles,” she said.
 
 The Urban Street Design for Pune has suggested unobstructed walking zones and footpaths and the way to achieve this would be to accommodate elements like trees, street lights and street furniture within the multi-utility belt. The multi-utility belt is a designated space to accommodate parking, hawkers, bus stops, trees, auto stands to keep the footpaths free of encroachment. More than 75% of the respondents to a survey agreed that this concept will work well, but sceptics who doubt its functionality are concerned about enforcement issues.
 
 Walkers are not convinced the city will ever have impediment free footpaths. The civic body has installed steel bollards on footpaths to safeguard the space for pedestrians. But two-wheeler riders in the hurry to get ahead in the traffic, smash them down.
 
 The civic body is among the violators building toilets, bus stops and reading sheds, or permitting kiosks, small eateries to come up on pavements. Pedestrians are angry that all these facilities come up on footpaths and the civic body must find fixed places for public utilities instead of permitting them to function on footpaths.
 
 Light poles top the list of obstructions on footpaths. In some places, poles are installed in such a way that there is little space for people. The civic body will work in coordination with the agencies to shift obstacles.
 
 Road department officials said steps are being taken to move structures obstructing pavements to one end to provide maximum space for pedestrians.
 
 “We have told the power utility to shift light poles to the end of footpaths. The poles have been moved from many pavements. The administration is in touch with the power utility for shifting the poles and the distribution point boxes,” an official said.
 
 
