GHAZIABAD: Former   MLA Amarpal Sharma’s family is asking why the National Security Act ( ) has been invoked against him, alleging he was being victimised by the BJP regime. But the administration said it was satisfied with the police assessment that Sharma could pose a law-and-order problem if he was allowed to walk free. 

 Sharma, who represented   in the assembly, has been in Dasna jail since October 2017 for his alleged involvement in the murder of Gajendra Bhati, a BJP functionary in  . His bail plea was rejected by the district court in December 2017. 
 
 On Tuesday, the district administration invoked the NSA against him.
 
 “The NSA was invoked so that he remains in jail for the next 12 months. The timing of the legal action is suspect because he was planning to apply for bail in the high court,” Sharma’s wife Mohini told TOI. “He was framed in the murder case just a couple of months ahead of the urban local body polls. The ruling party wants to keep him at bay because of his political clout. It is using the police and administration to clip his wings and systematically end his political career. It is a political witch hunt.”
 
 Police had announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on Sharma when he was absconding after being named as an accused in Bhati’s murder. “Town criers were sent to our house to humiliate us. The NSA is invoked against those who pose a threat to the security of the nation,” said Mohini.
 
 Ghaziabad DM Ritu Maheshwari said Sharma does pose a security threat. “The NSA was invoked after I was satisfied that Sharma poses a threat. The act has been invoked on the basis of a report from the police station in Khoda,” she said.
 
 The Khoda police station has reported there are more than half a dozen criminal cases against Sharma, including attempt to murder, trespassing and disruption of peace. The charges have, however, been vehemently denied by Sharma’s lawyers and his family members.
 
 “The NSA was invoked in the backdrop of the murder of Gajendra Bhati. Public peace was disrupted in the area after the incident owing to Sharma. It is perceived public peace may be further be disrupted if his presence is allowed in the area again,” Ghaziabad SSP Hari Narayan Singh said.
 
 
