BHOPAL: With a plot reminiscent of a Bollywood potbo iler wherein first a journalism student was booked for extorting money from young  . A few days later, things changed upside down and the MLA got booked for allegedly raping the same girl. 

 There are serious allegations against a woman additional SP ranked official of crime branch for helping Hemant Katare, as per the FIR. DIG, Bhopal Dharmendra Choudhary said the charges would be first investigated before acting against the MLA. On allegations against ASP (crime branch) Rashmi Mishra, DIG Choudhary said, "They are being investigated."
 
 The girl, who is presently lodged in the jail, filed a written complaint with jail superintendent addressing to DIG Bhopal Dharmendra Choudhary. In her complaint, she alleged she came in contact with Hemant Katare, a resident of Bharti Niketan, Govindpura, and MLA from Ater constituency in Bhind district, on September 2017 in connection with some official work. She sought help from Katare and sought an appointment.
 
 During that period, Katare allegedly met her and took her to his gym located in Arera Colony where he raped her, she said in her complaint. Katare clicked some obscene photographs and videos, she alleged.
 
 He then threatened her saying he would kill her and her family if she revealed the incident to anyone and raped her several times at different locations. He even took her to Delhi thrice and raped her, she alleged.
 
 When Katare got engaged to another girl, she requested him to leave her, but instead of doing so, he started blackmailing her. She alleged that Katare along with ASP Rashmi Mishra conspired and called her to a cafe in MP Nagar from where Katare took her in a car and framed her in false extortion case at crime branch. She alleged she was made to sign blank stamp papers at the crime branch. 
 
 She accused ASP Mishra of shooting her video in which she was forced to make statement calling her previous video stating as prank. She requested the DIG to probe ASP Mishra's involvement. Acting on her complaint, the rape case was registered against Katare at Mahila Thana.
 
 ASP crime Rashmi Mishra, however denied allegations and said, "Nothing of the sort happened. It is not possible. The action was taken on basis of evidence against her. Police do not act in such a manner."
 
 In the second FIR registered at Bajaria police station, mother of accused girl, a resident of Bajaria locality, alleged that on January 27, three men came to her house and told her they were from crime branch. They took her in a SUV where Katare was present and all of them pointed guns at her and threatened to read a written statement and shot a video of it. Acting on her complaint a case on charges of abduction and extortion was registered against Katare and three others at Bajaria police station.
 
 ASP (Zone I) Dharamveer Yadav said investigations are on in case. Attempts to contact Hemant Katare on phone proved futile.
 
 
