LUCKNOW:The reintroduction of percentage system replacing the grading system by   in class X doubled the joy of high-scorers who believe that the previous system did not measure their potential accurately.

 
 After eight years, CBSE reintroduced the marking system for class X this year, doing away with cumulative grade point average (CGPA) system.
 
 “We are fortunate to have been awarded marks and not grades. The biggest problem in the CGPA system was that it was difficult to differentiate who performed better as all scoring between 91and 100 were awarded A grade,” said 97.6% scorer Jhanvi Tripathi of Lucknow Public School, Gomtinagar.
 
 Students also said that percentage awarded on marksheets gave them a higher sense of achievement compared to CGPA.
 
 “The biggest drawback of the grading system is that it puts everyone in the same bracket. The difference of 2 marks or 5 marks does not count. We are lucky that it was changed in our time,” said 94.7% scorer   of St Mary’s Inter College.
 
 “Percentage helps in developing healthy competition. The difference of percentage can be a deciding factor for being shortlisted for a job after graduation if academic profile is assessed,” said 97.6% scorer Anjali Singh of   School.
 
 Waving his scorecard in the air and teasing his sister,   of SKD Academy celebrated his 97.4%.
 
 “Last year, my sister   was in the last batch to be awarded CGPA. She said we would enjoy our success more than her because we would have our exact percentage. And that is definitely true,” he said.
 
 Another student from the same school,   Mishra, said, “I am happy that marks are back. In all other boards, percentages are awarded. The grade would not have helped us compete with other boards. The grading system is also taken lightly.” Prabhavi has scored 97.4%.
 
 Students also said marks help in analysing and preparing for class XII.
 
 “With grades, we would not have known in which stream we performed the best. Based on class X marks, it is easier to choose the subject combination in class XII,” said 96.8% scorer Shreya Pandey of RLB.
 
