Nagpur: Farm activists feel agriculture would be core of the budget this time. There has been much turbulence in the hinterland, especially the central Indian region and government will have to come up with major sops for farmers. BJP also desperately needs to please   keeping in account elections next year, activists said.

 “A lot is expected for agriculture. There has not been much to cheer for the farmers during the current regime. If the BJP wants to prevent losses in elections, then farmers’ issues need to be at the forefront,” said Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM). VNSSM is a state government think-tank on farmers’ welfare in agrarian crisis-hit areas of Vidarbha and Marathwada.
 
 Tiwari said, “It is the last chance for government to come up with a pro-farmer policy. Else, it would be blamed for not keeping the poll promises of 2014. The minimum support price (MSP) on agriculture produce needs to be fixed by adding 50% margin of profit to the cost of production. The subsidies which have been done away with need to be brought back. The government is mistaken to consider farmers can survive in the open market without any support.”
 
 There are heavy subsidies even in developed countries like US and Europe. There has to be an approach on giving direct subsidies on fertilizer and other farm inputs and globalization in agriculture needs to be discouraged, he said.
 
 Amitabh Pawde, an activist from the city, said even as a higher MSP has been proposed by the state government, the Centre has declared a lower amount. The gap needed to be filled.
 
 “Demand for fruits can be created by including it in the menu for mid-day meals in schools. Similarly, to boost cotton demand cotton fabric should be made mandatory for all government uniforms. A comprehensive crop insurance should be available and agriculture-based weather stations need to be set up at taluka level,” said Pawde.
 
 “A massive effort is needed for getting a proper title for their holdings to the farmers. Such efforts are being undertaken in countries like Peru. Availing benefits of a number of government schemes including loans and subsidies depends on the land title held by a farmer. Lack of proper documentation prevents a large section from getting the benefits. NGOs can be provided funds for getting titles of farmers cleared,” said Moin Qazi, a development finance expert.
 
 Qazi said funds needed to be allocated for land rejuvenation also. A major side-effect of the green revolution is that the soil quality had come down which was affecting the yield. Since it was beyond the farmers’ means, government should make efforts on soil rejuvenation, he said.
 
 (in a nutshell)
 
 The MSP needs to increased by including 50% profit margin
 
 Bring back farm input subsidies
 
 Fund allocation for soil rejuvenation
 
 Funds to give proper title for farm holdings
 
 Discourage globalisation in agriculture
 
 
