CHANDIGARH: More than 94% of government land has been encroached upon in Mohali, and what may startle the top echelons is that its value may well exceed the total amount the debt-ridden state faces today. About 2,435 acres of government land out of 2,585 acres is under illegal occupation in 15 villages of Mohali, with a value more than the existing debt of Punjab that stands roughly at over Rs 2.1 lakh crore

 
  
 
 These revelations were made by local bodies minister   after the meeting of cabinet sub-committee here on Saturday. The committee, headed by Sidhu to ensure maintenance of government assets and land, has sought records of all government-owned land from boards, departments, corporations and other institutions.
 
 The figures regarding Mohali were given by former DGP  , who was appointed by the Punjab and Haryana high court to probe the assets of government or higher officials of Punjab in and around Chandigarh. Giving village wise break-up, he pointed out 90 acres out of 128 acres in Majri, 20 out of 20 acres in Palampur, all 95 acres in Kansal, 299 acres out of 318 acres in Paraul, all 16 acres in Sialba, all 945 acres in  , all 177 acres in Hoshiarpur, all 15 acres in Dhakora Khurd, all 86 acres in Chandpur, all 5 acres in Mullanpur Garibdas, all 23 acres in  , all 307 acres in Nada, all 14 acres in   and 259 acres out of 352 acres in Bhankharpur are under illegal occupation. He said 22,000 kanal land in Karoran and 16,113 kanal land in Nada are illegally encroached upon.
 
 Shekhar said a total of 5 to 6 lakh acres of government land is under illegal occupation all over the state. During the meeting, the report of Justice Kuldip Singh, which seconded the disclosures made in the report, also came up for discussion.
 
 Later, Sidhu told TOI that efforts will be made to restore the possession of land not only in Mohali but all over the state for which a committee headed by Justice S S Saron was being formed, while blaming the former SAD-BJP government for not taking any initiative for restoration of government land. Sidhu said the committee would advise the cabinet sub-committee.
 
 
