CHENNAI:   is one of the 15 states in which services sector accounts for 50% or more of the GSVA (gross state value added) as per the 2018 Economic Survey report presented in the Parliament on Monday. Tamil Nadu is in the 13th place in terms of services sector’s contribution to GSVA.

 Services sector comprises tourism, real estate, information technology, hospital, diagnostic services and telecommunication.
 
 In the 32 states and Union Territories (UTs), going by the data released by the   (CSO), though the services sector is dominant in 15 states, there is wide variation in terms of share and growth of services in GSVA. Delhi and Chandigarh are at the top where services sector accounts for over 80% share in their GVSA. Sikkim is at the bottom with 31.7%, said the Economic Survey.
 
 As regards the growth of services sector’s contribution to GSVA, Bihar is at the top and   at the bottom with 14.5% and 7% growth respectively in 2016-17.
 
 Tamil Nadu, with a wide manufacturing base, had long been dependent on it for GSVA growth. But in recent years, information technology overtook most other sectors. Sluggish growth of the manufacturing sector has not helped either.
 
 “Services sector’s contribution to Tamil Nadu’s GVSA is not able to match that of Karnataka or Delhi owing to two reasons. First, the size of the total GVSA matters. If industry and agriculture contribute sizeably, then the share of services sector will be less compared to that of Karnataka and Delhi,” said an economist.
 
 The second reason is lowering of public spending and contribution from the individual units within the services sector. “Construction sector in Tamil Nadu has not been performing well in the last two years. There are many reasons, but the main one is the high guideline value. This is reflected in the 2016-17 data of the economic survey,” said the economist.
 
 There are hints of a turnaround in services sector in general. “Some available indicators of the different services in India for 2016-17 show reasonably good performance of tourism, aviation, and telecom sectors. The limited data available for 2017-18 also indicate good performance of these three sectors,” said the survey. 
 
