If you think only Maharashtrians celebrate  , you haven’t seen the Mauritian students from the city welcoming Marathi New Year. No, they are not NRIs who have settled in Mauritius, but are originally from there. With roots in India, owing to their Konkani connect, they celebrate various Maharashtrian festivals. On the occasion of Gudi Padwa, we spoke to a group of girls from Mauritius who have created a home away from home with traditional celebrations in the city.

  
  
 
 “This is my first Gudi Padwa in Pune,” shares Keshika Narayen, adding, “In Mauritius, it is a traditional affair where we put up the Gudi and sing traditional puja songs. Since I am celebrating it for the first time in Pune, I wanted to know all the details about the festival and asked my mother about the same over phone.” The student from   is set to don traditional clothes and co mplete the celebration with a visit to the temple. “I am going to celebrate the festival with my Mauritian friends. Going to the temple on this day is an important ritual for us and we are going to visit the   to offer prayers,” she informs.
 
 For  , a student of Modern College, Ganeshkhind, this will be her second Gudi Padwa in the city. After celebrating last year, she and her friends decided to make it an annual affair. She says, “Puneites celebrate festivals with their family. That unity appeals to me and inspires me to celebrate festivals here.”
 
  
  
 
 The Gudi Padwa celebration here is similar to that in Mauritius, considering the fact that many of our ancestors were Konkani.” However, variations exist. “A special item, neem chutney, is prepared to be offered as prasad on this day. Of course, we get to eat sweets too and I make it a point to prepare something special at home,” adds Hanshika. This year, the youngster is going to prepare besan laddoos.
 Gudi Padwa is all about going traditional, be it in terms of dressing or food, and the students are making sure they follow the practice.  , a first year Arts student from Fergusson College, says, “In our country, we welcome the New Year with cultural programs, including Lavni performances, gondhal and Ganesh vandana, organised specially by the   (MMMF) for Gudi Padwa. The main puja procedure is similar to that of Maharashtrians. We wear kashti (a traditional nine-yard sari, referred to as kashta back home), nath (nose ring), gajra (a jasmine garland) and perform the puja. Initially, I was doubtful if I would be able to arrange the puja items here, but Hanshika helped me get them.” Recalling her childhood memories of the celebrations in Mauritius, Shika adds, “These traditions were passed on to me by my grandparents and following them while celebrating overseas is a treasurable experience.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Neem chutney is prepared using neem, salt, sugar, pepper or chillies, tamarind and apple. These ingredients describe the various tastes of life and Mauritians begin their New Year by eating them in the form of prasad.
 
  
  
 The Gudi in Mauritius consists of a bamboo stick tied with a saffron cloth and a flower garland, a string of mango leaves, neem leaves and topped with a tambya (steel/copper kalash). The saffron cloth is tied with handful of rice, some sugar, paak (supari) and 1.25 Mauritian Rupees.
 
  
  
 
 —Moumita.Chakraborty@timesgroup.com
 
