BHUBANESWAR: Employees of the Government of India Text Book Press (GITBP), Bhubaneswar, on Saturday urged the Centre not to close the printing press and shift the staff to other presses of the country. 

 On September 20 last year, the Union cabinet chaired by Prime Minister   had given its nod for rationalization or merger of 17 Government of India Presses (GIPs) into five GIPs at Rashtrapati Bhavan, Minto Road and Mayapuri in New Delhi, Nashik in Maharashtra and   in Kolkata.
 
 The cabinet had also decided that land measuring 56.67 acres of the GITBPs at Chandigarh, Bhubaneswar and Mysore will be returned to the respective state governments. Employees would be transferred to the main presses. 
 
 Manoranjan Mohanty, secretary of the Government of India Text Book Press Karmachari Union, said the press was set up on 100 acres of land in the capital city in 1975 with the help of foreign governments in order to print textbooks for students of different schools and colleges of the country. "It is a matter of pride for us. But the Centre has decided to close the unit. We have requested several political leaders, Union ministers and state government to take up the issue with the Centre, but nothing has been done so far," he added. Altogether 37 employees are working in the press now. "We urge the Centre to turn it into a skill development training centre to provide skill training to youths interested in printing technology," he said. 
 
 Mohanty said the East Coast Railway (ECoR) has taken 40 acres of land from the press. "We also request the Railways to run the printing press and use the land for its development," he added. 
 
 N K Dey, officer-in-charge of the GITBP Bhubaneswar, said the Union cabinet has taken a decision to close the unit here and absorb the employees at GIP in Kolkata. "I cannot comment on this issue after the Union cabinet's decision," he added. 
 
 The employees' Union said the Centre had tried to shut down the press twice in 2002 and 2007, but it survived somehow. Now the press prints application forms for different government jobs. "The government is closing down the press without any strong reason," said the Union. 
 
 The UNESCO Conference held in Paris in 1968 had passed a resolution for the promotion of literacy and pursuit of education in India. For this, the West German government had offered a gift of printing press to India. It was decided to have three Indo-German Textbooks Printing Presses at Chandigarh, Bhubaneswar and Mysore. Besides, the foreign government had provided technical support and training facility to run the presses.
 
 
