Ludhiana: A scuffle broke out between workers of the Congress and the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) at a house in Model Town Extension here on Sunday, following which leaders on either side levelled allegations of intimidation and violence against each other.

 Even as leaders of the two parties traded charges, police did not register a case and dismissed the entire incident as a “minor issue”.
 
 While LIP leader and MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains said Congress workers entered the house of one Ashok Singla and threatened him and his leaders with firearms, Congress leader Kanwaljeet Karwal said they had reached the house for a meeting which had been arranged earlier and Bains and his party workers pushed them out, and all they tried to do was defend themselves. 
 
 Bains claimed that he was sitting in Singla’s house when Gopi, son of the Congress candidate from Ward 49, came there. “Singla asked Gogi to leave. But, after some time, Gogi and Congress’s halqa in charge for Atam Nagar, Kanwaljeet Karwal, returned along with some workers of their party. They were armed with a revolver,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Karwal said they had a meeting fixed at Singla’s house at 4pm. “But when we reached there, Bains was already there. I don’t know what he was doing there, even as he knew we had a meeting at the same house. After we saw him, we came out. However, his party workers tried to push us out and we tried to save ourselves, as anyyone would in such circumstances,” Karwal said.
 
 Bains claimed that Congress leaders and workers indulged in vandalism inside the drawing room and caught hold of his neck and manhandled him. “After the incident, I phoned Punjab state election commissioner Jagpal Sandhu, while AAP MLA and leader of opposition in assembly Sukhpal Singh Khaira called the DGP and informed him,” Bain added.
 
 Bain demanded that the deputy commissioner, who is overseeing the entire poll process as the district election officer, be transferred out of Ludhana to ensure fair polls. “We are also filing a petition into the matter in high court,” said Bains.
 
 On the other hand, the Congress claimed that the LIP leader tried to intimidate them. “We don’t indulge in such stunts and are not here for goonda activities. We want to change society. The allegations that any of us was carrying a weapon are lies; we don’t have any such thing,” Karwal said, adding that Bains was “resorting” to such tactics as he was staring at defeat.
 
 When contacted, Ludhiana police commissioner Rajender Dhoke said they acted professionally in the case. “The house owner said it was a minor issue and he did not want to lodge a complaint. So we are not registering a case. There was no violence,” Dhoke said. He added that no one was injured.
 
 BOX
 
 Khaira warns of protest
 
 In a statement released here on Sunday, AAP MLA and leader of opposition in Punjab assembly Sukhpal Khaira condemned “violence unleashed” upon Simmerjit Bains by “Congress goondas” led by Kamaljit Karwal in Ludhiana. Khaira said the Congress government was resorting to intimidating its political opponents through violent means. Khaira said he had spoken to DGP Suresh Arora and Ludhiana police commissioner Rajender Dhokhe and “warned” them of a protest if they did not arrest the “Congress goondas”.
 
 
