MADURAI: The number of seizures of gold and foreign currencies at the   has seen a steep rise in the last few months.The   ( ) of the customs department has seized gold worth approximately Rs 3.7 crore mainly smuggled from Sri Lanka, Singapore and Dubai and foreign currency worth more than Rs 30 lakh.

 
 The sudden spurt is attributed to invigorated AIU. While, not many seizure incidents were reported by AIU in the last couple of years, at least 20 incidents have been reported in the last four months alone. But, the baffling aspect for customs officials is the innovative and extreme ways undertaken by smugglers to get away with the contraband.
 
 Recently, AIU led by assistant commissioner, A   caught a woman smuggling 1.4kg of gold mixed with rubber clay in order to pass through the scanning machine and metal detectors without any trace. She had concealed the clay inside the sanitary napkin that she was using.
 
 It was not the first time the customs officials in Madurai came across incidents involving rubber clay. Two more incidents involving the same modus operandi were reported recently. They were caught while carrying the gold dust mixed clay inside footwear and concealed inside a belt worn for spine support.
 
 “We were shocked to know that there is a factory functioning in an African country to manufacture clay mixed with gold dust. At a time when vigilance is strengthened at all international airports, smugglers are finding innovative ways to evade the security,” an official said.
 
 “When rubber clay is used for smuggling, it becomes almost impossible to catch the contraband. The only way is to strengthen the sources, who provide tip-offs,” said the official. All the three incidents involving rubber clay were caught only because of tip-offs from intelligence sources. “Otherwise, it would be embarrassing to check all the passengers when there is no indication in the scanning systems,” said custom sources.
 
 There have also been incidents where gold bars concealed inside electronic items like microwave oven, home theatre speaker and even inside suitcases have been recovered. In one of the cases, blades made of gold were given aluminium coating and packed in such a way that one gold blade was added in each packet in the bundle carried by the smuggler. At least 250g of gold was seized in the incident.
 
 Sources said that smugglers use ‘kuruvi’ as transporters, who are paid anything between Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000 for every trip. People mostly from Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Trichy and Thanjavur districts are lured into the illegal activity. “Gold is smuggled into India, where the demand and price is higher lured by the good margin of money due to the price difference between various countries. The kingpin may get anything between Rs 3 lakh when one kg of 24 carat gold is smuggled into India,” said an official.
 
 Officials said that while there have been frequent incidents of seizure of gold there has not been any seizure of drugs. The punishment for drug smuggling is stringent, whereas gold smuggling does not attract jail term unless the value of the seized gold is more than Rs 20 lakh. It becomes a non-bailable offence only if the worth of the smuggled gold is more than Rs 1 crore.
 
 
