Chandigarh: Around 18,000 students from Tricity and neighbouring states appeared for   MBBS in around 27 centres spread across the city on Sunday. The students came out of their centres with mixed reactions. While the Physics section was said to be difficult and lengthy, chemistry was the easiest according to the students. It was added that the questions in the   were more direct this time. The students were not asked to draw diagrams in any of the questions in Biology section.

 “My exam went well. I expect a good result,” said Aniket Kumar who came from Una in Himachal Pradesh to give his exam. Ambika Nagpal from Panchkula said that the exam wasn’t too good. But she will manage a decent score.” Himashi Kanwar who came from Patiala was unsure about her performance and score. “The exam wasn’t easy but at the same time it wasn’t too difficult either,” Kanwar said.
 
 Laying stress on individual subjects most of them agreed on the difficulty of the Physics section. “The Physics section was tougher when compared to Biology and Chemistry section,” said Anjali Chauhan, a student of Shishu Niketan Public School, Sector 43, Chandigarh. Another student Anjali Dwivedi from Delhi Public School, Pinjore, said, “The exam was very good. I did turn a bit nervous towards the end which affected my performance in the Physics section.” 
 
 There were students from the dropper batch as well. Nikhil, a nursing student who took the exam for the second time said, “All the stress was before the exam. I didn’t feel any pressure at all. Having appeared for it last year too, I found it rather easy this time.” On the other hand, Himani Rohela from Karnal, who had dropped, commented that the paper was of the same difficulty level as last year.
 
 Talking about the conduct of examination authorities, students told that they were frisked as demanded by the rules and and regulations. Manju Bishnoi from Panchkula talked about the security check, “The metal detectors were working properly and each student was frisked properly.” Ishita Verma added that checking was carried out with precision and all debarred items were taken away.
 
 Parents who eagerly waited outside the examination centres told TOI how their children aspired to pursue medicine. They explained the amount of hardwork their children had put in the preparations to realize their dream of becoming successful doctors.
 
 Dr Chhattarbhuj Singla, father of Shivam Singla who appeared for NEET exam, carrying forward the family legacy said, “I am a doctor myself. We are from Patiala district and he is taking his coaching from Chandigarh. I don’t know much about his study routine but he was well-prepared, and it shouldn’t be as difficult for him. I am hoping for the best!” Sunita Mittal, a homemaker who was waiting outside the Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 19 C, examination centre quoted, “She wants to pursue MBBS purely out of her own interest. She even went to Kota for her coachings. She dropped one year of her education and has really worked hard for this. I hope it works out for her. Rest everything is up to God.”
 
 While students were busy giving their exam inside, the parents were kept busy by the representatives of different medical private colleges, coaching institutes, and consultants who send students abroad for medical training. With cars parked in every lane, locals faced traffic issues in the morning and afternoon hours.
 
 The pleasant weather came as a blessing, the students said. However, the students had to take shelter in the early morning hours when they reached the centres, schools. “The school is in residential area and we were asked to reach 45 minutes early. No arrangements were made and it became a problem initially. However, the weather made it easy to sit through the paper,” said Piyush parwal, a candidate from Shimla.
 
 The National Eligility cum Entrance Test 2018, introduced as a common medical entrance exam for approximate 63,000 MBBS and BDS seats in medical colleges all over the country. Except AIIMS and JIPMER, NEET 2087 will provide admissions to all medical colleges, be they private, government, deemed or others. The results, score and the All India Ranks for the NEET Exam will be announced by CBSE on June 5.
 
 Strict checking at centre
 
 Likewise previous years, the examination centre officials put stringent security measures including proper dress code with no ornaments to be worn by the candidates which definitely brought some discomfort to few aspirants who had to take off their shoes, badges, rings, hair bands, belts and so on before entering the centre for which CBSE had already notified them. Candidates in traditional dress or in burqa were being frisked properly. Girls were told that their burqa pins will be removed inside while frisking. Boys were informed that after proper frisking, they will be allowed to keep their caps with them in the exam hall. Girls wearing nosepin, earrings and so on were asked to remove the same and hand it to their acquaintance.
 
 Experts’ take 
 
 The Biology section was a difficult one. Around 20 % of the questions were not from NCERT books. Many of the questions based from NCERT books were tricky and required good analytical skills. Only the students who read the topics thoroughly and went a little beyond the NCERT books will score well in the examination. There was a deviation of pattern from the past years as there were four questions based on names of scientists.”
 
 Dr Arvind Goyal, NEET trainer
 
 NEET 2018 Physics was comparatively tougher than NEET 2017 where many questions needed considerable time to read and compute the correct option with impeccable accuracy. Although 26 out of 45 Physics questions were related to Class XII, 19 were from Class XI . More than 65% questions were beyond NCERT or CBSE-level Physics. More than 50% questions were very time consuming. Some questions in physics were computational, relational, challenging and heterogeneous in nature involving two or more chapter concepts which actually irked candidates.”
 
 Kunal Singh
 
 Chemistry was the moderate section amongst the three. This section was not lengthy. There were 20 questions asked from the Class XII syllabus and 20 questions from Class 11. This section had one difficult question, 20 moderate questions and 24 easy questions. Most questions were based on simple concepts.
 
 Anurag Agarwaal 
 
 Students and parents’ take 
 
 My son says that the paper was easy so we are expecting a good result. We waited at the gurdwara nearby and prayed for him while he gave his exam
 
 Dr Sanjay Kumar, a parent
 
 She has tried as hard as possible to balance her school along with coaching. If she doesn’t get the desired result this year, we’ll try again next year
 
 Harmeet Nagpal, a parent
 
 The exam this time was easier in comparison to the one conducted last year. After having given the exams, I am hopeful for a a good result
 
 Divya Sharma, an aspirant 
 
 While the Physics portion was tricky, Chemistry was average. In Biology section, there were some questions that were not from the prescribed syllabus
 
 Astitva, aspirant 
 
 
