NEW DELHI: Junion HRD minister Satya Pal Singh, who recently debunked Charles Darwin’s theory of evolution by calling it “scientifically wrong”, on Wednesday called for inculcating scientific temper and curiosity among students and emphasised the importance of “spiritual science” and “natural laws” in teachings.

 Addressed a gathering of scientists and students at the country’s premier science academy here on the occasion of the National Science Day, he said, ““There was no struggle between science and religion in India, unlike in Europe in the past. Our traditions taught us to live according to biological and natural laws.”
 
 Satya Pal Singh was the chief guest of the function organised by Indian National Science Academy (INSA), Delhi and  , Bengaluru.
 
 Noting that the number of suicides in Delhi and Mumbai is more than the number of murders in these cities, the minister questioned whether modern science taught people life-values. “It won't happen till we speak about spiritual science. We should be taught science of intellect and soul...We must discuss what is life,” said the former Mumbai police commissioner. He touched upon range of issues right from ‘Dharma’ (religion) to nano-science and artificial intelligence (AI) and called for study about life and its key elements - body, mind, intellect and soul - and said that the ‘Dharma’ in India was defined as living in harmony with “natural laws” and “biological laws”.
 
 The occasion was also marked by talks on “Science and Mathematics in Ancient India” by K Ramasubramanian of   and on “Why Evolution is Central to both Biology and Our Lives” by A Joshi of Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research (JNCASR), Bengaluru. Joshi spoke in detail on history of evolutionary biology, role of Darwin and evolutionary principles. He also emphasised why it was fundamentally important to understand changes in the physiological and development strategies of all organisms.
 
 The minister, however, left by that time as he was slated to be present only for the inaugural session. On the sidelines of the function, he refused to take any questions- either on Darwinian evolution or his reported claim that ‘mantras' codified the ‘laws of motion’ much before it was discovered by  .
 
 On ‘laws of motion’, the minister had reportedly said at the 65th meeting of the   in January: “There are mantras which codified ‘laws of motion’ much before it was discovered by the Newton. Hence it is essential that traditional knowledge must be incorporated in our curriculum.” It found a mention in the minutes of the meeting.
 
