PUNE: The   on Monday solved nine cases of bag-lifting in the city after busting two gangs with the arrest of 14 men from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu.

 The gangs have been identified as Chinna and Madhav gangs. “Their members used   among other tricks to distract the attention of people walking out of banks or ATMs before decamping with their bags containing cash,” police said.
 
 
 Besides the nine bag-lifting cases in Pune, four similar cases from Thane have been detected after the arrests. “All these cases occurred since February 1. We have recovered Rs 1 lakh, 33 cellphones, seven motorcycles, sharp weapons, screwdrivers, Parle biscuit packets and itching powder, collectively worth Rs 4.20 lakh, from the 14 suspects,” an officer with the Mundhwa police said.
 
 Police identified the arrested as   (29), Samilraj Himoti Palmoti (25), S Vijyakumar Shekhar Reddy (26), Madhav Gogula (37), Challa Sunny Yeliya Salla (26), Rajesh Gogula (23), Santosh Devarkonda (36), Rakesh Avla (19), Yeshebu Gogula (52), Shivkumar Pitla (36), Atjal Avla (40), Subhash Banaku (29), Victor Pitla (30) and Amus Avla (32).
  
 
 
 
 After grappling in the dark for over a month, the breakthrough came when police arrested members of both the gangs while they were planning to commit a dacoity at a bungalow on Manjari Road in Keshavnagar on Sunday night. “They were nabbed following a tip-off received by sub-inspector Amol Gawli,” police said, adding that the suspects will stay in police custody remand till March 26.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (zone IV)   said investigations have revealed that both the gangs employed the same modus to make away with the bags of their targets. “They used to distract the attention of their targets by using similar tricks. They were arrested after a special police team led by senior inspector Anil Patrudkar was formed after a rise in the number of bag-lifting cases in Pune. The suspects were arrested on charges of planning dacoity, but their interrogation revealed their involvement in number of bag-lifting cases. We took the help of Tamil and Telugu languages’ translators for interrogating them,” Sakore added.
 
 
 
 Senior inspector Patrudkar, in-charge of the Mundhwa police station, said officers involved in the investigation process collected minute details and carried out intense investigation before the suspects landed in police net.
 
 “We studied the routes used by the gangs, collected CCTV footages with their images, established identities of some of them, collected details of gangs involved in bag-liftings and conducted technical investigations after getting reliable information from our sources before nabbing them,” Patrudkar added.
 
 The officer said, “The members of both the gangs stayed at Kolwadi chawl near Hadapsar in Pune rural. They showed us the locations in 13 bag-lifting cases. The house owner and four women, who were cooking food for them, will also be questioned.”
 
 The gang members purchased motorcycles after reading online advertisements, but they never transferred the vehicles in their names. “Investigations have revealed that the bank accounts of the suspects could not be freezed because their family members withdrew the cash soon after it was deposited in the suspects’ accounts. We are interrogating them as we suspect their involvement in afew more cases. We are coordinating with police units to collect information of the crimes committed by them in Maharashtra and other states,” Patrudkar added.
 
 
 
 
 Police said S Vijyakumar Shekhar Reddy of the Chinna gang holds a degree in Bachelor of Science (BSc). “All other members of the gangs are school drop-outs,” police added.
 
