ULUBERIA, Howrah:   witnessed sporadic clashes in the Lok   bypolls on Monday, as it has become usual in West Bengal. The flashpoints were also predictable — Gangarampur, Amta, Bagnan — where political rivals had been flexing their muscles for all these days in the run-up to polls. But instead of CPM or Congress, clashes broke out mainly between Trinamool Congress and BJP supporters.

 The ground clashes say something about the changing scene in this constituency as poll results in Bengal are determined to some extent by the number of cadres parties mobilise on election day. It indicates that BJP has gained an organisational strength to throw up a challenge to the Trinamool vote machine in parts of Uluberia. 
 
 This is substantiated by the 76.5% voter turnout till 6.45 pm in this Lok Sabha constituency, which is five per cent higher than what it was during the Modi wave in 2014 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 BJP has demanded a repoll in the entire   assembly segment, including pockets in six other assembly segments. Yet, BJP organisers are more or less satisfied with the voter turnout in Uluberia east and parts of Uluberia north assembly segments. 
 
 CPM candidate Shabiruddin Molla has brought a similar charge against Trinamool, saying that the party’s polling agents were denied entry in as many as 391 booths out of a total 1,782 spread over the Uluberia Lok Sabha constituency. Even as their nature of complaints sounds similar, BJP is looking at gaining the second position, if not the first in Uluberia, leaving behind CPM.
 
 With the communal clashes at Dhulagori happening close to the Lok Sabha constituency, BJP leaders are eyeing at a polarisation of the majority community in this bypoll. The party thus fielded Anupam Mallik — a Hindu candidate when its rivals — Trinamool, Congress and CPM — fielded Muslim candidates. CPM’s Shabiruddin Molla raised the “son of the soil” to protect minority votes from TMC’s Sajda Ahmed, calling her an “outsider”. 
 
 However, Trinamool took the challenge to maintain its sway on Udaynarayanpur and other parts of Uluberia. Clashes broke out at Gangarampur where BJP workers were allegedly dragged out from the booth and beaten up. “Our workers were distributing voter slip when some outsiders started abusing them. Ullas Roy, who protested, was dragged out and beaten up with wooden sticks,” said Aditya Pal, a BJP worker manning the booth outside Kaijuri High School. 
 
 Reports of clash between Trinamool and BJP workers started pouring in since the afternoon from different pockets in Uluberia. At   Paschimpara, four BJP workers, including two women, were attacked allegedly by Trinamool supporters while they were manning the booth near Jaynagar primary school. 
 
 Clashes erupted at Paschimpara, Sholbhaga (booth 98) where BJP worker Lalchand Banik was beaten up. Samir Roy, a BJP functionary at Amta said their workers were attacked at Saha Chowk under Amta police station, Basantapur and Harishpur. Trinamool leader and MLA   rubbished the complaints. “The Opposition is saying all these out of frustration. People in Uluberia are with us,” he said.
 
