PATNA: The state health department will initiate mass drug administration (MDA) against lymphatic filariasis in 21 districts, including Patna, from June 18 this year.

 All 38 districts in the state have been marked as an endemic zone for lymphedema under National Vector-Borne Disease Control Programme functioning under central government’s Directorate General of Health Services.
 
 Lymphatic filariasis caused due to parasitic worms is spread from person to person through the bite of culex or common house mosquito. The disease is the commonest cause of lymphedema (swelling of tissue), elephantiasis (swelling of skin) and hydrocele (swelling of the scrotum), which occurs due to a lymphatic system blockage.
 
 Health experts say most of the infected people with lymphatic filariasis do not show symptoms, meaning anybody can be a carrier.
 
 According to health department sources, up till 2015, Bihar registered altogether 2,16,666 cases of lymphedema and 1,73,306 of hydrocele. “Bihar contributes 40% of the total load of hydrocele in the country, whereas it contributes 25% of the total load of lymphedema in the country,” he said.
 
 As per government data, Patna alone contributed 21,615 cases of lymphedema and 28,714 cases of hydrocele up till 2015. “The disease comes under neglected tropical disease (NTD). Bihar is among the high priority states. An elimination programme is being run by the government in the states that are marked as endemic zones,” the official added.
 
 “As per guidelines, 65% of the population should be covered under MDA where once a year dose of diethylcarbamazine citrate and albendazole tablets should be administered for five years continuously. The proper coverage of population under MDA still remains an issue. Deficiency of general awareness about the disease also poses difficulties for health workers to easily assimilate the drug dose among the masses,” the official informed.
 
 The state government conducted a similar MDA drive in February this year, covering Sheikhpura and Jehanabad districts.
 
 
