MANALI: The company behind multi-billion Himalayan Ski Village (HSV) project, largest foreign direct investment in tourism sector in India, refused to reinstate the project following opposition since 2006, when its detailed project report (DPR) was prepared. For the project to go kaput, the company has primarily some misconceptions to blame for.

 While the project report clearly mentioned that the ski village, which included high-end hotels, a traditional village, gondolas, shopping centres and ski resort, was to be set up in area under Palchan panchayat of Manali, there were rumors that the company would acquire all major hills of the valley — from   pass to   pass above Naggar. Since Chanderkhani is a sacred place for the people in Kullu, the project was seen as a and its fate was decided at the “court of deities” at   of Kullu.
 
 “The gurs (oracles) of deities turned down the proposal, saying it will destroy the sanctity of the place. As we have unwavering faith in deities, people took it as divine order and everybody started looking at HSV as an accused,” recalls Puran Chand, who was present at   in 2006.
 
 Since an MoU was already signed with Himachal government on December 9, 2005, the project management tried to convince the people, gur and   (caretakers of deities) that they were misinformed, but nobody was ready to hear them, Chand added. For the locals, deities’ order was the final word and led to a wave of protest, which shattered the investor’s dream into pieces.
 
 Nand Lal Thakur, a local resident who was also against the project, said: “We didn’t have any choice then. Had the project been fully Indian, we would have still considered it. But it was an American company, who have nothing to do with our religion and customs. They were coming here only to earn money. We are happy that the project faced such fierce opposition.”
 
 HSV director Ajay Dabra, however, maintained that they had clearly stated that the main purpose of the project was to preserve local traditions, culture and religious beliefs. “The project was limited to Palchan panchayat only. Chanderkhani is more than 25 km from the project site.   lake was also out of our project area. We had made a commitment to the local people that we, after their consultation, will build three temples in the area,” he said.
 
 
