Patiala: The ordeal of Craig Doody, whose 24-year-old autistic daughter landed in India to live with her boyfriend Gurdeep Singh, came to end on Monday afternoon, when he learnt that the youth’s family had put her back on a plane to New Zealand in the morning.

 The news was broken to Craig by some police officials with whom he was in touch with to get his daughter back. Craig, who reached Patiala in the morning to meet the family and request them to let Jessica return home, was told that Gurdeep and his kin had taken his daughter to New Delhi earlier in the day and helped her board a flight back to New Zealand. When Craig was this, his daughter was waiting at the Singapore airport to continue her journey.
 
 “I checked with the airport authorities, who confirmed that Jessica was on board a flight to New Zealand and she was at Singapore airport at that moment,” he said.
 
 Jessica, who Craig claims has the mental age of a 14-year-old, flew back on the new passport which had been made legally in NZ with the help of Gurdeep’s friend Mandeep Singh. Jessica had apparently tried to fly out of NZ in December, soon after Gurdeep left the country as his application for work visa extension had been denied by the immigration authorities. However, as there was a court order banning her travel out of the country without the company of her mother or sister, she was stopped by the airport authorities.
 
 Following this Mandeep helped Jessica legally change her identify and add Gurdeep’s surname to her passport, on which she managed to fly out of NZ. She had gone missing from her Christchurch home in New Zealand on March 14 and her family had reported the matter to police on March 19. On March 27, the family learnt that Jessica has been traced to Sarabha Nagar residence of her boyfriend Gurdeep in Patiala. Her   reached India on April 1. Though he met Jessica at a local police station last Thursday, the authorities did not allow him to take her back after she refused to return to NZ. The cops said as Jessica was a major and travelled on legal documents so no action could be taken against her or her boyfriend Gurdeep.
 
 “I had medical records and court documents that showed the Jessica was suffering from incapacity arising from developmental delay and was very vulnerable to the influence of unscrupulous people,” he said. Jessica’s sister Sarah Doody had also confirmed that she was autistic and had dyspraxia conditions which affected her ability to gauge social situations.
 
 
