Surat: This 2 kilometre stretch from Athwa Gate to Majura Gate is only main road in the Diamond City where pedestrians have no other option but to jump the railings to cross to the other side. The traffic junction located a few hundred metres away remains heavily congested during peak hours, making it difficult for the pedestrians to cross the road.  Being the arterial road connecting traffic coming from Adajan, Athwa Gate and those going towards Majura Gate, Ring Road and beyond, the 2 kilometre stretch from Athwa Gate to Majura Gate poses a great danger to pedestrians. The traffic junction at Krishimangal near old RTO is so much cramped from all directions that zebra crossings are marked on the dead-end of the divider, making it difficult for pedestrians to cross to the other side.  Vanita Vishram Ground at Athwagate is the spot where public fairs take place round the year. Pedestrians coming from the opposite side of the road risk their lives jumping the railings and road dividers amid the gushing flow of vehicular traffic.  An RTI activist has written to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) demanding creation of facilities for pedestrians and redesigning of Krishimangal traffic junction. In his letter to SMC, Rajesh Modi has stated that in the race to become a smart city, the civic body has forgotten to create facilities for the pedestrians like zebra crossing, providing crossing facilities on main roads etc.  Modi stated that hundreds of people visit Vanita Vishram Ground during public fairs. The foot over-bridge (FOB) construction connecting Mahavir Hospital to Vanita Vishram Ground is incomplete even after four years due to the lethargy of civic body officials.  “God knows who has stopped construction of Mahavir Hospital FOB. SMC should build it immediately without wasting time,” Modi said. SMC’s traffic department head Debashish Basak told TOI, “The issue of FOB at Mahavir Hospital is quite old. I will have to recheck the files as to why the work is still pending. However, we will certainly take up the work of redesigning of Krishimangal traffic junction after visiting the spot. The traffic department can suggest corrective measures and changes in the design to the respective municipal zone of the area. The civil work has to be done by the respective zone.”