NAGPUR: Three former schoolmates impersonating as CID officers threatened a monk, hailing from Raynagar in Bengal, to implicate him in a case for staying illegally in the city and extracted Rs35,000 from him on Sunday.

 Jaripatka police registered an offence of extortion and nabbed two teenagers and a juvenile on Monday. The teenagers were remanded to police custody till Thursday.
 
 The main accused Suraj   (20), a standard XII drop out, had planned to extort money from the monk, Shankar Chaudhary (50), as he was familiar with him. To execute the plan, he asked his old friends Abhishek Shelare (18), a hotel management student, and a juvenile, studying in B.Com 1st year, to join him. He asked them to meet him at   from where all three walked towards Jaripatka.
 
 Nagdive, who has criminal records, promised to pay Shelare and the juvenile Rs5,000 each. Police said that Nagdive was addicted to alcohol and the other two wanted to buy fancy clothes. Nagdive, who was released from jail five months back, assured them cops wouldn’t arrest them. 
 
 Chaudhary has been staying in Buddha   near Pili Nadi since 25 days. He has come to spread Buddha’s teachings. 
 
 Police sources said the tricksters went to   and produced themselves as CID Officers. They told Chaudhary that since he was a refugee from Bangladesh he was an illegal migrant. They asked him for his passport.
 
 A scared Chaudhary told them that he does not have an legal document but is an Indian citizen. But the tricksters demanded Rs50,000 for not implicating him in any case. 
 
 As Chaudhary didn’t have the cash, they told him to withdraw it from an ATM. But Chaudhary had only Rs20,000 in his account and planned to borrow the remaining from a monk friend.
 
 The tricksters and the monk duo headed towards a ATM at Rani Durgawati Square. Rs20,000 cash was withdrawn from Chaudhary’s account and Rs15,000 from the other monk’s. Nagdive took the cash and left with his accomplices.
 
 The monks returned to Vihar and narrated the incident to others. Chaudhary was asked to to lodge a complaint at Jaripatka police station. He told the cops that he had has seen one of the miscreants earlier. The cops showed him the photos of some criminals and Chaudhary identified Nagdive who was then picked up.
 
 Constables Munna Thakur, Ganesh Barde and   took action under the guidance of senior PI Uttam Mulak. 
 
 
