NEW DELHI: Your phone beeps. It’s an SMS from a stock broker. Top funds and financial institutions are gorging on shares of an NBFC. The stock has risen from ₹3-4 levels to touch ₹13 and the broker vouches it will only move up from here. The reality is that shares of Viji Finance are down nearly 45 per cent since the SMS tip on January 25.

 
 This is not an isolated case. Anybody who dabbles in stocks or has a demat account gets such unsolicited tips. We looked at 10 such stocks recommended through SMS in the past 8-9 months. Most of them are down 50-60 per cent, while some have fallen even more (see table).
 
 These stocks have declined at a time when the overall markets are doing well. Even after the post-Budget correction, the Nifty and   are trading 10-12 per cent above their June-July 2017 levels. A plain Jane index fund could have earned investors 10-12 per cent instead of the 60-70 per cent loss from these SMS scrips.
  
  
 
 
 
 The tips come from cartels of brokers and operators involved in stock price manipulation. Their modus operandi: first pump up the stock price of dud stocks and then lure gullible investors to buy these stocks at high prices (see box). Surprisingly, not only newbie investors but also seasoned veterans sometimes fall for these ploys.
 
 Experts say that investors who are serious about making money from stocks should ignore SMS tips. It is better to invest in a bluechip stock even if the price is high than buy low-priced junk. “The love for low-priced stocks is the tragedy of the small investor. After he misses the opportunity to invest in good quality stocks at low prices, he jumps in late and invests on the basis of tips from dubious brokers,” says veteran investor Vijay Kedia.
 
 To be fair, it is difficult for newbie investors to separate the chaff from the grain when it comes to stock recommendations. The SMS tipsters mask their identities or use parody accounts to send the tips. “It is routine for tipsters to use the name of a well known equity research firm or brokerage house to gain the trust of the victim,” says Nikhil Kamath, Co-founder and Head of Trading at Zerodha. He says whenever they discover that a cartel is trying to create a buzz around a certain stock, they block trading in the scrip.
 
