CHENNAI: Chief minister   on Wednesday indicated that   would not back the proposed no-confidence motion moved by TDP and YSR   against the Modi government as their fight is over 'special category status for AP', reports B Sivakumar. "TDP's notice for a no-confidence motion is for their own cause. We have been stalling the Parliamentary proceedings since the beginning of the session demanding that the Centre constitute the   or formulate a scheme as per the   order. No other party has come forward to fight for our cause," the CM clarified.

 Palaniswami was replying to deputy leader of opposition S Duraimurugan, who tried to corner the government with a direct question on whether the AIADMK would support the proposed no-confidence motion.
 
 “Cauvery water is our livelihood and our right. While TDP was in the NDA and got berths in the Union cabinet, there were BJP representatives in the Andhra Pradesh cabinet as well. AIADMK is neither in alliance with the BJP nor is it a constituent of the NDA. Their notice for a no-confidence motion is being given for their own cause. We are fighting for a different cause by stalling Parliament,” said Palaniswami.
 
 Fisheries minister D Jayakumar wondered why the opposition party had not approached former AICC president Sonia Gandhi to pressure the Congress government in Karnataka to release Cauvery water for Tamil Nadu. This prompted leader of opposition M K Stalin to retort, “The fisheries minister has given me a chance to speak. First you declare it is not possible for your government to solve problems faced by the state. Then we will work and show you.”
 
 The DMK leader wanted to know whether the Centre had given any indication of setting up the board.
 
 “Two days ago, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam gave a detailed reply on the issue. Only six days are left for the Supreme Court deadline to end. Can the state government at least now state whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi has agreed to meet an all-party delegation from TN or has promised to constitute the board? I wish to know from the government,” said Stalin.
 
 
 
 
