HYDERABAD: After protests rocked the University of Hyderabad (UoH) campus on the first anniversary of Rohith  's death last year, varsity officials have granted permission to students to organise   Vemula's second death anniversary within the varsity premises.

 According to varsity source, students have sought permission to allow seven outsiders on campus, including Rohith's mother Radhika Vemula and Dalit rights activist Kancha Ilaiah, to enter the campus on January 17 to pay their tributes to 26-year-old Vemula, who committed suicide on campus after alleging that he was being persecuted by university officials on account of his caste.
 
 "Students have sought permission for seven outsiders to enter the campus on that day. They will be organising a rally, will garland Rohith Vemula's stupa (smarak) at the shopping complex near Velivada (the Dalit ghetto) and seven speakers will be addressing students," said T V Rao, chief security officer, UoH. He added, "We have been hearing that one of the speaker might not make it to the event. So there might be only five-six outsiders on campus that day."
 
 They said the event will be held at Savitribai Phule Auditorium on campus between 5pm and 8pm. 
 
 "Permission has been given for a meeting on the 17th evening with approved guests including Rohith's mother Radhika Vemula, Prakash Ambedkar, former chief secretary Kaka Madhava Rao. The permission was sought by members of ASA (Ambedkar Students Association)," said Professor  , university spokesperson.
 
 While reiterating that the varsity has issued all necessary permissions to ensure there is no restriction on an indoor programme, officials made it clear they will not allow students to organise speeches outdoors. They also said that except for the seven outsiders, others including representatives of the press will most likely not be allowed inside the campus on Wednesday.
 
 Last year, hundreds of students from across educational institutions gathered at UoH to pay tribute to Rohith Vemula and express their solidarity with the 'Justice for Rohith Vemula' movement. Many protesters, including students from UoH, Rohith's mother and younger brother  , were detained. Despite repeated appeals to visit the 'Rohith stupa', they were forcefully removed from the university gate and not allowed to set foot inside the campus. While STOI made several attempts to speak to members of ASA, they refused to confirm anything about seeking permission for Rohith's second death anniversary event.
 
 
