A group of techies with quite the creative streak not only conceptualized a dance cover for   from  , but they also star in it, shot it and did the complete post-production work — all while doing their day jobs. Calling themselves Sweven & The Amigos (sweven meaning ‘dream’ and amigos meaning ‘friends’), Asha C, Karthik, Kunal Sharma, Pranil Kumar, Raghav, Palak Sharma, Mansi Dhawan, Viswanath Dhonti, Prathibha Metgal, Abhijith Unni, Praveen Sethuraman, Prajwal Sudhakar Shetty and   — all working in the same IT firm when the video was conceptualized and shot. The group was formed when they wanted to do something more than just their jobs, to indulge their creativity. Prajwal conceptualized the dance cover, picked the song and choreographed the steps.

 The video — which was shot largely at their office premises and around   — begins with Prajwal picking up his wife (Asha C, who is his real-life wife as well) to watch a movie. While Asha, a fan of  , thinks they are watching Anjaniputhraa, Prajwal wants to watch Shivarajkumar’s Mufti. When Asha gets upset, Prajwal sings and dances to Chanda Chanda to appease her. But why did they choose this song, we ask? “We are all huge   (Puneeth) fans. The audio of Anjaniputhraa released around a month ago and I instantly connected with Chanda Chanda, since I am from Udupi and this song has Kundapura elements in it. We have done dance covers for a couple of songs in other languages, and were looking to do the same for a Kannada number. We thought that this would be a good song to begin with,” says Prajwal. And if online hits are anything to go by — the video clocked one lakh views in the first day itself — then their choice seems to have been the right one.
 
 Prajwal took one week to nail the choreography and concept, and the team took three days to shoot the video and one day for the post-production work. All of this was done over weekends. “Ravi Basrur (music composer of Anjaniputhraa) told us that he liked the song. He even showed the video to Appu sir, who is said to have liked it as well,” says an excited Arun.
 
