JAIPUR: Solving a murder mystery a man who went missing in Ravatsar in   and was later killed in 2001, the Special Operation Group (SOG) wing of Rajasthan police on Monday have arrested a 50-year-old man who is the sitting councillor of Ravatsar municipal corporation. The victim’s family had given clear evidences and suspected the accused, still he remained scot-free and local police even filed final report in the case by giving clean chit to him. However,   after taking over the case with the intervention of chief minister’s office made arrest. 

 In the evening the SOG made a second arrest in the case. The accused identified as Bhim Beniwal (42) was arrested by the sleuths of SOG. 
 
 According to the SOG officials, the victim identified as   (30) went missing since November 9, 2001 from his house in Ravatsar in Hanumangarh . Mother of the victim  , who had fought the municipal body elections in 2001, had lodged a missing complaint on November 18, 2001. However in 2003 she approached the local police station Parbatsar and alleged that the family is suspecting that her son was abducted and killed by the accused identified as Harveer Saharan. “In this complaint the woman also alleged that the local police favoured the accused and submitted a final report in the court by giving clean chit to the accused,” said Karan Sharma, additional superintendent of police, SOG.
 
 Meanwhile, in 2016 when the Sardarshahar police in Churu district nabbed an accused in a robbery case he spilled the beans. “The arrested accused   confessed that Harveer Saharan along with his accomplices had killed the man identified as Prem Kumar in 2001. Khan had also claimed that the accused identified as Pappu Meghwal, Bhim Beniwal, Ranjeet Meghwal and Mangez Taran not only killed Prem but they had also set the body on fire to ensure no evidences are left,” Sharma added. 
 
 Despite these revelation which came to the notice of the then investigating officer, police changed the investigating officer of the murder case. “The then SP reopened the case and asked SHO Ravatsar to investigate it again. Thus, the Ravatsar SHO Om Prakash Godara arrested Wajeer Khan and named Harveer Saharan as the accused along with his other accomplices. Thereafter, the investigating officers were changed and two additional SPs investigating the matter again given clean chit to Harveer,” Sharma added. 
 
 Since anger was mounting in Ravatsar against the accused, the locals approached chief minister, Vasundhara Raje. “The chief minister office handed over the investigation of this case to us in January, 2018. After getting proper evidences and finding the 2016 investigation of Ravatsar SHO true we have finally arrested the accused Harveer Saharan for kidnapping and murder. Other four accused to be arrested soon,” Sharma added. 
 
 
