SHAHKOT: Former   minister  , who joined   Dal just 10 days ago, was booked for entering a polling booth in   assembly constituency with his licensed revolver on Monday. 

 Voting otherwise was peaceful in Shahkot, with 76.6% polling being registered till the end of the day. Voter turnout in Shahkot in the 2017 assembly elections was 78.6%, marginally higher than 76.6% registered in the bypoll.
 
 After being spotted with his revolver, Lalli was taken to the Malsian police station where a case was registered against him under Sections 132 and 134 B of the Representation of the People Act and Section 188 of IPC for carrying a weapon inside the polling station.
 
 Complaints against him were lodged by presiding officers of polling booths No. 90 and 91 at   in   of Malsian.
 
 
 
 
 Congress candidate Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia had voted at the same polling station in the morning.
 
 Shahkot DSP Dilbag Singh said that Lalli was carrying his .32 bore Colt revolver. The SAD leader remained in police detention for around six hours and was released on a bail bond at around 8 pm.
 
 Incidentally, Brij Bhupinder Singh Lalli is the only Congress MLA to be elected from the Shahkot constituency, an Akali stronghold, in the last 40 years. He was elected in 1992 amidst a poll boycott by the Akali Dal.
 
 Lalli was minister of state for home during the Beant Singh regime.
 
 After his release, Lalli refused to respond to any queries about his arrest.
 
 Voters started reaching the polling booths in morning and as mercury soared there was a thin presence of voters at several polling stations. However, by evening rush was again witnessed at the polling booths.
 
 Shahkot, largely a rural constituency, has remained a safe seat for the Akali Dal and was represented by late Ajit Singh Kohar continuously for 21years till his death.
 
 He had won all the five elections he contested from here.
 
 The present contest is between his son Naib Singh Kohar and Congress candidate Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia.
 
 
 
 
