TUTICORIN: Lauding the MPs from   for staging a protest in the Parliament on Wednesday to press the Centre to form the Cauvery Management Board ( ), president of Desiya Thenmaanila Nadhigal Inaippu Vivasaayigal Sangam, P   has said that the seriousness of the issue can be felt better, if they resign en masse.

 Talking to reporters at Kovilpatti here on Wednesday, Ayyakannu said that the MPs could also consider staging stronger protests at Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s residence. 
 
 Ayyakannu said the   government is delaying the formation of the CMB as it would result in BJP losing the forthcoming assembly polls in Karnataka. Calling Cauvery river the lifeline of farmers in Tamil Nadu, he said that it is unjust on the part of the Centre to delay the formation of the CMB despite the apex court’s direction.
 
 Accusing the Centre of destroying agriculture in Tamil Nadu, Ayyakannu said that he will move the court for contempt of court against Modi if the CMB is not formed. He added that the Karnataka government should also be dissolved under Article 356.
 
 He also charged the government for its strategic moves against the interest of farmers of Tamil Nadu to extract hydrocarbon and methane, which has been strongly opposed by farmers. Ayyakannu said that such extraction projects will also affect the health of men and women very badly for generations.
 
 “So we are carrying out a state-wide campaign to create awareness among farmers, public and youth to give a new lease of life to farmers and agriculture,” he said. As part of the campaign, Ayyakannu and other farmers distributed pamphlets and sang traditional songs in Kovilpatti and nearby villages to emphasise on the importance of agriculture and plight of farmers.
 
 The campaigners said that the government should ban genetically-modified seeds, help farmers get the right price for paddy, sugarcane and other agricultural produce, waive loans obtained by farmers, raise the level of Mullaperiyar dam and permanently stall the hydrocarbon and methane extraction projects. Else, Tamil Nadu will become a desert, they added.
 
 They also said the government should not take over agricultural land for airport expansion and for construction of government buildings.
 
 
