 is set to play   in Kaushik Sen’s newest play, Taraye Taraye. Based on Srijato’s novel Tara Bhora Aakashe, the play will also feature Kaushik’s son, Riddhi, and his wife, Reshmi, in important roles and have music by  .
“This is my first stage performance outside my own production house. I worked under Chanda’s (Sen, wife) direction twice — first, in early ’90s in Henrik Ibsen’s Ghost, and then in 2015 in Bertolt Bercht’s The Threepenny Opera. But I’ve never worked outside my own production house,” said Anjan, on the sidelines of the rehearsal on Wednesday.
 Casting Anjan as Van Gogh was actually Riddhi Sen’s idea. “I would like to take the credit for casting him,” said the actor, who plays the character of Theo/ Ritwick in the play. “When dad (Kaushik) said he wanted to do this play, I told him that no one apart from Anjan jethu can do justice to the character,” Riddhi added.
 
  
 This was not the play Kaushik wanted to direct initially. Tagore’s Bisarjan is what he thought of directing. “But then a phone call from   changed everything. He asked me to read his new novel and give him feedback. I started reading it and couldn’t stop,” he said. “I am not a trained playwright and any expert can feel that the script could have been tighter. But I wrote it out of sheer passion,” he added.
 While the physical preparation — knowing about painting, losing weight — was important for Anjan, the “emotional preparation” was also crucial. “Vincent was one of the most misunderstood characters of his time. All he wanted was a bit of recognition as an artist. But he failed. I could relate to that pain,” the actor said. Kaushik has found Anjan very excited about the role. “I just read him the script thrice. And then he started to develop the character. He is improvising every day at the rehearsals,” the director revealed.
 Though the play will be staged under the Swapnasandhani banner, Kaushik is not using the group’s funds. “I have decided not to touch Swapnasandhani’s money. I’m trying to crowdfund this play. The funds that come to Swapnasandhani will be used for the play Debesh Chattopadhyay is directing,” added Kaushik.
 
 
