PUNE: The state-wide ban on plastic has not only brought paper bags in high demand but also the courses on making such items.

 With many eyeing the opportunity to engage in small business, the number of enquiries for such courses has increased manifold in the last couple of days.
 
 The   has received over 50 enquiries for paper bag making courses since the ban was announced. “We are set to organize a training module in the first week of April. Around eight people have already registered and entries are open before the module is launched,” said Sanjeev  , junior professor. 
 
 He said, earlier, the institute used to receive about 100 enquiries per month. “The enquiries would mostly pertain to courses on paper files, folders, envelopes and paper bags. Since the ban, we have been getting specific enquiries for paper bag making courses. Over the last week, we held one such course for 21 people from Chandrapur,” Naik said.
 
 Non-profit organization Tolee too has received multiple enquiries for its one-day workshop on paper bag making. “There is a need for newspaper bags in the market and people have contacted us for the workshop.  , an instructor who has trained at Abhinav Kala Vidyalaya, will show the participants how to make paper bags, envelopes, besides some illustrations and Warli painting for decorating the bags. We have also planned a 15-day summer camp for slum children in April. These kids can make paper bags during the vacation to help their families,” said Anita Iyer Narayan, founder of Tolee.
 
 Neha Tiwari, founder of Thunga-The Paper Bag, has seen a mammoth rise in demand for paper bags in the last week of March. “When we launched in February, we sold about 100 paper bags and around 200 in the first three weeks of March. Sales boomed this week and we have given out 1,000 bags so far.
 
 Tiwari’s organization has been able to employ 50 women from the rural areas around   and 20 housewives from the city in making paper bags.
 
 The Handmade Paper Institute has been receiving enquiries and orders from boutiques, jewellers and multinational companies for customized bags. “Small traders are yet to come forward because of the high rates, but we are deliberating on how we can bring down prices for them,” Naik said.
 
 
