Nagpur: Despite having over 1,800   for plying ‘Aapli Bus,’ the   ( ) suffered a financial loss of Rs 2.61 crore since March 2017 as many buses could not operate for want of conductors.

 In a report submitted to NMC's transport department, three red bus operators — R K City Bus operations (Rs 82.66 lakh), Travel Time (Rs 90.56 lakh) and Hansa City Bus services Pvt Ltd (Rs 88.33 lakh) — claimed that every day they had shortage of conductor in both shifts and were suffering losses. Apart from 25 green buses, the NMC through three bus operators is plying 358 red buses. 
 
 A senior officer from the department too confirmed this and pointed out that, as per the contract, the Delhi Integrated Multimodal Transit System Ltd (DIMTS), which is assigned to monitor the Integrated Bus Transport Management, is responsible to engage conductors to run the buses smoothly.
 
 DIMTS has appointed two conductors agencies —   and SIS, Nagpur. "But DIMTS’ move too failed to run city bus operations smoothly,” admitted transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde.
 
 On April 22, three red bus operators of Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s Aapli Bus service had to cancel many trips due to lack of conductors. The sudden reduction of buses has also irked commuters as they were forced to travel in overcrowded buses. Many annoyed commuters also lodged complaints with the civic body.
 
 Following this, Kukde has asked the transport department to issue show cause notices to both the ticketing agencies and DIMTS for causing financial loss due to non-availability of conductors and it should not hamper city bus operations.
 
 In their letters to transport manager, one of the operator pointed out that they have enough number of drivers and buses to run city bus operation without any disturbance. “But due to unavailability of conductors, we are facing loss of trips as well as revenue loss of the NMC,” the letter stated.
 
 According to the operators, since March 2017, when the NMC took over the entire city bus operation, the transport department has failed to ensure smooth operation of Aapli Bus.
 
 The NMC had already reduced the number of Aapli buses on Sundays, public holidays and second and fourth Saturdays. The non-availability of conductors has increased problems for commuters as several routes witnessing overcrowding buses.
 
 Meanwhile, the NMC on Monday released Rs 15.54 crores to three red bus operators against their outstanding dues. 
 
 
