LUDHIANA: A major fire incident was reported in   on   in wee hours on Friday. The fire brigade officials are still on the spot and it will take more than 2 hours to completely control the situation. The fire brigade stationed 12 fire tenders on spot. 

 The fire incident happened at 1.30am in the hosiery and fire brigade was rushed to spot. There was manufacturing of polyester fabric and   is spread in around 3000 square yards of area. As per fire officials there were sudden blasts inside the factory due to which the situation went out of control. 
 
 According to latest updates, one factory worker has gone missing in the JM Hosiery where fire had broken out in the wee hours on Friday. The worker has been identified as Ramashish and matter came to light when his son Surinder and one fellow factory worker Rajnish pointed out towards his non availability. Surinder said he had received call at around 2am about this fire incident and when he reached the spot other factory workers except his father were outside the factory. He said he has brought the matter in the knowledge of administration and fire brigade. 
 
 Meanwhile a factory worker Rajnish while describing the inciden said over dozen people were inside the factory and night shift was operational. He said in the midnight they had tea and started work again but then suddenly they realised the smell and some smoke started coming out of one corner of the factory. "It created panic and we ran towards main gate of the factory. Some workers came out but then we came to know about four persons trapped at first floor," he said while adding that they went for their help but by the time fire had spread in the factory and there was no way to reach the stairs so they came from window by hanging cloth. He also stressed that they also did not see Ram Ashish after the incident. 
 
 The fire officials said the factory structure is damaged badly and they warned people to stay away as it can collapse as well. The fire was still there.
 
 The assistant divisional fire officer   said no casualty or injury has been reported and now the situation is in some control. 
 
 
 
