BHOPAL: The Smart Cities Mission would also focus on women empowerment, safety and security, said Union minister for state (independent charge) urban administration and housing development,   here on Tuesday. The move comes in the backdrop of recent spate of crime against women across the country.

 
 Addressing the first apex conference of smart city CEOs in Bhopal on Tuesday, Puri announced setting up of nine advisory committees to cater to issues of entrepreneurship and start-ups, women empowerment, smart education, disabled friendly, sewerage and septic management, public art, climate change, urban mobility and security.
 
 “Advisory committees would provide a framework to be adopted in smart cities development,” said Puri. The two-day conference is being attended by representatives of 77 of the 100 smart cities.
 
 Puri along with MP chief minister  , inaugurated three Bhopal smart city projects - integrated control and command centre (ICCC), incubation centre and integrated transport management system (ITMS).
 
 Chouhan said Madhya Pradesh will play a special role in building a new India. He highlighted the remarkable achievements in the state that was once tagged a ‘Bimaru’ state.
 
 ICCC is a first cloud-based system that would unify data sharing between seven smart cities. These include Bhopal, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Indore, Ujjain, Satna, and Sagar. It is expected to improve multitude of citizen services. The unified system would cost about Rs 300 crore over five years. Other cities are expected to go live in the next few months.
 
 
 CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Union minister   being briefed about Smart City command centre in Bhopal on Tuesday
 
 
 
 
 Large spectrum of activity for smart cities development is underway in different stages of development in MP, said UAED principal secretary, Vivek Agarwal. Investment in on-going projects is more than Rs 12,500 crore. The total quantum of investment in all seven cities of Madhya Pradesh is expected to Rs 30,000 crore in five years of the under ambitious union government smart cities mission.
 
 “The vision to create a futurefocused integrated network that would bring about efficiency and benefit citizens,” said Bhopal smart city development corporation limited (BDCSCL), CEO, Chandramauli Shukla. Crosslearning, sharing and disseminating the experience gained over the past two and a half years is expected to be shared at the conference.
 
