JAIPUR: Rajasthan   Justice S S Kothari submitted a 757-page report on pending cases with   files related to 1,828 alleged corruption cases highlighted during the previous Vasundhara Raje government (2003-08) to governor Kalyan Singh on Wednesday.

 Justice   Commission was constituted in 2009 to probe cases pertaining to land use conversion, land allotment, corruption and irregularities by public servants during 2004-2008, the lokayukta said in a release.
 
 The constitution of the commission was challenged through a PIL in the Rajasthan High Court, it said.
 
 The high court had then directed the lokayukta to conduct a fresh probe into the cases pending with the Mathur Commission, the release said.
 
 Twenty-eight of the 199 land conversion cases were cancelled, and rules and regulations were not followed in 38 cases, in which action was taken, it said.
 
 In land allotment cases, irregularities were found in 36 cases, following which 10 allotments were cancelled and in eight cases penalty was recovered, it said.
 
 Rs 20.37 crore was recovered in 88 cases of development charges, lease charges, regularisation and stamp charges, the release said.
 
 Prosecution and police action was launched in 27 cases. Disciplinary action was taken against 25 public servants in 13 cases, it said.
 
 The report said in some cases in the allotment of houses, the discretionary powers were missed by the government servants and the records of such allotments were also not properly maintained. 
 
 The Lokayukta recommended the state government to formulate proper guidelines to minimize discretionary powers of the officials.
 
 The Lokayukta pointed out there was serious irregularities in approval of building plans by the Development Authorities, Municipal corporations and Urban Improvement Trusts and Municipalities. 
 
 The Lokayukta suggested that the state government could seek guidance form the national Building code and bylaws of other states to remove the gray areas in the approval of buildings and reduce the discretionary powers of the officials.
 
 It also recommended formation of a high power committee to amend the building by laws. 
 
 
