RAJKOT: Rajkot citizens will now have to think twice before parking their vehicles in the ‘No Parking’ area. The city traffic police have increased the penalty for parking violation by 200% for all types of vehicles, be it a two-wheeler, three-wheeler or four-wheeler. The hike in penalty is mainly because of hike in towing cost.

 The decision has been taken to curb hapless parking on roads and no parking areas which is a major cause of traffic jams in the city. The penalty rules cone into force from Sunday.
 
  commissioner has issued a notification in this regard and according to it, from April 1 Rs 300 fine will be recovered from two-wheeler owner who violates parking rules against the current fine of Rs 100. For three-wheeler, the penalty for unauthorized parking has been increased to Rs 400 from Rs 150. Four-wheeler owners will have to now have to cough up Rs 600 instead of current penalty of Rs 200. “The cost to tow the vehicles parked haplessly has increased because of rising price of petrol and diesel and hike in the salary of staff. Therefore, it was decided to increase the fine amount,” the notification read.
 
 The traffic police department plans to identify 10 busiest areas like Race Course Road, Kotecha Chowk, Panchayat Chowk, Yagnik Road, Dharmendra Road, Tagore Road and mark the parking area with yellow lines. “Initially towing vehicles will be parked in these areas to bring discipline among the vehicle drivers and curb heavy traffic jam problem,” an officer of the traffic police branch said.
 
 According to the   (RTO), Rajkot, there are 20 lakh registered vehicles of which 14 lakh have movement within Rajkot city. 
 
 Rajkot traffic police have four towing vehicles for two-wheelers and two-cranes for four-wheelers. Moreover, in many cases of unlawful parking, police use tyre locks. According to the city traffic police, nearly 200 two-wheelers and 40 four-wheelers are towed everyday. “If the owner does not collect the towed vehicle within 48 hours, a parking charge of Rs 100 per day will be recovered. For heavy vehicles, the charge will be Rs 200 per day,” the traffic police notification said.
 
 Rajkot municipal commissioner Banccha Nidi Pani said, “There are currently 24 parking spaces and 10 more are being created. But the problem is we don’t have policy that a person can own a four-wheeler only if he/she has a parking space at their premises. It happens that people park vehicles on road. Commercial or educational places where people assemble in big numbers, it’s compulsory for them to provide parking space.” 
 
 “We will provide four plots in different areas to the traffic department to park the vehicles that they have towed so a person doesn’t have to go too far to get their vehicle back and traffic police don’t need to go too far to park these vehicles.” Currently, all towed vehicles are parked at police headquarters.
 
 
