NEW DELHI: Staring at a delay in starting Phase IV of its network,   (DMRC) has written to Delhi government and the Centre requesting approval to begin work on three of the six proposed corridors.

 Delhi government is yet to give a final approval to the project, along with financial commitment. This has resulted in the delay in starting construction of the 104-km, Rs 55,208 crore project. The Centre, which has an equal stake in DMRC, will give its approval only after the state gives its final nod.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The three routes identified as priority corridors — Janakpuri West to RK Ashram, Maujpur to Mukundpur and Aerocity to Tughlaqabad — have a combined length of 61.66km. According to DMRC estimates, the cost of constructing these three corridors would be around Rs 29,000 crore, sources said.
 
 At present, DMRC is finishing work on Phase III, which is expected to be wrapped up by June this year. The agency wants to start construction of Phase IV before work on Phase III finishes so that the manpower and machinery present at the sites can be used without any break. “Once Phase III is complete and there is a delay in starting work on Phase IV, men and machinery would have to be mobilised again resulting in further delay and cost overrun,” an official said.
 
 DMRC wants to avoid this situation and this is one of the primary reasons why it wants to start work on at least three of the six proposed corridors. Work on the other three corridors can be started later. The agency expects to take five years to complete the entire project from the date of commencement of construction work.
 
 Though the approval is still pending, DMRC has started preparatory work on Phase IV as it will help start construction as soon as the go-ahead comes.
 
 It is going to rope in architectural firms to finalise designs of stations and viaducts on the sections which include Inderlok to Indraprastha, Majlis Park to RK Ashram, Janakpuri West to RK Ashram, Rithala to Narela, Janakpuri to Majlis Park, Majlis Park to Maujpur, Tughlaqabad to Saket, Saket to IGI Airport and   to Saket G-Block.
 
 The geo-technical survey at different sites where stations of Phase IV are planned has already been started. DMRC sources said that preparatory works don’t involve major expenditure, but help make up for some time lost due to delays in getting approvals.
 
 The proposal sent by DMRC to the housing and urban affairs ministry doesn’t mention anything about Delhi government’s commitment for funding. Sources said this will pose a serious problem in sanctioning of the project. However, there are indications that the Centre may consider approving the plan to send the message that the Union government is keen to push development works.
 
