COIMBATORE: National Investigation Agency (NIA) officials on Saturday filed a chargesheet against two accused in the Hindu Munnani spokesperson C   murder case before the special court of NIA cases at Poonamallee in Chennai.

 The officials also produced the two, B Saddam Hussain of Saibaba Colony and S Zubair of  , before the court for remand extension. The duo, however, denied any involvement in the murder and told the court that the NIA officials had threatened them to ‘confess to the crime’.
 
 “NIA superintendent of police Kumar and inspector Sivadhanu often visited us in   and threatened to accept our role in the murder,” the duo told the court, which directed to sent their petition to the NIA office in New Delhi.
 
 Saddam Hussain and Zubair were booked under Sections 302 (murder) read with 120 B (criminal conspiracy) 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 153 A (1) (b) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 16 (1), (a), 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.
 
 In a press note, NIA said the case was initially registered and investigated by Thudiyalur police on September 23, 2016, and later, the probe was taken over by the special investigation division of CB-CID, Coimbatore, on October 1, 2016.
 
 Considering the gravity of the offence and other aspects found during the investigation, it further said, the central government handed over the case to NIA as per the powers conferred under Section 6 (4) read with Section 8 of the NIA Act, 2008. NIA registered the case on January 29, 2018, and took up the investigation from CB-CID on February 22, 2018.
 
 During the course of investigation, NIA conducted searches at the houses of four accused on March 18 and recovered Popular Front of India (PFI)’s donation receipts, PFI literature, PFI unity march CDs and other incriminating documents relating to PFI. NIA had also recovered mobile phones, compact discs, pen drivers and DVDs of Zakir Naik of Islamic Research Foundation during the search operation.
 
 “Investigation has established that Saddam Hussain, Zubair and other accused persons (Abudhakir and Mubarak), all active members of PFI, conspired and killed Sasikumar to strike terror among a section people including members of Hindu organisations. Probe against   and Mubarak and their associates are on,” the press note said.
 
 Abudhakir and Saddam Hussain are out on bail, while Zubair and Mubarak are lodged at the Salem Central Prison.
 
 
