KANPUR: The   (CBI) arrested Goods and   (GST) Commissioner  , posted in City (Kanpur), along with eight others in an alleged bribery case, on Saturday morning. Chand is a 1986 batch IRS ( ) officer. 

 CBI sources said that other eight arrested persons include GST commissioner's three sub-ordinates including two superintendents and one office staff member and five other private persons on the charges of bribery. 
 
 "An FIR has also been registered against Sansar’s wife -Avinash Kaur in this regard," CBI sources said further. The arrests were made by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Saturday morning.
 
 CBI sources informed that the arrests were made after agency received several complaints of bribery against IRS officer and his three junior staff besides five private individuals. 
 
 "It was alleged in the complaints that the officer Sansar Chand, his two superintendents, and one of his office staff besides five private persons allegedly used to take bribe from individuals and businessmen. Recently, IRS officer had taken a bribe of Rs 1.5 lakh from some local businessman," CBI sources said further and added that agency has started further investigation in this regard.
 
 Other eight accused have been identiffied as Ajay Srivastava, superintendent, GST and Central Excise, Aman Shah superintendent, GST and Central Excise, Rajeev Singh Chandel, superintendent, GST and Central Excise, Saurabh Pandey, office staff GST and Central Excise Commissionerate, Manish Sharma, director M/S Shishu Soap and Chemical private ltd (private individual), Amit Awasthi (private individual), Aman Jain (private individual), Chandra Prakash alias Monu (private individual). 
 
 CBI sources further informed that Sansar used to run an organised and systematic bribery racket. Kanpur based and entrepreneurs and industrialists were told that if regular bribe was paid then no action will be taken even if no GST is paid. "Bribes were collected by three superintendents and money was transfferred via `hawala' to GST Commissioners wife  . Businessmen were asked to deliver mobile phone, fridge, expensive TV set to Commissioners wife. The agency has booked them under the charges of criminal conspiracy of Indian Penal Code and provisions of Prevention of Corruption act.
 
 
