It seems Cyber Hub and   are all set to get some competition in Gurgaon soon, as  's ambitious plan of converting the   drain into an entertainment hub has finally got rolling. MCG has announced their intent to convert the drain, which runs from Badshahpur near Sector 66 all the way across NH48 to   in west Delhi, into a recreational area comprising of food joints and play areas several times in the past. But bureaucratic hassles and lack of implementation has meant the plan has always remained on paper so far. But now, the draft proposal for the plan has been sent to the urban civic bodies for implementation, and authorities feel the area could be operational by early next year.

  
  Badshahpur, sector 66The site of the proposed entertainment zone 
 
 Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner MCG, informs us, "We will be approaching banks and possibly even private players for investment and assistance on this project."
 
  
  
  Sources from the MCG detail the plan. In the first phase of the project, the civic body will cover a 6.5km stretch of the drain from   to  , converting it into a paved open area, upon which they will erect food stalls, places for food joints and also build amenities like a jogging track, volleyball and basketball courts, open-air gyms and parking spaces. 
 
  
  Cyber Hub in Gurgaon
 
  An official from the MCG says, "We have contacted agencies for landscaping the area and are drawing up plans for how the area will look. It will be different from existing places like Cyber Hub or Biodiversity Park as it will combine the entertainment aspect with Gurgaon's love for fitness. So, we will have food joints, areas for staging activities like   and street plays, as well as an amphitheatre. But we will also be building a jogging track, and recreational play areas for badminton, volleyball and basketball for kids." The area will be divided into several sections, with each section having its own separate entry and exit gates. Authorities have also reserved spaces for parking 50 cars at each section.
 
  
  Badshahpur, sector 66
 
  It remains to be seen if this is yet another plan for the 'redevelopment' of the drain or if the MCG will take it forward this time, but this is the most progress that has been made on the plan in several years. Sources from MCG indicate that several private companies from Gurgaon have also expressed their interest in the project. "There are already entertainment hubs in the DLF part of town. This new zone will benefit people living along Sohna Road or in sectors beyond Golf Course Extension Road," says an official.
 
  
  
 
 Pics- Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
 
