The one dozen bodies of anti-Sterlite agitation victims, gunned down by police on May 22, will remain in   GH mortuary at least till May 30, as Madras high court rejected Tamil Nadu government’s plea to reconsider its May 23 ruling to preserve the bodies until further orders.

 On Thursday, a division bench did not heed to the government’s argument that mass storage of the bodies would lead to rapid decomposition and that keeping them in the hospital itself might become a ‘focal point of unnecessary unrest’ in the coastal town.
 
 When a submission to the effect was made by former advocate-general of Tamil Nadu AL Somayaji, a division bench   P Velmurugan refused to pass any interim order, but told officials that the bodies must be preserved until May
 
 30. The order to preserve the bodies was passed on Wednesday, on a PIL filed by a group of advocates who wanted postmortem under neutral supervision. They also wanted it to be videographed. Of the total of 13 people killed in police firing on May 22, post-mortem had been done on two people.
 
 Somayaji, arguing a petition filed by Tamil Nadu home secretary, DGP, Tuticorin district collector and superintendent of police, said the dead should be treated with dignity and that relatives of the deceased had petitioned the government to hand over the bodies to them.
 
 To this, the judges pointed out that none of the family members of the victims had approached the court to revoke its earlier order, and it was only the state that had filed the petition. When counsel said the original petitioners who filed the PIL too were not related to the victims, the court said that under the current situation, it could not accept the state’s petition.
 
 In the petition, the officials said the post mortem was conducted in accordance with the   guidelines and in the presence of competent doctors and authorities. Citing forensic opinions, they said preserving a body, even in a cold storage, would not serve much purpose if there were injuries on it. It will lead to rapid decomposition, they said, adding that embalming them or using chemical preservation methods would not serve the purpose, as there would be colour changes and mask other signs.
 
 A team of competent government doctors has already conducted and completed postmortem of 2 bodies in the presence of judicial magistrates drawn from four districts and panchayathars. It was done to avoid any possible complaint from any quarter, it said.
 
 
