Remember the times you’ve been told that it’s rude to stare? Last week, a group of   made an exception of that rule — they sat down in twos to look into each other’s eyes for 15 minutes at a café at Juhu. Reason? It’s an attempt to bring back the lost art of  . Experts have often stressed on how people are so lost to technology that they forget what real communication is like. And the time limit of 15 minutes is the longest that people sat down for without a single glance at their cellphones — one of the biggest   distractions today. 

 
 
  
  
 
 A single post on   with details of the event piqued enough attention. Says organiser Swathi Nair, “Mumbai is the first city to witness this concept of bringing people together through a simple idea of  . It is also a part of the global human connection movement, founded by Igor Kreyman, who feels that the practise extremely relevant during a time of disconnection and separation. Lots of people came to try it and some, just to see how it works.” 
 The routine was simple — the participants had to sit down across a table with someone and look into his or her eyes. It could be anyone, even a stranger. Borivali-based marketing executive Sucharita Sarkar, who took part in the event, recommends it strongly to bring back the art of bonding. “I found the concept of eye gazing as an extension of meditation and that's what drew me to try it. I went with a friend and it was the nicest thing we have done together; it beats our other activities of having a coffee or watching a movie together. I recommend friends to try it to bring a back bonding. In fact, why not have this in companies and corporates? People generally tend to be a little sceptical and frozen there and this activity will help break the ice.”
 When Abheek Biswas, a researcher from Worli, found that his friends were going to try eye gazing, he tagged along with them. “It was initially scary, even overwhelming as you are not used to staring into someone’s eyes. We are more comfortable staring into our   than at someone’s face. The experience turned out to be quite enriching. I’d love to get other friends to try it,” he smiles. 
 Beside connecting with  ,   Krishnaa Thorat also got to connect with her own friend better at the event. “I know my friend Akshay for years now, but we had never done something like this. As per the rules we were not supposed to talk or show emotions initially, but had to just keep looking. We managed to gaze into each other’s eyes for full 10 minutes; there was a lot of laughter in between but we didn’t break the gaze,” she recalls, adding, “Best part is, we also switched places with totally unknown people and that felt so nice.” 
 
 
  
  
 
 Organiser Jenny Gada says that eye gazing is exactly what a city like Mumbai needs. “Everyone is in a hurry here. People have compartmentalised lives and they seem to exist in circles – your home circle, the train circle, office circle or share-a-cab friends. We don’t seem to want to come out of these nooks and accept others as easily. Eye gazing is a neat way to break the monotony and make friends outside the circle.”
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Eye gazing parties for singles have been increasingly gaining in popularity in cities across the world — like London, New York and San Francisco. They get strangers to look into each others’ eyes without speaking. Participants are encouraged to do away with a heavy stare in favour of a softer and lighter blank expression that puts people at ease. This is said to improve the quality of interaction and foster intimacy, connectedness and trust among friends, loved ones and even strangers. Says Kashish Chhabria, counselling psychologist, who conducts workshops on non-verbal cues, “Eyes are the window of the soul and this can lead to intimacy and trust. Such exercises show that everything need not be spoken in words. I wish we had more parties like this on a bigger scale in the city.” 
 
 
 
 Face-to-face communication is said to be more superior to online text conversations as it includes body language, facial expressions and physical contact. As per a study, we are said to be 34 times more successful at 
 face-to-face communication versus using an email or text.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Eye gazing with strangers means putting away the smartphones and other gadgets to consciously look at another person without talking. It may be a little unnerving to do this at the start, but once the awkwardness subsides, eye gazing becomes harmonious as two people get in sync with each other. The trend is also known as silent  . It is said to make for a powerful experience.
 
 
 
