MUMBAI: Lenders have decided not to vote on UltraTech’s Rs 7,266-crore proposal to buy   outside the bankruptcy proceedings and have instead asked Binani to obtain an approval from the Supreme Court for the deal. The lenders have asked Binani Cement’s promoter,  , to pay upfront Rs 750 crore to show their commitment, even as HDFC Bank issued a “letter of comfort” in favour of   for up to its bid amount.

 
 According to sources, the lenders — who met here on Wednesday — didn’t take any decision on approving the sale of Binani Cement to UltraTech. Last month, Binani Industries had agreed to sell its 98.47% stake in Binani Cement to UltraTech for Rs 7,266 crore, almost immediately after the Dalmia Bharat Cement-led consortium emerged as the preferred bidder under the insolvency proceedings. 
  
  
 
 The consortium had offered Rs 6,350 crore and a 20% stake in the bankrupt company to lenders (amounting to about Rs 6,900 crore), while UltraTech made a bid of Rs 6,600 crore. Both the bids were in excess of what Binani Cement owed banks. According to a lender, the primary aim of bankers is to ensure that their money is recovered. Anything in excess would go to the promoters. “It is for the courts to decide on matters of justice,” said the lender. 
 
 Both NCLT-Kolkata and NCALT, which are hearing the bankruptcy proceedings of the sale of Binani Cement, suggested that the parties settle the differences amicably and approach the appropriate forum for approval of the settlement. However, lenders feel that   and NCALT are not in a position to adjudicate on a deal outside the insolvency process, leaving the prospective buyer to approach the Supreme Court. 
 
 Lenders think that a court approval is necessary as they are aware that Dalmia Bharat is likely to initiate legal proceedings if a deal is struck with UltraTech. Technically, a defaulting company can walk away from the insolvency proceedings if it pays up all its outstanding. However, in the case of Binani Cement, the question is whether the promoter has the freedom to negotiate with buyers outside the insolvency process once a bid is awarded.
 
 
