Bengaluru: Barely 24 hours after Prime Minister   launched a no-holds-barred attack on the   government in the state, governor Vajubhai R Vala praised the Siddaramaiah government for its fight on corruption, the way it has dealt with communal violence and the overall development of the state. At the concluding event of the BJP’s Parivarthana rally on Sunday, Modi had alleged that the Congress government supports “ease of doing murder” instead of ease of doing business, and dubbed it a “10% commission government”.

 Addressing a joint session of the state legislature, the last before assembly elections in May, Vala said the Karnataka government had taken effective steps to maintain law and order and had dealt firmly with sporadic incidents of communal violence in the state.
 
 The governor’s statement also gains significance in the wake of protests and allegations by opposition parties that the Siddaramaiah government was partial to fundamental forces, who it blamed for the murder of Hindu,   and Sangh Parivar activists.
 
 “My government has taken effective steps to maintain social and communal harmony,” Vala said in his 32-page address. “Sporadic incidents of communal violence have been firmly dealt with. It has also taken steps to strengthen its police force.”
 
 Hailing the government's war on corruption, the governor said it had set up the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and appointed a new Lokayukta. “My government continues to fight corruption in public services,” he stated. 
 
 Vala held that the Karnataka government had made remarkable strides in achieving economic growth and securing social justice and welfare for all sections of society in the last five years. He also said the state has made notable progress in reaching the goal of a hunger-free Karnataka and hailed Anna Bhagya and Indira canteens, the government’s flagship schemes.
 
 Vala also praised the government’s commitment and stand on the Mahadayi and Cauvery inter-state river disputes. “The government will continue to make all efforts to ensure the rightful share of water for the people of Karnataka from the Mahadayi basin, the issue on which the state has locked horns with neighbouring Goa and also protect the interest of farmers in the Cauvery basin,” he added.
 
 The governor said the first phase of the long-awaited Yettinahole drinking water project is under way at an estimated cost of Rs 3.7 crore. He said two more projects aimed at filling of tanks in Kolar and Chikkaballapura districts with treated sewage water from Bengaluru are being implemented expeditiously.
 
 
