GURUGRAM: Across the city, overflowing   vats and illegal dumps are raising a huge stink, as the   by the city’s   entered its 12th day on Sunday, with no signs of a resolution.

 This is especially true of Old Gurugram, where heaps of garbage are piling up in the absence of sanitation workers to pick it up. In comparison, New Gurugram has been impacted far less. 
 
 The city’s contractual sanitation workers, who are demanding an uniform wage structure and permanent employment for those on contract, have been joined by fire department employees on contract and sanitation employees of Eco Green Energy Private Limited. 
 
 The state government had one round of talks with the striking workers, but it failed, and the strike is likely to continue.
 
 The area in and around Sadar Bazar is the worst hit. Garbage from the dump just outside the market is strewn all over, and the stink has engulfed the air in the market and areas nearby. Even the old MCG office, the site of the sanitation worker’s strike, is littered, as is the area opposite the police commissioner’s office and across Civil Lines.
 
 Naresh Kumar Malkat of the Nagar Nigam Karamchari Sangh said, “We regret the inconvenience, but we had no other way to get the government’s attention. It will get worse unless the government agrees to our demands.” He added that garbage is not being picked from anywhere, whether it be public spaces like markets and roadsides, or households. 
 
 Hemant Kumar, who lives near Sadar Bazar in Old Gurugram, said, “For the last two days, garbage hasn’t been picked up from anywhere. And the pile at the local garbage dump is getting bigger by the day.”
 
 On Sunday, sanitation workers met PWD minister Rao Narbir Singh and asked him to reintroduce the old pension scheme. 
 
 “When even single-term MPs and MLAs are eligible for pension, why shouldn’t sanitation workers, who have worked for 35-40 years, not be covered,” said Sushila, a sanitation worker. She added the government has recently replaced the existing pension scheme with a new one, that takes away pension benefits of sanitation workers. 
 
 Many contractual fire department employees have also joined the strike. 
 
 “The government has released a list of 1,642 permanent posts, but instead of absorbing existing contractual employees, they are bringing in new people,” said Devendra, a fireman who lives in Udyog Vihar.
 
 Desperate not to let the strike affect the city’s sanitation, MCG commissioner Yashpal   has launched an 80-hour cleanliness drive, though so far, it hasn’t had much impact. Yadav said the problem was mostly restricted to Old Gurugram, where striking sanitation workers are not letting other workers pick up the garbage. 
 
 “We’ve now decided to get help from cops to clean up parts of the old city, especially around the old MCG office,” said Yadav. He added the problem was not that big in New Gurugram.
 
 
