
I remember, I was quite excited the first time I cast my vote. I was excited, because it gave me the feeling that the control is in my hands. Right from the beginning, I felt that that one vote gives me a lot of control and nobody can take that away from me, in the sense that no matter how powerful a   is, no one can force me who to vote for. It’s completely and 100% my choice.
 
 
 
 A majority of urban voters have learnt to accept things the way they are. They feel that whoever comes to power, it won’t make a difference to them, which, in some way, is true, but things are changing now. There is a lot of access to information now; things are coming out in the open. Politicians can no longer take cover, as people can hold them responsible for their actions. It is extremely important for everyone to come out and vote simply because politicians can be held accountable for their actions.
 
 
 
 We have to come out in large numbers and ensure two things — first, to vote for politicians who have a green agenda. Second, we reward politicians who have done the right thing and encourage them to continue doing it. When it comes to the environment, everything is a long-term solution. The real issue with democracy is that politicians largely focus on short-term gratification and the environment never figures in that.
 Voter turnout has always been quite dismal in Bengaluru. If you look at it, although we live in a democracy, the government is not fully representative of what the people want. Very rarely does a government get a decisive mandate. Then there is the cliché that we hear — ‘If you don’t vote, you don’t have the right to complain’. When you are not exercising your duty, how can you expect the government to exercise its duty?
 
 
 
 It is also equally necessary that good people get into politics, which will in turn encourage more people to vote. Every part of society needs to be represented. When I see candidates, I feel that none of them are representing me or my ideas. This is happening mainly because a lot of the right people are not getting into politics. Either they feel that they will lose or they feel that politics is a dirty game. More people need to participate in politics from a wide range of socio-economic backgrounds. As citizens, we have a very important duty to vote and ensure that the right people are in power.
 
 
