Times News Network 

  NEW DELHI: All two-wheeler manufacturers will have to now install safety accessories for   riders such as saree-guard or hand grips for pillion riders. 
 
  The Supreme Court has upheld an order of the Madhya Pradesh high court which had in 2008 banned registration of vehicles without such accessories in 2008. Though the HC had passed the order on November 25, 2008, it was stayed a week later as the SC put an interim stay after the Society of Indian Automobile Manufactures (SIAM) challenged it in the apex court. 
 
 Last week a bench of Justices A K Goel and U U Lalit dismissed the petition saying, "We do not find any merit in this appeal." The SC upheld the current provision - Rule 123 of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules - which provides for mandatory safety measures for pillion drivers that manufacturers need to put in the vehicles before those are rolled out of the factories. 
 
  The Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989, says "no motor cycle, which has provision for pillion rider, shall be constructed without provision for a permanent   on the side or behind the driver's seat and a foot rest and a protective device covering not less than half of the rear wheel so as to prevent the clothes of the person sitting on the pillion from being entangled in the wheel". 
 
  According to government data, at least one-third people killed in road accidents are two-wheeler riders and the number of such fatalities are increasing on a year-on-year basis. While 46,070 two-wheeler riders were killed in road accidents in 2015, last year the number increased to 52,500. "The law is very clear and most of the manufacturers have been complying with the norms," said a transport ministry official. 
 
 While upholding the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, the high court had turned down the plea that the hand grip had been fitted at the back of the seat of the pillion rider, which is the most convenient place for it. The court had said that the hand grip should be be so fitted that it was convenient for the pillion rider to make use of it in normal sitting position irrespective of whether he was sitting side or cross-saddled behind the driver.
 
 
