KOLKATA: At least two persons died and an unspecified number, including cops, was injured on Monday as the administration struggled to quell violence left in the wake of   processions across the state. 

 Monday’s deaths in Raniganj and Kakinara followed one in   on Sunday, the three deaths capping two days of violence unprecedented during Ram Navami in  .
 
 
  
 
 Raniganj in West Burdwan, Kakinara in North 24-Parganas (where, besides the death, a bust of India’s first Union education minister, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, was pulled down) and Kandi in   were Monday’s three flashpoints, which prompted curfew in Raniganj, sealing off of the affected areas in Kakinara, police crackdown at several other places and suo motu FIRs against   leaders in West Midnapore and Birbhum. The local administration at several places reached out to people, organising peace meetings, as cops patrolled streets to bring back order.
 
 “The clashes were incited in a systematic manner. Processions deviated from their original routes at these places and processionists tried to forcibly enter a neighbourhood populated by one community at one of these places. We are monitoring the situation. Steps are being taken to restore peace,” a senior police officer said at Nabanna.
 
 In Kakinara, bordering North 24-Parganas’ Bhatpara Municipality, miscreants first brought down a bust of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad near the market named after him, triggering violence, on Sunday afternoon. A free-for-all ensued, in which there were reports of gunfire as well. Two persons, including balloon seller Md Maqsood Hussain, were injured. Both were taken to Bhatpara State General Hospital, where Hussain was declared dead early on Monday. A senior Barrackpore Commisionerate police official confirmed the death. “He was caught in the crossfire,” the officer added.
 
 Bhatpara MLA and municipality chairperson Arjun Singh confirmed he was aware of the desecration of Azad’s statue. “Cops are investigating. I do not know anything more,” he added.
 
 Residents claimed the chain of violence, which continued till Monday morning, started after a Ram Navami procession passed through the zone on Sunday evening. A few persons in the rally allegedly shouted some slogans, prompting violence that spiralled out of control. Unconfirmed reports said gunshots were heard and at least two persons were injured, one of them being critical. Cops clamped down, making it a no-go zone for outsiders, including media.
 
 The Raniganj violence started after Rajbandh locals asked rallyists to lower the volume of music being belted out by DJs, who accompanied the rally. The rallyists refused, prompting an altercation that flared into large-scale violence.
 
 Several shops were looted, some were set on fire and the clashes continued for three hours from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. Five policemen, besides several other people, were injured, the injured cops including Asansol deputy superintendent of police (headquarters) Arindam Dutta Chowdhury, whose right arm was almost severed by a bomb splinter. Asansol mayor Jitendra Tiwari claimed he was attacked when he tried to reach the strife-torn area. “We, along with the administration, are conducting peace meetings,” he said.
 
 Raniganj Chamber of Commerce working president Rajendra Prasad Khaitan said his unit proposed immediate imposition of curfew to control the violence and loot. “This has been done. We will do whatever we can to bring back peace,” he said. Asansol sub-divisional officer Pralay Ray Chaudhuri said curfew had been imposed from 6 p.m. on Monday to 6 a.m. on Tuesday. “It may be extended if needed. One person, identified as Manoj Mandal, was killed in the clashes. It was difficult to assess how many shops and houses were ransacked or set ablaze,” he added.
 
 Ram Navami rallyists in Murshidabad’s Kandi took out a procession with swords and sticks from the local Radha Ballabh Mandir, officials said. They attacked cops at the Kandi police station when the latter tried to stop them. Police cane-charged the mob but a breakaway group of rallyists, taking advantage of the fact that most cops had left the police station, stormed it and tried to set a police vehicle on fire. Seven persons, including a child, three journalists and two cops, were injured and had to be hospitalised in the ensuing violence. Murshidabad SP Mukesh Kumar said the situation was “under control”. Officials said around 15 people were detained.
 
 
