CUTTACK: After Bhubaneswar, the   department on Saturday conducted raids on five hotels and seven malls in the Millennium City and came across serious violations of fire safety norms.

 Director general of fire services B K   said 12 teams of the fire department raided 12 places and the officials were shocked to find that none of them had a valid fire safety licence. In fact, none of them have ever applied for it.
 
 In a startling revelation, the fire department also found that few malls and hotel owners have blatantly violated the building plan and approvals provided by   Development Authority(CDA). "A building at   has approvals from   to function as recreation club, but surprisingly a high-end hotel has been functioning from it. Another hotel has illegally constructed a basement without CDA's permission," said Sharma.
 
 The inspection also revealed that none of the 12 malls and hotels had any fire fighting arrangements in place. Though few of them had installed fire extinguishers in their complex, it was just for the namesake. Not a single staff member at these malls and hotels had any idea about operation of these fire extinguishers. The malls and hotels, which attract hordes of people daily, had no proper entry and exit points.
 
 "During inspection, we found that a hotel had stored gas cylinders in its illegal basement while another hotel was using its exit areas as gas cylinder bank, which is very dangerous. Even the malls have also displayed items in corridors and staircases, which is against fire safety norms," said a fire official.
 
 Sharma said all the 12 institutions will be issued notices along with a detailed advisory. "We will list out all the shortcomings at these 12 malls and hotels and will send advisories to them. They will be given two months time to comply with our directions," said Sharma.
 
 "If they do not adhere to the rules, legal action will be initiated against them. Along with sealing the malls and hotels, we will also lodge cases against them," said a senior fire official. After the fire tragedy at   in Mumbai, the state fire department has started such inspections.
 
