BENGALURU : Samina Shiraj Mulani, who has topped Sri Kumaran Children’s Home in the science stream, is on cloud nine. The girl secured 99% in the CBSE exams with two centums in chemistry and computer science.

 
 “My father is a software professional with a multinational firm and my sister is a California-based engineer. I too dream to become an engineer and work abroad,” says Samina, who is currently pursuing MS in computer architecture at the University of Texas.
 
 
  
 Vibha Krishnaprasad Nadig, from the same school, topped the humanities stream by securing 97.4% in the board examinations. “Four years ago I wanted to become a journalist, but now I want to pursue law and specialize in international diplomacy. I am awaiting the CLAT results,” she said. Vibha, who studied for eight to 10 hours a day during the exams, has also participated in Model United Nations and played state-level volleyball.
 
 Though   Shankaran is inclined towards engineering, the science topper at Oxford Senior Secondary School, JP Nagar, dreams to be a writer some day. Shruthi secured 98% with 99 in mathematics, chemistry and computer science. “I couldn’t believe it when the school called up to say I had topped,” she said.
 
 Shruthi studied mostly during the night. “I started studying seriously only after December. I have taken the CET and JEE tests and want to pursue computer science engineering,” she says.
 
 Rahul Prasad, who has topped the commerce stream at   (North), aims to become an entrepreneur. He secured 97.6% and has already got a seat in the   course at Christ (deemed to be university). “I studied for nine hours for two months and found accountancy to be the most difficult. I want to pursue economics and have applied at St Stephen’s College, Delhi,” said Rahul, adding that his father, a customs official at Bengaluru airport, is his biggest inspiration.
 
 Harini MS from Nagarjuna Vidyaniketan, too, secured the same percentage in commerce. “I always aspired to be a school topper and finally saw my dream come true. I studied for sixeight hours a day. My teachers made the subjects more interesting through fun activities that helped us understand concepts,” she said. Harini plans to pursue media studies.
 
 — Anisha Mavely, P Hema Bhavani Asha, Dhanyata M J
 
 
