KOCHI/KOTTAYAM: The supreme head of Syrian Orthodox Church and   of Antioch Mar Ignatius Aphrem II, who arrived here in Kochi on Tuesday, said that he would seek Union government’s help in facilitating peace talks between the Orthodox and   factions in connection with the dispute on   and parishes.

 Aphrem II was speaking to press after an episcopal synod which was held at the Patriarch Centre in Puthencruz.
 
 “We will ask the centre to facilitate talks to ensure peace,” said the patriarch adding the he will be visiting Delhi to meet Prime Minister and the President.
 
 Addressing a question on whether he would be visiting the Parumala Church, the patriarch said that he is not here to deepen the division. 
 
 “The property in Parumala has been in the name of the patriarch for a long time. But I am not here to claim it. I am not here to create any misunderstanding, therefore I wouldn’t be visiting the church,” said the Patriarch.
 
 He however said that there has not been any response from the head of the Orthodox Church to the invitation extended by the patriarch to hold discussions. “We haven’t heard from him yet but we are hoping he will respond and we are looking forward to meeting him,” the patriarch said.
 
 “We are not here to impose any kind of roadmap on anybody. We are here to encourage discussions,” he said. The synod of the   Orthodox Syrian Church slated for Wednesday at Kottayam has gained significance in the backdrop of the patriarch’s visit. 
 
 The synod will be presided by the church head Catholicos Baselius Mar Thomas Paulose II and will be attended by 27 bishops of the church, It will begin at the church headquarters in Devalokam, Kottayam at 2.30pm. 
 
 It will be keenly watched whether the letter written by the patriarch calling for peace between the Jacobites and the Orthodox Church would come up for consideration. The patriarch has expressed desire to have peace talks either in Kerala or Delhi in the letter. However, the Orthodox Church is of the stand that there is no relevance for talks as peace is possible only based on the constitution of the church made in 1934 and the Supreme Court judgment of 2017.
 
 On change in leadership of the   in the state, the patriarch said that it has to be decided by the synod of the local church. 
 
 “What people go to court is to get justice,” he said. “It is important to think about the interest of the people. We have to think about their difficulties when they are not able to attend functions like weddings and funerals in their churches. We have to bring peace for the sake of these people,” said the patriarch. 
 
 The patriarch added that he will be meeting chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to thank him for his invitation to be a guest of the state on Wednesday.
 
 
