A three-day musical extravaganza in   recently saw singer Armaan Malik, DJ   and DJ Zaeden giving scintillating performances. The musicians were in town to take part in  , the annual fest of Graphic Era University. 
 
 DJ Zaeden had Doonites grooving on the first day of the fest. He played remixes of popular   numbers, along with his famous numbers The Lonely Heart, Never Let You Go and Land of Lords. The audience danced and swirled to Zaedan’s tunes till late evening. He also played popular remixes of songs like Magic, Animals and Don’t Wanna Know. The second day saw the performance of international DJ Jillionaire (part of the famous Major   group). Apart from playing EDM tracks, Jillionaire also played some popular Punjabi songs.
 
 Armaan Malik wrapped up the fest with a magical performance on the third day. He sang many of his popular numbers, including Mujhko Barsaat Bana Lo, Bol Do Na Zara, Kuch Toh Hai, Wajah Tum Ho and Tumhe Apna Banane Ka. 
 
  
  DJ Jillionare 
 
 
 Abhilash Singh, a student who lives in  , said, “I’m a big fan of Zaeden. He’s one of the youngest and popular DJs in the country. He has a number of songs under his label but Never Let You Go is my favourite.”
 
 Jatin Chugh, alumni of the college who works in Haridwar, said, “I am an EDM fan. I have been following the college’s posts as I heard rumours before that DJ Jillionare will perform at the fest. As soon as the college confirmed his gig, I booked my tickets to Doon. It was one crazy evening, I still can’t believe I saw him perform live.”
 
 Bhawna Gurung, one of the college students, said, “I am not much of a dancer but when DJ Jillionare played Punjabi songs, including  , I just couldn’t stop myself and grooved all evening with my friends.”
 
 Parth Koul, another college student, said, “The first day of the fest was good with Zaeden but Jillionare took the second day to a whole new level. I never thought we would see a major international DJ perform in Doon.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 Priya Ghildiyal, a college student who lives at Tyagi Road, said, “I love Armaan Malik! I have heard all his song and seeing him perform live in Doon was a great experience. He is such a versatile singer, I thoroughly enjoyed his live performance.”
 
 Sahil Rathore, a businessman who lives in Dalanwala, said, “I came to attend this fest with a friend. It is only recently that I have become Armaan’s fan. He has sung some remarkable Bollywood tracks and my favourite is Tumhe Apna Banane Ka. Apart from being an awesome playback singer, he is also a good stage performer. He gave an amazing performance today.”
 
  
  Party all night: Students dance to peppy tunes
 
  
  Audience enjoy the performances
 
  — Shikhar Dua and Taresh Dutta
 
 
