MAPUSA: The import of sand has landed native Goans involved in the extraction business in a fix. Sources said a private firm, in association with the   ( ) has on February 4, imported the first consignment of 55,000 tonnes of high-quality sand from Malaysia. This comes after the Union ministry of mines’ suggestion that Goa follow the same path as Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to reduce pressure on rivers and meet local demand.

 Local stakeholders said their dependents will be severely affected if sand is imported even as they suggested that the government regulate the activity. “Thousands of people depend on sand mining directly or indirectly. Extractors’ families, trucks used in transportation, shops, garages, etc, are linked to the industry. If sand is imported, all these people will lose their sources of income,” a Chapora-based sand extractor said.
 
 Tamil Nadu and Karnataka began importing sand from Malaysia last year. The former has also banned the direct sale of imported sand by private players and has made its public works department the sole agency to procure sand from overseas.
 
 Sources said the absence of clear guidelines and monitoring of the sand mining industry in Goa, along with rampant and indiscriminate extraction, has been damaging river ecosystems.
 
 Uncontrolled extraction along the   and Chapora rivers, despite a ban imposed in 2015, poses an ecological threat for those residing along the banks. The two North Goa rivers are sand extraction hotbeds, contributing over 50% of the total sand extracted in the state. The excessive and indiscriminate extraction also threatens the existence of mangroves, as following the boom in the real estate sector — one of the mainstays of Goa’s economy — extractors looking to make fast bucks are parking canoes directly on mangrove beds. Despite demands to contain the extraction process to selected patches along the river, illegal extraction continues at locations like Keri, Kiranpani, Devsu, Konnadi, Bhalkhajan, Colvale, Nadora, Ozarim, Pirna, Camurlim, Marcel, St Estevam, Betki-Khandola and Savoi-Verem.
 
 “Sand extraction at various points along the Tiracol river has been on since decades. It has become an issue of late as it has become uncontrolled and excessive. We are often referred to as the sand mafia because some extractors mine on a very large scale without concern for the river’s ecology. If extraction is regulated and capped, there is enough sand for sustained development,” an extractor said.
 
 The department of mines will be formulating guidelines regarding sand import and may charge a transit pass fee of Rs 100 per trip. Sources also said a mining consignment from Gujarat is likely to reach Goa at the private jetty at Kothambi.
 
 
