GURUGRAM: The city has been ranked among the top three performers in   in ‘social media grievance tracking and disposal’ even though it received the highest number of   with regard to broken roads, poor policing and medical negligence, among others.

 A total of 144 complaints were filed on   by Gurgaon residents between January 1 and February 10, of which 139 have already been resolved, revealed a statewide analysis conducted by the government on Friday. Nevertheless, it came third, after Karnal and Mewat, in terms of time taken to respond to those grievances and the percentage of complaints disposed of during this period. While Karnal addressed 82 of the 85 complaints received, Mewat resolved 53 of the 54 issues posted online.
 
 
 On Friday, additional principal secretary   conducted the analysis of grievances reported on ‘social media tracker’. A total of 1,499 complaints were reported across Haryana between January 1 and February 10. Of those, 1,302 complaints have been resolved.
 
 According to official records, the highest number of complaints came from Gurgaon (144), followed by Faridabad (140) and Bhiwani (129). In fact, the three districts also resolved the highest numbers of complaints — Gurgaon (139), Faridabad (110) and Bhiwani (108). But, the ranking has been decided on the basis of percentage of complaints processed (60%), processing time (20%) and percentage of complaints acknowledged (20%).
 
 As a result, Karnal (95), Mewat (92) and Gurgaon (91) have been rated as the top three districts in the state. On the other hand, Jhajjar (62), Panchkula (69) and   (70) ranked as the worst three performers in citizens’ grievance redressal.
 
 “Gurgaon is at the third position, but it is giving a close competition to Karnal in resolving complaints filed on social media,” said Gupta. Officials said under the online media grievance tracker launched in May last year, one could tweet a complaint to @cmohry (the official Twitter handle of the chief minister’s office). So far, residents complained about government employees not present on their seats, water overflowing into residential areas, government hospitals refusing to issue birth certificates without an original slip, power cuts, garbage mounds, illegal etc.
 
 After receiving a complaint, the   forwards the same to the deputy commissioner concerned, who, in turn, assigns the job to the department responsible for that particular task. The department is then looks into the matter and resolves the problem at the earliest. Finally, an action taken report, along with pictures, has to be submitted to the chief minister’s office.
 
 Though it’s been a while that the programme was launched to ensure time-bound response to citizens’ complaints, this is the first time when the authorities analysed the performance of each district in this regard.
 
 
