CHENNAI: Medical records of   patients in the state will now go digital. The   State   Control Society (TANSACS) will initiate the project on a pilot basis at the antiretroviral therapy centres in Madras Medical College and at the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Egmore, which have around 5,000 HIV-positive patients enrolled in the state programme.

 K Senthil Raj, TANSACS project director, said the patients will also be given a login id, so that they can access their records, including lab results and next appointment with doctors, through their phones. “Starting from the counsellor to the staff nurse and then finally the doctor, details of the patients will be fed into the system. The doctors will have a dashboard with the patient’s medical history,” he said. 
 
  At present, 1.2 lakh people with HIV are on the antiretroviral therapy programme run by the government.
 
 Officials say once a patient tests positive for HIV, the ART centre maintains a ‘white card’ with the patient’s details, while the patient is given a notebook that carries information on their drugs intake and their CD4 count – an important indicator of the immune function and the strongest predictor of HIV progression. A doctor at an ART centre here said many of these cards are simply discarded. “Walk into any of these centres and you will see these cards lying in some corner, gathering dust. We usually refer to the notebooks these patients bring. Mostly we go by the information they provide,” admitted the doctor.
 
 The TANSACS director, too, said poor documentation was a problem. “We also have duplication. A patient who registers at an ART centre in one district later moves to a centre in another district and enrolls as a new patient,” he said, adding that maintaining electronic records will do away with this challenge. “We will also be able to track them better.” 
 
 Tamil Nadu has AIDS testing centres at all district headquarters with more than 55 ART centres and 750 Integrated (Voluntary) and Confidential Counselling and Testing Centres (ICTC) under the National AIDS   at district level government hospitals and medical colleges across the state. Patients, who are confirmed HIV-positive, visit ART centres at least once a month for drugs and testing. 
 
 While NGOs and experts working with people living with HIV have welcomed the move, they said digitalisation could also raise concerns on privacy. “Many of them lie low as they don’t want people around them to know they are infected. They will be wary if they know their details are available online. The state needs to assuage this by holding awareness camps,” said Vijay Raman from Voluntary Health Services which undertakes projects related to HIV/AIDS among the transgender community.
 
 
 
 
 In an effort to fight misinformation on sexually transmitted infections and diseases, the Tamil Nadu state AIDS control society will soon revamp its website to make it more interactive. Public can clarify doubts about condom use, STDs and STIs by emailing a group of counsellors dedicated for this. The website will be launched on January 11.
 
