PATNA: With the temperature plunging to 7.1 degrees celsius and the chilly weather making   shiver, the   in the   has started gaining momentum.

 The shopkeepers say their business is dull this year. “Sale of winter appliances has gained some momentum in the last four days”, said Kumar Raju, who works in an electronics shop at Dak Bungalow roundabout. However, he added the rush of customers was not up to the expectation. Unlike previous years when appliances like room heaters, blowers, geysers and immersion rods used to get out of stock, this year the case is different.
 
 Raju said around 40 heaters and blowers were being sold on an average on daily basis in the last three days. He further added this time oil-filled radiator (OFR) heaters were in demand. These heaters are available from Rs 5,500 to Rs 15,000 and are considered environment friendly as they use oil as a reservoir for heating the metals and not as a fuel.
 
 R S Jeet, owner of electronic appliances shops in  , said he was selling ten heaters and blowers every day this time. However, two years back he used to sell around 100 pieces during peak time.
 
 He cited various reasons for the dip in sale. He said, “Now, large number of shops selling electronic goods have come up in different parts of Patna. People also prefer buying products online. With the click of a mouse, they can do their shopping sitting at home and that too at cheaper rates. Winter also does not last for a very long period. Increase in the electricity bill is also forcing people to limit their electricity consumption.”
 
 He added above 20% of their market share was captured by online sites because they were offering huge discount to attract the customers as they were buying the products in bulk with huge margin and were offering home delivery.
 
 Local heaters were available at his shop from Rs 300 to Rs 600 depending on the number of rods in them and branded ones were available for Rs 700 to Rs 1600. Blowers were available from Rs 900 to Rs 3,000.
 
 Manager of a leading electronics goods company Rajesh Jain said the sale of geysers from its various counters in Patna picked up after December 20 and at least six to eight geysers were being sold every day. They are available from Rs 6,500 to Rs 10,200 depending on the volume of the geyser.
 
 
