CHENNAI: As they struggle over badly relaid roads and sweat through unending traffic snarls in  , most motorists envy those going along the roads leading into and along the residential complex for IAS and IPS officers in the locality.

 The contrast could’t have been more stark. While the roads leading to and abutting the Tamil Nadu Housing Board-built complex, all laid by Greater Chennai Corporation, are smooth as glass, regularly swept by armies of corporation workers, those in the rest of the area are littered with potholes and some haven’t been relaid for more than six months. The stench emanating from indiscriminately dumped garbage around the allocated bins on these roads only compounds the problem.
 
 A visit to the area shows the care the corporation lavishes on the complex with more than 1,000 apartments, a virtual luxury island in the area complete with exclusive power sub-station, parks, swimming pool and play areas. Corporation workers ensure the ground officers trod on is trash free. A corporation worker said the cleaning exercise took place twice during the day. “At times, we clear it based on instructions from top officers,” he added.
 
 Getting top all-India services officers as neighbours has, however, not benefited other residents of the area. “The area where all these highrises have sprung up was a virtual dump yard till a few years ago. Now, it has transformed into a posh locality but our civic woes have not been addressed,” said Rajan, a resident.
 
 Thangal Erikarai Main Road, just behind the swanky officers complex and a key link between   and   in Virugambakkam, has not be relaid for about six years. Kumar, who lives at Indira Nagar off  , said craters on the road caused frequent accidents. “This road is used by hundreds of motorists daily because it connects Maduravoyal with   through Nerkundram and Virugambakkam. One stretch, in Nerkundram, was relaid about a month ago, while the rest, in Virugambakkam, has remained untouched,” he said, wondering why the authorities concerned had turned blind to such an important road. Another resident, Chithiraimal, complained that a majority of them were forced to endure frequent power cuts.
 
 When contacted, an official attached to the corporation’s Zone X under which Thangal Erikarai Main Road falls, said the stretch would be relaid this year. “We have included improvement of the road in this year’s budget,” he said, also claiming that the garbage in the area was cleared regularly.
 
 
