MUMBAI: The state prison department has tied up with   in a bid to start study centres at a majority of jails in   so that convicts can have a better chance at finding employment post their release. 

 In the past three years, nearly 1,700 prisoners enrolled for Bachelor degree programmes though very few prisons have study centres.   officials said the focus is on courses where specific work-related skills will be imparted.
 
 Maharashtra has 54 prisons of which nine are central jails. As of March 31, 2017, there were more than 31,200 prisoners, while the sanctioned strength is around 23,900.
 
 "An MoU was signed between Yashwantrao Chavan Open University and the state prison department in 2017," said additional director general of police (prisons),  .
 
 The varsity will offer study material and hold exams free of cost for Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Commerce, Bachelor of Computer Applications and Yoga studies. Short-term vocational courses will also be designed," said a prison official.
 
 Under the MoU, the university designs the curriculum and a suitable assessment system. Assignments and project work are handed out and academic support provided by varsity officials. Special audio-video cassettes are made so that prisoners don't miss lectures.
 
 The prison department is supposed to maintain student-wise record of work done, take attendance and organise counselling sessions.
 
 "For school dropouts, the university has designed a six-month-long preparatory course. After passing this course, the prisoner can enroll directly for the first year of the degree programme. If he passes the first year, it will be considered equivalent to an   certificate. After his release, he can apply for any position where HSC is the minimum eligibility criteria, including police constable recruitment exams," said  , director of student services at the university. 
 
  "There are ongoing programmes where prisoners are imparted work skills. We are deliberating if this can be supported with theory and certification given," added Atkare.
 
 
