If Vasant Apte had not purchased a railway pass for his daily commute to his workplace at a newspaper in Mumbai 58 years ago, his acclaimed card collection would have been nowhere.

 “I was buying my monthly railway pass at Andheri station, and the man at the counter gave the pass in a cover, which had one of those random cards. That was the first card I ever collected. I think it was in 1960,” says Apte.
 
 From that year on, besides working his way through his professional life, he looked wherever he could to expand his collection of cards. And while his focus was on getting his hands on every conceivable design of playing cards available, his enormous collection — of 6,500 cards and some other items — has cards of every conceivable theme.
 
 He brought some of this collection at the   art gallery at for an exhibition by the  , where he is a regular, now even more so, after he shifted base from Vashi in Navi Mumbai, to   in Pune, over the past three years.
 
 The exhibition was a delight in itself, with everything from rare minerals, headgear from around the world, vintage stoves used by households and soldiers, and even more quirky displays of jigsaw puzzles and iconic matchboxes from Sivakasi to  .
 
 In Apte’s stall, also attended by his son Parag and his three grandsons, visitors started asking about his display soon after the inauguration by the renowned artist  . And the cynosure of all eyes lay right in the middle of his display — a gold-plated collection of playing cards.
 
 “Since I was in the merchant navy, I had friends from whom I could source things. This card stack is plated with 24-carat gold, actually, and I got it from a friend who went to Hong Kong for work. He got that from there,” the younger Apte says.
 
 While that stack came from overseas, others came from sources as local as the ubiquitous raddiwaala.
 
 “Most of the cards that I have here are from raddiwaalas,” Apte says with a laugh. “Other people would throw away some of these cards because they considered them garbage. But those raddiwaalas knew me, and would specifically bring me these things. That has immensely increased my collection.”
 
 As any collector would, he has arranged his cards in themed cases. One of the most fascinating ones is about the airlines, logos from an era — and even airline companies — bygone. So on display are cards from Pan American World Airways, or PanAm, which boomed and then went bust in the early 90s. There are also remnants from British Overseas Airways Corporation (BOAC), a former British airline. Below these are some of the early cards of Emirates, then an obscure airline that had just bought its first jets.
 
 Apte proudly displays his card catalogue with modes of transport.
 
 “I have arranged the sports cars at the bottom, and the cards with the vintage cycles at the top. Just as a display of how transport has evolved,” he says.
 
 Also helping in the collection are friends and acquaintances in favourable positions. During the release of films in the yesteryears, merchandising was just as important as it is these days, with themed playing cards from production houses being a particular rage. Apte would get his film-themed card stack well in advance.
 
 “I had a friend in Mumbai who was associated with films, and had a good rapport with stars like Shammi Kapoor. He used to get me these things, because he knew of my hobby,” he says.
 
 Apte is 80, but he is not worried as to whether his family will carry on his quirky hobby.
 
 “After me, there’s my son, and there are also my grandchildren. Inspired by me, they have also started collecting cards,” he adds.
 
 And even at this exhibition, they are true to their grandfather’s word. When they stepped out during a break, they managed to find a card with a kingfisher. “I got it right now, actually. We picked it up from the pavement at JM Road. If you go out onto the road, you will find these things. It’s not that difficult,” they say, before going out to expand the family collection again.
 
 
