PANAJI: A suggestion to exclude areas of   from the planning and development authority’s ( ) jurisdiction faced opposition from the panchayat body and a section of gram sabha members, but local activists adopted a resolution opposing development in low-lying fields. 

 The meeting chaired by sarpanch Janu   witnessed a heated debate after Anand Madgavkar, a gram sabha member, demanded inclusion of Taleigao in the regional plan. 
 
 He cited several areas where eco-sensitive zones (ESZ) were sought to be converted and demanded marking of ESZ areas to protect them.
 
 Pundalik Raikar, another member pointed out that under section 238 of Goa Panchayati Raj Act, panchayats had the right to prepare annual development plans. PDA is a statutory body at best and it can assist the panchayat, he said.
 
 While the issue of a big project near the church figured at the meeting, Xavier Almeida, a member expressed regret that unlike Taleigao, the villagers of St Cruz had not fought to protect their eco-fragile land. He proposed a hunger strike even in front of elected representatives’ houses if cultivable land was misused.
 
 But Rosario, zilla panchayat (ZP) member Sidney Barreto and some others justified the village’s inclusion in PDA, stating that panchayat areas have been part of outline development plan (ODP) for many years. In the end, the gram sabha resolved for villagers’ participation in the planning process.
 
 Madgavkar also raised the issue of illegal filling up of a water body for construction activity in   valley. The traditional water way for run-offs from the hillside to the sea was being wiped off, he said.
 
 The issue of sewage release in fields by some housing complexes was also raised by villagers. A three-member committee is being formed to determine issues like the quantum of fine to be imposed on offenders. 
 
 Also, the issue of open defecation and lack of toilets was discussed, as Madgavkar and others said many areas like   and Caranzalem faced this problem.
 
 
