PUNE: Two cases of   have been reported by residents of   link road in the past 10 days. While last Saturday, a car was broken into and goods kept inside were stolen, on Monday night a car parked in the basement of   was vandalized.

 Residents said a series of thefts reported in the last four months, rash driving especially at night and narrow dark roads have raised security concerns, especially for the senior citizens, residing in  .
 
 
 “My car was parked in the second basement of Regent Plaza. It was found vandalized the next day. They must have come on Monday night and right under the nose of building’s security, started it using a master key and purposely banged it against the pillars in the second basement. This has caused extreme damage to the car,” Vishal Pipraiya, co-owner of  , said.
 
 He does not know the reasons. “I am still figuring out why anybody would do this. Though there are issues of security failure and management’s apathy, these culprits are roaming the link road brazenly. If there is even the slightest possibly that I was a random victim, I want others to be aware and take appropriate safety precautions,” he said.
 
 Another resident complained that one of his society members had complained about theft from his car. “On Saturday night, the car of our friend’s relative was parked outside Montvert Belrose Society as there was no visitor’s parking space within the society. Someone broke the back window glass and stole bags kept inside the car,” the resident, who wished to remain anonymous, said.
 
 Anjali Jagtap, secretary of Kubera Bahaar Society, said four months ago, there was a series of thefts in the shops where street lights were not functioning. “The shops were broken into at night. We had seen a suspicious man coming inside our society around that time from the outer gate but he was unable to come inside the society as guards man the inner gates to the society,” Jagtap said.
 
 The problems are not limited to thefts alone. Residents have been long demanding street lights and CCTV cameras in the area as many senior citizens residing in Athashree, a residential complex for senior citizens, too have reportedly been victims of hit and run cases. “The road near Athashree is narrow and lighting is also poor. Due to no CCTV, we are unable to track the vehicle numbers who do rash driving. At night, a lot of drunk people also go around the area and then there is the problem of people riding bikes making a loud noise,” another resident said.
 
