CHANDIGARH: “There is only one possibility of excelling if you have a passion for it. Nothing happens without passion and passion drives you forward," said Lillete Dubey, in her usual humorous demeanour to the Times of India. 

 In the city for the play ‘Kanyadaan’, one of the legendary works by  , a pioneer in the Indian theatre fraternity, Dubey insisted that passion is the only key that carries you forward towards your dreams. “First of all there should be desire, then hard work, followed by luck. It should be a whole package.,” she said.
 
 Dubey, who joined the film industry just eighteen years ago, still considers movies as her side business but calls theatre her first love. “When they used to offer me roles for Hindi films in 1991, I was 20-21. and honestly I did not see myself doing them. I did not have the sensibility for Hindi films. But with time Hindi films have changed and now I relate to them better. But I had decided that when I begin doing movies, I will just have fun and do everything.,” she added.
 
 Dubey was introduced to theatre by legendary Barry John, with whom she has performed over 30-40 plays in fifteen years. “Barry John lit a fire in me that never went out,” she said.
 
 Within the last three years, Dubey apart from working in plays, produced some under the aegis of her company ‘The Primetime Theatre Company.’ a venture she started almost 27 years ago. She has starred in two international films namely ‘The Great Exotic Marigold Hotel’ and in its sequel ‘The Great Exotic Marigold Hotel 2’ with stalwarts from Hollywood like  , Maggie Smith and Dev Patel. 
 
 Talking about her family Dubey said, “My father was a scientist and he used to go to King’s College, London for presenting research papers. My mother on the other hand, was a gynaecologist in the '40s, when literacy among women was not that common. Hence, even I used to sometimes feel that what do people like me would do to make a loving.
 
 Dubey believes there is a bias when roles are written for male actors in their fifties as compared to female actresses in the same age group. 
 
 “In Hollywood senior female actresses like Meryl Streep, Helen Mirren and Judie Dench still have such great roles to do, but it is not the same here. There is very little to do even for mainstream actresses, let alone supporting roles.”
 
 
