NEW DELHI: The Union ministry of tourism’s ‘adopt a monument’ scheme has seen at least half a dozen centrally-protected monuments in the capital find a corporate sponsor. The latest in that list is  , which has been ‘adopted’ by   Ltd. The idea is to look after operations at the fort and   this Unesco world heritage site for the next five years. 

 The ‘Adopt a Heritage’ scheme was launched by the President on World Tourism Day on September 27, 2017. Under it, private and public sector companies and corporate individuals were invited to   heritage sites and to take up responsibility for making them more accessible while also promoting sustainable tourism through conservation and development as their ‘corporate social responsibility’. 
 
 “They would become ‘Monument Mitras’ and adopt the sites. The basic and advanced amenities of the tourist destinations would be provided by them. They would also look after the operations and the maintenance of the amenities,” said a ministry official. 
 
 The project began at 93 ASI ticketed monuments and would be expanded to other natural and cultural sites across India. Other Delhi monuments that have been adopted are Purana Qila (by NBCC), Jantar Mantar (SBI Foundation), Qutub Minar (Yatra.com, an online travel portal), Safdarjung Tomb (Travel Corporation of India) and Agrasen Ki Baoli (Special Holidays Travel Pvt Ltd and Rotary Club of Delhi). 
 
 An MoU signed between the tourism ministry and Dalmia Bharat says the company would be able to  , landscape, illuminate and maintain activities related to provision and development of tourist amenities at Red Fort. This includes various basic and advanced amenities such as public conveniences, clean drinking water, cleanliness of the monument, accessibility for all, signage, cloakroom facilities, illumination and night viewing, surveillance system, tourist facilitation cum interpretation centres among others. 
 
 “In addition to this, Dalmia Bharat will also introduce other key amenities for visitors like app-based multilingual audio guides, digital interactive kiosks, digital (LED) screens, free Wi-Fi and cafeteria along with souvenir shops that would help in promoting local art and craftsmanship,” said a company release. 
 
 The company would also try to provide easy accessibility to differently abled visitors. For that ramps and toilets that are disabled-friendly would be constructed. “Facilities like wheelchair availability, battery-operated vehicles, Braille signage are some of the key additions which will make Red Fort a barrier-free monument. Use of advanced surveillance system like PTZ-based CCTV cameras will also be installed as per ASI guidelines. We will also assist in controlling the advanced tourist flow management system linked with the carrying capacity of the monument, including light and sound shows with regular cultural shows and facilitation of night visits to the monument,” the company release added. 
 
 
