NEW DELHI: It might be a home game for the Delhi Daredevils at the Ferozeshah Kotla on Wednesday but it’s   who have lot more to lose from this clash. Here are two of the most inconsistent teams in   11 so far, with hosts Delhi having won only two and their opponents Royals winning three.

 
 
 
 Another scrappy outing for Ajinkya Rahane’s Royals and Delhi might well leapfrog them in the points table. For Rajasthan, a loss would seriously dent their chances of progressing to the final stages of the competition. That’s why the visitors appear cautious of their next move as they get ready to face the Daredevils under new skipper Shreyas Iyer.
 
 
 
 
 
 Mumbai batsman Iyer had a winning start to his IPL leadership just a week back at the Kotla, with an impressive win over KKR. Even on Monday night, the Delhi team - especially the batsmen - gave a good account of themselves against the Chennai Super Kings in Pune.
 
 The Royals are dogged by the inconsistency of their middle-order, and even skipper Rahane failed to lead them to a win in spite of batting through the innings for an unbeaten 65 against Sunrisers Hyderabad at home. 
 
 “I think it’s down to individuals like myself and Ben (Stokes) to step up in the middle-order. We have to back ourselves to do that and try to finish the games,” Royals and England wicketkeeper Jos Buttler said at the Kotla here on Tuesday.
 
 What Buttler wanted to highlight was the failure of the Royals middle-order, with the exception of Sanju Samson, who has notched up 279 in seven games so far. Buttler himself only has 120 runs while his England teammate Stokes has scored 147. 
 
 “In the T20 format, low scores don’t reflect failure, really. A batsman can run into form with one good shot or one slice of luck. We have to keep playing good cricket to win matches and keep ourselves in contention,” Buttler added.
 
 The Daredevils will look to cash in on Royals’ inconsistencies, especially when it comes to their fielding. 
 
 “We haven’t performed well in all three facets of the games but yes fielding has been most disappointing. A few dropped catches could change the course of the match and be the difference between ‘middle of table’ position or rising to the top,” the English wicketkeeper felt.
 
 On the eve of the match, Royals mentor Shane Warne and skipper Rahane had a close look at the 22 yards that will be on offer for Wednesday. In the last two matches, the two Kotla tracks have been vastly different - while the one against Kings XI Punjab was low and slow, the one laid out for KKR had a little more pace which was relished by Delhi batsmen Iyer and Prithvi Shaw. Delhi will hope that home comfort will turn into some ‘good luck winning charm’ for the team.
 
