NEW DELHI: The Indian economy is forecast to grow between 7 per cent and 7.5 per cent in 2018-19, reinstating India as the world’s fastest growing major economy, the   for 2017-18 said on Monday. However, the Survey cautioned that persistent high global crude oil prices remain a risk factor.

 Growth in the current fiscal year, which ends in March is estimated at 6.75 per cent, marginally higher than the Central Statistics Office’s (CSO) estimate of 6.5 per cent.
 
 “The outlook for 2018-19 will be determined by economic policy in the run-up to the next national election. If macro-economic stability is kept under control, the ongoing reforms are stabilised, and the world economy remains buoyant as today, growth could start recovering towards its medium term economic potential of at least 8 per cent,” the Survey, a document prepared by the finance ministry, said.
  
 It said the reform agenda for the next year should focus on stabilising the Goods & Services Tax ( ), addressing the problems of bad loans and stressed companies, privatising  , shrinking unviable banks and allowing greater private sector participation.
 
 Over the medium term, it called for focusing on creating jobs, and revamping the education sector to create “an educated and healthy labour force”. In addition, farm productivity has to be raised.
 
 Flagging the risk of high prices, the Survey said average crude prices could be around $56-57 per barrel in the current financial year and could rise by another 10-15 per cent in 2018-19, which have a dampening effect on growth.
 
 On the fiscal side, it said a pause in general government fiscal consolidation relative to 2016-17 cannot be ruled out.
 
 “A key policy question will be the fiscal path for the coming year. Given the imperative of establishing credibility after this year, given the improved outlook for growth (hence narrowing of output gap), and given the resurgence of price pressures, fiscal policy should ideally have targeted a reasonable fiscal consolidation,” the Survey said.
 
 “However, setting overly ambitious targets for consolidation — especially in a preelection year — based on optimistic forecasts that carry a high risk of not being realised will not garner credibility either. Pragmatically steering between these extremes would suggest the following: A modest consolidation that credibly signals a return to the path of gradual but steady   reductions,” the Survey added.
 
 The Survey said it identified fiscal and current accounts as two macroeconomic vulnerabilities and called for halting the practice of bank recapitalisation and assuming the debt of state discoms. “Contingent liabilities have added about 5 percentage points of GDP to total government debt since 2000-01. Not only the central government but also the state governments will need to address this.
 
