JAIPUR:  , seasoned politician who recently made his comeback to   was on a special assignment on Thursday. Aftermath violence and clashes at Hindaun City and  , the Rajya Sabha MP from the state was specifically asked by home minister Rajnath Singh and chief minister   to have a visit and play the role of catalyst to restore peace. 

 Meena not only met the locals who belonged to schedule caste(SC) and schedule tribe(ST) who are angry after attacks at the sitting local MLA house and former MLAs house, he also made it a point to meet the members of general caste. 
 
 “I had an appointment with prime minister, Narendra Modi on Thursday morning. But I cancelled it as I was asked by the Union home minister, Rajnath Singh and chief minister, Vasundhara Raje to have a visit in Karauli and violence hit areas,” said Dr.   Lal Meena while talking to TOI. 
 
 He visited Khatkar area in Karauli district where more than 40,000 people were gathered and as per the intelligence report they were attempting to reach Hindaun city. “I assured them that irrespective of caste, creed and community the people involved in the violence won’t be spared by the government. Likewise, I have given the message of the chief minister, Raje that innocents won’t be touched and wrongly implicated,” he said. 
 
 Kirori addressing the rally said that those who took the path of violence are a few and such incidents can’t dampen the brotherhood and harmony. “Some people are trying to disturb peace. These people would be taught lessons legally. I urge you to restore peace and brotherhood and forget these ugly incidents,” Kirori said while addressing a rally near Gangapur city. 
 
 He also held a meeting with the Inspector General of police, Bharatpur range and Superintendent of police, Karauli. 
 
 “I have briefed chief minister on my visits and assured that people in the region have got a confidence and I have given a message loud and clear that government will take stern action against those who are attempting to disturb harmony in the state,” he added. 
 
 
