NEW DELHI: A day after the opposition 
  , it was joined by an ally of the saffron party, the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party ( ), which voiced similar sentiments.
 
 
 The   is in a spot as the SBSP not only joins the opposition   in its criticism, it joins another ally, the 
  ( ), in criticising it for "ignoring" the poor, minorities and Dalits from its development agenda.
 
 Worse for the BJP, the SBSP is threatening to boycott voting for the upcoming Rajya Sabha (RS) elections in 10 UP seats if its party chief isn't granted an audience with BJP president Amit Shah. While the BJP has the numbers to send its eight candidates to the Upper House, the SBSP, which has four MLAs in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh Assembly, holds key to the fate its ninth nominee, reported PTI.
 
 " If I don't get to speak to BJP President Amit Shah, I will boycott the voting for Rajya Sabha elections:," said OP Rajbharm SBSP chief.
 
 The RS polls are scheduled for March 23.
 
 While LJP chief   spoke about the BJP's governance in the country as a whole, Rajbhar, confined his comments today to Uttar Pradesh, where the saffron party lost two key Lok Sabha bypolls last week.
 
 "The (UP) government is just focused on temples, and not on welfare of the poor. The same poor who voted the government to power. There is lot of talk but little change on the ground," said Rajbhar, who's a minister in the UP government, to ANI news agency.
 
 Rajbhar was referring to the BJP's agenda in Ayodhya and its movement for a Ram temple at a contested site there. The UP minister said the BJP is "drunk on power" at the idea of being part of an alliance (the NDA) that has as many as 335 seats altogether in the Lok Sabha.
 
 "Yes, we are part of the government and of the NDA, but the BJP is not following coalition 'dharma'... I have been expressing my concerns, but these people are walking around drunk on the idea of having 325 seats in the Lok Sabha," the UP minister added.
 
 Two days ago, LJP chief Ram Vilas Paswan said the BJP needs to follow its 'sabka saath sabka vikas' slogan in letter and spirit. He also held up the BJP's arch-rival, the Congress, as an exemplar of governance. 
 
 "The NDA needs to take along all sections of the society. Congress also ruled the country for several decades by building an inclusive society," said Paswan to reporters on Saturday.
 
 The BJP made no comment about Paswan, but expressed its unhappiness with Rajbhar.
 
 "Mr. Rajbhar is our minister and our ally, if he has some issues he should put them in front of the cabinet and not in public. You can't be a part of the government and criticize it too like this, (it) doesn't work both ways," said a UP BJP minister Siddharth Nath Singh.
 
 
 
