BENGALURU: Two employees of a cash logistics firm siphoned off smalls sums from   they had to fill and, to evade detection, even replenished the machines when audits were due. But their game came to light when they were caught by police while transporting the money in an autorickshaw belonging to an accomplice. The trio was arrested recently with Rs 5 lakh cash.

 Police said Satish M N, 32, and N Manjunath, 21, both residents of Ramamurthynagar and cash custodians with Radiant Cash Management Services Pvt Ltd in Ejipura, had been stealing money for over four months now. Investigation is still on into just how much money they stole.
 
 The duo were travelling in an auto belonging to Sunil Kumar, 24, also a resident of Ramamurthynagar and who police say is an accomplice, when night patrol police flagged them down for a routine check near Hennur Cross on February 10. Constables Shekappa Nayak and Milar Lingappa, attached to   police station, were startled when the auto did not stop. “The vehicle, carrying three men, was travelling towards   from Hennur Cross,” one constable said. “Instead of stopping, the auto driver sped away. We gave chase on our Cheetah bike. We succeeded in stopping the vehicle at   half a kilometer away.”
 
 Police claim they found currency notes in denominations of Rs 2000, Rs 500 and Rs 100 hidden under the driver’s seat and behind the passenger seat. “Our men questioned the trio about the source of the money and when the three failed to give a convincing answer, they were taken to the police station for questioning,” police commissioner T   said. “There, they confessed to have stolen the money from different ATMs in and around Kothanur.”
 
 As custodians (personnel who handle ATM cash), Satish and Manjunath had access to the machines. “They opened the ATMs using master keys and stole small amounts,” Suneel Kumar said. Satish, a chief custodian, also made sure that there was sufficient cash whenever the audit team visited the ATMs. “Being the chief custodian, Satish knew dates and times of the audit team’s visits,” S Girish, DCP (northeast) said. “At such times, Satish would replenish the machines with cash taken from other ATMs.”
 
 “They were in charge of 20 ATMs across Hennur, Kothanur, Hebbal, Ramamurthynagar and KR Puram. They would steal the cash a day after loading it into the machine,” Girish said, adding, “The custodians admitted they have been stealing money for over four months now,” he said. Police say Sunil Kumar colluded with the custodians and transported the loot in his vehicle.
 
 
