AHMEDABAD:   across the state handed over documents of some 250-odd sets of parents — who  , to secure admission for their   of their choice — to the cops, to take criminal action against them.

 This is the first time that police action will be taken against parents who are financially sound for forging documents to take advantage of a scheme meant for the welfare of poor children.
 
 The most such   cases were detected in Surat, where 250 applications were found to be suspect. After scrutiny, some 100 admissions were found to have been based on forged documents.
 
 “We have handed over documents of around 100 cases, where parents submitted bogus documents to fraudulently secure admission under RTE laws,” said U N Rathod, DEO, Surat.
 
 In Ahmedabad, DEO Navneet Mehta said that the fake documents submitted by 60-odd parents for admission under RTE despite them being well-off have been handed over to the police. “Police will file complaints through the concerned education officials,” said Mehta.
 
 Last year, 62,000-odd admissions were granted under the Right to Education Act, which stipulates that 25% of seats in class 1 onwards at private schools be reserved for children from poor socio-economic backgrounds. However, complaints were raised not only with DEOs but also the education ministry, about many parents faking poverty on paper, a la the Bollywood sleeper-hit movie ‘Hindi Medium’, to secure admission in prestigious schools for their wards. 
 
 An inquiry was ordered and after the elections, orders were given to initiate action. While 100-odd parents who faked low incomes and poor living conditions cancelled their admissions fearing penal action, action has been initiated against 250-odd parents who failed to correct their lies despite warnings.
 
 “Action against such parents has been initiated to set an example to others, to not usurp the rights of poor children. The Act mandates an opportunity for mainstream, quality schooling as a right to every poor child and no rich parent should go unpunished for trying to usurp this right,” said education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama.
 
 Some of these ‘fake poverty’ cases includes parents living in bungalows, large flats, owning cars, expensive mobile phones and running businesses and having incomes ranging from Rs 45,000-70,000 per month faking their incomes to be around Rs 50,000 per year. 
 
 
