NEW DELHI: Metro would finally link up north and south Delhi directly as the   rolls out on Wednesday. The biggest beneficiaries of it would be the students who would now save 40 minutes while commuting between the two campuses of  . 

 
  
  
 “The commuters riding from Durgabai Deshmukh   Metro station would see the panoramic view of the Ridge and Dhaula Kuan intersection from the highest point in the network—said a senior DMRC official.
 
 This point would be above the Airport Express line and as high as a seven-storey building. The whole line has 12 stations, all of them having platform screening doors for safety. Apart from that, the stations are disabled-friendly with special toilets and lower ticketing windows. There are diaper-changing rooms too for those with children. 
 
 The line had posed engineering challenges at places and these had to be overcome with innovation and improvisation. The Rajouri Garden station, for instance, stands only 2.5 metres from houses. Special pink screens have been installed for privacy of those homes. 
 
 “A delay of four years happened in acquiring land from jhuggies in Mayapuri and Punjabi Bagh. We could only get the land in mid-2016. Closeness between houses and the metro line while approaching Rajouri from Mayapuri is evident of the engineering challenge,” said DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal. 
 
 Foot overbridges and travelators have been installed for saving time of commuters at the four intersection stations. A major highlight of the Rajouri Garden interchange station is a 250m FOB with four travelators. “For the first time, Delhiites will be using travelators outside the airport. Rajouri Garden travelator is functional while the 920m travelator connecting Dhaula Kuan and South Campus will be ready by June,” an official said. 
 
 Huge glass artworks have been installed at major stations as permanent fixtures. These are by prominent artists. Even platforms have been decorated with jaalis resembling pink and red sandstone.
 
 The coaches have colour-coded seats and have LCD panels beaming updates like upcoming station, expected time etc. 
 
 Netaji Subhash Palace is the first station to be built at a semi-underground level. “We are just 2.5m below ground level while entering the station. NSP has been decorated with the largest number of art panels on this line,” said an official. 
 
 At Azadpur, giant fans offer an old world charm. “Three fans have been installed in the station that are power efficient and will serve as good air circulation tools in the non-AC elevated section,” an official said. 
 
 Beyond Azadpur, the line terminates at open fields beside Majlis Park, right in the vicinity of Bhalswa and Burari.
 
 “Initially, we will be running 19 trains with a frequency of up to 5.12 mins. It will be inaugurated on Wednesday and people will be able to use it from 6pm onwards,” Dayal said. 
 
 
