CHENNAI: It’s more than two months since   in the state went  , but people are having a harrowing time at sub-registrar offices because of connectivity issues. Though the upgraded portal of the registration department with the information technology-enabled service STAR 2.0 (Simplified and  ) is aimed at facilitating speedy registrations, poor   connection at registration offices is defeating the purpose.

 For instance, an elderly woman who visited the Saidapet   to change the attorney for her property on Monday had to spend more than three hours for the simple process. “It took several hours online. The office was crammed and there was no space for people to sit,” she said. Change of attorney, if done manually, takes less than an hour. Hundreds thronged the sub-registrar office on Monday as it happens to be an auspicious day. Such offices in the southern suburbs of the city witnessed similar scenes.
 
 Officials in the registration department blamed it on slow internet connection. “The STAR 2.0   is fabulous. It bars the intervention of brokers and enhances transparency. We only wish the internet speed was as good,” an official said. Sub-registrar offices have been functioning beyond the usual working hours to clear the rush, especially on such auspicious days. 
 
 Sub-registrar offices use internet from the state-owned Tamil Nadu State Wide Area Network and a private service provider. On an average, such an office in the city registers 60 documents; this can go up to 100 on auspicious days. The government announced mandatory online registration of property documents from February, but since technical glitches have come to the fore, the registration department has allowed parallel offline registration till June.
 
 Inspector general of registration J Kumaragurubaran denied any large-scale inconvenience to the public. “In fact, this April we recorded 1.95 lakh document registrations online, compared to the 1.65 lakh documents in April 2017 when the entire process was manual. Steps are being taken to get more broadband lines from BSNL within 45 days to boost internet speed,” he said.
 
 
