CHANDIGARH/MUMBAI: Some of Punjab cricket's top guns better start working on their fitness if they want to keep playing for the state.   has become the first domestic body in the country to implement the stringent Yo-Yo test for its players.

 The test has been implemented on the recommendation of Punjab skipper  , PCA trainer   and coach Ajay Ratra. Punjab had made it to the quarterfinals of the Ranji Trophy in 2015-16. However, the team hasn't even made it to the knockout stages for the last two seasons.
 
 On Thursday, the test was conducted on several players, who are in the probable list for the upcoming   (India's premier Twenty20 competition) at the I S Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali. Punjab plays its first match of the tournament against this year's Ranji runners-up Delhi on January 9.
 
 Passing the Yo-Yo test is mandatory for selection in the Indian Test as well as limitedovers teams. Harbhajan made it clear that Punjab players will be given some relaxation for the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy this time but they will have to start adhering to the norms from the next tournament. "We can't have players who can just bat and bowl. They have to be fit enough to play," Harbhajan told TOI. "At times, during this Ranji season, the intensity was very low. So, I thought enough is enough. Drop in energy levels leads to drop in performance and that leads to poor results. You just can't have up and down results in alternate matches," the off-spin legend added. "It is clear that Punjab cricket is growing at the U-19 level, but it is not getting converted at the Ranji Trophy level. We found out that fitness was a major issue. When we suggested this (implementing the Yo-Yo test) to the Punjab Cricket Association, they were very excited about it and urged us to enact it immediately," said Harbhajan. "The Yo-Yo test should be a basic benchmark of fitness for players to be selected in the state team," said Ratra. The parameter that has been set is 16.1- the same that national team.
 
 "If someone is getting 12.2, our trainer is there who will help the concerned player get up to the standard mark. We will give players two or two and a half month window to raise their level," he said.
 
 Recently,   had failed the Yo-Yo test and was dropped from the Indian team after which the Punjab star has been working out at the   to get into prime fitness. Harbhajan also said star status wouldn't matter if a player flunked the Yo-Yo test. "Howsoever big a player is, no matter how skillful you are, we want everyone on the same page if they want to represent Punjab."
 
