PATNA: Principal of   Brother Satheesh K Don on Friday felicitated Nikita Sinha, who won bronze medal in the finale of Junior World Pencak Silat Championship 2018 held at Songkhla Rajabhat University, Thailand. The principal said Nikita has not only brought laurels to the school and the state, but to the country as well. Nikita was among the 21 players who represented India in the international martial art contest. She was also applauded by the school teachers and students. 

 A N College youth festival: Students of Anugrah Narayan College participated in various activities on the second day of the institution’s three-day youth festival – Indradhanush 2018 – on Friday.
 
 Shweta Shree and   jointly received the winner’s trophy in classical solo dance contest while Arti Kumari bagged the trophy in folk solo dance category. In semi-classical category, Prabhat Kumar was the winner. Priya Sinha and group bagged the prize in group dance category.
 
 In vocal competition, Mukul Kumar was the winner in solo folk song category. Intekhab Alam and Chandra Prakash Giri bagged the prizes in semi-classical and classical singing contests, respectively.   and group got the winner’s trophy in quiz while the runner-up trophy went to Roushan Kumar and group. Rishikesh Ranjan and   got the first prize in debate, while the most promising speaker award was bagged by Shivank Sriraj. The trophies and certificates were distributed by college principal Shashi Pratap Shahi.
 
 Lecture on yoga: Central University of South Bihar organised a lecture on yoga on Friday. The programme started with yoga session, in which students, teachers and employees of the university participated. The participants performed various yoga postures (asanas) under the guidance of yoga guru Vijay Prakash Mishra.
 
 Mishra talked about various aspects of yoga for leading a healthy and successful life. He also inaugurated a 10-day exhibition based on yoga postures and teachings. The programme was attended by university registrar Gayathri Vishwanath Patil, dean, students’ welfare, Sanat Kumar Sharma, proctor Kaushal Kishore, faculty members, staff and students.
 
 
