JAIPUR: At a large gathering of foreign tour operators, chief minister   reeled off the number of initiatives the state government has taken to improve the tourist destination and improve the quality of experience.

 Addressing the delegates of  , she also focused on projects that would further improve the facilities and attract more tourists.
 
 She said Rajasthan now has air connectivity to tourist destinations like Agra and Varanasi which has been made possible because of the Centre’s Udan scheme but she said the state will benefit further it is connected to Kochi via Agra
 
 The central government has selected   under Iconic Tourist Sites Development project. Top officials from the centre who was here to attend the GITB event said that they would be holding various meetings and also visit the site to prepare a roadmap for gap analysis and master plan development.
 
 Raje said Amber Fort attracts most number of tourists after   in Agra and the new plans would enhance the appeal of the fort.
 
 Development of tourism requires good infrastructure, product development and effective marketing. Raje said the state has been focussing on constructing good roads, making railway stations tourist friendly and also involving private sector in various initiatives.
 
 The chief minister had set a target to reach 50 million tourists by 2020. In 2017, tourist arrivals crossed more than 46 million in the state. Recognising the performance, she said that the government is targeting all the areas which is paying off now in terms of increased tourist numbers.
 
 State additional chief secretary tourism   urged the Union tourism secretary Rashmi Verma to approve the proposals for three new circuits the state has submitted plans. The state seeks to promote tribal, eco and desert tourism through these circuits.
 
 While appreciating the public-private initiative like GITB, Verma said India tourism is the fastest growing markets in the world. As per a forecast, she said, India will be third largest tourism market in the world.
 
