Late actress  's boyfriend, actor   seems to have moved on in his life. Two years back Rahul had cried foul when Pratyusha had committed suicide. Now, he has found a new lease of life as he is all set to tie the knot with  .

 
 Rahul, who celebrated his birthday a few days ago, put up a status on his social media account, stating how Saloni had been with him through thick and thin. He also made his relationship with Saloni official in the post. 
 
 Putting up pictures of the party, he stated, "It has been a long year for me...one which had many ups and downs..several highs and several lows....but like they say...what does not kill u...only makes you stronger...on my Birthday today...I would like to wish every single person who came,who wished me,who called and messaged,and even those who didn't!! Thanks so much!! And of course A Very Happy Birthday to Me!!! 1This is my year and I will come out with positivity and hopefully with a lot of success! A special thanks to my dear Saloni Sharma@onlysimkie...my soon to be wife and partner for life...u have been there when no one could!! Loved all the surprises!! THANK YOU BAPI MA FOR THE WONDERFUL VIDEO! Thank you to my dear family for giving birth to me so I can celebrate this day!! Thank you Raj and Tanya for your midnight visit! Thank you Rahul Dwivedi for your creativity...Thank you Bablu and Dharmendra for being there smiling and dancing...Thank uuuu! Muah!".
 
 Saloni had arranged for a cake on which the birthday message read as, 'Happy Birthday Hubby. '
 
 Take a look at the post here:
 
 
  
 
 Actress Pratyusha and Rahul were apparently in a steady relationship until the horrifying eve of April 1, 2016, when Pratyusha committed suicide after a heated argument with Rahul.
 
 The industry and fans were in for a rude shock on learning about the same. Further while Rahul was blamed for the ill happening, he was seen blaming her parents for mentally torturing Pratyusha and extracting money.
 
 Rahul was also blamed for cheating on Pratyusha with Saloni but the actor had claimed her to be a good friend back then.
 
