AURANGABAD: The civic body has started the annual nullah-cleaning work ahead of the rainy season as a measure against possible waterlogging in the city. 

 Tenders worth Rs 1.75 crore for hiring machinery for the purpose will be opened on Tuesday, mayor Nandkumar Ghodele said. The   plans to complete the work by June 15, he added. 
 
 The city has nullahs stretching to 67km. Though it is an annual exercise to clean the nullahs ahead of the monsoon, all round the year, the stinking nullahs with vectors and garbage are a point of humiliation for the heritage rich city.
 
 The AMC’s city engineer   said the cleaning works will be focused only on certain garbage vulnerable spots. 
 
 In the previous years, the civic administration has been accused of over-spending on nullah-cleaning works. 
 
 Earlier this month, Panzade had stated that the agencies hired for the work would often provide poor quality services or leave the work half done. So, it was decided that the works will be undertaken by the AMC staff and the additional machinery will be hired through tendering. 
 
 Panzade had added that the cost of the works won’t exceed Rs 70 lakh. However, the cost of tenders to be floated for machinery alone is Rs 1.75 crore.
 
 Ghodele said the works for cleaning the ducts have been initiated with the excavators and machinery available with the civic body. Sunday saw the AMC machines working at   and lifting waste from it. “Since the work is huge, we will need more machines, which will be hired through private agencies. The tenders will be opened tomorrow and within two days the tendering process will be completed,” Ghodele said.
 
 This year, the   Chemists and Druggists Association will own the responsibility of cleaning the nullah over which their office is built. 
 
 The development follows the directives given by the district court to the association. Subsequently, association president  , on Monday, expressed the readiness to pay the civic body Rs 5 lakh for undertaking the work.
 
 
