JAIPUR : The   ( ) on Saturday continued its demarcation work for the   road proposed between Panchayat Bhawan at Kalwar Road and Ambabari Junction. 

 On the second day, the teams completed the survey of 225 structures and marked them with red paint.
 
 A senior official source said, “The small portion of land from Brigadier House and Hyper City Mall will also be acquired, if JDA would construct the slip-lanes on the side of the elevated road. It is proposed that 4.5 meter land from Brigadier House and 5 metre land from mall will be acquired,” he said. 
 
 The JDA has constituted eight teams to carry out the survey and demarcation work. The JDA earlier has identified nearly 576 structures for demolition. However, the actual number of affected houses will be revealed after the survey is completed. 
 
 To ease traffic, the (JDA) had proposed the three-lane elevated road between Ambabari petrol pump to Jhotwara Panchayat Samiti Road at a length of 2.4 km. The estimated cost of the elevated road will be Rs 166 crore.
 
 An official source at JDA said, “As per a previous survey, the JDA has mentioned that it requires 52,349 sq m of land near the flyover. Currently, we have only 28,700 sq m of land. The JDA would also acquire land of including six temples and four schools.”
 
 Sources further said, JDA has proposed to rehabilitate the affected shop owners of Jhotwara elevated road on the government land situated in Jhotwara industrial area. The JDA has decided to relocate affected house owners to Niwaru Road. “We have identified 25 bighas of land at Niwaru Road near Express flyover. The land belongs to district administration which has approved transfer of the same to JDA,” added source. 
 
 According to officials, 30% of the affected owners have already constructed their houses on government land. The encroachers too are demanding huge compensation and protesting against the construction. This is the reason the JDA is carrying out survey work under the police deployment. 
 
 
