SALEM/ERODE/KRISHNAGIRI: Presenting his full last budget before the next year general election, Union finance minister   spelled out a slew of schemes to improve rural infrastructure, spur agriculture production and accelerate growth momentum in manufacturing and services sectors.

 The reactions to the budget from industrial, farm and political representatives in Salem region were mixed. Welcoming the move to allocate Rs 3,797 crore for micro, small, medium enterprises (MSME) sector, president of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries (ICCI) – Salem Chapter K Mariappan has questioned how the government is going to create 17 lakh jobs before 2022. 
 
 “No new industries or units have flourished in the last three years across the country. How the government will create 17 lakh jobs by 2022,” he asked.
 
 President of Krishnagiri district small and tiny industries association K Ramalingam also welcomed the budget allocation for MSME sector. “We also appreciate small move made in the budget that MSME companies with turnover of Rs 250 crore would have to pay 25% as corporate tax, which earlier was limited to companies with Rs 50 crore turnover.” he said
 
 However, he said the budget did not consider the long pending demand of MSME to reduce the interest rate of bank loans to 8%. “The interest rate reaches up to 12% now and it would be reduced to 10% only in a few banks depending on the loan amount,” he said. 
 
 Chairman of Salem branch of SIRC of ICAI (The institute of chartered accountants of India) V Ravindran termed the budget as ‘election orientated budget’, as there were no major changes in tax slabs. He welcomed tax exemption for farm companies whose turnover is within Rs 100 crore and lauded the plan to set up a medical college for every three   constituencies. 
 
 Even as welcoming the move to install CCTV cameras in train coaches, N Sivanesan, member of railway users advisory committee,  , said, “There is disappointment for   as there is no announcement of new trains in the budget.” 
 
 State president of Tamil Nadu Makkal Urimai Katchi (TMUK) Poomozhi appreciated the plan to provide 5 lakh as medical insurance to 10 crore families, the allocation of Rs 16,713 crore for village sanitation and to give monthly dole of Rs 500 for TB patients across the country. 
 
 On the other hand, he criticised the allocation of Rs 3,073 crore for digital India scheme and said the scheme would lead to corruption. “The scheme would pave way for money swindling and corruption. The Union government should monitor the officials who are implementing this project,” he said. 
 
