BENGALURU: After nearly four decades, an incumbent government in   could form the government again. It’s not a certainty, but almost all pre-poll surveys show there is no major feeling of anti-incumbency against chief minister  .

 
  
 
 For that, the CM needs to thank the change in the methodology of estimating the IT sector’s contribution to state GDP in 2016. The new methodology sharply increased the size of the state’s IT sector, increased the state’s contribution to national GDP by 1.5 percentage points — in the process toppling West Bengal as the country’s 5th largest state — and allowed Siddaramaiah to increase his fiscal deficit (excess of government expenditure over revenue) in that year by a mind-boggling 50%.
 
 The resources he had from that year on was so much bigger than previously that he could literally splurge on his bhagyas (welfare schemes) and Bengaluru, and change the electorate’s mood. Pollster C fore’s founder   said in an interview last week that during a survey for panchayat polls in Karnataka in 2016, he had seen a lot of anger among people because of water shortage, power shortage and bad roads. But his recent surveys show a dramatic change in that mood because the CM had addressed all those concerns. The most important explanation for why the CM could do that perhaps lies in the IT bonanza.
 
 
 
 
 Presenting the annual budget in March of 2016, Siddaramaiah said: “I am happy to inform that our long-standing demand for correcting the estimation methodology for   (gross state domestic product) to take genuine contribution of the IT sector to our economy has been addressed...” He went on to say that following the correction, the IT sector’s contribution to the state GDP spiked from 9% to 18%, and that Karnataka’s contribution to the country’s GDP had increased from 5.5% to 7%.
 
 Siddaramaiah took full advantage of that state GDP leap. The fiscal responsibility and budget management Act recommends that the fiscal deficit to GDP ratio should not exceed 3%. Karnataka has long kept its fiscal deficit within that limit. What the increase in state GDP allowed Siddaramaiah to do was to sharply increase the fiscal deficit in 2016.
 
 The deficit went up by 50% to Rs 28,665 crore, and he still managed to keep the fiscal deficit to GSDP ratio to a till then record decadal low of 2.57%. Through most of the decade, it had been in the 2.8% to 2.9% range. What’s more, in the subsequent year, he raised the fiscal deficit by another 23% and yet managed to keep the fiscal deficit to GSDP ratio to 2.7%.
 
 It is this fiscal deficit surge that enabled the CM to launch, expand or make more attractive his schemes such as Anna Bhagya (free grains), Krishi Bhagya (financial assistance to farmers), Ksheera Bhagya (provide milk to students five days a week) and the water ATMs. It enabled some irrigation projects in drought-prone north Karnataka.
 
 Economists will worry about how this larger fiscal deficit is being financed. Public debt, especially open market loans, has surged and more so than the fiscal deficit. Even here though, the rise in the GSDP will provide some comfort, as what impacts financiers and investors is public debt as a proportion of GSDP.
 
