BHUBANESWAR: The   and suicide and law and order situation could dominate proceedings when the assembly reconvenes for the   from Tuesday. 

 Drinking water crisis, farmers' problems and corruption at the grass roots level are also some of the issues the opposition parties are lining up to take on the   government.
 
 The Congress has recently held its legislature party meeting to chalk out the plan of action for the assembly session, while the BJP MLAs are likely to meet on Monday to work out their floor plan.
 
 "The chief minister speaks about development but people in rural and urban areas are struggling to get adequate drinking water. There is nothing called law and order in Odisha. Besides, there are other issues which we will raise during the assembly session," opposition chief whip  .
 
 Briefing reporters here, BJP state president   slammed the state government over vacancies of doctors and teachers in hospitals and schools, respectively. "The state government has also failed to ensure adequate drinking water. Besides the Kunduli incident, we will also demand that the government place the inquiry commission report on the Gumudumah encounter," Panda said.
 
 Chief minister Naveen Patnaik is scheduled to chair the BJD legislature party meeting on Monday evening to discuss the party's strategy to counter the opposition attack. Senior BJD MLA Debi Prasad Mishra said the treasury bench is ready to discuss any issue moved by the opposition parties.
 
 Finance minister Shashi Bhusan Behera would present the annual budget for 2018-19 on March 23, which would be the last full budget before the next assembly and Lok Sabha elections, due in 2019. 
 
 The budget is expected to touch around Rs 1.20 lakh crore. The state government is expected to announce a number of sops in the budget keeping in mind the middle-class, farmers and women. Emphasis would also be given on infrastructure development like construction of rural roads and bridges and rural housing and electrification. 
 
 Keeping in mind the government's commitment to promote sports, the budget may have substantial financial allocation for the sector. The finance minister said the budget has nothing to do with the election. "We have always presented pro-poor and pro-people budget. Welfare of the people will the focus of the forthcoming budget," Behera said.
 
 
