CHENNAI: A traffic head constable used his training in emergency medical assistance to good effect on Sunday morning, saving the life of a biker who met with an accident at  .

 
 S  , 44, a head constable from the Egmore traffic enforcement wing, was manning the Pantheon Road stretch when he witnessed a man being thrown off his bike after ramming a hatchback around 9am. The helmetless biker fell almost 20 metres away, his head striking the road.
 
 Even as the victim lay unconscious, passersby rushed to the spot with some calling the ambulance service while others sprinkled water on him.
 
 Shivakumaran who learned cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) at his training class hurried past the bystanders to perform the emergency procedure. “We were taught this during our training class every month, with doctors telling us that it would save the lives of accident victims,” said Shivakumaran. “I did not hesitate and immediately administered CPR for a few seconds and the man regained consciousness.”
 
 The crowd cheered the head constable when the medical aid he provided revived the biker. The victim was identified as  , 35, who was on his way to  . A 108 ambulance soon arrived and he was sent to the   for further treatment. Doctors there also lauded the traffic policeman.
 
 Traffic head constables have undergone basic life support training offered by prominent hospitals. “We have been trained in techniques to control bleeding, handle seizures and react to symptoms of cardiac arrest. While attending to external injuries is an important part of the training programme, special emphasis has also been given to train cops in handling crowds during an emergency,” said Shivakumaran.
 
 Traffic policemen have been trained to handle emergencies on the road with minimum equipment. “In the case of road accidents, victims are in a state of shock and there are chances of them suffering a cardiac arrest. Without training, policemen are unable to handle the situation. First aid training has helped them handle such cases promptly and save lives,” said a senior traffic officer.
 
 * Shivakumaran said motorists should learnz the importance of wearing helmets. “Not many wear helmets saying that it's uncomfortable but the truth is it can save people’s lives," he said. Senior police officials lauded the head constable for his timely response.
 
