Let me confess, I love memes. I love memes of all kinds; politics, cinema even the totally pointless ones. I can’t wait to receive them on WhatsApp and constantly do hashtag searches on Twitter. I’m always looking for a good laugh. I’m told that when I was a kid I used to laugh hysterically at the antics of the graphic kirumis in toothpaste ads (they bring chisels and hammers, sit on a tooth and attack it. Hee hee hee)!

 Gleefully for me, there has been a profusion of funny stuff based on Tamil cinema and politics on the net. There are Twitter-based meme-handles, FB pages and most happily for me, YouTube channels. The guys behind Put Chutney, Smile Settai, Chumaanachiki, Madras Central and Temple Monkeys are all hilarious (The Temple   guys were at one point associates of mine and those ungrateful ******s trolled me in a video). Some of these channels also use humour to deliver hard-hitting views on social issues like the plight of farmers, methane extraction, etc.
 
 I am constantly amazed at the talent behind these memes and videos. These guys have literally no budget and yet their content is much more entertaining and engaging than many big-budget movies! Studios and production heads would do well to harness this talent. 
 
 At a time when mysterious things were going on in our government and nobody had a clue what was happening behind the scenes and even mainstream media were not asking the questions that the man on the street had, these guys boldly and humorously asked those very questions. May their tribe increase.
 
 There is only one caveat though. In their haste to be funny and need for visibility, these meme-makers can end up hounding a person to desperation. When someone fails at something or does something less than perfectly like we all do, they have not committed a crime and are already feeling low. To be reminded of it a million times can be a shattering experience. This is where a little bit of empathy can go a long way. Self-censorship is the best kind of censorship.
 
 But otherwise, bring on the thermocol!
 
 I firmly believe that the ability to make and take a joke is the mark of a truly liberal and democratic society.
 
 It speaks to the tolerance we have for another point of view, another set of beliefs, another approach to life.
 
 And that’s no laughing matter.
 
 (Views expressed above are the author's own) 
 
 
 
 
