BHOPAL: After students in Bengaluru,   are staging a unique demonstration across MP — frying ‘pakoras’ to protest   that  . To add a dash of spice to the battle, revenue minister Umashankar Gupta shot back that he, too, sold pakodas before joining politics and doesn’t see anything wrong in it.

 At 11 am on Wednesday, state Youth Congress president Kunal Choudhary sat in front of the state PCC office in Bhopal alongside a statue of former PM Indira Gandhi to fry “pakodas” as his supporters flavoured it with slogans. “Educated youth asking for employment,” Youth Congress activists shouted.
 
 “Before the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, PM Narendra Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah promised to generate 2 crore jobs a year for the youth. Now, after four years of his government, the Prime Minister is asking us to fry pakodas. There is no shame in frying pakodas, but it is shameless to make promises and fail to deliver,” Choudhary told TOI.
 
 The Youth Congress sold palak (spinach), potato and onion pakoras to passersby saying, “The educated youth has been insulted. Have parents given education to their children so they have no dreams? Have students toiled to get engineering and MBA degrees to start a pakoda enterprise?”
 
 Since Tuesday, the Youth Congress has held such pakoda protests in 90 towns and cities across MP, including Sehore, Rewa, Panna, Chhattarpur, Indore and Bhopal.
 
 Senior BJP leader Umashankar Gupta hit back at Congress, saying: “There is no shame is making and selling pakodas. I used to sell pakodas and fried snacks to earn my livelihood before joining politics. I have seen qualified engineers working as labourers. There is no shame in generating self-employment.”
 
 BJP MLA from Bhopal Madhya, Surendra Nath Singh, said that Congress and “some pseudo-intellectuals” failed to understand PM’s pakoda example. “The PM never asked engineers to sell pakoda. It was for unemployed youths who have no way to earn. It was a motivation for generating self-employment but some pseudo intellectuals, politicians and media twisted the debate,” alleged Singh.
 
 BJP leaders felicitated pakoda sellers in Bhopal, Sehore and Ashta to blunt Congress protests.
 
 
