NEW DELHI: Over 4.2 lakh cardholders weren’t able to avail rations under the public   system in the first month of the ration disbursal system being fully digitised and shifted to point of sale (POS) devices. These people constitute 16% of the total ration cardholders. A similar trend was observed in February, the second month. Just 12 days into March, the department of food and civil supplies is now keeping a close eye on the data watching out for absent beneficiaries.

 Meanwhile, the minister for food and supplies   has issued an order to the commissioner of the department and sent a copy of the same to the chief secretary saying that several names have been deleted from the ration cards, several thousand have been added to the existing ones, and several thousand new   have been made in the past two to three months without following the due process of law. He has ordered that the process for making new cards and the additions and deletions made to the existing ones lists to be stopped immediately and in case of any urgent changes, prior approval of the minister is must.
 
 It is important to note that each of the 4.2 lakh card holders has three to four people registered under the same card, the number of those who have failed to claim their ration is huge and a cause of concern. The department is now planning to draw up a list of these absent beneficiaries and send out notices to their addresses. 
 
 In Delhi, around 72 lakh people are registered for ration under the National Food Security Act and the enrolment of eligible beneficiaries was done after taking their Aadhaar number. 
 
 While the department refutes the possibility of bogus enrolments, the officials say that these people appear to be migrants who came to Delhi, got themselves registered, and then left the city. However, this is all a matter of speculation as the number of those who are not coming forward to avail ration is very high. 
 
 The department is proposing to cancel the cards of those who do not come to claim ration for three consecutive months and don’t respond to the notice to be issued after March. It then proposes to open the process for adding new cards by enrolling eligible beneficiaries.
 
 
