LUCKNOW: The pre-poll seat-sharing agreement between Janta Dal(Secular) and Bahujan Samaj Party ( ) remains one of the reasons why neither   nor his son HD Kumaraswamy, unlike 2009, took the offer from the BJP which fell short of the half-way mark in the   poll results on Tuesday.

 
 
 
 As Devegowda remained committed on his word to   to keep the saffron party, her bete noire at bay, the results brought joy for both regional satraps. 
 
 BSP got its first ever MLA N Mahesh, elected from   seat, in the southern state and their first in 25 years, while the   won as many as 11 out of 38 seat, piggybacking on support from Dalit-dominant outfit, in comparison to ending up as first or second-runner up in 2013 in the same corresponding seats.
 
 These seats include Mallavali, Mandya, Nagamangala, Hunsur, Sakaleshwara, Srirangpatna, Devanhalli, Ramnagara and Channapatna.
 
 
 
 
 Of them, both Ramnagara and Channapatna are of the highest consequence as it is here that Kumaraswamy was locked in high stake battles. 
 
 He won both, while defeating a five-time ex-Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA and BJP heavyweight candidate CP Yogeeshwara in Channapatna.
 
 For BSP, Kollegal holds a special place. It was where PM Narendra Modi embarked on his poll campaign on May 1, tearing into Rahul Gandhi but also curiously lavishing praises on Devegowda.
 
 BSP last won a seat in the state in 1994, when it bagged Bidar.
 
 "BJP was trying to woo us because they knew we would win this seat in Chamrajnagar and damage their seats by helping JDS in old Mysore. For me and BSP personally, it must be record of sorts of defeats and now a win. I started as a 4th candidate in 2004, then 3rd in 2009, 2nd in 2013 and now I finally won. Its a battle of perseverence all these 25 years that we   have fought for BSP in this state. We are glad that behenji and Devegowda ji got together to bring the two communities together like BSP-SP," Mahesh told TOI.
 
 While JDS won as many as 27 seats in Old Mysuru that has a combination of Vokkaligas, Dalits, Lingayats in the order of dominance, Congress could garner 13 and BJP got only 10 seats.
 
 
 
 
 JDS general secretary Danish told TOI that their alliance was solely based on social engineering, and described the joint win as "BSP-SP" moment of UP by-polls 
 
 "We worked very hard as a team to figure out seats where Dalits dominated Vokkaligas and vice versa and understood their problems. We brought them together and fielded from both parties candidates of different castes and it reaped benefits" said Ali.
 
 In 2013, while JDS had finished runner-up in these constituencies, BSP had polled more than 3,500-10,000 votes, denting the winning chances of Devegowda's men.
 
 BSP had contested on 18 seats, fielding 11 Dalits, four Lingyatas,a Maratha, Kuruba (OBC) and Muslim candidate each.
 
