LUCKNOW: Police arrested two men affiliated to Samajwadi Yuvajan Sabha, the youth wing of  , on Saturday on charges of dumping potatoes outside   and Raj Bhawan in Lucknow. The accused were identified as Ankit Singh of Tirwa, Kannauj and loader owner Santosh Pal of Thatiya, Kannauj.

 The accused had dumped the potatoes at the behest of Shivendra Singh, alias Kakku Chauhan, Sandeep, alias Rikki Yadav, Deependra Singh Chauhan, Sanju Katiyar,  , alias Bangali and Jai Kumar Tiwari, all of Kannauj district, said police.
 Shivendra had unsuccessfully contested election for nagar panchayat chairman from Kannauj while Jai Kumar Tiwari’s wife is district president zila panchayat in Kannauj.
 
 SSP Lucknow Deepak Kumar said that police tracked as many as 10,000 phone numbers used on the location out of which six were found suspicious. CCTV footage was also scanned to identify the persons involved in the mischief. “We succeededin securing footage in which the registration number of the loader was visible,” hesaid.
 
 “The police put Santosh’s phone on surveillance and picked up numbers on which calls were made to and received from. A team consisting of crime branch sleuths and surveillance cell tracked Ankit Singh. “Both were rounded up with the inputs we got from Kannauj police on Friday night,” saidKumar.
 
 Shivendra and Sanju purchasedthe potatoesfrom a cold storage owned by one Satish Jatav a daybefore theincident. Later, Deependra, Jai Kumar Tiwari and RikkiYadav gotthe potatoesloadedin a vehicle.
 
 SSP said Ankit and Santosh reached 1090 crossing on January 5 night carrying the potatoesin Santosh’s loader.
 
 
 
 Reacting sharply to the arrests, SP president   accused Lucknow police of going after harmless farmers after having failed miserably to arrest criminals committing crimes in broad daylight. “The police claim that the farmers arrested for dumping potatoes are SP workers. Yes, farmers are part of Samajwadi Party, what is wrong in that? They also have the right to protest peacefully against faulty government policies,” he said while addressing party workers at SP headquarters.   said the police have arrested poor farmers and are behaving as if they had done something so big that they deserve a Yash Bharti.
 
 
