MUMBAI: India may have   as compared to western nations but it has among the highest premature – and avoidable – deaths due to cancer. A study published this week states that India along with other   nations lose tens of billions of dollars in lost productivity due to these  .

 Everyone’s work contributes to the economy, and not working represents a loss to society. Taking off from this, a report was undertaken as part of the European Short Term Scientific Mission which assessed the loss of productivity in BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) countries. It found that India recorded a total productivity loss of $ 6.7 billion in 2012 due to cancer, representing 0.36% of the GDP that year. This was second only to South Africa which recorded a loss of $1.9 billion amounting to almost 0.5% of its GDP.
 
 While the cost per death of productivity lost in India was under $20,000 – the lowest of the BRICS countries, the greatest total productivity losses in India - $0.74 billion – came from the tobacco related lip and oral cancers. 
 
 Cancer claims 7 lakh lives every year across India, with another 10 lakh new cases detected annually. "The use of smokeless tobacco, often combined with betel quid, can be attributed to almost 50% of oral cavity cancers in India. Lip and oral cancers dominate lost productivity in India due to the relatively high prevalence of chewing tobacco. We know that tobacco results in healthcare costs of up to Rs 100,000 crore annually. This study looks at all the productivity loss resulting due to cancer," said Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi, professor of head and neck cancer in Tata Memorial Hospital, Parel.
 
 The loss of productivity in the BRICS economies due to cancer-related premature mortality is considerable in total cost terms - $46.3 billion, which represents 0.33% of combined GDP. In contrast to developed countries, many of the cancers which result in high lost productivity in the BRICS countries are amenable to prevention, early detection or treatment, found the study.
 
 Experts say India should focus on early detection of cancer; treatment costs and survival rates are better when cancer is treated in early stages. “In India and China, the lost productivity costs per death of leukemia are relatively high (5% of the total), perhaps because advanced, multi-modality treatments can be difficult to access. The costs and logistical difficulties in implementing screening and treatment programs highlight the importance of prevention in relation to cancer in the BRICS countries,” said Dr. P Gupta, director of Healis-Sekhsaria Institute for Public Health, Navi Mumbai and a co-author of the paper.
 
 
