Trichy: Right from the time when he was in Class VII, P Gangadharan always had a penchant for the food business, especially after watching his uncle excel in it. He liked it so much that education was only second priority for him. He made it a habit to go to his uncle’s eatery every evening after school to help out in whatever way he could. Eventually, it turned out to be his full-time job as he worked at the eatery for close to a decade. 

 After gaining enough confidence, Gangadharan rented a place at Mani Mandapa Salai in Tharanallur 10 years ago and started a vegetarian eatery under the banner of Yuvaraj Tiffin Centre, which has grown by leaps and bounds over the years. Known for its crispy adai dosai and parotta served with three different varieties of kurmas, around 150 to 200 people throng Yuvaraj Tiffin Centre both for dining and takeaway every day. “The business flourished right from day one and it enabled me to earn enough to own the place eventually,” Gangadharan recalled. 
 
 Speaking about the USP of his eatery, the 37-year-old said that he was only focused on getting the basics right. “Instead of experimenting, I just focus on what makes for authentic adai or chapathi or any other food item for that matter. But right from the preparation of dough and other ingredients, we do everything at our home without depending on someone else,” he said and credited much of his success to his mother and wife for helping out with the preparations.
 
 When asked about the in-demand items on the menu, he said, “People just love our adai dosai, served with coconut chutney, mint chutney and sambar, for its crispness and authenticity. Apart from this, eggless-parotta and chapathi are also sought-after because we offer channa kuruma, medium-spiced kurma and less-spiced kurma with them.” 
 
 He went on to add that since a lot of families came, he didn’t want to serve kurma that children would find too spicy. On the other hand, he stated that channa kurma was a favourite among the adults because it was “as good as non-vegetarian gravy.” 
 
 While adai and chapathi cost Rs 20 (two pieces), parotta is priced at Rs 7 a piece and the likes of dosai (one piece), idiyappam (four pieces) and idli (one piece) are charged Rs 25, Rs 20 and Rs 4 respectively. Though the eatery is open from 7.30 am to 12 midnight, it is in the evening when the place comes into life. “Our breakfast and lunch have decent response, but in the night, people swarm just to eat adai and parotta,” Gangadharan said. 
 
 But he has a word of caution for those who are hooked to parottas every day. “Though what I say may not be good from a business perspective, I would still ask people to refrain from eating parotta every day because it is not healthy – it’s okay if they have it every now and then,” he suggested.
 
 ————————————————————————————————
 
 Famous for: Adai with two varieties of chutneys and sambar and parottas with three varieties of kurumas
 
 When: 7.30 am to 12 midnight (adai and parottas post 6 pm)
 
 Where: Mani Mandapa Salai, Tharanallur
 
 
