In the latest episode of  , Jhanvi welcomes Rudra and Bhavya into the house. Bhavya turns the 'kalash' upside down and leaves her handprints on the wall. While they take her for the 'muh dikhai' ritual, Rudra is seen getting impatient. 

  and Om take him aside and begin to tease him. Meanwhile, Khanna informs Shivaay that   is nowhere to be found. Shivaay sends him somewhere.   looks at them and decides not to accept defeat. She gets a message and leaves. 
 
 When   goes to get Bhavya's gift from the room, Shivaay follows her. He tells her how Veer has been missing ever since their victory over him and he might do something big. Shivaay asks Anika not to step out of the house alone until they catch Veer. Anika tells him she feels secure with him and nothing would happen to her. 
 
  
  
 
 Shivaay plans to do something before Veer's next attack. Elsewhere, the latter is seen furious due to his defeat at the hands of the Oberois. Roop tells him she won't rest in peace till she sees Shivaay and his family ruined. 
 
 She decides to disclose the secret of the   to everyone, which would break Anika and Shivaay's relationship. Shivaay, on the other hand, wonders what could Svetlana's threat be about and who is helping Veer. 
 
 Meanwhile, Jhanvi is relieved that all the rituals have taken place the way they wanted. Pinky, however, warns them that they shouldn't take it easy as Shivaay would try to know the secret of the Kalyani Mills by any means. 
 
 Later, Roop tells Veer that she was the one who ignited fire at the Kalyani Mills as her brothers - Tej and Shakti - chucked her out of the house for having a baby out of the wedlock. While she begged them not to do so, they refused to listen. She further tells him that it was Mr. Kapoor, father of Svetlana, Tia and Saumya, who had suggested burning the mills to save themselves from going bankrupt. 
 
 Even though Shakti opposed the idea, Tej was in favour of it. However, making use of the opportunity, she was the one who went to Kalyani mills and set it on fire. She reveals that she did it cleverly, ditching the cameras and people around. But she was caught by Mr. Kapoor at the site. 
 
