AHMEDABAD: A city-based food joint moved court in order to prevent use of its name by a restaurant in Hyderabad.  , a restaurant in Vastrapur area, dragged an eatery that began in Hyderabad to court, when the latter adopted the same name.

  and Jasvirsingh Dhariwal had started the food joint ‘Jassi de Parathe’ and when their business picked up, they got the name registered as a trademark in 2004.
 
 In early 2017, they came to know that one ‘Jassi de Paranthe’ was operating in Hyderabad. According to their advocate,  , the Dhariwals came to know about this from internet. They filed a trademark suit in the city civic court demanding that the Hyderabad-based eatery should be restrained from using the same name because it is identical and deceptively similar to their trademark.
 
 Following the court notice, owners of Hyderabad’s Jassi de Paranthe contacted Dhariwals and verified their claims about the trademark and trading style. “They agreed not to use the trademark and gave an undertaking to this effect. They also undertook to adopt a new name of their firm which would not be identical to Jassi de Parathe,” advocate Mehta said. The court was informed about the decision taken by owners of Hyderabad’s eatery. The court was also told that they would undertake to apply for change of name to all concerned government authorities. This led to an end of the litigation.
 
 Jassi de Parathe is not the only food joint to take an exception to other restaurants using similar brand. A couple of years ago, Havmor Ice Cream Ltd dragged one Kamal Hotel Pvt Ltd from Hyderabad to court for opening an ice-cream parlour and restaurant in the name of Havmor.
 
 Advocate Mehta said that such litigation by hotels and restaurants has increased nowadays because the concept of assigning franchise has become popular, especially in services, and hence hotels and restaurants are very touchy about this. Jindal Hotels Ltd too took a legal route to stop Ahmedabad’s Bhavanbhai Bharwad from running a hotel in the name of Hotel Surya Palace. 
 
 Similarly, Ahmedabad’s famous farsan shop   approached court against its former employees using same title after leaving the job and opening a new shop. Famous Raipur Bhajiya and   too resorted to legal remedy to prevent others from using their brands.
 
 
