 Today, it may be under nobody’s control really but the traffic mess in the city is on everybody’s minds and lips. Even short films are being made on the long snarls. Thousands of minutes are lost every day, stuck bumper to bumper and Bengaluru is hungry for solutions. Politicians wooing voters will need to do more than point to the   tracks.

 
 
 : The civic society in Bengaluru is aware and active and ready to hit the streets or gherao the office. By right, it expects to be included in the decision making on important issues and doesn’t like surprises. It doesn’t appreciate secretive skywalks or projects being palmed off to partners of those in power. It demands transparency and has zero tolerance for opacity.
 
 
  Be it terror, crime or attacks on women, every modern city is looking at safety beyond policing. And at preventing such incidents rather than reacting to them. An activist being shot at her doorstep jolts the faith every citizen has in the system. Citizens want to hear what candidates plan to do to make them feel secure.
 
 
  The timing couldn’t have been worse for the khadi-clad clan to go with their arms stretched to voters. With temperatures soaring, water tankers are running amok in the bylanes of several Bengaluru localities. Water is a sensitive issue, not just in the   basin or   but also in the state capital. The failure of successive governments to ensure water supply in the city, especially in north, southeast Bengaluru and the newer areas, will rankle with voters.
 
 
 Notwithstanding the bludgeoning growth in the number of personal vehicles, a majority of Bengaluru still depends on public transport, with BMTC alone catering to at least 45 lakh people daily. The metro rail service too has come as a breather in several parts of the city but the overall public transport system, especially the lack of last mile connectivity, is a concern for every city commuter every day.
 
 
  Sweetsmelling roads with flowers kissing bitumen in autumn has become a distant memory for old-timers and fiction for the new migrants. Mounds of garbage and frothing lakes is more like it. How a garden city turned into a stink bomb is a story for another day; the focus is now on the inability of those in office to change the situation.
 
 
  Traditionally, the city has been a pensioners’ paradise, with the average Bengalurean working 9 to 5 in one PSU or the other, coming home to coffee and tindi and calling it a day by 9pm max. The new millennium changed all that. Now the average Bengalurean is perhaps a techie pulling in long hours and hitting the pub at night to unwind. But bars and pubs are allowed to remain open until 1am only on weekends; young Bengaluru says nightlife can’t be a weekend phenomenon.
 
 
  Compared to a decade ago, the power situation in the tech city has improved significantly, sometimes at the cost of other regions in the state, but long unscheduled power cuts still haunt citizens. Generators buzz into action across apartments and highrises but that’s hardly the solution.
 
 
  Cost of living has been one of Bengaluru’s bugbears for long. From petrol and diesel to food prices and rent, Bengalureans pay more than their counterparts elsewhere. And their income can’t keep up with the prices, they feel. While this is not completely the result of policies and actions by the state government, citizens will still want to know what it plans to do to ease their distress.
 
 
  Growing literacy rates, increasing digitisation and enhanced exposure makes Bengaluru one of the most spoken-about cities in the world. But its citizens are still spending hours and days to even get basic government services. They demand that their officialdom work for them efficiently and honestly, which brings their political bosses into focus too.
 
