It feels wonderful to win the Golden Elephant. Getting an award in today’s time is important for it makes people sit up and take notice. I will be happy if it wins the National Award as well,” director   had told Hyderabad Times after her film, Village Rockstars, won her the Best Director honour at the 20th International Children’s Film Festival held in Hyderabad last November 2017. And her wish came true four months later when the 65th National Film Awards were announced on April 13. “I was at a dinner party held for international delegates at 16th annual Indian Film Festival of Los Angeles when the news broke. It was past midnight when   filmmaker   came up to me and said, ‘You have won the National Award for the Best Feature Film’. I couldn’t believe it. I wanted to be doubly sure but there was no Wi-Fi on my phone. So I had to wait till I got back to the hotel to check if the news was indeed true. By the morning, my phone got jammed, flooded with hordes of congratulatory texts,” recalls the 36-year-old, speaking to us over the phone from her native village, Kalardiya, 50 km southwest of Guwahati. 
 On Thursday, Rima’s name was etched in the anals of Indian cinema as her film Village Rockstars became the second Assamese film to win the National Award since Jahnu Barua-directed Halodhia Choraye Baodhan Khai (The Catastrophe) was bestowed the Swarna Kamal for the Best Feature Film back in 1988. In a tête-à-tête with Hyderabad Times, the Assamese filmmaker shares the joy of winning a National Award for what’s “just my second film!”. Excerpts... 
 
 
 Honestly, after receiving accolades across festivals for Village Rockstars, I knew the film will do well. But I never imagined it to get a National Award. India produces so many films in a year and to be 
 chosen for an award among them is special in itself. I still won’t say that my movie was the best among 
 the nominees because that won’t be fair, but I am grateful for the recognition.
 
 
 
 (Smiles) The freedom I enjoyed while being in the middle of everything is what I truly cherished while making Village Rockstars. For instance, I could change a particular scene at the last moment if it didn’t feel right. For me, filmmaking is an organic process and till the time I don’t feel right, I don’t shoot. There was this scene in the film where the protagonist loses her favourite goat in the floods and she is looking for it all over. As dusk falls, she gets tired of searching for it and finally breaks down. I was thinking how to shoot that as I don’t like to dramatise things. We finally shot it in a dark frame with the light of a hand-held wooden torch where one can’t see her face. When you are alone and shouldering major creative responsibilities, the situation gives you the space to introspect; helps you get into a creative zone and explore. It’s not that you cannot do it with a creative crew, but for me it’s like that. I am sure every filmmaker has his/her own ways.
 
 
 Maybe I am one (laughs). But when you are an independent filmmaker making a movie on a shoe-string budget with just one camera and a handful of lenses and working with first-time actors in pivotal roles, you don’t really have a choice.
 I’m not a Konkona Sen, who’s turned director after being in the industry for long and knows what needs to be done and how. I haven’t even studied filmmaking in any school nor am I an actor. So there was this fear of what people will say if my films don’t work. Working alone always gives you a second chance. If I make a mistake, I get to realise it myself and rectify. That’s the freedom I like. Having said that, being surrounded by creative people is great; it definitely excites me. 
 
 
 The child actors in my film are from a small village in Assam and are not exposed to the dazzling world of cinema. They don’t know much about awards and stuff, but when they see people around paying attention to them and are celebrating, it makes them happy. Initially, when we went to a few film festivals, they used to ask me why people don’t come to pick us up from airports like they do for other film crews. But now, after the National Awards, they have realised that something big has happened and they are happy about it. I don’t want to expose them to the vagaries of fame so early in their lives. I want them to retain their innocence; in some cases ‘ignorance is really bliss.’ 
 
 
 Honestly, I didn’t know that it has been 29 years since the Assamese film industry got this award. I don’t have a filmi background, so there are a lot of things I don’t know about cinema. But it’s a great feeling to know that our film made history as we toiled for four years to make this film. This is a completely independent film that started off as an experiment purely based on my intuition. And after so much, when you get a recognition of this magnitude it’s overwhelming. 
 
 
 When I started off I didn’t know what to expect but had a strong belief in what I was doing. I would advise the newcomers to stick to their belief, because it’s you who knows what you want, the best. It took me two years to make my first movie — The Man With Binoculars (2016) — but it didn’t get any recognition. I didn’t lose heart and went on to make Village Rockstars. And we ran from pillar to post to make it a reality. One should be honest to his or her craft as a filmmaker. 
 
 
 
 
