Around 60% of the elderly who petitioned for welfare admitted to being physically abused by their children, while around a third said they “suffered mental torture”, according to the results of   India’s preliminary study on the effectiveness of the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act (2007), released on Monday. Most cases of physical abuse were reported from Punjab, mental torture from Kerala and neglect from  .

 The elderly in Punjab, Haryana, Kerala and Tamil Nadu, were surveyed, the states selected based on the preparedness to implement the Act and the number of cases filed and settled. Two districts from each state were selected based on the highest number of petitions filed — Chennai and Thiruvallur from Tamil Nadu.
 
 Since the Act came into being Kerala has seen the most number of cases at 597, while 212 cases have been filed in TN, says V Sivakumar, head, Tamil Nadu, HelpAge India.
 
 The top two reasons for filing the petition seem to be neglect by the children (more than half in Punjab, Haryana and Kerala cited this reason), while a fourth mainly from Kerala and TN stated physical abuse and mental torture as reasons.
 
 “This Act is one of the pioneering laws in India, meant to protect elders from neglect and abuse. We wanted to get a 360 degree view on its workings at the ground level, understand how it was being implemented in the States,” says Mathew Cherian, CEO, HelpAge India.
 
 “Over the past six years, we have carried out pan-India surveys among elders to ascertain the prevalence, extent and severity of elder abuse in India. Each year the number keeps increasing. Of those last surveyed, 50% reported experiencing abuse, the perpetrators being their own kin or carers. This Act is a tool of empowerment for such elders,” he adds.
 
 The study revealed that in Punjab and Kerala 70% cases were filed against sons. In Tamil Nadu, 21% of the cases were filed against  . But what was also found is that 57.4% of the cases were settled, 33.9% pending and only 8.7 % withdrawn.
 
 “We have had cases in Chennai where the revenue divisional officer has increased the monthly maintenance amounts given to the elderly when they have petitioned for it. So the Act is effective in the sense it is allowing seniors to fight for their rights. Most recently, there was a case of a 69-year-old’s monthly maintenance being increased by Rs 1,000 based on his appeal,” says Sivakumar, adding that in Chennai most petitions are property related. The survey results too show that maintenance related petitions were highest in Punjab and property related petitions were highest in Kerala and Tamil Nadu.
 
 
