LUCKNOW: In a twist in the out-of-court settlement of the  , ousted member of   (AIMPLB)   said on Thursday that the matter will be struck off from his agenda of talks with Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar and others.

 Nadwi said that he would wait for the Supreme Court judgement on the dispute. 
 
 The cleric also said that he was ready to re-join AIMPLB, if asked, only on the condition that members Asaduddin Owaisi, Kamal Farooqui, Qasim Rasool and Yusuf Machala are expelled from the board.
 
 Nadwi announced this through a video message posted on his official social media accounts, claiming that a large number of Hindu and Muslims are not ready for any form of settlement talks on the issue. 
 
 "People on both sides are becoming abusive and hampering their own health worrying what if a solution is reached in the   dispute. We have been looking forward to the SC judgment but there was no harm in trying out a peaceful settlement between the two communities. Since the majoritarain view on both sides is against it, I strike off the Ram Janmbhoomi-Babri Masjid dispute from my agenda," said Nadwi. 
 
 Moreover, Nadwi also said it was because his elders Maulana Rabey Hasan Nadwi (AIMPLB chief) and Maulana Arshad Madani are perturbed with such talks, that he has decided to shelve them.
 
 "Art of Living founder Sri Sri Ravi Shankar and I have met several times on the particular issue. Twice through video conferencing and twice in person. On Thursday when I met him, I told him that a large number of people are against my step and are heavily abusive towards me. He then said that the same is being done and said for him as well, which has been very discomforting, since all the talks were to only bring people together for peace," said Nadwi.
 
 The senior cleric and Sri Sri had met in Lucknow on March 1 and had previously met at Sri Sri's Bengaluru Ashram on February 8. It was after this meeting that AIMPLB had distanced itself from Nadwi with him putting in his resignation from the board on February 10.
 
 Nadwi's version comes as a surprise, since only on Thursday, according to Gautam Vij, director of Art of Living and attendees of the Thursday meeting, it had been decided that another round of meeting on the Ayodhya dispute will be held between Nadwi and Sri Sri in Lucknow on March 28. There was, however, no word on the status of the said meeting now. 
  
 Addressing his followers through social media in an almost 10-minute-long speech, Nadwi said that he had however formed the 'Humanity Welfare Baord' and will hold a meeting of various religious heads on March 8 in Lucknow. "The Ayodhya agenda will not be a part of this board but there is a need for an all religion inclusive organisation in the country, with there being none so far. This organisation will work for people's welfare across religions," he said.
 
 Nadwi also warned the AIMPLB of breach in its 'pure' ranks and asked for the expulsion of Owaisi, Kamal Faruqi, Qasim Rasool and Yusuf Machala for the purpose. 
 
 "Owaisi is using the board for his own purposes of dividing Muslim votes. Wherever he goes, that is the image of him carried by majority of Muslims, be it in Uttar Pradesh or Karnataka. The board should realise this and puritise itself again by removing him and the three others whose idea of Islam is beyond acceptable,"he said.
 
 Nadwi also advised the board to reduce its finances and budget being set aside and spent on fighting the Ayodhya dispute and claimed that the lawyer fighting on AIMPLB's behalf, Shahid Rizvi, had sent in a letter to the board saying he would not fight the case any longer. 
 
 
