A regular, mundane daily commute turns deadly when an insurance salesman gets entangled in a criminal conspiracy  Michael MacCauley (Liam Neeson) leads a contented family life and has been taking the same train to his office in New York City since the past 10 years. Things seem to be going fine when he suddenly faces financial insecurity and confides in his friend and ex-colleague, Detective Alex Murphy (Patrick Wilson). Back on the train, MacCauley is accosted by a stranger — a woman by the name of Joanna (Vera Farmiga) — who makes him an offer too tempting to resist. What follows next is a race against time as MacCauley faces the daunting task to save his family and uncover a web of lies. When you’re going for a Liam Neeson film, you go expecting some high octane action. And while this film may not have non-stop fast paced action, you won’t be disappointed with The Commuter either. Certain scenes have you on the edge of your seat and you’re frequently left wracking your brains along with MacCauley to figure out how to unravel this mystery. Neeson, of course, is superb as the ex-cop-turned-insurance salesman, who finds himself caught in an incredible web of lies and deceit. Farmiga is impressive as the woman who traps an unsuspecting MacCauley. Wilson has a limited number of scenes but stands out with his character. The fluid camera work ensures that the fight sequences are seamless and believable. The film also captures the NYC subway culture, which in some ways, is similar to the daily commute in large Indian cities where we have a set of travel buddies. Director Jaume Collet-Serra, who has teamed up with Neeson for the fourth time for the big screen, does a fine job of keeping the viewer engrossed thanks to a taut script, unexpected twists and turns, and solid performances by the lead actors. There is rarely a moment when the film loses momentum and you’re left guessing till the end. Overall, if you’re in the mood for some intrigue and mystery, and of course, are a Neeson fan, this one makes an interesting watch. 