HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad High Court on Friday issued a bailable warrant against South Central Railway general manager V K Yadav and directed the Hyderabad police commissioner to ensure that the GM is presented in court on Jan 25. 

 A bench of Justice   and Justice   gave this direction while hearing a contempt petition filed by P Pratap, son of a deceased railway employee from Renigunta in Chittoor district. The bench also directed  , senior divisional personnel officer of  's Guntakal division, to be present in court on Jan 25.
 
 Petitioner Pratap said that his father, R Govinda Swamy, was working as a trackman under the Guntakal division of SCR when he died due to illness on Sept 4, 2007. Though the   paid terminal benefits to his mother, he was not given a job under compassionate grounds. The authorities cited a May 1992 circular, issued by the Railway Board, which said that children from a second wife are not eligible for such a benefit. 
 
 Prataps's counsel, K Sudhakar Reddy, told the court that the circular was struck down by the Calcutta and Bombay high courts. Since the Railways did not challenge this order, it became final and the circular died a natural death. 
 
 Also, the Central Administrative Tribunal and the Hyderabad High Court had directed the Railway authorities not to rely on this circular because no child, whether born to the first wife or second, can be declared or treated as illegitimate. Both the CAT and the Hyderabad HC had directed the Railways to consider Pratap for a job under compassionate grounds. Despite eight weeks given to the authorities to comply with the HC order issued in July 2017, the authorities did not comply, Sudhakar Reddy said. 
 
 The bench headed by Justice Kait had directed the GM to be present in court on Jan 19. But he did not appear and his counsel filed a plea urging the HC to dispense with his presence. The bench dismissed the plea and issued a warrant against the GM, asking him to come to court on Jan 25 with an affidavit explaining the reasons for his failure in complying with the court order. 
 
 
