PUNE: State settlement commissioner   has set a deadline of three months for the five districts, including Pune, to release 7/12 extracts with digital signatures online. 

  
  
 
 The other districts are: Satara, Kolhapur, Sindhudurg and  . “All these districts have less than 70% updation and the target has been set so that all these districts can go online at the same time,”   told TOI on Wednesday. The online 7/12 extracts with digital signatures will not require any government authentication for any purpose.
 
 Chief minister   on Tuesday launched the service providing online 7/12 extracts with digital signatures for 30,000 villages. The chief minister said that the remaining districts should go online by August.
 
 “In the district, only five talukas have uploaded land record documents online, the remaining should be done in the next three months. However, there are several issues pertaining to Haveli taluka as there are multiple owners of one land. The same is the case with Konkan division where the land parcels are small but the owners are too many and the verification process is time consuming. The respective collectors have been told to complete the process on priority so that the August deadline is met,” Chockalingam said.
 
 Chockalingam said the digitisation process started way back in 1990s and subsequently, land management information system and computerising the entire data was undertaken and completed. With 43,000 villages spread over 357 talukas in the state, work of the remaining 13,000 villages have to be completed in the coming three months. Currently there are a total of 2.5 crore 7/12 extracts in the state.
 
 State government department officials said that providing 7/12 extracts with digital signatures was a huge task. An official said that in the last two years, a total of 16,000 talathis, who did not have any orientation for computerisation, were trained for the task and these talathis, in return, have made the 7/12 extracts available online.
 
 After initiating the process of providing 7/12 extracts with digital signatures online, the Maharashtra revenue department has now undertaken digitisation all land maps in the state.
 
 After the records go online, officials said that they will clear the old data as it would be difficult to upload the updated data. Under the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code Act, there is a promulgation regarding mutation entries which states that irrelevant data can be removed. 
 
 Chockalingam said the next level would involve further integration with maps and this would start with Mumbai and Pune while also seeking possible integration with banks wherein direct data exchange can be made possible.
 
 
