Can burger and fries be healthy? A recently launched brand, simply called Burger ‘n’ Fries, certainly promises that. Its vegan, gluten-free burgers come with a calorie load of 200 calories, about 300 less than your average burger.

 
 Burgers aren’t the only junk food getting ‘healthified’. Just check out the snacks section at any Indian supermarket, and you’ll spot everything from diet bhel to baked chips and soya snacks. But will replacing your bhujiya with popcorn really do anything to check growing waistlines? Read the fine print on the label, say nutritionists. While a bhujiya comes loaded with salt, sugar and trans fat, most packaged popcorn is liberal with fat and salt. In fact, packaged snacks, even the ‘roasted’ variety, are high in salt and other additives and preservatives. 
 
 A 2016 study conducted by  , Public Health Foundation of India and the Centre for   in India on 5,796 packaged food products revealed huge differences in the salt content, with some packets containing almost 10 times more salt than others. 
 
 Two-thirds of the products had not listed sodium in the nutritional information panel, which is a non-adherence of   guidelines. Consuming more than a teaspoon of salt a day has been linked to high blood pressure and risk of cardio-vascular disease but awareness among consumers is low, and snack manufacturers are doing little to change this.
 
 Nutritionist   says even if packaged snacks are baked, air-fried or roasted she doesn’t recommend them. “Plenty of salt, masala and soda is added to them to make them tasty. And most of the so-called roasted snacks are not roasted. They are fried and then a little bit of oil is extracted through suction method,” says Agarwal. “It is better to eat a snack made at home, even if it is fried,” says  , senior clinical nutritionist and dietician, Max hospital, Delhi. 
 
 If a health snack makes you feel less guilty than having samosa or pakoras, here’s some food for thought. A 50g pack of a branded “diet namkeen” contains around 500 calories, while a 30g samosa loads you up with 300 calories. A 100 portion of packaged popcorn has more than 500 calories. So, count before you consume. 
 
 
