MUMBAI: After railways, the BEST is the second biggest lifeline for Mumbai commuters and services were heavily disrupted during the bandh on Wednesday. Protesters pelted stones and damaged 90 buses on more than 50 routes across the island city and suburbs, leaving four bus drivers injured.

 A total of 173 BEST buses were damaged in the past two days, with 87 buses targeted on Tuesday. Sources pegged the losses incurred by the cash-strapped undertaking to around Rs 2.12 crore. This comprises the Rs 12 lakh losses due to bus damage and Rs 2 crore revenue loss due to tickets not being sold.
 
 The MSRTC, which runs a fleet of 18,000 state-run buses, played safe on Wednesday as it had 187 buses damaged a day earlier in various incidents of stone pelting across Maharashtra. On Wednesday, the number of buses damaged were 26.
 
 The losses estimated due to damage was around Rs 20 lakh while the overall revenue losses due to buses not operating and tickets not sold was close to Rs 30 crore, said sources.
 
 The BEST drivers injured, mainly due to glass shards hitting them during the stone-pelting on Wednesday, were identified as A V Garje, Arun Mirgal, Nitin Waghmare and Shashikant Gosavi. They were out of danger, said an official. “Our buses have been sent to the repair workshop and we will be estimating the actual losses after identying the entire damage to the buses,” said BEST chief public relations officer  .
 
 
  He said that the undertaking ran a fleet of 3,208 buses despite the threats of a bandh and attacks from protesters. “Our drivers braved all odds and ran the buses in every nook and corner of Mumbai,” he said.
 
 The areas where the buses faced major rasta rokos were   pipe line,   (Bandra) and   in Ghatkopar, he said. “We continued our operations and did not suspend it despite the incidents,” he said.
 
 “We have praise for the bus undertaking, which ran shorter routes from close to airport to the nearest railway station to cater to those who were stranded,” said a commuter. Another commuter said that he feared travelling in the red bus as it was a “soft target” and there were chances of people pelting stones. “The number of passengers was also down and the undertaking must have taken a hit when it comes to daily earnings,” he said.
 
 An official said that BEST earns around Rs 3.25 crore from ticket sales on a normal day. 
 
