JAIPUR: He walked out from the   International Airport in Delhi and screamed in joy after spotting his brother   (26) along with his childhood friend Prabhat Singh Chauhan.

 After suffering mental agony, harassment and pain in an atmosphere of uncertainty following his confinement of more than three months at Wadi-al-Duasar city, almost 600km away from Riyadh in Oman,   Singh Rathore (22) was a happy man on Wednesday evening.
 
 He could not prevent his tears when he was hugged by his elder brother Harshvardhan, childhood friend Prabhat and his nephew  . But, after settling in quickly, the first thing that Vikramaditya requested to his brother was to let him drive the car to Jaipur. And he was allowed his freedom drive. “The flight from Oman to Delhi was delayed by four hours. He landed at 4 pm,” said Harshvardhan on Wednesday.
 
 TOI also spoke to Vikramaditya while they halted at Behor on the way to Jaipur.
 
 “The second day after I was sent to my employer, I was treated as a driver and domestic help. It was then I realized that I was cheated by my agent Mukesh Singh Chauhan. I was lucky as I could narrate my plight to my family over phone before my employer snatched away my cellphone. I was not been given salary and was told that it was being directly credited into the account of my agent,” said Vikramaditya.
 
 He now feels that looking for a job in countries like Oman was a mistake. “I will advise youth, labourers and others to first enquire properly about the agent and the job before making a final decision,” he said.
 
 Despite his ordeal, in which he had also handed over his gold chain to the agent, Vikramaditya is happy that his misery has come to an end. “I am happy to be back. I will soon meet my parents who must have prayed every day for my safe return,” he said.
 
 Back home in Jaipur, Vikramaditya’s mother Ichraj Kanwar (58) was excited and waiting for the arrival of her son.
 
 “Baati daal banayi hai, mataji ro aashirwad chora ke kaam aayo hai (I have prepared daal and baati. The blessing of goddess helped my son),” said an elated Ichraj Kanwar at her Jaswant Nagar residence in Khatipura locality in Jhotwara, speaking to TOI.
 
 His father   (61) said, “We were expecting him to land at Delhi at 10 am. However, my son Harshvardhan said that the flight was delayed by four hours. Hopefully, we will have dinner with him.”
 
 Other than Rathore’s family, a large number of neighbours had also gathered at the house to welcome Vikramaditya.
 
 “Ab to khana Vikram ke saath hi khayenge (Now, we will have dinner with Vikram),” said Mahaveer.
 
 
