GURUGRAM: The husband of the former   of   village in Gurugram was shot dead on Sunday morning by unknown assailants when he had gone for a morning walk. 

 A property dealer by profession, 37-year-old Sanjay Kumar was for all purposes the village sarpanch during his wife’s tenure between 2011 and 2016.
 
 On Sunday, he had gone for a walk on the outskirts of Kharkhadi village, which is adjacent to Tatarpur, along the KMP expressway when he was murdered around 8am. Police sources said the accused, around 5-6 youths, came in a Hyundai i20 and a Royal Enfield Bullet and fired around 15 shots at Kumar, five of which hit him on his head. After he was hit, he ran into the fields, but was gunned down. The accused then fled in the direction of Jhajjar. 
 
 Passersby noticed him and rushed him to Manesar’s Rockland Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Cops were alerted, who took the body to Gurugram for a post-mortem. The body was then handed over to his family.
 
 Sources said the accused knew Kumar’s daily routine, as he usually carried a licensed revolver with him except on his morning walks. 
 
 On Sunday afternoon, villagers blocked Pachgaon chowk, which is near Tatarpur and on NH8, for a few minutes demanding immediate arrest of the accused. The protest was called off after the intervention of authorities. 
 
 An FIR was registered at the complaint of Kumar’s brother Lakhpat Dayma at Bilaspur police station the same day under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intent) of IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act. Dayma said he didn’t know who was responsible for the murder, police said.
 
 “As of now, the identity of the accused is unknown. The medical report is still awaited. A team of the Bilaspur police station, along with the crime branch in Bilaspur, is jointly investigating the case,” SHO Arunkumar told TOI.
 
 Kumar’s friend Rohit said , said that he would have not been killed if he was carrying his gun. “The killers must have known this which is why they attacked him during the walk,” he said.
 
 Tatarpur sarpanch Virender Sharma said Kumar was planning to go to Ullawas village with relatives to find a groom for his daughter on Sunday. He is survived by his wife and two children.
 
 “After coming back from Ullawas, we were all supposed to go to Ghitorni for a wedding reception. He was a jovial person and was respectful and friendly towards everyone. He did not have any enmity with anyone in the village, and this must have been done by someone not from our village,” Sharma said.
 
 
