KOLKATA: Former students of   criticized the defacement of Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s name on the Roll of Honour on the campus, wondering if politics had been turned into cheap gimmickry or if the act was a reflection of the politics of intolerance being practised across the country. Such vandalism indicated that dialogues and debates were yielding ground to violence and coercion, they felt.

  
  
 
 Condemning the act, former state advocate-general  , a 1958 pass-out from the economics department at the institute, said, “Mookerjee was the only cabinet member who could stand up against and talk eye-to-eye with Nehru. He is the one who fought with   to prevent Bengal from being included in Pakistan during the Partition. If his name is defaced, we are forgetting our culture, history and tradition.”
 
 “The evils perpetrated by some political engineers today are being avenged by other manipulators in a perverted manner. Or, are some people carrying out a reverse sabotage? At least, the Taliban claimed responsibility for their misdeeds, but some others seem to be mere cowards,” said  , who studied mathematics at Presidency in 1969 after ranking 13
  in higher secondary exams.
 
 Economist and former IIM professor Anup Sinha expressed his disgust at the vandalism: “Such acts show immaturity. It would have been much better had they debated on Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s contributions.” Echoing him, Amitabha Roy, a lecturer of political science, called it a show of intolerance. “The name inscribed on the wall is that of an alumnus. His ideology may be challenged, but that is a matter of debate in a democracy. It doesn’t justify any defilement of the inscription. Such behaviour is a show of intolerance.”
 
 Former sociology professor Bula Bhadra agreed: “This is a despicable, cowardly act and everybody should protest against this culture of vandalism, suddenly on the rise.” “Whoever have done it on the sly under the cover of darkness,” added the former teacher at Calcutta University.
 
