BENGALURU: Over 70 per cent voter turnout was recorded on Saturday in the high-stakes   assembly elections amid projections that main contenders   and   are in a neck-and-neck race. In Bengaluru Urban though, the turnout was a dismal 50 per cent, much lower than 57.6 per cent in 2013. The counting will be taken up on May 15.

 
 The high turnout was recorded despite overcast skies across the state and heavy rain in some parts. In 2013, Karnataka registered a 71.3 per cent voter turnout, highest for the previous 35 years and a good increase compared to 64.8 per cent turnout in the 2008 assembly polls.
 
 "As per data available so far, 70 per cent voter turnout has been recorded across the state. We'll know the exact figure only after mustering EVMs and the final data is compiled," chief electoral officer Sanjiv Kumar said a couple of hours after polling ended across the state. Repolling has been ordered in a booth in Lottegollahalli of Hebbal assembly constituency on Monday.
 
 Barring Bengaluru Urban district, all other 29 districts recorded an improved turnout compared to the last elections. Dakshina Kannada reported the highest with 78 per cent.
 
 The fate of nearly 2,644 candidates in 222 of 224 assembly constituencies was sealed in Saturday's polls that passed off peacefully amid tight security. Election in two constituencies, Jayanagar and Rajarajeshwarinagar, both in Bengaluru, have been deferred due to death of a candidate and electoral malpractices respectively.
 
 Polling began on a brisk note at 7am and the turnout ebbed in the afternoon before regaining momentum in the last few hours. Age did not deter 111-year-old seer Shivakumar Swami of Tumukuru's Siddaganga Mutt, who was among the early voters, besides a host of political leaders and celebrities. There were reports of distribution of cash to voters heading for polling stations involving candidates of all major parties. At a couple of places polling was delayed by a few minutes following malfunctioning of EVMs.
 
 Former PM   had to wait for nearly an hour when he went to vote at a polling booth in Holenarsipura of Hassan district along with his son H D Revanna and other family members because of an EVM malfunction.
 
 
 
 Four voters died of heart attack during polling in Karnataka. In Yelburga town of Koppal district, 88-year-old Rudramma Hadpad collapsed and died inside the polling booth, moments before voting. While Anni Achari (70) died at Handinje in Belthangady, Harish (40) of Bantwal taluk, died at Kulalu Talengala polling booth. In Mulwad village in Vijayapura ditrict, Bheemappa Bajantri (33) died some time after casting his vote at Mulwad polling booth.
 
 An old woman attempted suicide at a polling station in Devagiri village of Haveri district as she was upset at the lack of basic facilities in her village.
 
