BENGALURU: The case of   farmer D K  , who's got the go-ahead for a   transplant through a willing donor, has brought hope to many patients like him. 

  Kumar had petitioned the high court after his appeal for a transplant was rejected by the state organ transplant approval committee in 2017. Following the HC's intervention, Kumar petitioned the committee again and the government approved his request earlier this week. Girijamma, said to be his relative, was willing to donate one of her kidneys to him. 
 
 Anil Srivatsa, a kidney donor who runs the Gift of Life organisation which promotes organ donation, said Kumar's case is a boost for many patients. "The committee's job is to make sure there is no financial transaction between the donor and recipient. But it shouldn't come in the way of their right to live," he says.
 
 He recalled the case of a Kolkata woman who sought approval for a kidney donation in a Bengaluru-based hospital. The committee asked her to get a no-objection certificate from  . "Why do we need an NoC when both the donor and recipient are Indians," Srivatsa wondered. According to him, such stringent laws are only making patients run around to get documents from government departments.
 
  
 
 
  Nephrologist Dr S Sundar said Kumar's case is not the first of its kind. In 1996, a grandfather was willing to donate one of his kidneys to his grandson but his appeal was rejected. The high court then stepped in and upheld the donor's appeal, and the committee approved the same. 
 
 As per data available with TOI, the committee rejected 24 cases since 2015-16 and 32 are pending for lack of documents. There are over 2,000 patients waiting for cadaver organ transplant (through brain-dead patients) at the government-run cadaver organ transplant unit, Jeevasarthakate. Dr  , chairperson of the organ transplant approval committee, said they make sure the act is followed in the best interests of the donor and recipient and that no money is involved in the process. 
 
 
