Nothing can be worse than not being able to do your everyday tasks smoothly. The same problem was faced by 36-year-old Ameet because of being overweight. Ameet not only felt lazy and tired all the time but also started facing several health issues. He finally decided to take charge of his health and took a four-month break so as to focus on his health completely. To his utter happiness and of everyone around him, he finally did it. Here’s his journey from fat to fit.

 Ameet Singh Khambay
 
 
  Digital Sales Head
 
 
 36 years 
 
 
 118.5 kilos
 
 
 31 kilos
 
 
 3.5 months 
 
 Not being able to do my everyday tasks without feeling fatigued became a big problem for me. Not only did I feel lazy but my extra weight also invited many health issues which made my life difficult. I finally decided to do something about my weight and took a four-month break to focus on my body and make myself healthy.
 
 Read here : 
  
 
 Omelette of eight eggs (seven egg whites + one whole egg) with orange juice
 
 One boiled chicken piece, one roti, dal/vegetable 
 
 
 Chicken salad and protein shake
 
 
 A small paratha. Being a punjabi, it's difficult for me to stay away from paranthas for long. 
 
 
 I do strength training, cardio and functional training.
 
 
 Boiled food is what I stick to when it comes to eating low-calorie food. 
 
 
  My fitness trainer told me it's important to have correct goals. Track your progress on weekly basis for better understanding of how you are performing. 
 
 
  Looking at my old pictures keeps me active and motivated. 
 
 
  Constantly working towards my goal is what helps me to stay focused. 
 
  You feel fatigued all the time.
 
  My one and only goal is to have a healthy body. A healthy body with the right muscle mass and correct body fat percentage. 
 
 
  I have stopped having junk food, colas and beverages. I do not eat any packaged food. Home cooked food is what I stick to. I also make sure I drink five litres of water every day. 
 
 
 I wasn’t able to do basic day to day activity as I felt tired very quickly.
 
 
 Good health gives you FREEDOM.
 
