GHAZIABAD: A video showing an inmate of   jail alleging harassment at the hands of prison officials has gone viral on social media, prompting his relatives to move court seeking intervention. 

 The prisoner, Himanshu, has been lodged at Dasna jail in   since 2009 in a murder case. In the 2.15-minute-long video, Himanshu could be seen pointing at injury marks on the back and chest that he said had been caused by jail officials beating him up. The video, shot on Monday while Himanshu was being taken to a court in connection with another case, also shows the prisoner saying he had been placed in the jail canteen for the past four years because of his good behavior and had been depositing Rs 25,000-30,000 daily with the jail administration. “After the new jail superintendent joined office last year, he started demanding Rs 50,000 daily from me. When I refused to pay the amount, he along with the jailor and two constables started harassing and beating me up. I was also removed from my duty at the canteen and put in solitary confinement. They have threatened me with dire consequence if I open my mouth about the harassment,” Himanshu says in the video.
 
 Jail superintendent   refuted the allegations and said the prisoner had been involved in anti-social activities even inside the jail. Maurya claimed disciplinary action had been taken against Himanshu and an inquiry would be conducted to find out how he got access to a mobile phone to shoot the video in the court compound. 
 
 “There were complaints against him that he had been exploiting other inmates and so, he was shifted out of the canteen in November last year. Since then, he had been making several attempts to get back the job. His brother Sonu is also lodged in the jail and was deployed in the administrative office. He, too, was removed from there after he was found trying to sneak in some prohibited material,” Maurya said.
 
 The official said his seniors in the prisons department had sought an explanation on the matter and he would soon submit his clarification to them.
 
 District magistrate Ritu Maheshwari said: “I have not seen the video so far, although I have been informed about it. An inquiry will be ordered if the issue is brought to me. I have not received any complaint so far.”
 
 
