PATIALA: With summers set for a comeback, residents could face a major water crisis as the authorities of the   (PMC) haven’t yet begun work on the ground to supply the canal water for drinking and domestic purposes. The   is yet to submit a proposal to the Bhakhra Main Line (BML) for the required supply under the ‘Canal based drinking water’ project in Patiala.

 The state government had already announced to provide canal water to the residents who have been surviving on underground water for many years for which water from tubewells is being provided to them.
 
 The officials of Municipal Corporation claimed to have submitted a proposal to the state government to provide around 60 cusecs of water from the canal that can cater to the residents. As per sources, the state government might provide this water to Patiala from the total share of the state. The proposal to allocate the water to Patiala needs approval from all the three states including  , Haryana, and Rajasthan. The officials from all these three states need to hold a meeting and approve the allocated share of water.
 
 “We haven’t got any proposal from the officials of the Municipal Corporation yet. There are a number of hurdles to get the approved share of canal water for the city. Under the Bhakhra Main Line (BML), Punjab has 3108 cusecs of share and the water to Patiala will be allocated from this share. But the approval of all the three states is required,” said, executive engineer, Rakesh Sharma. 
 
 The canal-based water treatment plant project was proposed by chief minister Amarinder Singh during his previous term. The CM after coming to power after ten years announced the revival of the project very soon for which funds were also allocated. Interestingly, the residents here do not get   from canals despite the fact that the Bhakhra main line crosses through three different parts of the district including one from Nabha road, and others from   and Bhadso roads.
 
 The proposed canal-based water treatment plant worth Rs 45 crore will now cost Rs 250 crore approximately. The mega project was to be set up in two parts to supply treated canal water. Water was planned to be drawn from the Bhakra Main Line crossing that originates from the Nangal dam and passes from the boundaries of Patiala. Similarly, the second part of the project was proposed to be set up at Jassowal village, 7 km from Patiala, using around 30 acres of land.
 
 Now the project would cost Rs 708 crore under which the city will be divided into two categories with two zones each in Patiala 1 and Patiala 2. Already the Patiala district has a share of 35 cusecs water for irrigation and lake purposes. However, under the new canal water drinking project, 60 cusecs of water will be allocated separately. 
 
 “The project will be made for 30 years and the water allocation will be done till 2045. The underground reservoirs will be constructed for which land is being identified. The proposal for allocation of water has been sent to the state government and as soon we get the nod the work will be started over this,” said, PMC superintendent M M Sial.
 
 
