LUCKNOW: The unhealthy green carpet of water hyacinth on the   is back. Coupled with high pollution levels, it has led to a decline in the amount of dissolved oxygen in the river, affecting aquatic diversity.

 In a recent survey by river expert   and his team, it was found that dissolved oxygen levels in the Gomti had dipped to 1.2 milligramme per litre against the standard of 4 mg/litre for fish to survive.
 
 Water hyacinths prevent sunlight from reaching aquatic plants and destroy them. As oxygen level in the water body drops, plants and animals suffocate. Some fish species either die or migrate.
 
 In 2012, around 15 species of fish were found in the Gomti; now it has been reduced to six.
 
 Dutta said that useful fish like pabda, rohu and catla were missing from the Gomti. Most fish found were of small size regarded trash fish by fisherman and released back in water. 
 
 TOI had reported on the problem of water hyacinth, frothing and dip in oxygen levels twice last year. The problem continues, with river water crossing 'severe' level.
 
 "We carried out a fishing experiment for three months to study pollution levels and hyacinth menace. It was found that now only six fish species exist in Gomti against the earlier 15," said Dutta.
 
 Direct discharge of sewage and 16 obstructions over a span of 32 km of the river have triggered the perennial problem of water hyacinth, deteriorating the quality of water.
 
 River expert Prof   from   said interruption in continuous perennial flow has led to stagnation leading to growth of weed and hyacinth in the river.
 
 Water hyacinths indicate an 'unnatural ecosystem', said Singh. Hyacinth either grows due to stagnation or eutrophication-excessive richness of nutrients in a water body after run-off from land or due to high pollution levels.
 
 "Hyacinth leads to changes in water chemistry. As there is a dip in oxygen, fish come to the surface for it. At the surface, water hyacinth obstructs oxygen, leading to death," he added.
 
 
