NEW DELHI: They wanted to provide   to the children of  . This passion led the Yadavs to come up with an ambitious plan to expand the family-run   on a plot near their house.

 Anita Yadav, the woman who was shot dead by a group of men on Monday, had inherited the school from her father-in-law. She was at the helm of affairs and had purchased six bighas land to expand the school to accommodate more pupils.
 
 Family members said that her determination to not return the land to the man from whom she had allegedly bought the plot led to the dispute that resulted in her murder. Anita had even done a PhD in education to further her interests.
 
 The woman’s mother, Chandrakanta (80), is still trying to cope with the loss of both her children. Her son’s body was found in an open plot in Haryana on Tuesday morning.
 
 The victim’s husband, Ashok Yadav, originally a resident of  , had set up the school with his father 23-years ago and named it after his daughter Rachna. His father employed Anita as a teacher and later got her married to Ashok. Since then, she had taken the responsibility to get the school recognised till Class VIII and made it among the best of six such institutions in Ghuman Hera.
 
 Two years ago, Ashok told his brother-in-law, Jai Kishan, a realty agent, that he needed land to expand the school. Kishan, who was running the bus service for the school, put them in touch with his friend Naveen. Initially, Naveen hesitated in giving the land but later agreed to mortgage it.
 
 “Naveen agreed to repay the loan within a year and said that by then he would convince his family to sell the land to us. However, after a few months he stopped paying the interest and demanded the land back,” Ashok said.
 
 Family members and neighbours claimed that Naveen had had many arguments with Anita over this during which he allegedly threatened to kill them. “He was under pressure from his family to get back the plot,” said a family member.
 
 The Yadavs had kept this deal a secret from their children. Their elder daughter is pursuing MBBS from Bengaluru, while the younger one is a law student in Noida. Their son is in Class XI. “We wanted to keep them away from all this. We have a high regard for education,” said Yadav. Jai Kishan is survived by his wife and a nine-year-old son, who stay at Dariyapur village.
 
 Police said that CCTV footage recovered from outside the school shows the vehicle in which the killers had arrived and efforts are being made to track its owner.
 
 
