BHOPAL: The state government decision to   will give a  , freeing them from worries of uncertain future. Over one lakh people in   stand to gain from the announcement on Tuesday, which came 14 years after last such initiative in 2004. An average plot of 1,000 sq feet would cost about Rs 1.50 lakh as per estimates.   (BMC) chief city planner Subashish Banerjee said, “There are an estimated 335 illegal colonies in Bhopal. Of these, 98 illegal colonies are in the process of regularisation.” Notification for the same was advertised recently, he said. Locations along Kolar, Ashoka Garden, Semra, Neelbad, Awadhpuri, Bairagarh, Narela and colonies on the city outskirts are likely to benefit. Going by the announcement, all illegal residential constructions before December 31 in 2016 would be legalised. As per data released by urban development three days ago, there are 770 illegal colonies in Bhopal. 

 “Colonies on government land, green belt under FTL zone or marked for transportation needs would not be regularised,” clarified Banerjee, who recently took over charge as chief town planner. Bhopal master plan 2005 would be the basis of the demarcation. A number of constructions in new Bhopal are along demarcated ‘main’ roads under the master plan. An inquiry report into such construction is pending with the government. If implemented in letter and spirit, hundreds of posh residential and commercial structures would be demolished, sources said. According to rough estimates, each of the colony would be legalised after a penalty of Rs 15 per square foot. MP municipal corporation colonisers rules of 1998 provides for penalisation of coloniser. 
 
 Surveyors assess development — including   Except for areas along Karond, majority of these colonies do not have 24x7 water supply, sources said. “Many colonies have been recently included in civic corporation limits. Some of colonies in central Bhopal have been constructed in last two decades. They, too, would benefit from the proposal,” said a BMC official. Sources said the benefit to slum-dwellers from the move is yet to clarified by the government notification. CREDAI representative Manoj Meek said, “As an organisation, we do not support illegal colonies. There are economic issues lead to such measures. The government has its own take on the issue. However, those in organised building construction do not gain from the same. There has to be a level playing field. Government taxation and other fees should be reduced for organised sector.” 
 
 “Efforts of the government should also ensure that there are no further illegal constructions,” said CREDAI former president Vipin Goel.
 
 
 
 
