PUNE: The Director General of Defence Estates ( ) has asked the Principal Directorates of Defence Estates (PDDEs) to clarify whether the cantonment roads closed by the   (LMA) were being used by civilians and vehicular traffic.

 Shalini Pandey, deputy director general (Cantts), wrote to all PDDEs on May 7 pointing out ambiguities in the lists they have submitted to the DGDE regarding the roads closed by the local authorities “without following due procedure – either completely or partially.”
 
  In some cases, A-1 defence land is mentioned as `C land while in most cases, where A-1 land is closed, the local authority has simply termed them as “Unit Line Road”’, ostensibly to justify the closure.
 
 Pandey has requested the PDDEs to inform the chief executive officers of each cantonment to ascertain and provide command-wise information about these roads and clarify whether they were being used for civilian traffic. 
 
 The move follows the May 1 meeting between representatives of 62 cantonments, senior MoD officials and defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Delhi.
 
 It also assumes significance in the wake of growing resentment among civilians residing in cantonment areas over the closure of various cantonment roads on security grounds and threat perception. 
 
 The cantonment areas in Pune are no exception to this as there are two prime roads in the Pune cantonment area that are closed for civilian use, compelling the vehicle users to take a detour.
 
 Chief executive officer DN Yadav of Pune Cantonment Board ( ) told TOI, “We have already prepared a report on two roads -- Ghorpadi to Koregaon Park Road and Command Hospital to Wanowrie Road. These roads are the properties of A-1 defence land.”
 
 “To resolve such disputes, the defence minister has categorically directed us to revisit each of the cantonment case and find a feasible solution. Once we get details from each cantonment, it will be easier for us to resolve individual cases. While taking any decision to open closed road, we will have to consult the local military authority to understand their side as well,” an official added.
 
 
