AGRA: A video has turned up online that shows a man strolling in an examination room with a pistol tucked in his trousers, as undergraduate students taking the BSc and Botany 1st year exams resort to alleged cheating.
 
  The video was reportedly shot by workers of Shiv Sena’s Agra unit at Krishna Academy in Bichpuri area of Agra on Wednesday afternoon. The Sena workers barged into the examination hall of the college, which is affiliated to Dr  , where they reportedly found students cheating.
  
  Veenu Lavania, the district president of Shiv Sena, said, “We found that students from five private colleges were giving the exam at Krishna Academy. We found out that the academy was an exam centre for students of only three colleges. In one of the classrooms, we found 25 students sitting on floor and copying answers from chits, while a man with a gun was keeping a tab on them. When we tried to confront him, he fled from there.”
  
  According to the university sources, over 2,000 students of Bajirao College, Manorma Institute of Management and Technology, SS Memorial College, KR Institute and Chaudhary Ragunath Singh Mahavidyalaya were appearing for exams at Krishna Academy.
  
  After the video went viral, the university formed a three-member committee to investigate the matter. Speaking to TOI, Agra university vice-chancellor   said, “The committee has found that Krishna Academy did not have proper infrastructure to hold the examination. Also, carrying a weapon inside the   is illegal. Another committee will look into the allegation of mass cheating and based on its recommendation action will be taken against the college. Meanwhile, we will issue a show-cause notice to the college authorities, giving them a chance to explain their part of the incident.”
  
  “The college will have to explain who that person was. Also, why did it hold exams when it did not have the infrastructure to do so,” added the VC.
  
  Meanwhile,  , manager of Krishna Academy, said, “We are conducting an internal probe into the incident.”
