CHANDIGARH: As wind swept the Tricity, power supply was snapped for hours, throwing life out of gear. Zirakpur, where the power cut was more than seven hours long, was the worst affected. 

 There were over five-hour long power cuts in various sectors of Panchkula and Mohali. Power fluctuation and outages were also reported in various sectors of Chandigarh, including sectors 38 West, 39, 37, 19, 20, 40, Manimajra and peripheral areas.
 
 Students found they could not stick to their academic schedule. Simran Dhaliwal, a B.Com first year student at   and resident of Defence Colony, Zirakpur said, “My exams are approaching and I study extensively in the day. Today, there was no power from 11am to 6pm. They cut supply every time there’s wind and rain. But this was the longest cut of the season. Even the inverter stopped working,” she said. 
 
 Rose Chanchal, a Vikas Nagar, Baltana resident preparing for the NEET exam also said her timetable was upset. “There are hardly any cuts in our area even if   is bad. But today, there was no light from noon till late evening,” she said.
 
 Lakhwir Kaur, a resident of Sector 20 D, said, “There were major electricity fluctuations starting from 12.15pm onwards. There were three cuts in an hour’s time and a long cut till 5.20pm. What’s worse is that electricity department officials did not tell us if the cut was scheduled or if it was caused by strong wind.”
 
 Pankaj Gupta, a resident of Sector 38 west complained of intermittent power cuts. 
 
 In Manimajra, there was no power all day. “Since there was no electricity, we were standing on the balcony when a flower pot came crashing down due to the wind. Luckily no one was injured,” said Naveen, a city resident.
 
  residents questioned the quality and stability of power infrastructure. Rakesh Aggarwal, president, Residents’ Welfare Association, Sector 12. Panchkula said, “The power cut lasted more than 5 hours and invertors also stopped working. The electricity department of Panchkula has such infrastructure that it cannot even handle thunderstorm and rainfall. Before the beginning of the summer, we wrote to the department, asking them to take steps to prevent such troublesome situations but we feel nothing has been done.”
 
 
