NAGPUR: Bowling coach  , who played a key role in team’s historic season, where they won both Ranji and Irani Trophy in their maiden appearance and   are likely to part ways.
 
 
 Sources in VCA said Banerjee doesn’t want to do long term assignments and is focusing on working as a consultant. "Banerjee has cited personal reasons. He is specialized in one to one role with bowlers and is looking for similar roles here in Nagpur,” a source told TOI on condition of anonymity.
 
 Banerjee had returned as a chief coach of Vidarbha last year. He was given the responsibility of looking after the entire coaching set up. Eight years ago, when VCA had launched its talent hunt programme, Banerjee had assisted the then chief coach Neil D’Costa. Banerjee and VCA had parted ways in 2012-13 when he became the head coach of Jharkhand Ranji team. Later on, he was looking after various pacer bowlers like Varun Aaron and Bhuvneshwar Kumar besides being a personal coach of master blaster Sachin Tendulkar’s son Arjun.
 
 “He wants to work as a consultant because of family reasons. The executive committee will take up the final call. He has done a fantastic job with our bowlers this season,” sources added.
 
 Banerjee has played an instrumental role in the rise of young pacers like  ,   and Siddhesh Neral this season. Vidarbha won the   despite the handicap of an inexperienced bowling attack. India star Umesh Yadav played just three Ranji games this season.
 
 When the season started, Vidarbha pace attack had combined experience of 11 First-Class matches. Their spearhead Lalit had played only seven matches, while Gurbani had four. Siddhesh Neral was still to make his First-Class debut. “It shows the work he has done in the background,” the source added.
 
 VIdarbha bowling again rose on a flat Jamtha wicket where they scored 800 runs and then managed to take ten wickets of the star-studded Rest of India (ROI) batting line up. Vidarbha pacers Yadav, Gurbani and Aditya Thakare shared seven wickets between them, while ROI pacer Siddharth Kaul took only two wickets.
 
 When he came to Vidarbha during the inception of residential academy, Bannerjee had worked on several pace bowlers across various categories. Umesh was one of them. He still considers Banerjee as his mentor. In fact, Banerjee played a huge role in Umesh’s revival in the 2016-17 season.
 
 The duo worked on a few finer points before the England and Australia Test series. Umesh clearly looked the best Indian pacer during home series against New Zealand, England and Australia. Apart from Umesh, Banerjee was a key figure in allrounder Shrikant Wagh’s rise. Wagh represented India ‘A’ during home series against New Zealand. He also played a part in ex-Vidarbha pacer Sandeep Singh’s revival in 2011-12 when he was ignored.
 
 
