LUCKNOW: UP government is set to go paperless from August 15. With an aim to reduce corruption and bring transparency in the working of the government, Lucknow and   will be taken up as pilot projects where e-governance will be introduced with an immediate effect.

 
 Additional chief secretary (IT and electronics) Sanjeev   said that a presentation had been made to chief minister   last week and he asked for the system to be in place by the middle of August. Under e-governance, explained officials, all communication between the government, districts, heads of departments etc will be done online without the need to send written orders or communications.
 
 A letter comprising a ‘todo’ list for meeting the August 15 deadline has already been dispatched to all 75 districts on April 19. “It is a huge task to implement e-governance due to the massive size of the state. In Lucknow and Pilibhit, we are first organising to have signatures digitialised. Further, we also have to arrange for the training and infrastructure, which includes computers, scanners, connectivity etc,” said Saran.
 
 ‘Lucknow, Pilibhit taken up as pilot projects’
 
 With the state being divided into 75 districts, the government will take help from the   (NIC) to implement the project in each of them. Chief development officers of each district have been made the nodal officer for their districts to oversee the implementation.
 
 “Lucknow and Pilibhit are being taken up as pilot projects. We will be rolling out egovernance here immediately and training for personnel will start next week. There are some works that are already paperless, for instance disbursal of scholarships and pensions. The IT and electronics department rolled out e-governance in May last year. Since then, we have issued 1.87 lakh e-tenders worth Rs 1.94 lakh crore,” said Saran.
 
 He added that the rollout would start from August 15 and the entire system would go paperless as soon as possible. “It will reduce corruption and bring about transparency in the system ,” he said.
 
