GURUGRAM: The   sealed 24 “illegal”   stores in the city on Wednesday, two days after the corporation served notices, asking them to shut down. Of these, eight shops were sealed in Feroze Gandhi Colony, four in Laxman Vihar, three in Krishna Chowk, four in Sector 46 and five in Sector 39.

 In May 2017, the state government had made it mandatory for meat shops to get licences to operate, and the MCG has been giving licences to meat stores since then. 
 
 In last six months, 60 shops operating without licences were sealed. A few meat sellers had alleged that the authorities were not issuing new licences to them.
 
 An MCG official said the corporation would go ahead with the sealing drive in coming days as well. “We had given an advance notice, following which we conducted the drive against illegal meat stores on Wednesday. Some of the shopkeepers shut their shops on their own, while others were sealed,” said  , chief medical officer, MCG.
 
 Notices to shut the shops allegedly involved in illegal sale of meat were issued after the MCG received an order from the chief minister’s office.
 
 TOI had reported on Tuesday that MCG issued notices to several illegal meat stores in the city, asking them to shut down. Notices were served on traders in Narsinghpur, Mohammadpur Jharsa, Khandsa, Sector-46, Sector-39 among several other places in the city, according to an MCG spokesperson.
 
 The issue of illegal meat shops was brought up in the grievance committee meeting chaired by the   last Saturday, when he had assured that no illegal meat shop would function in Gurugram, and would be shut down if it didn’t comply with the order. Chief Minister   had also told officials on Saturday that the municipal corporation was free to decide on once-a-week closure of meat shops in the city and could unanimously pass a resolution. 
 
  The MCG has given licence to 129 meat shops, which are valid till March 31. The licences will be renewed from April 1. The CM had said the number of licences should not be increased. According to an MCG official, this instruction pertained to shops selling mutton and chicken, where slaughter is carried out.
 
 
