Taking advantage of a brief lull, the   crowd around three gloriously  . “They’re so shiny, what are they made of,” they ask the gallerist who patiently satisfies their curiosity. Some selfies with Ravinder Reddy’s bare naked ladies later, they return to their security duties, letting the stream of VIP visitors into the country’s biggest art event, the India  . But despite the calm environs of white booths that smell heavily of forest-fresh air deodorizer, the tumult outside does sneak in with the art revealing underlying anxieties about everything from climate change and urbanization to displaced migrants. And, of course, in a theme that’s more relevant than ever, feminism.

 If Reddy’s curvy women with protruding bellies stare straight at you, challenging conventional notions of beauty and the male gaze, Mithu Sen’s art threaten to spill dark secrets. ‘Reading Secrets of Others’, a set of four books, was made in 2008 but in a   world, the work takes on a different meaning. Open the books and the painted lips threaten to tell all, with the penis flattened by an iron on the last page in Mithu’s signature sexplicit style.
 
 Talking of bold, one can’t overlook India’s Frida Kahlo. In photos taken by her father Umrao Singh Sher-Gil that are on show in the Projects section of the fair, Amrita is resplendent in white dresses and armpit fuzz.
 
 Many young artists too push and push against boundaries. In a recorded performance shown in a loop, Zoya Siddiqui turns video screens into a box that confines and restricts. At the Gallery Chemould booth, Gigi Scaria bronze figures push against the wall while at Latitude 28, young Priyanka D’Souza challenges those who say freedom has gone to her head in a 3D work that’s framed but not shielded by glass.
 
 Despite such works, the fair does leave you wanting more. As a foreign art journalist noted, “The fair still has way to go but I have to say that there’s less of the bad stuff.” Under a new director, Jagdip Jagpal, there is no doubt that the galleries are bringing fresher and more carefully curated works. “We asked galleries not to show works that they’ve displayed at other fairs. Our selection process was also tougher, and it will be even tougher next year,” Jagpal told TOI. Here’s looking forward to 2019.
 
 
