NEW DELHI: A gangster, who was on the list of top criminals in the city, and two of his associates were caught by   after a shootout near   on Wednesday. The criminals were wanted for kidnapping the son of a former councillor from   in northwest Delhi last year. The prime accused, Manjeet Dabas, had a reward of Rs 1 lakh for his arrest. A large cache of ammunition was recovered from them.

 
  
  
 
 
 A police team tracked down one of the criminals, Ashu Shokeen, while he had gone to meet his maternal uncle near Jhajjar, DCP (Special Cell)   said. His SUV was intercepted on Gurgaon-Jhajjar road and he was caught. He told police that he was on the way to meet Dabas and their third associate, Bhagat, at a safe house near  .
 
 The criminals had planned to use a service road to travel to the safe house to evade police. 
 
 “Dabas and Bhagat were spotted on a bike around midnight near Sector 23, Dwarka. When the police team signalled them to stop, they tried to speed away. However, they lost their balance and fell off the bike. They started fleeing on foot and opened fire at the cops. Soon both of them were caught,” Yadav said.
 
 The three men revealed that they used to work with one Mahesh Thekedar who had taken a contract to collect toll at a booth in south Delhi. Thekedar then planned to kidnap the ex-councillor’s son.
 
 As per plan, Dabas procured a traffic police constable’s uniform for himself and two khaki uniforms for the other two. They followed the victim when he left his house in a BMW car and intercepted him at Netaji Subhash Place.
 
  Dabas, posing as a traffic cop, forced the victim to unlock the vehicle on the pretext of checking the vehicle’s papers and pulled him out. The victim was forced to board a Scorpio SUV and taken to the safe house.
 
 The accused demanded ransom of Rs 50 crore, which was finalised at Rs 2 crore after negotiations. The ex-councillor paid Rs one crore and promised to give the rest once his son was released. He also registered a case at Netaji Subhash Place police station, which was transferred to  .
 
 Dabas said that Thekedar kept a lion’s share of the ransom. However, Thekedar was soon arrested by Crime Branch along with other gang members. Dabas panicked and threatened to kill the ex-councillor’s family members. 
 
 Subsequently, Crime Branch lodged a case and announced a reward of Rs one lakh on him. He is being interrogated to identify other associates.
 
 
