INDORE: In making of five new   in   area of Indore, the administration is working to remove the existing discrepancy due to 29  , which have been included in   limits.

 In the civic polls of 2014, the authority had increased the number of wards from 69 to 85 by including 29 neighbouring villages into   limit. However, these villages, still fall into Sanwer, Mhow and Hatod tehsils and residents have to approach administrative officials of the respective tehsil for any work.
 
 “We are working to reform this discrepancy by connecting the 29 villages with respective tehsils of Indore city. We have received an in-principle approval from the state government for developing five new tehsils in the city limit. By this way, we will have six tehsils, including five new and one already existing tehsil-Indore (city)-in the urban area. With this, the total number of tehsils in the district will increase to 10, including Mhow, Depalpur, Sanwer and Hatod,” SDM and the officer in charge (OIC, land records) Rakesh Sharma told TOI.
 
 The district administration has started mapping of the proposed tehsils on the basis of patwari halka, population, and the revenue collection. “We are working on creating new patwari halka in city area and the number could reach to four-five,” Sharma said.
 
 Besides this, the authority is also trying to remove the discrepancy due to different sub-divisional officer (SDO) and sub-divisional magistrate (SDM).
 
 The state government has sanctioned 16 posts, including two tehsildars and a naib-tehsildar, for the each new proposed tehsil. The administration is also contemplating to develop office of the proposed tehsils in their respective areas, so that, the locals can get their work, including preparation of the caste and income certificates and disposal of revenue cases, done without going to collectorate.
 
 “It is being expected that the survey for developing the new tehsils will get completed by the next one week. The report will be submitted to district collector further to get an approval from the state government,” Sharma said.
 
 
