Panaji:   operators, who have been at the receiving end both from locals and tourists, have accused the state transport department for harassment and said if their “grievances were dealt with on time, they would not have gone for a strike”. 

 The allegation was immediately rubbished by the department.
 
 Putting the blame squarely on the transport department, North Goa Tourist Taxi Association spokesperson Laxman ‘Bappa’ Korgaonkar says they are more concerned about the harassment rather than the speed governors, which forced them to go off the roads for three days.
 
 But transport director Nikhil Desai denies the ‘harassment’ allegations and says they only act against those who violate rules. “We have not come across a single complaint by the taxi drivers. Let them provide specific cases of harassment, if any, by our officers and the department will take action,” he says.
 
 “Things were never this bad in the transport department,” says Korgaonkar, while another association office-bearer Sanjay Vengurlekar says even when the renewal papers are submitted on time, it takes three months for it to be renewed.
 
 “RTO officials penalise us when we can’t produce the renewal papers. A stamped and signed acknowledgment by the department is not accepted by them,” says Vengurlekar.
 
 “Why does it take months to process the renewal documents,” asks Korgaonkar.
 
 Desai says these are “baseless allegations. Let them produce the proof. We are facing a shortage of staff due to no new recruitments for the past two years. There was a huge backlog, but we have cleared it by calling staff to work even on holidays”.
 
 He says his department has been stern with taxi operators for flouting rules. “Some taxi operators hire drivers from outside Goa who do not have badges to operate in the state. Some of their other violations include over-speeding, not wearing uniform, rash driving and not carry documents with them. Where is the harassment in this?” he asks.
 
 Desai says they will continue to act against errant taxi operators and other motorists who violate traffic rules.
 
 Korgaonkar says they don’t defend errant drivers even if they are members of the association. “Let such taxi drivers be penalised but our harassment must end.”
 
 He says even letters issued by Desai are not acknowledged by the RTO officials. “He (Desai) lacks experience,” Korgaonkar says.
 
 Taxi operators also allege that a notice specifying the time-frame for disposal of RTO work “was removed after we started questioning the authorities when our jobs got delayed”. There are nine items on the list with time-frame for each one and it says, “renewal will be done on the same day”.
 
 Producing a slip from his pocket, another office-bearer Ajit Naik says he is yet to get his renewal papers.
 
 Korgaonkar also says that the core committees formed for the North and South to thrash out their grievances in 2014 has stopped meeting. “The chief minister has now assured us that the core committees will meet regularly,” he says.
 
 
