NEW DELHI:   will finish the 2017-18   season at the second spot behind fierce rivals   who have sealed the trophy in a record-breaking fashion. However, Manchester United can still finish the season with a silverware should they beat   in the   final later this month. 

 
 Despite finishing as the second-best in the league, United midfielder   feels the season won't be considered as 'bad' and they can still finish on a high since they are in the final of the FA Cup.
 
 
 
 "Well, we wanted to win the league title and we haven’t been able to do it. But the season wasn’t bad," 30-year-old told TOI. "It’s still possible to win the FA Cup and if we do that then I don’t consider it a negative campaign."
 
 Mata revealed that United are already dreaming of winning the FA Cup which he regards as a 'special trophy'. "It’s very big of course. The FA Cup Final is the match of the year. It’s a special trophy in England and we are dreaming of winning it," he said.
 
 Mata's first taste of Premier League football came with Chelsea whom he will face in the FA Cup final on May 19. After falling out of favour with the then Chelsea manager  , Mata joined United in January transfer window in 2014. 
 
 The Spanish midfielder still has happy memories from his time spent with Chelsea. "Chelsea was my first home in England and I have good memories there so, yes, the match is special. But as a professional my job is to beat them in the final," he said.
 
 United last won Premier League title under legendary   in 2012-13 and Mata feels that the title drought has a lot to do with their inability to kill games against weak teams. "It’s true we need to improve on that [winning against small teams] because we have lost too many points in those matches. The match against Brighton was frustrating, I agree. But it was also rare because we weren’t decisive in attack and without goals you can’t win games," he said.
 
 On the question of what United need to win the title next season, he said, "I’m not the coach but if we want to improve next season then maybe we need more success in attack. We need to win games when we are on top."
 
