Some of the most successful people who lose weight, maintain it and have sound mental health; they do not achieve it because of their nutritionists, doctors or yoga teachers alone. They are able to do it because they take personal responsibility and accountability of their health, along with the right amount of coaching and professional advice. 

  There is one powerful, inexpensive and very simple lifestyle tip that can help a person not only lose weight but also become more mindful of their health and choices, without having to follow any fad diet or exercise programmes. That simple lifestyle tip is to maintain a “daily journal”. 
 
  A   is a fantastic way to pen down your thoughts and reflect upon them every day. A regular practice of journaling can increase mindfulness, accountability and responsibility all at the same time, which is key to achieve any health or life goal. 
 
  If you are a beginner at this, start with a simple practice of writing down all the foods you eat in a day for breakfast, lunch, evening snacks, dinner, including the ones you may have binged on. Most of us mindlessly munch snacks and forget about it, but our body remembers every bite and every morsel. Hence journaling gives us a fair idea of how much of a certain food or activity is right for us based on the way we feel physically. 
 
  Journaling is a powerful tool for emotional health too. As soon as we wake up, we tend to get carried away with our routines. We are hardly in tune with our emotions and triggers. Hence, maintaining a journal is a powerful way to capture your state of mind upon waking up or going to sleep, how a certain food or exercise makes you feel. 
 
  Journaling can be as brief or as elaborate as you want it to be. It could be jotting down thoughts at the end of your day or a more spread out one that records your daily food choices, exercise, sleep, stress levels or simply a journal on gratitude. Either way, journaling delivers the most benefits when you commit to it as a daily practice.
 
  
 
 Jot down your basic health information like body weight, height, any allergies.
 
 Make a note of the weather/environmental conditions, temperature around you.
 
 Write down about past illnesses, injuries if any and the medication taken for it.
 
 Write down your daily food chart, don’t miss out on all the sneaky indulgences.
 
 Record your sleeping habits: duration, bedtime, any disturbing patterns.
 
 Make a note of your family’s medical history.
 
 Write down all daily physical occurrences, changes in the body, any slight pain and breathlessness.
 
  Research says journaling can lead to better immune function, a drop in blood pressure, improved sleep and less stress.
 
 
 
 
