Mumbai:   may have traditionally given rise to a number of cuisines distinct to regions, but changing   and extensive migration of workers are spreading local tastes across the country. 

 For instance, a sweet variant of the Gujarati   from a leading national player gets its highest sales from West Bengal. Similarly, a Rajasthani sweet lime pickle from the same brand gets its highest sales from Delhi, followed by Karnataka and Maharashtra. Packaged foods major   noticed that its branded wheat atta is growing faster in the south as compared to other geographies. Given the growing cosmopolitan consumer behaviours, brands are framing strategies in line with the emergence of fresh consumer demand across regions.
 
 Sanjana Desai, head of food division business development at   ( ), said, “We have been part of this transition and have witnessed consumption of a particular regional variant product being consumed more in other regions. For example, Punjabi pickle variant — which was traditionally sold in Punjab & nearby states — has seen more growth and traction in states like Maharashtra and other places. In fact, Mother’s Recipe’s Punjabi Pickle is one of the top selling variant in Maharashtra (21%) followed by Delhi (17%) & Karnataka (14%).”
 
 ITC’s   has, in fact, enabled this shift in consumer trend through various marketing initiatives. Engagement- and activation-led initiatives are being done to convey the benefits of adopting atta as part of everyday diet. Consumers are being introduced to new wheat-based dishes and accompaniments, which is being disseminated through digital and conventional platforms. Internal sales data also reflects that Aashirvaad’s growth in the south is faster than other geographies.
 
 Hemant Malik, chief executive of foods division at ITC, said there is a rising trend of people becoming increasingly health conscious, which is reflected in lifestyle changes. An IMRB exploratory study showed that the Indian housewife is making changes to her diet and lifestyle as a result of concerns related to lifestyle-related diseases and adulteration.
 
 Malik said, “We have been witnessing this trend in the south with consumers increasingly adopting wheat and wheat-based dishes. The incidence of ready-to-eat chapatis is also on the rise. According to a study done in Tamil Nadu, households consuming atta at least once a week for breakfast has risen more than twofold in the last one year. Chapatis & wheat dishes, which were earlier restricted to only dinner, are now becoming more accepted as a breakfast meal. This is also reflected in household panel data, which shows that Aashirvaad atta enters about 75% of households in the south.”
 
 Even in the ready-to-cook segment, Desai said the company has seen south special Kerala variants like   getting good traction in markets like New Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai and other parts of India as well. Similarly, Kerala Fish Curry is being sold in Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai and northeastern states and has seen the demand increasing.
 
 Key factors driving sales are consumers, who are well travelled, experimenting with other cuisines. Brand expert Harish Bijoor, who founded  , said, “As migration becomes the norm, geography becomes history. People migrate for jobs beyond the boundaries of state, language, and indeed food-lines. As this happens, there is still a craving for what one is used to. Therefore, if you suddenly find a   — with a pickle sachet in it to boot — doing well in Madurai, do not be surprised. Equally, do not be surprised if a Maiya’s boondi and ready-to-make Karnataka Rasam cube does amazingly in Delhi.”
 
 He added, “Food tastes and cravings have criss-crossed borders. “In the beginning, when a   company launched a khakra, it sold it only in Gujarat. Today, it sells a khakra all across from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. As people have moved, their food tastes have moved as well. An Odiya restaurant in Bengaluru and a Kerala food restaurant in Bhuj is the new reality we walk into. FMCG offerings in food today, and beverages tomorrow, will make the local-local market as ‘un-local’ as can be.”
 
 Another key aspect is availability of products throughout the year. “Earlier, pickle making was limited using regionally available and seasonal fruits and vegetables. People generally made one or two varieties of pickles, which they would consume for limited period. With the advent of commercialisation, the effect of seasonality has decreased. All pickles and seasonal food products are easily available to consumers throughout the year,” said Desai.
 
 
