HYDERABAD: Task Force sleuths nabbed a fraudster for allegedly preparing a forged letterhead of special chief secretary (Finance)   with an intention to mobilise advance of ?8 crore in favour of M/s Pulse Pharmaceutical Pvt Ltd. Several fake documents, including a letter of Office of Chief Minister, were seized from his possession.

 The accused was identified as K Rama Krishna   from East Godavari district. Cops said that the accused in the past used to move closely with some political leaders of Andhra Pradesh and took photographs with them. He used to upload such photos on his social media accounts. Chandrasekhar used to claim that he is personal assistant of various political leaders and made money by cheating people under pretext of sanctioning government tenders, transfers and postings of government employees and several other works related to the Secretariat.
 
 The accused came in contact with one Suresh Babu, director of M/s Pulse Pharmaceutical Pvt Ltd, through a common friend. After seeing the photographs with various ministers and MLAs, Babu assumed that Chandrasekhar has contacts with influential persons and appointed the accused as liaison officer for Pulse Pharmaceutical.
 
 Cops said that on February 2, the accused gave an authorisation letter to the manager of Andhra Bank’s   in the name of Sri K. Ramakrishna Rao, special chief secretary, (Finance), Government of Telangana, asking him to to release mobilisation advance of nearly ?8 crore to the management of M/s Pulse Pharmaceutical Pvt Ltd.
 
 “When the management of M/s Pulse Pharmaceutical Pvt Ltd approached the bank manager, he verified with the   branchto verify the genuineness of the letter. In turn, the AGM sent the letter to office of special chief secretary (Finance) to verify the genuineness. The principal secretary (Finance) confirmed that the letter is fake and his signature was forged,” cops said in a press note.
 
 Immediately, special chief secretary (Finance) lodged a complaint in Saifabad police station. On knowing about the fake letter, Babu contacted Chandrasekhar, but the accused switched off his phone.
 
