Kolkata: Sledging, cheating and   incidents in the ongoing Test series between the South Africa and Australians in South Africa have tarnished the image of the sport and the spirit of game has taken a big hit.

 
 
 
 
 
 It has not gone down well with the International Cricket Council ( ), the game’s world governing body.
 
 Asked to comment on the on-field misdemeanours, ICC chairman   stated: “Every team wants to win, but players can’t use dubious methods to gain victory. It is not in the spirit of the game. The ICC has taken a serious note of the events in Cape Town and plans to put together a group of former players of impeccable reputation.
 
 
 
 
 “The new panel will operate under the existing Code of Conduct, but will be free to suggest any action that it may deem fit. The penalty must be such that it deters all cricketers from indulging in such malpractices in future.”
 
 The panel, which could include the likes of Allan Border, Shaun Pollock, Anil Kumble, Mahela Jayawardene and Richie Richardson, depending on their availability, is likely to be formalised by the ICC Board at its meeting in Kolkata next month.
 
 
 
 
 
 The ICC, which strictly went by the rule book on one of the most despicable and brazen attempts at cheating on the field in recent times, now plans to put certain additional measures in place in order to prevent recurrence of such incidents.
 
 The ICC banned Australian captain Steve Smith for one Test and docked his entire match fee after he admitted to his role in pre-meditated ball-tampering on the third day of the Test at Newlands. Smith was also handed four demerit points.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Bancroft, who was caught by television cameras rubbing mud attached to a small piece of yellow adhesive tape on the ball before hiding the tape in his underpants, was fined 75 per cent of his match fee and given three demerit points. Vice-captain David Warner, who was also allegedly involved in the cheating plan, however, escaped ICC censure.
 
 
