ROHATK: With Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet   behind bars for almost six months now, his mother   Kaur has emerged from the shadows and become the guiding force of this once-flourishing institution.

 
 Naseeb comes to the dera headquarters from Ram Rahim’s ancestral home at Gursar Modia village in Rajasthan’s   district to meet devotees at least once a week. Sources told TOI that the mother, who is in her 70s, is mostly seen on Sundays when dera followers gather at Sirsa for what is known as ‘Naam Charcha’ or religious discourse. These gatherings would attract thousands of followers earlier, but they are a comparatively smaller affair now and are conducted by placing Gurmeet’s picture on the pedestal. The discourse is played on loudspeakers.
 
 Naseeb is seen at some big functions but then she returns to Gursar Modia. She is one of the most frequent visitors to Rohtak’s Sunaria prison where Gurmeet is jailed.
 
 
 
 
 Gurmeet is serving out his 20-year jail sentence after he was convicted by the CBI court in Panchkula for raping two of his devotees inside the dera headquarters. A month after Gurmeet was convicted on August 25, 2017, Naseeb announced that her grandson Jasmeet Insaan would be the next heir.
 
 She claimed that the decision to anoint him heir was taken in 2007 after Gurmeet was entangled in a controversy over allegedly imitating the 10thSikh master Guru Gobind Singh. This was seen as a departure from the norm as none of the previous dera heads had declared their own children as heirs until then.
 
 The sect was founded in 1948 by   of Baluchistan, who remained its head till 1960. He was succeeded by another popular guru  , who remained the head from 1960 to 1990. Gurmeet took over the dera in 1990.In the last few months, Naseeb has become the face of the dera. Gurmeet, during his heydays, had often referred to her as ‘rajmata’, a sobriquet that some followers still use for her.
 
 Naseeb along with other family members has taken charge also because the 45-member core committee of the dera, which managed the affairs for a long time, has now become largely defunct. Two of the most influential members of the committee, its chairperson Vipasana Insaan and spokesman Dr Aditya Insaan, have gone underground after they were identified as some of the key people behind the violence in Panchkula after Gurmeet was convicted of rape.
 
 While Dr Aditya had disappeared immediately after Gurmeet’s conviction, Vipasana went underground after the Panchkula court issued arrest warrants against her in January after cops submitted evidence of her role in the Panchkula violence.
 
 PR Nain, vice-chairperson of the dera’s management committee, who was active even after Gurmeet was jailed, went underground after arrest warrants were issued against him along with Vipasana.
 
 Commercial activities within the Sirsa headquarters have not been started after the facilities were sealed in August last year, but six of the educational institutions have started functioning. Besides these institutes, the Shah Satnam multispecialty hospital has also started functioning and treats dera followers.
 
