CHENNAI: The city corporation and the   (CRRT) on Wednesday began evicting families along the bank of the   on   off   after a hiatus of five months.

 All 168 families settled along the river bank will be evicted by Thursday and resettled to slum clearance board tenements at  , officials said.
 
 Amid heavy police security, the resettlement process was carried out by officials of  ,  , slum clearance board and CRRT.
 
 Residents said they were informed only last week about the eviction drive, and were apprehensive of the facilities that would be available at the Perumbakkam tenements. “Some families have been sent to Perumbakkam but some have not got allotment orders. There is confusion, but we have packed our things,” said S Sumathi, a resident. Usually, faced with resistance during slum evictions, officials from the civic body said the scenario was changing now.
 
 “Right now, our worry is travelling back to this place for work. At least Rs 100 would be spent per day on travel,” said Lakshmi, another resident.
 
 A party-affiliate and a resident of the slum tried creating a furore by not allowing the allotment process to take place. “His house had an attached toilet constructed by him. He wanted to get an extra allotment order for the structure. There have been incidents in this slum, too, where people are trying to use their political connections and allotments for extra apartments at Perumbakkam,” said an official involved in the exercise.
 
 A transgender, Kalliammal, broke down upon hearing that she has not been given an allotment order due to lack of documents. Officials, however, sent her and three more families to a corporation-run shelter until the allotment orders are received.
 
 Officials from the Cooum eco-restoration project said now that the exam season is over, and families had been informed in advance, there is no chance of dissent at the resettlement exercise. 
 
 At the end of Wednesday, 105 families were shifted to Perumbakkam. “Piling and temporary fencing work would begin once the houses are demolished so that people will not come back and set up houses here again,” an official said.
 
 
