JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Thursday directed the Union and the state governments to file an affidavit on the revision of the OBC list.

 The division bench of   and VK Vyas was hearing a petition by  . The high court in 2015 had directed both the Centre and the state to revise the OBC list based on survey of backwardness of communities and eject those communities which do not deserve reservation from the OBC.
 
 However both the governments failed comply with the orders. 
 
 The Union government on its part said the centre is in the process of converting the National backward Classes commission in to a constitutional body and a bill in his regard was presented in the Lok Sabha.
 
 The state government argued that according to the state backward classes’ commission rules there is no need for revision of OBC list. The state government said not only it is a time consuming efforts but he cost of such a revision involves expenditure to the tune of Rs 100 crore.
 
 Court seeks govt reply on fire safety steps
 
 High court has asked the state government what measures it is taking to avert fire incidents like the one happened at Vidhyadhar Nagar last year which claimed the life of five members of a family.
 
 The division bench issued the order while hearing a PIL by lawyer  . The court had earlier issued notice to the JMC.
 
 The petition said had the fire-fighting machinery been alert, the damage to life and property could have been averted. The petition further said a number of posts in fire department are lying vacant and employees are mostly hired on contract basis. They do not possess the necessary equipment and training to react in an emergency situation as was evident in the recent fire tragedy in Vidhyadhar Nagar on January 12.
 
 Notice on bonus marks to in-service doctors 
 
 High court issues notice to Union government, Principal Secretary Medical Education, Medical Council of India (MCI) over the bonus marks to in-service doctors for PG admission.
 
 The division bench of   and V K Vyas issued notice on an appeal petition by All Rajasthan In-service Doctors Association. They challenged the single bench order restricting bonus marks only to those in-service doctors served in remote and difficult areas notified and not in rural areas, said counsel for the petitioner Tanveer Ahmed.
 
 
