HYDERABAD: A day after the tragic death of five-year-old P  , who was tossed out of her school bus and came under it rear tyres at   on Saturday, police have taken the erring driver and attender into custody.

 According to police, the school bus had no door and Anjali fell out of the vehicle after the driver slammed brakes when it was on its way to school after picking students at  . The victim’s head got crushed under the wheels, police added.
 
 
 Police have taken the bus driver and attender into custody and were investigating. “In such accidents, it is not only the driver’s fault, but also that of the school management. Apart from the driver, every school bus should have an attender to ensure safety of children and keep the door closed to avoid such untoward incidents,” said M  , district transport officer, Rangareddy district.
 
  
  
 
 In 2017, 131school and college buses were booked by   (RTA) for various violations.
 
 According to officials, the common violations were not having fitness certificate or attender on the school bus. It was the second such case in a month. A 10-year-old girl was run over by a speeding college bus at   on December 20, 2017.
 
 According to data provided by Hyderabad Traffic Police, school bus drivers were named as accused in 10 accident cases.
 
 “Schools should follow certain rules when they provide transport facility. There should be an attender, bus doors should be kept closed while it is moving, driver should have over five-year experience in driving heavy vehicles etc. Some schools hire inexperienced drivers or fail to provide attenders on buses,” Hyderabad DCP, traffic police, said AV Ranganath said, According to  , among the 131school and college buses, few were also booked for poorly maintaining the bus. “If a bus is found 15 years or above old, it is considered to be unfit. Though it is a rare case, in 2017 we had one such case.We conduct road safety training for school bus drivers. Last year, 70 bus drivers attended it,” district transport officers said.
 
 Several parents also expressed concerns after learning about Saturday’s acciden. “I feel school authorities are least bothered about safety of children. When they know that the bus was carrying young children, they should have been more careful. The bus had no door. Only after a fatal accident, school managements will bring in strict rules,”   Naredi, an executive member of Hyderabad School Parents’ Association (HSPA), said.
 
