BHOPAL: For the beleaguered   plagued with factionalism, all roads lead to Narsinghpur these days. Senior   leader   on Friday called on Dwarka Peeth Shankaracharya Swaroopanand Saraswati, twice in the last four days, creating a buzz in political circles in the run up to 2018 assembly elections. 

 On April 9, he along with   general secretary Digvijaya Singh had met the Shankaracharya at the valedictory function of Narmada Parikrama at Barman ghat. But this time, Kamal Nath was met the seer along with Congress stalwart Suresh Pachauri to seek his blessings. Kamal Nath's Friday journey from Chhindwara to Narsinghpur came into media glare after his chopper lost its way. But the state Congress is more intrigued about the 25-minute closed-door discussion between the seer and the former Union minister who is being seen as a likely contender for CM's chair if the Congress comes to power in the upcoming November assembly elections. 
 
 Even Digvijaya Singh has, in an exclusive interview with TOI at the fag end of his yatra, supported Kamal Nath as the chief ministerial candidate. Sources in the state   said that Kamal Nath's visit to the Shankaracharya's ashram at Jyoteshwar in Narsinghpur has attracted everyone's attention because Suresh Pachauri remained outside, while the one-on-one meeting took place behind closed doors.
 
 Speaking to reporters later, Kamal Nath said, "I came here to seek the blessings of the Shankaracharya. I get a lot of strength and energy whenever I come here. I am going back with a lot of motivation." Asked about former CM Digvijaya Singh supporting him as chief ministerial face of the party, Kamal Nath said, "That is Digvijaya Singh's personal opinion. One thing is for sure that the party is united, everyone's face, contribution and hardwork is essential. Rest the people of MP will decide."
 
 Shankaracharya Swaroopanand Saraswati also spoke to media and confirmed that senior Congress leader has come to seek divine blessings. "Wo chahte hain ki ab hum raaj karen (He wants that we should rule). For me, it does not matter who rules. I want welfare of people. Government should put an end to cow slaughter and farmers should be benefitted. Agriculture no longer is a profitable venture and youth from agrarian background are migrating to other places but not getting jobs," Shankaracharya said.
 
 
