

 Damyanti, who resides in Mulund, has a single-minded mission in life and that is, to serve others. This 54-year-old sends piping hot, healthy vegetarian meals to helpless, lonely senior citizens, every day, without charging a single penny. “There are around 110 dabbas that I deliver every day. The dabbas we send suffices for two meals – lunch as well as dinner,” she informs.
 Mornings, for her, are a frenzy of activities as it begins with a brisk chopping of fresh vegetables, kneading dough for chappatis, cooking rice, dal and the daily dessert. “We make sure to include at least one dessert and one farsaan along with the meals. Sometimes it is kheer, sheera or sevaiyaan. There are days when we include cakes too. People, often, donate food on their birthdays, including cakes that we distribute to the senior citizens with their dabbas,” she says. Damyanti’s husband, Pradeep runs a farsaan-sweetmeat shop, so a fresh batch of batata vadas or fafdas from the shop are, sometimes, packed along with their meals. 
 She has employed four ladies and one man to help her prepare fresh food every morning. “The quantity of food we make has increased, so we needed to hire a male cook to handle the large vessels deftly,” she explains, adding, “Our old 2-BHK house serves as the kitchen and store house.” They have to keep everything ready before 8.30 am-9 am, when the dabbawalas come to collect the tiffins for delivery. 
  
 Damyanti and Pradeep were devastated with the death of their only son Nimesh Tanna, who was hit by a train in 2011. They embarked on pilgrimages across the country to overcome the loss. But one-and-a-half-years of grieving did not dull the anguish of the loss. That’s when she made up her mind to help those who were alone and in distress. “We realised that we had to look within for consolation and comfort, rather than search for it elsewhere,” she says.
 Damyanti and her friends got together and began to cook meals and deliver tiffins to senior citizens daily. Her husband supported her endeavour. They set up a charitable trust in 2013, which feeds over 110 senior citizens daily. She, now, finds a sense of fulfillment in serving the senior citizens. “The senior citizens are such a grateful bunch. They keep blessing my son Nimesh, as I feed them in his name. Most of them are not aware that he is no more. I just want to see these old couples happy, so I don’t reveal much,” she says.
 There’s another reason that spurs her on in her mission. “Nimesh was socially inclined and would help people in need. This organisation is a way to pay tribute to him and help the needy. He’d always say that he would become a ‘bada aadmi’ and now, he has become one,” she beams. 
 Damyanti and her group of eager volunteers and workers, go to villages like Dahanu near Mumbai to give away monthly rations, food, grains, clothes, books and stationery. The amount of selfless work she does there is another story in itself.
 
 
 
 
 Mark D’Souza is like an angel to fellow senior citizens, whom he has been proving free meals since 2012. “I do this 365 days. There is no break or holidays. In fact, I have noticed that even the rain gods support me when I step out to deliver tiffins. Nothing stops me,” says the Borivali-based Samaritan.
 Wife   has been supporting him in his mission from the day he shared his idea with her. “Yvonne is the president of the IC Colony’s Women Association, which has around 400 plus ladies. We took their help when we got to know that there a few senior citizens in the colony, who were in need of meals. We started off with five-six tiffins,” says Mark, who’s had a difficult journey, when he lost his mother at an early age and had to stay with his relatives.
  
 Currently, the couple provides free tiffins to 56 citizens with the help of a cook, who starts the preparation from 5:30 in the morning. By 12:30 pm, piping hot home cooked meals are ready for delivery — Mark personally delivers the dabbas to nearby areas of Borivali and Dahisar, while the dabbawalas take on the delivery in places like Kandivli and Mahim. 
 Mark ensures that the food is less oily, less salty and less spicy too. “We change the menu everyday. We also cook separately for vegetarians and non-vegetarians. Health conditions are kept in mind, so diabetics are given chappatis instead of rice. Yvonne and I go shopping for veggies and grocery to ensure that we get only good quality provisions,” he says.
 The huge tiffin, delivered during lunch, ensures that the elderly don’t go hungry even during dinner. “Each tiffin consists of four layers, which includes rice, chappatis, vegetables and a gravy dish. So if they have rice in the afternoon, they can keep chappatis for dinner. We ensure that the quantity is such that they can also keep it for breakfast, the next day. Special dishes like biryani, desserts and fruits are served on birthdays and festivals,” he informs.
 Mark, who is a diabetic himself, works for almost 14 hours daily and has lunch on the way when he goes to deliver tiffins. “Every day is memorable with the senior citizens. And I expect nothing from them. One lady just turned 100 on August 22, last year. When she was 97, three years back, I told her we will break Sachin Tendulkar’s record of 100 runs. She told me, ‘If you are my runner, then we will both make it to 100!’ Now, that’s the best feeling ever,” he recalls. Mark’s free dabba service has no funding from outside. “I don’t need any big funding. I am in the the property business as well as have an agency that provides caretakers to take care of patients. Besides, my son, daughter and son-in-law pool in money too. There are people who give small amounts. But, overall, it is God who helps me.”
 
