AHMEDABAD: After hearing of criminal application in Gujarat high court, Naranpura police on Thursday registered an FIR in the Lakhudi Talav matter where activists had alleged negligence on part of   (AMC). According to the FIR, at least 25 families, who were living in the slum before development project, were not allotted the houses or commercial spaces.

 According to Naranpura police, Janaksinh Parmar, a resident of Paldi, has filed an FIR against  , Ashish Patel,  ,  , former AMC officials, along with builders of the project, notaries representing the occupants and office bearers of the rehabilitation project. Parmar has also alleged corruption in the process from 2010 to 2015.
 
  “Parmar has approached different authorities in the past in the issue including AMC, police and judiciary. In response to an   application to the AMC’s vigilance department, the allotment and occupancy details were revealed. According to the detail, out of 568 houses surveyed, only 148 were occupied by the persons who were originally allotted the units. While 155 had interchanged the units, 157 were found to be tenants - which is against the rule. A total of 108 houses were locked,” said an investigator.
 
 Parmar in his complaint mentioned that the number of units - 568 - raises questions as the voters list from 2005 to 2012 showed only 350 occupants of the slum at Lakhudi Talav area.
 
 Parmar has named K J Modi, retired deputy civil engineer, Ashish Patel, assistant civil engineer, Mukesh Patel, assistant TDO, and Rajesh Thakar, estate inspector — all employees of AMC at the time the houses were constructed — as accused in the case along with contractors, lawyers and notaries who prepared the evidences for the current dwellers and office bearers of the rehabilitation housing project.
 
 “The complaint mentions that at least 25 families were left out of the survey by the officials. At the moment, no record of the original dwellers who were removed from the spot and rehabilitated is available. The issue of allotment was also raised in the CAG report,” said an official.
 
 
