NAGPUR:   ( ) has reprimanded MSEDCL for unnecessary litigations and asked it to withdraw such cases within 45 days. The   said in a recent order that the discom was still incurring legal expenses on such litigations and serious cognisance would be taken on this during the decision on the power tariff.

 The order was passed in a case of Butibori MIDC-based Karamtara Engineering Private Limited ( ), which had filed a petition against MSEDCL’s decision to change its power tariff category from non-continuous to continuous without any application from it.
 
 The Commission order said that MERC had dealt with issue of continuous and non-continuous industrial power tariff in its order dated August 19, 2016. “Despite this, MSEDCL has been fighting many such cases in this regard in various courts. MSEDCL should submit with details with status of withdrawal of pending cases in   and high courts covered by the order within 45 days. If it does not withdraw some or all of them then MSEDCL should give the reasons along with expenditure incurred on legal fees, etc,” the order said.
 
 Big industries fall in two power tariff categories — continuous and non-continuous. The tariff of the latter is substantially lesser than the latter. Due to this, many industries in continuous category shifted to non-continuous. As per MERC directives issued in 2008, category change can be done only if the consumer submits his application for the same within one month of tariff order. 
 
 However, MSEDCL changed the tariff category of industries well after this deadline. But in case of KEPL, MSEDCL changed the category without any application from the consumer.
 
 While ignoring the norms in case of KEPL, MSEDCL incurred a loss of crores after illegally changing the tariff category of around 130 big industries. Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) had taken strong objections to this and questioned the role of then managing director and four other officials.
 
 The MERC’s August 2016 order settled the issue once and for all as the Commission allowed MSEDCL’s petition to do away with the one-month deadline. This led to hundreds of industries changing their tariff category and caused a loss of about Rs800 crore to the discom.
 
 
