NEW DELHI:   demanded that foreign minister   and Union minister Harsimrat Badal of Akali Dal personally apologise to the families of the 39 persons who were killed in Iraq. The opposition party accused Swaraj of misleading the families over the last four years.

 Senior Congress MPs from Punjab, Ambika Soni and  , said Swaraj repeatedly told them that the abducted Indians were alive whenever they raised the issue.
 
 Party president   too expressed shock and offered condolences. “I’m shocked to hear that 39 Indians... are now confirmed dead. My deepest condolences to the families of those who have lived in hope, that their loved ones will return unharmed...” he tweeted.
 
 Slamming the government for “insensitivity”, Soni said, “We want foreign minister, along with Harsimrat Badal and   (Akali Dal leader), to go and meet the families of the deceased and apologise publicly. She should say that she kept them in the dark and that she had no concrete information.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said, “But why did the government give false hope to the nation for three-and-a-half years that the people were still alive? That was disappointing behaviour.
 
 “Why did it take the government so much time to announce this? If the government had no confirmation, why did the government say they were alive,” he said, adding the Centre had cheated the people.
 
 Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala demanded that the Centre pay Rs 1 crore to each of the families of the deceased.
 
 Soni said when she told Swaraj in 2014 about the statement of a person who had managed to escape from IS custody, Swaraj laughed off the matter and questioned the credibility of the person. She said Congress sought information through a ‘calling attention’ motion in Parliament about the abducted Indians but the government insisted that all were alive.
 
 According to Soni, Swaraj said in Parliament, “A person is captive when his communication snaps. But multiple sources have told us that our people were alive and I say with responsibility that they are alive and well.”
 
