CHANDIGARH: SSP Batala Opinderjit Singh Ghuman and SSP Khanna Navjot Singh Mahal are among the six Punjab police officers who have been selected for the chief minister’s medal for outstanding devotion to duty. These officers would be conferred the medal by chief minister   during the Republic Day function in Patiala. Mahal has also been selected for the President’s police medal for distinguished service this year.

 All the six police officers have been selected for the award for displaying “consistently excellent level of performance in their duties. Other Punjab Police Service (PPS) officers who would be bestowed with the award are commandant of the Punjab Police Recruits Traning Centre (PRTC) at   in Hoshiarpur district,   and DSP Nabha Chand Singh. Inspector   of the state special operation cell in Amritsar and Sub Inspector Balwinder Singh of the state police election cell are also proud winners of the medal for their devotion towards service.
 
 Ghuman and Mahal have been selected for the medal for their role in busting a terror module last year which helped crack cases of targeted killing of Hindu leaders. Bhupinder Singh is being conferred the medal for remarkable improvement in the PRTC.
 
 Ghuman had joined the Punjab police as inspector in 1989 and was posted in various districts across Punjab before being promoted as SSP in 2012. He was earlier awarded President’s police medal for distinguished service in 2010 and has got DGP’s commendation disc thrice. Since June last year, Ghuman is on the post of SSP Batala.
 
 Mahal got recruited in the Punjab police as Inspector in 1993 and rose from the ranks to take over as SSP Khanna. He also served for one year in 2002-03 in united nations peace keeping mission in  . Mahal has also undergone an anti-terrorism course in   in 2001. 
 
 Bhupinder Singh is Mahal’s batchmate. He has also served on various posts in Muktsar, Patiala, Jagraon and Faridkot. He was also posted as Commandant of the 5th Indian Reserve Battalion in Amritsar in 2015.
 
 
