HOSHIARPUR: A rural branch of the   in Punjab's Hoshiarpur district is in a fix after more than 220 villagers have refused to pay back the gold loans they had taken, alleging that they were defrauded by a financier. The total number of depositers in the branch is 290. 

 The collective amount of defaulted loans at   village branch is around Rs 7 crore. The bank has found out that the gold deposited by villagers is substandard and only worth only Rs 3 crore. Local SBI officials have pegged their losses at Rs 4.6 crore.
 
 In the preliminary inquiry, bank officials found that a local goldsmith, who was empanelled with them, wrongly certified the hypothecated ornaments in as many as 224 cases where gold loans were taken.
 
 Confirming that some of the gold ornaments had impurities, SBI's regional manager S K Punia on Wednesday said although there was no difference in the weight of gold deposits, the quality was inferior.
 
  founder chairman  , who has chased the case in the last few days, sent a complaint to PM  , finance minister   and the RBI governor and demanded that the case be handed over to CBI.
 
 
 
 
 Vashisht also demanded that random checks be conducted on the gold lying in all bank branches across the country to find out if a similar modus operandi had been adopted elsewhere.
 
 
 TOI had reported on Wednesday that several villagers had accused a village-level financier of taking loans from the SBI’s Bullowal branch in their name. The villagers have alleged that they had approached the financier for loans of a few thousand rupees, but he convinced them to take gold loans from the bank. He then kept a majority of the loan money with himself and gave them small amounts.
 
 
 The villagers alleged that they neither got pass books or ATM cards after the loan money was released in their bank accounts. These were allegedly kept by the financier who withdrew the money either with ATM cards or by using loose cheques he had allegedly got the ‘borrowers’ to sign beforehand.
 
 
 On Monday evening, the villagers had handed over a complaint to Hoshiarpur SSP Elanchezhian. On Wednesday, a group of borrowers led by local activist Jai Gopal Dhiman submitted a complaint to Hoshiarpur additional deputy commissioner Anupam Kler, demanding that the gold lying with the bank be sealed.
 
 
 Punia said, “We have CCTV footage showing the borrowers coming to the bank and depositing the gold. They signed the documents and they can’t claim that they did not take loans. No one would be spared.”
 
 
 The villagers have alleged that the financier had arranged the gold to be used as collateral.
 
 
 
