Trichy: The 10th programme of Happy Streets, which will be conducted at Chithirai Veedhi (South) at Srirangam from 6 am to 9 am this Sunday, is all set to recreate the magic of last week’s programme, which proved to be a classical treat for the participants. The Times of India, with the support of Trichy Corporation and Trichy City Police, kickstarted Happy Streets programme at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street (west) on February 25. After the first three programmes at Thillai Nagar, it was hosted at Uzhavar Sandhai Link Road for the next three weeks and at Race Course Road near Anna Stadium at Khajamalai for Happy Streets 7 and 8 and subsequently at Srirangam last Sunday. Similar to last week’s programme, on April 29, talented youngsters would be provided a platform to deliver exhilarating classical music and dance performances. Apart from this, the founder and president of Tiruchirappalli Notaphily Society, P Vijayakumar, who has by now become an integral part of Happy Streets, will be conducting yet another coin and currency exhibition, where rare collections from the Chola and the Pallava period will be displayed. Another specialty of the forthcoming programme would be an acrobatic performance by talented young skaters from Srirangam Roller Skating Academy. Fun IQ-based contests, in which both the youngsters and adults competed last week, will be conducted this week too. Also, participants would also be provided the most-sought-after zumba and yoga sessions. At Happy Streets 9, a music performance by a college student Preethi Nandhakumar and T M N Yatindrapravanan, who recently gave his Class XII exams and an instrumental performance by siblings R Harish Narayan and R Harini Ishwarya of class XII and VIII respectively enthralled the audience. Apart from this, a Bharatanatyam performance by a group of young girls also got a warm applause from the participants. The Happy Streets initiative will be conducted on every Sunday over the course of next three weeks in Trichy from 6 am to 9 am.