KOCHI: In an attempt to inculcate reading habit among primary school students, the education department is planning to set up around 9,500 classroom libraries in over 1,000 government primary schools across the state.

 Director of   said the proposal for setting up classroom libraries and improving existing libraries was submitted to finance minister   who had approved a Rs 10-crore school libraries’ project in this year’s budget.
 
 A committee has been formed for selecting age-appropriate English and   books for the students. A unique catalogue of books will be prepared by the committee for each grade.
 
 The classrooms will be provided with stainless steel shelves which can accommodate around 200 books.
 
 “The classroom library concept was experimented in certain schools in Alappuzha district last year and it was a success. It raised the inquisitiveness of the children who borrowed books regularly from the library. In many cases, students started showing initiative in managing the library. They even started exchanging books from class to class. Normally, school libraries are rooms that are kept locked. But here the students have direct access to the books. This attempt to scale-up the library facility is part of the government’s public school upgradation initiative,” said Isaac.
 
 The department has delegated the state institute of educational technology (SIET-Kerala) to create an online portal through which the schools can order the books directly from publishers. The state intends to order books in bulk so as to get price reduction.
 
 Furthermore, the DPI also said that they plan to organize book exhibitions in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, and Kozhikode for those school authorizes who are not tech-savvy enough to place orders online, in August.
 
 The department plans on set up the classroom libraries by August-end for which the government has allocated around Rs 4 crore.
 
 Educationalist and   state consultant T P   said classroom libraries will prove effective in helping students develop a reading habit at a young age. “Children do not pick up a reading habit by themselves. It is important for teachers and parents to invest in the cause and encourage them. Reducing the proximity to books by introducing classroom libraries will very useful,” he added.
 
