It was a cup of controversies as both on-field and off-field incidents overshadowed the 1978 edition hosted by Argentina. The country had gone through a military coup in 1976 and Argentine president General Jorge Rafael Videla’s military junta used the tournament to inject nationalist pride in his country that was getting ravaged within. The military junta dictated terms as they wanted Argentina to win the World Cup at any cost, and they did beating Netherlands 3-1 in the final.

 
 
 
 Just before the tournament began, the chairman of the organising committee, General Omar Actis, was killed. As the tournament kicked-off, the controversies moved to on-field. Scotland’s   was sent home for using a banned stimulant.
 
 
 
 Brazil progressed to the second round behind Austria but were denied a place in the final by Argentina, who delayed their final second-round game against Peru to know exactly what they needed to do to seal a final berth. With Brazil winning 3-1 against Poland, the hosts had to win by a four-goal margin and they demolished Peru 6-0. The result ignited several theories that suggested that the Peruvian players were either bribed or threatened by the junta.
 
  
  
 
 The final got off to a delayed start as a bandage worn by Dutch player Rene van de Kerkhof drew protest from the Argentines and almost saw the Netherlands abandoning the title clash. Better sense prevailed as van de Kerkhof finally came with extra padding.
 
 The final was a tense affair and Mario Kempes, the only foreign club-based in player for Argentina, gave them the lead. Netherlands pulled things level through a header from Dirk Nanninga with eight minutes to go. Netherlands were denied a World Cup win in the dying moments as Rob Rensenbrink’s shot hit the post and the final went into extra-time. Kempes put Argentina ahead by adding his second of the night, and sixth of the tournament, in extra–time before Daniel Bertoni put the match beyond Netherland’s reach.
 
 Captain   held aloft the trophy at Estadio Monumental as the World Cup win gave Argentines unbridled joy after years of suffering while the Netherlands, losing finalist for the second successive time, boycotted the post-match ceremonies in protest.
 
 Even as Argentina lifted the cup, a 17-year-old, who didn’t play the tournament because the Argentine coach, Cesar Menotti thought he was too young, was drawing attention with his skills and goal-scoring ability in the Primera Division. He answered to the name, Diego Armando Maradona.
 
