SHIMLA: Vice-president of India M   has appreciated the efforts of   Pradesh government for environment conservation and increasing the green cover. He was speaking at the inaugural address of the 9th Indian Youth   organized by   at NIT, Hamirpur, on Saturday.

 He said that the dream of New India could only be visualized with new ideas and new ways of converting them into reality through effective implementation. He said that New India would be a scientific and technological India.   said that forums like   would enable young minds to share knowledge, information and draw inspiration to come up with new ideas that would power India of the future. He said that the students should be encouraged to ‘discover’ rather than be ‘told’ the answer.
 
 Naidu said that science should be an integral component of the curriculum and scientific approach that relies on evidence and raising relevant questions and seeking answers should be internalized. He said that the conference would usher in greater progress and development by fostering scientific temper among youth.
 
 Himachal Pradesh governor Acharya Devvrat said that India was land of knowledge since time immemorial and Vedic cosmology was the only one the time scales of which corresponded with that of modern scientific cosmology. He said that it was the need of the hour to develop scientific approach by upholding the Indian traditional knowledge. He said that scientific approach without humanitarian thought and humane touch was irrelevant. Global warming was an area of concern and urged the scientists to come forward to tackle this problem. 
 
 Chief minister   said that climate change was a serious challenge for our very existence and scientists should come forward to tackle this problem. He said that in the present era of scientific excellence, the efforts should be made to make India a frontrunner in this field. He said that even in this era of scientific innovation, we should not ignore and abandon our ancient knowledge and wisdom. Union health minister J P Nadda said that scientists must help in incorporating tradition and local knowledge, systems and technologies in research to develop effective and sustainable solutions for human development and progress on the country.
 
 
