PATNA: The   on Friday pulled up the district administration for failing to execute its earlier order of removing iron chest and almirah manufacturing units operating illegally from Alamganj and Sultanganj localities of Patna City.

 A Patna high court division bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice Rajeev Ranjan Prasad, while hearing a public interest litigation filed by Salimullah and Saroj Kumar, asked the Patna DM to appear before it on March 13 and give an explanation as to why the district administration failed to close down these illegal units.
 
 In its counter affidavit submitted in the court on December 19 last year, the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) had stated that the illegal industrial units in Patna City are creating massive pollution in the area. According to the ambient air monitoring report submitted by the BSPCB, particulate matter (PM10) at five out of six places in Patna City between November 28 and December 2 was found to be much higher than the standard limit of 100.
 
 In Alamganj, PM10 level was 453 between 10am and 2pm on December 2. PM10 levels at Nawgarhwa Road, Lala Ka Maidan, Pallavi Nagar and Alabapur were also much higher than the prescribed limit. The BSPCB had provided names and locations of 94 illegal iron chest and almirah manufacturing units which are running in Alamganj and Sultanganj localities. 
 
 The court had given six weeks’ time to the Patna DM to take action in this regard. Later, the deadline was extended to February 2 this year. However, the district administration has so far not taken any action against these units.
 
 Advocates Hansa Jha and Deepak Kumar appeared on behalf of the petitioners during the hearing on Friday.
 
 HC summons Bhojpur DM for contempt of court: The division bench of Justice Ajay Kumar Tripathi and Justice Nilu Agrawal has summoned Bhojpur DM on March 23 in a contempt of court petition filed for failure to remove encroachment from a water body in Tarari circle of the district. 
 
 The contempt petition was filed by one Ram Awadesh Singh of Sadeha village of Tarari block on June 29, 2017. Singh had filed a PIL on January 20, 2014 for removal of encroachment from 3.62 acre of government land with a water body. The court on March 6, 2014 had ordered for removal of the encroachment and restoring the water body. However, the district administration failed to remove the encroachment.
 
 
