JAIPUR: Leopards, which are listed at par with tigers under Schedule I of the   (WPA) 1972, are crying for equal protection in  .

 Since the beginning of this year, a leopard death has been recorded every week in some or the other parts of the state. A big concern is that more than half of these killings are said to be unnatural—caused by road accidents, electrocution or due to man-animal conflicts.
 
 As per the data provided by the   ( ), 14 deaths of leopards were recorded till March 28. The toll rose to 15 on Sunday, after a leopardess was stoned to death by villagers when it strayed into village Neelka in Jaipur district and attacked one person.
 
  
 People For Animals ( ) state president Babu Lal Jaju said, “The forest department is in deep slumber. Appropriate arrangements such as water and augmentation of prey base are not made in forest areas that are habitats of leopards. This is the reason why the animals have started moving into habitations and agriculture fields. There is an increase in the wildlife population, while non-availability of food and water inside the forests and protected areas is a big issue, which is leading to man-animal conflicts. Conflicts with leopards are generally violent and are on the increase.”
 
 Forest and environment minister Gajendra Singh Khimsar said, “Leopard population has increased in the state. Simultaneously, the infrastructure development is also taking place. The deaths are occurring when animals stray out and are unaware of speeding cars and electric poles. Unfortunately, in past two years forest areas in   and Sawai Madhopur have received scanty rainfall. As a result, water holes are not filled. We are working to install solar pumps at war-footing scale.”
 
 Many feel that depletion of natural prey base in most of the forest areas has led to shifting of the wild animals towards killing of livestock. Leopards are highly adaptable animals surviving on a wide variety of prey depending on the habitat.
 
 In many areas of Rajasthan, the big cats are forced to choose an alternative preying on domesticated animals such as goats, sheep and dogs. A source at the   (JBLCR) said, “Leopards here majorly depend on livestock. If this situation continues, people will lose patience and man-animal conflict might increase as the process to receive compensation for livestock killed by wild animals is tedious. Nearly five year ago, a rehabilitation centre was constructed in   where it was proposed that herbivorous would be released to add to the prey base. However, nothing has been done so far.”
 
 The situation has worsened even though Rajasthan was the first state in the country to announce a project to conserve leopards by improving their prey base, mitigating conflicts with humans and controlling poaching.
 
 
