Nagpur: It is peak summer and almost 200 Zilla Parishad schools in Nagpur have gone ‘powerless’ as non-payment of utility bills have led to disconnection by the state-run service provider. While teachers cite acute financial crunch as the reason, ZP administration is asking teachers to be more ‘prudent’ when it comes to sticking to the budget.  Depending on the strength of the school (or number of classrooms), ZP allots anywhere between Rs4,500 to Rs12,000 per year for expenses like electricity, general maintenance, annual functions etc. Sharad Bhandarkar, extension officer with the ZP’s education department, said, “Schools are getting less than Rs 1,000 per month to meet their working expenses. It is not possible for anyone today to survive on such a pitiful amount.” Bhandarkar is also the general secretary for MNS’ Shikshak-Shikshetar Sena.  According to a MSEDCL official, the average monthly bill per school is around Rs800. The official, who did not wish to be identified, said, “I do not have the exact outstanding figure but on an individual basis the amount could range from Rs5000 to 10,000 per school. The tariff we charge them now is for public service category, which is a tad lower than residential tariff.” TOI had reported a similar issue in January 2016, when power was disconnected at various ZP schools for non-payment. That ended when ZP deposited money with MSEDCL. Now ZP administration says schools will have to be more careful in handling expenses. Nisha Sawarkar, ZP president, said, “It’s only in the last two years that we are witnessing these power default problems. I don’t see any major increases in power tariff too. I strongly feel teachers must change the way they look at expenditure and provision properly for expenses. In 2016, we paid Rs10 lakh to clear all pending power dues but this cannot be done all the time.” She added financial aid will be extended to schools once all details are received. “So far, we have not received any proposal seeking infusion of funds,” said Sawarkar.  District’s education officer Dipendra Lokhande told TOI power connections will be restored soon. “We will be getting non-salary grants from this year which will mean that a lot of dues will be cleared and power restored,” he said.