MOHALI: Consecutive cases of vehicle theft in   prove that auto lifters have become carefree and are no longer scared of the cops. In the past 15 days, over a dozen cases of vehicle theft have been reported at various police stations of the district. As per an annual data available with Mohali police, the recovery rate of stolen vehicles have hardly shown any improvement within the span of a year, being stuck at an approximate of 13%.

 On Saturday, two cases were reported in   and Phase XI police stations. In the first case, a tractor was stolen from outside the victim’s residence in Kharar. In the second case, a motorcycle parked in Phase XI was stolen by unidentified persons.
 
 The data available with Mohali police revealed that over 22 vehicles including both   and cars were stolen from different parts of Mohali district every month in the year 2017. The data showed that in the year 2017, 273 vehicles were stolen from different parts of Mohali. While the number of vehicles recovered during the year was just 37. With the recovery rate of stolen vehicles being just 13%, residents are under a state of panic demanding better policing so that such cases can be deterred. 
 
 In majority cases of vehicle theft reported to the cops, the vehicles were either stolen from residential areas or from public parking lots, where there is hardly any vigil. 
 
 In the year 2016, the number of vehicles stolen was 246, and only 34 vehicle of the total could be recovered during the year. 
 
 Senior cops explained that thieves have been targeting vehicles which are popular and widely used. They also added that the vehicles bearing routine colours like black, grey, silver are largely targeted. However, white coloured cars are the widely stolen ones. The vehicle thieves prefer such colour given their commonness which makes it difficult to be distinguished as only a few people drive vehicles with colours like blue, brown and green.
 
 Cops said it had come out in the interrogation of the arrested lifters that most of the gangs involved in stealing four-wheelers are based out of the city, whereas those lifting two-wheelers are from the city itself. Observing the cases of the past few years, Mohali police ascertained that the accused involved in  , largely comprise of young men, who either steal vehicles to fulfil their expenses or to buy different types of drugs. 
 
 During the investigation, cops have also found that the stolen vehicles have often been used for other petty crimes and in some cases of snatching too. 
 
 Senior police official also confirmed that mechanisms are being developed to trace the stolen vehicles during routine checking in different parts of the district.
 
 
