NEW DELHI: A   escaped from   under a hail of   on Monday when he was brought to  . 

 Sandeep Kumar alias Sanjay alias Dhilloo was formerly associated with gangsters Neeraj Bawana and Sandeep Mental. He then switched loyalties and joined the Tillu gang with some other youths. 
 
 Around 10.30am on Monday, Kumar was brought to the hospital for a follow-up visit by ASI Braj Mohan, ASI Naresh Pal and head constable Yogender in an Eeco from jail. Kumar had undergone a minor surgery to extract a tooth on February 9 and had been advised to visit again on February 19. 
 
 The escape act began around 11.15am when Kumar was coming out of the hospital from a gate that opens towards Bal Bhavan. Three men, who had parked a bike and scooter near the gate, attacked the policemen by throwing   into their eyes. As the policemen writhed in pain, Kumar and his accomplices started to flee. 
 
  
  
 Locals said the men opened fire in the air to scare away onlookers. “I had initially thought the gunfire to be from a motorbike, but when we saw a policeman crouching with his head on the face, I presumed he was shot,” said Dinesh Lal who runs an eatery nearby. 
 
 “One of the policemen was rubbing his eyes and tried to fire at the wheels of the bike but missed. There were patients and their relatives at the scene. There was panic among them as well,” said a vendor.
 
 Police said they fired four rounds. A policeman even tried to chase the criminals but gave up after they threatened to shoot him. 
 
 Locals said a PCR van is usually parked near the exit every day, but it was on patrol when the incident occurred. The criminals took advantage of heavy traffic on Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg to flee towards Delhi Gate. CCTV feed showed Kumar riding pillion on a bike. 
 
 Two of the policemen had to be admitted to a hospital.
 
 Kumar is involved in three cases of murder and other extortion and robbery cases. Police have warned that he is armed and dangerous. 
 
 Delhi Police’s chief spokesperson Dependra Pathak said, “A manhunt has been launched to trace the suspect and his accomplices. A breakthrough is expected soon.” The policemen escorting Kumar have been suspended and an FIR registered in connection with the incident, officials said.
 
 Crime branch and special cell teams were learnt to be conducting multiple raids in Delhi, UP, Uttarakhand and Haryana. Teams were camping in Jhajjar and Bahadurgarh on Monday evening. Informers in criminal gangs are being used to trace criminals who have suddenly gone missing so that Kumar’s accomplices could be identified.
 
 
