CHENNAI: The all-white ensemble — short pinafore, long stockings, stiff cap and belle shoes – that has been the uniform of nurses in the state for a long time is set to become history. Government nurses in   have petitioned the health department seeking a change.

 
 On Friday, during a function on theeveof InternationalDayfor Nurses,health minister C   said a committee under   project director P   would ensure that nurses have smart scrubs and sneakers that will help them stay comfortable during their long hours of work.
 
 “They wanted an outfit that will keep them at ease while they are working with modernequipment.Thecommittee will come out with their options soon,” he said after presenting awards to 251 nurses.
 
 Long after the minister made the announcement, many nurses couldn’t stop smiling. “Almost all private hospitals have moved on to more colourful scrubs. It’s not just about being in vogue, but about staying at ease. Many nurses are so conscious that they keep pulling their dress down even when they are assisting in emergencies. Comfortable dress and shoes will better patient outcomes,” said 34-year-old R  , who works as a senior nurse.
 
 But what made most nurses happier was the government’s promise to bring in a long bridge course, promotions and morejobopportunities. The state health departmentis now working withthe Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University on the procedure for introducing a bridge course – diploma to degree.
 
 “Diploma holders study for three years while degree holders study for four years. The bridge course will offer a one-year intensive training for diploma holders covering all the subjects they haven't studied so that they can be awarded degrees,” he said amid thunderous applause. The course material prepared by the state medical university would be sent to the national nursing council for approval, the minister said.
 
 The government is in the process of preparing a list of nurses for promotion and recruitment of freshers, he said. The state medical recruitment board has so far appointed 9,533 nurses to various government hospitals.
 
 
