THANE: Swift and meticulous police action, backed by extensive CCTV coverage across Thane and Mumbai, helped rescue in 24 hours a newborn kidnapped from Thane civil   early on Sunday. Three people were arrested from Kalyan.

 The  , which went missing around 3am on Sunday, was reunited with his mother Mohini Bhovar, 19, on Monday morning.
 
 Gudiya Rajbhar, 35, her husband Sonu, 40, and their relative Vijay Srivastava, 55, were arrested in the slums of Pisavli village around 11am. Besides the baby, six children—between two months and 12 years —were   in the house. The Rajbhar couple claimed them as their own. Police plan to conduct DNA tests.
 
 The newborn, swathed in a blanket, was returned in the hospital to his mother, who had spent a day crying, refusing her prescribed diet, and cursing herself and the people around for the loss of her baby five hours after a normal delivery late on Saturday.
 
 Madhukar Pandey, joint commissioner of police, Thane, said CCTV footage from the hospital had shown a woman in a pink saree taking away Bhovar’s child from the labour ward in the early hours of Sunday. “She could be seen fleeing with a 12-year-old girl and Srivastav. The trio boarded an autorickshaw and went to Thane station,” added Pandey. They boarded the 4:30am Ambernath-CSMT train and took the same train back to Kalyan.
 
 “It was the first train they saw in the station and boarded so as not to evoke suspicion. When they reached CSMT, they did not get off. The rake had become a Titwala-bound local, and they continued on it. We sent eight officers and 25 police officials to various stations, from CSMT to Titwala. After going through the CCTV footage, we saw the three alighting at Kalyan. After inquiries, we found that Gudiya stayed with her husband Sonu and Srivastav in Pisavli,” said Nitin Thakre, a senior inspector from crime branch unit-1, who raided their house.
 
 On Monday morning, the cops arrived at the small two-room house. In one room, were the six children. “When we asked for the abducted infant, Gudiya claimed there wasn’t any. We started searching and found a bunker, made of sacks and covered with newspapers. The baby was kept inside,” said an officer.
 
 The police said they do not suspect the involvement of any hospital staff. Also, going by the condition of the six children, they assume they had been abducted for begging.
 
 When TOI spoke to the children, they seemed to have been tutored. They claimed they were siblings, but could not recall each other’s birthdays. The eldest 12-year-old girl claimed she helped her “mother” with household chores. The children also claimed they attended a nearby Hindi medium school, which the cops said they will verify. They have been sent to a children’s home.
 
 
