BHOPAL: Eyeing members from the opposite camp as the bypoll date for Kolaras and Mungaoli draws close,   and   are leaving no stone unturned to 'lure' party members into their fold. But in Mungaoli, BJP's efforts proved futile when it tried to bait Manoj Jain, a close aide of Congress MP  . Jain himself ruled out the possibility of joining the saffron party. 

 Speculations of Jain joining the BJP were rife during his recent meetings with state BJP leaders, who were seen camping in Mungaoli since over last month during bypoll since the last one month. 
 
 On Saturday, when chief minister   along with some of his cabinet ministers and state BJP president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan reached Jain's Ashoknagar house for a breakfast meeting, it even gave a tangible evidence to the speculations. The meeting lasted for almost 40 minutes and everybody was expecting that Jain would soon announce his decision to join the ruling party. Even state PWD minister Rampal Singh briefed the local media, saying that Jain was in touch with BJP leaders for a long time and would be joining the party today. But, it turned out to be a damp squib for the BJP.
 
 Striking down speculations that he would switch allegiance, Jain said that he was not joining the BJP and the breakfast meeting was only a courtesy call, since the chief minister is an old acquaintance. "This was a family gathering chief minister Chouhan attended the breakfast meeting as head of the state. I had invited him for breakfast and there was no politics involved. I am not joining the BJP", Jain clarified to reporters, that led to utter embarrassment for many in the ruling party.
 
 The whole incident can be termed as a setback for the BJP's state leadership as it had convinced the chief minister about the Congress leader jumping the ship. Chouhan also ruled out that the meeting was political.
 
 "Jain is a friend and close colleague. We all sat together, had breakfast, sipped tea and chatted", Chouhan said after the meeting. When asked about his differences with Jyotiraditya, the chief minister said he has no personal fight with any leader.
 
 "Why do people involve us in a fight? I don't even know what fighting is. In a democracy, there is no fight between leaders. It's not a wrestling bout and you can't term it to be some kind of a fight. The elections are for development and well-being of the public. Why do I have to fight with someone?" said Chouhan.
 
 Congress on its part called it a failed effort of the BJP to lure its leader in order to make a dent in Jyotiraditya's team. BJP and Congress are pitted against each other in the upcoming bypolls and leaders from both the parties admitted that a breakfast meeting between two leaders from rival camps is an 'unexpected surprise'.
 
 
