A 14-member group of youngsters in   has signed up as volunteers to harvest fruits like mangoes, jackfruit, jamun and chiku from the trees in the area.

 
 Plucking fruits summer after summer, the group is not only earning revenue, but also blessings from the elders in the area who earlier watched on helplessly as the fruits would fall and rot.
 
 Sahakarnagar is rich in green cover and has many fruit trees. However, the fruits would ripen on the trees and later fall, littering the area. Taking a cue from this, a few members of the group initially launched paid harvesting services.
 
 One of the residents,  , got two mango trees in his premises harvested on Wednesday. “This is an excellent initiative. Many professional agencies charge as much as Rs 3 per fruit and this becomes extremely expensive. An old person like me can’t climb up a tree for the fruits. It would all go to waste. Due to old age or lack of time, people were unable to enjoy the harvest. The team of youngsters has made it possible for families in the neighbourhood to enjoy the ripe fruits from our own trees.”
 
 Working under the banner of Sai Rahul team and Aadar Pratishtan, the group successfully harvested fruits from 400 houses last summer.
 
 Group member   said there are hundreds of bungalows in Sahakarnagar and the surrounding area that have at least two fruit trees in their premises. “A few of us launched a professional service some years ago charging anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 per tree to pluck fruits for the house owners. Due to this charge, however, we did not get many orders. Around four years ago, we were formally engaged in providing free services to such houses. Since then, the response grew, and we got nearly 25 to 30 new enquiries daily in the summer,” he said.
 
 As to how the group came about, Rahul Mane of the Sai Rahul team, said an elderly citizen from the area Balasaheb   told him about the nearly 3,500 to 4,000 fruit trees in Sahakarnagar. “He told me that almost all fruits are wasted. Some people provided them with professional harvesting services, but it did not work out. That’s when I connected with the others. They brought a few more aboard and started providing free harvesting services in the area. In 2016, we harvested trees in 150 houses and earned up to Rs 40,000. In 2017, we harvested trees in 400 houses and the earnings touched Rs 86,000. This year, our income will cross Rs 1 lakh,” Mane said.
 
 Mane said they will earn their income by selling some of the collected fruits to the local wholesale shops at Market Yard. “The owner keeps a major share, while some is handed over to our team. We collect the fruit and hand them over to a wholesaler in the Market Yard for sale. This is how we generate income. The money earned is distributed among the team members equally,” he said.
 
 Explaining how he came up with the idea, Balasaheb Fadnavis said, “In 2010, I noticed hundreds of fruits strewn on the roads. I spoke to some people in the neighbourhood about this and they said labour was expensive. People felt there were no returns from paying exorbitantly just to harvest the fruit. I wrote to the gardens department of the   as they have ladders and other equipment necessary, but there was no response. I then got in touch with Mane and he understood the concept and started the initiative.”
 
 According to Fadnavis, this initiative should not be restricted to Sahakarnagar. “it should become a people’s movement. In a year, we harvested 20 tonne fruit that would have otherwise gone to waste. This is the situation in all big cities across the country. People should undertake this initiative everywhere,” he said.
 
 Akash Payaal, a young team member, is currently pursuing his bachelor’s degree. “The money we earn harvesting fruits has helped many of us supplement our family income. I was able to pursue my education from this income,” he said.
 
