Surat: A high-level court inquiry has been demanded into illegal construction of buildings obstructing the flight path of aircraft at Surat airport.  An airport group in the city has written to chief minister Vijay Rupani and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) seeking high-level inquiry against SMC, PWD and AAI authorities and realtors in connection with the height issue of 18 buildings that obstruct the flight path of aircraft at Surat airport.  The TOI had highlighted in its report dated March 23 gross negligence on the part of district administration and Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) authorities that allowed realtors to change the coordinates of the no objection certificates (NOCs) issued by the AAI and construct residential apartments at other locations. The TOI accessed the information under Right to Information (RTI) Act from the AAI on 18 residential apartments.  A majority of 18 buildings have been constructed at the spots other than the ones approved by the AAI for which it had issued NOCs. Not only this, realtors flouted the building height norms and constructed apartments in excess heights in the range of 0.56 metre to 12.38 metre, clearly obstructing the flight path at Surat airport.  “The AAI and Gujarat government should order a high-level inquiry to fix the responsibility of officials who acted hand-in-glove with the realtors. Even the architects and the officials of public works department (PWD) furnished different coordinates of the land that allowed the realtors to construct buildings at other places,” airport group member Sanjay Ezhawa said.  Ezhawa said, “Even AAI authorities in Surat and western region are to be blamed for not carrying out periodic survey of the buildings to ensure that they did not obstruct the flight path of aircraft. The latest survey of the buildings was conducted in 2017, a decade after the first one in 2007.” Airport groups said district collectorate, SMC and the AAI authorities are not ready to take responsibility for illegal constructions around the airport.  “Without resolving the height issue of 18 buildings obstructing flight path at Surat airport, we will have to forget about international airport and increased domestic air connectivity of the city. After the directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) displacing 615 metre of runway, we are left with only 2,290 metre of runway for use. This is the same length of the runway as it was in use earlier. The load penalty on aircraft still continues,” RTI activist Rajesh Modi said.