CHENNAI: Government records accessed through a series of RTI queries have revealed that more than 1,000  , permitted to be run as ordinary services, were being operated as express services in Coimbatore between 2012 and 2017.

 Back-of-the-envelope calculations show that the illegal excess fare collection by violating these norms could be in the range of Rs 350 crore in these five years. Similar violations by   and other transport corporations have gone unnoticed, said activists.
 
 Direction by the consumer redressal forum on February 15 against   Coimbatore violation has opened a Pandora’s box.
 
 A government bus had acquired permit from the concerned regional transport office (RTO) to operate in between Coimbatore Railway Station and Vadavalli as an ordinary service. However, it was run as express and Rs 8 was collected as the minimum fare instead of Rs 5 from every passenger. K Kathirmathiyon, a consumer rights activist, and a passenger, filed a complaint with the local RTO and started digging by filing a series of RTI petitions.
 
 But this was not an isolated incident as nearly 1,000 other government buses were penalised by transport enforcement authorities for such violations since 2012 in and around Coimbatore, replies to Kathirmathiyon’s queries suggest. A fine of Rs 500 to Rs 9,000 was collected per violation.
 
 But this is the first time the corporation is facing the heat as the forum has ordered stringent action against violation of permit conditions. All these years, it was let off with a fine and of late, this amount was reduced to Rs 100.
 
 “The very idea of collecting fines is to ensure that the lawbreakers do not repeat the offence. However, TNSTC Coimbatore, which earns lakhs every day, was least bothered about paying this minimal amount as fine,” said Kathirmathiyon. “Other transport corporations have also looted in crores. But no stringent action has been taken against them,” he said.
 
 TOI has already reported similar violations by MTC in Chennai. Nearly 110 MTC buses were operated along routes on which they were not supposed to ply, show government records.
 
 This is violation of Rule Number 248 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989 and attracts a fine of Rs 2,500 for the first time and Rs 5,000 for subsequent violations. Data shows that the MTC in Chennai has been violating this rule since 2011 by operating at least two trips in an inappropriate manner.
 
 For instance, bus number M19A is permitted to operate only between T Nagar and Kelambakkam. However, it was operated till Kancheepuram, showed government records. Similarly, more than 100 other buses from Vadapalani, Broadway, Adyar and Tambaram were operated to Chengalpet, Sunguvarchatram, Mahendra City and other adjoining areas. They owe the transport department at least Rs 190 crores in fines. Transport department officials said buses were operated on these routes only during peak hours to meet the additional demand.
 
 
