MADURAI: For the 155 students selected from the government and aided-schools in Madurai, Wednesday was fun-filled and a day of exposure to the rich heritage of Madurai city. The one-day tour, arranged by the  , covered Alagarkoil, World Tamil Sangam, Gandhi Museum and Government Museum, Mariamman Teppakulam, Thiruparankundram Eco-park and Thirumalai Nayak Mahal. 
 
 Madurai District Collector K Veera Raghava Rao flagged-off the tour at   on   Wednesday morning. Addressing students, the collector said that the tourism department had come out with a new scheme of taking poor students on tour. As many as 155 students from 16 schools have been selected for the tour. The students were shortlisted by the chief education officer from three education districts such as Melur, Usilampatti and Madurai. “The tour has been arranged in such a way to give the students an exposure to the heritage of Madurai,” he said. 
  
 District tourism officer S M  , chief education officer Marimuthu, Tamil Nadu Hotel manager David and other officials participated in the flag-off. 
  
 M Arasu, a class VI student of   in the district said that it was for the first time that they had come on a tour to these places with friends. It was unknown to him that there are so many places to see in the city. It is a good initiative and it should continue, he said. One of the teachers accompanying the students, S Venkateswari, seconded the boy’s opinion stating that it is a revelation that there are so many places to visit in Madurai. The programme should be extended to all schools in future, she said. 
  
 At Mahal, there was a quiz programme for students. The tour was concluded in the evening, and the students were distributed certificates of participation. The tourism department had also arranged food for these students and provided school bags and a cap for the tour. 
  
 The district tourism officer said that it was a first of its kind initiative from the state government, taking students on heritage places in their respective districts. There will be more such tours for students in coming months, he said. 
  
  
