GURUGRAM: The petrol pump obstructing the Iffco Chowk underpass will now be shifted to Sector 42 on Golf Course Road, where a taxi stand was proposed earlier.   has changed the zoning plan of the sector to resolve the deadlock over an alternative site for the petrol pump.

 The delay in shifting   has held up the completion of the Iffco Chowk underpass, recently prompting Union minister Nitin Gadkari to take the issue up with Haryana chief minister  . Since then, state agencies have been under pressure to provide an alternative land. 
 
 NHAI has opened the Rajiv Chowk and Signature Tower underpasses, but the Iffco Chowk underpass, which is also part of the decongestion scheme of important junctions on the Delhi-Gurugram expressway, is held up. 
 
 Huda estate officer 2 Vivek   said, “We’ve got permission to give a site in Sector 42 on Golf Course Road to the petrol pump owner.” 
 
 The tussle between Huda and HPCL dealer Sukhjit Mann over the shifting started in December 2016. Mann claimed the process of getting a new plot has been daunting. She said, “I’m a senior citizen. I had to put up a fight with so many people in the administration to get this land. It has been a tedious process. I was also under pressure — an official from PWD had called and asked me to vacate the land at Iffco Chowk.”
 
 Mann said, “Initially, in August 2016, we were offered an alternative site by Huda on NH-8 near Ambience mall in Sector 24-25. But when we visited the proposed site with HPCL, we found high tension wires there and requested for an alternative plot which was 100m away. The proposed land was later taken away from us after we had managed to get several clearances, including forest clearance and no-objection certificate ( ) from the district administration.”
 
 After that, Huda had shown three more sites to Mann on Golf Course Road, but she didn’t like them. Huda had told Mann that she would be given another site in a day or two. However, it took more time to get approvals, including from Chandigarh, before the new offer could be made.
 
 Mann said it would take three weeks to shift the pump to the new site. Saurabh Singhal, traffic transport expert at Bloom Companies, the NHAI consultant for the Iffco Chowk project, said, “We’re hopeful the shifting will be done in the next 15 days. If the land is vacated by March 1, we will complete the underpass by the next month.”
 
 
