KOLKATA: A Vizag-bound SpiceJet   that was scheduled to leave Kolkata on Sunday morning left the city 21 hours later on Monday afternoon. The delay left the flight’s 45 odd passengers fuming in anger as they waited at the airport for over six hours before it finally took off at 3.45pm on Monday after being rescheduled five times.

 
  
  
 
 SpiceJet officials blamed a “technical glitch” clubbed with a 100 kmph dust storm in Delhi, which left flight schedules across the country haywire, for the delay. The flyers — job aspirants who missed interviews, businessmen who had to cancel meetings and people on vacations who lost time and money — had a harrowing waiting at the airport lounge with none of the on-ground officials giving them an explanation.
 
 P Chalpati Rau, a hotelier from Kolkata, had a business meeting in   at 3pm on Monday that he had to cancel. “I had booked the flight for Sunday, but on Saturday I got a text message from the airline that said the flight was rescheduled to leave the airport at 6.45am on Monday because of a technical glitch. On Sunday evening, I received another text saying the flight was further rescheduled to 11am on Monday. When I reached the airport at 9am, I was informed that the flight will leave at 1pm. Around 12 noon, the ground staff told us the flight will take off only at 2.30pm. We could finally take off at 3.45pm.” Rau, unable to get proper information from officials, lodged a complaint with the airport manager and the customer care department of the airline about the same.
 
 Muskan Minda, a third year BBA and interior designing student at St Xavier’s college, was also stuck at the airport. “We were not offered any specific information about the actual time of departure,” said Minda, who had an internship interview at a private company on Monday evening, but missed it as the flight reached Vizag only at 5.10pm on Monday.
 
 Manoswini Mallick and her family, who had booked a hotel and a cab at Vizag on Sunday afternoon for a holiday, also suffered. “Our entire schedule went haywire because of the delay. Neither the hotel nor the cab agreed to refund our booking amount. Our entire holiday plan has gone for a toss,” Mallick said.
 
 A SpiceJet spokesperson said a technical glitch in the 78-seater aircraft had forced them to cancel the flight on Sunday. “A component of the aircraft had to be replaced. That was resolved by Sunday evening. On Monday, a Dhaka sector flight was scheduled to land at Kolkata by 11am and take the passengers to Vizag. But Sunday’s dust storm forced the delay. We regret the inconvenience,” the spokesperson said.
 
