CHENNAI: The 2,476-crore modernisation programme of Chennai   got a fillip on Wednesday with the  , chaired by Prime Minister  , giving its approval for a 3,36,000sqm integrated terminal. The work is expected be completed in 2021. 

 
  
  An artist’s impression of the new terminal of the Chennai airport which is expected to be completed by 2021
 
 
 The new terminal will be built after demolishing the existing domestic and international terminals as part of phase 2 expansion of the airport. Though the integrated terminal was expected to come up at an area of 2,04,886sqm, the Cabinet has approved an additional space of 1,31,114sqm. This would improve the airport's total passenger handling capacity by 5million per year from 30million to 35 million passengers. 
 
 Modernisation work includes building of a new integrated terminal, a tunnel to the proposed satellite terminal on the airfield, multilevel car park, common user cargo terminal and improving the taxiways, parking bays and other facilities. 
 
 
 
 
 Minister of civil aviation Suresh Prabhu tweeted about the approval. AAI officials said demolition of old buildings and tender for contracting out work for new terminal are under way. 
 
 The total built up area of the proposed integrated terminal building, including the present proposal measuring 1,97,000sqm shall be 3,36,000sqm. The new terminal building incorporates green building features with an aim to achieve GRIHA-4 Star rating. The building would cater to the requirement of passenger growth up to the year 2026-27, said a PIB statement. 
 
 As per the presentation submitted by the ministry before the CCEA, the integrated terminal's facade and interiors will be decorated by incorporating local architectural features and aesthetics. 
 
 As per the new design policy, a one eminent and reputed architect or artist is associated along with the architect of the selected project management consultant Aecom-US. 
 
 The new terminal, expected to be completed in three years, will include modern and hassle-free features for passengers like no repeated identity check, access to all check points through face-recognition doors, paperless and seamless travel, minimum queue policy, real-time alerts and value-added services. 
 
 The glass and steel structure will have an extended canopy covering the entire flyover that runs in front of the terminals as per contemporary airport designs across the globe. Though the new domestic and international departure levels also have a large canopy, it does not protect alighting passengers from rainwater and smaller awnings had to be installed later. 
 
 Phase 2 of the modernisation work is already underway, with civil engineers supervising the demolition of old domestic terminal.
 
 
