PUDUCHERRY: Former Lok Sabha member M Ramadass has urged Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research ( ) to spruce up medical facilities and services at its branch college-cum-hospital at  , 140 km from the headquarters.

 Ramadass sought the Jipmer administration to delink services from the Karaikal government general hospital and extend the medical care and services from its building opposite the bus stand. Jipmer had closed its clinic and shifted the facilities to the Karaikal government general hospital a few months ago. The specialists from the main campus in Puducherry, who used to visit   once a week to extend treatment, are now visiting only once in two weeks.
 
 “The specialists are visiting only twice a month for reasons unknown to the people of Karaikal. Further, the old clinic of Jipmer has been closed and the specialists are made to work from the general hospital, Karaikal. At a time when Jipmer has established a medical college centre and a hospital attached to it, it is expected to come up with the availability of more healthcare facilities. Reducing the frequency of the visits of the specialists has sent shock waves to the beneficiaries and the general public,” Ramadass said, urging Jipmer to restore the weekly visits of specialists to Karaikal.
 
 He said the Karaikal people expect Jipmer to emerge as a full-fledged medical college with a grade one hospital at the earliest.
 
 He was of the opinion that the temporary teaching faculty members and facilities for clinical training were ‘woefully inadequate’. “This situation would adversely affect the quality of the otherwise brilliant students studying there, besides creating disparities between the students of the main campus and Karaikal centre, which may result in poor performance of the latter in examinations. As an interim measure, organise clinical training for these students for three months on the main campus in Puducherry to tide over the problem,” he said.
 
 Ramadass said the institution must take immediate action to provide excellent healthcare to the poor.
 
 Jipmer established its outreach activities at Karaikal in March 2009. Jipmer’s Karaikal branch commenced academic activities in December 2016 in temporary buildings.
 
 
