Mysuru: Although a case was filed against the   of   Yellalinga Kumar, who allegedly assaulted lawyer and president of the BJP’s Mysuru youth wing Gokul Govardhan, advocates associated with the  , are continuing to demand the SI’s suspension.

 Condemning the alleged assault on Govardhan, president of the bar association GV Rammurthy on Sunday said, “The people have this notion of police being high-handed, and are scared to approach them. With such officers in the police department, public will be afraid to go to the station and even file a complaint. Instead of suspending Yellalinga Kumar, he has been transferred to the VVPuram station. This is unacceptable.” Mysuru Bar Association members have invited office-bearers from bar associations across the state to participate in their protest.
 
 The association secretary KP Suresh opined that an impartial probe into the case would not be possible if Yellalinga were to continue. “He should be suspended immediately,” Suresh said, adding that if officers such as Yellalinga continued to be in the force, people would be afraid even to enter stations.
 
 Suresh also expressed his unhappiness with police over its unwillingness to release CCTV footage of what transpired at the Nazarbad Police Station, he added, “The footage will help nail the culprit. We want the CCTV footage to be made public since that will provide clinching evidence.”
 
 The association’s joint secretary CH Eshwar said, “Police claim that Gokul Govardhan assaulted Yellalinga with a poker, and have an FIR under sections 353, 504, 506, 324 and 323 of the Indian Penal Code. IPC 353 is a non-bailable offence, and yet, police have not detained Govardhan. The FIR was filed after Govardhan was released, and the cops’ motive appears clear: prove that Gokul was the one who assaulted the sub-inspector.”
 
 Asking why Govardhan had not been produced before a magistrate when a non-bailable offence was booked against him, said Eshwar.
 
 On why lawyers were resorting to agitation instead of battling the issue legally, the members said, “Law will take its own due course. When lawyers are being beaten up by police, there is a need to spread awareness among the people about their high-handedness.”
 
 The lawyers affirmed that they would continue to boycott court proceedings till they got justice.
 
 The lawyers also criticised Mysuru Commissioner A subramanyeshwar Rao. “While the commissioner claims that stations are more people-friendly, but is this what it means? Many days have passed since the altercation at the station, but neither the commissioner nor the DCP has taken any action,” they said.
 
 
