Before officially beginning their annual cultural festival, Montage, the students of Jesus & Mary College declared war on   in a unique way. On Saturday, over 300 students from the college assembled outside 
Central Park,  , in order to attempt to break the   of the longest selfie relay chain – the maximum number of people clicking selfies at the same time in queue in a relay pattern. While the results will be out after three months, all of them hope that they have been successful in breaking the record.
 
  
  
 
 
 On Saturday, visitors outside   were left confused when they saw more than 300 students queuing up to take selfies outside the park. Some thought that it was part of some initiative, while others approached the representatives from the college to ask, "Kya ho raha hai yahan?". When they got to know about the world record attempt, some of those who came asking questions also joined the chain. "We attempted to break the Guinness World Record and we have finally declared war on TB. We at JMC believe that before you start a festival, you have to achieve something, which you then celebrate at the fest. You have to earn the celebrations, and for that, we wanted to show our solidarity to TB patients. To mark this, we attempted to make the world’s longest selfie chain. The record till now has 157 people, which was filed by a group in the UAE and their attempt is also under verification. Today we had over 347 people taking selfies together. We are going to submit the evidence today itself and we’ll have the results after three months. The adjudicators were from different independent organizations, all from outside JMC. They first got their validation from the   as we had sent their details first and then they were taken on board," said Raavi Jotwani, president of the college.
  
  
  
 
 
 The students present at the venue were overwhelmed to be part of something as big as this for a social cause. "It was incredible because I was doing this for the first time and we attempted to break the record of the longest selfie chain. Taking selfies is something that we all enjoy, so it was the best thing to do to break the record. It was a unique way to announce war on tuberculosis. I liked this idea and I hope we have broken the record," said Bhawna, a first-year student of Economics (Hons) at the college.
 Angelina Francis, a first-year student from the department of Sociology, added, "It felt incredible to be associated with something as big as this which also had a social cause attached to it. Taking a selfie connects all of us and we really loved the energy of the people here."
 
 
  
 
