Madurai: Jallikattu events in Madurai are set to kick start from January 14 with the first event taking place in Avaniyapuram. While jallikattu event at Palamedu will be held on January 15, the renowned Alanganallur event conducted by state government will take place on the following day. Officials from various departments like revenue, police, animal husbandry, fire and rescue, tourism took part in the consultative meeting held at Madurai district collectorate on Wednesday. Members of the jallikattu event committees from Avaniyapuram, Palamedu and Alanganallur too participated. Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that all safety measures as per regulations will be strictly enforced. Jallikattu committees headed by revenue divisional officer have been formed to make sure the safety measures are in place.  According to the regulations eight-feet-high double barricade, collection point with fodder and water for bulls should be in place. The events will commence at 8 am and go on till 3 pm. He said that teams have been formed to screen the bulls and tamers. Bulls should be not less than four-feet high and should be at least three-year old. Similarly, tamers should be in good health and must be declared fit by the health team. Tokens would be issued to them three days before the event. District collector added that at each event there would be 10 health teams for screening, mobile medical units, 10 ambulances, three fire tenders along with 30 fire fighters would be in place. Around 500 police personnel would be deployed. He also said that to make the sport more eventful, the tamers would be allowed in batches. 75 tamers would be allowed to participate in each batch. However, the best players identified in each batch would be allowed to continue. Mobile toilet and drinking water facility would be ensured for the spectators. They were also taking steps to accommodate maximum number of spectators.  Last year 30 jallikattu events were conducted in various pockets of the district. This year four applications have been received so far. With the Pongal festival fast approaching, villages are gearing up to conduct jallikattu events. Apart from villages, where the sport is traditionally conducted, many villages have shown willingness to conduct it for the first time. 