HYDERABAD: Taking cue from various metropolitan cities in the country, Hyderabad will soon have its first steel flyover at RTC crossroads. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation ( ) is to construct the two level flyover from Indira Park to   junction via RTC crossroads to end traffic snarls on that stretch.

 “The steel bridge will be taken up at a cost of ₹426 crore. The proposal has been sent to the municipal administration department for administrative sanction,” GHMC chief engineer (projects) R Sridhar told TOI.
 
 The 3.45 km flyover has been divided into two levels. The main flyover will stretch from NTR stadium junction to VST junction (Ramnagar junction) having a length of 2.6 km. Another level will be from Ramnagar towards   at a length of 0.84 km. Once the flyover is completed, it will come as a huge relief to commuters passing through RTC crossroads towards Musheerabad,   and also from Indira Park to VST, Nallakunta and Bagh Lingampally areas.
 
 
  
  
 
 The corporation has been planning to construct a flyover at RTC crossroads for the past 15 years as traffic at the crossroads gets choked during peak hours. In addition to the congested roads, people have been facing major commuting issues due to the traffic flow from cinema theatres that are located around the crossroads.
 
 Official sources said a flyover was proposed at RTC crossroads in 2004-2005 along with other flyovers at Punjagutta, Greenlands, Chandrayangutta and   crossroads. However, following opposition from local shopkeepers, it was spiked.
 
 After the metro rail project was taken up five years ago (Corridor II JBS to Falaknuma passes through RTC crossroads), the GHMC has widened the Musheerabad to Narayanguda road from about 60 ft to 100 ft.
 
 “Though the cost of steel bridge is 40% to 50% than conventional flyovers, it has been decided to construct a steel flyover as it has some advantages. The first thing is there will be minimum inconvenience during construction and the flyover can be taken up even on the existing road width except at one or two places,” the chief engineer said.
 
 For a normal and conventional flyover, the cost will be around Rs 300 crore, but for the steel flyover, the cost would escalate to Rs 426 crore. It has been decided to first go for the steel flyover at RTC crossroads and put the other flyovers on hold for the time being.
 
 
