In the latest episode of  ,   thinks whether she should call her parents and inform them about Zoya's condition.  's mother tries to console Noor after seeing her being worried for Zoya. The doctor informs Noor and   that   is stable. Noor goes to Zoya and scolds her unconscious sister for being careless and not thinking about everybody's love but only Yash. 

 Aditya then stands at the door watching them. Noor goes and completes the hospital formalities and Aditya walks up to Zoya. He puts his hand on her head and tries to leave but Zoya holds his hand. She thanks him for saving her life and Aditya thanks her in return as he remembers that he was about to get intimate with the girl he had met at the bar. He walks out of the room and meanwhile, Zoya tries to get the glass of water and drops it.
 
 Zoya's mother is worried as hr daughter's photo frame breaks and she tries calling Zoya. Mahi, who is not worried about Zoya, eats chips. Noor angrily walks away and leaves her phone there. Mahi picks up the Noor's phone when the later's mother calls and gets to know that Noor ran away from the house. Mahi further gets to know that Noor has no internship and Mahi plans to inform Zoya about her sister. 
 
 Later Aditya overhears Mahi and Yash's mother discussing with a nurse about the bills and tells her that Zoya needs to be shifted to the general ward.
 
 Aditya stops them from doing so and tells them that the hospital trustee is his friend and he has got Zoya's payment complimentary. On the other hand, Arjun is confused about his brother Aditya's obsession with Zoya. Harshvardhan asks Arjun about Aditya's whereabouts and even asks him to find out which lawyer did   connect with for the divorce papers. 
 
 Meanwhile, Sakshi walks into the hospital and meets Zoya. Sakshi tells her that she is Pooja's mother and Zoya is shocked to know about her identity. Sakshi apologizes to her and asks her to forgive her for Pooja's mistake. Zoya tells her that she does not blame Pooja for whatever is happening and Aditya hears their conversation. He soon comes to know the truth of the party and soon realizes his mistake. He then feels guilty for behaving rudely with Zoya.
 
 
