BAREILLY: In January 16-year-old Tanvi Yadav and her brother  , 15, were busy preparing for their exams when news that their father had suffered a brain hemorrhage jolted the family. Their father,  , is a constable in the   and posted in West Bengal’s   district. On hearing the news, their mother   rushed to be by the side of her husband in Bengal.
 
  The teenaged siblings were left home alone. It was then that Tanvi decided not to write her Class XI exam but focus on her brother’s efforts to crack his board exam. Her efforts paid off. Tarush scored 78% marks in the ICSE exams whose results were declared on Monday. He said, “As I gave my Board exams for the first time, I was nervous and my fears were aggravated due to the absence of my parents from home at such a crucial time. My sister was a big support to me and without her help, I would not have scored this much.’’
  
  Father Basil Runda, vice-principal, Hartmann College, said, “It is a story of love and sacrifice. When Tanvi told us that she has decided to skip her exams to help her brother, she promised us that she will work harder in Class XII in the coming academic year.’’ Her school has promoted her to Class XII.
  
  Narrating her ordeal, Tanvi said, “We two were alone at home. We do not even have any relative here as we moved to Bareilly in 2015 following our father’s posting here. However, after he was transferred to Cooch Behar, we remained in Bareilly due to our studies.
  
  “A day after we heard that our father had been taken ill, our mother left for West Bengal. Our father was taken ill at a time when schools and coaching centres are closed and students study at home. We did not touch our textbooks for a fortnight as we were worried about his health. We did not have any domestic help as my mother was worried about our safety. I had to do all household work on my own. As boys are careless and study only on the insistence mothers, I decided not to appear for my final exams to help my brother secure good marks in Class X, which is important for a bright future,’’ said Tanvi.
  
  Their mother returned Bareilly in March long after their exams had concluded. But Tanvi has no regrets and is determined to work hard in Class XII.
