THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: ‘Haritha Keralam Susthira Keralam’ (Green Kerala, Sustainable Kerala), the project announced by finance minister T M   along the lines of the literacy campaign ‘Sakshara Keralam, Sundara Keralam’, would focus on the promotion of decentralized garbage processing and source segregation in all panchayats.

 While presenting the state budget on Friday,   said that the  , which started in 2017, would ensure largescale participation of people in partnership with local government institutions.
 
 Nodal ‘prerak’ at the block-level and a major section of ‘preraks’ at locallevel would be deployed for awareness and organizing activities related to ‘Haritha Keralam’. A huge mass education campaign for   is being planned in 2018-19. Haritha Keralam social knowledge dissemination centre, Haritha Keralam helpdesk and Haritha learning centre would be formulated under the responsibility of preraks. This would link several workers of communitybased organizations like Kudumbashree to this campaign, the minister said.
  
  
 An amount of Rs10 crore has been earmarked for giving Haritha Gramam, Haritha Nagaram and Haritha Block awards to those local self-government institutions (LSGI) that have implemented the best model and comprehensive projects for achieving the objectives of the Mission. Haritha Kerala Mission and Science & Technology Council will lead the new entrepreneurial initiatives to create green employment for encouraging green technologies.
 
 
 The minister stressed the need for wetland-based planning for agricultural prosperity. An amount of Rs 191 crore has been earmarked for minor irrigation department. Apart from this, the government has decided that at least 40% of employment guarantee scheme should be for soil water conservation activities. This is expected to cost Rs 400 crore. He said that the plan allocation of LSGIs could also be used for the purpose. The outlay for wetland scheme during 2018-19 would come to nearly Rs 1,000 crore.
 
 Isaac bemoaned the lack of sufficient coordination, continuity and scientific approach as the reason for the present drought and soil erosion. He added that if the activities of various departments and agencies were coordinated through Haritha Keralam, the issues could be resolved.
 
 
 The minister praised various watershed projects and revival of water body schemes under Haritha Keralam Mission. The successful rejuvenation of some rivers has generated a new enthusiasm in the state, he said.
 
 
