NEW DELHI: Finishing tied 57th at the end of the opening day at the Hero   in Gurgaon has left India's latest golfing sensation   a relieved man, for it could have been far worse after a first round of 73. 

 
 
 
 
 Writing for TOI,   - whose stunning rise up the golf rankings saw him rise from 462nd place to 66th in three months following two European Tour Wins and a tied ninth place finish at the World Golf Championships in Mexico last week - expressed great satisfaction at averting a dismal day at the Indian Open. 
 
 "The first round of the Hero Indian Open was nothing short of a Great Escape for me. I did not have the best of starts and was five-over par at the turn, but turned things around in my back nine to end the day on one-over par," wrote the 21-year-old, who this week got an invitation to next month's Augusta Masters. "To be honest, despite the long travel from Mexico and arriving only on Tuesday evening, I wasn't feeling tired in the morning. But as the day progressed, I felt weary, and that's another reason why I am so proud of the way I bounced back. 
 
 "My front nine, which was the back nine of the golf course, was a story of minor errors. However, on a course where danger lurks at most corners, these get magnified. Without doing much wrong, I had slipped to the back of the pack."
 
 
 
 
 Shubhankar, who will become only the fourth Indian golfer to play at the US Masters after  ,   and  , revealed how he fell back on memories of days gone by on the green when his day began poorly. 
 
 "The front nine of the golf course was opened much before the back, and I have played it many a times. In our friendly matches, we used to wager a small bet and whoever shot five-under for the nine holes, would win. I just thought I was back in those days. That made me relax and my only regret was that I finished four-under par, not five," he wrote. 
 
 Reflecting on his recent success, Shubhankar admitted to being elated and disappointed. "The last few days have been a whirlwind - from leading the WGC-Mexico Championship after three days, to the disappointment of the final round and then the subsequent invitation from the Masters," he wrote. "I have already spoken a lot about how getting to   is a dream-come-true for me. The spot is secured, but I definitely want to walk through Magnolia Lane as a world top-50 player and justify the faith that the Masters Committee has shown in me. That's my short-term goal right now. And it all begins this week with, hopefully, contending for the title at the Hero Indian Open on Sunday."
 
 The best Indian golfer of the day was Ajeetesh Sandhu, who was four-under after 17 holes when play was stopped.
 
