HYDERABAD: The chief minister   Rao-led TRS government is racing against time to spend the ₹14,375 crore budget it allocated for the development of Dalits in the current fiscal. These ₹14,375 crores are in proportionate to the Scheduled Castes population in   which constitutes 16.32% of the state as per the 2011census.

 However, various government departments put together have been able to spend only ₹6,689 crore up to January end in 2017-18 financial year which is less than 50% of the total allocated budget. With less than 50 days remaining for the current fiscal to end, SC development minister G Jagadish Reddy has issued an ultimatum to the officials of all the departments concerned to not only ensure transparency but also utilise the total allocated budget for the welfare of the Dalits.
 
 
  
  
 
 Mincing no words, the minister has told the officials that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s target is to ensure that more money is spent on welfare of the   than the budget allocated for their development. To ensure greater transparency, the officials have been asked to list out the welfare schemes and the number of beneficiaries and distribute it in the form of pen drives to the elected representatives so that everyone knows where the budget has been spent.
 
 However, the minister exuded confidence that there were 197 welfare schemes and another 219 sub-schemes for the welfare of the SCs and budget was allocated against each scheme and beneficiaries, as a result, the government would be able to ensure that more budget is spent on SCs than what has been allocated. Telangana Joint Action Committee ( ) official spokesperson   lashed out at the TRS government for failing to spend even 50 per cent of the budget allocated for the SCs welfare. The failure of the government to spend even 50 per cent of the total allocated budget for SCs exposes the ruling TRS that it is least bothered about the welfare of Dalits.
 
 “How will the officials manage to spend effectively ₹7686 crore in just 48 days when they were able to spend just ₹6689 crore in almost 11months. The TJAC has been saying that the TRS government has failed to spend the total SC budget during the last three fiscals also,” Venkat Reddy alleged.
 
