SURAT:   (RTO) authorities are literally turning a blind eye to the corrupt practices being adopted by auto and car dealers for the fitment of High Security Registration Plates (HSRP) on vehicles in the Diamond City.

 The auto and car dealers, who are deemed RTO for fitting HSRP, are charging Rs 500 for a two-wheeler and Rs 1,000 for a car. However, the   fixed by transport department for   is Rs 89 (light motor vehicle) and Rs 150 for a heavy motor vehicle. 
 
 The state government has made it mandatory for all vehicles in the state to get their number plates changed with HSRPs before February 15 or else the department will impose fine of Rs 500 on vehicle owners. 
 
 Sources said the dealers are raking in moolah as vehicle owners are rushing to get their HSRPs fitted on their vehicles. Apart from fitting HSRPs, the dealers are charging extra bucks for getting the plates frames. 
 
 A retired professor Rangnath Iyer, who went to get the HSRP fitted on his old moped, was shocked when the agent at the dealership asked him to cough up Rs500. Iyer argued with the dealer and showed him the official rate, but he refused to budge. “I went to the RTO office, but they are not willing to listen to me. They are asking me to give the complaint in writing. This is not the way to deal with the situation. The department is not caring for people who are being looted by auto dealers,” Iyer said. 
 
 At present, the RTO is accepting online appointments for HSRP fitment limiting to just 150 vehicles in a day. Earlier, the online appointment was suspended for about a month due to some technical snag in the online server. However, vehicle owners are making a beeline outside auto and car dealers to get their HSRPs fitted. 
 
 An RTO inspector said, “We have published the rate card for HSRPs in all the newspapers for dealers as well as the RTO. The dealers charging extra bucks will have to face legal action and their dealership can be cancelled. Vehicle owners can directly approach us in such a situation.”
 
 Despite repeated attempts in-charge regional transport officer   did not pick up the phone.
 
 
