CHENNAI: Think of butterflies and the mind paints a kaleidoscope of colours fluttering in a garden. But butterflies have more to them than just being a visual delight. They play the role of pollinators, balance the food chain and their behaviour, population and migration patterns help ecologists gauge the impact of environmental issues like climate change, deforestation and low rainfall.

 
 Keeping these aspects in mind, the state forest department has come out with a coffee table book titled ‘Butterflies of Tamil Nadu’. The book was released on Tuesday, coinciding with the International Day for Biological Diversity. The book documents 312 species of butterflies of the 323 species found in  . “The last book on butterflies was published in 2005 by Dr Guathilagaraj who documented only 90 species in south India,” says N Satheesh, conservator of forests.
 
  
  
 Satheesh says his team began research for the book two years ago. P Mohanprasath, a butterfly enthusiast and a photographer, has co-authored the book with Satheesh. As part of their research for the book, the team visited the forests in Coimbatore and Aanamalai Tiger Reserve in  , a part of the Western Ghats as well as Amrithi forests in   and   in the Eastern Ghats besides visiting Srivilliputhur. “We identified around 32 butterfly hotspots where one can see at least 75 species,” Satheesh says.
 
 Around 32 species such as southern birdwing, malabar rose, Tamil catseye, Nilgiri clouded yellow, Nilgiri grass yellow and Malabar banded peacock are endemic to the Western Ghats. Rare species include orange owlet, yellow breasted flat, manytailed oakblue and Shiva sunbeam. 
 
 “Butterflies are grouped into five families — Papilionidae, Pieridae, Numphalidae, Lycaenidae and Hesperidae. Many species use camouflage, mimicking and warning signals to escape predators. Species such as monarch and painted lady can travel long distances during their migratory period,” Satheesh says. “The wings of butterflies are made up of tiny scales which help them fly and are responsible for their colours,” he adds. 
 
 The country’s diverse terrain, vegetation, climate and distinct seasons attract butterflies in large numbers. Satheesh, however, rues that environmental threats like pollution and pesticides are triggering a decline in the butterfly population. To fight it, the state has created a Tropical Butterfly Conservatory at Trichy, spread over 25 acres, and a butterfly park at Vandalur zoo. Satheesh says butterfly conservation will help in improving the environment in a big way. The book contains tips in this regard.
 
 Sensitising young children on butterfly conservation, watching butterflies regularly, starting butterfly gardens at home, school, workplace; educating farmers to use native seeds and shun pesticides; and participating in butterfly walks and surveys are a few ways through which common people can contribute their mite.
 
 Email your feedback to southpole.toi@timesgroup.com
 
 
