
 
 
 
 
 
 A brilliant diving catch from RCB captain Virat Kohli ends Hardik Pandya's valiant knock on 50. Score 143/7
 
 
 
 for Hardik Pandya. Reaches the milestone with a single. The only half-century of the contest
 
 
 Krunal Pandya goes for the scoop but gets a leading edge to be caught at backward point. He scored 23 off 19. Score 140/6
 
 
 Excellent over from Tim Southee who receives brilliant support from his fielders. Just five runs in the over. Score 138/5
 
 
 A good over ruined as Hardik Pandya, despite not middling the shot, manages to score a boundary. 10 run from Siraj's third over. Score 133/5
 
 
 
 
 Pandya brothers keep the contest alive. An expensive over from Colin de Grandhomme. 17 runs in it including a six and two fours. Score 123/5
 
 
 Another good over from Umesh comes to an end and with it, he finishes his spell. Six runs from his final over of the night. His figures 4-0-29-2. Score 106/5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Colin de Grandhomme leaks eight runs - five of them via wides. Score 100/5
 
 
 Yuzvendra Chahal finishes his quota conceding a boundary to Krunal Pandya. He has been wicketless tonight but nevertheless has been brilliant. His figures 4-0-23-0. Score 92/5
 
 
 
 JP Duminy sets off for a single after cutting one to point. He then comes back for a second but Umesh Yadav spears in a brilliant throw and Quinton de Kock is equally good and collecting and taking off the bail in a jiff. Third umpire pressed into service. And Duminy has to walk back after scoring 23. Score 84/5
 
 
 
 
 
 A tight over from Yuzvendra Chahal. Three singles in it. Score 80/4
 
 
 Seems like it's Hardik Pandya's night. He is taking the attack to the RCB bowlers. He has crashed a boundary and a six in Sundar's first over. Score 77/4
 
 
 
 
 Yuzvendra Chahal continues. Hardik Pandya smashes one straight past the bowler for his first boundary. 7 runs from the over. Score 62/4
 
 
 Mohammed Siraj returns and gets Kieron Pollard to nick one and has him out caught behind on 13. Another big blow to MI. Score 47/4
 
 
 Interesting over from Yuzvendra Chahal. He's getting prodigious turn and managed to induce an edge from Kieron Pollard which Quinton de Kock failed to gobble. A ball turned enough to skip everyone and run down the fence for five wides. 7 runs from the over. Score 47/3
 
 
 
 
 Kieron Pollard began it with a four over mid-off. Umesh did well for the next five deliveries to limit MI but for an overthrow that resulted four runs. End of Powerplay. Score 40/3
 
 
 Another pacer in Mohammed Siraj into the attack now. Five runs from the over. Score 29/3
 
 
 End of a successful over from Umesh - three runs and two wickets in it. Score 24/3
 
 
 
 The umpire hasn't given this out and Quinton de Kock is confident. RCB review and snickometer agrees. Two in two for Umesh! RCB 21/3
 
 
 
 Rapped on the pads and umpire raises his finger. Suryakumar Yadav is reviewing the call but replay cannot save him. He walks back after scoring 9 off 9. Score 21/2
 
 
 A good over from Tim Southee. Just five runs from it. Score 21/1
 
 
 Not an ideal start from Umesh Yadav - leaks two fours in his first over of the innings - one each to JP Duminy and Suryakumar Yadav. 11 runs from it. Score 16/1 
 
 Umesh Yadav to share the new ball with Southee
 
 
 What a delivery from Tim Southee to clean up Ishan Kishan for a first-ball duck. Sneaks the delivery in to get it through the gap between bat and pad. MI 5/1
 
 
 
 
 Three sixes in the over - all from the bat of Colin de Grandhomme who finishes unbeaten on 23 off 10. 
 
 
 What a catch from Ben Cutting. Tim Southee slogs it high in the air and the ball disappears before the gravity does the trick. Cutting stays calm under pressure and takes a a good catch at long-on. He scored 1. Score 143/7
 
 
 
 What an over this is turning out for Hardik Pandya and MI. He has picked up his third wicket in the over as Washington Sundar tries for the maximum but cannot clear the midwiket fielder to be caught for 1. Score 141/6
 
 
 Two in two for Hardik Pandya and this time it's Virat Kohli holes out to Kieron Pollard at long-on on 32. Score 139/5
 
 
 Mandeep Singh takes the aerial route but doesn't get the distance to be caught at deep midwicket on 14. Pandya gets his first wicket. RCB 139/4
 
 
 Jasprit Bumrah returns and Mandeep Singh picks up his slower delivery and sends it sailing into the stands for a big six. 10 runs from the over. Score 139/3
 
 
 
 
 A good over from Hardik Pandya as he outsmarts Virat Kohli with clever change of pace. However, he errs in length to bowl one short with Mandeep Singh pulling him for a four. Six runs from it. Score 129/3
 
 
 
 
 Brendon McCullum hits one to mid-off and sets off for a quick singles. Hardik Pandya picks up the ball and spears a direct hit to catch the Kiwi short. He goes back after scoring 37. Score 121/3
 
 
 A good over from Jasprit Bumrah. He could've gotten a wicket had he appealed more vociferously and reviewed a caught behind decision against Virat Kohli. There was a half-hearted appeal from both the bowler and the wicketkeeper with Kohli edging one. Seven runs from the over. Score 119/2
 
 
 Virat Kohli just gets better and better as the innings progresses. A delicious six from his bat as he skips forward and deposits one from Krunal Pandya over deep midwicket boundary. Eight runs from the over. Score 112/2
 
 
 Expensive over from Markande. RCB have pushed the scoring rate. Three fours in the over - one to Kohli and two to McCullum. 13 from the over. Score 104/2
 
 
 The brothers are bowling in tandem. Krunal, the spinner, gets his for a boundary first-ball by Virat Kohli. 9 runs from the over. Score 91/2
 
 
 A big over for RCB! 
 Brendon McCullum comes into his own. A beamer from Hardik Pandya and a thick edge takes the ball over the boundary for a six. Free-hit follows and McCullum scoops that up over the wicketkeeper's head for a second straight six. He follows that up with a four to long-off. Score 82/2
 
 
 OUT! Manan Vohra sweeps but gets hit on the pad, MI appeal and the umpire raises the finger. Vohra reviews and the decision stands. He walks back after scoring 45 off 31. Score 61/2 
 
 First strategic time-out of the night
 
 
 The ball is turning and bouncing. This is not the typical Bengaluru track we have become used to. Doesn't look like it will be a high-scoring affair. Just three runs from Krunal Pandya's second over. Score 53/1
 
 
 Brendon McCullum gets off the mark with a reverse-hit to third man region for four. Off the final delivery, Vohra takes a single to take the score to 50/1
 
 Mayank Markande into the attack now
 
 
 Krunal Pandya to bowl the the final over of Powerplay. Brendon McCullum has walked in at no. 3. Just five runs from the over. Score 43/1
 
 
 
 That took everyone by surprise. Quinton de Kock hit one to short midwicket where Rohit took a low catch. The umpire's soft signal was out before they went upstairs. And the third umpire also concurs. He walks back after scoring 7 as McClenaghan strikes for the visitors. Score 38/1
 
 
 Manan Vohra has had enough as he smashes JP Duminy for two fours and a sixes off consecutive deliveries. A good over for the RCB - 
 Score 33/0
 
 
 Jasprit Bumrah has bowled a clever over. The desperation to score quickly in the Powerplay overs is clear from the RCB batsmen. But Bumrah is a step ahead of both De Kock and Vohra. Just three runs from the over. Score 11/0
 
 Jasprit Bumrah into the attack now
 
 
 A good start from McClenaghan as well. Just two singles in it. Score 8/0
 
 Left-arm pacer Mitchell McClenaghan will share the new ball duties.
 
 
 That's an engrossing first over from JP Duminy. His second ball disappeared into the stands for a big six and he followed that by rapping Manan Vohra on the pads. A loud appeal followed but MI decided against going for the review. Off the final delivery, Vohra was undone by the spin and bounce, getting a leading edge. Six from the over. Score 6/0
 
 
 
 No AB de Villiers tonight as well. He's still unwell.
 
 
 Mumbai Indians win the coin toss, opt to field vs Royal Challengers Bangalore
 
 
 Suryakumar Yadav, Rohit Sharma (captain), Hardik Pandya, Ishan Kishan (wk), Jean-Paul Duminy, Krunal Pandya, Kieron Pollard, Ben Cutting, Mitchell McClenaghan, Mayank Markande, Jasprit Bumrah
 
 
 Quinton de Kock (wk), Brendon McCullum, Virat Kohli (captain), Manan Vohra, Mandeep Singh, Colin de Grandhomme, Washington Sundar, Tim Southee, Umesh Yadav, Mohammed Siraj, Yuzvendra Chahal
 
