NEW DELHI: Indiscriminate lending in boom years and the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI’s) pressure on banks to recognise sticky assets on their books have resulted in some lenders having to classify over 40% of their loans to large industry as non-performing assets (NPAs), or bad debt, putting pressure on their profits.

 
 The   told   on Friday that at the end of December, there were at least five banks where gross NPAs from the large industry accounted for over 40% of their exposure to this segment. While private sector lender Catholic Syrian Bank was at the top of the heap, with close to 50% of its advances to large companies turning into bad debt, there were six other banks with gross NPAs of over 30% of their loans to large industry.
 
 At least a dozen large companies — ranging from steel, auto parts and real estate — are facing bankruptcy action as they have repeatedly failed to clear their dues. Another 40, including some consumer goods players, have been dragged to the insolvency court by lenders. A large number of power companies are staring at an uncertain fate and banks are expected to act against them soon.
 
 
  
 
 The action followed a clean-up exercise jointly initiated by the   and the government, starting with recognition of NPAs and a follow-up through the enactment of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code, or IBC.
 
 The RBI’s asset quality review in 2015 pushed up the level of gross NPAs to large industry from a little under Rs 1.2 lakh crore at the end of March 2015 to Rs 5.3 lakh crore at the end of last December — a jump of four-and-a-half times in 33 months.
 
 The data indicates that large industry accounts for close to two-thirds of the bad debt, although their share of advances is less than 30%.
 
 While a large part of the bad debt was earlier attributed to stalled projects or infrastructure and core sector projects that never took off, the recent RBI action indicates that several companies, where the promoters were unwilling to repay their debt and sought repeated restructuring, have added to the pressure on banks.
 
 The numbers also show that the problem is large in public sector banks, but not limited to just them. For instance, at least two foreign banks —   and   — are among the top 10 with gross NPAs of over 30% in the large industry category.
 
 
