KOCHI: Managing director of the Kozhikode-based   and Islamic preacher  , who had a look-out-circular (LOC) against him for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, was taken into custody from Hyderabad by the Kochi police on Sunday. He was earlier detained at the Hyderabad airport after he arrived during a flight transit.

  assistant commissioner of police   said the man had travelled from Australia to Indonesia and was heading to Doha via Hyderabad when he was caught at the transit immigration. “It seems he didn’t know there was immigration checking during flight transiting,” said Laljy. However, why he chose Hyderabad for transiting especially when there was an LOC against him is still not known.
 
 The four-member Kerala police team that took him into custody was led by Ernakulam North sub-inspector  . He was brought to Kochi on Sunday night and is expected to be produced in court on Monday. He is likely to undergo a preliminary round of interrogation in the meantime.
 
 Akbar was booked by the Kochi city police for teaching books with non-secular content at the Peace International School in Ernakulam. The case was registered on October 7, 2016 under Sections 153 A 1A, 1B (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race…and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC.
 
 Officials said Akbar will be questioned to find out whether the introduction of the books was deliberate. The foundation-run schools had taught books published by another publisher till two years ago, said officials.
 
 The foundation runs 10 schools in Kerala and several others outside the state, including the Middle East. The controversial textbooks were supplied by Mumbai-based Burooj Realization. Three persons associated with the publisher ––its secretary, content editor and designer ––were arrested earlier by the probe team.
 
 Law enforcement agencies had started focusing on the foundation after it was found that some of the missing persons, who had reportedly joined the Islamic State, were associated with its schools.
 
