PUNE: The Pune airport authorities are in the process of installing sanitary napkin vending machines in women’s washrooms. The facility was introduced at Rajkot airport in   recently.

 “Yes, we are providing the facility at the airport, which is undergoing renovation,” an official at the Pune airport claimed. According to sources, the airport, which has a daily footfall of 11,000 fliers, has been able to renovate most toilets and washrooms.
 
 “Sanitary napkin dispensing machines is one of the facilities being provided keeping in mind cleanliness and hygiene factors. We think it will be appreciated as a good initiative,” another official pointed out.
 
 Under ‘Project Disha’ of the   ( ), the scheme which aims to offer better passenger-related services at the airport, two new and modern toilets have been constructed near the arrival area.
 
  Altogether there are four washrooms in the airport on ground and first floor with a provision for increasing their number in future.
 
 “We have received a number of complaints from passengers regarding dirty washrooms. But now the situation has improved. Washrooms are being provided with wash basins, water facility, liquid soaps and paper napkins. The contractor, responsible for cleanliness, has been instructed to ensure that toilets remain clean,” another official said. Passengers hailed the decision to install napkin vending machines. “Though I have not travelled from Pune airport during the last four months, I think it is a very good initiative and will help women fliers,” said a passenger who did not wish to be named.
 
 
 
 With some fliers posting pictures of paper cups lying inside terminal building on social media sites, officials blamed passengers for not using dustbins to throw waste. “We are taking all measures to ensure that the airport is clean. However, the problem is some passengers do not make any effort to throw waste in dustbins,” an official said. 
 
 The authorities have decided to introduce a penalty of Rs 2,000 on travellers for littering inside the terminal.
 
 
