Chennai: Two men from the city were killed and four others injured in separate road accidents involving government buses on Sunday when the strike called by   workers’ unions entered its fourth day.

 While one casualty was reported near Santhome Church in Chennai, the other   happened at Vriddhachalam in   district where the victim’s family had gone on a holiday. Police said David Seyon Kumar, 37, a resident of Kilpauk, had travelled to Cuddalore with his family to attend a private function. He was travelling with his brother-in-law Samuvel, 35, and his seven-year-old daughter Sharon on a two-wheeler and when their vehicle reached the Vriddhachalam bus stand a government town bus hit him from behind.
 
 “Losing control of the bus, the driver ran over David’ s motorcycle and hit another government bus in front,” said police. 
 
 “If not for the other bus, the driver would have killed 10 others standing in an eatery at the entrance of the bus stand,” police sources added.
 
 The driver, J Ezhumalai, 35, from Erumanur of the same district usually drives tractors on agricultural fields and was unable to control the ill-maintained bus at the sharp curve ahead of the entrance of the bus stand,” said a transport department official. Ezhumalai has been remanded and an FIR lodged, said police.
 
 Police said all three accident victims were rushed to the local government hospital where David was declared brought dead. Others were referred to Villupuram Government Hospital and later to Royapettah Government Hospital in Chennai. Samuvel sustained a head injury but was recovering, said hospital sources.
 
 Soon after the accident, commuters and other union members protested against deployment of inexperienced drivers to operate government buses. Regional transport officer Santhoshini Chandra arrived at the spot as protestors had started to block buses operated by  . A dozen protestors were detained too.
 
 In the accident near Santhome, an MTC bus knocked down an 18-year-old biker around 3 pm. The victim, identified as Ajith Kumar R from Dummil Kuppam, was crossing the road when the accident happened, said a traffic investigation officer. 
 
 Police said the bus was plying between Broadway bus terminus and Kannagi Nagar and its driver sped away with the vehicle after hitting the biker. Police said there were no witnesses but have procured CCTV footage from the surroundings to identify the vehicle and the driver. The Mylapore traffic investigation police have filed a hit-and-run case and has launched a hunt for the driver of the bus. Kumar’s body has been sent to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital for autopsy.
 
 Besides these two fatal accidents, four other accidents were reported in other parts of the state including Thanjavur and Villupuram.
 
 
