Trichy: Actor Rajinikanth’s fans in the city launched Rajini Makkal Magalir Mandram, women’s wing of Rajini Makkal Madram, rechristened name of Rajinikanth fans’ association at Tharanallur on Sunday evening. The newly launched body has been touted as a first of its kind in the state. Fans said that as of now about 67 women in and around Gandhi Market locality have joined the association and an office has been opened for the women’s wing in Tharanallur for keeping the enrollment open.

 Weeks after announcing his decision to launch a political party and to contest in all the assembly segments in the election scheduled for 2021, Rajinikanth converted his fan club associations across the state into people’s forum. As a part of his political foray, the actor’s fan floated a new wing exclusively for women in Tharanallur locality covering the Gandhi Market and Palakkarai, largely populated by middle-class and low-income-group families.
 
 “As many as 67 women have expressed interest to join the women’s wing Rajini Makkal Magalir Mandram in Trichy. We expect that more women will join in coming days. Since women in families play a crucial role in deciding whom should a family vote for during elections, we have planned to rope in more members in the women’s wing,” said Royal Raju, president of Trichy District Rajini Thalam (fans welfare association). The members who joined the actor’s forum include housewives, Self Help Group (SHG) members and women employed in cottage industries.
 
 “My husband was a die-hard Rajinikanth fan till his demise about five years back. We believe Rajinikanth will bring welfare schemes for the upliftment of women, so we have joined the women’s wing of Rajini people’s forum to support his political foray,” said M Jayanthi, a 40-year-old woman with Palakkarai-based SHG. Members after opening an office facility for the women’s wing in Trichy said that they have planned to invite their friends and colleagues at workplace to be a part of Rajinikanth’s forum to support the actor’s foray into Tamil Nadu politics.
 
 
