CHENNAI:The meeting of the chief secretaries of the four Cauvery basin states, convened by the Union ministry of water resources in New Delhi on Friday, to discuss modalities of implementing the February 16 SC verdict on sharing water turned out to be a disappointment for Tamil Nadu.

 As the participants argued about the meaning of the word ‘scheme’ mentioned in the SC order, formation of the Cauvery Management Board (CMB) within six weeks, as expected by TN, may turn out to be a pipe dream. Officials from  , Tamil Nadu, Kerala and the Union territory of Puducherry took part in the meeting.
 
 The SC had set six-weeks deadline to frame a “scheme” to implement the order.
 
 Though TN argued that by the word “scheme”, the SC meant complying with the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal’s award to set up the CMB, the Centre seems to be going with Karnataka’s argument that the SC order talks only about “a scheme” and not the river management board.
 
 “It is a matter of interpretation. The tribunal has recommended (a board). The SC doesn’t use the word Cauvery Management Board. It says a scheme,” said Union water resources secretary U P Singh. He said the participants were of the opinion that for better implementation of the tribunal’s award, the chairman of the entity should be an official above the rank of chief engineer.
 
 Tamil Nadu chief secretary   argued that as per the SC order, the Centre was duty bound to set up the CMB and the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee (which will be set up by the CMB), as prescribed by the Tribunal, within six weeks. Already three weeks had lapsed after the SC order, she said. But Tamil Nadu gave in finally. Karnataka CS Ratna Prabha said the meeting unanimously decided to pursue formulation of a “scheme” to comply with the SC order. In short, TN’s demand for immediate CMB did not find any takers. The benefit of setting up the CMB is that the management of the Cauvery reservoirs will be vested with the CMB, a neutral body, and not with Karnataka government.
 
 Singh, during the meeting, pointed out that apart from the tribunal’s award, the parties concerned could also consider a few other models like the Bhakra-Beas Management Board and   for better management of the Cauvery water. This again is dilution of the SC order, going by TN’s argument.
 
 A senior TN official said the state could react to the Centre’s proposal only after seeing the fine print. “We need to see whether the Centre deviates from the SC verdict. We need to also look at the roles and responsibilities of the regulatory mechanism. Also as to whether the Centre would pass ex parte order if any state does not nominate its representative to the regulatory mechanism,” said the official.
 
 Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu MPs stalled the proceedings for the fifth day in both the Houses of Parliament demanding immediate formation of the CMB. Tamil Nadu chief minister   is likely to have a high-level meeting with ministers and officials on Saturday to discuss the next course of action as the opposition has demanded a special session of the assembly to discuss the Cauvery issue.
 
