VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA), which has been gasping for funds to develop the capital city of  , has reasons to cheer. 

 Khoo Teng Chye, the executive director of   (CLC), which comes under the ministry of national development, Singapore, feels that investment and cash flow for the green field capital should not be a major concern, as funds will flow if investors are convinced about the futuristic plans and development strategy of the city. 
 
 In an exclusive   with TOI on Wednesday, Khoo, who played a key advisory role in preparing the master plan of Amaravati by Singapore-based companies, said the city-state also faced similar funds crunch when they were building it in the 70s but overcame it by good planning and strategy.
 
 He recalled an instance when Singapore wanted to build a container-based port and the  , which was to fund the project, raised objections saying such an arrangement would not be feasible. But things moved ahead soon due to good framework of planning.
 
  “There is availability of capital in the world and there is huge requirement too. In order to make this capital to be available for required areas like green field cities, there should be a good development strategy which, combined with good practices of governance, can give the desired result,” he said. However, it also comes with a rider, Khoo warned, as the leadership should be able to convince the investors about the ‘false’ risk perception in such projects.
 
 He advised the   government to also look beyond the Singapore model, and only take the relevant aspects as inspiration. 
 
 “I am sure they are doing that. As partners, we have provided the Singapore framework for good governance to the state and good governance is very crucial for Amaravati, with a single authority as the core working closely with line departments,” Khoo opined, and added that the CRDA has been playing its role well, with the relevant act in place.
 
 Reacting to the current debate and criticism in AP that Amaravati should not have been planned as a big capital but as a simple administrative capital, Khoo said Canberra (Australia) and   (Brazil), because they were simple administrative capitals, did not get much impetus. “By just creating one single central business district (CBD), no investment will come to such capitals,” he observed. “Amaravati has separate multi-purpose zones and the planning has been done in such a way that the capital will appeal to all.”
 
 Khoo said he has strongly advised the state government to preserve the unique Buddhist heritage of the area as that will help attract tourists, particularly followers of Buddhism, from across the world. He said unlike some Chinese cities and a few other new cities which have nothing but just roads and buildings and the dependency on private participation is more, in Amaravati the planning has been done in such a way that more of public transportation will be required.
 
 The work on the start-up area of the seed capital area (SCA) where Singapore companies have joined hands with Amaravati Development Corporation (ADC), will start soon in the zero phase initially. In this phase, models will be presented before the investors before the big structures come up. The work on SCA got delayed due to court cases, but things are going to move fast, he added.
 
 
