By: 
 

 The ministry of human resource development, Government of India, has announced graded autonomy to 62 institutions that includes central, state and private universities with an idea to allow them to start new courses, offer competitive salaries and set up off-campus centres without approvals.
 
 The initiative is great and intended for the universities to become successful and global players. To achieve the purpose, the institutions must be in position to take their own decisions. The institutions require autonomy at four levels —organisational, academic, financial and that in recruitment of faculty or staff.
 
 Firstly, the university should be able to decide its governance structure, appointment qualifications and procedures for appointment of executive heads. At present, the universities/institutions have governance structures that are regulated by the acts, which are usually not updated and are not in pace with changing times.
 
 In terms of financial autonomy, the institute must be able to decide freely on its internal financial procedures and matters, so as to enable
 
 the institutions to set and realise their strategic goals.
 
 The institution must also be allowed to decide on the qualifications, experience recruitment procedures and pay packages for its faculty and staff. We are fully regulated by   and are not able to attract foreign faculty, as the university cannot deviate from the guidelines for recruitment and provide salary packages that would be expected, whereas private institutions have the freedom in the process of recruitment and packages they can offer.
 
 Finally, the institutions must be free to decide on the student intake, admission procedures and course content. In addition, freedom must be there to add new courses, based on emerging needs. It is pertinent to mention here that   was in trouble to have started a 4-year bachelor’s programme as it deviated from the traditional system.
 
 It has been stated that these institutions would remain in the purview of UGC. Hence, it appears that till the complete guidelines on greater autonomy to these institutions is spelled, it would be difficult to envisage how far this would help these institutions, which at present, are somewhat autonomous.
 
 
 
 
