MUMBAI: The   Grounds in Bandra-Kurla Complex, one of the country’s favourite and the city’s most happening showground, is now out of bounds for at least six years. The reason: MMRDA needs it for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train terminus and Metro II-B.

 
 The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has cancelled 36 events that were scheduled at the venue since April 1. The biggest one to be hit was the   concert on Saturday evening. It was forced to shift to the   at  , a much smaller venue. Although MMRDA commissioner UPS Madan said that they “have given adequate notice to the persons concerned that some events will have to be cancelled as the land is required for the bullet train as well as for Metro casting yards”, organiser of the gig alleged harassment at the eleventh hour by authorities who went incommunicado.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The 50-acre ground has only 30 acres for hosting events. And with 20 acres being taken away for the infrastructure projects, organisers will have to make do on a 10-odd acre space, which means they can’t expect to host 1.5 lakh people, like they did here till now.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 For the next six years, the MMRDA grounds in BKC will not be able to host any major event that draws over a lakh people. For, the space available in the ground for such events has been reduced to a third because of the infrastructure projects. Though the city has a larger ground at NSE Nesco Complex in Goregaon, that’s not used for concerts and such events.
 
 The MMRDA grounds has hosted some of the biggest international acts in the country-–Coldplay, Beyonce, Roger Waters, Bryan Adams, Scorpions, Mark Knopfler, Shakira, Guns N' Roses, INXS, Iron Maiden, Michael Learns to Rock and Pitbull.
 
 Cyrus Gorimar, director of Opium Events, organiser of the One Republic gig, told TOI: “We had applied for permissions in the third week of February and we received a stamped acknowledgement almost immediately. It was during the last week of March that we heard rumours about shows getting cancelled at MMRDA. It was only when our agents approached the authorities that they verbally communicated that our event would have to be shifted on account of the bullet train project.”
 
 When requests to the MMRDA commissioner for a written or formal notification fell on deaf ears, Gorimar was forced to send a legal notice threatening to file a writ petition three weeks ago. “That was the first time they responded and were willing to lend us permission. By then it was too late since we had already made alternative arrangements at the NSCI Dome.”
 
 Location shift for a big ticket international act in the last minute can be a mammoth task that can take a toll on the logistics, budget and repute. “Venues need a band’s approval and layouts for the stage, lights and audience need to be worked out the moment a venue is booked and the approvals are in. People are hired to work on these,” added Gorimar describing how everything from budget to audience strength went for a toss. “At NSCI we’re expecting a crowd of 6000 as opposed to 15,000 that we would have seen at MMRDA,” Gorimar said.
 
 Additional Metropolitan Commissioner Praveen Darade said, “We still have the remaining plot for events. However, big events like political rallies or large concerts may not be possible to hold.”
 
 Work on the underground bullet train Bandra-Kurla Complex terminus is scheduled to begin from December after the state government in February handed over nearly five hectares of land to the National High Speed Rail Corporation for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high speed rail corridor.
 
 The foundation of the BKC bullet train terminus would be built keeping in mind that a 10-storey building International Finance Service Centre would come up just above it.
 
  
  
 
