It is not often that you hear about two octogenarians playing the lead in a Tamil film. But debutant director   roped in veteran   and  , the grandmother of  , to play the protagonists in his film  . Chennai Times caught up with the two elderly actors for a fun interaction. Excerpts:

 
 
 
  I liked the way he thought of making an old man as the leader of a gang. When he first came to me, I was actually bedridden, so I told him I wouldn’t be able to walk for some days. But he told me that he would shoot scenes with me, where I had to lie in bed and command my underlings. This is how we shot for the first six-seven days. After that, I was able to walk with a crutch. At the shooting spot, people would take me up to my mark and there, I’d have to perform actions like standing and walking. The character is an old gangster with a team whom he commands to do his work. The first scene he shot with me involved a policeman coming to see me. All I had to do was lift my hand and call out to my underling. But when I raise my hand, the policeman thinks I’m about to hit him, and ducks. I laugh. The very idea that my raised hand makes a policeman fear me was new to me, and took me some time to actually get it. But when I saw what he had done with the action, I began to trust him better.
 
 
 : Charuhasan sir and my family have been friends for many years. One day, I read in the paper that sir was going to act in the role of a dada. I called him up and asked, “When you are acting at this age, why can’t I act?” He always calls me his “girlfriend”, so I asked him to recommend my name to the director. Within half an hour, the director and the producer came to my house. First, they wanted to know if I could act and I could speak English, but once they spoke to me and saw that I was up to it, they were fully satisfied.
 
 
 She was the headmistress of a school, and her husband was the headmaster of another school. I had acted alongside their daughter, Menaka, in a film, and they used to accompany her to the shooting spot. That is where we met and became good friends, and we stayed in touch. So, it felt good that the two of us were acting together. In fact, I spoke to her family members to get their consent to have her act in this film.
 
 
 
 
  First day, konjam nervous-a irundadhu, but Charuhasan sir-a paatha udane konjam dhairiyam vandhudichu. In my first shot, he’d call out to me, and I’d have to look back at him and then keep walking. In the end, I had to smile at him. I did not have any dialogue, and the director said that I had performed the shot well. That gave me confidence. I left it to the director to judge whether my acting was good or bad. He was very much satisfied. So, I realised that I could act, and now, I’m playing the grandma of Karthi in Kadaikutty Singam. During the shoot, Charuhasan sir would also help me out. “The director is asking you to look at me, but why are you looking at him,” he would ask whenever I did such a mistake. I would jokingly retort, “What if I looked at you for long and actually fell in love with you?”, and we would have a good laugh.
 
 
  I never thought I should act during the time Menaka was acting. I would involve myself only in discussions regarding her dates, fee and so on. We were a family of teachers, and Menaka was the first one in the family to take up acting. So, I took voluntary retirement and went to the locations with her. After completing a shot, she would come up to me and ask, “Ma, nalla pannena ma?” Generally, people don’t expect actors to act when they reach a certain age. Were you apprehensive if they will accept you?
 
 
  Of course there will be people who would ask, “Can’t these oldies sit at home and watch TV? Who will go to the theatre to watch them?” My daughter and I were going to the recent Malayalam artistes association function, and at the airport, actresses Seema and Ambika were along with us. Seema pulled my leg and asked, “Indha vayasula ungalukku love thevaiya? Charuhasan poi edhukku love paneenga?” I just shot back, “Naan enna oru chinna paiyyanaya kadhalichen? Enna vida oru pathu vayasu adhigamanavara thaana kadhalichen?”
 
 
 
 
  Already her daughter and granddaughter are actresses, so why should they worry?
 
 My daughter told me, “Will you do well? Don’t earn a bad name amma because that will affect me as well,” to which, I shot back, “Unaku acting en blood-la irundhu dhaan vandhudhu… Ellaam nalla panniduven po dee”.
 
  This is psychology. When I started acting, I was never tense, but the people who were nervous were my wife, and Kamal, because my failure would be their failure.
 
 Of course, his wife would have had concerns.
 
 The thing is, I am 88. At this age, there must be some work to keep me fit to live. I’ve been a successful lawyer, but nobody is giving me legal work these days. So, the only alternative is doing a film. If somebody asks me to act in their film, it makes me happier. In fact, I was in bed when the director approached me with this offer. Probably, it was this film that made me get up and walk. How many people get to even live in their 80s?
 
 When we get a chance to act in films at this age, we truly feel happy. Gayathri (Keerthy Suresh) will only say, “Paati, please earn me a good name. If you don’t, they will ask me, ‘Does your grandma need to do all this?’”. Some people compare us with our family members, which is wrong. They are younger to us. See if we have done justice to our roles, and compare us with those who might be in our age group or older to us. Even now, if I get any offer, I’d accept it. Of course, it would be paati role; heroine role-a kudukka poranga?
 
 At least, she is reasonably mobile. I’m actually thinking of not taking up any films after this one... mainly because I’m a nuisance to both my filmmakers and myself.
 
 No, you are not a nuisance at all!
 
  Then, you are in love with me.
 
 Yeah! But how did you understand that I’m in love with you? That means you are also in love with me.
 
 
 
 
 Adhukku munnadiye ippdithaan.
 
  We are good family friends. I actually call his wife “manni”, which makes him my elder brother.
 Charuhasan: When she comes to my house, my wife remarks, “Unga girlfriend vandhachu”.
 
  My daughter would tell Suhasini that she is fortunate to have such a father, to which she would quip, “Be his daughter for a week, then you will know the difficulty.” That is how friendly we all are.
 
 
 
 
 Not really, as it has become a strain for me to spend two to three hours sitting in the same place. I used to watch two films daily during my college days. When I became a lawyer, I had no time to go to films. Maybe, I would go to a Sivaji Ganesan film now and then because I liked his Parasakthi.
 
 I, too, grew up in villages near Tirunelveli. When I was studying, I’d always rush to the theatre as I wanted to be one to get the first ticket to the first show. Today, even though we have first-class AC theatres, nothing can beat the joy of sitting on a heap of sand and watching a film, while snacking on peanuts. That ticket cost just two annas then!
 
 
 
 
 My verdict is the same as the people’s — Nalla pannirukka. But I told her, whatever it is, you are my granddaughter, so, you listen to what the others are saying about your performance. Actually, you have to praise the producer who believed that a film on Savitri will succeed today.
 
 I have not seen the film, but my wife has. One thing she said was that they have shown Gemini Ganesan in a very negative light. In fact, he wasn’t like that. He never chased after any woman. Somebody would fall in love with him, and he would end up marrying her. This happened four times for him. It is not as if he had more affairs than Sivaji or MGR. Moono nalo ellathayum kalyaanam pannikittar. In fact, Savitri died in the first wife’s house. Her children were raised by the first wife.
 
 
 
 
  She was a great actress, but personally, she had no great friends. When Kamal was a child star, he was shooting with her. One day, a press photographer had come to the set, and I told her that I’d like to take a photograph with her. She subbed me, saying, “Vera vela illa. Irukkaravanga kitta ellaam photo eduthukava vandhurukka nee thambi kooda.” I was a lawyer then, a friend of Gemini Ganesan, and also a friend of the family, but she used such language at me. I just decided to stay away from her, and did not go to the set or their home for the next few days. One day, I was walking on the road, and Savitri, who was passing by, stopped her car, and called out, “Charu anna! Enga poreenga?” I told her that I was just taking a leisurely walk home. She told me to get into the car, and when I told her I had a cigarette in my hand, she asked the driver to roll down the windows. That was when cars with air-conditioning were being introduced, and she had one of the earliest air-conditioned cars. She dropped me at my home that day. I could see that she had felt guilty about not treating me well the other day and wanted to make up for it. She reacted in such a sharp manner for everything, and that resulted in difficulties for her in life.
 
 
  Actually, most people have not got what I said right. I still maintain that there is no one as brainy as Kamal Haasan, and no one can do better than him — if he succeeds in politics. But the state belongs to a group of people who think Brahmins have to be destroyed. Whatever Kamal says, to them, he is a Brahmin, and they don’t like him because of this. For 50 years, they have said ‘Down with Brahmins’, so why would they think different now? This is what I said then. Also, for most people, Rajinikanth is God incarnate. But if Kamal dissolves Makkal Needhi Maiam, Rajinikanth will become a failure in politics. In cinema, Rajini films sold better because there was a competitor — Kamal — who had to be vanquished. Even a MGR fan would acknowledge Sivaji was the better actor of the two, but we made MGR the bigger star. Similarly, even a Rajini fan will not say he is a better actor than Kamal. Still, they like Rajini better; they would say he is their Thalaivar.
 
 
