MUMBAI: One of his earliest memories was as a three-yearold when his mother and her cousin left him and his sister in their then   home to head for  , where only three hours earlier an Air India jumbo jet had gone down off the coast into the Arabian Sea.

 
 His father was then an Air India pilot, but January 1, 1978, wasn’t a day that changed   Chakraverty’s life forever: His father was safe, piloting a different flight. But Chakraverty senior lost his colleagues and friends who were on the ill-fated Boeing 747 jet, named Emperor Ashoka. It had crashed into the sea around 7.30pm, less than two minutes after take-off from Mumbai, killing all 213 people on board. As news of the crash spread, hordes of curious onlookers gathered along the Bandra seafront, hoping to catch a glimpse of the wreckage. In the years to come, the crash (believed to have been caused by equipment malfunction) featured regularly in conversations the Chakraverty family had as Debasish’s father recollected memories of his lost friends. “Capt Indu Virmani, the co-pilot, had served in the Indian Air Force with my dad and they came over from the Air Force to Air India around the same time in 1969,” said Chakraverty, who has quite a few family members working in the airline industry. So, he was in for a surprise when a few years ago he discovered that many in Mumbai hadn’t heard of the crash. “I was talking to Alisha Sadikot, a historian, about Bandra and she didn’t know about the jet that went down into the sea, off the Mumbai coast,” Chakraverty, who now lives in Bandra, said.
 
 That was how in October 2016 he began his project to get asmall pillar erected along the Bandra promenade in remembrance of the lives lost in the crash. Since then he has met or written letters to a number of politicians and social workers active in Bandra, to no avail. The world over, there are a number of air crash memorials put up at crash sites, right from those of planes lost during World War I to that of the recent 2014 Malaysian Airlines flight MH 17, which was shot down over  . The Dutch put up a memorial in the   last July for the 298 people killed. The flight had originated from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol.
 
 “If you go down to the Bandra promenade, you will come across a lot of plaques, all with names of politicians and the work they did,” says Chakraverty, ruing that January 1 marks four decades since Emperor Ashoka crashed. He says the city has missed its deadline to put up a commemorative plaque. “No one is interested.” Though only three years old then, he remembers the crash “like it was yesterday”. Unfortunately, that doesn’t seem to be true for the rest of the city.
 
