CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday upheld the decision of a local court in Dabwali, Sirsa, ordering the DAV Management Society to pay the interest amount of around 2.33 crore to the victims of the infamous Dabwali fired tragedy. As many as 442 persons had lost their lives around 22 years back in the incident.

 With this, the DAV management and owner of the marriage palace, where the tragedy took place, will have to pay around Rs 3.4 crore to the victims, as the payment of Rs 2.33 crore has to be made at 10% interest rate from April 2013.
 
 Division bench comprising Justice   and Justice   has upheld the compensation amount while dismissing the appeals filed by DAV College Trust and Management Society and others against the Dabwali Fire Tragedy Victims Association.
 
 On December 11, 2017, the sub-divisional judicial magistrate, Dabwali, had directed the DAV management committee to pay the interest amount, which was withheld, by December 22, 2017, to the victims association. The lower court had also made it clear in case of default, warrant of attachment against property of the petitioners shall be issued.
 
 The management had challenged it before the HC on the grounds that there are “some factual errors in the order in respect of the period and calculations of interest”. However, turning down their plea, the single bench headed by Justice Rakesh Kumar Jain, in its February 28, 2018, orders, had directed them to make the payment.
 
 “I am of the considered opinion that there is no error on the part of the court below as the calculation has rightly been done which does not call for any interference by this court,” Justice Jain had observed.
 
 Aggrieved from these orders, management filed an appeal before division bench, which on Friday dismissed their plea.
 
 As many as 442 persons, mostly children and women, lost their lives in the worst fire tragedy ever in the country after a fire broke out during a function in DAV Centenary Public School at Dabwali in Sirsa district of Haryana on December 23, 1995.
 
 In November 2009, the HC arrived at a sum of Rs 46 crore, along with interest, to be paid as compensation to the victims. The government was to pay 45% of the amount while the DAV managing committee and the owners of marriage palace were directed to pay the rest of the 55%. The   also upheld the verdict in 2013.
 
 Following apex court order, the management committee had deposited the amount with the civil court but had withheld the interest amount. Thereafter the victims association had approached the civil court Dabwali for release of interest amount.
 
 
