INDORE: The   on Monday reserved the order on admission of a petition seeking   Anil Madhav Dave, after hearing preliminary arguments made by petitioner, who was Dave’s college friend. 

 Division bench of Justice PK Jaiswal and Justice Virendra Singh heard the arguments which continued for over an hour. The court was informed about the incidents leading up to his death and various versions which were reported by different media organizations. 
 
 Senior advocate Anand Mohan Mathur argued on behalf of petitioner Tapan Bhattacharya and raised questions regarding the staff who were present at Dave’s residence when he was found dead. 
 
 The petitioner has also alleged that a "cartel of companies" had been exerting tremendous pressure on the minister to give approval for cultivation of genetically-modified mustard. As Union environment minister, there was a lot of pressure on Dave for approval of GM mustard, Mathur said during the arguments on Monday. 
 
 He also added that the file was lying on his table for two years and that two foreign multi-nationals formed a cartel and were pressing for GM-17 Hybrid approval.
 
 Mathur also submitted before the court the various reported versions of Dave’s death and questioned why no postmortem was performed. He stated that the staff at Dave’s residence had tried to wake him up at 7:30 am and only at 9am he was taken to the hospital which was merely 100 metre from his residence. 
 
 “Why the delay of one and a half hour before summoning medical help?” Mathur questioned. He also laid down unusual facts about Dave’s cremation stating that ‘blue spots’ were visible on Dave’s corpse and that his place of cremation was suddenly changed to a spot which was only accessible through a boat. 
 
 The petitioner’s counsel also questioned the will, which chief minister   found specifying Dave’s wish to be cremated on   at Hoshangabad, while giving no details of nominees for Dave’s property in Bhopal after his death. The petitioner also questioned the authenticity of the will. 
 
 Bhattacharya and Dave were collegemates and contested student union elections together. 
 
 
