PUNE: Officially,   does not begin until a little before midnight on Wednesday, but Darius Dorabjee is already pressed for orders from the local Parsi community.

 “Yes, we have received a lot of orders from Parsi families here who will celebrate Navroz in get-togethers. The main draws are the mutton pulao and patra-nu-machchi (steamed and sautéed fish wrapped in banana leaves),” Darius, co-owner of Dorabjee and Sons restaurant, said.
 
 While his family has gathered to observe the Parsi New Year, Darius will be at work in his restaurant, mainly because even non-Parsis customers eagerly wait for the Navroz-special spread.
 
 “Every year, we have a special menu at our restaurant for Navroz, besides the orders from the families. Many non-Parsis too come to our restaurant and indulge in the special menu. Thus, I have to be at work, even though I would very much like to be with my family,” Darius laughed.
 
 A part of Tuesday and most of Wednesday marks the Jamshed-e-Navroz — the New Year as per the solar hijri calendar. It marks the first day of the Farvardin month, which falls on March 21, on every three out of four years. Middle Eastern countries like Iran, where the Zoroastrian faith originated, have long public holidays, as well as in countries like Afghanistan. Some sects of Islam also observe the Novroz holidays, especially adherents of the Shia faith in Iran.
 
 Besides family get-togethers, Parsis attach a high level of importance to cleaning their houses and creating an elaborate table arrangement, which is said to bring luck in the New Year.
 
 “There are seven items which are placed on the table, each representing a certain virtue which should be undertaken in the New Year. The family gathers around these items — sweet dishes, wheat, lentils — to celebrate at the exact time of the New Year. Besides the feast, gifts are exchanges and the community members also organize cultural programmes at the local club or gymkhana,” said Tehmas Bharucha, a member of the Parsi community in Pune.
 
 
