CHENNAI: Getting a   may not take more than a day soon, as the   department is pushing the entire process  . Currently, couples have to wait for up to a week to receive certificates validating their marriage, after manually submitting applications at sub-registrar offices.

 “The process is simple. Those applying for marriage certificates will have to feed the data into the application form through the  . The same data would be entered into the marriage registry and later in the marriage extract (certificate),” a senior official privy to the developments said.
 
 Once the system is in place, if a couple applies for the certificate with necessary supporting documents online in the morning, they may be able to collect it by the same evening, after three witnesses to their marriage provide signatures at the sub-registrar office in person. 
  
  
 This would also help in avoiding errors, particularly spelling errors that occur when officials manually key in details into registers. Correcting errors is also time-consuming, because it can be processed only by the inspector-general of registration at Chennai. 
 
 On an average, 80,000 marriages are registered in the state under the Tamil Nadu Registration of Marriages Act every year. While around 59,000 marriages were recorded under the Hindu Marriage Act between April 2017 and February 2018, nearly 6,600 marriages were registered under the Special Marriage Act during the same period. In the existing offline procedure, filled in applications submitted at sub-registrar offices take anywhere between three days and one week for processing.
 
 Official sources said the online facility would be launched in a couple of months. “It is likely to be introduced from  ,” another official said. Moreover, all marriage registrations would be uploaded online a day after certificates are issued.
 
 Option to register for marriage certificates online is part of the upgradation of registration department   to facilitate speedy registrations. Since February this year, all property registrations have been pushed to the cyberspace.
 
 
