NEW DELHI: Five games into the 11th season of the  , and Royal Challengers Bangalore sit at sixth place on the leaderboard with two wins from five matches. Their play-off hopes are not dashed yet, but the franchise is nearing that point where ticking the W column is going to become non-negotiable. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 As the beleaguered   unit prepares to next play second-placed Chennai Super Kings on Wednesday,   has revealed that the squad has taken inspiration from an unlikely source: baseball. 
 
 In specific, the World Series-winning Boston Red Sox of 2004, who launched arguably the greatest comeback in sports history. Fourteen years ago, the Red Sox became the first and only team in Major League Baseball history to overcome a 0-3 series deficit to roar back and beat their storied rivals, the New York Yankees, 4-3 in the American League Championship Series and seal passage to the World Series. That win, famously, ended a title-less curse that extended back to 1918. 
 
 
 
 
 That famous pennant-winning series inspired a documentary titled 
 , which has become RCB’s latest inspiration, de Villiers revealed in his column for the 
  today. 
 
 “Dan Vettori, our coach, is one of the more cerebral personalities in cricket. He suggested on the evening before the match against Delhi Daredevils that we should gather as a squad and watch a film about the infamous American League Championship Series in 2004, when the Boston Red Sox trailed 0-3 against the New York Yankees but fought back to win 4-3,” wrote de Villiers.
 
 “The Red Sox adopted the mantra: “Don’t let us win one game.” Don’t let us win one game, they told each other, because just one victory will give us the self-belief and the confidence, will help us slip into gear and we will gain that precious momentum and, all of a sudden, the team that looked as if it could not win could be transformed into a team that looked like winning. It was an inspired suggestion by Dan, and, all together, we watched and enjoyed the story of the 2004 Red Sox, who were written off and who bounced back.”
 
 As it turned out, RCB stepped into the ground and beat Daredevils by six wickets with 12 deliveries remaining. De Villiers, perhaps taking more inspiration from Vettori and the Red Sox than his team-mates, scored an unbeaten 90 off 39 balls to finish a chase of 175 and was named Man of the Match. 
 
 “It is hard to overstate the importance of RCB’s win over Delhi Daredevils in Bengaluru on Saturday. We didn’t want to lose again at home. We didn’t want to slip to the bottom of the table with four defeats in our first five matches,” wrote the 34-year-old. “We didn’t want to hear the pundits talking again about RCB underperforming and failing to live up to their potential. All the positive energy, all the high expectations, all the genuine enthusiasm around the squad might have evaporated if we had not found a way to chase down the reasonable target of 175, if we had not found a way to get the win and move up the table. Even so early in the tournament, the stakes were high.”
 
 
