NAVI MUMBAI: In a major development in the Cidco-PCMC standoff,   started lifting   from   areas on Friday evening. 

 Cidco chief health officer Dr B S Bawaskar said, “Our joint MD Rajendra Chavan has instructed us to resume garbage lifting in PCMC areas. Most of the piled-up garbage will be cleared by Sunday.”
 
 However, the officer clarified that clearing of garbage was not being done as per the government resolution of March 23 nor according to the PCMC standing committee decision. “The work was resumed keeping in mind problems faced by people. The final decision will be known soon,” Bawaskar said.
 
 Cidco’s Kalamboli node sanitary inspector S R Parab said, “We will try to clear 50MT garbage from Kalamboli by Friday night.” Around 2,100 metric tonnes of garbage has piled up across Cidco nodes, threatening public health.
 
 PCMC had convened an emergency Standing Committee meeting on Friday morning to discuss how to resolve the situation. The Standing Committee has decided to pay Cidco its charges with effect from April 1 to continue the garbage clearance service. 
 
  leader Paresh Thakur said, “Our delegation had a meeting with the PCMC commissioner and deputy municipal commissioner on Thursday. Two options were discussed—taking over the Cidco contractors on the existing terms and conditions to continue work or pay Cidco to resume garbage lifting work.”
 
 Accordingly, the meeting was held on Friday morning. PCMC standing committee chairman Amar Patil said, “Payment will be made to Cidco for garbage lifting from April 1. Increasing public pressure forced us to take this decision. No time limit has been set by when PCMC will take over garbage lifting.” 
 
 Cidco had earlier demanded Rs 53.56 crore from PCMC towards providing various services from October 2016 to January 2018. The final decision will be taken by the Panvel civic chief, Patil said.
 
 Opposition leader Pritam Mhatre alleged that the standing committee decision was wrong as it overrules the government resolution stating Cidco would provide waste clearance services. 
 
 “The ruling party with a majority turned down the chief minister’s decision. Instead of following up with Cidco, the mayor and party leaders agreed to pay Cidco. We demand filing a criminal case against Cidco officials for not lifting waste,” Mhatre said.
 
 People had started complaining about stench and litter on the roads. 
 
 
