The past one year has been rather fruitful for the Kerala Police in their pursuit to curb film  . 

 They have managed to remove illegal torrent downloads, shutting down torrent sites and clearing pirated content seconds after they are uploaded. In fact, they have been so successful that IG Manoj Abraham, nodal officer of Kerala Police Cyberdome, says that the number of piracy cases dropped from around 40 in January 2017 to just five by the end of the year.
 
 He attributes this to Piracy Tracker, an anti-piracy software developed by Kerala Police, last year. “The software has succeeded in drastically reducing torrent downloads. We track the pirated content and remove it as soon as it surfaces online. This has dissuaded perpetrators from illegally uploading a movie soon after its release,” says Manoj.
 
 Aiding the efforts of the police are the internet service providers (ISPs) that have also started blocking torrent sites. “Each of these sites has thousands of users and by taking them down, the number of torrent downloads has plummeted,” says Manoj.
 
 It’s not just the efforts of cops that have clamped down on the illicit cyber acts. Actor and producer   says that for the past two years, film producers in Mollywood too have become more vigilant. “We have appointed our own anti-piracy teams, which monitor content online on a minute-by-minute basis and remove the links as soon as they are uploaded,” he says. “That’s the major reason why online piracy is kept in check. Very few cases are passed on to the police.”
 
 Vijay Babu, who produced  , says that while uploading an entire movie without getting caught is now seemingly out of the question, a few mischief makers shoot segments and share it on social media. “During the first three days of the movie’s release, we took down close to 1,500 clips per day. These were shot on mobile phones and uploaded. We even got two arrested but had to let them go as they were below 18 years old,” he says. Although short clips pose less threat than an entire movie uploaded online just days after a release, these are equally damaging, says Vijay, as they are often the best and most crucial scenes of a movie.
 
 Despite the curbs, there are still many who would rather watch content online free of charge. College student Harikrishnan (name changed) says multiple online sites exist which provide free streaming, which is a more hassle-free and less time-consuming option than torrents because of the high-speed internet available these days.
 
 “There are websites where you find streaming links of movies before the DVDs are out, that too of high quality,” he says. “Most of us prefer this over torrents as you don’t need a laptop or a hard disk and can watch the film on the go on your mobile phone.”
 While internet service providers have managed to block the lion’s share of torrent websites, users now scavenge for certain sites that provide them torrent links. “These sites keep changing the servers routinely so the ISPs would be unable to ban all their links. 
 
 
