NEW DELHI: Killers of business executive Jigisha Ghose were spared the noose by   which held on Thursday that their 2009 crime wasn’t the “rarest of rare” to warrant capital punishment.

 A bench of justices S Muralidhar and I S Mehta reduced the   awarded to Ravi Kapoor and Amit Shukla by the trial court to life terms, while upholding the life sentence given to the third convict, Baljeet Malik. The trio are also facing trial in the   of journalist Soumya Vishwanathan who was found shot dead in her car on September 30, 2008.
 
 “In the present case, it is not clear as to which of the three accused — whether all of them or only some of them — actually committed the murder of the deceased,” the bench observed. “What is proved beyond doubt is that all of them were involved in the crime. Therefore, to differentiate, as the trial court has done, between the accused by awarding the death penalty to two of them may also not be justified.”
 
 While saying homicidal killings reflect “the base instincts of human behaviour”, the bench pointed out that some homicides were, in degree, more diabolical, repulsive and shocking than others. Going by the “rarest of rare category” test as laid down by the Supreme Court, the high court concluded the convicts didn’t deserve death. Kapoor, Shukla and Malik had moved the high court against their conviction and August 22, 2016 sentencing.
 
 Ghose, 28, an operations manager in a management consultancy firm, was abducted and killed on March 18, 2009 after being dropped by her office cab near her Vasant Vihar home around 4 am. Her body was recovered three days later from Surajkund in Haryana.
 
 After trial began in April 2010, the sessions court held the three men guilty of murder, abduction, robbery, forgery and common intention under IPC, with Kapoor additionally convicted under the Arms Act for using firearms. Shukla and Malik were also directed to pay Rs 2.8 lakh and Rs 5.8 lakh as fine, while Kapoor was fined a lower Rs 1.2 lakh due to his incapacity to pay a higher sum. The trial court directed that of the total fine amount, Rs 6 lakh was to be given to the parents of the victim, and an adequate compensation decided by the District Legal Service Authority (South).
 
 In their appeal, the accused maintained through their advocate Amit Kumar that they had been framed and argued the trial court had erred in convicting them. While upholding the conviction, the high court said the prosecution had conclusively pointed to the guilt of each man, but did not concur with the trial court's conclusion that Kapoor and Shukla deserved to hang because they were not capable of “reform or rehabilitation”.
 
 The arrest of Ghose’s killers had also led to the cracking of the similarly unsolved murder of TV executive Soumya Vishwanathan when the police recovered the weapon allegedly in her murder from the trio.
 
 
