KOLKATA: A   vacation bench has asked the National Eligibility Entrance Test ( ) authorities to reserve a seat for an examinee till a regular bench decides on her petition challenging the 2018 error-ridden Bengali question paper.

 Kalna-based Apala Debnath moved the HC, alleging the Bengali version of the   had 180 mistakes — though the English version had none — which went against candidates like her. The HC vacation bench, in an interim order last week, asked the NEET authorities to respond to the petition within a week after the HC reconvened on June 4.
 
 Debnath moved court, arguing that the translation errors in the question papers were “negligent, irresponsible and motivated” and that the test booklet contained 180 translation mistakes. The CBSE information bulletin given to examines said the English translation would have to be accepted as the final version if the translation was confusing. Therefore, she argued, examinees like her had to compare the Bengali questions with English versions in the three-hour exam window, which affected her and other candidates. She sought a ban on the publication of result.
 
 Justice Protik Prakash Banerjee gave an interim order last week, seeking a report on why the Bengali question paper had so many errors. “If the intention of the authorities was that only people who knew English well would be eligible to appear for the examination”, they could have simply asked people not knowing English not to apply, the HC said. The interim order, the HC said, was to ensure that people who wrote the paper in Bengali were not discriminated against for question-paper errors.
 
 “The result may be published but one post/position shall be kept open by NEET authorities. I make it clear that this shall not be a blanket ban on publication of result,” Justice Banerjee said. The HC then posted the matter for hearing by a regular bench. It also said that its observations were “prima facie” and the regular bench would not be bound by them while hearing the matter.
 
 A senior NEET official said they were yet to examine the court order. “Students have to study MBBS in English. That explains the stress on English. Language experts are responsible for translation but many scientific terms cannot be translated into regional languages and this may have led to the problem,” he said, adding they would reply to the court soon.
 
 Experts said the quality of translation was “extremely poor”. “The Bengali version even has unfinished questions,” former SSKM teacher Dr   said, giving several examples, including question 74 in text booklet XX.
 
 
