PATIALA: Almost a year after six masked men robbed Rs 1.33 crore from an   cash van near a private university on the Patiala-Chandigarh highway, police have stumbled upon clues that hint at the involvement of slain gangster Vicky Gounder’s group.

 The cops were already working on a theory that the crime could have been committed by gangsters.
 
 Sources in the police said the investigating team, which had been probing the case, had taken gangster Tirath Dhillon on remand and was interrogating him. They had received information that the robbery had been carried out by Dhillon and his associates, said sources.
 
 Dhillon, who carried Rs 2 lakh reward, was arrested by the Khanna police on March 3 following a tip-off. He is a close associate of slain gangsters   and Prema Lahoria. As per police files, he was also present during the murder of gangster Sukha Kahlwan and former gangster Jaswinder Singh Rocky.
 
 The six-member gang had pulled off the highway robbery outside   on the busy Patiala-Chandigarh road near   and fled with Rs 1.33 crore on May 2, 2017. Initially, the cops suspected the robbery had been carried out by the members of   who had used some locals to execute the crime. However, Gounder had disassociated himself with the robbery by putting up a post on his social media account.
 
 Later, a video recording of the crime had gone viral on social media, which was scrutinized by the cops to get additional information in the case. The robbers had left behind a car used in the crime and fled from the scene in an SUV. It was later found to be owned by a Rajpura-based government employee who had reported that his vehicle had been stolen a few months back.
 
 The robbers had fired at the tyre of the cash van and its driver Sukhwant Singh who had sustained an injury below his shoulder. They had taken away the rifle of the security guard which they threw on one side of the road at some distance from the crime scene.
 
 However, Patiala superintendent of police H S Virk said the matter was still under investigation and it was too early to comment on the involvement of Gounder’s associates in the robbery.
 
 
