MUMBAI: Mrunmayee was a sprightly girl who bounced around the whole day. Her father Nitin and mother Jayshree finally found a calling for the hyperactive girl when they enrolled her in a rhythmic gymnastics class at the state-government   ( ).

 
 
 Jidnyasa’s aunt also felt that she would do well at rhythmic gymnastics. Her parents did know about gymnastics having watched the Olympics on TV.
 
 Both Mrunmayee and Jidnyasa are a small number of children opting for rhythmic gymnastics at the DSC, which is located next to Asia’s biggest slum in Dharavi.
 
 DSC sports manager,  , a former international-level artistic gymnast, feels the sport would be ideal for the profile of the people staying around the complex. “These kids do not have a ground to play and they are prancing around on the streets. Initially when I introduced the sport, I was not sure how the response would be. But the interest levels took me by surprise,” says Upadhyay.
 
 Also, as opposed to artistic gymnastic, which requires plenty of heavy equipment like balance beam, uneven bars, vault and floor, rhythmic gymnastics requires little equipment like rope, hoop, ball, clubs and ribbon. It is economically viable for running the sports club. She says she now has to stop taking more children as she does not have enough hands on deck to coach the youngsters. “I have 200 children for rhythmic gymnastics. Of course, I have other sports like football, table tennis and swimming in the complex but clearly the numbers for rhythmic gymnastics and, of course, football is way too high,” says Upadhyay.
 
 What’s interesting is that the young athletes don’t just come to while their time at the DSC rather many have gone on to represent the state or even the country.
 
 “Not everybody is just happy to find the sport as succour. Some obviously will have the ambition to take it one step further. Some have faced disappointment of missing out on international meets. I have to console them and tell them their time will come,” says Upadhyay.
 
 Like any institution the DSC needs capital for smooth functioning. Unlike other sporting bodies, Upadhyay doesn’t believe in letting out the venue for marriages or private parties. “We are a self-funded body. We don’t want to earn money through marriages. That could lead to damage of our set-up. Plenty of corporates conduct their sports meet and this sports complex gets funded through such means,” she says.
 
 Another sport that is attracting youngsters is swimming. “We have a pool that is as good as any in the city. Initially, I was apprehensive about throwing open the facilities to the locals but I clearly insisted on basic rules like a shower before and after a pool session, proper costumes. It did not take them long to realise that these facilities are for them and they use it as best as they can. I am very proud of them,” says Upadhyay.
 
 With a steady flow of sports enthusiasts, Upadhyay is now keen to upgrade the facilities.
 
 “I would like better flooring to teach the gymnasts,” she says. Currently the classes for the beginners are held in a hall. For the senior students, she uses the badminton court. “But the court is basically for badminton so when those players arrive, I have to move out the gymnasts,” she explains.
 
 
