PUNE: The last time   had played an international limited-overs match was back in July 2017 against the West Indies. Since then, the likes of   and Yuzvendra Chahal had taken up the cudgels of the spin department in the Indian side with the Saurashtra allrounder all but sidelined. Jadeja returned to domestic cricket but could hardly make an impact.

 
 
 
 Under the circumstances, a good IPL could spark a change in fortunes for the left-arm spinner, who was retained by   (CSK) for Rs 7.5 crore. But so far, the 29-year-old has only looked a shadow of his former self. One of Jadeja’s biggest strengths is to cramp the batsmen for space with his unerring accuracy and his ability to exploit the conditions on offer. He is yet to find that rhythm in  , picking up only one wicket at an economy of 9.33.
 
 What has also not helped is the fact that captain   has only made him bowl three overs in three matches so far. While Dhoni has employed the likes of offie   and leggie   in various match situations, his reluctance to use Jadeja — one of his most trusted soldiers over the years — has sparked off the debate whether the latter’s style of bowling is becoming too predictable.
 
 Former India left-arm spinner Maninder Singh feels that Jadeja should be fearless in his approach even if there is a chance that batsmen are picking his length easily. “It is a mystery as to why Jadeja is not bowling. I feel he must be carrying some injuries. If not he should be bowling fearlessly. Anyway CSK have been giving away too many runs. So I don’t understand why Dhoni is not using him. The bottom-line is he needs to bowl if he harbours any hopes of making a national return,” Maninder told TOI.
 
 While Jadeja’s bowling is yet to yield the desired results, his performance with the bat has been average despite hitting a match-winning six against Kolkata Knight Riders under pressure. Coming in to bat ahead of the in-form Dwayne Bravo, he has compiled only 42 runs in three matches. But Dhoni is willing to give him a longer rope, especially after Kedar Jadhav was ruled out of the IPL. 
 
 “We have confidence in Jadeja. This is also the right time to give him that opportunity. If he cannot do (it), Bravo can always step up. But if Jadeja can come good, it will be really good. (Suresh) Raina is another left-hander at the top and if we can have Jadeja who can do the job as a floater, the opposition will find it difficult to plan their bowling. So far we have never really given Jadeja the kind of opportunity he deserves. So I will definitely back him to come good in the future games,” Dhoni had said after their match against KXIP.
 
 The only aspect in which Jadeja has looked rock solid till now is his fielding. But the wily spinner would know that it would take more than his athleticism on the field to get back into reckoning for the national limited-overs side. Tamil Nadu coach Hrishikesh Kanitkar, who had worked with Dhoni during his stint as Rising Pune Supergiant assistant coach, summed it up. “I feel Jadeja didn’t bowl because Dhoni had plenty of options at his disposal. However, it is clear that Dhoni has other plans for him and sees him as a finisher. Jadeja has the skills to do it. He now has to figure it out how he wants to go about the job. The earlier he realises that, the better it would be for the team,” Kanitkar told TOI.
 
 These are still early days and the fighter that Jadeja is, he will know how to capitalise on the opportunities and drive home a point.
 
 
