LUDHIANA: Non-medical students who are appearing for CBSE Class XII exams have put their weight behind an online petition that has requested the education board to check their physics exam with leniency.

 The petition on the website ‘Change.org’, titled ‘Want lenient marking for CBSE AISSCE (All-India Senior Secondary Certificate Examination) Physics Exam 2018’, has already garnered support from 85,000 people and has a target of 1.5 lakh signatories.
 
 Many students from Ludhiana have signed the petition, saying that the exam was tough and lengthy. “I was really worried for my physics exam as I wasn’t able to complete it on time. The paper was lengthy, and I count not attempt almost 40% of it,”said  , a student of class XII. “I too support the petition as many students couldn’t complete their paper. Our career depends on this. I really hope the checking is lenient” 
 
 The petition, started by one Mihraj  , says the exam was easier for students preparing for AIEEE and other engineering entrance examinations, but not for students who used NCERT textbooks. “A majority of students couldn’t complete their paper on time, but there were still some who performed well. I request everyone to sign the petition for their friends, so that nobody gets fails. Many students are depressed after writing the exam. I, personally, support the decision of signing the petition and letting the board know that by setting such lengthy and difficult question papers, they are spoiling our careers,” said  , a classmate of Taarushi.
 
 Apart from students, teachers too are signing the petition. “The question paper was quite difficult and lengthy. Many students were crying after the exam. Physics isn’t an easy subject and setting such difficult papers obviously makes it harder for students. Their future depends on their Class XII board results. I request the board to accept the request made by the students and be lenient in checking their papers,” said a teacher, who did not want to be named.
 
 Parents have also come in support of the students. “I don’t think any child would want to fail in spite of working hard. This was wrong. I request the board to kindly consider the request made by students and let the checking be lenient,” said  , father of a student of Class XII.
 
 
