AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Fair Price Shop Owners’ Association has threatened an indefinite strike from March 1 to press their demands, including higher commission from foodgrain sales. The association’s office-bearers also said that some poor people could not get foodgrain due to technical glitches in the software of the Annapurna scheme, as it often fails to read Aadhar details of ration card holders.

   , president of the Gujarat Fair Price Shop Owners’ Association, on Monday said that the association submitted a list of their demands from the state government, including an increase in commission from foodgrain sales to terms at par with other states like Rajasthan, Delhi, Maharashtra, Kerala and Goa.
 
 “While the commission given to fair price shop owners in Gujarat is Rs 85 per quintal, it is Rs 200 in Rajasthan and Delhi, Rs 220 in Kerala, Rs 150 in Maharashtra and Rs 230 in Goa. We want parity in commission rates. We will go on indefinite strike from March 1 if the government does not meet our demands by Tuesday. We have given them an ultimatum as the government has failed to meet our demands, several of which we had raised in May last year,” Modi, the brother of Prime Minister  , said. Modi said the association wanted the software currently being used to operate the Annapurna Yojana at fair price shops to be replaced as it has many technical glitches.
 
 “The software sometimes fails to read fingerprints and Aadhaar card details of beneficiaries, forcing them to return without their monthly quota of subsidised foodgrain,” Modi said.
 
 The association also wants fair price shops to be allowed to sell LPG cylinders under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, which aims to provide free LPG connections to women from BPL households. Modi said shopowners had been deprived of income due to the policy of the Central and state governments to reduce use of kerosene and instead supply gas under the Ujjwala Yojana. Fair price shop owners also demanded that the government provide financial assistance for education of their children. 
 
 
