As India’s first female superstar,   was an epitome of grace and dignity, and it reflected in her impeccable sense of style. So, since the biopic ‘Mahanati’ was announced, the prospect of catching a glimpse of the rich weaves and jewellery that the diva wore, in colour, is something that everyone’s been looking forward to. And the challenge of transforming   into Savitri was what inspired ace 
couturier  .
 “For me, Savitri is the   of South Indian cinema,” says Gaurang, who designed Keerthy’s costumes in the film. “The kind of clothes Savitri wore — Kanjeevaram blouses and chiffon sarees — are what I’m known for. For  , we recreated a lot of outfits that Savitri wore in her films, by getting exact replicas woven again,” he reveals
 The costumes of Mahanati took a 100 artisans over a year to create. “This is the first time I am designing for a film. I’m told that it’s common for designers to be informed about costumes needed for the next day’s shoot, just the night before. However, for this film, they gave 
 me enough time to recreate the 
 costumes,” he says.
 Gaurang adds, “For example, when recreating a scene from Savitri’s famed film Mayabazaar, Keerthy had to wear a blue Kanchi langa. I had 3 months in hand to recreate the costume exactly like the one Savitri wore in the original! In fact, in the film, Keerthy will seem a lot like Savitri herself, not just because of her acting prowess, but because of the costumes too.”
 Naveen Sangli, of L Bajrang Pershad Jewellers, who designed the ornaments worn by Keerthy Suresh in the film says that every piece of jewellery was carefully handpicked. “We referred to old books on jewellery from the 50s to 80s era and carefully 
 selected the pieces that would need to be recreated for the film. Nothing for the film has been done by machine; everything has been done through the old gold-making techniques by 15 karigars in a span of six months,” says Naveen.
 Produced by Priyanka Dutt, Swapna Dutt and presented by Ashwini Dutt under Vyjayanthi Movies, Mahanati is releasing tomorrow.
 
 
