In a first of its kind order Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) has directed   School-33 to allow a class III student to continue under economically weaker section (EWS) category till class VIII, and to refund the fees charged in the last year from her. The school had last year converted many students from  to  . 

 The commission, acting on a complaint of a class III EWS student, has directed the school to consider her under EWS category till the completion of her elementary education.
 
 The TOI had earlier reported that the school had shifted 22 EWS students in 2017 to general category; claiming that the families had crossed the limit of Rs 1.5 lakh and had requested to be shifted to general category.
 
 The education department also inquired into the matter and asked the school to provide the applications given by parents in which they requested for conversion. The department had also written to the ministry of human resource development (MHRD), seeking clarity on the issue as the Right to Education doesn't mention anything about it. A parent had later complained to the education department and   had submitted a complaint to the CCPCR last year on the matter.
 
 A letter sent by chairperson of   to the principal of the school stated that the commission conducted an inquiry into the matter and recommends that (the student) should be considered in the EWS category till her completion of elementary education even after fourteen years as per the provision under section 4 of RTE Act.
 
 "If the school has taken the fee according to the general category from the (complainant), the same be returned to the complainant," the letter stated.
 
 The families with an annual income of less than Rs 1.5 lakh fall under the ambit of EWS category.
 
 The class III student had stated in her complaint that at the time of her admission, the annual income of her father was less than Rs 1,50,000, which was now slightly above that limit. "However, we continue to be a poor family, and after meeting the basic household expenses, my father is unable to bear the high cost of my education," the student said in her complaint.
 
 She had alleged that the school was forcing her parents to pay the full fee for general category and the father submitted Rs 10,500 on September 29, 2017 as he had no option left. 
 
 The student said that the school was asking for the full payment of fee, which is to be submitted before January 31.
 
 The student had requested the governor that she should be allowed to study in the school under EWS category.
 
 
