MADURAI: The district is in the grip of an intense hot weather, and measures have been introduced to protect the vulnerable groups, like the elderly and children, from its ill effects. But what about another at-risk group: the pets?

 Owners of various pet animals have voiced their concern that searing heat could take a serious toll on their beloved companions unless given a proper care. And, with summer slowly setting in, many have already shown signs of heatstroke like the Rottweiler owned by P  , of Chithamani, here.
 
 “My dog has developed boils all over his body and on his tongue. Veterinarians said that it was from heat. I try to keep him indoors as long as possible and have been taking him to a vet in   once a week since this summer,’’ she said.
 
 As heatstroke is a most common problem that could affect the pets, animals doctors suggested that it was advisable to ensure that they have enough water and balanced diet. The owners are also advised to avoid driving with pets or taking them for shopping during summer.
 
 “I attended a case where the owner had gone shopping leaving his Pug locked up in his car. The dog collapsed due to heat and though it was taken to the hospital, the doctors could not revive it,’’ said a government veterinarian.
 
 People put up pots and boxes for sparrows for nesting, but it is important to ensure that there was a bowl of water and grains near it. This could help many birds to survive in the face of intense heat, he said.
 
 J  , veterinarian, of Animals planet, said that if a dog was looking lethargic or has excessive drooling, panting, increased body temperature and seizures, it might be a sign that the animal was suffering from heatstroke.
 
 “At no cost should the animals be tethered or let loose in an open terrace during summer,” she said adding that she has seen many puppies with parvo, a viral disease, over the last few weeks.
 
 “The animals could die of dehydration. It is better to give them a cold compress if they show any signs. Also give them cold water and spray their bodies with water,’’ she said. All pet animals, such as dogs, cats and birds should be vaccinated against the diseases as prescribed by doctors especially in summer.
 
 Like the pets, stray dogs and birds also face similar heat-related health issues in the summer. P R  , of Urvanam, an animal rescue organisations, said that these animals also should get proper care for their survival. “I have rescued a couple of birds that fell off trees in the last two weeks. It is a must that people leave a pot of water on their compound walls for birds to drink,’’ he said.
 
 Vox Pop:
 
 S Amaravathy of Simmakkal, “I brought my cat to the government veterinary hospital for its vaccination as the summer is starting and I want it to be safe.’.
 
 Dr Teena Monisha, “Dogs that are given a lot of exercise in summer can be given electral mixed water for energy and to prevent heatstroke.”
 
 
