NEW DELHI: From an   and a non-hazardous,   to a new type of loom and technology to convert agriculture waste into pulp that saves 40% water and energy than usual, the  , Delhi, will showcase its innovation at its 14th   on  . 

 
 
  
 
 The engineering institution will also throw open its laboratories to the public, students and industry on the occasion.
 
 The day-long event will commence at 9.30am. After talks on 5D technology and Artificial Intelligence, the laboratories and an exhibition on innovative products and appliances will be opened for public viewing. 
 
 The technologies and devices developed in-house include technology to produce pulp from farm waste. This will not only boost the income of the farmers, but also help curb air pollution by avoiding waste burning, a problem that has assumed an important dimension in the fight against poor air quality in Delhi.
 
 Another interesting innovation is the newly developed handloom. Different mechanical designs were finalised to aid in the ergonomic ease of using the loom while enhancing productivity. 
 
 Several prototypes were made and a scale model was installed at Chirala in Andhra Pradesh, where trials are under way. A productivity hike of 9-12 times is estimated via this new design.
 
 As for the Intelligent Artificial Leg developed by IIT-D, Vipin Kumar, who uses this prosthetic limb, testified, “For four years, I had a passive artificial leg fitted. Then after I got IIT-D’s intelligent leg, I have been feeling more comfortable and now think perhaps that I will even be able to run.”
 
 Professor B K Panigrahi, convenor of the Open House, explained that the event is an occasion for both the inventions of the students to be publicised as well as allow general public and industry a peek into IIT-D’s labs.
 
  “The labs are of interest to the school kids from Class X and above, especially those from the science stream. We have, for example, the robotics labs. And then the students can also visit the chemistry lab where we will demonstrate how to make glass,” said Panigrahi.
 
 On Media Day, to be organised before the Open House, the institute will showcase around 25 products that have been patented or have their patents filed and are ready for commercial production. More products will be on display at the Open House, some of which are under research. A poster exhibition will also explicate the research work being undertaken by IIT-D’s BTech and MTech students.
 
 Apart from the school students, the annual event is a special attraction for science and technology students of higher education institutions and industry. “Last year, around 450 industrial participants and over 2,500 school students attended the Open House,” said Panigrahi.
 
 
