CHENNAI: Against the backdrop of criticism that it was bending over backwards to please the   government at the Centre, the government on Wednesday sought to assert that such charges were a figment of the opposition’s imagination.

 In what could be seen as attempts to dispel such rumours, the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues took turns to clarify that they endorsed the contentious GST tax regime and UDAY scheme, which former chief minister J Jayalalithaa had opposed, only after the key demands of the state were met by the Modi government.
 
 On Wednesday, there were heated exchanges between the opposition and treasury benches, ending with chief minister   intervening to clarify. Denying that his government was “subservient” to the Centre, the CM said his government was only friendly with the Centre to get adequate funds for public welfare and for availing schemes for the state. “It was only the DMK which gave up its ideologies and remained in power at the Centre,” he said, pointing to realignment of DMK with   and   later.
 
 Electricity minister P Thangamani said the government joined Modi’s UDAY scheme, that provides financial turnaround and revival of power distribution companies, only after the Centre conceded to the state’s requests that included the assurance that there would be no quarterly tariff revision.
 
 “We hold our heads high and never remain subservient,” the minister said. Insiders say, the BJP government conceded to the key demands of the state, including issuing bonds for repaying loans for 15 years with a fiveyear moratorium. The state also refused to take over the future losses of the power utility, a condition that was accepted as well. While the tariff revision was the original condition, the Centre changed it to “every year”. But, the state stuck to its stand of no condition and the Centre in principle accepted that the tariff revision may be done “as per the need.” AIADMK’s S   said the state moved the Supreme Court against introduction of Centre’s Navodaya school in the state, and extended legal protection to jallikattu, the famous bull taming sport.
 
 The   is up against the National Medical Commission Bill, though acknowledging the need for reforms in the present regulatory mechanism for medical education. The draft bill, according to the government, lacked understanding of the ground realities and principles of federalism enshrined in the Constitution.
 
 On Motor Vehicles Act, the EPS government maintains the stand that J Jayalalithaa did. It opposes the BJP’s Triple talaq bill in its present form. When DMK’s E V Velu sought to point out that GST, was crippling several sectors, minister D Jayakumar retorted, “We got the legal protection as sought by Amma for the compensation package from the Centre. Didn’t you (DMK) support GST?”
 
 
