Valentine’s Day is right around the corner and you must be definitely thinking of buying the perfect gift for your loved one. While designer hampers and chocolates are the first thing that come to mind, you can make things exciting by gifting something different and making your day special. This time round we have some fun foodie ideas that will help you celebrate your love with delicious gourmet gifts.

 
 
 If your partner is a coffee addict, gift a coffee machine so that they remember you every time they brew a fresh mug of coffee and the strong aroma wafts through the home. 
 
 
 
 Veganism is picking up and if your partner has turned vegan a hamper full of vegan goodies is a perfect gift to show your support for the cause.
  
  
 
 
 Express your creativity and stamp your love all over with this cookie stamp. While there are a wide variety of cookie stamps, you can get stamps which are heart-shaped or with love designs or with messages such as 
 ‘Baked with Love’.
 
 
 
 Customised coasters can enhance your fun time together. If you are good at art, it is easy to draw and paint coasters with colours you both love and messages that are personal.
  
  
 
 
 Plain white porcelain plates with a message of love or just simply the word ‘love’ inscribed on it look so adorable. You can also go for a mug or couple mugs (one for each of you) with a personalised design or message inscribed on it. You can also get them heart shaped bowls, heart shaped fruit baskets or a heart shaped breakfast plate.
 
 
 
 Want to heat things up in the kitchen? Make love aprons for both you in colours of love and naughty designs so the next time you both are in the kitchen you enjoy every moment you spend cooking and making memories.
  
  
 
 
 Nothing like going vintage once in a while. Get some floral-themed kitchenware in bright colours against a soft, pastel background. It is sure to set a mood for a romantic tea time 
 together.
 
 
 
 If your partner is a big time foodie and cannot stop thinking of food all the time, get him a phone case with food or foodie doodles to match with his likings.
 
