PATNA: Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) and All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) are the only medical institutes in the state which have licence to start pharmacy under Affordable Medicines and Reliable Implants for Treatment (AMRIT) scheme of the central government. The scheme was launched in November 2015 to provide relief to cancer and heart patients. The pharmacies under this scheme are supposed to provide patients around 202 drugs for cancer and 186 for cardiovascular diseases and 148 types of cardiac implants at affordable prices.

 Replying on behalf of state health minister Mangal Pandey to a question raised by BJP MLC Rajnish Kumar in the state legislative council, road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav said the health department received only two applications for medical store under AMRIT scheme and appealed to interested people to come forward.
 
 Also, out of the targeted 995 medicine stores in   to provide generic medicines under Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Jan Aushadhi Pariyojana (PMBJAP), only 110 stores have been given the licence till date.
 
 Under the PMBJAP scheme, more than 600 medicines and 150 surgical and other medical items are to be made available at affordable rates at stores commonly known as ‘Janaushadhi kendras’. There is supposed to be one such medicine store at a distance of every 2.5km in urban area and 5km in rural area.
 
 Through a call attention motion, Rajnish also raised the issue of rise in number of cancer patients in Bihar and the lack of adequate facilities in government hospitals to deal with. He said around 2.50 lakh people in the state were suffering from cancer, but the government hospitals lacked sufficient number of doctors as well as technical staff. He also pointed out that radiation and chemotherapy machines at   and IGIMS were lying defunct. The minister assured him the government would soon get the machines repaired.
 
 Regarding the state government’s initiative for cancer patients, Yadav said Rs90 lakh was allocated to PMCH to purchase cobalt machine. The minister also said a cancer hospital would be set up at Shri Krishna Medical College And Hospital, Muzaffarpur, with the help of Atomic Energy Commission of India and   (TMH), Mumbai.
 
 Few legislators also raised concern over arsenic, fluoride and iron content in the drinking water in different districts of Bihar. Public health engineering department minister Vinod Narayan Jha said 2,402 wards in 13 districts had more than the permissible limit of arsenic level in groundwater. Similarly, the fluoride level exceeds the permissible limit in 3,097 wards of 581 panchayats in 11 districts and iron level exceeds the permissible limit in 20,719 wards of 1,513 panchayats in nine districts.
 
 The minister said the government has taken up the initiative to provide safe drinking water under ‘Har ghar nal ka jal’ scheme and the nine districts with excess iron content in groundwater would get safe drinking water by 2019-20.
 
 Earlier, the proceedings started with commotion as RJD and   legislators trooped into the well demanding resignation of chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh over the Ranchi CBI special court notice to him in a fodder scam case. An adjournment motion was also moved by RJD legislator Sanjay Prasad in this regard.
 
 
