MUMBAI: Sixteen years after a woman’s death, the Bombay high court ordered her   to hand over her flat opposite   in Bandra to her US-based nephew. 

 Justice   ruled that the will produced by the woman’s stock broker and CA that leaves a substantial part of her estate to them and excludes her own brother—a US national, seems to be “concoction and fabrication”. The brother died during pendency of the petition. 
 
 The bench also directed the broker and the CA to deposit within a month all the money they had withdrawn from her bank accounts after her death. The woman (69), a doctor who was working for the  , died in 2002. The letters of administration to her estate were initially issued in the name of the woman’s brother. However, in 2004, the stock broker, who claimed to be her financial advisor, and the CA, furnished a will, that said that the brother should only be given a maximum of Rs 10 lakh. As to the money generated from the proceeds from her estate, accounts and jewellery, some of it was to go to charity, while a substantial part was to go to the broker though he was not related to her. 
 
 “The picture they portray of (the deceased woman) is entirely unconvincing. This is an image of an unmarried lady, living alone, with no contacts from her building society, neighbours, neighbourhood, or work place, and no affinities other than her CA who filed her tax returns, and the son of her earlier stock broker,” said Justice Patel. “He did not live in the area or close to her, but halfway across the city; even so he claimed such a deep bond that she left a bulk of her estate to him. Yet he knew nothing of her medical condition, and had nothing at all to show about her alleged distancing from her only living blood relative, her brother,” the court said. 
 
 The judge pointed out that the broker was involved in the making of the “self serving will”, the witnesses were his relatives, and there was no evidence to show that the woman and her brother were so estranged that she left him out of her will. The court said that three versions of the will were furnished before the court and there were discrepancies in each of them, including the manner in which the documents were signed. 
 
 The court dismissed the petition to probate the will and said that the letters of administration initially issued be revived. The nephew would also have the authority to manage the woman’s bank accounts.
 
 
