NAGPUR: Chief minister Devendra   on Sunday said 1,500 personnel of city police would get lands for building houses. The CM made the announcement while addressing the gathering at the ‘bhoomipoojan’ ceremony of the ‘Police Bhavan’ at the premises of the commissionerate at Civil Lines. He also said various schemes including health care for cops, skill development for their families and also reducing the duty hours are in the pipeline. 

 Fadnavis, present along with union minister  , guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, Addl Chief Secretary (Home) SK  , DGP Satish Mathur and others at the programme, also said police department has been accorded free hands to fill up their vacancies. “In three years, around 30,000 personnel have been recruited in different ranks,” said the CM. He also indicated his government is keen to ensure the deficit in the police manpower is eliminated.
 
 Fadnavis also pointed out that Maharashtra is the first state where CCTNS implementations and e-complaints have been dually implemented. He said CCTNS has empowered police through creation of a central database which enables a countrywide search on information regarding any criminal. On the other hand, e-complaints have helped citizens to file their grievances from the comfort of their homes which also raises the accountability of the police department. 
 
 Fadnavis, during the address, also underlined hordes of beneficial and welfare related plans for the police department including restricting duties to eight hours which have been implemented in around 80 police stations in Mumbai. “Medical check ups are done for cops above 40 years of age. We are now trying to reduce their stresses,” he said. “Skill developments have been introduced for the family members of the police personnel including women,” he said. 
 
 The chief minister also said that the police personnel would now get Rs20 lakh loans to build their houses apart from another Rs2.50 lakh from  . “After service, the cops will not be deprived of a shelter of their own,” he said. 
 
 Fadnavis said the police department needs to get smarter and tech-savvy to stay one step ahead of the criminals who are fast switching to modern techniques to beat the investigating agencies. “The CCTV cameras in city would now act as the third eye of the cops through which an e-challan can be sent to the doorstep of the violator even if there is no cop present on the road,” he said.
 
 DG Mathur, during speech, requested to increase the budgetary allocations from Rs350 crores to Rs1,000 for various schemes. ACS (Home) informed Nagpur police are set to get land in MIHAN for housing.
 
 
