INDORE: With evolution of the fashion industry the holy town of   known for its traditional hand woven silk and cotton sarees is adapting to the new demands and shifting its focus to newer fashion accessories like suit pieces and stoles. 

 Not only is the shape and size of the fabric changing with time, the designers too are coming in from prestigious organisations and design schools to help the almost 40-year-old setup churn out newer designs that can match the urban demands. 
 
 It is only a result of this, that the  , which was initially only limited to   has now started production of stoles, dupattas and suit pieces, which are put up in exhibitions across the country and are also exported outside. 
 
 The cost of the fabric matches that of expensive designer collections and is sold at a much higher rate than its mill-made counterparts. The most expensive product of the society continues to remain the saree, followed by suit pieces and shawls. 
 
 The 90 looms in Rehwa Society are divided among sarees, stoles, dupattas and suit pieces, with the largest chunk being that for the sarees. It continues to be Rehwa's primary product, followed by stoles and suit pieces both having 10 looms each and lastly dupattas, for which the demand his considerably low. 
 
 Recently, the society has received a new order for a  , which is worn by people after they come out of the sea. It is tied around the waist. It is not a lungi but a piece of cloth wider than a stole but narrower than a dupatta. 
 
 "We have recently got order for 'seran' the Goan cloth that people wear after swimming and have allotted one handloom for it. It is 32 inches wide and we are keeping its length at 1.8 metres which is the same length as a normal stole. Its design had been sent over to us and now we are planning to make it available," production manager at Rehwa Society Amrut Bicchve said. 
 
 This change in the size and shape of the fabric produced by the society has also helped the older weavers, who can no longer work on the sarees which are wider. 
 
 "I have been weaving with the Rehwa Society since its inception. I was initially able to weave sarees, but as my eyesight turned weak and had an operation, I can now only make stoles," 68-year old weaver   said, whose daughter and daughter-in-law are also weavers at the loom.
 
 
