CHENNAI: The state registration department has come up with a simplified process to register properties, taking it online and modelling it on the passport application process.

 A week from now, tou won’t need to head to a sub-registrar’s office to try to meet officials and apply: You’ll be able to apply from home and then arrange for an appointment to present the papers required. The buyer will have to submit a   for the proposed property with supporting documents, including title deed, patta and encumbrance certificate in person.
 
 “It requires the physical presence of the buyer or seller. This process can be done online where parties concerned (buyer or seller) can send the draft document with necessary legal documents through the portal,” a registration department official told TOI. “The facility would be inaugurated in a week’s time.” 
 
 This is the 2.0 version of ‘STAR’ (Simplified and Transparent Administration of Registration), an information technology-enabled service implemented by the registration department to facilitate speedy registrations. The facility would also generate the date and time slot for registering their documents akin booking for passports.
  
  
 
 “After the sub-registrar approves the draft document, the applicant will receive an SMS,” the official said. The date and time slot will be generated automatically for the buyer and seller to visit the sub-registrar’s office.
 
 “This system is aimed at weeding out the interference of middle men and touts causing inconvenience to those visiting sub-registrar offices for registrations. Senior officials of the registration department will be able to keep track of the number of applications filed in the 578 sub-registrars offices across the state,” the official added.
 
 Officials prepare an average of 20 lakh land deeds every year, generating an annual revenue of Rs 8,500 crore for the government.
 
 Between 65 and 100 documents are registered in each sub-registrar’s office, while a few report less than 10. Registration department sources said 99% of the revenue for the department was through  
 
 Officials will by April extend the new facility to other transactions, including applications for  , permits to set up chit funds and register societies, sources said.
 
 
