Chandigarh: The number of casualties in   in Chandigarh has come down to 107 in 2017, a figure lowest among those recorded since 2013. As per the data available from police department, the number of deaths the city witnessed on roads in 2017 has dipped by 44 in a year.

 The data says 117 road users were killed in 2013, whereas 131 were killed in 2014. The year 2015 recorded a minor dip in fatal accidents in the city with the total number of casualties at 129. However, the number touched its peak in 2016 as 151 people were killed in road accidents.
 
 The data further shows that the road accidents mostly claimed the lives of pedestrians and cyclists on the roads. A total of 201 pedestrians were killed in road accidents from January 2013 to December 2017.
 
 
  
 
 The cops said the main reason behind less fatal accidents on road is the regular awareness drives and challaning of the violators on roads. Regular nakas to check drink driving have also proved helpful to reduce the fatal accidents on the roads.
 
 Navdeep Asija, a road activist, said it is quite significant to see that the city has witnessed fewer road casualties on road in 2017, in comparison to the previous five years. “The main reason behind is the effective working of the enforcement and engineering wing together. Fatal accidents were mixing drinking and driving, and now police have succeeded to put some control over the drunk drivers by increasing the anti-drunken nakas in the city. Traffic police put anti-drunken nakas four times a week. The numbers of check naka points have also been increased. Now motorists think twice before driving after having drinks in city,” he said.
 
 Harman Sidhu, president of Arrivesafe NGO said however, the number of fatalities on city roads has come down, the areas of concern are the deaths of pedestrians and cyclists in the city. Authorities are now widening the roads for motorists to give them enough space to commute safely. However, some of the cycle tracks are in dilapidated conditions and are not usable, Sidhu said.
 
 “Administration has installed pelican lights at six pedestrian crossings points. This has also helped to reduce the number of pedestrians meeting with accidents in the city. More pelican lights should be installed in the city,” he added.
 
 
