 won the hearts of the audience for her role in Tamil television serial Azhagi, in which she was fondly called Major Amma by other characters in it. Apart from that, her roles in Pondatti Thevai, Vamsam and   have made her one of the most sought-after television actresses. She started off as a child artiste and went on to play female protagonists in several serials. This veteran in the Tamil serial industry has had a tremendous journey so far. Excerpts from an interview:

 
 Challenges do exist in all sorts of industries. Film actors during my time were not taken care of well, unlike how things are today. We were not paid well and that led to monetary issues in the families. However, I always gave my best and I am happy. I have no regrets and I am glad that I faced those challenges which have made me what I am today. 
 
 
 Language was the big priority then. Every artiste had to know the language in which the film was being made. But today, many young girls from Mumbai play lead roles! They easily establish their careers here as they have the option of dubbing. There are hundreds of dubbing artistes in our industry. Back in the 50s and 60s, it was completely different. 
 
 
 It depends on the subject. When I was a film actress, there used to be a lot of family-oriented dramas where glamour was not so necessary. The weightage was given to emotions and drama. But today, the films are only conceptualised around the hero, heroine and the villain. There is very little space for emotions and drama.
 
 
 I have done many stage plays. Theatre gives me immense satisfaction when compared to films and serials. While doing a play, we get into the skin of a character for more than an hour and with no breaks in between. And the kind of reaction that we get after the show is priceless. In films, I am confined to perform only certain characters. But in serials, I can do anything and that gives great exposure. People recognise me as a TV artiste more than as a film actress. I receive immense love from the audience only through serials.
 
 
 I am not doing anything in Tamil right now. Playing soft-spoken mother characters repeatedly, I feel, I am boring my audience. So, I’ve chosen to take a break. I’m doing a serial in Telugu called Okariki Okaru. 
 
 
 I am a fan of   amma. I also like  . I love  , in Tamil. I’ve been watching her since Chandramukhi. She has undergone a drastic transformation in the last 7-8 years. 
 
