

 We read with interest your recent article in TOI congratulating yourself and your team for the progress made in tackling   in the state. While we share your enthusiasm, the reality is different and one that needs immediate action at the city, state and national levels.
 
 
 We have been witness to the scourge that TB has unleashed on Mumbai over the last two decades. Whilst the government and the program have made progress, there are, sadly, miles to go and promises to keep. First the good news: TB is firmly on the government’s agenda. Hence, there is no better time to push for transformational change or this letter. The Indian DOTS (Directly Observed Therapy) programme has finally (one of the last countries to do so) shifted from the intermittent to the daily system of administration of TB drugs. There has been a substantial expansion of GeneXpert, the revolutionary new diagnostic test, introduced globally eight years ago. More money has been set aside in the budget for nutritional support for these patients. There have been some limited efforts to engage the private sector, which diagnoses and treats most of India’s TB patients.
 
  
  
 
 
 Now for the bad news. We still seem to be floundering in the dark. Tuberculosis continues to exist on an epic scale in India, entrenched as our biggest public health problem. India still has the most TB cases in the world (2.8 million), amongst the most MDRTB cases (over 1 lakh cases), the most deaths from TB of any country (2.8 lakh a year) and a staggering annual economic loss ($24 billion, or Rs 1.6 lakh crore) from this one disease. These “official” figures are, if anything, considerable underestimates: a study in the Lancet showed that our current estimates of the total numbers of TB patients in the country are considerable underestimates, there being an additional missing 1.5 million TB cases. Can you imagine not even knowing the strength of our main public health problem? Especially one that spread’s through air?
 
 
 More importantly, MDRTB seems so widespread and pervasive in some urban hotspots like Mumbai that it threatens to sabotage all the progress made by DOTS. Chief minister, we invite you to visit one of our clinics, to witness for yourself the unending queues of patients infected with the most highly resistant strains, who have not just MDR (resistance to the two main first line drugs) but are often resistant to seven or more drugs. These patients have no effective drug options and are “untreatable” or “therapeutically destitute”. They often remain undetected, continue to live in densely crowded slums like   (population density 2,000 people per acre), travel in crowded buses, and trains, and work in poorly ventilated offices, thus transmitting these deadly strains through our crowded cities. An average TB or MDR-TB patient will infect 10-20 others a year before eventually dying and thus the epidemic spreads unabated.
 
 
 There are two new drugs (  and  ) available that could potentially save these patients’ lives. Shockingly, the government is so restrictive in its policies that they are almost impossible to access despite 75% of these highly resistant cases being cured with the addition of these drugs. And thus, though we may sound like pessimists, we feel that India will be hard-pressed to keep to the official mantra of eliminating TB by 2030.
 
 
 We urge you to expand this discussion and meet with health workers and doctors on the frontlines to understand TB better, create avenues for citizens to be better informed about TB, and invest in expanding access to free and accurate diagnosis and appropriate treatment for all. Most important, let’s think about how our cities have become breeding grounds for TB. We are inching in the right direction, but it is far too soon to be congratulating ourselves. The battle against TB has only just begun!
 
 
 As the Persian polymath and physician   said in 1010, “there are no untreatable diseases, there is only lack of will”.
 
 
 
 
