Jodhpur: An audio clip, allegedly part of a telephonic conversation of Asaram, who was convicted to life for raping a minor, went viral on Friday evening.

 In the 15-minute audio clip, which is doing the rounds in the social media, Asaram has termed his time in jail as “ephemeral” and remarked “good days will come”.
 
 He can further be heard saying that he will first arrange for the release of co-accused ‘beti Shilpi’, followed by ‘beta Sharat’.
 
 On Saturday, jail authorities claimed that the audio may have been recorded when Asaram had a telephonic conversation with a devotee.
 
 “Inmates are permitted to make calls to two numbers and speak for 80 minutes a month. These are already in jail records. On Friday evening at 6.30 pm, he had spoken to a ‘sadhak’ (devotee) at the Sabarmati Ashram. It appears that this communication has been recorded and uploaded on social media by his follower,” said DIG (prisons) Vikram Singh, who also holds charge as jail superintendent. He claimed that the audio was not leaked from the jail.
 
 In the ‘one-way’, communication, Asaram is first heard extending his gratitude to his followers and ‘sadhaks’ for listening to his appeals and not coming to Jodhpur on the day of judgment.
 
 “I am thankful that you heard me and did not come to Jodhpur. We must respect the legal system. I also do,” he is heard saying in the audio. “Do not get carried away by provocations or anything circulated on the letterheads of ashram, which is against the principles of ashram and my teaching. Some are engaged in negative publicity about ashram using fake letterheads,” the audio says.
 
 Referring to the co-accused Shilpi and Sharat Chanda, he says that he will first arrange for their release from the jail as it was the duty of the parents to first think about the children.
 
 “If more advocates are required for the release of Shilpi and Sharat, it would be arranged. I will think of myself after their release,” he says in the audio. He also makes an appeal to have a big heart and quotes Lord Krishna and verses from Upanishads and says that time is not the same always.
 
 “If some mistake has happened in the lower court, there are upper courts for the rectification of those mistakes. Truth has no cover and lie has no legs. I have trust. It is immaterial, whatever the allegations,” he goes on to say.
 
 At the end of the clip, he makes Sharat to speak, who says that he is fine in the jail and there is nothing to be worried.
 
 
