AHMEDABAD: Quoting from the Indian Constitution and citing ‘Gujarati asmita’ (pride), Gujarat education minister   on Tuesday announced that the   was now compulsory, from class I at all schools in the state, affiliated with all education boards, including CBSE, ICSE and IGCSE as well as at English medium and  .

 “In the Constitution of India, the formation of states has been done on the basis of languages and so I have come forward to announce a key decision of chief minister Vijay Rupani’s government, that the Gujarati language is to be taught at all schools, affiliated with any board and also at non-Gujarati medium schools,” Chudasama announced in the Gujarat assembly on Tuesday.
 
  
 “According to the Kothari commission’s report, the mother tongue of a region must be treated as the first language. However, there are number of schools of other mediums, where Gujarati is not being taught. It is also a matter of concern that children of Gujarat too face difficulties in speaking or understanding the Gujarati language. The government has decided to introduce Gujarati at all schools, irrespective of boards and medium of instruction, so that all students studying at schools in Gujarat are made aware of Gujarati language and culture. Gujarati will be introduced as an introductory language in classes I from the academic year beginning June 2018-19,” added Chudasama.
 
 Schools managements and principals did not seem convinced with the government’s idea and raised questions about its rationale.
 
 Mrugen Shah of Prakash School in the Bodakdev area of the city, said that compelling students to learn Gujarati from class I is erroneous, as parents who migrate from other states will definitely face difficulties.
 
 At present, Hindi and English are taught at CBSE affiliated schools from class I and introducing a third language from class I will put an immense burden on students. At CBSE schools, a third language is introduced from class VI, so students can learn the extra language at a proper age,” Shah said.
 
 Archit Bhatt, director of Tripada Group of Schools, said that there is nothing wrong in introducing Gujarati from class I but the question about how it will be implemented remains.
 
 “Schools affiliated with the international board have students from not only other states but also from other countries and it will be very difficult for them to grasp a foreign language (Gujarati),” Bhatt said.
 
 Nashy Chauhan, director of the Anand Niketan group of schools, said that schools have no option and they will have to teach Gujarati as it has been mandated by the government. “This will increase the burden on students. At present, schools affiliated with the ICSE (Indian School Certificate Examinations) board give students the option of Gujarati or Sanskrit in classes VI to VIII,” said Chauhan.
 
 
