 makes no secret of his love for Gurgaon. The actor grew up in  , where his parents still live. Although he has moved to Mumbai now, Ravi still frequents Gurgaon and makes it a point to visit the city at least on festivals. "I can miss celebrating Diwali at home if my work schedule doesn't permit me to come back here, but I never miss spending Holi at home. Every year, there is a grand Holi party at our place. Everybody is home that time – family and friends – so it's a wonderful experience. Most of my friends are from Gurgaon. It is a very small group of six-seven people, who I have been friends with for the last 22 years. I still play Holi with them every year," he tells us. 
 
  But even though Ravi knows Gurgaon inside out, Delhi was a place he hadn't explored much and in fact, it was his wife   who introduced him to the city. He tells us, "Sargun studied in  , where she was a part of Players, the theatre society. When you are at that age in that space, you tend to explore, go out, which is what she did. I, on the other hand, limited my going out to school and a few spots in Gurgaon. Delhi dekha hi nahin tha. Despite the fact that I lived here for 18 years, she knows Delhi much better than me."
 
  
  
 
  Ravi adds, "In 2010, I came to Delhi to shoot for ' ' and I didn't know Delhi. Sargun took me for the kebabs in  , to  , and other places. She sort of reintroduced Delhi to me then."
 
  Festivals are special for Ravi because they remind him of his days in the Millennium City. "There were two days when your school uniform wasn't safe – Holi and Scribblers' Day, the last day of school," says Ravi, who did his schooling from  , adding, "It was better to have a separate set of uniform for these days, which is what I did."
 
  
  Ravi Dubey
 
  While Ravi did celebrate Holi with family and friends in Gurgaon this year, Sargun was shooting for a Punjabi film and could not join him in the festivities. Ravi, however, says that not being able to be together on festivals doesn't irk him anymore. He elaborates, "I don't know if it really matters, to be honest. You might not be able to spend a few festivals together but what's more important is creating something of value, which is what my wife is doing and I'm proud of that. And you have to mature and get out of the mindset that you are not getting to spend this day together. We didn't even spend Valentine's Day together this year. Par koi nahi, Holi na sahi toh Diwali mana lenge saath mein, aur Diwali na sahi toh kuch aur."
 
  Ravi gets nostalgic taking about  , which is currently being renovated as an entertainment hub, as it was a place he and his family used to frequent during his Gurgaon days. Talking about the landmark's demolition, he says, "It's such a heartbreak. I got to know of that. It's sad because I have so many memories of 32nd Milestone, because woh akeli jagah hua karti thi Gurgaon mein. My family and I would go to our club in Palam Vihar, called the Chancellor's Club, for dinner. This is when I was in Class V or VI. My father is very fond of having paan and outside 32nd Milsetone, there was this famous paan shop that also used to sell truffle pastries. So, after dinner, we would go there. My brother and I would have pastries and my father would have his paan. Whenever I come to Gurgaon, these memories come back to me and keep my childhood alive. But then, things move on, and the city will evolve. Structures that you are fond of will crumble down and new things will come in their place, but you will always have your memories to go back to."
 
  
  
 
 Gurgaon is still home to Ravi, but Mumbai is where his heart lies now. "My parents and friends are here and I love Delhi-Gurgaon. But Mumbai is my karmbhoomi. It gave me fame and work that I love doing. So my heart does lie in Mumbai. I have a home there now, so that city is also special. Today, whatever I am is because I took the decision to go to Mumbai and not to any other place," says Ravi.
 
  Ravi feels that while many people have favourite eating joints in Delhi-Gurgaon, the entire city has a distinct taste, which is what makes people from outside NCR crazy about the food here. He says, "Whenever I like something, I keep sampling it on a repeat mode for years. For me, that was Chancellor's Club in Gurgaon. Wahan ke seekh kebab and butter chicken were heavenly for me. Delhi has a taste of its own. Whether you go to a roadside restaurant or to a very big hotel, ek swaad alag hi hai khaane ka. There is a richness here, which makes people crazy about Delhi food. It is not limited to any one place or restaurant."
 
 -- Shrishti.Bhatia@timesgroup.com 
 
  
  
 
