RAJKOT:   in three different accidents reported from various places across   and   on Sunday morning. The first accident was reported from Adesar town of Kutch district, where three persons were killed when the car they were travelling in rammed into the rear of a parked truck. Police identified the deceased as Omprakash Chauhan (30), his wife Gameti Chauhan (27) and his brother Girdharinath Chauhan (33) — all natives of Degana village of Nagor district in Rajasthan — who had shifted to Mundra in Kutch to set up their business of scrap. 

 “The trio was going to their native in Rajasthan when the accident occurred. Luckily, Surendra, the seven-year-old son of Omprakash and Gameti, survived with a fracture in his leg,” said an Adesar police station official. 
 
 The second accident was reported from Rajkot-Ahmedabad highway at Devpara Patia village near Limbdi in Surendranagar district where two persons were killed and two injured in a triple collision. Pansina police station constable Mahendrasinh Jhala told TOI, “The car and the truck were coming from opposite directions in the second lane of the road. The driver of the other car lost control after the vehicle’s tyre burst while speeding in the first lane, following which the car jumped the divider and collided with the truck and the car in the second lane.”
 
 “Those killed have been identified as Hitendra Maru (47), a resident of Rajkot and a person identified as Pravinbhai, a resident of Limbdi in Surendranagar district. While Maru was in the car which had a tyre burst, Pravinbhai was in the car driving in the second lane. Both injured were from different cars,” Jhala added. 
 
 The last accident was reported from Halwad-Maliya-Miyana highway in Morbi district where a biker was killed after being rammed by a car. Police identified the deceased as Nijam Jeda (25), a resident of Maliya-Miyana in Morbi district. Those injured in the accident included Sidiq Miyana and Vipul Ahir. The trio had gone to attend a marriage function in Halwad and were returning to Maliya-Miyana riding the same bike when they met with the accident. 
 
 
