KOCHI: The high court on Tuesday directed the   to take up the probe into the custodial death of   expeditiously.

 A single bench of the court gave the direction after the central agency informed the court that it was willing to investigate the case that allegedly involves policemen of Parassala police station who tortured Sreejeev while in custody in a theft case on May 19, 2014.
 
 On January 16, Sreejeev’s mother   had filed a petition in the HC demanding a CBI probe into the case.
 
 In a statement filed before the court last week in a related case, the state government had come out in support of the State Police Complaints Authority’s finding that Sreejeev’s death was due to custodial torture. The government had also informed that it favoured a CBI probe in the case as allegations were against policemen.
 
 Sreejeev’s brother  , whose protest outside the secretariat demanding a CBI probe into the case entered the 775th day on Tuesday, said he will continue the stir till he gets clear information from the CBI that the agency has begun its investigation.
 
 The agency had earlier informed the HC that it will file the First Information Report (FIR) in the case on Wednesday.
 
 Sreejith, whose health has deteriorated after going through many rounds of hunger strikes during his protest, said: “I heard the CBI will file the FIR in the case. Let me get the details, then I will decide on the next step.”
 
 In 2016, the chairman of the   Narayana Kurup had confirmed that Sreejeev’s death was a case of police custodial death and not a suicide as the police claimed. In his report, he said Sreejeev was picked up by Parassala police in an alleged theft case and was tortured in custody by circle inspector Gopalakrishnan, ASI Philipose and two civil officers. He had said that he died after he was thrashed and made to drink poison.
 
 Sreejith’s strike gained momentum over the past few weeks after an online campaign was launched in his support and hundreds, including celebrities and politicians, rallied behind him.
 
