CHENNAI: In an unusual accident, an autorickshaw driver urinating near the site of a   in Thiruvottiyur died on Friday after an earthmover operator dumped a mound of earth over him.

 The police, who identified him as Vijayakumar, 40, of Nandi Odai Kuppam, have picked up the contractor and the site supervisor for questioning on their failure to cordon off the work site to prevent passersby from netering. The two men told investigation officers that they initially thought Vijayakumar was a worker. The police are looking for the earthmover operator who had fled after the incident.
 
 A police officer said Vijayakumar was passing along the stretch when he saw workers digging up the earth near the railway tracks at Thiruvottiyur as part of a   project to lay a fourth line from Chennai Central Railway Station to Athipattu near Minjur and stopped for a look. Engrossed in watching the earthmover dump the dug-up earth further ahead, he decided to attend a nature’s call and slipped away to the other side. However, the earthmover driver, apparently unaware of Vijayakumar’s presence, soon began dumping debris at that spot and the auto driver was buried under a mound.
 
 A few workers noticed him struggling, raised an alarm and almost the entire workerforce along with a few residents of the area rushed to the spot. They began clearing away the earth. Some residents informed the   and  .
 
 A team arrived and pulled the man out. He was sent to a private hospital in Thiruvottiyur where doctors declared him dead on arrival. The body was later sent to the   and Hospital for autopsy. It was handed over to his family members on Saturday.
 
 Some of the residents at the spot later told police personnel that the earthmover operator who had been dumping the earth dug up from the ground to facilitate the laying of a new rail line decided to move over to the other side as the earlier pile had become uncomfortably high and the earth kep sliding down. He did not notice that Vijayakumar had already walked over to that spot, they said.
 
 
