MUMBAI: The high point of Ankur Mittal’s fledgling double trap career arrived last year when he won a silver medal at the ISSF World Shotgun Championships in Moscow. However, the 25-year-old has been forced to think deep after his sport was scrapped by shooting’s international body from the Olympic calendar, beginning Tokyo 2020.

 
 “I did not have much of a choice after this decision was made by the International Olympic Committee last year. I had been working on double trap for the past eight years and just when I was getting into the groove, came this news,” Mittal said on the sidelines of the 3rd Mahindra Scorpio Times of India Sports Award powered by All-Out on Monday.
 
 In what would have come as a double blow to the youngster’s aspirations, the hosts of the 2022 Commonwealth Games, Birmingham in UK, have decided to leave shooting out of their calendar. The Commonwealth Games Federation (CGF) CEO   though refuted reports that shooting has been dropped from the Birmingham Games roster on the organisers’ request. Mittal says he is living in the moment, and is looking forward to the CWG in Gold Coast, Australia that starts on April 5.
 
 “There are certain things that are beyond our control. I can only take care of what is at hand. That’s how I am looking at it,” said Mittal, before adding: “Shooters have brought laurels for India especially at the CWG, so in Birmingham the medal tally will come down.”
 
 Speaking about his immediate target, Mittal said he will be travelling to Italy on March 10 for a session with his mental conditioning coach there. Thereafter, he will go to Australia for the CWG, and continue to feature in the double trap event till the Asian Games later this year. But his biggest challenge will begin once he is done with these major competitions.
 
 He will start training for trap and there would be plenty of adjustments that he will have to bring about in his game. “I started off with trap in my younger days and also won at the junior nationals, so I have a fair idea about what all I would need to do to excel in the discipline. The transition won’t be very difficult to trap.
 
 “Even then, you all are aware how difficult a sport shooting is, and the kind of energy and thought we put in to implement the minutest of changes to our game. Here, it’s a huge decision for me to move to trap. So let’s see how things will work out,” he explained.
 
 
 
 
  Double trap silver at World Championships in Moscow World Cup medals: Gold: Acapulco, Mexico, 2017; Silver: New Delhi, 2017 Asian medals: Gold at Asian Shooting Championships in Al Ain in 2014; Bronze at Asian Shooting Championships in Abu Dhabi, 2016; Gold at Asian Shooting Championships in Astana, 2017
 
