Vadodara/ Anand: Much like many of his batch mates, Ritraj Singh, too could have taken up a lucrative job in the corporate sector. But Singh consciously chose a job which will offer him Rs 3.50 lakh per annum – the minimum salary package of PRM 37.  Singh has taken up a job offered by Urmul, a NGO based in Rajasthan’s Bikaner town, which works for the welfare of weavers in the Great Thar Desert. “It did not happen in a day. Before joining IRMA, I did not have any such inclination. But because of the intervention that IRMA provided and interacting with people living in grassroot levels during three internships, I chose to go for development sector,” said Singh. With 2.82 grade point, he was amongst top 50 in the PRM 37 batch and could have easily bagged a Rs 10 lakh per annum package considering the offers that were made to such students. “During my internship, I came across the difficulties faced at grassroot level by agencies who are working towards implementing government policies aimed at poverty alleviation. I believe it is better to work at grassroot level,” said Singh, whose father Anil Kumar Singh workers in the sales department of a fertilizer firm as manager while mother is a homemaker.  Singh, who did his internships with Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) to assess the impact of the project and later with the Chhattisgarh State Rural Livelihoods Mission, will be working with the rural weavers based in desert regions of Bikaner, Jodhpur and parts of Jaisalmer.  “Ritraj’s decision to work for the rural poor is highly commendable,” said IRMA’s placement coordinator professor Pratik Modi, adding that as part of IRMA’s policy the young graduate will be provided a matching income for a period of next three years to compliment his income.  “We have a unique scheme to promote such individuals who are dedicated for the development sector. Ritraj is eligible for minimum Rs 3 lakh per annum fellowship which will be provided by our institute for the next three years,” said Modi. 