Chennai: TV Sundaram Iyengar & Sons Ltd., the ultimate holding company of the   group of companies, is thinking of imposing a fee on its group companies which want to use the TVS brand.

 T V Sundram Iyengar & Sons was set up in 1911. The group comprises of auto component makers including Sundram Fasteners, Brakes India, Lucas TVS , bike maker TVS Motor Company and financial services under  . The third generation cousins manage businesses ranging from two wheeler manufacture to logistics services to automotive components. The group companies command respect in the business circles for being ethical and trust worthy. The group spread across 75 companies earns more $7.5 billion in revenues. “Today we allow companies within the group to use the TVS name provided 25% or more is held by the group. We are exploring the possibility of royalty type payment for the use of TVS name. It is in early stages,” said Suresh Krishna, chairman, TVS & Sons.
 
 “All companies in the group follow highest ethical standards. Though different family members run their businesses differently, the core which is ethics and trust is followed very strictly,” he said.
 
 “TVS is a solid brand name. It symbolises south India sturdiness, with integrity packed in and a mark of quality,” said Harish Bijoor, brand management consultant. He said that it was a critical exercise to monetise the brand value. “Companies that comply with quality rating across categories should be allowed to use the brand. This is very important and the brand value can be monetized in the mother company,” he said. “Decades of building the brand should be used wisely to monetise.”
 
 The Tata group laid out in 1996, an agreement titled Tata Brand Equity and Business Promotion (TBEBP), companies using the ‘Tata’ name have to directly shell out 0.25% of the annual revenue or 5% of the profit before tax, whichever is less. Those companies which use the name indirectly pay 0.15% of the turnover. If companies incur losses, they do not pay any royalty. TBEBP has been modified to accommodate certain group companies that have, over the years, grown exponentially and were paying huge fees under the earlier system. Other group’s including Godrej charge a small fee from its group companies to use the brand name.
 
 
