Keri: Over a decade ago, Kankumbi was a sleepy hamlet of 5,200 people. It was on Fridays that the village would come to life when a weekly market on the narrow Mauli temple street would be brimming with vendors selling an assortment of articles and agriculture produce including spices, attracting hundreds of buyers from myriad villages in the Khanapur taluk.

 This village, which had agriculture as its main occupation, cultivated paddy and nachnne (millets)—the mainstay of the economy. Even people from Goa would make the trip to this serene area on the Sakhali-Belagavi highway to purchase cheap rice.
 
 But in 2006, when   Neeravari Nigam Ltd started the Kalsa canal project on the   in Kankumbi, it changed not just the landscape but the economy of the village. 
 
 With massive investment being poured in by Karnataka, it looked the once sleepy village would be a beehive of economic activity.
 
 But as the heavy earth moving machinery rolled in, it opened cavernous pits and the picturesque landscape soon gave away to mountains of mud.
 
 “We depended on bhat-xeti (paddy cultivation), but we could not cultivate the fields for nearly a decade due to muddy conditions. Some have resumed working on the fields, but bisons and wild animals from their disturbed habitat run through our crops,” says a farmer.
 
 With a cloud of dust and slushy mud, people preferred to stay indoors than venture out to the market. “Slowly, the Friday market lost its importance,” says a villager.
 
 After almost a decade and after much money and concrete was poured into the earth, there is some respite. But the mess is still around. The changes in   flow dynamics and fragmentation of cultivable land due to canal works have added to their woes. The villagers are not sure whether the scars will heal.
 
 “The economy in our village has collapsed,” says Arun Naik, a former sarpanch of Kankumbi village. 
 
 The villagers never saw the Mhadei project giving them economic benefits. “We held several protests opposing it, but we were brushed aside and police intimidated us,” says Naik.
 
 The Karnataka government acquired their land along the 3km canal route. “The compensation at 25% of the market rate was again a big loss for us, considering we would get more returns on cultivating it,” says a villager.
 
 The village youth have no hope of securing employment locally. “Most of them work in Goa and some in Maharashtra. This is a major source of income for them. Some took up daily wage work at the canal site, but work would stop often and contractors brought their own labour,” says another villager.
 
 No industry has come up nor banks are encouraging entrepreneurs for start-ups. “For approvals, we have to go to Bengaluru and we don’t have the means to do it,” says a youth.
 
 Agricultural activities are being carried out in a tokenistic manner without any government support for diversification of crops. The villagers appear voiceless and some concede that there are no strong leaders among them.
 
 “They have no voice and no leaders to pull them out of their present crisis,” says a Kankumbi youth, now a Goa resident.
 
 
