HOWRAH: As  , 40, continued to battle for his life at a private hospital in south Kolkata, chief minister   called his wife Sumita and 12-year-old son Sagnik, assuring that the state would do whatever it takes to ensure Das gets the best medical treatment. The five-member medical board treating Das felt given his condition - stable but very critical - a cerebral surgery wasn't advisable. 

 Das, who had gone to a village in the Shyampur area of Howrah to implement a court order on Saturday, was chased for more than half-a-kilometre by a mob and then brutally beaten up with rods and bamboo staff.
 
 Sumita said, "Friday was his last day in office. He was to assume charge in Howrah City Police's detective department. The chief minister herself called us up twice, last night and again this morning. She has assured us the best medical treatment and asked me to come to her office directly if I need anything. She also spoke to my son. Her assurances have given us a lot of hope at this dark hour." Sumita said she was very hopeful that her husband would recover. SP (Howrah rural) Gaurav Sharma visited the hospital and spoke to Sumita.
 
 The incident, however, has threatened to expose fissures in the Trinamool ranks for patronizing rival groups that reportedly had a hand in the clash. According to sources, Matiar Munshi, the arrested lawyer, and his rival Alauddin Munshi owed allegiance to a senior Howrah rural leader and an MLA, both belonging to the ruling party. It's alleged both these leaders had been putting pressure on police, including Das, to act. The problem over the 33-bigha Wakf property has been lingering since 1989 but it's only after Alauddin moved the Wakf tribunal and obtained a stay order till disposal of the petition that things took a turn for the worse. 
 
 Trinamool Howrah rural president Pulak Ray said, "I have nothing more to comment. The party had nothing to do with this incident." Trinamool MLA Kalipada Mondal said, "I have nothing to add beyond what my party leadership has already said."
 
 
