Food and civil supplies minister   filed a criminal defamation suit on December 1, 2015, in a Pune court in connection with the allegations of graft made against him by NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik in the multi-crore tur dal scam.

 The case has reached a dead end as Bapat attended court only once. Malik’s lawyer   said the case was heard on 29 occasions between December 2015 and February 2018, out of which on 19 occasions, it was for recording Bapat’s evidence. On all occasions, Bapat’s counsel submitted reasons for his failure to attend court.   said that Malik too secured exemption from personal appearance. Malik continued to attack Bapat for irregularities. The question many ask is, while Bapat filed the case to halt Malik’s attack, is he serious ?
 
 Workers left in the lurch
 
  spokesperson Keshav   was surprised after being nominated for a five-day tour to Israel. Many spokespersons of parties have been invited for the tour.
 
 Upadhye’s nomination assumes significance as the BJP has nominated a grass-roots worker for the first time. Mostly, such opportunities are given to high-profile leaders. BJP leaders and workers were expecting to be accommodated in state-run corporations and statutory committees after the change of guard in 2014.
 
 During the tenures of Vilasrao Deshmukh, Ashok Chavan and Prithviraj Chavan, key boards were vacant as it was decided to not fill these posts for political reasons. After Fadnavis took over, most boards are headed by bureaucrats. In view of the buzz that Lok Sabha and state polls may be advanced to December 2018, Fadnavis will not risk appointing BJP leaders on the boards.
 
 Bureaucracy matters
 
 After the death of   farmer Dharma Patil, Mantralaya has the look of a cage. The public works department led by BJP leader Chandrakant Patil has asked officials to cover all windows and open spaces to ensure that no one will be able to jump out. “Covering windows and open places will not halt suicide attempts, Fadnavis will have to find why   rush to Mantralaya for routine work,” said a bureaucrat.
 
 “During a review of cases during the monthly ‘Lok Shahi Din’, it was found that complaints should have been resolved at the local level by an inspector or tehsildar,” he added.
 
 Farmers have to come to Mantralaya due to the inaccessibility of collectors and SPs. Dharma Patil has been knocking at the doors of the district collector for better compensation for land acquired for a power project for six months, but he was never given a hearing. Fadnavis will have to devise a new action plan for collectors and SPs to redress citizens’ grievances.
 
