NAGPUR: Even as chief minister   and union minister   are making efforts to promote the city as an investment destination and are wooing the investors, the existing industries are in dire straits and are facing closure.

 An RTI query disclosed that about 147 industries in Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) closed down between January 1 last year and March 31 this year. “The global slowdown coupled with demonetisation had already broken their back while GST implementation was the last nail in their coffin,” said   (MIA) President Chandra Mohan  .
 
 The reply given by MIDC officials to RTI activist Abhay Kolarkar’s queries mentioned that about 1,370 units are under its jurisdiction, of which 1,152 are running. The office at Civil Lines had issued notices to 40 units that were shut down while cases are underway against two of them. They, however, failed to inform about proposals for opening new units in the MIDC stating that those were allotted lands based on tendering process.
 
 The officials further informed that the corporation earned a revenue of Rs5.73 crore from the units in period of one year and three months. Currently, an area of 745.83 hectares is under its jurisdiction. It has been divided into 1,673 plots, of which 44 are vacant and open for new industries. It provides roads, water, power and other facilities to the industrial units. 
 
 “Due to closure of such big number of industries, not only the government’s revenue has been affected, but it also led to loss of employment of hundreds of industries. Even the ancillary units are dependent on these industries suffers adversely,” Randheer lamented.
 
 He added that the majority of industries in MIDC came under small-scale category and sudden changes like demonetisation and GST severely impacted them. “About 60,000 workers work in over thousand units here. It’s high time the government needs to take proactive steps to prevent other units from closing their shutters,” he said. 
 
 (With inputs from  )
 
 
