KOZHIKODE: The district administration has intervened to address the unavailability of land for the construction of Material Recovery Facility in local self-government bodies. Though the   project has been progressing with pace in many of the local bodies, 20 gram panchayats and 2 municipalities have been finding it difficult to identify land for setting up MRF centres to collect and sort waste materials.

 District collector  , who is also the chairman of district disaster management authority has directed the officials of various departments to temporarily allocate land for setting up MRF. The direction has been given to allocate 10 cents of land to arrange the storage facility.
 
 The district collector has entrusted the panchayat secretary, village officer and district officers of various departments to identify land for waste material recovery. The identified land will be handed over to the panchayat in one month.
 
 The district collector also warned action against the officials who fail to follow the directions. The land available With Public Works, Revenue, Scheduled Caste, Health, Roads And Bridges Development Corporation, and Irrigation Departments are directed to identify and allocate land for Zero waste project.
 
 The panchayats including Kakkodi, Chelannur, Unnikulam, Narikkuni, Madavoor, Chengottukavu, Thikkodi, Thurayoor, Chekyadu, Omassery, Peruvayal, Thiruvalloor, Kayanna, Kunnamangalam, Kadalundi, Ullyeri, Nanmanda, Kakkur, Naduvannur, Thuneri, panchayats have been finding it difficult to identify land for starting MRF owing to the unavailability of land. Land issue has also delayed the Zero Waste project implementation of   and Mukkom municipalities.
 
 Though the district administration had issued strict direction to all local bodies in the district to start waste collection from January 1, many of the local bodies could not take off the project owing to the delay in identifying land to set up MRF. IT is in this backdrop that the district collector convened a meeting and directed the department heads to temporarily hand over unused land for the purpose.
 
 The ownership of the land will rest with the department concerned, said the officials. The MRF will be shifted from the department land on identifying other land for the purpose, they said.
 
 All local bodies are directed to start the collection of non-degradable solid waste from households from February 15.
 
