QUEPEM: Ramnath Sonu  , 65, of Pedamoll,  , was saved the heartbreak of seeing his family house being razed on day two of the demolition drive undertaken by authorities against illegal structures on comunidade land in the area.

 Administrator of comunidade,   zone, Paresh Desai had issued the order, and on Tuesday, day one of the drive, 16 illegal houses built on land belonging to the Pedamoll, Sirvoi comunidade were brought down. 
 
 Official figures for the number of structures demolished, however, stand at 20. The demolition work had to be carried forward as the excavator broke down.
 
 On Wednesday, the demolition squad accompanied by 100 policemen had razed three houses and had reached the fourth — Satoskar’s house — when Quepem mamlatdar Prataprao   stepped in and halted the squad.
 
 “There is a prima facie proof that this couple has been living in the house for more than 25 years,” Gaonkar said.
 
 Most of the encroachments demolished at the site belong to migrants. “I am not a migrant, I was born on this land,” Satoskar said. 
 
 The sexagenarian said has been living in Sirvoi, in the same house, since childhood. “During my parents’ time, there was no road nor electricity poles or water pipes in the locality,” said Satoskar, who continued to live in the same house after his marriage. Till date, his house has no water and electricity connection. 
 
 Sirvoi comunidade attorney Subodh Sirvoikar, when questioned by Quepem mamlatdar as to why Satoskar’s dwelling had been included on the demolition list, said that houses built around four years ago and without water and power connections had been earmarked for demolition.
 
 Satoskar had received Rs 5,000 as compensation in June 2000 from the deputy collector’s office for reconstruction of his house. “My house was damaged due to heavy rains in 1999,” he said.
 
 After Wednesday’s drive, demolition has been kept pending till further inquiry as some encroachers alleged that a comunidade office bearer had sold them plots in a non-transparent manner without proper documents.
 
 While administrator of communidade   stated that he will initiate complaints against Sirvoi comunidade, Sirvoikar has denied their charges and those making the allegations to prove the charges.
 
 
