You will find an ardent   fan in a 20-year-old and an 80-year-old — that is the magnificence of the maestro’s music. On stage, he speaks the “tabla language” and off-stage, he can jam with you on any topic that matters and moves him — music, musicians, movies or Mumbai. In his universe, he is nothing short of a superstar. And what’s striking is the unbelievable humility with which he carries his lengthy list of achievements, and the legacy of his music forward. His journey, from listening to 'Binaca Geetmala' on radio to being a rage in the world of percussion, is fascinating. At the end of our long chat, he observed that my cuppa chai had turned cold, but for the stimulating conversation that flowed, who would need a shot of caffeine? Read on... 

 
 The idea is to stay plugged into your roots because a   player will always be a tabla player, and sitar player will always be a sitar player. When we are playing, we are representing a long lineage and history, and we are flag-bearers of that music and tradition. Once that becomes second nature to you, then it is something which will always go with you wherever you go. The trick is to not let that overpower everything else. I must find a balance between what I represent and what is out there, which will help me connect with people who speak a different musical language. I should be able to speak tabla language in English, Hindi, Marathi, Persian or whatever else. And when I do that, I will connect with people in a more panoramic way. Similarly, once you are able to interact with musicians from various genres of music, and various generations of music, you make yourself relevant. For instance, if I am a 60-year-old tabla player working with a young Niladri Kumar, Rakesh Chaurasia or Rahul Sharma and I don’t look out of place, it means that I am relevant. So, when the audience sees Niladri and me interacting on stage (even if they are fans of Sitar Funk and that music), then, at that point, the generation gap is not relevant anymore. Instead, what remains relevant is that we are making good music together. Having said that, I am still myself and I have always been that way for the last 40-50 years, so the people who have been listening to my music all this time can see that even though I am working with younger musicians, what I bring to the table is what has been inside me all this time.
 
 This year we have a drummer coming in — Marcus Gilmore, who as far as contemporary jazz, free form, progressive jazz, and jazz rock is concerned, is the flavour of the month. He will be teaming up with Avishai Cohen, a trumpeter from New York (who is also one of the three best jazz trumpeters in the world) along with me and other musicians from India. I am also keeping in mind the tradition that I started since 1996, of travelling with percussionists all over the world, including Indian artistes and this year won’t be any different. What is important is not that the musicians play together, but the fact that they vibe well and get to know each other as human beings. If that happens, the music part will take care of itself as they are such great musicians.
 
 It is not just about Indian music; I think nowadays people around the world are interested in learning about art and culture. It is a universal phenomenon. I think various online platforms have helped people become more aware of what’s happening musically in different parts of the world, and it has made it possible for us to enjoy various art forms and be enthralled by them. Secondly, today, there is a newborn confidence that being an artiste is an acceptable profession. Thirty years ago, it was not that way. Music as a profession wasn’t on the same social level as other professions. Now, it is acceptable and possible for people of all social shelves to be a part of it. Add to that, there is also a newfound economic confidence and there are outlets available for aspiring musicians to make themselves known. Today, there are hundreds of young musicians who can interact with each other compared to the 1960s, when there weren’t so many musicians of my age who I could connect with. I had to exist in the company of artistes who were 10-12 years older than me. In this day and age, an artiste like Niladri Kumar has so many drummers or tabla players of his age group who he can work with. That makes experimenting and learning a little more fun and relaxing, rather than being in the presence of a great master and having to be a certain way.
 
 The only thing I was exposed to was 'Binaca Geetmala' (weekly radio countdown of top filmi songs in the 1950s hosted by Ameen Sayani), which we would eagerly wait for. Back then, we would only listen to the radio and sometimes go to Rhythm House (a music store in Mumbai that shut down) to look for records, but we rarely found any music from outside of India. I was lucky, because when I was quite young, my father would bring me foreign records. Every now and then, we would get a chance to listen to Cliff Richard or The Beatles on the radio. Fortunately, I started travelling abroad at a young age, hence, I came in touch with some great music, but it took me a long time to get comfortable, as I didn’t grow up listening to it. I came in touch with other forms of music when I was about 19, so it wasn’t a simultaneous process. Today, musicians are exposed to it all at the same time, so they can work at being Indian musicians, while also familiarising themselves with music from around the world. Maybe our grounding was better, I have no idea, but I do feel that today, young Indian musicians are more equipped to interact as musicians of the planet than we were at their age.
 
 
 Originally in the 1940-50s, most of the film music was composed by classical musicians, but then it changed because the film industry realised that to reach a large number of people, they needed to make their music more palatable to the masses. So, all sorts of elements were being tried, and a lot of Western classical music and jazz crept into film songs. It made it difficult for classical musicians to survive in that field. There were musicians like Shankar-Jaikishan, Kalyanji-Anandji, Laxmikant-Pyarelal and RD Burman who could work on both ends of the world, and they did well. Classical musicians did not develop a temperament for it and were not able to keep up with the times. For me, as a young musician, playing for Bollywood movies was an exciting process. I learnt to be a part of a disciplined system, whereby in a three-and-a-half minute song I had to do everything that I could think of. The learning helped me a great deal when I started playing with Western musicians. Also, being a classical Indian musician, I believe in improvisation and spontaneous creativity, hence, when it comes to playing film music I find myself in shackles. Mostly, the music composed for a film cannot be changed once it has been put together. It is difficult to come to terms with the idea that if in the second verse of the song you feel like interjecting a certain rhythmic idea, you cannot. There is a whole orchestra playing and you have to adhere to what has been preset for you. That, I think is what often makes it difficult for an Indian classical musician to work in the film world. Also, I have been too busy playing at concerts and travelling. I do about 140 shows a year, and that doesn’t leave me with much time. Nowadays, I believe producers are not sticking to one music director for a movie; instead, they are going ahead with multiple music directors for an album. Maybe, now it will be easier for me to do one song in an album.
 
 
 I have many young musician friends like Salim-Sulaiman, Vishal-Shekhar and Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy who are composing music for films and they often ask me for feedback on their music and compositions. The kind of work that they are doing is amazing. I think that film music directors in India are mutants, in a good way. Nowhere in the world have I seen a composer who is able to give an Indian classical song, folk song, a song with a jazz beat, rap or a hip-hop drum-based song — all this in one album. This is very unique. It is a talent which is unparalleled and I haven’t seen this anywhere in the world. So, I feel that today’s Indian film music will eventually set the tone for what the future of music might be.
 
 
  
 
