Coimbatore: Heritage walks, birding and cleaning drives marked the sixth day of the Coimbatore Vizha in the city on Wednesday. Around 100 volunteers from the CMS College of Science and Commerce, Bosch, Lemon Tree Hotel and city’s home guards participated in a drive to clean the Gandhipuram Bus Stand. The drive was flagged off by city corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan at 7:30am.  “The event started with a tree planting drive. The volunteers cleared around 10 bags of waste from the bus stand with the help of sanitary workers,” said C Kishore of My City Clean City, who had organised the drive. The volunteers will clean the Ukkadam Bus Stand and the railway station on Thursday and Friday, he said. As many as 50 students from the Bharathiar University, who participated in a bird watching event organised by the Coimbatore Conservation Group, surveyed the university campus. “They spotted around 50 species of birds. There was also an interactive session after the drive,” said R Mohammed Saleem, an ecological conservationist, who led the team. A heritage walk around the Town Hall area was held in the evening. It started from the Koniyamman Temple, went along the Clock Tower, Town Hall, Oppanakkara Street, Vaishyal Street, Raja Street and Five Corner, before reaching the Clock Tower again. “The participants learnt about the personalities, who lived in the area, who had contributed to the city’s growth and also about the history of the heritage buildings,” said Jagadeesan, a former epigraphist and organiser of the event.  The day came to an end with the inauguration of the International Balloon Festival at Sakthi Mills Ground in Pollachi. Three balloons were floated at the event, said Benedict Savio of Global Media Box, who organised the event.  “We have about 12 balloons, which 12 pilots from six countries will float everyday till January 16. We will conduct the event from 6:00am to 8:00am and again from 4:00pm to 8:00pm. We also offer balloon rides to the public in the evenings,” Savio told TOI.