Rajkot: The Rajkot Municipal Corporation’s (RMC) plan to beautify Randarda and Lalpari lakes on the lines of Kankaria in Ahmedabad has not gone down well with environmentalists and bird watchers.

 They fear that concretization and other construction will harm the birds’ habitat and disrupt the ecological balance. Close to 129 species of migratory birds are seen in these lakes during winters. 
 
  RMC plans to spend Rs 25 crore on the beautification project, which includes amenities like boating, riding, lighting and develop the area so people can get a new recreation spot. Gates will also be installed and a road will be constructed along with a cycle track as part of the beautification. RMC also plans to make sitting arrangements nearby and may shift some slum dwellers to beautify surrounding area. Plans are afoot to set up food stalls in surrounding areas. 
 
 A local bird expert Shamsher Singh said, “We fear that these two lakes will become like Ishwariya Park, where the number of birds have drastically declined despite assurance that natural activity won’t be disturbed. A fishing contractor was using firecrackers so that pelicans don’t come there and eat fishes.”
 
 Birds like Dalmatian pelican, Kashmir flycatcher, painted storks, black-necked storks, bar-headed goose, peregrine fa-lcon and others are found here. A similar proposal was moved when Vijay Nehra was municipal commissioner, but after opposition by environmentalists, work was halted. 
 
 Another avid bird watcher Ashok Mashroo said, “If boats and other water rides start, it would disturb the birds due to human interference. The waste generated will also adversely affect the environment. Lighting after evening could force these birds to move elsewhere.”
 
 Municipal commissioner Banccha Nidhi Pani said, “We will consult the nature lovers before going ahead with our plan. We have appointed consultant to give us the opinion and we will also check the route of birds where boating won’t be allowed. 
 
 Sources in RMC also said that several builders, who have land surrounding the lakes, are more than keen for beautification as this would help appreciate the prices.
 
 
