Nagpur: The seeds of Melghat surgical camps were sowed after well-known ENT surgeon Dr Madan Kapre observed a perpetual problem of Goitre in Korku tribes there.  In 1992, the club started serving the Korku tribes belonging to the remote hills of Satpuda. Surgeries were first performed on makeshift operation tables, and the camp was relocated to Chikhaldhara in 1993, owing to logistical benefits of a rural hospital located there. Today, the club prides itself in curing major and minor surgical problems, covering all types of general, ENT and ophthalmic surgeries of more than 3,700 Korku tribals. A programme was held by Rotary Club of Nagpur South Dist 3030 on Sunday to celebrate 25 years of the service. Forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, who was chief guest at the function, said that endeavour was a ‘Seva Yagya’.  “Humans were born for good deeds. This project is not just seva (service) but our own future arrangement, in case we are reborn as a Korku tribal,” he said.  Narrating the journey with a presentation, Dr Kapre said, “When I was only 26 years old, I was told to distribute ‘Lakshmi’ or else it will disappear. We have tried to extend a service above self. This was a challenge we just couldn’t refuse. That we managed to create an infrastructure 250km away from Nagpur, was unbelievable for most people,” he said. He thanked all those who have been a part of the project.  Amit Gokhale, president of the club, said, “What inspires us is that people in this club are from different professions, yet each of them has taken the opportunity to contribute for the Korku tribals of Melghat.”  Dr SM Patil was the Club president when the first diagnostic camp was held. Dr Kapre, who is chairman of the silver jubilee committee, said the surgical camps were started after Prakash Thosare from the forest department asked the Rotary members to conduct surgical and not just diagnostic camps. The first surgical camp was conducted at Semadoh. In an effort to provide better facilities to Korkus, the club constructed its own operation theatre under supervision of Ravindra Gandhe. Helped poured in from various individuals, leading to a full-fledged state-of-art operation theatre at Chikhaldhara.  Thyroid was made a part of the surgical camp in 2003. The camp has also helped train more than 400 surgeons from different parts of India. In 2016, the club started organizing satellite diagnostic camp, where patients mobilized by Ekal Vidyalaya teachers were screened before the main camp.  Forest department is an integral part of this activity as it takes care of transportation of Korkus from remote villages to the satellite camp as well as the main camp.  This endeavour is supported by Rotary Club of America, Rotary International and Rotary India.