 might not be a household name yet, but the young singer is slowly getting there. He was in Delhi recently to perform at  . When we meet him the following day, he is swamped by female fans in the lobby of his hotel, all asking for selfies and autographs. Even though the star cast of an upcoming film is nearby for a press conference, Darshan seems to be the cynosure of all eyes there. "It’s weird. I am just getting used to all this attention and love," he tells us. 
Delhi is one place, Darshan says, where he doesn’t mind staying for a whole month because of the amazing food here. “I love Delhi’s food. Even last night, after the concert when my team and I went outside, we were deciding where to eat and I told everyone I can come to Delhi and stay for a month just to eat,” he says, adding, “All of Delhi’s food is so mouth-watering that it is hard to pick favourites. I am still exploring this place, and I don’t remember places’ names. But so far, I have loved the roasted   that this place sells near Old Delhi, as well as the chhole-kulche that is sold on the roadside.”
 
  
  
 
 As per Darshan, the energy and enthusiasm of Delhi’s crowd is unparalleled. He says it is at times so infectious that you forget your own troubles and fatigue. The 23-year-old elaborates, “When I came here for the concert at Lady Irwin College, I was not feeling too well, so wasn’t sure if I’d be able to perform or not. But the moment I got on the stage and saw the people so excited, I went mad. Immediately, all the tiredness went away and I knew it would be a great show. That’s the thing about Delhi. The energy and excitement in the crowd is such that you feel charged up yourself. They are so involved in the performance. In other places, you have to tell the crowd to sing along with you. In Delhi, they do that themselves. That makes any performer feel good, because you know the crowd is enjoying themselves. At the performance, we even had a dhol, which is something we never do in a college show. But that was a reflection of how energetic Delhi’s crowd is, particularly the campus crowd.”
 
  
  
 
