SHILLONG:The state government on Monday said it is keeping an eye on the pollution of Wahumkhrah and   rivers, which flow through the city, and is coming up with mechanisms to check it. 

 Responding to a question by Khun Hynniewtrep National Awakening Movement legislator Adelbert Nongrum, urban affairs minister Hamletson Dohling said the government is aware that the rivers are polluted and is taking several steps to prevent it.
 
 "We have started fencing of the streams along strategic stretches to prevent garbage disposal. Households along the streams or tributaries were issued notices against direct discharge of sewage," Dohling informed the assembly. He added, "Garbage traps have been installed at six outfalls of the Umshyrpi stream and the same will be taken up for the Wahumkhrah river."
 
 "The infrastructure for garbage collection has been improved for the Shillong Municipal Board as well as for areas outside Shillong Municipality. With more efficient garbage collection, the disposal of garbage can also be monitored better, reducing disposal in drains, streams and other water bodies. All hotels and guest houses have installed effluent treatment plants as directed by the   and the Meghalaya Urban Development Authority," Dohling said.
 
 A case regarding the pollution of the Wahumkhrah was pending with the Kolkata bench of the National Green Tribunal and, therefore, the matter was sub judice.
 
 Nongrum had raised the issue of immersion of idols into the Wahumkhrah leading to pollution of the river. Opposition legislator   of   said several households along the river were directly discharging sewage into the waters and called for a total ban on such practices. The minister, while stating that 35 households were indulging in this practice, said the government would examine the matter. 
 
 He said that the   has identified several unauthorized constructions along the river and that seven CCTVs have been installed to identify habitual violators who indulge in dumping of garbage into the rivers. As of now, the water of the Wahumkhrah is fit only for irrigation and industrial purpose, he added. 
 
 
