NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday directed Delhi Metro Rail Corporation ( ) to   within four weeks  ,502.62 crore in favour of a subsidiary of   (RInfra) in a case over an arbitration order in connection with the Airport Express Line project.

 Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva allowed the plea of Delhi Airport Metro Express Private Limited (DAMEPL), seeking a directive to Delhi Metro to deposit with the court the amount, which is 75% of the arbitral award. 
 
 The court also allowed the release of the deposited amount to the lenders and promoters who had financed the project. “The said amount be deposited in the escrow account maintained with the project lenders within four weeks from today,” it said. 
 
 The project for the high-speed Airport Express Line received the final approval of the Union urban development ministry in April 2007. The project was to be implemented as a public-private partnership (PPP) model in which DMRC was to acquire land and construct all basic civil structures except depot buildings, while the balance systems — track, signalling, electrification, rolling stock etc — were to be the responsibility of the chosen bidder. 
 
 A consortium consisting of Reliance Energy-CAF JV was selected as the preferred bidder and on August 25, 2008, both parties entered into the concession agreement. According to it, upon termination, Delhi Metro was liable to deposit into an escrow account certain “termination payment” as defined in the agreement. 
 
 As per the concessionaire, it had completed the project with an investment of Rs 2,802 crore, which was funded with loans of approximately Rs 2,117 crore. In addition, the promoters of DAMEPL had contributed Rs 685 crore.
 
 DAMEPL, on May 23, 2012, pointed out in a letter that there were serious design and quality issues with the installation of viaduct bearings and that there were signs of girder having sunk at some locations. DMRC, on June 2, 2012, stated that detailed inspections and all preventive maintenance were within the scope of DAMEPL. 
 
 Claiming that Delhi Metro had not taken any step to cure any defect within 90 days from July 9, 2012 (the date of the cure notice), DAMEPL terminated the agreement on October 8, 2012 and asked DMRC to pay the termination amount.
 
 Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said, “Delhi Metro has clearly been found to be in breach of its obligations under the concession agreement. The termination notice has been found to be valid and the termination, by the concessionaire, has been found to be justified. Nothing has been brought on record to show that the view taken is not plausible.” 
 
 The court also said the arbitral tribunal had “specifically held” that there were defects in the civil works that were not cured and effective steps not taken during the cure period. 
 
 In December 2014, the then attorney general Mukul Rohatgi advised the government to release the termination amount “immediately” to avoid paying high interest in the future. If DMRC had gone by it, DAMEPL would have got 80% of the total debt ranging between Rs 1,500 crore and Rs 1,800 crore, a sources said. DAMEPL finally exited the project on June 30, 2013 and DMRC took over.
 
 DMRC refused to comment, saying it had not received the copy of the judgment yet.
 
 
