Preparations for the  , which begins from January 27, are on in full swing at the   on Shaheed Path. Stalls are being set up for the seven-day festival which will also have celebrity performances as part of it. 
"The mahotsav will be a week-long affair this time," informs RP Yadav, secretary Lucknow Mahotsav Samiti and Regional Tourist Officer. "The stalls will be put on all 10 days, though the first three days are dedicated to the UP Diwas. So, the celebrations will start from January 24 and conclude on February 2, with the mahotsav beginning from Saturday," he adds. 
 
 
  (L)   (R)   (BCCL)
 
 Apart from a car rally, the mahotsav will also have a fashion show, kavi sammelan and mushaira, which are part of the festival every year. There will also be an auto expo zone at the mahotsav this time. 
 To be held at the Awadh Shilp Gram in Gomti Nagar Extension on Shaheed Path, the celeb attractions at the mahotsav this year include   singer-composer Ankit Tiwari who will be performing in the Bollywood night on February 1, actor-politician   performing in the Bhojpuri night and Harrdy Sandhu and Harshdeep Kaur performing in the Punjabi night. "There are other performances also scheduled during the week-long celebrations details of which are being worked out," says Yadav, adding, "There will be around 330 commercial stalls, 450 handicraft stalls, 71 pavilions, 20 kiosks and 45 food stalls at the venue."
 Ankit Tiwari, who will be performing at the Lucknow Mahotsav for the second time this year is excited at the prospect. "It's always great to perform in Lucknow and mahotsav mein gaana is even better because it’s a festival of the city, The   crowd is so appreciative and the way they respond to my music makes it a pleasure to perform for them. I want to thank the government for giving me this opportunity to sing at the mahotsav again," says Ankit. 
 
  
  Ravi Kishan (BCCL)
 
 Similarly for actor-politician Ravi Kishan. Ravi, who recently performed at the Gorakhpur Mahotsav, is happy to be performing in Lucknow too. "Abhi kuchh hi din pehle maine Gorakhpur mein perform kiya tha aur bahut enjoy kiya wahan. Lucknow, I expect will be just as fun," says Ravi, adding, "I am grateful to the government for giving me an opportunity to perform at both the festivals in my state and I thank the people for their support and love."
 
