HYDERABAD: Early identification of hearing loss can help impaired children develop speaking skills along with normal hearing, revealed a new survey. According to the Cochlear India Survey, an estimated five-six children of every 1,000 newborns suffer from some kind of hearing loss but few parents are able to recognise the signs or know how to seek treatment.

 
  
 
 The Cochlear India survey was conducted with   in the lead up to World Hearing Day on March 3 to find out how much Indian mothers knew about hearing loss in their children. About 84% mothers believe that children should be actually tested for hearing loss at birth but only a 38% had their children screened.
 
 “The ability to hear starts much before birth. By 15 weeks, the growing child in the womb begins to hear sounds from the ‘outside’ world, including the sound of their mother’s voice, her heart beat and sounds from her digestive system as well. These sound cues and signals picked up during the first three years of life, when the brain is still developing and maturing, are crucial for a baby to develop linguistic skills,” said Dr  , Cochlear Implant Surgeon,   (KIMS).
 
 Former Australian fast bowler Brett Lee and Cohlear’s   ambassador whose son was diagnosed with hearing loss at the age of five opines that he was fortunate enough to restore his hearing at an early age and wonders about the million of children who suffer from this condition.
 
 “Early screening for hearing loss can ensure that children are diagnosed and treated early, allowing them to grow up into well adjusted adults,” said the fast bowler.
 
 Cohlear has supported the call for action on hearing loss with its “hearing awareness” campaign. Kerala has become the first state in the country to provide hearing screening for children in all government centres.
 
 The   has developed a tablet or computer-based data management software where real-time data of newborn screening can be recorded and shared with other institutions such as the   and medical colleges.
 
