Jaipur: While staying the state government’s notification allowing short-term permits for sand (bajri) mining on agriculture land, the Rajasthan High Court on Thursday issued notice to the government. The court directed the district collectors to form Special Task Force (STFs) and conduct raids on places where bajri is being used for construction and penalise the builders.

 The single bench of Justice SP Sharma issued the order on a petition by one Sanjay Kumar Garg.
 
 The court noted that bajri is being sold at various places and builders are using bajri for construction, although the sand mining activities have been closed by the Supreme Court.
 
 “The state government is directed to issue instructions to district collectors to form Special Investigating Teams (STF) and conduct raids at each site where bajri is being used. Fine be also imposed on the builders and personal accountability of the police officer of the concerned area shall also be deployed so that the black marketing of bajri could be curbed,” the court order said.
 
 The court said that despite the Supreme Court orders, mandating scientific replenishment study and environmental clearance as a precondition for excavating and mining of bajri, the short-term permits are being granted by state authorities to excavate and mining of bajri without any replenishment study.
 
 The court said, the very purpose of replenishment would be redundant if the agricultural land nearby river sites where bajri is available or in the agricultural lands can be excavated and mining activities are allowed.
 
 Sandeep Singh Shekahawat, counsel for the petitioner, said that the scientific replenishment study has been given statutory status by the ministry of environment and forest from the notification dated January15, 2016 as also by the apex court while passing the order dated November 16, 2017.
 
 He said, such action of the state government allowing mining activity of bajri without there being any scientific replenishment study is clearly contrary to the statutory guidelines. The next hearing of the case is May 30.
 
 
