MUMBAI: Mumbai surely knows how to welcome its champions. Just ask the victorious cricket teams that landed in tinsel town after annexing the 1983   and the 2007 World T20.

 How then could it be indifferent to the Under-19 team which arrived here on Monday afternoon after winning the World Cup? Of course, there were no dhol tashas and djs, but the Colts got a glimpse of life in the limelight.
 
 The Rahul Dravid-coached side, arriving after a stop-over in Dubai, were delayed by half an hour, but that didn’t dampen the mood of the 300-odd people waiting to welcome them at the parking lot.
 
 The India Colts, captained by   outplayed Australia by eight wickets in the final held on Saturday. And the   ( ) spared no effort to make the boys feel like heroes.
 
 MCA officials, honorary secretary PV Shetty and vice-president Vinod Deshpande were present at the airport, ready to welcome the players with garlands, sweets and bouquets.
 
 The MCA also called players of the Mumbai U-16 boys and girls teams to the airport. About 15 boys and five girls showed up, anxiously waiting to greet their local hero Shaw. Even members of this season’s U-14 Giles Shield-winning Rizvi Springfield team were waiting to meet their record-breaking alumnus. They were left slightly disappointed though, as Shaw, probably tired after a long flight, just posed with an Indian flag for a few seconds and then hopped onto the waiting bus while his teammates followed suit.
 
 The 18-year-old, just picked up by Delhi Daredevils for 1.2 cr in the recently held IPL auctions, did give a thumbs up once seated inside the bus, but was soon gesturing for it to leave for the hotel. He did however signal to a couple of his ex-Rizvi school mates that he would call them later.
 
 Mumbai U-16 girl’s team wicketkeeper Tanisha Gaikawad said they were excited to see the newly crowned champions.
 
 “These boys definitely inspire us. Winning a World Cup isn’t an easy task. Watching them win motivates us to play better. Throughout the tournament we followed them. Our Whatsapp group was buzzing whenever they were playing a match,” Tanisha told TOI.
 
 Batsman Suryansh Shedge, who represented Mumbai U-16 this season, said that Shubman Gill, who won the player of the tournament for his century and three fifties in the tournament, is a true inspiration.
 
 “I just like the way he conducts himself. Despite him being so young, he’s focussed,” Shedge said.
 
 The bus soon left the airport, followed by a full-fledged security team of five police jeeps. That though did not stop the crowd from continuing to chant ‘Indiaaah.... Indiaaah’.
 
 
