Trichy: City corporation commissioner, N Ravichandran, on Monday rubbished rumours of corruption claims against him, which were circulating on social media platforms for the past few days. The rumours, in the form of two audio bytes, which are being circulated on WhatsApp, in which one person, claiming to be a meat trader, can be heard talking to two alleged corporation officers in separate conversations, whether the commissioner would be ‘expecting something’ for renewal of a lease. One of the officers is then heard replying to him saying that the commissioner might expect it and asked the trader to hand over the ‘cover’ to him (officer), who in turn would give it to the commissioner. Further, the meat trader, identified as Abdul Azeez also spoke to another ‘officer’ who claimed that the commissioner would generally accept the bribe, but that the officer wasn’t sure about this particular issue. Denying this, the commissioner claimed that the entire audio was “made up” and that he was planning to handle the issue legally. “The corruption claims against me are totally rubbish. I’m being blackmailed. I’m not sure what renewal acceptance is being discussed about in the audio clip. We are planning to handle the issue in a legal manner,” Ravichandran said on Monday. He also added that “action has been taken against one of the officers, who was involved in the discussion in the audio clipping.” A source said that the said officer has now been transferred to the Srirangam zonal office of the corporation.  When TOI got in touch with Azeez, he claimed that it was indeed his voice in the audio clip and that the recording was from 2017. He alleged that he got a tender for a slaughter house and cattle shandy in 2016, but he was instructed by the corporation to relocate the place and the tender was reduced from two places to one. “A case has been pending in the high court regarding my tender issue. The WhatsApp message, which is being circulated, is from an interaction with some of the corporation officers in 2017. I came to this decision because I wanted justice – it was leaked by one of my friends. I even have a few more audio bytes from corporation officers from this year who gave the same answers as that of those in the leaked audio,” he claimed.