CHANDIGARH: Sandwiched between   village and the housing board flats, the   road in Sector 45-A is a parking nightmare for the locals, visitors, and shopkeepers alike. Slugghish traffic and logjams are common at the site almost all times of the day.

 The road is going narrower and narrower since the development of a residential-area park and the expansion of the motor market along the stretch. An overwhelming number of vehicles has come in from all directions.
 
 “This slim road isn’t designed to accommodate multiple rows of cars,” said  , a rickshaw-puller at the site. The road has cars parked haphazardly on both sides, in every imaginable corner. Shopkeepers and customers have occupied even its pavements.
 
 Motor mechanic   said: “Constant traffic to the big motor market brings in cars every minute, but the exit is too small. This road also connects to the residential streets of the housing board flats, where the residents have parked their cars. In this situation, one expects nothing but a gridlock.” 
 
 Adding to the chaos is the morning and afternoon traffic to three-four schools in proximity. “The traffic outside AKSIPS (Ajit Karam Singh International Public School), the Model School of Sector 45-A, The   in Sector 44, and St Stephen’s crawls from 2 to 3.30pm when parents come over to fetch their wards and cause gridlocks,” a shopkeeper said.
 
 A few residents from the housing board flats also say that even they get stuck in the haphazard traffic. 
 
 “Sometimes the traffic is so thick that we are scared for our children when they try to cross the road,” said  , a nearby resident. In the giant sprawl of the market, many car mechanics repair the cars on the road itself, aggravating the gridlock. The road has also been turned into an unofficial auto-rickshaw-stand along the metal barrier. “These 70-odd three-wheelers leave me no place to park,” motor-market shopkeeper   said.
 
 Local councillor   said: “Even when there was no park in Sector 45-A, the road was used as a parking lot. After the green area came up, the parking and traffic problems have increased. There is no further scope for expansion, which limits the de-congestion prospects. Commuter have no choice but to suffer.”
 
 In an earlier TOI survey, the residents had claimed that since a big number of cars came into the sector each day for maintenance work at these roadside shops, all the parking lots became packed very early. After that, the mechanics start the repair work on the roads itself, which crunches the space for regular traffic. Another issue faced by the locals is that the mechanics dump broken windshields in a corner of the road, and the shards damage the car tyre and injure walkers. A public park adjacent to the motor market has gone into a dilapidated state because of the garbage scattered all over the place. The children's play area now has broken swings and the park if filled with pools of stagnated, filthy water. 
 
 Ever since local people stopped visiting the park, outsiders have taken it over. They use the space to trash disposable glasses and plates.
 
  The residue of the wet garbage has made the road slippery and dirty. Stray dogs mill around the place for scavenging and charge at the two-wheelers passing by. 
 
 The children's play area in the municipal park now has broken swings and the park if filled with pools of stagnated, filthy water.
 
 
