Chandigarh: After five days of high-voltage drama that revealed bitter infighting within the BJP in the run-up to the mayoral elections, the official candidate of the party, Davesh Moudgil, is all set to become the next   of Chandigarh on Tuesday.

 With the rebellion by sitting mayor Asha Jaswal officially coming to an end on Monday as she withdrew her candidature for the post of the mayor as an independent and voting rights of nominated councillors remaining annulled, nothing can probably stop Moudgil from winning the top post.
 
 The ruling BJP has a brute majority of 20 councillors in the house of 26. The vote of the city MP (Kirron Kher of the BJP), who is an ex-officio member, will, obviously, also go to the party. The lone independent candidate and SAD’s only municipal councillor have also openly come out in support of Moudgil.
 
 Congress, on the other hand, has only four councillors and has no hope now that the Sanjay Tandon faction has been reined in. The BJP is divided into two groups — one headed by Tandon and the other by Kher.
 
 At a meeting called by the BJP Chandigarh president Sanjay Tandon, both the groups took potshots at each other. “Now, if somebody else will indulge in cross-voting, I will be directly accused by the members. You people (referring to the other group) defamed me and my other colleagues during the Finance and Contract Committee elections too,” said one of the councillors. Heera Negi of the BJP had lost the election of the Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) to Devinder Babla of the Congress last year. She belongs to the Kher group. Members of the other group too objected by saying that it is a fact that cross-voting took place in the F&CC polls.
 
 Fears of cross-voting were such that some of the members in the meeting even asked for any way they could show their votes after the polling, but senior leaders rejected the idea. “Since we are united and committed to clinch all the seats, we will ensure we win all the three seats with a majority of 23 votes,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 Besides all municipal councillors, city MP Kirron Kher and former city MP Satya Pal Jain also attended the meeting. Kher and Jain did not speak much during the meeting.
 
 On Tuesday, the voting process will begin at 11 am at the MC building in Sector 17. The results will be out by 12 noon. Sources said members of the BJP will gather in the building around 9.30am to plan the poll strategy.
 
 The mayoral poll will be held under the supervision of Chandigarh’s deputy commissioner Ajit Balaji Joshi. Since this time nominated municipal councillors are not going to exercise their votes, the proceedings will hardly take an hour to finish.
 
 
