COIMBATORE:  officials on Friday said the city should have a fire licence system in place like in Chennai, as there has been a steady increase in the number of high-rise residential buildings in the city.

 “Several high-rise residential complexes and gated communities are coming up in the city. But none of these buildings have a fire licence as the guidelines do not stipulate the same,” said a fire officer.
 
 Several high-rises in various cities were recently in the news after fire engulfed them, claiming many lives, besides destroying properties. “It is high time that the city also framed rules that make fire licence mandatory for high-rises. Chennai already has this in place,” said another official.
 
 According to the fire and rescue services department, the district had recorded 1,085 fire calls in 2016 out of which 5 were major fires and 23, medium fire incidents. Of the 737 fire calls in 2017, four were major fires and 13, medium fires. While 96 fire incidents were reported this January, such mishaps had gone up to 162 in February.
 
 When it comes to a high-rise, factors such as road width near the building, floor space index, set back area (around the building to ensure there is fire separation between buildings), adequate number of exits, concrete steps, water facility, sprinklers and fire alarms need to be in place. “The basic criterion is that within two minutes all the occupants should be able to escape from the building in case of a fire. And the building should be built in such a way that it has four hours of fire resistance,” said a senior fire officer.
 
 As per the rules, 55ft high building with a minimum of four floors is called multi-storeyed building.
 
  of   and former president of city chapter of  , the apex body of private real estate developers associations, said they have been following the rules laid down by both the state government and the local body. “We get a no objection certificate before the construction of the building and ensure all other clearances are received. But there is no policy of fire licence,” he said.
 
 Other builders said this rule was in place in big cities. “There have been several fire incidents in high-rises in Mumbai, Kolkata and other cities. Since the city is seeing a mushrooming number of high-rises, such rules will be useful to avoid mishaps in future. But all builders ensure most of these rules are complied with,” said another city-based property developer.
 
 
