While Bollywood saw a slew of original and entertaining movies like ‘Hindi Medium’, ‘Bareilly Ki Barfi’, ‘Newton’, ‘Shubh Mangal Saavdhan’, ‘Toilet Ek Prem Katha’, ‘Jolly LLB’ creating ripples at the box office last year, the music industry seemed to be a stuck in time warp.

 It was on a ‘re’ mode, which has nothing to do with the second musical note. Remixed, recreated and rehashed versions of old Hindi movie songs dominated the industry — right from ‘Laila Main Laila’, (‘Raees’), ‘Saara Zamaana’ (‘Kaabil’) to ‘The Humma Song’ (‘Ok Jaanu’). Music composers, however, feel positive about the new year as there’s a rise in new-age musical genres.
 
 
 
 Composer-singer-writer-performer   was among the few to score original hits in 2017. Hoping to innovate with genres, he says, “Simple melodies with minimalist orchestration never fails. While our music industry offers a variety of genres, I hope they go easy on remixes this year. Our (Vishal-Shekhar) plan is to create music, which we personally enjoy listen and dance to. Genre is defined by new creation and that is what I plan to explore.”
 
 
 
 Composer Mannan Shah feels that rehashing old hits is on its ways out. He says, “Filmmakers are already demanding original numbers for song situations now. This, will result in making melodious tunes. Whatever the genre, melody and quality of lyrics ensure a longer shelf life to a song. It’s really is time to get back to the basics!” Composer-singer   Cerejo adds, “Over the last couple of years there has been a degree of monotony that has crept into Bollywood music. In 2018, I hope to see a revival of melody in a big way.”
 
 
 
 Shakar-Ehasaan-Loy were on a hiatus in 2017 with no releases. However, the trio say that have been holed up in the studio working on material. This year is touted to be an exciting one for them. Loy believes that there is going to still be a spillover of pop and EDM. He adds, “Rock music is kind of on a backburner, so it would be nice to see some new groundbreaking rock music find its way up to the charts.” Clinton adds, “I'd love to see a bit more rock in Bollywood. I’m banking on the release of Vishwesh Krishnamoorthy’s film because he is an old school rocker at heart. I’d also expect that we’ll see a lot more EDM-influenced-pop in Bollywood this year. I am working on some rock material myself.” However, there is a segment that feel that electronic music might take a backseat this year. Says Jigar Saraya, “EDM won’t sustain any more — we have overdone it in a wrong way already.”
 
 
 
 The New Year will witness the emergence of new and interesting music styles too because composers are quite keen to experiment with different kinds of sounds. Composer-singers Salim-Sulaiman are exploring vintage music and electro folk music (will be lending electronic colours to traditional folk music) in their upcoming films. Says Salim, “For a film about two old men played by   and  , we are doing vintage music. It is a very interesting music style. We are going to make patriotic songs that will have a lot of angst and rebellious composition. Yet, at the same time it will have a distinct patriotic ring to it, and a hard-to-miss emotional and revolutionary flavour. The songs will be very diverse in nature. And for a Rajasthan-based American film, we will be recording folk singers from Rajasthan with electronics and scapes in the studio. I don’t want to name any genre here but it will be different.” 
 
 
 
 Jigar Saraya of the composer-singer duo Sachin-Jigar are busy doing the music for more than three movies this year. He feels that Bollywood music is in a transitional phase now. Jigar says, “I think our whole trend of remaking will continue as far as I know. In terms of original music I think more innovation can happen and it will happen. But the real success of innovation and new music and other things that composers want to try will start getting effective only later this year once the trend of remakes goes down.”
 
 
 
 Ehsaan sees India’s independent music finding its groove this year. He says, “Streaming and internet-based music has been in the forefront and has made the entire monetisation process and model of the current music scene different. It would be good to see money spent on pushing Indie bands and artistes, which will enrich the music industry. India’s only English singing reality show has done very well in bringing an audience who found Western music quite alien. An increase in music venues and promotion of music festivals is making the live environment in India dynamic and exposing audiences to myriads of new artistes.”
 
 
 
 
