NEW DELHI: With stressful days round the corner for those appearing for their Class X and XII board exams, Prime Minister   has penned a book detailing ‘25 mantras’ to help students treat examinations as a cause for celebration and not despair.

 In a book, ‘Exam Warriors’, the PM has urged students to see exams as a way “to compete with self ”. He has also asked youngsters to “embrace technology”, which   describes as “great teacher”, while ensuring adequate rest since “sleep is a great weapon”.
 
 The book was launched by external affairs minister  , who elaborated on the 25 mantras.
 
 Union human resource development minister   said the “book will find space in each household as it connects with millions of students, teachers, parents and grandparents in a non-political way”. The 193-page book, published by Penguin, has been presented in an interactive mode with activities, tearaways as well as a pledge not to cheat.
 
 Stating that the book was an attempt to “add to the debate and discourse around the importance of stress-free examinations…” Modi, in his ‘note from the author’, writes, “It is our collective duty to ensure that their (students’) childhood is not overshadowed by the burden of exams and the constant anxiety of ‘what do I do next?’” It also has two letters, to parents and teachers. In one, the PM writes, “You (parents) are your child’s best mentor. You know your child better than anyone else, having seen him or her grow up in front of your eyes. Thus, I would request you: always accept rather than expect.” He also advised parents against trying to realise their unfulfilled desires through their children.
 
 The PM called for teachers to teach their students how to appear for an exam in a “tension-free manner”, and that they should pursue knowledge and not marks. The book starts with the first mantra, “exams are like festivals — celebrate them”. 
 
 Here, he says exams, like festivals, bring the best out in a person. In a style that will easily connect with the young generation, the second mantra — “Exams test your current preparation, not you. Chill!” — tries to bring forth the fact that exams are not about “life and death”.
 
 The best way to deal with exams is to have a balanced life is what the book advocates as mantras 10, 11 and 12. The book also asks youngsters to discover themselves by stepping out of their comfort zone, getting involved in community service and travelling across India.
 
