HYDERABAD: In a move likely to anger environmental groups, the Telangana government has decided to resend a proposal to the central government seeking relaxation of eco-sensitive zones areas at   at Chilkur and two sanctuaries.

 While the current ecosensitive zone area for all three protected environment is 10 km, the state government is now contemplating to reduce it to one kmfive km, a move bound to anger environmentalists, who feel forested areas will be lost, specially at   wildlife sanctuary and Pranahitha wildlife sanctuary in erstwhile Warangal and Karimnagar districts respectively.
 
 The state government in 2015 proposed reduction of the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of three protected areas in 2015. But the draft notification expired last year due to a clause that mandates the entire process should be completed within 545 days.
 
  
 “Since the draft notification issued by   (MoEF) expired, the Centre has asked the state government to send the proposal again. We will send the proposals soon,”  , principal secretary of   department told TOI.
 
 
 
 Sources said the state government is keen on revising ESZ of national parks as this has become a major problem for taking up infrastructure projects.
 
 Under Environment Protection Act, 1986, polluting activities such as setting up industries, mining, crushing, use of hazardous material are prohibited. Activities like laying roads, commercial establishments, other infrastructure projects are regulated where the government has to convince MoEF on project’s necessity. But all procedures take years.
 
 The municipal administration department proposed an expressway along Musi which falls under 10km radius of Mrugavani national park. Due to ESZ it has to get the permission from the Centre. Revision of ESZ is necessary for Eturunagaram and Pranahitha too for irrigation projects.
 
 “To discuss Pranahitha sanctuary, a meeting was held in MoEF after draft was published in 2015. The Centre asked further information which was given. Now that notification has lapsed,” principal chief conservator of forest PK Jha said.
 
 Government sent revised proposal for   in August 2017 to enable carrying out Strategic Road Development Plan. It proposed to revise ESZ to 3-5 km radius, but this is pending with the Centre. Deer Park at   was also reduced to 1km radius some years ago.
 
 
