NAGPUR: Investigations by the crime branch, with help from   (NMC), have revealed that only 14 of some 60 illegal immigrants were actually registered in the civic body’s birth and death registry.

 Interestingly, Ruldasingh Gujjar (already arrested) registered the birth of six of his children between 2007 and 2013, claiming the children were born between 1991 and 1994. Two were registered as born on the same date (January 21, 1991), a third one after two months (March 21, 1991), the fourth on March 25, 1992, the fifth on October 15, 1993, and the sixth on July 30, 1994.
 
 Crime branch officials said some 15-20 of the remaining 46 birth certificates submitted for obtaining passports were fake. The remaining immigrants had submitted school leaving certificates to prove date of birth.
 
 Crime branch officials have obtained documents submitted by the 60 illegal immigrants for obtaining passport at the Passport Office. The cops then went to NMC and started verifying the birth certificates.
 
 Officials of NMC birth and death registration department searched for   of all 60 in their records. “Birth certificates of only 14 were issued by the department. Registration of three of these 14 was done on the basis of records sent by private hospitals. The remaining 11 were late registrations, and done on the basis of orders passed by executive magistrate or tehsildars. The remaining 46 names were not found in NMC records,” an NMC official told TOI.
 
 An official from crime branch said birth certificates of 15-20 immigrants were found to be fake. “Some had submitted attested school leaving certificates to obtain passport. Verification of these certificates is underway to check whether they too are fake, or on which basis schools issued the certificates,” he said.
 
 Sources from NMC said persons whose birth was not recorded in the civic body may have been from out of the city, and managed to forge documents proving they were residents of the city.
 
 Crime branch has also started investigation into the 14 birth certificates found in NMC records. “We have demanded written replies from concerned officials to find out on which basis the birth certificates were issued.”
 
 The tehsil office of district administration has also come into the picture. NMC has sought documents and replies from the tehsil office regarding the 11 cases in which birth certificates were issued on the basis of orders passed by executive magistrate or tehsildars. “There is no suspicious role of NMC in these cases, as these 11 certificates were issued after receiving appropriate orders. It appears applications seeking birth certificates were first submitted to NMC, but these names were not found in the records. The applicants then approached executive magistrate or tehsildars, seeking directives to NMC to issue them birth certificates,” an NMC official said.
 
 The crime branch investigation show all 60 immigrants had claimed to be from the city, as per documents submitted for obtaining passports. Around 11 persons, including an advocate, have been arrested in the case so far. Offences have been registered against 10 families from   in   for trafficking these persons as their children or relatives to the United Kingdom (UK) between 2007 and 2015. Immigration Enforcement International (IEI), a wing of the  , had exposed the case and sent a detailed report to crime branch in October 2017.
 
 
