AHMEDABAD: Data released by the   reveals that the 0.30% of   in the age group of 15-24 were found to be   The data reveals that   in this group was higher than in the 15-49 age group.

 Combined data for Gujarat, Daman and Dadra Nagar Haveli reveals that 0.19% of men in the age group of 15-49 were HIV positive while the number for women in the same age group was 0.18%. The data further reveals that in the age group of 15-54, the number increased to 0.24%.
  
  
 
 The officials said that in the 15-24 years group, prevalence was more than any other age group. Interestingly, in this age group, no female was found to be HIV positive. The data also reveals that these are the percentage of HIV positive women and men tested by groups of states or Union territories.
 
 The data further reveals that of the 0.48% married couples who are HIV positive only 0.04% were couples where both spouses were HIV positive. The data further revealed that 0.22% men were HIV positive with their wives being HIV negative. Similarly, in 0.22% it was the wife who was HIV positive while the husband was not HIV positive.
 
 The survey also brought to light the failure of the government to create awareness about HIV. According to the data released, only 69% of men and 43% of women were aware that use of condoms during sex can prevent HIV. Among men, Gujarat ranked 10 from the bottom when it came to knowledge of condoms and women were the fourth worst, better only than Bihar, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Nagaland.
 
 The data reveals the awareness of mother-to-child transmission (MTCT) of HIV/AIDS was very poor in Gujarat among women, Dadra and Nagar Haveli has the lowest awareness (16%) of MTCT, followed by Bihar (33%) and Gujarat (34%).
 
 The data further reveals that only 59% women were aware of HIV, while among 77% men had awareness about HIV. The data further reveals that only 1% of women had high-risk intercourse in 2015-16 while 6.8% of men had high-risk intercourse in same period. Also, only 23.6% women and men knew how to prevent HIV/AIDS and another 20% had comprehensive knowledge. Divyang Oza, the project officer of the AIDS Control Society said that teenage groups are the most affected and the most common mode of infection was sexual transmission. The second strongest mode for HIV transmission is blood transfusion. It also cannot be denied that many couples only use condom for family planning and are unaware that it can be used to prevent HIV. Oza further said that HIV awareness has to be increased, but it is a time-consuming process and while there has been an improvement, it is less than expected.
 
 
