HOSHIARPUR: Two men hailing from Haryana, arrested for the December 6 murder of a Punjab youth in Bengaluru, have revealed to the police that they were part of a gang of kidnappers and extortionists who lured their targets by promising to send them to  . The gang, once they had their targets in their custody, had been making their victims phone their family to pay ransom for their release. 

 Jind residents Paras Ram and Sumit, who were brought on a production warrant by Hoshiarpur police on Friday, have revealed that they were involved in the murder of a youth from Hoshiarpur. A resident of Kalyanpur village,  , left home on December 3, after his handlers had promised to send him to Canada and assured him that he could pay Rs 21 lakh to them on reaching there. However, he was found murdered in the outskirts of Bengaluru on December 6. “They revealed that Pali refused to phone his family for ransom, following which they beat him up so brutally that he died. They have given the names of three other members, Jhajjar resident Munish, Bahadargarh resident  , and a man they call Bhaijaan. These two dumped the body,” said Hoshiaropur SSP J Elanchezian on Saturday.
 
 The accused have revealed that one of two kingpins of the gang,   alias Pawan, is also from Haryana, while the second one, Rehman, is from Mumbai. The duo were produced in a court in Dasuya on Saturday and remanded in police custody for two days. “They have disclosed that they have 8-10 members and they lure Punjabi youth by promising to send them to Canada. Once the youth are with them, the accused take them to different locations in the country and extort money from their families,” said SSP.
 
 Mani, a youth of village Chak Sharif in   district, had earlier told the police and Pali’s family that he was released after he paid Rs 22 lakh. Mani had also seen Pali in the custody of the same people and had gone there after a local ‘agent’,  , also a resident of Chak Sharif village and related to Mani, had told him about the offer of paying money after reaching Canada. 
 
 Shelly has already been arrested and his questioning for six days did not reveal much. Another accused has been identified as George, who is also resident of Mumbai. 
 
 
