GURUGRAM:  , the first Indian woman driver to compete in one of the highest classes of   in the country, was in the city on Wednesday to cheer for girls who are trying to steer into the world of   that is still predominatly a male domain.

 The 17-year-old had come to the city as brand ambassador to witness the national finals of Red Bull Catch Up, an amateur go-kart tournament for women, organised on the occasion of International Women’s Day for those who want to follow their dreams in motorsport.
 
 Beginning her racing career from the age of nine at the tracks built at her Vadodara home, she drove into the national karting circuit as one of the youngest racers, competing in LGB Formula 4 (single-seater racing) till 2016. 
 
 Mira won the Formula 4 Rookie Champion of the Year award in 2017 and entered the big league of Formula Racing the same year when she signed up for the Euro JK Series to participate in the national racing championship.
 
 Mira has taken part in about 75 races at national and international levels so far.
 
 “People would say motorsports is still a male-dominated field. But, things are changing and women are increasingly competing with the men,” Mira said.
 
 About her journey so far, the young racer said, “I have racing tracks at my home in Vadodara. As a kid, I would manoeuvre large vehicles with ease there. My father was convinced that I could compete with the boys at the national level and encouraged me for the same.”
 
 Initially, she did face some hurdles and discriminations but her determination helped her drive past all those bumpy stretches. 
 
 “In the early stages, people were not able to accept a girl in motorsport. Those years were tough. My competitors would see me as a girl. But eventually they started considering me as a competitor too,” said Mira.
 
 Motorsport, she added, required technical knowhow and rigorous training.
 
  “This sport demands a lot of physical activity. A racer needs stamina to drive, to control the car. The technical aspect is not simple either. Anyone willing to become a motorsport racer must have a thorough knowledge of the car he or she is controlling,” she added.
 
 
