Nagpur: Renowned scientists from across the world including Dr Jayant Narlikar of IUCAA, Pune, would speak on the universe during the international world conference on ‘A Physical Universe’ organized by the Central India Research Institute and Nagpur University. The conference would be organized from February 25 to March 1 where the scientists would be presenting papers on a variety of topics including galaxies, black holes, gravitational waves, and India’s Mars mission, informed Sanjay Wagh, organizer for the event. The meet would begin with plenary talks on February 26 where Gayoung Chon, Hans Boehringer of Max Planck Institute, Germany and JinLin Han of Beijing, China will discuss X-ray data of galaxy clusters and how related theories are being tested by such observations. Ajit Kembhavi of IUCAA, Pune, will talk about ways in which artificial neural network is helping identification of galaxies and quasars in the observed data. On February 27, Narlikar will speak on how gravitational waves can arise in mini creation events of Hoyle-Narlikar theory and how this theory can be tested. Gravitational waves, space-time ripples as per Einstein’s theory are claimed to have been detected recently. Wagh will speak on how Einstein’s theory of curved space time is ruled out by the experiments and will discuss universal relativity that he claims to be the only fundamental theory of physics. Dr Oziewicz of UNAM, Mexico, will discuss ideas of theory of Doppler relativity and their connections with universal relativity. Dr Unnikrishanan of Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, will discuss some innovative experiments with direct bearing on ideas of relativity while Samir Mathur of Ohio state university, USA, will explain black hole information paradox and cosmology. On February 28, Martin Bucher of Paris University, France, will critically review well-known cosmic microwave background radiation and Dr Minami of KEK Japan will inform about satellite Lite Bird that is going to study the polarization of CMB. Devin Chricton of UKZN, South Africa, will review data analysis techniques for the South African HIRAX telescope, the hydrogen intensity and real time analysis experiment that is being commissioned soon. For the benefit of students and researchers, representatives of German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) will focus on research of opportunities in collaboration with the scientists from Germany. Alexander Von Hombolt fellow from the city will also deliver an appropriate presentation on the occasion.