NEW DELHI: On Wednesday, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation ( ) started   on the 10.5km-stretch between   and   elevated section of the upcoming 59km-long   (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar).

 The IP Extension to Maujpur stretch is part of the Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus to Shiv Vihar section of Pink Line, which is expected to be completed by June this year. The test runs on Wednesday were flagged off by Mangu Singh, managing director, DMRC.
 
 “During these test runs, the interface of the Metro train will be checked to ensure that there is no physical infringement with civil infrastructure during the movement of the train on the track and also testing of various subsystems of coaches will be done,” said Anuj Dayal, DMRC spokesperson.
 
 “The new signaling technology known as communication based train control (CBTC) will be implemented on this corridor and will undergo rigorous testing in stages,” Dayal said. “The response of the train at different speeds, its brake system and the interconnection with the operations control centre (OCC) will also be monitored during the trials. The behaviour of the track system and the over head electrification (OHE) will be checked repeatedly,” he added.
 
 The section from IP Extension to Maujpur consists of nine elevated stations — IP Extension, Anand Vihar, Karkardooma, Karkardooma Court, Krishna Nagar, East Azad Nagar, Welcome, Jaffrabad and Maujpur.
 
 “The trains for this section have already arrived and are stabled at Vinod Nagar Depot. This depot is equipped with four inspection bay lines and two workshop lines. Total 32 trains can be stabled in this depot,” Dayal said. 
 
 He added that to minimise the occupation of land, this depot was constructed with a double deck system, in which the stabling yard was created on both decks.
 
 This section has three interchange stations at Anand Vihar, Karkardooma and Welcome. The facility of interchange of Metro trains between Pink Line and Blue Line is available at Anand Vihar and at Karkarduma and between Pink Line and Red Line at Welcome. The Maujpur station is a four track one with provision of connection from Maujpur to Mukundpur, a corridor proposed in Phase-IV of Delhi Metro project. “This section consists of five special spans, including two steel spans over existing DMRC Red Line and railway track between Welcome and Shahdara,” he said.
 
 “Due to uneven twist and turns in this alignment, Delhi Metro had to construct as many as 10 curves on this stretch that passes through very congested areas like IP Extension, Anand Vihar, Welcome, Seelampur, Jaffrabad and Maujpur,” he said. “The work of building sharp curves requires great deal of engineering skills and several factors have to be kept in mind while designing special spans at turns and junctures,” he said.
 
 Dayal said that the section was one of the most challenging corridors of Phase III, with construction being completed by managing heavy traffic at various points on the Patparganj, Anand Vihar, Welcome, Jaffrabad and Maujpur. “The construction in running drain, land acquisition at Patparganj, Anand Vihar, Welcome, Jaffrabad and Maujpur also posed a bottleneck during the work,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 
