MADURAI The wife of a prisoner who suffers because of her marital relationship cannot be denied her legitimate right to have a child, ruled the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Wednesday.

 Acting on a petition filed by Meharaj, wife of Siddique Ali alias Sulthan, a 40-year-old life convict incarcerated at the   central jail for eighteen years, a division bench of justices S   and T Krishnavalli permitted the prisoner to go on a two-week leave to assist his 32-yearold wife in infertility treatment. The court also ordered the constitution of a committee to consider the possibility of providing conjugal visits to eligible prisoners.
 
 
 Brushing aside the prosecution’s opposition, the bench said that psychologists and psychiatrists believed that frustration, tension, ill-feeling and heart burnings could be reduced in a human being if they are allowed conjugal relationship. Conjugal visits strengthen bond and safeguard families from becoming dysfunctional due to prolonged isolation and lack of sexual contact.
 
 
 
 
 The court said, “It is also reported that there are innumerable cases of   in jail because of sexual intercourse between the same gender. This evil is happening because of deprivation of conjugal relationship for a prisoner.” Hence, it was the right time for the government to constitute a committee to consider the possibility of providing conjugal visit and provide the facility to eligible prisoners subject to precautions.
 
 The court pointed out that some countries recognised conjugal visits of the spouse as a prisoner’s right. When the prisons were overcrowded, providing place for it might be a problem, but the government had to find a solution. The inmates were entitled, if they wished, to give their sperm to their spouse for artificial insemination.
 
 In this regard, the bench also cited the saying of the first president of South  ,  , that no one truly knew a nation until one was inside its jails and a nation should not be judged by how it treated its highest citizens, but its lowest ones. “Being human beings, prisoners also would like to share their problems with their life partner as well as the society. Just because they are termed as prisoner, their right to dignity can’t be deprived,” it said.
 
 
