RAJKOT: Unsure about the amount of   water they will receive during the peak of summer season, the district authorities of Devbhoomi   and   have banned use of local reservoir water for irrigation. Authorities of other districts are also likely to follow with the same move.

 Devbhoomi Dwarka district has prohibited digging of new borewells, and has banned sale of water. 
 
 District collector J R Dodia told TOI, “We need the reserved water till July 31 as we are not clear about the quantity of Narmada water that we will get. There is no clarity. Whether it will reduce or be the same as we are getting currently is not clear. We have decided to reserve water in our reservoirs only for drinking purpose.” 
 
 A notification issued by administration recently stated, “There is a possibility that only Narmada water cannot meet the needs of drinking water and the quantum of water in our reservoirs is also less than the requirement and is reducing day-by-day. That is why it is necessary to keep the water reserved for drinking purpose.” 
 
 The district administration has prohibited use of water from Ghee Dam, Shihan Dam, Vartu-2 Dam and Sani Dam. It has prohibited drawing of water through pipeline or tanker from specified dams for irrigation or any other purpose. Authorities have also banned digging of new borewells in 500m periphery of reservoirs, besides sale of water from existing borewells and well without permission. 
 
 A similar notification was issued by Junagadh administration. The notification states, “There is limited water quantum in Narmada dam and Junagadh district is at the end of the pipeline network so it is not possible to get Narmada water according to the requirement.” So, the water in reservoirs will be reserved only for drinking purpose. 
 
 The administration has also expressed apprehension that in such circumstances, “there is possibility of water theft from the pipeline of group scheme and some people may distort water distribution management by breaking the pipeline.” The administration has warned of strict action against miscreants who try to break waterline or try to take water illegally. 
 
  has already reduced water supply in the city from March 1. It now supplies water for 15-20 minutes at the interval of every two days instead of the earlier frequency of every alternate day. Sources in Junagadh civic body said that people will have to prepare for more water cuts during peak summer season. 
 
 According to data available with the irrigation department there is 10 MCF (million cubic feet) water available in reservoirs of Devbhoomi Dwarka while those in Junagadh and   districts have 4,500 MCF water.
 
 
