NEW DELHI: In a major security breach ahead of  , an official vehicle of the Central Reserve Police Force ( ), with J&K registration, was stolen from its director general’s staff camp in south Delhi’s  .

 TOI has learnt that the theft, reported two-three days ago, has sent security agencies in a tizzy and a massive hunt has been launched to recover the vehicle, a Tata Sumo Victa (JK 02AW 5441). All toll plazas around Delhi, especially those on the way to Chandigarh and all the way to Jammu, have been alerted to keep an eye out for the vehicle. Cameras at tolls and gas stations are being scanned for clues.
 
 The theft comes at a time when security agencies have issued an alert regarding the possibility of a car, including a police or a military vehicle, being used as a vehicle-borne IED for a strike before January 26.
 
 Fearing misuse and a larger plot behind the missing vehicle, intelligence agencies are assisting the police in tracking it down. This time, the threat perception for January 26 is much higher as several heads of states are invited as chief guests.
 
 In his complaint, the driver of the vehicle said that he had parked the car at the main gate of the DG staff camp at night but found it missing in the morning. A PCR call was immediately made and alert messages were flashed across the city. An FIR was also registered. When contacted, senior police officers of southwest district confirmed the incident but refused to be quoted, saying the matter was extremely sensitive.
 
 Earlier in August, TOI had reported how a   quick reaction team (QRT) vehicle with flashers was stolen from south Delhi. The vehicle, attached to Tughlak Road police station, was found abandoned two days later after a heavily publicised pursuit by the cops.
 
 This time, the theft has direr implications as CRPF has been on the radar of Pakistan-based terrorists, apart from PoK & J&K-based terror groups due to the crackdown launched by security forces in the Valley. 
 
 Groups like al-Qaida and Ansar Ghazwat-ul-Hind led by Hizbul rebel Zakir Musa have called for attacks on police and military installations. Three days ago, Jaish terrorists had carried out a fidayeen attack on a CRPF training centre in Kashmir.
 
 Following the incident, Delhi Police and CRPF have conveyed to their subordinates that no department vehicle is to be abandoned even for a moment, sources said. All SHOs have been asked to ensure that vehicles attached to their police stations are parked on station premises. Personnel at barricades set up for R-Day and all beat officers have been asked to keep a lookout for the missing vehicle.
 
 Cops have also activated informers in the auto-lifting gangs in Meerut and Aligarh for tips about the culprits. CCTV footage from cameras installed in RK Puram is being scanned to ascertain the timeline of events. Locals have been questioned but there has been no breakthrough yet.
 
 
