PATNA:   MP Shatrughan Sinha, known as a bitter critic of Narendra Modi-led NDA government, lavished praise on the Prime Minister on Wednesday.

 “Proud moment for India and more so for Bihar. India's first high-speed electric locomotive, made in Madhepura electric locomotive factory in collaboration with French firm Alstom, was flagged off by the PM. A double treat for Bihar as a new bi-weekly Humsafar Express will ply between Kaithar and New Delhi. Proud moment for our friend and Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, the honourable PM and everyone who made this initiative possible,” the former Union minister tweeted on Wednesday, a day after a function at Motihari where Modi flagged off the locomotive and the train.
 
 Political observers attributed Sinha’s change of heart to the fact that his name found a mention on the invite for the Motihari function as a distinguished guest.
 
 “Sinha had earlier gone on record to express displeasure over not being invited to Patna University’s centenary celebrations on October 14 last year, which was presided over by PM Modi,” one political observer pointed out and added he had also sulked at not being invited to the three-day ‘Bihar Diwas’ celebrations organised by the state government in March this year.
 
 Sinha’s tweets earlier on Wednesday talked about the agreements between PM Modi and his Nepal counterpart on April 7 on a number of projects, including a crucial cross-border rail link between Kathmandu and Raxaul in Bihar.
 
 “We welcome and encourage cordial and friendly relations with all neighbouring countries, especially Nepal and laud the bold initiatives of our PM. Last week, it was a pleasure for India to host the Nepalese PM. The visit was a great success and led to many fruitful agreements,” read the tweet.
 
 The Patna Saheb MP had scaled up rebellion against his party over the past few weeks during which he met incarcerated   chief Lalu Prasad at   in Delhi on March 24 and his wife Rabri Devi and sons Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav at their Patna residence the next day.
 
 Sinha also left his party red-faced as he met West Bengal CM and   chief   in Delhi on March 28 and appreciated her efforts to bring together regional forces against the Modi government ahead of the coming assembly and parliamentary elections.
 
 
