Ludhiana: Another major fire broke out in one of the city’s busiest vegetable markets, famous by the name of ‘New Sabzi Mandi’, near Karabara Chowk during the morning hours of Tuesday here.

 According to Shambhu Prasad, a vegetable vendor present near the incident: “A maintenance worker of the vegetable market first reported the flames at around 11.30am at a place where thousands of plastic crates were stored by shop owners in the vegetable market premises. Within no time, vegetable vendors called fire tenders, and at around 11.45am, fire officials reached the spot to control the situation. No casualty was reported during the fire incident, but more than 20,000 plastic crates for storing the vegetables were gutted, the estimated cost of which was around Rs 20 lakh.”
 
 Additional district fire officer Bhupinder Singh, leading the fire team, said just after hearing news of the fire in New Sabzi Mandi, five to six tenders rushed to the spot to control the situation. “The reason behind the fire was uncertain, but the owners of nearby shops said it could be averted, because some passer-by had thrown a burnt cigarette on the waste placed near the vegetable crates, used by owners of nearby shops to store their vegetables.”
 
 “Within 45 minutes, fire officials doused the flames that erupted on the plastic crates used to store vegetables in large quantity. More than 10,000 plastic crates were stored on the vacant space in the vegetable market, out of which more than half were gutted. Alertness of nearby vendors played an important role in saving vehicles from being engulfed in the fire, as these were also parked near the spot. A major reason behind the fire’s early control was that it broke out in plastic crates placed in an open store. Easy passage for the tenders was the second cause for its early control,” added Bhupinder.
 
 Shop owner Kamaljeet Singh stated: “A thick smoke erupted over the vegetable market in the morning hours, creating panic among shopkeepers, but the alertness of fire officials and vegetable vendors helped douse it within a few minutes, saving many lives and vehicles. This vegetable market is open from so many places, and it has become difficult to keep an eye on each person roaming inside the premises with bad intention. This fire was averted because someone played a mischief and threw a prohibited substance in the area,” said a shop owner.
 
 
