Chandigarh: The UT education department has now directly invited former students who wish to be part of the alumni reconnect programme after seeking the details of their prominent alumni from schools. TOI had reported in January when education department had for the first time made a move to connect with its alumni. Primalrily, the aim of the programme is building image of government schools and bringing the prominent alumni together who can in different ways give back to the school.

 Earlier, the department had sent a plan to schools to find and connect with their respective alumni but now the education department has sought former students who have passed out of city government schools interested to be part of the alumni reconnect programme to write to the department.
 
 The persons who have passed out from government schools of Chandigarh from 1990 to 2010 are invited to send the details to deputy director adult education by April 30. A detailed performa has been uploaded on department’s website.
 
 The department had asked schools to compile a list of 10 prominent alumni from field of law (judges or judicial officers), public services (IAS/PCS or other senior officers), medicine (doctors), engineers, academic, theatre, art, painting and marketing. The schools had also sent the details of their prominent alumni.
 
 The initiative is a brainchild of Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director of school education. “The initiative will help schools in getting in touch with their prominent alumni and will help in motivating students studying in those schools to achieve greater heights in their professional life,” said Brar.
 
 Private schools of Chandigarh have a strong alumni network and they have been helping the schools in various ways like conducting guest lectures, providing scholarships for weak students and offering jobs to students.
 
 Some of the government schools that have approached alumni did so for the meetings of different batches. The schools don’t have any proper database of their alumni.
 
 Rajinder Kaur, deputy director adult education, said, “We are advertising about the programme to ensure that all the former students who would want to be part of alumni reconnect programme should be covered under its purview. Public notices will also be issued in national newspapers. Approximately 500 ex-students have connected so far.”
 
 BOX | details to be sent to education department.
 
 1. Name
 
 2. Year of passing class 10/12
 
 3. Name of Govt. School
 
 4. Present designation
 
 5. Place of posting
 
 6. Contact Number
 
 7. E-mail ID
 
 NOTE | Detailed proforma for the same is also available at www.chdeducation.gov.in
 
 Box | alumni? Send it here
 
 adult2700745@gmail.com
 
 BOX | Some of the prominent alumni
 
 Rachna Singh, MLA of Surrey-Green Timbers, Canada
 
 Neerja Sekhar IAS
 
 Amandeep Singh (Indian Foreign Services)
 
 Dr. Sandeep Mohindra, Neurosurgeon PGI
 
 Dr Shiv Bagga Cardiologist PGI
 
 Kashish Mittal IAS
 
 Varun Roojam IAS
 
 kanwardeep Kaur IAS
 
 Alok Singh Scientist ISRO
 
 Manish Gupta (Vocational Student) AGM (RBI)
 
 Sujata Saunik IAS
 
 Mahavir Singh | Additional District and sessions Judge
 
 Dilraj Singh Bhunder | MLA
 
 Tanvi Garg
 
 
