PANAJI: Not many predicted what   would have achieved on the   field. He was an accomplished athlete till his mid-teens who broke records in Spain, and when he had his first training session, he couldn’t even trap the ball cleanly. Yet, Mendieta guided Valencia to two successive UEFA   finals, won the European midfielder of the year twice and was Spain’s costliest footballer when he moved from Valencia to Lazio. Now an ambassador for  , the former Spain midfielder speaks exclusively with TOI. Excerpts…
 
  
  
 
  
  If you ask me now, even though we didn’t emerge champions, it was a very positive thing for the club. It changed the perception how everyone looked at Valencia. When you compare (Valencia) to Manchester United, Barcelona, Bayern Munich, a small club managed to make it to the final twice. It brought a lot of positivity. If we won, it would have been better. Since then, Valencia have played (in the) Champions League only twice, and that tells you how difficult it is to play in the competition and make it to the final.
  
  
  
 
  
  When I look back, I think I played 11-12 games in the starting eleven and some as substitute. That’s too few minutes. When you go to a new country, you need time to adapt. (Zinedine) Zidane went to Real Madrid and took six months to adapt. You need time. I don’t think I had the opportunity to play regularly to adapt. It was difficult.
  
  
  
 
  
  That’s always going to happen. The television contracts in football are huge compared to any other business. Some players deal with pressure better than others. But personally, in my case, I never thought about the money. I wanted to perform well in every game, regardless of the money paid. Yes, I can imagine some players may be feeling the pressure.
  
  
  
 
  
  They actually are. It’s a fact. Everyone thought without a player like Neymar, Barcelona would struggle but they have done an amazing job. There is balance in the team. Neymar's departure has allowed Jordi Alba to play (and have) more presence in the actual game. (Andres) Iniesta is projecting more in attack; he has the freedom in those sort of areas. Rather than thinking what we will do next, Barcelona involved all the great players that they have in the team to replace that kind of player.
  
  
  
 
  
  Yes, 100 percent, you could tell. He was very consistent and persistent about systems, players; he knew everyone, he knew everything. He would talk about football 24 hours a day. With (former Barcelona coach) Luis Enrique, I wasn’t sure. Although he loved football and had passion, I would never think he would take to management. Pep, 100 percent, he was always made for coaching.
  
  
 
  Like anything in life, I could have achieved more, or done worse. I am very happy with what I did in football. As a kid, I always dreamed about being a professional and playing big games. As a kid I was an athlete. So, everything that I achieved, I never really imagined I could have done. Becoming a football player, and achieving what I have, surpassed expectations.
