NEW DELHI: Furious over the bad press his electric car manufacturing plant has received,   CEO   on Wednesday night threatened to start a Yelp-like service for people to rate journalists and editors on credibility.

 
 In a series of acerbic tweets, which attracted a flurry of responses and comparisons with American president Donald Trump’s attitude towards the US media, Musk announced that he was going to create a website where the public could rate “the core truth of any article and track the credibility score over time of each journalist, editor and publication. He said he was thinking of calling it “Pravda”.
 
 Tesla has been getting negative press for inadequate safety measures at its electric car manufacturing plant in the US.
 
 “The holier-than-thou hypocrisy of big media companies who lay claim to the truth, but publish only enough to sugarcoat the lie, is why the public no longer respects them,” Musk tweeted kicking up a tweetstorm just before midnight IST on Wednesday. He linked it to a news report quoting an analyst, “Negative headlines have increased substantially in the past month” and that “increasingly immaterial reports” about Tesla “have dominated news cycles.”
 
 Musk’s Twitter tirade trained its guns on traditional car manufacturers too. “Problem is journos are under constant pressure to get max clicks and earn advertising dollars or get fired. Tricky situation, as Tesla doesn’t advertise, but fossil fuel companies and gas or diesel car companies are among world’s biggest advertisers,” the 46-year old tweeted to his 21.8 million followers.
 
 When a journalist responded comparing him to Trump, Musk shot back, “Thought you’d say that. Anytime anyone criticizes the media, the media shrieks ‘You’re just like Trump!’ Why do you think he got elected in the first place? Because no one believes you anymore. You lost your credibility a long time ago.” This tweet earned the endorsement of   Jr, who quoted it and wrote: “This... So true!!!”
 
 More reporters and editors pushed back, saying the engineer turned business magnate’s reaction was ill-informed. “I’m paid by @edmunds to put the consumer first. We bought a #Model3, tell it as it is (good and bad) and millions of consumers respect us for it. We paid you @Tesla, not the other way around. Fix the car not the media,” the editor-in-chief of Edmunds tweeted.
 
 Musk’s choice of name for the rating service raised eyebrows. Pravda was the name of the official newspaper of the erstwhile  . In a later tweet, Musk indicated it was just a joke. However,   reports that according to the California Secretary of State’s website, one Pravda Corp is already registered in Delaware with the physical address of two other Musk entities.
 
 
