BHOPAL: Nawab Pataudi family’s claim over rights to fishing and ownership of about 800-acre of land that includes Bhopal’s Upper Lake is held up in a technicality.

 Pataudi family laywer Rajesh Pancholi said,   Municipal Corporation submission in the on-going MPHC case has seconded the erstwhile royal family’s claim over large sections of the water body, but finalisation would come after a satellite assisted survey.
 
 BMC efforts to construct a retaining wall along VIP to Khanugoan have also been challenged by the royal family. The EME canoeing training centre at Khanugoan has also been objected, said lawyer Rajesh Pancholi. An earlier judgement of the MP high court directed the government to pay compensation to the Pataudi family for the 14 acre of land acquired for construction of VIP road.
 
 “Title holder of the land is not a dispute anymore. As per merger agreement, parts of the Upper Lake is listed as private property of the last Nawab. BMC has raised a technical objection over demarcation of the Upper Lake. It can be resolved using appropriate technology including satellite mapping,” said Pancholi.
 
 The royal family lays claim to a large chunk of Upper Lake, suggesting it to be a part of the merger agreement of 1949 between last ruler of Bhopal State, Nawab Hamidullah Khan and Union of India.
 
 Earlier in 2016, in a letter to MP government,  's power of attorney holder identified Upper Lake khasra numbers 8, 80, 38, 39, 41 and 44.
 
 However, the area in question does not include Boat Club. “We are seeking fishing and other rights. Over the past two years, BMC has restrained my client from allowing any such activity. We have also objected to the illegal construction by the BMC like the retaining wall along Upper Lake,” said Pancholi.
 
 Pataudi's laywer said that government should refrain from carrying out construction of retaining wall and proposed   around Khanugoan. Upper Lake accounts for around 40% of drinking water source for the state capital.
 
 
