Ludhiana: Amid uproar over differences among the local leaders over fielding of candidates for the coming MC elections, the state leaderships of Aam Aadmi Party ( ) and the Lok Insaaf Party on Monday have decided to form a 13- member committee to look into the issue of allotment of tickets for the aspiring candidates.

 The committee comprising members of both parties will also scrutinise the aspirants and recommend the names to a five-member committee for a final decision.
 
 The decision was taken in a meeting held in Chandigarh on Monday. Senior leaders clarified that there was unanimity that both parties would contest the polls together.
 
 District president of AAP Daljit Singh Grewal said committee would start scrutiny from Tuesday onwards and the candidates would be announced after the final nod. “We never wanted to break the alliance and it was only due to “anti-alliance” activities of some   leaders that we were forced to highlight everything at the state level,” he said.
 
 Differences had come to fore between the local leaders of two parties after AAP leaders had alleged that LIP leaders were announcing the candidates without a decision regarding seat sharing.
 
 The LIP leader and local MLA Simarjit   said it was the prerogative of state heads to take decision regarding alliance and state heads have decided to contest the polls jointly. “In next one week, we will be finalise everything and candidates who can assure victory will get tickets,” he said.
 
 The committee members included Daljit Grewal, Ahbab Grewal, Darshan Singh Shankar, Suresh Goyal, Rajinder Pal Kaur and Kultar Singh Sandhwa from AAP and Parminder Singh Soma, Arjun Singh Cheema, Randhir Singh Sivia, Baldev Singh Pardhan, Vipan Sood Kaka and Jaswinder Singh Khalsa.
 
 Meanwhile, the AAP MLA from Jagraon Sarabjit Kaur Manuke has also been included in this committee and she will convene the meetings of both parties. The members will discuss the probable candidates and finalise the names.
 
 These names will then go to the five-member committee, which include Sukhpal Khaira, Bhagwant Mann, Aman Arora, Simarjit Bains and Balwinder Bains for a final decision.
 
 Meanwhile, sources revealed that heated arguments were witnessed during the meeting and leaders levelled allegations against each other for breaking the coalition rules by announcing the candidates even when nothing had been decided. The state leaders, however, intervened and announced that both parties will contest the MC polls in alliance.
 
 State general secretary AAP Ahbab Grewal said the differences would hopefully be resolved now as joint committee has been formed. He said now candidates will be announced after discussion at least. 
 
 
