 once famously sang, ‘The times, they are a-changin’. For  , chairman of the diversified Mahindra group, it’s certainly time for a metamorphic change. The change, though, will not ride on forecasts based on extrapolation of data, but on what he calls “leaps of faith”. The 62-year-old Mahindra, who finds himself at “crossroads for the first time in over 25 years at M&M”, feels urban cities will be “a living hell” if new cars are added at a rapid pace. He feels the future will see an explosion in sale of SUVs and recreational cars for inter-city driving, while electric two-wheelers and shared mobility will dominate the space within cities. As he forges partnerships with   and shared mobility companies like Scoot in the US, Mahindra compares himself to a “kid in a Lego toy store”, who is trying to predict “mega-trends” in order to work out a vision for mobility in the future. Excerpts from an interview with TOI:

 
 
 After spending a quarter century in the auto industry, it’s the first time that I see it is at a crossroads. The industry is now faced with choices, which are like leaps of faith. The leap of faith is that we don’t know what the future of mobility is going to be… companies now have to change from seeing themselves as carmakers to mobility companies…the earlier practice of prediction based on extrapolation of data is gone. Nobody understands how the world will change. The only way you can plan for the future is to have scenarios. You have to have the courage to take a leap of faith on one of them.
 
 
 
 
 We are finally catching up with the world and getting world-class roads and highways. Given the number of new roads being built, given this love of driving and determining our own destinies — something like the Americans — you are never going to see a complete decline in individual automobile ownership. As far as individual and recreational ownership goes, you are going to see a boom in India. And, that is going to be largely dominated by SUVs. Thank God, my grandfather, grand uncle actually (uncle Keshub Mahindra’s father), got us into SUVs. It’s the best decision he made.
 
 When it comes to intracity, you need to look at car penetration. Penetration in India is around 20 per 1,000 (people), China is at 90 per 1,000, and the US is 750 per 1,000. Even If India gets to 90, as China is today, cities will be a living hell. I am saying that categorically. That cannot be India’s goal… So, we must encourage shared mobility, because it is a matter of life and death. For newer cities, what you need is a very solid mass-transit network, and then it would have last-mile solutions, which would be all-electric. Among all electric city cars, some will carry cargo. By and large, these will be shared mobility options.
 
 
 
 The largest shared opportunity is actually two-wheelers… So, you have got a major Metro system, you have got pods at the end, small cars but electric (which can be) shared or rented. And in streets, there will be a lot of personal mobility, which will be through e-bikes where people can even exercise (can also pedal) if they switch off the power. And so, it will make for a healthier society. You have got threewheelers, which are not necessarily cabs, but they could be like Peugeot Metropolis (three-wheeled scooter). My future is almost like looking at Beijing of 1980s, when it was infested by cycles. The only minor difference is that now they will all be e-bikes.
 
 
 
 
 Shared ownership will always mean that you will never sell as many cars as might have been sold without shared mobility… if people are sharing cars, then obviously you are going to sell less cars than would have been sold otherwise. But it doesn’t mean that you will have a deceleration in private cars, it just means that the growth will be lower.
 
 
 
 
 When Maruti came with Gypsies, we were told we are going to die. When (Tata) Sumo came, we were told we are going to die. Even at the time of   and the Innova, we were told we are going to die. I have heard such predictions for the last 15 years. The best thing is to prove people wrong. I would say it’s not wise to bet against us. I joke around by saying, “Lage Raho, Mahindrabhai”. We don’t give up.
 
 
 
 
 
