BEIJING: Smartly dressed policemen and women watch the flow of people, including legislators, at the gates of the   of People in Beijing through specially designed glasses that are powered with face recognizing technology. The hall is the scene of the ongoing parliamentary session, and the police are on the lookout for possible mischief-makers.

 The glasses, which are linked to databases of criminals, pick up facial features and car number plates of people and vehicles flowing into the hall and the entire Tiananmen Square area where it is located.
 
 Those going through facial scanners include legislators, diplomats and journalists, who attend the meetings of the National People’s Congress, the Chinese parliament which is in session till March 20.’
 
 “This year, security at the two sessions has some freshly-baked 'black tech' coming online,” read the state-run   newspaper, using the comic-book term in China for futuristic surveillance gadgets.
 
 What the glasses pick up is immediately matched with a large “blacklist” maintained by the security agencies. Special forces, both in uniform and in civilian clothes, are kept ready to act as soon as the computers make a match between the what is picked up and the “blacklist”.
 
 Besides the glasses, cameras planted at different places around the Great Hall have been upgraded to capture, analyse and compare suspicious faces in around two seconds, the state-run daily said. They are powered by a system called " " - which has a national database of blacklisted individuals.
 
 The paper mentioned a   film, which is set in a futuristic society, to demonstrate the extent of technological advances made in the security area in China.
 
 “The plot of sci-fi film 'Minority Report' is now basically becoming a part of daily life,” the newspaper added.
 
 “(China's) leadership once felt a degree of trepidation over the advancement of the internet and communication technologies. It now sees them as absolutely indispensable tools of social and political control,” said  , co-director of the China Media Project, a media studies research project at the University of Hong Kong.
 
 Human rights groups have expressed concerns over the enhanced use of technology in surveillance because it might put political dissidents in greater danger. It can also be used to watch the movements of foreign diplomats, businessmen and journalists to gather precious intelligence.
 
 But Wu Fei, chief executive of LLVision, the manufacturer of the lenses, told   that people should not be worried about privacy concerns because China's authorities were using the equipment for “noble causes”, catching suspects and fugitives from the law. “We trust the government,” he said.
 
