HYDERABAD: In a huge relief to students, the   has decided to slash the project burden by 50%. The rule, to come into force beginning the 2018-19 academic year, will be implemented under the continuous and comprehensive evaluation ( ) system that was introduced in 2012.

 The decision follows the department’s observation about the main objective of CCE — which was to “improve learning, based on teacher’s continuous feedback” — being lost in the existing system with students often copying from “guides and textbooks in order to complete projects, experiments and written reports.”
 
 
  
 “At present the projects given in schools are mostly downloaded from the internet and are cut and paste type from other sources,” the department’s draft report proposing changes to the CCE system (a copy of which is with the TOI), read. Stressing how these projects should “include observation, collecting information and analysis” it added that these should not be submitted merely for assessment.
 
 Apart from halving the project time — to two projects per subject per year as against the earlier four — the department has also cut down on the time students spend on subject-related activities/experiments. From four per subject per year, it has now been revised to two exercises per subject every year.
 
 These measures, the report stated, will lessen the pressure on students as many of them, at present, are unable to finish the work on time.
 
 Welcoming the move, teachers said that the reduction in project load would have far-reaching benefits. “Right now, they spend long hours in finishing this work (projects and exercises). If reduced, they will find more time to concentrate on honing other skills,” said Shabbir Sheikh, president of the Telangana Private Teachers Forum.
 
 Further, with the lack of basic literary skills such as reading, writing and comprehension emerging as major challenges for effective implementation of the CCE, the department has decided to enhance the focus on these areas and “prioritise” the development of these skills.
 
 In order to emphasise on reading, it has also agreed to cut down on the number of exercises that are found listed at the end of every lesson in the state government-published textbooks. This is particularly true of subjects such as science, social studies and EVS. “Appropriate guidelines will be issued in this regard. This reduces the burden among children and their time with written works and focus will be shifted towards reading the textbooks after school hours,” read the draft report.
 
 Reiterating that CCE’s primary aim is to improve learning among children, the department’s report stated that the revisions suggested, are in line with that ideology and are expected to fill the gaps in implementation that existing CCE norms. The school education department has sought suggestions from the teachers on the draft policy by May 15, 2018.
 
 
