Coimbatore: Reliance Mutual Fund (MF) has suspended sales in ‘Reliance Small Cap Fund’ with effect from March 26.  The fund will however continue to receive SIP (Systematic Investment Plan) investments of up to Rs 1 lakh. Reliance said that increasing the size of the fund will be detrimental to the interest of unit holders. Reliance Small Cap Fund’s AUM (assets under management) stood at Rs 6,613 crore at the end of February. “It is decided to limit the subscription of units in Reliance Small Cap Fund, an open-ended equity scheme, through suspension of subscription via fresh/additional subscriptions/switch-ins and limit the subscription through Systematic Investment Plan (“SIP”) or Systematic Transfer Plan (“STP”) or such other special product, with effect from March 26, 2018 till further notice,” Reliance MF said in a notice-cum-addendum.  “The limit on subscription of units has been done with a view that increasing the size of the corpus of the scheme further, may prove detrimental to the interest of the existing unit holders,” it said. “Fresh/ additional subscriptions/switch-ins will not be allowed/ accepted at any point of time till further notice, from the effective date,” the fund house stated. Several small and mid-cap funds had earlier stopped fresh inflows into their schemes citing lack of buying opportunities as the stock markets rallied to new life-time highs on a regular basis. DSP BlackRock MF stopped fresh inflows in ‘DSPBR Micro Cap Fund’ in February 2017 stating that large inflows would be detrimental to the interest of unitholders. Mirae Asset MF restricted inflows into ‘Mirae Asset Emerging Bluechip Fund’, its flagship mid-cap scheme, in December 2017. ‘L&T Emerging Business Fund’ also restricted inflows into its scheme in the same month. “Fresh registrations through “SIP” or “STP” or such other special product shall continue with each installment being less than or equal to Rs 1 lakh till further notice,” Reliance MF said. “The aforesaid restriction will not affect SIP or STP or such other special product registered prior to the effective date and the unitholders under ‘Dividend Reinvestment and Payout Option’ of ‘Direct Plan’ and other than ‘Direct Plan’,” it said. “All other features, terms and conditions pertaining to the above mentioned scheme shall remain unchanged,” the fund house said.