NEW DELHI: Even as   and   brainstormed for an hour on Tuesday to find a solution to the ongoing sealing drive together, they criticised   for skipping the meet. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia even alleged that BJP was in support of the drive so that the local traders could be destroyed and the road cleared for foreign direct investment. 

 “BJP ran away from an earlier meeting with the CM, saying it was being held in the media, which it was not. It has been proved that BJP is supporting the sealing,” AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai said. 
 
 Promising that the AAP government would do everything in its power to stop the drive, Rai said his party would launch a stir if BJP continued to create hurdles. 
 
 Congress agreed to support AAP in Parliament on the issue. Sources said AAP leaders were pleasantly surprised by Congress offering it support. AAP’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh has already moved a private members’ Bill to this effect. Fearing that the drive might intensify in the coming days, Maken advised Kejriwal to put up the issue strongly in Supreme Court through a senior lawyer. AAP agreed to follow Maken’s advice. 
 
 Though BJP skipped the meeting, it still took credit for its outcome. Leader of opposition in the assembly, Vijender Gupta, said the idea to approach the monitoring committee was given to AAP by BJP. In a message from Mauritius, Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari said, “Since now the Delhi government has announced its decision to go to SC for the notification of 351 roads, it is clear that the AAP government neglected its duty in protecting the traders from sealing.”
 
 Tiwari also took a swipe at Congress: “In the name of all-party meeting, two faces of the same   (Congress and AAP) sat together and praised each other’s efforts. It’s ironic that the AAP government, which irresponsibly handled the sealing drive, is praising Congress that’s originally responsible for the drive.” 
 
 Tiwari blamed Congress for Delhi’s “unplanned development”, which in 2006 resulted in SC intervention and a sealing drive. “The then central and state government of Congress brought out an underdeveloped master plan, which stopped sealing but complicated the situation,” Tiwari said.
 
 He added that BJP met the monitoring panel twice. 
 
 
