The mercury levels have been soaring across the State with maximum temperatures already shooting above what they were last year. Stepping outdoors has almost become a daring attempt. Those who are working outdoors, such as traffic policemen, security guards and construction workers, cannot use the sweltering heat as an excuse though, as their livelihood depends on the job.
 However, many have devised their own ways to beat the heat. We ask a few from Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram how they are staying cool this summer:
 
 
 
 
 
 The fact that we have varying seasons within a year in North India makes summer in Kerala a different and tiring experience. When compared to Bihar, I feel the heat more here as I work in the scorching sun. The people, however, provide drinking water intermittently which is a huge relief. Being a construction worker, I cannot complain about the climate as it is my bread and butter. My fate is such that I have to keep working, come rain or shine. If we had choices in life, we wouldn’t opt for such a physically demanding job. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It’s summer, so there is no escape from the heat. Due to the rise in the mercury level, the noon shift begins at 3pm instead of 2pm. So, we work under the sun from 8.30 am to 11.30am and then from 3pm to 5pm. People can drink water or stand in the shade away from the sun when they want but what will the plants do? The heat has affected them severely too and so I don’t mind watering them despite the adverse climate. We cover our heads and face using a towel and then wear an umbrella hat to be safe from heat strokes. We also apply sunscreen and wear long-sleeved shirts. We can’t skip our work as it includes daily watering, plucking weeds and mixing the soil with necessary fertilisers. There are trees in the garden, so when it gets worse, we seek shelter beneath them.
 
 
 
 
 
 I have been working as a traffic warden for more than eight years. There are more than 20 wardens in the stretch that extend up to MG Road, to maintain the paid parking system. My duty is scheduled from 8 am to 2 pm and like every year, the heat keeps increasing and becomes unbearable after noon. We have to be present near the road all the time to check vehicles encroaching footpaths and roadside. To escape the scorching heat, I wear a face mask and had to buy a full sleeve inner wear like those used by sports persons. These precautions protect from the ultraviolet (UV) radiation exposure which can cause skin issues.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Mine is a part-time job and my shift starts at 2pm every day. It was easy for us in the past few months to deliver orders no matter how far the locations are; but now it’s draining as after two or three deliveries, we get tired. I suffer from heat exhaustion and I have tanned considerably. The sweat and humidity make it worse as we wear helmets during the deliveries. Sometimes we catch fever and have excruciating headaches when we get back to the outlet, which is air conditioned. The shift from the heat outdoors to the cool indoors also causes stress to the body. If we get caught up in a traffic jam, that just piles on the misery. We drink lots of water and wear full-sleeved innerwear to protect our skin; yet the discomfort persists. One of my colleagues recently recovered from conjunctivitis.
 
 
 
 
 
 Compared to last year, it’s definitely much hotter this time. It’s tough for those who work outdoors and we have to keep ourselves hydrated. Our duty locations change day by day. In Thiruvananthapuram, the extremely hot zones are Pettah, Vellayambalam, the Chackai stretch and Thampanoor, and the temperature is at its peak between 12.30 pm and 3 pm. I have made it a point to carry a water bottle from home to sip from during the breaks. I have been in service for many years so I am used to the sun’s heat. I am not much bothered about tanning.
 
 
