BENGALURU: Daily commuters will soon be spoilt for choice when it comes to modes of travel. Taking a cue from cab aggregators like Ola and Uber, 12 autorickshaw and taxi driver unions in the city are planning to launch an app for both autos and cabs — bTag.

 While Uber introduced its auto service on Tuesday, the newly launched app-based cab aggregator Namma TYGR — backed by former chief minister   — is also planning to rope in autorickshaw drivers.
 
 Having access to facilities like cashless payment, GPS-enabled tracking and hassle-free rides, many commuters have switched to app-based services. With Uber being the latest entrant in the auto market, traditional auto drivers are in for stiff competition. 
 
  
  
 
 Ola, which has been running autos in the city since 2014, recently adopted an aggressive marketing campaign for the service since it is incurring less operational losses compared to cabs. This could have prompted Uber to relaunch its auto service, which was suspended after a pilot project in 2015.
 
 Some auto drivers say app-based services have helped reduce dead mileage. “Earlier, plying around the city looking for customers used to burn a lot of fuel, drilling a hole in my pocket. But that’s not a concern any more. However, some customers cancel the ride when the vehicle has almost reached the pick-up point,” said S Manjunath, an auto driver with Ola, adding that he will log off from the app if the company reduces incentives.
 
 Uber’s foray into the market is expected to intensify the competition. For instance, Uber auto’s introductory fare of Rs 25 for 4km is cheaper than Ola’s Rs 29 for the same distance. It is also lesser than the government-fixed minimum auto fares of Rs 25 for the first 1.9km and Rs 13 for every subsequent km. However, Ola auto charges a convenience fee of Rs 10, while Uber levies Rs 15 as pick-up charges.
 
 
 
 
 Basavaraju N L, founder of B-transport solution LLP, which is planning to launch the bTag app, said: “We have already enrolled nearly 9,000 auto drivers from 12 unions, including Adarsh Autorickshaw and Taxi Drivers’ Union and   and Taxi Union. We are also in talks with CPM-backed   to come on board”.
 
 “We will personally know each driver, which will ensure the safety of passengers. There will be no hidden charges or surge pricing,” he said, adding the app will be launched in two months.
 
 General secretary of Adarsh union, C Sampath, said: “We have decided to sign up for bTag since Ola and Uber have been betraying drivers. The new app will ensure a steady income to drivers who have been struggling after the entry of taxi-hailing aggregators”.
 
  of Namma TYGR said: “We will soon rope in all auto drivers into our platform. We have not decided whether to enrol them on the existing app or to develop a new one exclusively for them”.
 
 
 
 
 “I’ve stopped taking traditional autos after the entry of app-based cabs. If cabs are not available, I opt for Ola auto since I don’t need to argue with the driver,” said  , a regular commuter in Indiranagar. 
 
 
 
