NEW DELHI: At a time when India is struggling to raise the standard of umpiring, questions have been raised on the Indian cricket board’s ( ) process of selecting umpires at the lower level. TOI has learnt that there have been a few irregularities in conducting the last exams for Level 1 umpires held in June last year.

 The Level 1 examination was held for two batches on two different dates. The first exam was conducted for umpires mostly from Mumbai, Karnataka and Vidarbha on June 7 in Mumbai and Bangalore while the rest — comprising north, TN, Kerala and Andhra — took the test on June 10 in Indore and  . BCCI declared the results in the first week of January and it has emerged that only one out of 35 candidates from the second batch managed to pass. The pass percentage from the first batch stands at 42.
 
 TOI has accessed the question papers, which have remarkable differences in standards. The question paper on June 7 had 29 direct questions while the other paper contained 39 questions which largely revolve around hypothetical situations.
 
 For instance, the second batch was asked: “No. 3 and 11 are batting. On the 5th ball of the over, No. 3 hits the ball and starts running, hoping to take two runs and keep strike. However, the ball is brilliantly fielded. Seeing that two runs are not possible, from half pitch, after crossing, he and the No. 11 run back to their original ends. As  , what will you do?”
 
 In contrast, the first batch was mostly asked about basic regulations of cricket such as willful obstruction of a batsman, spirit of the game, weather and light and criteria for LBW. Interestingly, some of the candidates have alleged deviations in the theories proposed by faculty members in the workshops held prior to the exam at the different centres.
 
 TOI has also learnt that Vineet Kulkarni, who was removed from ICC’s panel of international umpires in 2016 and has been kept away from marquee domestic matches, was roped in to set the question papers.
 
 BCCI had conducted a retest for the candidates who scored in the range of 80-84 for the previous batch of umpires in 2013. The programme was stalled due to the legal shenanigans of the board since the IPL spot-fixing case came to the fore.
 
 BCCI acting president CK Khanna, who also happens to be the chairman of the board’s umpire’s committee, said that the matter needs to be discussed at length. “As it is the umpiring committee has not met for over a year now. We need to call a meeting soon and look into the matter,” Khanna told TOI.
 
 The feedback of umpiring in the domestic circuit too has copped a lot of flak from the teams. “Even this season, the standard of umpiring has been mediocre. The captain’s report has been brought back this season. Once the season gets over, the board needs to take stock of the situation. Anyway, the captains and coaches meeting is on March 12,” a top BCCI official told TOI.
 
 
