PUNE: The state’s maiden attempt at hand transplant could not yield the desired result following the recipient’s “hyperacute rejection” to the transplanted limbs at Pune’s Command hospital here on Sunday.

  The condition of a 33-year-old serving soldier, who had undergone the 15-hour double hand transplant, became critical after the surgery, and the surgeons were forced to remove the transplanted limbs to save his life.
 
 Despite the failure of the procedure, the operation was a landmark one. This was the first time a hand transplant surgery was performed in the state. In the country, till date, there have only been five successful hand transplant surgeries, the first of them being at Kochi’s Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences in 2015.
 
  
  
 
 Moreover, the donor — an unemployed youth declared brain dead — gave a new lease of life to several other organ recipients.
 
 Talking about the surgery at the Command hospital, Aarti  , the transplant coordinator of Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), said, “The recipient slipped into hyperacute rejection. His condition became haemodynamically unstable. The surgeons had to reverse the surgical procedure.”
 
 “As per our information, the soldier had lost his both hands during a Naxalite attack in   in November 2016. He had enrolled for transplant at the Command hospital four months ago,” Gokhale said.
 
 The hand transplant surgery began at 3 am and continued till 6 pm on Sunday.
 
 Though the crucial hand transplant did not work out, several other patients received live-saving organs from the same donor. The donor, a 29-year-old man, had sustained grievous head injuries following a fall on January 11 and was initially rushed to the Sassoon  . He was later moved to the Ruby Hall  , where he was declared brain dead at 11.30 am on Saturday (January 13). When counselled, the man’s family members consented to donate his organs including his heart, liver, kidneys and his hands.
 
 “The donor is from a lower-middle-class family. He used to work for a private firm, but had been unemployed for the past four months. He fell from a wall and developed a subdural haematoma, which is usually associated with traumatic brain injury,” said Surekha Joshi, the transplant coordinator of Ruby Hall Clinic.
 
 Following the norms of the ZTCC — the body that oversees organ donation and allocation of donated organs — the donor’s liver, heart and one of the kidneys were allocated to patients at the Ruby Hall Clinic. His other kidney was allotted to a patient at   Memorial Hospital. And his hands were allocated to a patient at Command hospital.
 
 The retrieval of the organs began late on Saturday at the Ruby Hall Clinic.
 
 The donor’s heart was transplanted into a 45-year-old man from Chandwad (Nashik district) at Ruby Hall. One of the donor’s kidneys went to a 25-year-old man suffering from renal failure. Meanwhile, the liver was transplanted into a 28-year-old woman, who has been suffering from a rare liver disease, called Budd-Chiari syndrome, for the last one-and-half years. The condition involves clotting of blood in the hepatic veins that are supposed to carry blood out of the liver.
 
 
