BENGALURU: Citizens thought their power woes would start only in late summer, but they’re already being forced to deal with outages almost daily. Despite energy minister D K Shivakumar’s frequent assurances that there was no dearth of power in the state, the ground reality seems different. 

 For the past few weeks, areas like Devanahalli, Koramangala, Chamarajpet, Murugeshpalya, Nagarbhavi and Begur have seen residents suffer from daily outages lasting a minimum of two to three hours. 
 
 
  
 
 While   officials said Thursday’s   were caused by fallen poles, feeder problems and faulty trunk cables, they attributed the ongoing outages to   (KPTCL) work and overloading of transformers.
 
 Helpline of little help: Complainants
 
 Summer showers that lashed some parts of the city on Thursday were enough to flood the Bescom helpline. As of 8pm on Thursday, the utility received 3,631 complaints. While some people were able to register their grievances and get a docket number for their complaints, many complainants said the helpline (1912) is almost always unresponsive and even the WhatsApp number provided is not of any help.
 
 Anil Reddy, a resident of Chikkabegur Gate, said not being able to contact anyone on the helpline prompted him to open a Twitter account to approach Bescom.
 
 “For the past four or five months, we have been experiencing power cuts almost every day for at least two or three hours. After trying to call the helpline a few times a week, I decided to take to Twitter because the authorities are at least responsive on that platform, even if the problem is not resolved. When contacted on phone, often they say they are unaware of the problem or there is a feeder issue,” he said.
 
 Saying that power cuts were especially hard on his brother-in-law appearing for II PU exams, Reddy said they often experience power cuts between 5pm and 8pm. “How are students expected to study,” he asked.
 
 Tapan Kumarrouta, a resident of SR Layout, Murugeshpalya, said his locality has been witnessing outages for the past 15 days at a stretch.
 
 “I have already raised a complaint seven to eight times in the past fortnight. Power cuts last a few hours daily. On Thursday, in a response to my tweet, a Bescom official told me that tweeting would only help get that day’s complaint resolved, while long-term issues would have to be raised on the helpline,” said the employee of a private firm.
 
 Even residents of central business district (CBD) areas like Rhenius Street, Lavelle Road and D’Souza Road have been suffering from irregular and unannounced power outages over the past week.
 
 College student Pratulya Singh said while he was used to power cuts on alternate days for up to two hours, on Thursday there was a 12-hour outage. “They kept changing the deadline. Power went off at 7pm after it started raining. Though officials claimed it would resume at 2am and then 5am, it was restored only at 7am on Friday. While Twitter is the best way to reach Bescom, problems are not resolved properly,” the Koramangala resident complained.
 
 N Jayanthi, general manager (customer relations), Bescom, said work on the new distribution automation system (DAS) was causing outages in certain areas. 
 
 “During summer, consumption rises drastically. When more power is consumed, the load has to be shifted from one transformer, which can have up to 150 feeders attached to it, to another. Consumption has especially increased on the outskirts, while the number of stations remains few,” she said.
 
 
