PATNA: Budget carriers IndiGo and   have expressed interest to operate flights from   to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru, Union civil aviation secretary R N Choubey told   deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi at Delhi on Wednesday. 

 “IndiGo and SpiceJet have submitted bids for commencing commercial flight operations from Darbhanga to Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru under second bidding round of Udan scheme. We have been told that flight operations can commence in six months if the state government provides land for development of terminal building at Darbhanga,” SuMo said.
 
 Fare is capped at Rs2,500 for one-hour flights under the ‘Ude desh ka aam nagrik’ or Udan scheme to connect unserved and underserved airports.
 
 The airstrip at Darbhanga is owned by India Air Force (IAF) and a civil enclave or terminal building along with ATC (air traffic control) tower, parking apron and cargo among other facilities are required for commercial flight operations.
 
 The state government is also keen for commercial flight operations from Darbhanga as well as Purnia airstrips, both controlled by IAF.
 
 “The state government is already acquiring 50 acre land at Purnia airbase with funds to the tune of Rs21 crore for development of civil enclave and other facilities. However, funds to the tune of Rs455 crore are required for acquisition of 50 acre land at Darbhanga owing to higher land acquisition cost there. Accordingly, the state government is asking   (AAI) to reduce the area of land asked for development of utilities at Darbhanga,” a senior state civil aviation directorate official told TOI. 
 
 Purnia and Darbhanga airbase apart, the official said airstrips at Bhagalpur, Kishanganj, Birpur, Valmiki Nagar, Rajgir and Gopalganj are also proposed to be developed under Udan scheme. “As per the guidelines of Udan scheme, central and state government would provide subsidy to the operators in 80:20 in order to ensure financial viability of short-distance flight operations. We are expecting 9 to 20-seater aircraft with single or double engines to operate under this scheme,” the official said.
 
 There are 21 airfields in Bihar out of which three are under the   (Bihta, Purnia and Darbhanga). Nine other airfields are in the category of ‘Kaccha and abandoned’ airfields, including those at Jehanabad and Ara. The remaining are under the category of metalled runways having reinforced cement concrete (RCC)-made airstrips.
 
 AAI team to visit Patna airport on Jan 24: A high-level team of AAI and Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) will hold meeting with the state government officials at Patna on January 24 on decongesting the terminal building at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport. Sources said the deliberations would be held for increasing x-ray machines at the entrance and check-in area along with plans for expansion of terminal building in order to avoid congestion at the city airport.
 
 
