PATNA: Ophthalmologists in the city have suggested people to be very cautious with their eyes as nearly 75% of   cases go undiagnosed in the state. Glaucoma is a disease that damages eye’s optic nerve, which even leads to irreversible blindness.

  secretary Dr Sunil Kumar Singh said the disease is one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness. “Three out of every ten patients who visit me in a day are afflicted with glaucoma. The main problem with glaucoma is that it is asymptomatic and a ‘silent thief of vision’. People are unaware of their own conditions and progression of the disease. When they do perceive vision loss, the eye has already undergone nearly 70% damage,” he said.
 
 People suffering from myopia, having a history of blood pressure, familial history of glaucoma and diabetes have suffered the trauma of eye or are above the age of 40 and undergo frequent changes in eye power are high-risk patients for glaucoma and should undergo frequent eye check-ups.
 
 One in every ten patients who visit the eye   at   Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) suffers from glaucoma. “We need to create more awareness about the disease. Most of the patients visit doctors at the end stage when the disease becomes untreatable,” said Dr Nilesh Mohan, associate professor and in charge of the eye bank of Regional Institute of Ophthalmology at IGIMS.
 
 Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) eye OPD receives nearly 10-15 patients of glaucoma every day. Head of the PMCH eye department, Dr  , says they conduct three initial tests to deduce glaucoma. “We test the intraocular pressure, peripheral field vision constriction and cup-disc ratio. Glaucoma often produces additional pathological cupping of the optic disc. The normal ratio is 0.3mm. If the ratio exceeds 0.6mm, then glaucoma is confirmed,” he said. 
 
 Even if two of these three initial tests are positive then glaucoma is confirmed, Dr Sinha said and added that if a family member is suspected or found positive for glaucoma, it is advised for other family members to undergo tests for glaucoma.
 
 
