Playback singer   is an excited woman. After all, the singer has been churning out some hit songs to her credit. Maalavika was known as Carnatic singer, until she broke the tag after she sang the hit number, Dang Dang under D Imman’s composition in Manam Kothi Paravai. Her popularity soared after the release of the song. 

 “After the song, wherever I travelled, people called me ‘Dang Dang Maalavika’. I was scared to sing the folk number in a recording studio as I come from a Carnatic background. But   sir made me feel so comfortable. I was completely into Carnatic music until 2010, after which I took part in the singing reality show Super Singer.”
 Maalavika has sung a number of cine songs, including a few hits like Karuppu Nerathazhagi from Komban, Gum Zaare from Kadavul Irukaan Kumaru. “When I was a part of Super Singer, people used to point out the influence of Carnatic music in my cine songs, but I didn’t realise it then. Now, when I compare what I used to sing to what I am singing now, I can find a huge difference. I am happy with the progress.”
 
 So, what kind of preparation does she undergo for Carnatic concert and a cine music concert? “When you are preparing for the former, you have to be quite spontaneous. You have to prepare the different ragams and talams. You need to understand that you will be the only person on stage singing for hours together, which is not the case in cine music concerts. While performing a cine music concert, you have a set track and there isn’t much scope for improvisation.”
 
 Maalavika was in the top four of another reality show contest, Indian Idol, this year. “It was the best experience I ever had in my life. It was challenging as I didn’t know the language. In the first audition, there were nearly 20,000 people, but I was directly put into top 24. Meeting different people from different culture, I learnt a lot in few months,” says Maalavika.
 
 When quizzed about her online covers, she says, “My first cover was Ey Sandakara from  . I had a good producer for the video and it came out really well. I got a lot of appreciation from music directors Imman sir,   sir and actor   as well. Some of the music directors these days do research on   before approaching a singer for recording. Gone are the days where a singer has to produce a demo. A lot of youngsters who don’t have the right opportunity are able to reach music directors today by doing such covers. It has 
 become a huge platform to exhibit your talent.” 
 
