, but before that let us prepare you for the the most-awaited colourful festival of India.
 
  "While you enjoy smearing your friends and family with gulaal, it’s imperative you are dressed in comfortable yet fashionable clothes to enjoy the festive spirit without any worries," says Sonal Abrol, Chief Operations Officer at  . So to help you through the   here are some fun and interesting tips and tricks for dressing stylishly yet comfortably as told by Sonal.
  
  
 
  For those who prefer comfort dressing, you can take a cue from B-town's Deepika Padukone, and pick a slightly loose t-shirt in bright shades of yellow, orange, red or even purple, and pair it with hot pants, like she did in the Bollywood Holi anthem ‘Balam Pichkari’. To add a little twist to this, you can go for a fitted t-shirt and team it up with culottes or even funky pajamas! This will make sure all colors showered on you stand out, and the added benefit is that you won’t feel too hot! Make sure you don’t wear transparent, clingy clothes as they tend to stick to the body once you get wet, making most people uncomfortable and call for unwanted attention.
  
  
 
  
 is essentially the best material for this season as it keeps you cool irrespective of how harsh the Sun is especially with the late Holi this year around. Keeping that in mind, you can opt for a comfortable cotton dress in vibrant colors or prints. This ensures that even if you get drenched, the dress will still look pretty on you and not a slouch. Flashback to Alia Bhatt’s Holi outfit in ‘2 States’, you can pair a white sleeveless kurti with a   or even shorts and dazzle in the most brilliant combination for this season. However, if you want to minimize your skin’s exposure to the colors and the sunlight, the safest bet is to wear a full-sleeves short kurta with   or a full-sleeves long kurta with  .
  
  
 
  If you are in the mood for some ethnic Indian wear, go for the classic combination we saw yesteryear superstar Rekha gracefully flaunt in the song ‘Rang Barse’. This one will always be in trend for Holi! So you can pair a   with leggings and if you’d like to add a little twist to it, you can team it up with a  ! Also, the colors of Holi are best showcased in white and give out a happy vibe. Even a white kurti with comfy-jeans is a good option as it makes you look stylish yet relaxed.
  
  You can sport a block-print scarf or a tie-dye dupatta with any of the above mentioned styles and outfits. To make a funky fashion statement, you can tie an ikat-print stole around your head and in turn, also save your hair from the damage.
  
  So this Holi, don’t shy away, rather go out and get drenched in the colors of joy with Saiesta, because you have the 
