By Makarand Khatavkar

 Mentoring is as old as our civilisations. Both Greek and Indian mythological characters sought them to overcome dilemmas. The guru-disciple tradition of our culture implied that one guru could impart all the knowledge required to lead a successful life. However, this old paradigm has changed today. We need multiple   to navigate through life and work successfully. The complexity of today’s world is too overwhelming for only one mentor to crack the code. 
 
 Selecting the right mentors is more important than one might imagine. Time, resources and physical energy are limited and there is so much to learn. An individual’s most creative years are between the ages of late-20s and mid-50s. Lifelong learning is not discretionary any more and there is significant pressure to do well in different areas of life. Prioritising what you want to accomplish is more important than before. A person may have different mentors for   guidance, hobbies, relationships and/or spirituality. Although each person may need different mentors depending on his/her distinctive needs, I believe that each one of us needs a minimum of three mentors all the time. 
 
 Lack of self-awareness is a fundamental reason for career derailments and other failures in life. Our deep-rooted biases, blind spots and ignorance of negative behaviours make self-awareness difficult. We need heightened awareness to deal with professional and life challenges. Research has shown that self-awareness is a key factor associated with   and career success — especially with leadership and managerial roles. Hence, your first mentor must be someone who will keep you honest with yourself. This mentor can be an ex-manager, a senior or even a trusted friend. Brutal honesty and tough love is priceless. 
 
 Your second mentor must be younger to you. The reason is simple: Younger generations are more open to new experiences and diversity. Their perspectives can be refreshing, energising and stimulating. Learning from younger generations, often referred to as reverse mentoring, was advocated by Jack Welch. It is widely accepted as a best practice at the workplace across the globe, and can be replicated on a personal level as well. Younger mentors can help you stay on top of information technology, master social media, understand the aspirations of Gen Y and millennials. Experienced leaders use younger mentors to bridge generational gaps, for strategy formulation and even to bring about cultural change. 
 
 Your third mentor must guide you through various stages in life. As professionals, we start our careers as individual contributors and eventually graduate to managers of others, managers of managers and finally to managers of leaders. Each successive stage brings forth unique challenges of managing self, teams, peers and, finally, key internal and external stakeholders. Concurrently, we also go through different life stages from young adults to middle-age professionals to senior professionals. Common issues like burnouts, redundancy, middle-age crisis, relationship and health issues affect us. A seasoned mentor, who has already walked the path you are now trying to walk, can help you navigate through this space successfully. 
 
 Organisations typically offer mentoring programmes to their employees. However, these programmes are single-mentor programmes. To make sense of an incredibly complex world, companies must encourage learning from multiple mentors. Without pertinent feedback from diverse perspectives, outlooks and vantage points, people don’t grow. Research shows that we learn best from others when we work with multiple mentors and role models who excel at one thing rather than looking for the whole package in one person. In addition, while internal mentors undeniably add unique value to mentees, organisations must also encourage employees to work with external mentors as well to bring an outside-in perspective. The process of choosing mentors must be democratic — a mentee must have freedom to choose mentors of their choice. 
 
 Good mentors provide insights, feedback, support and expertise. Appoint mentors with different personalities, backgrounds and credentials. Their diverse viewpoints will help mentees develop their personal perspective to deal with this complex world. Mentors may or may not be able to teach you, but they nonetheless facilitate learning. In today’s virtual and well-connected world, information is freely available but insights are experiential. There is no one right way to solve problems of life and career. This is why multiple mentors and role models are more important than ever before.
 
 The author is group head — HR,  . Views are personal
 
 
