ZIRAKPUR: Due to the absence of a proper dumping site at  , all vacant land near the residential societies has turned into a giant trash can. 

 It is hurting the residents to live at the mercy of the sweepers, who collect this garbage at leisure. Asked why they don't dump the waste away from the residential areas, they say they don't have a place to do it. Complaining about the situation, the residents recalled instances when for a week, the door-to-door collection of garbage had stopped because the sanitation workers did not turn up in any residential society.
 
 The municipal council has no created a place outside the societies to dump the town's garbage. A visit to the area revealed slums and empty plots around Zirakpur's residential areas where a mountain of waste was dumped. The residents also accused the civic authorities of not making a policy of fixing the garbage-collection rates, due to which they have to pay the collectors what they demand, even if the latter dump the waste somewhere nearby.
 
  north resident welfare association chairman   said: "Until the municipal authorities earmark an area as dumping zone, this issue will not be resolved. For the past five years, it has become a practice with the sweepers to dump all the garbage at vacant spots in Zirakpur. When the residents protest, they find another place." Confederation vice-president Pardeep Sharma said that the residents had raised the issue with the council many times but all in vain.
 
 Recently there was complaint from the Royal City that garbage collectors had not turned up at this housing society for an entire week. It had left the residents facing a lot of problems in the disposal of garbage. Zirakpur resident   said that the old   road that had been widened a year ago "is turning into a garbage dump gradually on both sides, which needs to be checked".
 
 Social worker  , a resident of Zirakpur's VIP Road, said all vacant surroundings of the area had turned into landfills and the municipal authorities had turned a blind eye to it.
 
 
