HYDERABAD: At a time when the   (GHMC) is exploring ways to ensure financial support for various projects, the   standing committee has decided to procure iPhone X for all its 15 standing committee members. At a meeting on Thursday, the committee has sought approval for procuring 16 iPhones at a total cost of ?17 lakh. Sources said the 16th phone is for mayor  , who is the committee’s chairman.
 
 For the last two months, the committee members had been demanding iPhones for all corporators. However, realising that procuring iPhones for 150 corporators at a cost of over ?1.5 crore the committee members decided to extend the privilege only for themselves.
 
 The meeting held on Thursday was chaired by the mayor and the proposal for iPhones was unanimously approved. The standing committee is the highest authority in the civic body which approves all projects, developmental works and important policy decisions. The committee’s 15 members are elected by the corporators for a term of two years.
 
 The decision to provide iPhone X comes at a time when the civic body is facing a serious resource crunch for taking up various projects including the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), which needs ?2,700 crore, two-bedroom housing scheme,   river front development. It had floated bonds for ?200 crore a few months ago and approached the   for financial assistance for projects. It has been decided to over ?1,000 crore loans, through banks, for its SRDP project as the works progress. The corporation is mainly banking on property tax collections and building fee for salaries and taking up maintenance works.
 
 Interestingly, in 2014, the GHMC had proposed to purchase Apple iPads to all 150 corporators by spending ?75 lakhs. However, the proposal was cancelled after some people approached the court. Earlier, in 2012, the GHMC had given laptops, printers and scanners at a cost of ?90 lakh to all corporators which they were supposed to return to the civic body laptops after their tenure is over. However, many did not.
 
