KOLKATA: Officials in the food department at   have clarified that chilled dressed chicken and frozen processed meat products marketed by branded companies have not come under the purview of the ban on sale of frozen chicken and fowl announced by the market department two days ago. However, in the absence of a formal announcement or notice, confusion continued among both customers and sellers.

 
 Alarmed by the May 10 notice in which the market department stated that only chicken or fowl slaughtered live would be allowed to be sold at its markets and rule violation would lead to cancellation of licence, companies marketing chilled chicken and processed frozen products rushed to   for clarification.
 
 Faced with the possibility of legal action by affected firms against what was perceived as an arbitrary and discriminatory move — since the notice did not apply to private markets and malls — health department officials clarified the ban was not a blanket one.
 
 Ahealth department official told 
  that the market department ought to have consulted it before issuing any notification as it was not authorized to impose such a ban. “The idea of the ban has more to do with stopping illegal activities and than with punitive action. But we won’t revoke the order immediately,” said a KMC official.
 
 Arambagh’s Chicken manager Barun Bala said the ban notice did not specify chilled chicken that it and other companies sell. Chilled chicken, unlike frozen chicken, can be refrigerated for only a week. Beyond that, unsold chilled chicken is destroyed,” he said. On Friday, Arambagh’s Chicken put up notices across outlets assuring customers that chilled chicken was not banned.
 
 But the carcass scam and the rumours have affected the psyche of meat consumers, leading to a drastic slump in sales. “Why blame consumers if they are wary about purchasing chilled chicken? An average customer does not know the stringent quality checks we carry out on each and every chicken before it goes for sale. Vets check the health of the chicken before slaughter and microbiologists check them before packaging at Ilambazar plant in Birbhum,” said  , another manager.
 
 Such is the adverse affect of the scam that Dulal Roy, who had started a Haringhata Meat outlet in Khardah, has folded up the business after sales nosedived. “I understood there is remote chance of recovery from the slump despite the quality assurance that brand Harighata carries,” said Roy.
 
 Even sale of chicken slaughtered in front of customers has crashed. At   market, half the chicken traders are no longer selling. The rest manage to sell only 15% of the usual.
 
 
