GREATER NOIDA:   residents are not far behind their Noida counterparts, inso faras driving against traffic flow on the wrong side. 

 
 Most of the spots where wrong-side driving is rampant, are roundabouts and intersections, which are meant to engender traffic discipline. The urge to take short-cuts, coupled with lack of regard for traffic rules, leads to wrong-side driving and congestion.
 
 Lack of traffic police staff — there are no senior officers to manage Greater Noida, Dadri and Jewar — remains the biggest problem. “Because of staff shortage, Greater Noida was being managed by only one traffic sub-inspector. However, a traffic inspector will soon be permanently deployed here,” said SP (traffic) Anil Jha.
 
 Knowledge Park to  
 
 At the cut, leading from the road near   to Surajpur-Kasna road, all kinds of vehicles can be seen exiting Knowledge Park I and moving against the traffic flow towards the   roundabout. Mostly, these include young students on bikes and cars, auto drivers carrying students, faculty members, etc.
 
 Dr Maroof Ahmed, who was caught driving on the wrong side on Monday by TOI team, said wrong side driving reduces the distance to Jagat Farm by 700 metres. Otherwise, they have to drive on the other direction of Surajpur-Kasna road towards LG roundabout to take a median cut 500m ahead, return to the LG roundabout and proceed to Jagat Farm.
 
 Alpha roundabout
 
 At the roundabout between Alpha I and II, one mostly finds residents driving on the wrong side from Alpha II, by taking a short-cut along the Alpha sector road till the Ryan school roundabout, where the traffic merges with those going towards the roundabout from Alpha I. “There’s a lot of chaos here in the evenings, but commuters don’t care about the risks,” said an Alpha II resident. Parents ferrying children from Father Agnel school and   school, which are near the roundabout, also drive on the wrong side quite rampantly. Most of these commuters, who are headed towards Pari Chowk and Kasna, disrupt traffic coming from Surajpur, instead of taking the parallel service road that joins the main road .
 
 Site IV cut to Pi III roundabout
 
 At the Site IV cut, commuters emerging from the industrial area and travelling towards Pari Chowk or Noida via the expressway, continue to drive on the wrong side till the Pi III roundabout, for almost 50m. Though the distance is small, it’s a high-risk manoeuvre, as vehicles on the expressway are driven at speeds in excess of 60kmph. Ideally, they should drive to the roundabout near Acher police chowki about 500m ahead.
 
