THRISSUR: Anisha, the girl student who had been reducing food intake to avoid open defecation, is likely to get a house soon. Kunnamkulam municipality is planning to build a house for her under the PMAY and land for building a new house will be registered in the coming week. 

  According to the municipal division councillor  , 3.5 cents will be registered in the name of the family of Anisha within two or three days. The money for the land is being provided by All Kerala Caterers' Association. The owner of the land has said that the buyers can pay whatever amount they can afford. "The caterers association is planning to give Rs 2 lakh for the land, though its actual price would be much higher. But the land owner is in Kuwait, which is why the registration is getting delayed," the councillor said.
 
  "The district committee of the catering association has mobilized funds from various units and we are ready to make the contributions any time," said K J Manoj, Chavakkad zonal secretary of the association. 
 
  The girl, a student of Bethany Malayalam Medium School at   near Kunnamkuklam, hails from a family which had migrated from Tirunelveli in   about 30 years ago. Her father and mother are staying separately for the past 10 years, and she is staying with her mother and younger brother in Vadakkekkad panchayat, near Chavakkad. Her grandmother, mother's younger sister, her husband and their two children also with stay with them.
 
  And all of them are staying in a shed made as an extension of a shop-cum house of the Gulf returnee Rajan. Rajan's family was very supportive of Anisha's family, according to her mother Kanithulasi.
 
  The rent was only a nominal amount and even that was being collected only occasionally. Anisha did not have toilet at her house and was using the school toilet on working days and she reduced food intake to bare minimum on holidays to avoid the urge to go to toilet. The women members of her family take bath in another makeshift tent built close to the house of Rajan. 
 
  After her pathetic life situation was exposed by the media, the district administration and agencies like Kudumbashree stepped in to support her and the Vadakkekkad panchayat allocated a temporary ration card to the family. Her house owner has already constructed a toilet and Kudumbashree supported the initiative.
 
  District collector A   said the measures for providing a house for Anisha will be expedited by including her application in the PMAY list or the LIFE Mission programme.
 
  "I'm happy that different agencies are supporting us to realise our dream to have a house, and I'm only praying it materializes soon,'' Anisha said.
 
 
