CHANDIGARH: Giving clean chit to the   BJP president Subhash Barala’s nephew Kuldeep Singh and other relatives in a case of   of a minor girl from a village in Fatehabad district, the state police on Tuesday informed the Punjab and Haryana high court that no incriminating evidence had been found against them in relation to the charges.

 Two accused named in the case—Kuldeep and Vikram Singh—are stated to be a nephew and a close relative of  . Police also informed that a cancellation report in the case had also been filed before the lower court on March 17.
 
 An affidavit in regard to the case was filed before the HC on Tuesday by Fatehabad superintendent of police (SP) Deepak Saharan. The SP told the court that on September 14, 2017, a special investigation team (SIT) comprising inspector Pardeep Kumar, inspector Manju Singh and sub-inspector   was constituted under   deputy superintendent of police ( ) to probe the allegations. After thorough investigation, no incriminating evidence was found by the SIT to connect these accused with the crime and the allegations leveled by the petitioners were found false.
 
 He further mentioned the entire matter was again re-examined minutely by the DSP (headquarters) and DSP (city) who had also agreed to the findings that no incriminating evidence was found against the accused. On March 17, the Tohana station house officer (SHO) had filed cancellation report to the area magistrate, the SP submitted before the high court.
 
 The matter had reached the HC in June 2017 in the wake of a petition filed by the minor survivor through her mother.
 
 The survivor has alleged that she was illegally confined till midnight at Dhani Shera village in Tohana. The FIR of kidnapping was first registered on May 8 at Tohana police station in which the girl had alleged that   of the same village as the girl had abducted her after conspiring with Kuldeep, his wife and others.
 
 Vikram is a distant relative of Barala. Police had found the girl the next day and taken her to Bhuna police station. The girl said in her petition in the high court that she had been pressurized into saying before the magistrate that she had gone with Vikram on her own because of some family problems.
 
 Claiming that she was scared and was influenced by the accused persons before recording of her statement, petitioner submitted that it was because of the pressure, she had made a statement before the magistrate that she had left home at her due to some family problems.
 
 Petitioner also claimed that on April 21, 2017, accused Vikram had taken her a private hotel in Bhuna town of Fatehabad district and raped her.
 
 
