NEW DELHI: In a bid to put a check on its expenses, the   has decided to standardize the fees for state associations hosting India A, India U-19, Women Team India and various formats of domestic matches.

 
 
 
 The board has always had a fixed amount set for hosting international games and used to transfer the grants to the state associations. The board shells out Rs 25 lakh for Test matches and Rs 15 lakh ODIs and T20Is. But associations were compensated for hosting non-international as per the invoice generated and submitted to the BCCI.
 
 
 
 “Nobody can keep a tab on the expenses done by associations. There has been disparity in bills submitted by associations last season. The standardization of hosting fees will ensure there are no frivolous expenses. The board will be hosting a lot more matches this year and with new members coming in, every expenditure must be monitored,” a BCCI official told TOI.
 
 It is learnt that the disparity in expenditures came to light when the   ( ) billed the board Rs 13.5 lakh besides the hosting fees and other expenses for hosting four matches of Deodhar Trophy at a single venue played under lights in five days. HPCA’s bill included Rs 4.50 lakh on diesel generator (DG) sets, Rs 2 lakh on furniture and Rs 7 Lakh on operational and diesel for DG sets. The board has a set amount Rs 1 lakh as hosting fees besides the bills generated by local associations.
 
 It was noticed that the   ( ) raised an invoice of approximately Rs 8 lakh for hosting multiple teams the second round of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament at two venues which also included matches played under lights.
 
 Interestingly, the board made a payment of around Rs 18.5 lakh to   for conducting two four-day games against   A in September last year.
 
 The proposal has been provisionally accepted by the Supreme Court-appointed committee of administrators (CoA) subject that the hosting of such matches should cover the actual cost plus another 10 percent. The proposal will now be referred to the finance committee.
 
 According to the proposal, hosting fees for four-day international matches (like A games), three-day internationals (warm-up games), and two-day international games, will be Rs 25 lakh, Rs 20 lakh and Rs 15 lakh respectively. Day-night ODI/T20 per game 12 lakh, day-night domestic matches will be Rs 3 lakh a day and domestic day matches with live broadcasting matches will be given Rs 1.5 lakh per day. These amounts will be addition to existing hosting fees of Rs 1 lakh.
 
