CHENNAI: Five days after TOI expose on unauthorised 24/7   outlets operating in city outskirts, particularly in the northern periphery, police have registered more than 100 FIRs and arrested 81 persons.

 A submission to this effect was made by director-general of police (DGP) in Madras high court, pursuant to the orders passed by a division bench of   and Justice V Parthiban. The orders were issued on the basis of a TOI news item — ‘Stop, look, pass booze: In city’s north, illegal liquor vends all aslosh in cash’ — published on April 18.
 
 Recording the submission, the bench said: “Even though the status reports state that many raids were conducted, only 100 FIRs have been registered and 81 persons alone have been arrested between April 18 and 23. It would only go to show that the raids are not properly conducted. Therefore, the departments shall continue to conduct raids to see that there is no illegal vending or illegal bars run by third parties which will not only go against the public interest but also go against the financial interest of the government.”
 
 This apart, noting that the necessity to reduce TASMAC timing has come, the bench said, even school going children are becoming addicts. Since the TASMAC shops are opened by noon, addicts and weak-minded persons, especially the school going children, are tempted to buy liquors.
 
 “The article gives details of illegal bars operating round the clock in northern peripheries of the city. It has been reported in the article that four illegal wine shops operate within a radius of 5km between Gandhi Nagar and Edapalayam on the Red Hills–Tiruvallur Road.
 
 Since the said shops and bars have been operating round the clock, people are very much affected and there have been many cases of drunken driving. The said sorry state of affairs is not only happening in the norther suburbs but also in the places such as Old Mahabalipuram Road and Medavakkam,” the bench said and directed the DGP to conduct raids and check such illegal sale of liquor.
 
 Pursuant to the order, the DGP filed two status reports submitting that about 100 FIR’s have been registered and 81 persons were arrested. It was also stated that in the past six months about 3,613 FIRs have been registered and 3,255 persons have been arrested pursuant to the raids conducted by the TASMAC officials and police.
 
 The bench then directed the government to respond to a series of queries, including the possibility of opening liquor shops at 2pm, details of amount spent on educating people against alcohol use and sensitization of TASMAC employees against selling liquor to minors.
 
 
