BENGALURU: Mayor R   Raj had promised that the stretch of Church Street between Brigade Road and   would be fully complete by New Year’s Eve. That promise, however, went unfulfilled. While the stretch stayed open to both traffic and the hordes of pedestrians on Sunday, work, including paving of footpaths, remained unfinished in several areas.

 However, that did not deter New Year revellers from thronging the cobblestonepaved street. Revellers soaked in the new-look, admiring its LED-lit pathways and wide pavements. Youngsters were seen merrily clicking selfies with friends and family on the redeveloped street.
 
 “Last year, Church Street was a mess with stinky corners, overflowing drains and a pothole-ridden carriageway,” said Prayag CS, a PU student. “The transformation is grand. LED lighting has given an altogether new charm to this commercial hub. It is refreshing to hangout here.”
 
  RP, a zumba trainer, echoed those sentiments. “This is the first time I’ve sat on the Church Street pavement and enjoyed a snack,” Sukanya said. “I really hope that the authorities concerned complete all the work and throw it open for the public to thoroughly enjoy.”
 
 Supreeth M, a PU student, said he and his friends decided to hangout on Church Street and ring in the New Year. “The authorities should just pedestrianize this stretch,” he said.
 
 Speaking to TOI, mayor Sampath said only a few finishing touches remained on the first phase of 450 mtrs. “This phase of Church Street will be completely ready within a week and the entire street with a renovated look will be ready by January end,” he said. “I am happy people are appreciating the hard work done by the civic body.”
 
 
 
 
 Perhaps for the first time, personnel from stations in the northeast division deputed on New Year bandobast cut cakes and had dinner together before hitting the streets for duty (see pic). “A first of its kind initiative of Commissioner   & Additional Commissioner  ...Before the cops go on duty...cake cutting & dinner at all police stations of North East Division (sic),” Deputy Commissioner of Police Girish tweeted on Sunday.
 
