Ludhiana: The target set by Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal civic bodies to declare all civic bodies open defecation free (ODF) by June 30 might prove to be a difficult task for Ludhiana municipal corporation to attain.

 The municipal corporation is yet to get mobile and fabricated toilets to be placed near slums and railway lines to achieve the ODF status.
 
 However, the construction of new public toilets is still a distant dream because the MC had earlier planned these toilets under the Smart City Mission, but now they have shifted the project under Swachh Bharat Mission.
 
 The officials had proposed 96 units of public toilets out of which prefabricated toilets were supposed to be constructed at 21 locations. Besides, 34 mobile toilet sets were proposed to be stationed at places where construction of public toilets is not possible or these are near railway lines and remote locations.
 
 The identified locations for public toilets were Bharat Nagar Nagar Chowk, in front of Mini Secretariat, police commissioner's office, DC office, Feroze Gandhi Market, in front of Aarti Cinema, Aggar Nagar bus stand, Gill Chowk, Adjoining Gill Canal, Dholewal Chowk, Samrala Chowk right side near overbridge, Samrala Chowk left side near overbridge, near Jamalpur Chowk, opposite Veer Palace Chandigarh Road, near Durga Mata Mandir, Kitchlu Nagar Market, Ghumar Mandi Market, opposite DMC Hospital, near Jalandhar bypass underbridge, Pratap Chowk and bus stand.
 
 Even after floating the tenders twice, the department could not finalize the project work despite the fact that it was among the very first projects under Smart City Mission. The officials have completed the process of getting certificates from school students, teachers, principals, councillors and previous mayor for declaring the city open defecation free, but they are yet to give public notice regarding the same. The officials claimed they will be able to declare the city ODF only when they will provide the mobile and pre-fabricated toilets to people.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said they have consulted some of the industrial units for providing mobile toilets and they have agreed for the same. He said they are expecting to receive the mobile toilets shortly and prefabricated ones will also be installed as soon as they will get the delivery. He claimed they will achieve the target before the deadline.
 
 Box:
 
 The MC had declared the toilets at petrol pumps public through public notice and they are considering it a replacement of those public toilets which they were supposed to construct in the city. The idea was to provide a public toilet at every 1 km, but MC could not construct new public toilets in the city.
 
 
