NEW DELHI: The family of   Gaurav Gupta believe he didn’t   but was murdered. On Wednesday, Gupta had a fatal fall from the sixth-floor of a building at   in south Delhi where the office of   is located. 

 This was declared a suicide, but the Gupta family alleged foul play. 
 
 Ashok Gupta, father of Gaurav, told TOI that he had accompanied his son and had seen how rude DRI officials had been to him. “They first raided our house on Tuesday around 7pm. My daughter-in-law was alone at home then. After checking everything at home, they raided our jewellery store and slapped my son when he asked them what was happening,” Gupta said. 
 
 Women staff at the store said the DRI officials who came for the raid turned off all CCTV cameras and told them to leave and not return to work until further orders. Gupta said the officials stayed over at their house and asked them innumerable questions about gold jewellery in their possession. “We have bills for all that we possess. The next morning around 7am, they took me and my son to their office. After questioning me for over four hours, I was sent home with almost 15 officials while my son was still there. He died around noon and they took me back to their office around 4pm. Even though my son had died by that time, none of us at home were given any sort of information regarding it. When I questioned them about Gaurav, they instead made me listen to a tape that allegedly had my son’s voice calling out for help,” Gupta said.
 
 Gupta doubted the clip as his son had died five hours earlier. He said there was a waiting room where they were made to sit for a while before being taken to separate rooms for questioning and it had a window near the roof. “Even if I believe for a moment that my son committed suicide, he could have jumped only through two rooms: one where he was being questioned, the other the waiting room. If he jumped through the first room, then someone must have seen or encouraged him and if he jumped through the second room, who pushed him up to the window as my son had a heavy build and there was no way he could have climbed on his own,” Gupta said.
 
 Gaurav Gupta’s widow Stuti was inconsolable. “I refuse to believe that my husband committed suicide. Our lives were perfect till Tuesday morning,” she said.
 
 The deceased’s mother even claimed her elder son Nitin was also summoned by DRI but was untraceable until Thursday evening. 
 
 DRI officials contested all claims. An officer said anonymously that   and his father were taken care of as both were diabetics. “An AC mechanic had seen Gaurav jump off,” the officer said. The officer added that huge recoveries had been made from the shop and home of the Guptas, and they had been brought to the office to ask about the seizures. “Gaurav threatened to harm himself and even commit suicide,” he added. 
 
 
