VADODARA/AHMEDABAD: The barbaric gangrapes in Kathua, Unnao and Surat has shaken the conscience of civil society who took to the roads to condemn the crimes and seeking justice for the victims.

 Barodians turned up in large numbers at different places on Sunday to stage protests against the rape of a young girl in Kathua. Concerned citizens, especially women, took out rallies to spread awareness about crime against women. 
 
 “It was a students’ initiative and we joined them. The rally we took out wasn’t just about Kathua but about concern over women’s safety across the country. As citizens, we have to speak up if we want to stop this brutality against women,” said   who runs an NGO – Olakh. Hundreds of participants walked from Fatehgunj to Kala Ghoda circle with placards in hands.
 
 Several Muslim organizations and women’s NGOs too staged march in Akota area. “We took the initiative through our social media platform and decided to gather at Sayajibaug on Sunday evening. We displayed posters and also lit candles to support women’s safety,” said Dhanishta Dave, one of the protestors. Hundreds of students too gathered at M S University’s arts faculty dome and marched till the BBA faculty. 
 
 In Ahmedabad, people in Dhabgarvad locality of Dariyapur area held protest march and demonstration wherein small kids and girls showed placards displaying message against the brutal incident of Kathua where an 11-year-old girl was raped and murdered after begin held in a captivity at a temple. Another group of young girls registered protest against Unnao rape in which BJP MLA Kuldeepsingh Sengar has been arrested.
 
 Quota stir leader Hardik Patel-led Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS) also joined the protest against the criems and held a candle march in Nikol area on Sunday.
 
 “The criminals have not only murdered the innocent girls but also killed the humanity. I will fight for the justice for all the rape victims. Whoever indulged in such a a heinous crime must be punished,” said Hardik.
 
 Jayesh Patel, PAAS convener in Ahmedabad, said that they will seek justice for the rape victims of Kathua, Unnao and Surat. “If the government does not act swiftly against the rape cases, then we will hold a nation wide protest shortly,” he said, adding that similar candle march programmes are simultaneously being held in Surat, Junagadh and Rajkot districts. 
 
 Meanwhile, Jignesh Mevani also posted on social media asking the people to join the protest against “the horrors of Kathua, Unnao and Surat” which is being organized by the concerned citizens of Ahmedabad. His ooutfit- Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch (RDAM) members and Muslim community members took out a protest march in Mehsana city on Sunday evening. 
 
 On Saturday night also, a group of people living in   and Pandesara areas in Surat city took out a candle march to protest against police inaction in the case of 11-year-old girl who was found murdered after being brutalized and raped.
 
 
