GURUGRAM: Thieves targeted another   booth in the city in the early hours of Tuesday and decamped with at least Rs 7 lakh. An Indicash ATM in Badshapur’s Begampur Khatola village was cut open and the CCTV camera was broken. In the wake of the rise in ATM thefts, city police has issued strict instructions to patrolling cops and is set to hold area cops accountable if future instances of ATM thefts are reported.

 The crime took place between 9pm on Monday and 6am on Tuesday when the ATM booth was closed. The security guard manning the booth had closed it down and left the premises on Monday night. When he reached the booth early in the morning on Tuesday, he saw that it had been broken into. The machine was cut open and the cash trays were missing. 
 
 “We don’t know the exact time at which the theft took place, since there was no guard present and there are no CCTV cameras around,” said a police officer investigating the matter. Cops have asked officials of   Payment Solutions Limited, the company which owns the ATM, to give them CCTV footage of the booth till the time the camera was disabled. “We’re waiting for a report from the company,” the officer said. A team of forensic experts, including a team of crime scene investigators and fingerprint experts, also examined the ATM booth and took prints, police said. An FIR was registered under sections 380 (theft) and 457 (trespass) of IPC at   police station on Tuesday evening, investigating officer ASI Satyender told TOI. 
 
 The case has been handed over to the crime branch for investigation. A police spokesperson said instructions have been issued by the police commissioner in the light of the repeated ATM thefts in the city. Cops have been told to deploy personnel at ATMs which do not have a guard. “If any instance of ATM theft is reported in the future, departmental action will be initiated,” the spokesperson said, referring to the instructions laid out by the commissioner in a meeting held with the city’s senior police officers on Tuesday.
 
 
