In 15 parliamentary and assembly by-polls since 2014 in   in the present term of   as Chief Minister, the BJP-Congress score stands at 9-6. Four of these   victories, in which it retained its old seats, have come in the last one year leading to a wide-scale political perception that Congress is on an upswing and can dislodge the   from power in the state after 15 years, come this December.
 
  The latest wins in Mungaoli and Kolaras, however, come as a wake-up call for the Congress towards that goal. The winning margins for the party have decreased significantly from 2013 in both these seats, especially in the Mungaoli seat where they crashed from about 20,000 votes to just 2,000-odd votes. BJP has increased its vote share on both the seats, making its leaders claim that no anti-incumbancy is working against the BJP government. That these seats fell in the parliamentary constituency of party’s CM face probable  , who relentlessly campaigned here, is only expected to increase the tussle among state congress leaders on the point whether Scindia can lead the party to a win in the state eight months later. The divisions are apparent as while senior Congress leader   told ET on Wednesday that a CM face should be announced by the party now, its state president Arun Yadav and leader of opposition Ajay Singh insisted the party will fight under collective leadership in the December polls.
  
 
  Congress is nevertheless celebrating its latest wins, with Scindia saying Congress won the seats despite the full force of the state cabinet being unleashed by the CM in both these seats and numerous electoral violations being committed by them leading to censures. These wins coming after the big by-poll wins for Congress in Rajasthan and a good performance in Gujarat add to the political narrative of a Congress revival across states. But some hard facts need to be factored in. Out of its six by-poll wins so far since 2014 in MP, Congress was able to snatch two of these seats from the BJP – the Bahoriband assembly seat in 2014 and Ratlam Parliamentary seat in 2015 while it retained four of its sitting seats but with significantly reduced margins on three of them, Ater, Kolaras and Mungaoli. The only seat it retained by increasing its votes was Chitrakoot, a known Congress bastion for years. BJP on the other hand, out of its nine by-poll wins, snatched two seats from the Congress and retained seven of its sitting seats. This is not a rosy picture for a party looking to come back in power in MP after 15 years and taking on BJP which holds over 2/3rd majority there.
  
  Realising that farm distress is real, the Shivraj Chouhan government has made a provision of `37,498 crore for a ‘Krishi Budget’ this year, attempting to woo the farmers who hold the key to who wins in December. There is no doubt that Congress is a serious challenger to the BJP this time in Madhya Pradesh but the party must not assume a victory by default in December. It needs to work harder as BJP is certainly not out of the game.
  
