MUMBAI:   have sought the approval of housing societies in  ,  , to carry out   to build the   The societies have been asked to either file their objections or issue No objection certificate (NOC) for the project executed by the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC).

 Excavation is done either through tunnel boring machines (TBM) or controlled blasting. Controlled blasting is carried out if the rock surface is hard or abrasive as machines take longer in such cases. It can be carried out only after getting permission from the police department. Usually, police give the NOC if there are no security issues or any danger to the safety of adjoining premises.
 
 So, Cuffe Parade police station has issued notices to local housing societies to carry out controlled blasting work on Captain Prakash Pethe Marg for construction of station, following an application by Metro III contractor L&T – Shanghai Tunnel Engineering.
 
 Parvin Jahangir, a resident of Jupiter building, said, “Our building is 45 years old and is on the same rock foundation. We fear that our building may face danger as a part of the rock is going to be blasted for the Metro construction work.” 
 
 Expressing similar fear, Dalamal Park resident Robin Jaisinghani said, “MMRC has not kept us in the loop about its plan to use explosives. We should have been informed well in advance as our building foundation is too close to the site of the work.”
 
 Asked about possible threats to the buildings, MMRC’s director-projects SK Gupta said, “At Marol, we carried out the work where the vibration levels were 1.4 mm/sec and the noise levels were 75 dB.” MMRC has set a minimum permissible level of 5 mm/sec near heritage precincts. 
 
 The other option is to use jet hammer, but it is a time-consuming process and also creates loud noise. Gupta said, “We had done the work in Marol where a very old building with no foundation also did not suffer any damage.”
 
 MMRC has also rejected the allegation that the locals were kept in the dark. “We not only explained to the office bearers but also to their structural consultants,” Gupta said.
 
 MMRC also assuaged Cuffe Parade residents’ fear of flyrock causing injury to people. An MMRC official said, “The explosive and blasting is done by using proper calculations. Also, as a precaution, the rock is covered so that pieces of rock do not fly.” He added, “The housing societies do not have veto on whether or not to carry out the work.”
 
 
