SURAT: Police arrested a   and developer   on Wednesday for allegedly   to claim ownership of 18,500 square metre land in Vesu, which is worth over Rs 100 crore. Gajera was arrested only after   directive. 

 Gajera is younger brother of Dhiru Gajera, Congress candidate from Varachha constituency during 2017 assembly election and former BJP MLA. In the past, Gajera’s younger brother Chuni Gajera was arrested for alleged involvement in land grabbing case. 
 
 Gajera owns Laxmi Diamond, a leading diamond trading group, having offices in different countries. He also owns Laxmi Developers that has developed some of major commercial and residential projects in the city. 
 
 According to the police, Gajera was arrested following complaint of Vajubhai alias Vrajlal Nagji Malani (60), a resident of Puna Patiya area on Kadodara Road. 
 
 He was booked under various Sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 193 (intentionally giving false evidence in any stage of a judicial proceeding), 196 (using evidence known to be false), 197 (issuing or signing false certificate), 199 (false statement made in declaration which is by law receivable as evidence), 465/467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (using a forged document), 477 (fraudulent cancellation, destruction of valuable security or document) and others. 
 
 Malani stated in his compliant that he had purchased the land in question in 1990. At the same time Gajera also claimed ownership of the same land and got purchase deed prepared. That deed was registered with the state government. Malani then challenged Gajera’s purchase deed in civil court. Later, Gajera approached sessions court and claimed that he was in possession of the disputed land.
 
 “While claiming possession of the land, Gajera produced bills and vouchers of payment to claim that he got some specific work done on the land while it was in his possession. During investigation it was found that the papers were forged. So, we approached court and sought directives that a complaint be registered for forgery against Gajera,” Malani said.
 
 Following Malani’s application to register a criminal case, assistant commissioner of police F division in 2016 carried out an inquiry and submitted a report in September 2017. In the inquiry report, Gajera was found guilty of forgery. However, no complaint was registered, after which Malani approached the court through his lawyer Shailesh Patel.
 
 “Since it is a civil matter, police did detailed inquiry into it and only after strong evidences were found the case was registered,” city police commissioner Satish Sharma said.
 
 
