As the city geared up for an early weekend on Wednesday evening, a bunch of Mumbaikars witnessed magic being weaved in the form of a blindfold orchestra. Brainchild of Israeli travelling musician,  , the gig comprised Mumbai-based musicians.
Blind orchestra, which takes experimental music to new levels, entailed blindfolding the musicians (except the conductor), who took their music cues on the ‘touch’ of a baton. The instrumentalists and vocalists, with eyes covered by masks and scarves, played to each other’s tunes, almost instinctively. And this way, they alternated between blues, rock-n-roll and folksy tunes, improvising on the spot and filling the lounge with high-octane performances. An evening accurately summed up by vocalist  , when she sang 'You Can See But We Can’t See'.
 
 
 
 As an audience, it was interesting to see the conductor move around with the batons (an illuminated one) with deftness and precision, using it like a magic wand to draw silvery notes out of his band of musicians. “It’s unpredictable. It’s like seeing a painter come up with a masterpiece in a jiffy; you never know what’s in store even though it’s happening right in front of your eyes,” said Dov. 
 Ambar Das, guitarist-vocalist-percussionist, is not new to this experience. Having associated with Dov earlier, he said, “Playing music with a blindfold awakens all your other senses. You are in an extremely personal space, which is great for any artist.” Dov chipped in, “Also, you care a little less about the way you look or about people’s reactions. It helps you concentrate only on the music. If you surrender to that, you’re going to have a good time.” 
 Excited about his first stint with an orchestra of this kind, Humtoo, a wind instrumentalist, said, “When you perform solo — be it as a vocalist or a guitarist — you tend to shut your eyes. It is as good as being blindfolded as you’re connecting with the notes and the Almighty. The only difference is you don’t get to make eye contact with your team members for cues.” 
 
 
 
 Since Dov hailed from a family of musicians and artists, his introduction to music and art happened at an early age. “My uncle had his own jam room, where I was introduced to the sessions he would conduct, at the age of 11. That’s how I developed a passion for music. Five years ago, I had this urge of creating a musical representation of my work. It’s when I came up with the idea of a blind orchestra. It has turned out to be the best idea I have had till date,” he shared.
 The travelling musician, also a drummer, started collaborating with musicians from around the world. That’s how he met Manas Chowdhary (bassist, didge artist), who also helped him assemble the line-up for the Mumbai-leg, at a café in Manali three years ago. Said Manas, “It’s our second collaboration, but it feels like trekking for the first time — where you know what you’ve taken on, but still don’t know what’s going to happen next.”
 
 
 
 If you’ve been to a gig earlier, you know that right before a performance, there’s a certain backstage-prep vibe when they show up. Not this one though. There’s no concept of rehearsal, everything about it — the music and lyrics — is all impromptu. Said Dov, “There are no dos and don’ts. We just have a small vocal workshop, where we form a circle, sing together, play some games… that’s the tradition. The idea is to get everybody focused on each other.” 
 At every gig, there are a minimum of one-two first-time performers and sometimes, all of them. Sunayna Sarkar, vocalist of a Mumbai-based band, is a first timer. “It’s a cerebral experience as most of your senses are acute at that point. It’s also a good exercise to understand my place as a musician. If I am able to gel with the rest of them, then I do have a future,” she said. And what happens once the blindfolds are taken off? “Light-headed and totally relaxed — it’s a 
 different high,” she added.
 
 
 
  
  
 When the conductor touches a musician with a baton, he/she begins to play his part of the music — one tap means play, the other, stop. For instrumentalists, the tap is on the shoulder, while for the vocalists, it is on their head. When the conductor touches them with two batons, it means they are the leader for that moment. “It’s my way of saying, ‘Be the frontman/woman’,” shared Dov. “Four taps on the leg means, to speed up,” he added.
 
