GHAZIABAD: The magisterial inquiry conducted into   has found several instances of negligence by the school as well as attempts made by its staff to tamper and cover up the crime scene.

 The then district magistrate, Ministhy S, had ordered the magisterial inquiry after Armaan’s parents complained that they were dissatisfied with the tardy investigations. The inquiry had been handed over to ADM (finance & revenue) Rajesh Kumar Yadav.
 
 Yadav had visited the school to conduct a spot inspection on August 18 last year during which staff, teachers and students were questioned about the sequence of events and the circumstances leading to the death of Armaan.
 
 Expert opinion had been sought by Yadav on the   of Armaan's post-mortem that had been conducted by a panel of doctors. The report had been sent by the magistrate to the AIIMS director in Delhi who examined it along with a panel of doctors. The panel reported that   had sustained fractures on the nasal region as well as to the base of skull.
 
 The final report of the magisterial probe was submitted by Yadav on December 16, days before he was transferred out to another district in UP. On Friday, Yadav told TOI from Bahraich, that his probe had revealed several instances of negligence by the school as well attempts made by its staff to tamper and cover up the crime scene.
 
 “I had spoken to two students in isolation, who had witnessed Armaan’s fall on the second floor corridor on the fateful day. Both students had told me that Armaan had slipped on the corridor that was wet with water. This was a clear case of negligence by the school staff. The staff had tampered with the crime scene and wiped away the water. There had been other attempts too to remove evidence from the crime scene. A second round of forensic examination had been conducted by a team from Moradabad. As per the report of this forensic team there were bloodstains on the shorts and undergarments of Armaan. However, there were no bloodstains on Armaan's clothes when he was taken to the hospital. His parents had found his pants wet instead,” Yadav told TOI.
 
 Investigations by police on the second floor corridor of the school building, where Armaan had allegedly slipped and fell, had revealed that there was no CCTV camera installed. Yadav has recommended in his report for a technical inquiry of the CCTV system in the school to ascertain if there was any camera installed on the second-floor corridor where Armaan fell and the camera, if at all, had been removed later to tamper evidence.
 
 
