Shortage of trained nurses, children or relatives transferring property to their names using illegal means, no free medicine under government programme in rural areas, overcrowding and lack of medical care for mentally-ill inmates were some of the major issues outlined by a three-member committee that was constituted by the chief minister last year to study old-age homes.

 The committee, comprising justice CN Ramachandran Nair, former DGP (prisons) Alexander Jacob and former director of health services (DHS) Dr Jameela, will submit its report on the issues faced by old-age homes at the end of this month.
 
 The committee resorted to random visits and classified the issues they unearthed into three categories: crime, health and general. The panel identified 18 issues and recommended remedial measures. It perused problems such as children abandoning their elderly parents in religious places like Guruvayur and abuse of parents after children inherit property.
 
 “One major issue was the absence of trained nurses at such care homes. Inmates at old-age homes have various ailments and each person has a unique diet depending on illness and treatment course. Some are mentally ill and their care is a challenge in itself. Some inmates have dementia and urinate without their knowledge. In all these cases, the service of a trained nurse is necessary. Government will ensure that the nurses at these institutions are trained,” said Jacob.
 
 At present, 2,500 nurses work in old-age homes across Kerala. “Nurses in care homes run by missionary groups are trained. The other problem is overcrowding or shortage of inmates, this needs to be streamlined to ensure optimum space utilization,” he said. Another flaw the panel found was that inmates in rural areas did not get the benefit Vayomithram programme that ensures free medicine.
 
 “The committee will submit its report to the government at the earliest with recommendations for the welfare of the elderly,” said justice CN Ramachandran Nair, who heads the committee.
 
 Meanwhile,  , an NGO, sought the formation of a regulatory body in Kerala.
 
 “A regulator is mandatory, especially when our generation is ageing fast. Just see the number of old-age homes that are mushrooming here. To regulate such institutions and ensure standards, a separate body is necessary. The society itself is evolving into a different system. While the older generation gave importance to values, the younger generation is more practical. They have no qualms about sending their parents to old-age homes,” said Biju Mathew, state head, HelpAge India.
 
 
 
 
