MUMBAI: In a setback for post-graduate medical students, the state on Monday permitted private colleges to charge management quota students four times the merit seat  . 

 The PG medical admissions began earlier this month but most private colleges refused to admit students as they sought to charge management quota students on a par with NRI candidates. The fees for NRI quota is set at five times the merit seat fees. Round 1 of admissions ended on Thursday, but the stalemate continued with private colleges not participating in the process. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 According to Monday’s agreement signed by the state and the Fee Regulating Authority (FRA) with colleges, the fee structure will now be 1:4:5 as against the earlier 1:3:5. “It is resolved,” said a government official. Under the new structure, if merit quota (50%) students of a college pay an annual fee of Rs 12 lakh, as set by the FRA, those under the management quota (35%) would have to shell out Rs 48 lakh, and NRI candidates (15%) will pay Rs 60 lakh.
 
 Parents, however, are miffed with the state government’s decision. “Instead of serving notices to these colleges, the government has given in. A complaint should have been registered against each of them and submitted to the  ,” said a parent.
 
 Following the truce, the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) will release a notification to fill the vacant PG seats on Tuesday. Also, unfilled seats from the all-India quota of government colleges and deemed universities will be surrendered on Tuesday.
 
 Experts said that private colleges stuck to their stand and this is how they will be during MBBS admissions too. 
 
 During the first round, besides government colleges, only two private colleges—Kashibai Navale, Pune, and ACPM, Dhule—admitted students, that too after making them sign an undertaking that if fees rise, candidates would have to pay more. Other teaching hospitals like Bombay Hospital (which has always been with the government),   in Pune, Sangli’s   and Swastiyog in   also admitted PG candidates. To date, of the 400 seats at private colleges, 192 are unfilled.
 
 
