CHENNAI: With patronage of libraries showing a dip owing to sundry other distractions in the digital age,   Gopi of Bookworms in KK Nagar has decided to offer readers some  ,  , in a bid to woo them back. The library is set for a revamp next month with the opening of a cafe where book lovers can bond over a cup of coffee or a plate of waffles.

 Driven by his passion for books, Gopi, a former manager with Higginbothams, started the quaint library back in 2001. “We started small with maybe 3,000 books bought on credit. When the membership started going down, we spoke to readers and found that many of them did not have the time to visit a library. So, in 2007, we started a mobile van-based library that would go to neighbourhoods on the weekend to enable people to read or borrow books,” recalled Sampath. The idea of corporate memberships followed suit, with books being made available to employees of firms from Monday through Friday. These two initiatives helped to stem the exodus of readers and the library has around 3000 members now. 
 
 It is equipped with nearly 35,000 books in Tamil and English, across myriad genres and catering to several ages. Sampath wanted to create an experience where people could come and hang out with friends and also read if they wished to. 
 
 “With the rents, electricity costs, and salary of employees increasing, and a number of library members not renewing their memberships, we couldn’t see the idea of the library sustaining itself. When the   closed down, it came as a shock to my family, especially my son who grew up reading books there,” he said.
 
 Against this backdrop, he and his son had been chewing over the idea of a cafe themed on books and reading for several months. “Any visitor to the cafe will also have access to the library. They can sit down and enjoy some snacks over a book and later walk out with some books too. They can also just come to borrow books and leave if they don’t want to hang out at the cafe,” said Sampath. 
 
 “People for several reasons fail to visit libraries these days. So, this initiative is intended to draw readers and provide them access to books. It is a cafe that centres around the library,” he added, saying the library will be rebranded to be called #Stories cafe. 
 
 “It is difficult to accept that people don’t want to read anymore. We want to give them the opportunity to rekindle their love for books,” he said.
 
 
