SASARAM: After fighting a legal battle for more than two years, Raju  , a daily wage worker, succeeded in proving in the trial court that he had to remain in jail for one week and face trial for two years for a crime that was never committed by him. 

 The court discharged Seth last Saturday and asked Rohtas SP to take action against the police officer concerned of   police station for arresting an innocent person just because his first name matched with the real accused. Police too admitted in the court that it was a case of mistaken identity. 
 
 "It all started on November 12, 2014, after a truck driver, Raju Prasad of   village under   police station of the district surrendered before the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) in   when a man was run over by his vehicle near the district jail. He was released on bail the same day," police said.
 
  However, as Prasad failed to appear in court on the scheduled dates, the court cancelled his bail on November 30, 2015 and issued a non-bailable warrant against him. On December 28, 2015, the Dalmianagar police arrested his namesake Raju Seth of the same village and sent him to jail. The namesake, a daily wage worker, was shocked as there was no case against any of his family members. After eight days, he was released on bail," said police. 
 
 After coming out of jail, Seth came to know that the real accused of the same village had died on April 14, 2015, in a road accident in Aurangabad. 
 
  "I then collected the copy of the FIR, the postmortem report and death certificate of the actual accused and filed a petition in the court, requesting it to discharge me as I had nothing to do with the case. Taking serious note of the petition, the court asked the Dalmianagar police station SHO to submit an inquiry report on January 17, 2017, but to no avail. After repeated reminders, police submitted compliance report after eight months on September 11 last year, stating that the real accused had died and police arrested Raju Seth and produced him in the court by mistake. The court, in its order on January 6, said it was the fault of the police as it arrested an innocent person without proper verification," Seth said. 
 
 
