GANDHINAGAR:  , at a function to felicitate 900  , said that his government will focus on   in the coming state budget. Rupani promised to provide as much money as required for development of villages. He appealed to the sarpanches to come forward to develop their villages. The function was held at the BJP headquarters, Kamalam, at Koba near Gandhinagar.

 “In the coming days the Gujarat government will focus on farmers and village development. There will be major focus on empowerment of villages in next budget. Money will not be an issue. You don’t worry about money. The government will take care of it, but you need to come forward to develop your villages.” The CM also said that there will be gathering of all 18,000 village sarpanches, to educate them about government schemes for farmers and villages.
 
 “The focus of the centre and the state government is the village and we are going forward in bringing development to the villages,” he added.
 
 The CM said, “To stop Modi from once again coming to power and to stop BJP’s ashwamegh (conquering holy horse) in 2019, Congress is trying every possible trick. PM   is changing the country. Congress has become desperate for survival. The 2019 results are very clear. Under PM Narendrabhai’s leadership, the BJP will form the government once again. The Congress did not think about farmers and villages and now the government in Delhi is thinking of farmers, villages and the poor.”
 
 “The final fight will be in 2019. Congress knows that if Modi wins 2019, it will be lost for ever. Congress is in panic and is taking drastic steps to defame the BJP but the poor, farmers and villagers are the focus of the PM. Narendrabhai has annouced a 50% hike in MSP prices and Rs 5 lakh health insurance cover for the needy. Under the 14th Finance Commission, villages now get funds directly. The sarpanch has direct authority. Our effort is to create village sachivalayas (secretariats),” he added.
 
 The CM claim that the BJP had won more than 75% of the sarpanch seats in the recent village panchayat elections, even in assembly seats won by the Congress.
 
 CM, ministers meet governor
 
 CM Vijay Rupani, deputy CM Nitin Patel and all the ministers called on governor O P Kohli at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday evening, after the new government took charge. Rupani and Nitin Patel also discussed the coming budget session.
 
 
