
 He may not have had a release in 2017, but his magnum opus, KGF, the first part of which is set to release this year, has kept the Rocking Star busy and in the news. 

 After being ‘good friends’ with Radhika Pandit for several years, the two finally got hitched and are happily married. 
 
  Yash is known to experiment with his looks for his films, and his rugged avatar for KGF — which he’s had for over a year — is a hit with the ladies. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 He’s undoubtedly one of the hottest and most promising cricketers on Team India, whose consistent performances have set the course for many victories.
 
 Said to have moved on from one model to another. He’s a flamboyant player off the pitch, too. 
 
 His ripped physique and bad-boy charm ensure that there isn’t a woman in the room that doesn’t have her eyes set on him.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 After making a comeback of sorts with Ugramm, the Roaring Star has been part of several big budget films such as Rathavara and, most recently, Mufti.
 
 Sriimurali and wife Vidya celebrate their 10th wedding anniversary this year.
 
 Despite being one of the hottest Kannada stars, Sriimurali prefers spending time at home with his family. Did we hear someone say ‘dream catch’?
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  The Peter England Mr India 2016 and Bengaluru boy, he is an engineer and an accomplished athlete as well.
 
 He still claims he’s single. We wonder how! 
 
  That chiseled face, those intense eyes and a model body — the complete package, we say.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 : The former Mr Karnataka winner picks roles that show off his acting prowess, which he showed off with the dark characters in Kahi (2016) and Siliconn City (2017). 
 
  There are rumours that he was dating a Kannada actress, but is single again now. 
 
  There’s more to him than his chocolate-boy good looks. He’s perhaps one of the only actors who has admitted that he’s here to be a star — and we love that confidence.
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 : The model-turned-actor has been the leading man of one of the most popular daily soaps on the small screen, for several years now. He also does the occasional movie and is now the host of a reality TV comedy show as well.
 
 While there was news of him dating a city-based dancer, we hear that is a thing of the past. 
 
 : Typical South Indian good looks and dimples that could give Diganth a run for the money.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  After having conquered Kannada TV with his hit daily, he went on to rule Hindi TV as Ravana. His stint on the latest season of Bigg Boss Kannada has propelled him into the limelight.
 
  While an actress was his steady date a few years, gossip mills suggest that he has eyes only for a particular Bigg Boss contestant. 
 
 : A smile that makes you stop in your tracks, and a body that’s the envy of many of his compatriots.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  The Action Prince may have only three films to his credit, but his fan following is akin to that of the biggest stars in the industry. And his 2017 release, Bharjari, proved just that.
 
  He’s known to be a player, but he likes to keep it discreet.
 
  Muscles that will leave a body builder red faced, and killer moves on the dance floor.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  One of the few people to have successfully made the transition from the small screen to the big screen, this dedicated Mandya boy puts all his energies into one project at a time. Arjun Sarja chose him to play the lead role opposite his daughter Aishwarya’s Sandalwood debut over others. Chandan also made his debut on the celebrity cricket league and has been in the news for being Kannada star Sudeep’s badminton buddy too. 
 
 : Officially single, though there have been rumours of him dating a certain co-star. 
 
  His ripped makeover for Luv U Alia had ladies literally going weak in the knees.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  With over eight films as the lead star under his belt, it was his role as a villain in the 2018 film Tagaru that had him in the news all through 2017. The actor is also known to be a writer and a poet, and he’s spent the year exploring this part of his personality, and we can’t wait to check that out soon.
 
  Marriage is not for me, he says. Hmmmm!
 
  Tall, dark and handsome, with an artistic bent of mind.
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  The fan following that this actor has from his stint on TV, in both Hindi and Kannada, played some role in him having bagged the 2017 Kodlu Ramakrishna film, March 22.
 
 He’s been linked with the female leads of all his serials, but he maintains that he is s-i-n-g-l-e.
 
 His boyish charm and down-to-earth attitude makes for a perfect date.
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 You couldn’t help but sit up and take notice of this hunk after his debut last year in the Kannada-Telugu bilingual, Rogue. He is all set for his second Telugu film. 
 
 : We haven’t heard of any linkups, as surprising as that may sound. 
 
  His Greek-god good looks have had many people comparing him to Hrithik Roshan.
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 He is one of the poster boys of T20 cricket for India. His recent knock in South Africa seems to have him back in the reckoning. He's also known for his explosive batting in the IPL.
 
 A hot favourite among city girls
 
  He has model good looks 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 He was the one to look out for after his debut, Aa Dinagalu. But Chetan has been picky with the films he gives his nod to, all the while making an impact with films such as last year’s Noorondu Nenapu. The actor is an activist in the making, and has been in the news for various campaigns he stands up for – education and women empowerment and safety taking precedence in 2017.
 
  While he has been linked to a co-star in the past, Chetan is now focused only on his social causes, both within and outside the film industry.
 
 Brooding eyes that tell a million stories and a hot bod that adds to the mystery.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The popularity of this TV star has hit the roof with his role in the hugely successful show, Radha Ramana. The actor has been part of the one –off films too, but it is TV that is his main forte.
 
  In a relationship, and he’s ensured it’s a tightly-guarded secret.
 
  He’s just adorable, add to that his modest good looks.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  This Mr India 2015 runner-up has wasted no time in getting on to the acting bandwagon. He has had one Malayalam film released over the last year and is sprucing up for a career down south.
 
  He’s on the market, ladies! 
 
 His smouldering eyes, chiselled face and easy demeanour
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 His makeover for Akira had us drooling. His role in 2017’s Maanja and the teaser of Vasu Naan Pakka Commercial that was released last year piqued everyone’s interest.
 
 This hunk is believed to be in a relationship with a Kannada standup comic’s daughter. 
 
 His sculpted body and rugged look make this man hot property.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 2017 was a year of successful multi-starrers and a step into Bollywood for this state-level badminton player. With Chowka and Happy New Year keeping him in good stead in Kannada films, the actor even made inroads in Hindi cinema.
 
 Dating actress Aindrita Ray
 
  His chocolate-boy looks and dimples are to die for
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 This baddie from Godhi Banna Sadharana Mykattu is steadily becoming one of the most sought-after villains in the Kannada film industry, having bagged films like Kavacha and KGF. He is also a singer in the making; and will soon debut as the lead actor in a film. 
 
 Officially single, but has a lot of attention coming his way. 
 
 He’s quite the gentleman and his baritone can make you swoon. The fact that he is a great singer only makes him more desirable.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Having bagged a significant role in Kirik Party, Aravinnd had heads turning with his rugged makeover for Bheema Sena Nala Maharaja and 777 Charlie (which he had to eventually opt out of) — both of which were announced in 2017.
 
 The fact that he is single will warm the cockles of many women’s heart.
 
  If he had participated in pageants, we are sure that Aravinnd would have been crowned Mr Photogenic, as there isn’t a single frame in which he doesn’t look good. His lumbersexual look is super hot.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 His triple century Vs England in 2016 made him a force to reckon with. His consistent performance with the bat has many comparing him to his idol, Rahul Dravid.
 
 We would be surprised if he is still single, but he is a very private man, so it’s hard to tell.
 
 This Bengaluru dude has got swag. His dreamy bedroom eyes can have any girl fall for him, hook, line and sinker.
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The late Narasimharaju’s grandson has been in the film industry for a while, but the 2016 Last Bus, for which he also filled in as art director, turned things around for him with a state award for his work. In addition to a Tamil advertisement commercial, 2017 has been about shooting for his film - Chase - and exploring his creativity as the art director for three films.
 
 Married to Parvathi Ravindranath; the couple has an adorable two year old boy
 
 His disarming smile, brooding good looks and the ability to knock the socks off most women. 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 He not only had three big releases — Pataki, Mugulu Nage and #Chamak — to his credit in 2017, but the songs from these films are still ruling the charts and have pretty much everyone humming along. His hours sweating it out in the gym and practising Muay Thai have made him the brand ambassador of the sport in India.
 
 He’s been happily married to politician Shilpa Ganesh and runs home to his family as soon as pack up is announced. 
 
 His quick wit and an impeccable sense of humour. After all, the battle is half won if you can make a woman laugh.
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 After not having a single release in 2016, Chiru showed his mettle in the 2017 horror Aake. He is now making sure that he has multiple releases every year and has spent the year hopping from set to set. His personal commitment to actress Meghana Raj also ensured he was in the news.
 
  After several years of ‘are they, aren’t they’, Chiru and actress Meghana Raj showed us that they really are a couple when they got engaged in October 2017. 
 
 They say that food is the way to a man’s heart, but Chiru has turned that around. This dishy dude can not only whip up magic on a film set, but in the kitchen as well. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Starring in a tele soap, judging a dance reality show and being in the recently concluded Bigg Boss house — you would have to be blind to not take notice of this young man. 
 
  Was in a relationship with Anupama Gowda. Now, he’s single and oh-so ready to mingle.
 
 There’s a certain mystery behind those eyes that draw you in and make you want to know more.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 After leaving a mark on the Hindi small screen, Kiran made a comeback in Kannada film Niruttara (2017), in a role that was a marked departure from the regular boy-next-door image. 
 
 Moved lock, stock and barrel to Mumbai to make a career, but found love there. Now that he is back in Bengaluru, we can only assume that he is available again.
 
 His debonair looks and toned physique, backed by an air of intrigue; he personified ‘fair and handsome’.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 His stint as the host of Kannada comedy show Majaa Talkies has had him soar up the popularity list among viewers over the years. 2017, however, saw him take a short break from the show and appear in a couple of others before he decided to return to the Majaa Talkies stage to entertain yet again.
 
 Married to Greeshma. 
 
  He’s got the gift of the gab, which makes him the Talking Star.
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The Best Kept Secret frontman is making waves across the country with his latest tracks. The Hindi pop scene is also beckoning him. 
 
  If social media posts are anything to go by, this stud seems to be cosying up with an up-and-coming young actress, who is also quite the dancer.
 
 His voice, the fact that he is also a pilot, and his sophisticated good looks.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  Even though Nirup did not have a film release in 2017, news from the sets of his next – Rajaratha - has ensured he has remained in focus. This time around, the actor will be seen in a comedy, which is quite the opposite of the quiet and brooding character he played in his debut – RangiTaranga.
 
 Married to Dhanya.
 
 He’s the silent killer types.
  
 
