JAIPUR: The city’s streets seem to have become more dangerous with goons beating up people in full public view with impunity. In two separate incidents, unidentified goons armed with sticks and iron roads severely thrashed three people near Vatika Road and Vishwa Karma Industrial (VKI) area. The pedestrians recorded the chilling incident on their phones and quietly walked away.

 
 The state human rights commission has also taken a strong cognizance of the matter and sought a detailed report from the city police commissioner about the horrifying acts.
 
 
  
 The first incident was reported on Tuesday night at Vatika Road under the limits of   police station area, when at 9 pm at least 10 masked men attacked   (24) outside a marriage garden. The victim was rushed to a hospital by his friend who told cops that Sharma was beaten till he fell unconscious and began bleeding profusely.
 
 Sanganer Sadar police filed an FIR against unnamed persons but no arrests could be made till Thursday night. “The initial investigation indicates that both the victim and attackers belonged to the same community and knew each other,” said  , the investigation officer in the matter, adding that the case is being probed by the police. Footage retrieved from a nearby CCTV shows attackers getting out of two cars and thrashing the victim who tried to flee from the spot.
 
 In another chilling incident, two youths working as recovery agents were brutally attacked and beaten to pulp by three unidentified attackers on Wednesday at 9 am in full public view on   near Jodla power house.
 
 The two youths, Ajay Pal Singh and  , working as recovery agents were beaten for close to 30 minutes by goons who were armed with sticks and iron roads.
 
 Even as the victims cried for help, the passers-by did not intervene. Instead, they chose to record the video of the two victims writhing in pain and pleading attackers with folded hands to let them go.
 
 The VKI police station said that an FIR has been registered against the attackers. “We are trying to identify the suspects involved in the crime with the help of CCTV footage and photographs,” SHO Ratan Singh told TOI.
 
 While no breakthrough could be made in both cases even after more than 24 hours, the police have to identify the suspects. Both incidents took place on busy roads of the city, yet no police personnel arrived at the spot in time.
 
 The police admitted that two youths in VKI were beaten for close to 30 minutes.
 
  
 
 
 
