KOLKATA: Sections of a two-storeyed building in the   locality, which has collapsed five times in the past two decades, is set to become a model of re-development of dilapidated   — a vexed problem in the city which sees scores of insecure buildings crumbling down every year. 

 Last year, four buildings collapsed in a span of three months claiming eight lives. A majority of the buildings are located in north and central Kolkata and mired in litigations between landlords and tenants. Low rents did not cover maintenance cost, leading to poor upkeep.
 
 The spate of deaths prompted   to moot a scheme in 2016-end. The proposal was designed to address the concerns of both owners and tenants. According to it, the owner would get to redevelop twice the floorspace provided tenants got to retain the space they occupied before. However, sour relations between the conflicting parties meant no owner stepped forward to embrace the proposal.
 
 With no takers for a year,   decided to take a more proactive role and began to summon owners of listed insecure buildings. The special hearings began in November 2017 with owners being asked to clarify their stand on the reconstruction of the houses. 
 
 Though the first two hearings did not yield a positive result, the break came with the third hearing. Bhaskar Sinha, owner of a two-storeyed building on 6 Pratap Chatterjee Lane off College Street, was more than eager to take advantage of the KMC proposal and construct anew on a plot where the 150-year-old crumbling house currently stands. 
 
 There are 10 tenants who still reside in the crumbling building on 6 Pratap Chatterjee lane despite parts of it collapsing over the years.
 
 According to the pact, Sinha has to rehabilitate all 10 tenants during the reconstruction phase. Once the construction is complete, he will have to bring the tenants back, giving each as much space as he occupied in the old building.
 
 Encouraged by the breakthrough, rejuvenated officials of KMC building department are sending more notices to owners of dilapidated buildings and intend to motivate at least some of them to take up the generous offer. 
 
 “It is great that at least someone has stepped forward and agreed to redevelop his property which will make the lives of those who live in the building as well as those in the neighbourhood safer. We feel the reconstruction package will gather momentum once the Pratap Chatterjee Lane project is completed,” said Debasish Chakraborty, director-general (II) of KMC building department. 
 
 Sinha who now stays in a rented flat in Dhakuria is enthused about the project that will enable him to return to his original address once the building is redeveloped. “I have accepted the KMC scheme as it allows 100% additional FAR. This means in place of the two storeyed building that currently stands, I will be able to construct a four-storeyed building. I should be able to recover the construction cost from the additional space after accommodating the tenants,” he said. 
 
 
