Ahmedabad: John Somadina, 41, a Nigerian national living in New Delhi as Ramvir Pal, is considered a prize catch for internal security agencies. John, who goes by another half a dozen names, is considered the kingpin of a nationwide drug racket, worth about Rs 100 crore, which has seen no less than 12 foreign nationals arrested in the last nine months.

 Narcotics control bureau (NCB) officials said that a joint operation at Bengaluru railway station by its Ahmeadabad and Bengaluru zonal units — headed by Hari Om Gandhi and Sunil Sinha respectively — on the basis of specific inputs resulted in John being caught on March 4 as he was about to board a Delhi-bound train. He was brought to the city on transit remand was sent to judicial custody on March 8.
 
 
 Sources close to the development said John levereged a wide network of drug users and those in need of money to move contraband from one location to another. “His primary questioning revealed that he has extensive contacts in South American countries including Brazil, Venezuela, Bolivia and others, from where would source cocaine comparatively cheaply. More often than not, the cartels would receive heroin, which fetches a good price in South America,” said an official.
 
 John allegedly also got synthetic drugs made locally. “So far, 12 persons from countries such as Nigeria, Kenya, Venezuela, Vietnam, Colombia and Brazil with links to him have been arrested. Interestingly, he never spoke to the carriers and communicated through proxies to hide his identity. The drug mules would either swallow packets of the drugs or conceal them in their hand baggage,” said the official.
 
 Last June, NCB registered two major cases, in which John is thought to be involved. While Peter Okafor was held at Vadodara railway station with 843g of amphetamine, 255g cocaine and 65g of ecstasy tablets, all worth Rs 3.5 crore, John William Best was caught at Ahmedabad railway station with 587g of cocaine and 700g of amphetamine, worth Rs 6 crore. Both are Nigerian nationals.
 
 Investigations revealed that John has been living in India since 2014. In 2015, he allegedly destroyed his visa and passport. He would run a garments business as a front, which was probably used to launder the money nationally and internationally.
 
 
