KOLKATA: A four-hour extension of the shutdown for the primary runway maintenance triggered massive congestion at Kolkata airport on Friday afternoon and evening. Caught in the logjam were several flights, including the   flight on which chief minister   was travelling. This delayed her meeting with Patidar leader of Gujarat, Hardik Patel, by 45 minutes.

 The CM had boarded Indigo flight No. 6E534 at 4.35pm from Bagdogra airport that was supposed to land at the city airport at 5.45pm. It touched down at Kolkata at 5.54pm, nine minutes behind the scheduled arrival. The CM could only step out of the airport at 6:20pm. The directorate general of civil aviation considers flight delays only if it arrives 15 minutes beyond the scheduled arrival time. Patel who came to the state secretariat around 6pm had to wait at the CMO for 45 minutes to meet her. While entering  , a visibly irritated chief minister said, “There was a delay of 35 minutes. The plane was hovering in mid-air. I don’t know what happened.”
 
 “The airport is usually shut from 12.30pm to 2.30pm on Mondays, Wednesdays and Saturdays. But on Friday, the shutdown was extended for four hours due to additional maintenance work and inspection by senior   officials and returned to operation only at 5.56pm,” an airline official said.
  
 While the average flight delay was for 40-60 minutes, both airport and airline officials said the IndiGo flight from Bagdogra suffered the least delay as it landed in Kolkata exactly nine minutes after the scheduled arrival time. The flight ultimately touched down on the secondary runway at 5.54pm, barely two minutes before the primary runway became operational again.
 
 Following the CM’s remarks, a senior police officer visited the airport and inquired about the delay with the IndiGo airport manager. “The officer was explained the reason for the delay. He appeared satisfied when he left. But it was disconcerting to be singled out when all flights were facing delays,” an IndiGo official said.
 
 The flight had taken off from Bagdogra at 4.39pm, four minutes behind the scheduled departure time.
 
