CHANDIGARH:   ( ) has put the GST implementation on the hostel mess bills on hold. The varsity has written to the ministry of finance stating that being a government institution, the university hostel mess should be exempted from GST. The students had raised their concerns against the imposition of GST on the hostel mess bills. The university is now waiting for the response of the ministry. 

 "We have approached the ministry indicating them that in our university, we have appointed certain vendors to do this. But it's managed centrally by us. We do the central procurement of things and this is for the students only. There are two provisions and we were trying to convince them that we are under 2.1 and it should be exempted. Now, we are waiting for the ministry to confirm it and thereafter, we will do whatever we are directed to do," said PU registrar   (retd).
 
 A circular was released by the ministry of finance recently asking the educational institution to impose GST on bills. The university has sought exemption under para 2.1 of the ministry's notification. "It is submitted that Panjab University being a government institution, runs various hostels on its campus in which facility of student mess and canteen have been provided. A contractor is appointed by the university for mess/canteens to provide necessary food and other materials to the students. The diet charges and price of other material is determined by the university and the collection of the diet charges is done by the wardens of the hostels. In view of the facts explained, the university is of the view that for GST charges, mess/canteen in Panjab University falls under para 2.1 of your notification dated January 18, 2018," stated the communication sent by PU to the ministry of finance.
 
 The student bodies had also launched a protest against GST implementation on hostel mess bills. According to the notification, a total GST of 5% would have been levied on the total monthly hostel mess bill of a student, which would have increased the bill by around Rs 300 per month for a student. If implemented, the meal that used to cost Rs 33 would cost Rs 34.75. 
 
 
