CHENNAI: Long drawn out timetables for board exam students with unnecessarily long gaps between exams has irked parents who say that it is only extending the stressful period for students and could be planned better. 

 This has become a pattern over the years, say students and parents. This year too,   students in Class XI and Class XII   have a 10-day gap after their   paper before appearing for their computer science exam. Meanwhile Class X pupils have a break of nearly a week between two exams. Most of these exam schedules too are stretched out to last at least a month or beyond as they conclude only by mid-April. 
 
 Geeta S, parent of a Class X state board student says that a gap of 10 days is too long a break between exams during which students lose seriousness. “Last time also it was the same case for board students. With such a long gap, students can neither be focused on a pattern nor can they relax fully. Especially for Class X and Class XI, this much of a gap isn’t required,” she said. 
 
 A section of parents also said that it just delays vacation plans and it is better for the students to finish their exams and take a break once and for all. 
 
 It is a similar story with   exam timetables too. While Class X students are hunched over their books from March 5 to April 4, their seniors in Class XII have a   drawn out till April 12 due to various electives offered under CBSE. However, as they belong to different streams, many students are idle on many days due to these long gaps. 
 
 Some students were divided over these long gaps. Vinay, a class XII student, said that long study holidays in between exams just leads to more stress. “We are already burdened the whole year with so many revision exams. Two or three days of study holidays are more than enough for preparations,” he said. 
 
 Kokila, another Class XII student, however said that having a week or 10 days of study holidays for each exam is helpful as it gives sufficient time for revisions and practicing question papers. This, she said, is especially useful for commerce students as they need more practice. 
 
 Planning of exams for students of different streams naturally leads to gaps between subjects and is inevitable, say teachers. Aravind, a teacher, said that some gaps could be lessened by clubbing a few subjects. “While science students may belong to different groups like biology and computer science, they could sit for their respective subjects on the same day rather than planning it on two different days,” he observed. Some also said that electives with very few takers could also be clubbed and held on the same date. 
 
 
