COIMBATORE: Chief minister   assured that the new Ukkadam flyover will be constructed as per the original design, ending beyond L&T Toll Plaza at Athupalam.

 The CM laid foundation stones for Ukkadam Flyover and   Combined Water Supply Scheme at the mass marriage function held by AIADMK at Thondamuthur here on Monday.
 
 Reports that the flyover will not be useful since the original design is being changed are false, the CM said. “We will ensure that the commuters are benefitted. We are undertaking the project in three phases. The first phase involved the construction from Ukkadam Junction till Athupalam for a distance of 1.36km. This will be a four-lane elevated corridor. The second phase will include the construction of a two-lane elevated corridor for a distance of 345m from Ukkadam Junction to  . In the third phase, the elevated corridor will be for a distance of 284m from Town Hall till Uakkadam,” he said.
 
 The entire cost of the project will be Rs 215.51cr, including Rs 88.61cr for land acquisition and transfer of pipelines and electric posts.
 
 “The traffic congestion in this area is very high and sometimes, it takes more than an hour for it to get cleared,” Palaniswami said. He added that the project will benefit 10 lakh commuters.
 
 The project has been handed over to  , a Madurai-based company and will be completed within 30 months.
 
 Rural administration minister SP Velumani also assured that for the Gandhipuram Flyover, additional ramps will be added to make it more user-friendly at the Cross-cut Road Junction. “We have already started the study and will start the project soon,” he said.
 
 Talking about the Thondamuthur Combined Water Supply Scheme, Palaniswami said that the project estimated at Rs 130.46cr will benefit eight town panchayats and 10 village panchayats. The project aims at bringing an exclusive water supply scheme for areas such as Thondamuthur, Vedapatti, Thaliyur, Perur, Boluvampatti, Thenkarai and Alandurai, which will get 11.95MLD of additional water per day.
 
 Thirty-eight overhead tanks and 19 ground-level tanks will be set up in various town and village panchayats and distribution channels will also be set up from Veerapandi Pirivu till Thondamuthur. The project will benefit 1.44 lakh residents in 134 households in those areas.
 
 
