PUNE: A 22-year-old postgraduate student was found dead — hanging from the ceiling fan of her room — in the girls’ hostel on the   (SSPU) campus on Monday.

 Chatushrungi police found a note, purportedly written by the girl, from her room in hostel number 3. Though police suspect it to be a case of suicide, senior inspector   avoided sharing details of the note. “It is not a case of ragging or harassment by any other student,” he said. The girl belonged to   in   taluka of   district, he added.
 
 The girl allegedly ended her life on her birthday, on Monday. She was pursuing her MSc second-year studies at the SPPU’s department of botany. Dhome said the girl was found hanging in her room at around 1 pm. “We suspect she may have committed suicide sometime between 9 am and noon,” he said. Police have registered a case of accidental death.
 
 The student’s teachers were all shocked. Talking to TOI, they said the girl was a good student. Dhome said police have recorded the statements of her three roommates. They had all left the room before 9 am. The girl must have hanged herself using a dupatta. “A student, who was walking down the verandah, saw her hanging in the room through the open window and raised an alarm,” Dhome added.
 
 Abhijit Ghorpade, SPPU’s official spokesman, said, “The security guards called the police. The police opened the door and the student was taken to a medical facility. The doctors, however, pronounced her dead and her body was sent for post-mortem.”
 
 S A Salunkhe, the additional chief rector (women), said, “It’s her birthday. Her friends had celebrated her birthday at midnight and nothing was amiss. In fact, the girl called up her parents in the morning.” Salunkhe added the girl’s roommates were in a state of shock. 
 
 “These girls were friends. We have shifted them to other rooms. We are counselling them and have asked senior students to make sure they are not left alone,” said Salunkhe.
 
 Arvind Shaligram, the   registrar, said, “Her friends have said that she was not depressed. Her academic performance was above average. Even exam pressure cannot be a reason because the new term has just started. Her family members have come from Parner. Once the post-mortem is over, the body will be handed over to them. We are providing all assistance.”
 
 
