PATNA: As forecast earlier, skies over Patna and other areas were covered with clouds, followed by drizzles at isolated places on Monday. Such conditions are likely to prevail till Wednesday when couples will celebrate Valentine’s Day.

 Last week the   (IMD) had forecast that  , Odisha and some parts of   (particularly the southern districts), among several other states would witness showers from Sunday till Tuesday.
 
 The IMD in its all-India weather bulletin issued on Monday stated that thunderstorm or hailstorm was observed at isolated places over Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, west Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh,  , Odisha and Vidarbha between 2.30pm on Sunday to 8.30am on Monday morning. 
 
 The weather bulletin further stated that showers were expected at isolated places in Bihar on Tuesday as well. The   also issued forecast for cloudy skies in Patna and many other places in central and south Bihar till Wednesday. Cloudy weather conditions along with showers are also expected to result in a drop in the maximum temperature by two to four degrees C.
 
 According to the bulletin, “Interaction between current western disturbance and low level easterlies is taking place over the northwestern plains and adjoining central India. It may cause scattered to fairly widespread precipitation over northern and central India during the next 24 hours. Isolated thunderstorm with hailstorm is also likely over northern and eastern India during the next 24 hours and over parts of northeastern India on February 13 and 14.”
 
 Private weather forecasting agency Skymet Weather also forecast that places like Gaya, Patna, Aurangabad, Nawada, Jamui and Banka will witness rainfall. The approaching spell of rain is, however, most likely to evade northern parts of the state. Although rain is normally beneficial for crops, those which are almost ready to be harvested may be damaged due to squally winds with isolated hailstorm activity.
 
 The private weather agency further stated that weather mostly remains dry during the month of February and this rainfall is unseasonal. However, the occurrence of a strong western disturbance (WDs) and an induced cyclonic circulation over the northern plains lead to rainfall as is happening now.
 
 WDs are low-pressure areas or extra-tropical storms originating from the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea which cause winter snow or rainfall in the northwestern Indian subcontinent.
 
 IMD stated that a WD was situated over Pakistan and adjoining east Afghanistan, while an induced cyclonic circulation was lying over west Rajasthan and neighbourhood. The two systems have together led to cloudy and rainy conditions in the region which is likely to subside by Thursday.
 
 
