JHUNJHUNU: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s penchant for acronyms was once again on show at the launch of nutrition mission in   on Thursday.

 “When you hear  , think of ‘Poshan Mission’,” he said while inaugurating the National Nutrition Mission and expanding the   ( ) programme across the country.
 
 “When someone says PM, be it to criticize or to complement, it is the poshan (nutrition) mission that should come to your mind and not  ,” he said, addressing an impressive gathering on a hot, windy afternoon.
 
 “I have not come here by myself, it’s you the people who have pulled me to Jhunjhunu,” he said, praising the efforts of the district administration in improving the sex ratio under BBBP.
 
 “Be it war or drought, Jhunjhunu has never learnt to bow down. This district knows to fight back and because of this, the BBBP programme is being taken forward from Jhunjhunu. The entire country will take inspiration from the district,” he said.
 
 Speaking on female infanticide, he said, “In the 18th century, when a girl was born, people used to drown her in a big utensil filled with milk. But, we are even worse than them. They at least allowed girls to be born before killing them. She could see the face of her mother and the mother could also see the child’s face. Today, we misuse technology and kill girls in the womb of the mother,” Modi said, adding that the damage being done through generations would take another two to three generations to be rectified.
 
 “A ‘jan andolan’ (public revolution) is needed to save the girl child and to improve the nutrition levels among girls,” he said, calling for mass participation and pointing out how mothers-in-law can take a lead in bringing about change.
 
 He also spoke about the importance of breastfeeding, preventing child marriages and basic hygiene along with providing nutritious food in the fight against malnutrition.
 
 The venue was jam packed with a large number of girl students, women and general public. Apart from Jhunjhunu, people from the surrounding districts of   and Churu were also present.
 
 In her address, chief minister Vasundhara Raje said, “A lot of work has been done under BBBP in Jhunjhunu and it’s a matter of pride that it’s among the top 10 districts of the country for implementation.”
 
 While praising women of the state who have carved a niche for themselves in different fields, she said, “Our daughters are precious. An empowered daughter strengthens the family, state and country.”
 
 Union minister for women and child development Maneka Gandhi said, “A dedicated forensic laboratory for rape victims is coming up in Chandigarh for early investigations and checking evidences.” She also said that the ministry would encourage recruiting women in the police force.
 
 
