Panaji: After years of sluggish progress, the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) has initiated a roadmap for quick approvals and time-bound clearance of pending files. For the first time in the state, applications for sublease or transfer of industrial plots will now be deemed to be approved if the GIDC does not process the applications within 21 days. The new rules, which have been notified in the GIDC Transfer and Sub-lease Regulations 2018, will apply to scores of such applications that have been pending with the corporation’s screening committee for over a year. “The industry, in a representation to the government, had stated that the process of allotment, transfer and sublease of GIDC plots continues to be affected by inordinate delays, indecision, misinterpretation, confusion, heavy levies and penalties. This has adversely affected industrial activity,” GIDC managing director Narayan Gad said. As per the new regulations, once a transfer or sublease application is received by the corporation, a decision has to be conveyed to the applicant within 21 days, failing which the application shall be deemed to have been approved. However, all pending dues have to be cleared before GIDC begins processing the application. The new regulations have cheered up the industry not only because ease of doing business in the state is expected to improve, but also because industrial land currently not used for manufacturing will be used efficiently. “The important feedback from the industry was that there was no timeline for approvals. There were applications pending for 1.5 years. It was decided that the GIDC must have a timeline to bring in discipline,” Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Sandip Bhandare said.  As per the new regulations, which have come into force, no industrial plot can be transferred or subleased without approval from the GIDC. Plots where no construction has taken place can also not be transferred or sublet. The government will also constitute a special committee to settle disputes pertaining to transfer or sublease of industrial plots.