KOLKATA: Intrigued by Satyajit Ray’s  , experts at   Kharagpur have started a research on his film scripts. The electronics department of the institute has begun the two-pronged research.

 Ray’s collection of kheror khata, where the director wrote the scripts of his films, were donated to the institute in 2016 by the legendary director’s son Sandip Ray. These red notebooks form the research material, which the experts are carefully studying.
 
 While researchers are trying to arrive at a digital conclusion about the singular language of Ray’s films, efforts are on to run the optical character recognition (OCR) on the handwritten film scripts for digitising them.
 
 Faculty members, who are studying the different volumes of kheror khatafeel Ray’s style of writing scripts was way different from other traditionally written scripts. “He punctuated the text with annotations and illustrations, which might have worked as reminders or markers for a later event in the film or even as a trigger for another story/film. We are trying to corelate the text from the script with these annotations and illustrations,” said Prabir Biswas, head of the electronics department of the institute, who is leading the research.
 
 The researchers feel Ray might have used unique codes while writing his script. These might be hidden inside the annotations and illustrations. Since Ray was a trained artist from  , many feel his illustrations have a completely different quality. These works are called cinematic illustrations. The IIT Kharagpur researchers are trying to study these details through algorithms they have created on which the scripts will be plotted.
 
 While this wing of research is at a nascent stage still, the other one, that of digitising the Ray’s scripts from their handwritten version to a typed format through the OCR, has progressed quite a bit. Digitisation of hand written documents is quite a trend in case of English language scripts but it is still being experimented in case of Bengali. “We have plans to work on both Tagore and Ray, but since kheror khatawas readily available at the institute, we got a ready reference point and started with it,” Biswas added.
 
 On May 2, the National Digital Library(NDL), that is hosted by the institute, to digitise books and disseminate among common people, will showcase five Ray scripts from his kheror khata. “On this occasion scripts of Nayak, Sonar Kella, Gupi Gayen Bagha Bayen, Apur Sansar and Paraspathar will be highlighted. We will tag them through social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter,” said Partha Pratim Das, faculty in charge of the NDL.
 
 Sandip Ray sounded happy by NDL’s move. “Yes, this will indeed help many people to appreciate Ray. I only hope that they stick to low resolution images because high resolution images might trigger a lot of copying,” Ray said.
 
 
