PHILLAUR (JALANDHAR): Aiming to empower cops to meet the challenges of modern policing, Punjab chief minister   on Wednesday announced an annual grant of Rs 2 crore for advanced training of police personnel of all ranks –– from constables to Punjab Police Service (PPS) officers –– in the best national and international training centres. 
  
 Addressing a batch of new recruits –– 18 deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) and 494 sub-inspectors (the largest ever group of directly recruited officials in these ranks) –– at   (PPA) in Phillaur, the CM also expressed his pleasure seeing a large number of women (196 in all, including seven DSPs) among the probationers. 
  
 Amarinder cited the unique challenges faced by the Punjab Police to underline the importance of training to help them remain abreast of the latest challenges in terms of equipment and technology. 
  
 On a nostalgic note, the CM recalled that his father had passed out from the same academy nearly 100 years ago. The parade also revived memories of his own training at the NDA back in 1963, he said. 
  
 Referring to the historic Phillaur fort, where the academy is located, the CM congratulated PPA for its role in preserving the historic monument and announced a grant of Rs 3 crore for the repair and restoration of the museum, old classrooms and hostels. PPA director   was also present on the occasion. 
  
 The CM conferred a police medal for gallantry. He also presented President’s Police Medals for distinguished services to seven officers, including, director of vigilance bureau B K Uppal, IGP Gurpreet Deo, DIG Ranbeer Singh Khatra, AIG Arun Saini and ADGP  . 
  
 
  
  
 Asked about the Maur blast case in which Punjab Police officials found that the car used in the crime was painted in a workshop of Dera Sacha Sauda in Sirsa, the CM said the probe was at an advanced stage and disclosures would be made at an appropriate time. Punjab DGP Suresh Arora said the accused had been identified and they were proclaimed offenders. 
  
  
