DHAKA: Most TV viewers in   have a common grouse. So do many artistes from this part of the world. While Bengali serials produced in India are extremely popular on this side of the border, no content from the Bangladeshi small screen is available to viewers in Bengal. 

 When Bangladesh minister of information Hasanul Haq Inu was asked where the glitch lies, he told TOI it is a ‘fee issue’. “I am trying to talk to the ministry in India to find a solution,” Inu said. 
 
 
  
 
 
 The lack of clarity in terms of downlinking fees is creating the problem. Producer Himanshu Dhanuka, who has done a number of Indo-Bangladesh co-productions, said: “International channel downlinking procedure and licence fees are the same for any international channel.” There is no ban on Bangladesh in particular, Dhanuka added.
 
 “If a company/channel has to broadcast in India, the Indian government rules state that the original company establishment has to have a net worth in the base country of Rs 5 crore. That doesn’t mean Rs 5 crore is the downlinking fee in India. Rs 15 la-kh per annum is the downlinking fee in India for channels uplinked from abroad. In co-mparison, the fee per year in Bangladesh is 1.5 lakh taka,” said Mazharul Haque Chowdhury, executive director of I Positive Communications Ltd/Channel i that has aired serials like ‘Hing Ting Chot’, ‘Shukno Patar Nupur’ and ‘Saat Bhai Champa’.
 
  
  
 
 
 However, important Bangladeshi channels are yet to take the plunge to venture into the Indian market. “If any foreign channel has to be downlinked in India, permission has to be sought from the I&B ministry. Bangladeshi channels have to be interested in getting someone in India to do this job. No Bangladeshi channel has ever approached us to do this job,” said Dheeraj Sharma, senior manager (marketing), Planetcast Media Services Ltd, that is downlinking two Chinese channels in India. 
 
 “CCTV of China has been downlinked in India. I am representing the channel in India and taking a fee from CCTV and submitting it to the Indian government. We are paying Rs 15 lakh a year. In Bengal, a foreign channel owner has to pay Rs 2-3 crore a year to the cable operators for its programmes to be distributed,” Sharma said.
 
 Finally, it’s a demand and supply issue. According to Bangladeshi actors, there is a demand for the kind of content produced by them in India. “I get calls from people in Bengal about why my serials can’t be seen in Kolkata. Some watch it on YouTube. But viewing it at home on television is a different experience. Bengal is missing out on our works,’ said actor Abul Hayaat, who has directed ‘Teen Pagoler Holo Mela’’, a serial that was recently shown on Channel i in Bangladesh. 
 
 However, Dhanuka isn’t yet convinced about the demand for Bangladeshi small-screen content in India. "In India, we have more premium Bengali content available and the audience has little demand for Bangladeshi content. In Bangladesh, there is demand for Hindi and Indian Bengali content. That’s why people have gone ahead and taken downlinking permissions, paid license fees and distributors there are investing into it."
 
 Besides, the distribution cost involved in India needs huge investment. Till channels in Bangladesh decide on taking risks to make such investments, watching their small screen content in India will remain a dream.
 
 
