We talk a lot about our pet’s health, nutrition, visits to vets, but we often forget a tiny but crucial step: Taking care of their teeth. The first thing we do when we get up is brush our teeth. Imagine how your teeth would look and feel if you didn’t brush them for years – or even for a couple of weeks. Well, your pet is no different. If you are overlooking their dental care, you are ignoring an important part of your pet’s overall health and wellness.

 
 Ever since we have started domesticating cats and dogs, due to lack of oral hygiene, a lot of   end up suffering from dental disease. According to global studies, and the  , more than 80 per cent dogs show signs of dental disease by the age of three. It starts with a build-up of plaque. Plaque eventually turns to tartar, and quickly forms small pockets where an animal’s gums meet its teeth. The gums can separate from the tooth; this allows more bacteria and food to accumulate and this build-up leads to periodontal disease – which can allow bacteria to now enter the bloodstream. This in turn leads to more serious health problems, including heart, lung, and kidney diseases, if left untreated. 
 
 The challenging part is that there are no clear cut symptoms to help pet parents identify whether their pet is suffering from a dental problem. Because of this, 90 per cent of owners think their dog’s teeth and gums are healthy. 
 
 Dental diseases cause a lot of discomfort and pain to pets, so notice if your dog has problem chewing usual food, and look out for bad smell from his/her mouth. Uncontrolled gum disease can affect vital organs like liver, kidney and heart.
 
 Also, chronic pain in the gums or teeth can result in behavioural changes that affect the family-pet bond. 
 
 
 Here are some simple measures you should take to keep your furry friend’s mouth healthy.
 
  Regular brushing is best way to keep your pet’s teeth clean and free from gum diseases. The most effective way to prevent plaque accumulation is regular brushing at least three times a week in healthy mouth or immediately after professional teeth cleaning. 
 
 A child’s nylon toothbrush, dipped in a toothpaste made for dogs, should be used. Start by brushing the front teeth, with a downward motion on the top teeth and upward on the lower teeth – the same way we are supposed to brush our own teeth. After your dog gets used to this new activity, start brushing teeth farther back in the mouth. Do not use toothpastes made for humans, which can cause nausea in dogs if swallowed. An alternative to brushing is using a dental chew. Since very few dogs receive regular tooth brushing, controlling plaque accumulation is difficult.
 
 
  Have your pet’s teeth checked and cleaned at least twice a year by a veterinarian. This will help you diagnose a problem and will help you manage a major infection before it manifests itself into a bigger health complication. 
 
 
  Feeding your dog good food helps in many ways, including keeping his teeth healthy. Quality food will nourish his body, which also means stronger teeth. Homemade meals have more chances of sticking to your dog’s teeth. A published study said that feeding only a dry diet was beneficial for oral health in cats and dogs. Tooth brushing and the offering of dental treats were very effective in maintaining oral health, provided they were practiced daily. 
 
 
  Chew toys and snacks are great for scraping plaque off of your dog’s teeth and can be a great supplement to brushing.
 
 
 
  
 
 - Cats sleep for 70 per cent of their lives, that’s two thirds of their lives.
 - Dogs have whiskers that actually help them to see in the dark by acting as sensory receptors that helps them move in the dark.
 - Kitten and puppies are born blind and deaf, i.e., they are born with eyes and ear canals closed and it takes them about two weeks after birth to start seeing or hearing anything.
 - Dogs can sense pregnancy in humans, they can smell the hormonal change in a woman’s body.
 
 (Byline: Dr Umesh Kallahalli) 
 
 Are you a proud pet parent? Have a cute cat story to share? Maybe your guinea pig is giving you trouble? Whatever is your creature companion, we are here to listen to you. Send your photos, queries and stories to timeslife@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
