NEW DELHI: A 21-year-old youth was hit by a   while trying to   after snatching a pedestrian’s new phone in southeast Delhi’s   on Friday morning. The snatcher’s associate, who was on a bike, and the truck driver sped off after the incident and are yet to be traced.

 A passerby called the PCR after which cops rushed the injured   to a hospital where he was declared dead.
 
 The snatching victim,  , said that he was walking on the footpath on the way to his house in Okhla Camp. He got a call from a friend and started talking to him. Suddenly, the bikers sped towards him and the pillion rider snatched his phone. “Even though I was holding the phone tightly, the snatching was so swift that I lost hold of it. My father had gifted the phone to me, so I started chasing the bikers,” Yadav told the police.
 
 Yadav chased the bikers for a short distance and managing to the catch hold of the rear handrail of the bike. The rider, however, started revving the engine to make Yadav lose his grip, but when he held on firmly the pillion rider, Sandeep, got off the bike and decided to flee on foot.
 
 
  
 As soon as Sandeep got off, the bike swerved a little making Yadav lose his grip. While his accomplice sped off on the bike, Sandeep tried to get into a narrow lane nearby. However, he was hit by the truck in the process. He was taken to   where he was declared dead. Yadav was also given treatment there.
 
 Police said that they recovered the stolen phone from Sandeep, which was clutched in his hand. “We have informed the family members of the deceased and have formed teams to look for his associate. We are also trying to identify the truck that killed Sandeep,” said DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal.
 
 A case has been registered at Okhla Industrial Area police station. Cops have found no criminal record of Sandeep and suspect that this may have been his first attempt at snatching. He used to live with his family in Govindpuri. His body was handed over to his family after autopsy.
 
 
