PATIALA: The state government on Wednesday expressed its inability to clear the entire power subsidy bill and sought more time from the   (PSERC). The government said there was a major disruption in the release of power subsidy to the   (PSPCL) due to Good and   (GST) and diversion of Rs 3,000 crore on ‘food account.’

 In its reply filed before the PSERC in response to petition for discontinuation of power subsidies in case of default in payment, the government admitted that subsidy payable to the PSPCL for the year 2017-18 was Rs 11,542 crore and the government had released a sum of Rs 3,372 crore, which has been paid in cash, and Rs 2,304 crore has been adjusted against the subsidy bill.
 
 Taking up the petition that had been filed by  , former chief engineer of now disbanded   (PSEB), who had sought discontinuation of power subsidy and imposition of full tariff on all categories of consumers, including farmers in case the government defaulted in release of payments, the regulator heard the reply filed by the state government. The petition had been filed under sections 62, 5 and 86 of the Electricity Act, 2003.
 
 The petitioner submitted that the subsidy payment details put up on the website of the PSPCL show that no subsidy was released to the power corporation in August, September, October and November 2017. The government released a sum of Rs 100 crore in December 2017 and Rs 50 crore in January 2018 against the monthly subsidy bill of Rs 909.78 crore.
 
 He contended that this proved that there was a huge noncompliance of commission’s orders as well as Section 65 of Electricity Act 2003, under which it was mandatory for the government to release monthly subsidies in advance.
 
 The representatives of the PSPCL, who were also present during the hearing, said the power corporation was in dire need of money as it had not been able to pay the salaries of its employees for the month of January.
 
 Bringing on record, the PSERC stated that the   finance department has conceded that as per Electricity Act, 2003, the government was liable to pay for the power subsidies in advance, but, it also admitted that the financial position of the state is not so good and thus the release of power subsidy payment was held up. The department said the state government was committed to disbursing the entire subsidy and sought more time from the commission.
 
 
