A mundane day for the students of Awadh Girls' Degree College turned into a hilarous one as TV actor   paid a visit to their college and interacted with them, recently. Nigam, who was in Lucknow to promote his latest show ' ' – a satirical take on Indian politics – discussed with the girls the state of politics and politicians in the country. The inquisitive and excited students were happy to meet the comedian and had a long list of questions to ask the actor who plays a neta in the show. 
Nigam broke the ice by introducing himself as Shri Chaitu Lal from the Thenga party, the chief minister of a fictitious state, who is known for fooling innocent citizens by making false promises. Keeping things light hearted, Rajeev said to the girls, "It is very funny when sometimes people actually take me to be a real mukhya mantri of a state because of my attire. Bada mazaa aata hai jab log jhuk ke mujhe namaskar karte hain. It’s great to treated as a CM, bhale hi woh ek hi din ke liye ho. What I liked best with you all here is that you all are taking selfies with me. Warna hamare jaise netaon ke saath selfie kaun leta hai!" 
 The actor, who hails from Kanpur, believes that the people of UP are carefree and bindass. "I'm having no difficulty in playing a politician in my show as people in UP are born politicians. Hum bachpan se uss mahaul main badhte hain. So there was no challenge for me when it came to essaying a politician's role. Yahan hum sab neta hote hain. People here in UP are well versed with politics that’s why we have such great leaders from the state," said Nigam, adding that he has experienced the bhaukaal of Lucknowites on several occasion. "People here have their own swag. Bada bhaukaal hota hai UP walon ka har jagah. But, in our show, we have not targeted any specific politician or party. We have instead gone soft with our satirical punches in the show." 
 
  
  Dr Upma Chaturvedi, Rajeev Nigam discussing politics at the Awadh Girls’ Degree College, Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui) 
 
 And while the girls insisted upon discussing serious issues like medical aid, pollution and corruption, Rajeev refused to bite the bullet. "See I am an imaginary neta in the show. I can not solve these issues in real life. Through the show, I can only make people aware of the problems and how they should not be gullible. For example, we have discussed toilets being built in villages. The reality is that there are very few toilets actually being built. They have been built but are being used for everything else except as toilets. Toilet is nowadays not a place where one goes in the morning, in villages, they have become a place where one sets up a shop or starts a business from. Even I had this kind of problem in my village where it comprised of only three walls and no door, water and no commode, and someone had actually written ' ' outside it."
 The girls’ complaint of seeing garbage strewn everywhere was met with a humourous rejoinder by Rajeev who said, "Now if the elections were near, some neta would have come and the garbage would have been cleared immediately. Or netaji would have cleaned a little bit of the garbage and had his pictures flashed on the social media. Unka kaam bhi ho jata, aur aapka bhi."
 Talk then got around to the stand up comedian’s personal life. The actor reminisced the days spent in his hometown Kanpur. "Woh masti, chaurahe baazi, the college canteen fun, the midnight kulhadh wali chai, kulhadh wali lassi and so many things about Kanpur that I miss in Mumbai. Yahan ke padosiyon ko aapke ke ghar ke baare mein zyada pata hota hai, unlike in Mumbai where sometimes you don’t even know who your neighbours are. I miss the mauj-masti of Kanpur and Lucknow in Mumbai. It’s so endearing when someone just comes from behind you, aapki peeth thok ke poochhta hai 'Ama yaar kahan ho itne dino se?' This kind of affection and care is so common here, but not in Mumbai."
  — Prachi Arya
 
 
