COIMBATORE: Fifty supporters of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader TTV Dhinakaran were arrested after a violent clash erupted between them and   cadre near   in the city on Thursday night. 

 According to police sources, AMMK members participated in an indoor meeting held on   on Thursday evening. When they were returning home after the meeting in more than 25 cars, a group of AIADMK cadres gathered on Vadavalli-Thondamuthur Road and started to attack the vehicles belonging to Dhinakaran's supporters. More than 10 cars were damaged in the clash. To condemn the attack, TTV supporters blocked the busy Vadavalli Road for more than an hour.
 
 R P Nagarajan, secretary of AMMK, Ramanathapuram, told TOI that the Coimbatore south district unit of the party had decided to conduct nine indoor meetings in nine different areas to develop the party and increase the cadre base. Four meetings were already over and the fifth indoor meeting was supposed to take place in a marriage at Vadavalli. 
 
 But AIADMK cadre besieged the house of the marriage hall owner and threatened him not to provide the hall to AMMK. “So, we shifted the venue of the indoor meeting to the area secretary's house located at Lakshmi Nagar on Vadavalli-Thondamuthur Road,” he said. 
 
 “When we were returning to our homes in cars after the meeting, we were waylaid by more than 200 AIADMK cadres who attacked the cars. More than 10 cars were damaged in the clash. Windshields and glasses were damaged,” said Nagarajan. Though supporters of Dhinakaran managed to escape, a few women cadres suffered minor injuries. 
 
 To condemn the attack,  , secretary of AMMK, and more than 200 cadres blocked Marudhamalai Road. They demanded action against the AIADMK cadres.
 
 Only one police officer was at the spot and tried to pacify the protestors. Senior police officials reached the spot around 10.30pm and held talks with the protesters.
 
 When the protesters intensified their protest, the police arrested 50 supporters of TTV. 
 
 " AIADMK leaders are not ready to accept our growth. So, they indulged in violence. We conveyed the issues to our leader. We are demanding the police to take stringent action against the AIADMK cadres who were involved in the clash, " said Nagarajan.
 
 
