Ludhiana: On a day when the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) revised the date of Class XII physical education exam that was earlier clashing with JEE mains, only a section of students were happy with the move.

 Left in a tight spot due to little gap between major exams, students had hoped that the CBSE would address their concerns too.
 
 The physical education exam, which was earlier scheduled for April 9, has now been postponed to April 13.
 
 “I expected the CBSE to change the entire datesheet. Though the date of physical education exam gave us some headache, exams of other subjects which have no gaps in between were also a major concern,” said Vritika Jain, a student of Alpine International School.
 
 Some students who weren’t appearing for JEE mains had no reason to be happy. “This is not at all fair. CBSE failed to see our problem. We don’t have a single day to prepare in between some of our exams. I think CBSE should consider our request as well,” said Tamanna Sharma, a student of Harkrishan Public School.
 
 “The datesheet is balanced now. It is quite satisfactory. The issue which was disturbing students has been resolved,” said Harmeet Kaur, principal, Nankana Sahib Public School.
 
 Gunwant Kaur, principal, Guru Nanak International school, said those not appearing for JEE mains will face some stress as they don’t have gap in between exams. “It is a great relief only for a section of students,” she said.
 
 “I think it’s a big relief for many as JEE mains is of immense importance. The earlier date of physical education exam might have spoiled results for both the exams,” said Sonali Wadhwa, mother of a student appearing for Class XII exam.
 
 “I am quite satisfied with the datesheet. I was really worried about my JEE mains, but now I’m quite relaxed,” Prabhshaan Chawla
 
 “Does CBSE think that a student can prepare for exams without any gap in between? Changing date of physical education exam was fine, but what about other exams?” Ananat dandona
 
 “It hadn’t made much difference to me as I wasn’t giving JEE mains. The stress is still the same for me. It’s really unfair”
 
 Divya Sharma
 
 “I was tense about my JEE main exam and I was even planning to skip my physical education exam. But now, my tension has reduced a bit. I'll give both my exams
 
 Sachnoor Jaggi 
 
 
