PUNE: The India Meteorological Department ( ) has in its recent report ruled out the possibility of   till August this year, indicating a positive development for monsoon in 2018.

 The department has also said the   conditions are expected to prevail till June 2018. IMD experts said as per the current forecasts, an El Nino-like situation is unlikely for the better part of this year and this could be a run-up to a normal monsoon if other weather parameters work in favour.
 
 The IMD’s December 2017 El Nino Southern Oscillation ( ) bulletin stated that La Nina conditions are currently prevailing over the equatorial Pacific Ocean. The latest forecast indicates that these conditions are likely to persist at least till 2018 spring.
 
 The bulletin stated that there is a maximum possibility of the La Nina conditions till April, May and June 2018, after which chances of neutral conditions (when there is neither El Nino nor La Nina) increase from March, April and May to the the first three months of monsoon — June, July and August.
 
 A senior IMD official told TOI that as per the forecasts till now, the La Nina conditions may continue till the middle of 2018. “This will give way to neutral conditions. As a result, no negative impact on monsoon is expected. But the downside is that La Nina may not persist beyond June. This phenomenon is usually associated with above-normal rain during monsoon,” the official said, adding that the upcoming forecasts will give a clearer picture of the scenario.
 
 Extreme sea surface temperature conditions over the Pacific, particularly El Nino, or La Nina conditions over the Pacific and positive   Dipole development over the equatorial Indian Ocean, are known to have strong influences on the Indian summer monsoon.
 
 El Nino is an abnormal warming of the ocean surface in central and eastern equatorial Pacific and is usually associated with weak monsoons. La Nina, on the other hand, is the cooling phase that is thought to help monsoons.
 
 Climate scientist Roxy Mathew Koll from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology said, “Global climate models indicate that the current La Nina conditions (cool east Pacific) will persist until early spring (March-April) and then weaken.” 
 
 He added, “Though the La Nina conditions may weaken during spring, we can still expect neutral-to-cool ocean temperatures in the east Pacific during summer (June-July). These conditions should be ideally favourable for a normal summer monsoon in 2018. It is, however, too early to comment on the upcoming monsoon.”
 
 
