CHENNAI: Against the backdrop of a few   in the state coming under the scanner for various irregularities, governor   has urged vice chancellors to “ensure transparency and maintain integrity and dignity” of the institutions of higher education.

 At a meeting on Saturday in  , the governor saidtheincident in  , where then vice-chancellor A Ganapathiwas arrestedon February 3 over charges of accepting bribe for appointment, was a blot on the system.
 
 Stressing that all appointments should be made only on the basis of merit and that vice-chancellors should work on gaining a good name, the governor urged the VCs to uphold the integrity of their posts.
 
 R Rajagopal, additional chief secretary to the governor, and  , higher education principal secretary, were present at the meeting attended by 17 vicechancellors of various state universities.
 
 Any complaint of corruption raised must be acted upon immediately and those involved should be penalised, the governor said, adding that transparency in all administrative procedures, including calling for tenders, employment and filling of vacancies, should be maintained and proper procedures followed. With regard to financial activities, proper accounts must be maintained to guarantee transparency, he said.
 
 
 
 
 “Ultimately equipping students with the required skills and making them employable has to be top priority for universities. That was one thing the governor wanted all VCs to understand,” said an official who attended the meeting.
 
 A few other officials who were present on the occasion said the discussions also focused on National Institutional Ranking Framework ( ) ranking, funding in universities, employment opportunities and ongoing activities on campuses.
 
 Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University vice-chancellor V Geethalakshmi said it was a very interactive session where the participants debated on how to achieve high rankings for respective universities, ensuring transparency in the administrative processes, and how to help students get the best out of the system. “The main aim was to ensure that Tamil Nadu should be at the top when it comes to its institutions. Heads of the institutions were told that since we maintain high positions, we need to maintain that dignity and work towards preserving the name of the institution,” she said.
 
 P P Chelladurai, vice-chancellor of  , said the meeting discussed improving standards of universities with emphasis on filling teaching vacancies at the earliest. The governor advised all vicechancellors to act independently without fear to improve the standards of their universities and also to empower their students to enhance job opportunities, he added.
 
 A request for a search committee to fill the vacancies in the Tamil Nadu Physical Education and Sports University was also put forth.
 
