GANDHINAGAR: The   has decided to reintroduce the   in the state assembly, after the versions of the bill sent in 2015 and 2017 were rejected by the  , which required further changes. The bill has been widely opposed by the  , which also represented before the   in 2015, that the amendments brought in the bill defeated the purpose of the original Act of 1960.

 A source close to the development said, “The bill will be reintroduced in the ongoing budget session incorporating all changes suggested by the Centre. The Union government had pointed out clauses in the bill which were contradictory to other laws or ambiguous.”
 
 In its written memorandum in 2015 against the bill sent to the President of India, the Congress had stated that the main purpose of the Gujarat Agricultural Lands Ceiling Act of 1960 was to acquire surplus agricultural land and allot it to agricultural cooperative societies and the needy with first preference to cooperatives run by members of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. The land was also to be acquired for government-owned or controlled corporations for full and efficient use of surplus agricultural land, or for landless labourers, small farmers, cattle breeders and others in need of land.
 
 The memorandum had read, “ Recently, after the judgment of the Supreme Court, the government is to receive surplus grassland worth crores of rupees. If these lands are given to landless persons, farm labourers and farmers’ families with small land holding in Gujarat, it would transform the needy class.”
 
 Congress stated further in the memorandum, “But, now the government of Gujarat is eyeing this land with corrupt and greedy intention, and hence, this Gujarat Agricultural Land Ceiling (Amendment) Bill, 2015 has been brought. With this amendment bill, the purpose of the original Act to protect the interests of the needy people is killed altogether.”
 
 No approval yet for GCTOC bill
 Government of India has yet not approved another controversial bill, the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime Bill, 2015 (GCTOC). The bill has been brought in multiple versions since 2003 but has been rejected. Gujarat government has also stopped following up for approval of the GCTOC.
 
