Coimbatore: The insect museum on the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) campus, which was inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami about a month ago, is yet to be opened to the public. 

 When TOI visited the museum on Tuesday, its main entrance was closed. Sources in the university said work was being carried out inside the museum. “We have been working on removing damaged specimens in exhibits and replacing them with good ones. The work is in its final stage,” said a source from TNAU.
 
 Besides, discussion on ticket pricing was in progress, said a professor from the university. “We need to open an account for collecting the ticket fare. All the university’s financial transactions would be done through proper channel after passing them through the comptroller,” said the professor.
 
 He said officials in the university were busy over review meetings. “The museum would need experts who would guide visitors through the exhibits. But as the professors are all busy with review meetings, the work on it is a bit slow. But we will soon open the museum for the public,” he said.
 
 The museum has preserved and live specimens of insects. “We need people to manage the live specimens and take care of the preserved ones. We want to ensure everything is in place before we open the museum for public. We would soon decide on the opening date,” the professor said. 
 
 When contacted, vice-chancellor K Ramasamy said if people wanted to visit the museum, they could inform us and we would open it for them. “We closed the main entrance to protect the glass panes inside the museum,” he said. 
 
 The museum, claimed to be the first of its kind in the country, has been constructed at a cost of Rs 5 crore on 6,691sqft. It has exhibit area which has seven radial walls with displays under themes such as insect diversity, insect biology, beneficial insects and cultural entomology. Besides, curated specimens of 27 insect orders are displayed. 
 
 The museum has TV screens which display insect-related information, insect-shaped dioramas and a souvenir shop.
 
 
