RAISEN: ‘You are about to enter the home of God’s most beautiful creation,’ reads the sign outside the dome-shaped conservatory in Raisen’s  . You couldn’t agree more. The moment you enter the white dome, with a big green-andblack butterfly — a Tailed   — painted on it, it’s like stepping into a different world.

 The sound of a waterfall greets you and tiny butterflies flutter around, hovering over flowers and trees of every imaginable colour. The signs advise you speak in whispers, or not at all. You wouldn’t want to, any way.
 
 Situated on  , 4km ahead of   in   village, the Butterfly Conservation and Interpretation Centre boasts of only the second domeshaped butterfly conservatory in the country. The first one is in Bengaluru.
 
 The Titli Park is spread across 3 hectares and was inaugurated last month. After a 90-minute drive from Bhopal and Rs 10 at the entrance, a short walk through a garden takes you to the in-situ conservatory, straddling 10,000 sq ft of flowers. The dome is built of polycarbonate material and has humidifiers and foggers to maintain a temperature of 30-32 degrees Celsius — comfy for butterflies.
 
 There are over 100 varieties of plants in and around the dome. As many as 65 species of butterflies, endemic to  , visit the park. Inside the dome, however, there are 25 species and 120 butterflies in all. It’s easy to spot the Common Gull, Plain Tiger and Red Peirrot but wait for exotic ones like Common Leopard, Blue Tiger, Blue Pansy, Grey Pansy and White Orange Tip to show themselves. It’s worth the wait.
 
 The ideal day to plan a trip would be a sunny one, when the butterflies can be seen fluttering from one flower to another. On a cloudy day, they hide beneath the leaves. The key is non-interference — if the butterflies do not show themselves, don’t bang on the dome to make them come out. The little ones may just die of fear. The lights are shut around the park as soon as it gets dark to keep their daily timetable regulated.
 
 There are two types of plants in the park — host and nectar. Host plants are those on which the butterfly lays eggs and nectar plants are those from which it takes food.
 
 Taking care of every tiny detail of the Titli Park is the in-house expert Sarang Mhatre. Born and brought up in Mumbai, Mhatre is an engineer-turned-butterfly bug. “Butterflies undergo a natural life cycle inside the dome. But, we also release some butterflies that are picked up as caterpillars and allowed to grow under protection. Every species needs a specific environment to grow. We are trying to conserve the butterfly biodiversity of Madhya Pradesh,” he says. Mhatre gives tours and also shows you every step of the life-cycle inside the dome — egg, larvae, pupa, butterfly.
 
 The footfall on weekdays is only 60-70, but as many as 300 people visit on weekdays, he says. Located 55km from Bhopal, Titli Park is ideal for day picnics and educational excursions. An aquarium is expected to come up within a month or two. The main attraction is the conservatory, but there is also a wildlife trail and watch tower where you can be one with nature. There is an interpretation centre and open-air auditorium, and could be a great place to learn and research. Just a month old, it’s just taken wings.
 
