HYDERABAD: The historic   is all set for a much-needed makeover. Going by the posturing of the government, the 83-year-old   will get a new lease of life in the next 3-4 months.

 Principal Secretary, municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD), Arvind Kumar, who set the deadline to change the face of the stately market, has also set off a Twitter campaign to restore the impressive granite edifice. “The stone structure will be restored to its original grandeur and no artificial paints or colours will be used,” confirmed Arvind. The government wants to involve citizens in a big way in this endeavour by launching a website mjmarket.restoration@gmail.com.
 
 “Effort is to restore the original architecture, so emphasis is on removing encroachments. We will take up waterproofing on the terrace and will also rectify the sewerage lines keeping in mind the waterlogging issue. Budget is not a constraint for these works. Various companies have approached us saying they want to be a part of the historic   Market makeover.” Arvind Kumar told TOI.
 
 Not just MA&UD, even GHMC officials have been roped in. Top GHMC babus will inspect the market spread over 1.77 acres. “We will inspect the market along with MA&UD officials to prepare a detailed project report (DPR). Once the DPR is ready, we will estimate the cost and call for tenders to execute the project,” a senior GHMC official told TOI.Highly-placed sources said MA&UD is also planning to take the help of Aga Khan Foundation, which specialises in restoration of heritage structures. Not stopping at that, a Whatsapp group, consisting of architects, GHMC and MA&UD officials, was formed on Monday to suggest ways and means to erase the picture of decay and negligence associated with the impressive structure.
 
 Replying to Arvind’s tweet, netizens drew the attention of the government for the market losing its charm. “Water leakages, banners erected on the structure and cables are the reason for MJ Market losing its beauty,” tweeted Irshad Ahmed.
 
 Responding to the tweets, MA&UD minster KT Rama Rao retweeted Arvind’s tweet which had pictures of the structure. “I am saving these pics so (that) I can juxtapose with these after renovation,” the minister tweeted.
 
 Constructed by the city improvement board in 1935, MJ Market got its name after seventh Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan’s second son   and has the same architectural style as that of Hyderabad High Court, Osmania General Hospital and City College.
 
 
