Shillong: The spate of realignments in the run-up to the assembly election has turned to the advantage of the National People’s Party ( ) and the  , with   taking the hit.

 “There were a few initial setbacks. But the party has a new president in Delhi and in the state. The organization is better placed,” Congress MP and working president of the Meghalaya Pradesh Congress Committee Vincent Pala said, downplaying any threat these realignments pose.
 
 Over the past few months, Congress lost eight MLAs. It also welcomed five MLAs into its fold, the return of one of whom – Manas Chaudhuri – from BJP was seen a ‘ghar waapasi’.
 
 BJP had its own ‘ghar waapasi’ when veteran leader AL Hek made a comeback. Another political heavyweight, former deputy chief minister Sanbor Shullai, also joined the saffron party. He was the president of the state unit of NCP. If the elections in Assam and Manipur are anything to go by, the support and power long-time legislators command is significant. In both states, high-profile exits from Congress like that of Himanta Biswa Sarma in Assam or N Biren Singh in Manipur changed the fortunes of the new entrant, BJP, in the election.
 
 “AL Hek and Sanbor Shullai have been prominent leaders and have done great work in their constituencies. That is why people have voted for them time and again. They were looking for the right place from which to serve their people better. BJP has provided that platform,” president of the Meghalaya unit of BJP, Shibun Lygdoh, said. The last time BJP was represented in the assembly was in 1998, when it won three seats.
 
 The series of exits Congress had to deal with was preceded by brewing dissent within the organizational structure of both the party and the government. First, it was suspended MLA PN Syiem, who joined the regional party People’s Democratic Front and is now its president. Then, in August last year, chief minister Mukul Sangma dropped ministers Prestone Tynsong and Sniawbhalang Dhar for ‘anti-party activities’. One of the ministers appointed in their place, Comingone Ymbon, later left the party for NPP. “Congress leaders failed at everything. Whether it was farmers’ issues or basics like road, education or health, the government did absolutely nothing,” Ymbon said.
 
 Like Ymbon, for many leaders it was a sense of disillusionment with the present dispensation that was the deal-breaker. Former deputy chief minister Rowell Lygdoh, for instance, will be contesting from his home ground Mawkyrkat in West Khasi Hills district on an NPP ticket. “Problem with the Congress is the people, not the party,” he said. The veteran leader felt he had not been given his due after nearly 30 years with Congress. “They removed me from every post I held in the party as well as the government. They dissolved my entire block Congress committee. What could I do?” he added. In NPP, he sees a “great deal of cooperation and a lot of transparency.”
 
 NPP has been successful in drawing the highest number of sitting MLAs this time. “NPP is a fresh party with a fresh perspective. I switched to NPP because of the mandate of the people. It will do much better work than the Congress government did,” Stephanson Mukhim, a former Independent who supported the Congress government and has now joined NPP, said. 
 
 NPP is an ally of the NDA at the Centre and is part of the BJP-led government in Manipur as well. In Meghalaya, however, both NPP and BJP have said they are fighting it out alone.
 
 
