PATNA: Suspected Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen   (JMB) members Mohammad Paigambar Sheikh (24) and Jamirul Sheikh (31) told the   police that they had planned eight serial blasts in Bodh Gaya to avenge the alleged atrocities on Rohingya Muslims in  . The two were arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) of West Bengal police on Thursday.

 Indian passport, cellphone, laptop, electrical tapes, wires and switches, gloves, incriminating documents and 50kg of ammonium nitrate were recovered from their possession. Plastic lunch boxes similar to that found in Bodh Gaya were also recovered. 
 
 An IPS officer said the JMB members could not plant the other five IEDs (improvised explosive device) as the first one exploded near the Kalchakra Maidan in Bodh Gaya on January 19. One IED planted below a generator set near Kalchakra Maidan had partially exploded leading to the recovery of two others just a few metres from the entrance of a Tibetan monastery where Buddhist spiritual leader the Dalai   was staying during that period. The intelligence agencies had tracked several calls in West Bengal before and after the January 19 incident, he said.
 
 “Ammonium nitrate granules were also recovered from partially exploded IED. It was perhaps to increase the destructive power of the bomb,” the officer said.
 
 “Mohammad Sheikh had studied at several madrassas in Bihar, including Gaya and Katihar. He was trained in making bombs and explosions at a terror camp organized by JMB at Bardhaman in West Bengal between 2012 and 2013,” a   police officer said. He also said Jamirul was an Arabic language teacher at a madrassa in Darjeeling.
 
 “Mohammad Sheikh had smuggled the explosives used in the three IEDs from Bangladesh. Jamirul’s role was to arrange human resource and transport for carrying the explosion,” he said and added that JMB, a banned outfit in Bangladesh, was also linked with a couple of international terror organizations.
 
 Sources said JMB has very active cadres in West Bengal and  . Some of its members, wanted in Bangladesh, are suspected to be hiding in Bengal. The duo would be interrogated by NIA very soon after which Bihar police seek their remand from court, sources added.
 
 ADG (Bihar police headquarters) S K Singhal said as central investigating agencies are also involved in the probe, it would not be wise to comment anything.
 
 
