Every time my three-year-old son encounters an ‘un-skippable’ ad on  , his irritation is obvious because his preferred   has been disrupted. You can consider this to be fleeting   behaviour or the beginning of a lifelong distaste for imposed messaging – the latter an ominously likelier scenario.

 It is vital, then, for advertising as a medium to evolve intelligently, to be more palatable for the consumers of the future.
 
 First, we must understand the mindset of today’s children. Choice is a demonstrated birthright which advertising today is dangerously contrarian to, with enforced viewing extended, regrettably, to digital media. The ‘un-skippable’ is a linear adaptation of the 30-second spot, the inability to use the ‘skip’ button adding to the viewer’s disgust. Because, a focused if limited attention span is the surprise stock-in-trade of this generation. They do multiple things but one at a time, for disruption of flow deters concentration. Also, there’s a natural willingness towards dialogue and engagement, as opposed to a static one-sided volley of stimuli.
 
 Thinking laterally, there is a lot to learn from other industries that have made their content future-proof. The IPL is a fine example, luring even the purist with its sparkling format (and now, in England, the prospect of 15-over contests inspired by brevity that is compulsive).
 
 Full-length feature films have happily become encapsulated dramas, or ‘shorts’, while children’s fiction is rapidly turning interactively audio-visual. Fast food — through quickservice restaurants (QSR) or ready to eat (RTE) foods — is the clear successor to slow food, ensuring growth through attractive innovation.
 
 In every such success, the road to a sustainable future arrives through an insightful evolution of present practices. Which is not, unhappily, the case with advertising in digital formats, an old-world approach that takes too many liberties with time. Content marketing, meanwhile, is still in its adolescence.
 
 So, how can paid advertising integrate seamlessly and sustainably into the world of the present child and future adult? A simple technique, the considered upgrade of in-film placement, is a natural assimilation of product with content. If Peppa Pig is a source of delight, we will soon be comfortable with her favorite indulgence being a real-life brand, playing a credible role in the episodes.
 
 An extension of this approach is custom-made serialised content. Imagine Maggi commissioning a weekly digital soap opera, rooted in its values, as ‘pure play’ entertainment with spontaneous brand integration. The music   can make a comeback with catchy customised anthems cleverly integrating the brand’s purpose, and acting as an emotional spur. Even if the advertising is in the standard format, it can be included within the content, as part of the script (with the consent, even, of the protagonist). Interactive communication is another useful skill, involving the viewer through an intuitive question-answer format.
 
 The evolution of ‘experience alliances’ will further enhance the longevity of advertising, with unconnected categories uniting to converse with customers as experiences and not as products or services. Imagine, now, a two-minute short film which captures the magic of a road trip to Ladakh, commissioned by a consortium of interested brands — SUV, sunglasses, beverages, RTE foods (among others) — with a credible stake in the outcome.
 
 This will be a win-win for all, saving cost and effort while talking to youngsters in their desired experiential language without being disturbingly transactional. And, in the process, exhibiting the unique worth of every brand through a context that rides on emotion, the autonomy of the story adding to its credibility and likeability.
 
 Much of this is practised sporadically but now merits overdue scalability. The current generation of advertising professionals must condition the next generation of advertising consumers in the language they love. Else, they may well choose to skip this industry as disdainfully as they skip the next ad on YouTube. 
 
 By Invitation: Shivaji Dasgupta
 
 Founder, INEXGRO
 
 
