CHANDIGARH: Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) has made another change in the National Eligibility and Entrance Test ( ) this year leaving many parents and experts disappointed. It has stated in a notification that the money charged for raising objections will not be refunded any more. Every year a student paid Rs 1,000 per objection and for every objection which turned out to be correct, the money was refunded. 

 Parents and experts termed it as demotivating move and are writing to CBSE to reconsider this point.
 
 Arvind Goyal, a city-based biology expert said, “This non-refund policy of the CBSE is ill-conceived and unfair. If the CBSE paper setters have framed an incorrect question or given a wrong answer, why should the students, who points out the error be penalized for the same by not getting a refund of the amount remitted by him. The CBSE must reverse this policy in the larger interest of the students.”
 
 The CBSE had made the AIPMT transparent in 2014 by displaying the answer keys and inviting objections from the students after a directive from the   and   high court in response to a PIL filed by city-based expert  . This step taken by the CBSE was appreciated by all stakeholders inclusive students, parents and teachers.
 
 Since 2014 onwards, the CBSE has been inviting objections to the displayed answer key from the students who take the exam by charging a fee of Rs 1,000 per objection filed. It was mentioned that in case the objection sent by the student was accepted and turned out to be true then the fee charged would be refunded to the student.
 
 “This system followed by the CBSE where fee would be refunded to the student in case his/ her objection was accepted was very fair, just and logical and is worth appreciating. But I was shocked to read in the information brochure of NEET UG-2018 that this year the CBSE has changed the rules.”
 
 “This non-refund policy of the CBSE is unfair and against natural justice. For CBSE’s fault why should I suffer a financial loss? The fees is anyway too high,” said Rose Chanchal, a medical aspirant.
 
 Manasvi Arya, another medical aspirant, “By doing this CBSE is discouraging us from filing objections.”
 
 Last year, while disposing of a petition regarding errors in a competitive exam, the Punjab and Haryana high court had said the original paper setters could not be dissociated in case of a wrong answer key and they are duty bound to respond to the objections. Their response is required to be forwarded to independent subject experts, the high court had said.
 
 
