Vadodara: After 23-year legal battle, the Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) will be able to get back its cafeteria premises inside the Gujarat Refinery Township from a city-based catering company who had refused to vacate it. The order was pased by principal district judge in connection with a civil appeal which the Commercial Caterers (Gujarat) Private Limited (CCPL), having its office in Fatehgunj, had filed in December 2009. The IOCL had rented out its cafeteria premises inside the township to CCPL in August 1984. At the end of 11 months when the agreement between them expired, IOCL did not renew it and CCPL continued to occupy it illegally. In March 1994, IOCL wrote to CCPL to vacate the premises. Instead of vacating, CCPL filed a rent suit in small causes court. When the court said that it did not have jurisdiction, CCPL filed a special civil suit in civil court which it withdrew later. Both the parties again entered into another leave and license agreement in June 2001 for 11 months but CCPL again refused to vacate the premise at the end of the agreement period. IOCL then wrote to its estate officer to initiate necessary procedure against CCPL for eviction. After receiving letter cum complaint from IOCL, the estate officer issued notice to CCPL in January 2005. After subsequent hearings before the estate officer, who has jurisdiction like a civil court, passed an order on December 2009 for eviction of the premises within a fortnight. CCPL then challenged the order in the district court. During the hearing, CCPL questioned the legality of the notice served by the estate officer and the absence of details of premises in the agreement. However, the CCPL’s arguments did not hold over the case presented by the lawyers of IOCL and estate officer. The district judge J C Doshi too said in his final order that the court concurs with the reasons assigned by estate officer in his order and rejected the appeal filed by CCPL. The court also asked CCPL to deposit Rs 15,000 with district legal services authority as cost.