The courtyard of a mall in the narrow streets of East Delhi would be the last place one would expect to see a chopper but that is exactly the sight in front of hundreds of screaming fans at the Unity One Mall in Shahdara this Sunday evening. Granted that the chopper in question wasn’t a real helicopter but a replica attached to a crane but the fans still had a lot to cheer for nonetheless, as the two passengers inside were the stars of 
    and  . The two stars arrived at the mall to promote their upcoming film in grand style, as a giant crane lifted a makeshift chopper on to the stage with the two actors inside and several amazed fans outside. Commenting on the slow descent of the ‘chopper’ on to the stage, Tiger quipped, “Sorry for taking so long to get to the stage. Isne to itna time liya, laga jaise Bombay se Delhi aa gaye ho.”

  
  The two stars entered the mall in a makeshift chopper to the cheers of their fans
 
 The two stars began by professing their love for Delhi. “Delhi is my favourite place in the world. It is always great to come here and feel the energy of the fans here,” Tiger said. “Delhi is quite special to me because I did my studies from here. So, it always feels great to come back here,” added Disha.
 
  
  Tiger and Disha broke into an impromptu romantic dance routine on the hit track 'O Sathi' from  
 
 Few lucky members from the crowd got a chance to go up on the stage and meet the two actors in person. First, a few kids went up on stage and danced along with Tiger and Disha, followed by a bunch of women, who insisted on learning martial arts from Tiger. Aarti, a Shahdara resident was one of the women who got a chance to get a few   tips from Tiger. “It was a wonderful experience. To go up on stage and meet them was great in itself but then Tiger was nice enough to give us some basic self-defence tips too,” she said. When egged by the fans, Tiger even demonstrated his famous backflip to a loud cheer and cries of encore from the fans.
 
  
  Fans of the two stars had a gala time watching their favourite actors perform
 
 But it wasn’t all intense action on the stage. As the hit track 'O Saathi' from Baaghi 2 played, Tiger and Disha broke into an impromptu romantic dance routine for the fans, causing the emcee to comment that they were quite a ‘good couple’, which drew a lot of cheers from the packed crowd.
 
  
  A lesson in self- defence from Tiger
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
