TRICHY: Bharathidasan University (BDU) is set to lay down the   regulations which are likely to bring in quality in various   works in the university. The new set of regulations will set minimum standards and procedure for awarding M Phil or PhD and a decision in this regard will be made in the review meeting scheduled on Friday.

 “Meeting of the research committee has been called on April 20 in which a decision would be taken on adopting the UGC regulations. Following approval form the standing committee on academic affairs, syndicate and senate of the university, the regulations will come into effect,” said vice-chancellor P Manisankar.
 
 While the number of research scholars to be guided by faculty members has been limited, the new norms have been made stringent for research scholars. The move is likely to reduce the number of PhD produced by the university every year. But it would ideally be improving quality of PhD work, sources said.
 
 The BDU is producing more than 600 PhDs on an average every year. However, these numbers are going to come down with the implementation of the new regulations. “Quality of PhD is more important for a university than the numbers,” says vice-chancellor P Manisankar and implementation of the UGC regulations 2016 is significant in this regard.
 
 There are chances of repetition of PhD thesis and it is not effectively checked for plagiarised content especially in the colleges. The new regulations would ensure quality in the PhD work, he said.
 
 The move by BDU to adopt the UGC regulations 2016 come when many of its rivals in the state have already done it. Some of the state universities like Alagappa, Manonamaniam Sundaranar, Bharathiar and Madurai Kamaraj University have already adopted the new regulations, but opposition from faculty members especially from colleges, has resulted in the delay. Further, absence of a vice-chancellor too had contributed to the delay in adopting UGC regulations.
 
 “Opposition from colleges was the main reason for the delay as they were objecting to reduction in the number of research scholars to be guided by the research supervisor,” said a senior faculty from the university.
 
 
