NEW DELHI:   (RIL) struck a deal to shore up content for its telecom business by merging its digital music company JioMusic with streaming service provider  . The merger will create a $1-billion entity.

 
 The deal will benefit  , which would get access to a large library of music content. This transaction comes nearly a month after RIL had acquired a 5% stake in media firm Eros International.
 
 “We are delighted to announce this partnership with Saavn, and believe that their highly-experienced management team will be instrumental in expanding Jio-Saavn to an extensive user base, thereby strengthening our leadership position in the Indian streaming market,”  , director at Reliance Jio, said.
 
 The companies said, “The integrated business will be developed into a media platform of the future with global reach, cross-border original content, an independent artist marketplace, consolidated data and one of the largest mobile advertising mediums.”
 
 
  
 
 RIL said, “The combined entity is valued at over $1 billion, with JioMusic’s implied valuation at $670 million.”
 
 RIL will invest up to $100 million in the new entity, of which $20 million will be invested upfront for growth and expansion of the platform. The company will continue to operate as an over-the-top (OTT) media platform, available in all app stores.
 
 The three co-founders of Saavn — Rishi Malhotra, Paramdeep Singh and Vinodh Bhat — will continue in their leadership roles and will drive growth of the combined entity.
 
 JioMusic will also acquire a partial stake from existing shareholders of Saavn for $104 million. Shareholders of Saavn include Tiger Global Management, Liberty Media and  , among others.
 
 “The deal will combine streaming media expertise of Saavn with the connectivity and digital ecosystem of Jio. With a massive addressable market opportunity of over one billion users in India and globally, the combined entity plans to invest aggressively to accelerate growth that would benefit all aspects of the ecosystem, including users, music labels, artists and advertisers,” RIL said. While Goldman Sachs acted as the financial adviser, AZB & Partners and Covington & Burling LLP acted as legal advisers and Ernst & Young provided tax advisory and diligence services to RIL.
 
