CHANDIGARH: High drama was witnessed outside   in Sector 53, Chandigarh, when BJP   Chandrawati Shukla, along with her supporters, blocked the school gate at 9am on Friday. They continued to protest outside the school till 2pm. 

 The incident took place a day after the   councillor circulated an audio clip of an education department official and school’s principal in which they allegedly called the councillor ‘uncouth’ and responsible for troubling them just to fetch votes. In the audio, R D Sharma, principal of Government Smart School, Sector 53, Chandigarh, can be heard speaking to an education department official Raghu. 
 
 The councillor, along with her husband and supporters, raised slogans against the director school education, principal, teachers and Chandigarh administration. An apology was demanded from both for using foul language for the councillor in the audio clip, along with an immediate suspension of both.
 
 During the protest, neither were any teachers allowed to exit from the gate, nor were the parents, who had come to take their wards, allowed to enter. The younger students were seen crying as they could not reach or see their parents outside the school gate when the school ended.
 
 “The protesters used mic and speakers to raise slogans disrupting the classes. They threatened to beat up the teachers,” said the principal. The school principal filed a complaint against the councillor and the protesters for disrupting the functioning of the school to SHO of Sector 36 police station. Police officers were seen at the premises all through the day.
 
 The school principal RD Sharma said he was stopped from entering the school in the morning after he was returning from the office of director school education ( ), where he was called after the councillor had approached him on Thursday afternoon seeking action. The protesters had even approached MP Kirron Kher.
 
 The protesters moved aside only after deputy district education officer Monica Maini visited the school and assured the protesters that the department was conducting an inquiry.
 
 “She has asked for three days’ time. We will wait till Tuesday and if nothing is done, then we will be back to protest on Wednesday or Thursday,” said Shukla. They threatened that next time they will be in larger numbers.
 
 The teachers also felt scared to leave the gate until the protesters had dispersed. They said we will support the principal as it was the parents and councillor who misbehaved with the principal and staff on Thursday. The police ensured the staff and principal left the school safely.
 
 
