Pune: The rapidly increasing number of consumers on the existing telecommunication network infrastructure is seen as the primary reason for a large number of  .

 According to the data available with the Cellular Operators’ Association of India (COAI), the total number of mobile subscribers in the state touched 82.19 million in December 2017. Earlier that year, in February, the state had 70.32 million subscribers.
 
 Milind Pande, the director of MIT School of Telecom Management, said the disproportionate grown of subscribers vis-a-vis the number of towers is the prime reason for calls drops. “The growing competition in the handset market and the availability of cheaper handsets has allowed more people to become mobile customers. While the number of consumers is only increasing, the number of towers has remained the same. The sharing of the towers, coupled with an increasing number of customers, is leading to call drops, especially during peak hours,” he said.
 
 Pande also said that usually, people do not allow installation of towers on their buildings or properties. He said the COAI has sought permission from the government to allow mobile towers to be put up on buildings.
 
 Rajan Mathews, the director-general of COAI, said member operators continue to work with the states and localities to ensure the Right of Way Gazette Notification for cell towers and fibre location issued by the Department of Telecommunication is implemented. “The industry is working closely with the DoT, medical professionals, DST and others and has spent well over Rs10 crore on various educational programmes and events to educate the public on the safety of cell towers. Operators have committed to spend well over Rs 50,000 crore in construction of cell towers and related infrastructure if cell tower approvals are given. Bottleneck areas — such as defence locations, cantonments, rural areas, panchayats — are receiving special attentio,” he said.
 
 Pande pointed out the excessive focus laid on data by the telecom companies. “When Reliance Jio entered the market, everyone got busy in revising their data networks. The telecom companies are not upgrading their voice facilities as aggressively as data,” Pande said.
 
 He added by the end of 2018, the problem of call drops will be addressed. “The next National Telecom Policy (NTP) will focus on installation of optical fibres to connect 2,68,000 villages to the telecom network. I believe the problem of voice and call drops will be solved by year-end,” he said.
 
 
