KOLKATA: In its US operations, app-cab aggregator   to   caused due to drowsy driving, prompting drivers to go offline for six hours once they clock 12 hours at the wheel. After accidents involving tired drivers in Kolkata and other Indian cities, particularly late at night or in the wee hours of the morning, riders here have started demanding similar measures from twin app-cab majors Uber and Ola.

 
 With drivers here clocking 15-16 hours at a stretch to register enough rides to pocket a healthy incentive, there have been instances of drivers crashing into stationary vehicles or driving off the road after dozing off at the wheel.
 
 Amit Dwivedi, who takes the day’s first flight to Delhi or Mumbai at least twice a month, was shaken after he learnt about the techie’s accident on VIP Road when the app cab he was taking to the airport rammed into a stationary truck. “On at least two occasions, I had found my vehicle drifting and had to alert the driver,” he recounted.
 
 Ola officials acknowledge there is a problem at hand and have created a safety council comprising experts to suggest ways to improve safety of both drivers and riders. The issues that will be addressed include speaking on the phone while at the wheel, driving drunk and drowsiness due to long hours on the road. The aggregator will also undertake a blackout analysis to identify areas in a city that are accident prone and issue voice alerts to drivers when the car approaches such an area.
 
 Accidents are also caused by eyesight problems. Around 40% of people who drive have poor eyesight.  ,   nearly had a fatal accident in a car driven by a person who had cataract. Ola has announced it will provide medical check-ups and free eye aids to 1million drivers in the next three years.
 
 Uber, which has a ready solution available in the US, is yet to take a call on introducing the feature here. With many drivers logging into both Ola and Uber, they point out how it would not make sense unless all companies integrate the information about drivers to curb such behaviour.
 
 The firm instead uses telematics to look at driving patterns to caution drivers over the app.
 
 “If there is overspeeding, hard braking or lane changing, an alert is automatically sent out. The app also senses if the phone is mounted or is on the lap,” an official said.
 
 
