Trichy: To promote segregation of waste at source, one of the possible and comfortable solutions to eliminate the requirement of dump yard, Trichy corporation has planned to reward four residents every week by gifting electric kettles. The condition laid by the civic body to grab an electric kettle is to shoot a minute long video of the participant involved in segregating the waste in separate bins earmarked for biodegradable and non-biodegradable wastes before handing over to sanitary workers and submit the video to the civic body's WhatsApp account. The corporation is said to have identified private sponsors for supporting the initiative, likely to go on for a year. Since June 2017, sanitary workers with the civic body have been collecting waste from households separately as biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste for recycling both, thus limiting the amount of waste heading to corporation’s massive dump yard in Ariyamangalam. To support the door-to-door waste collection and decentralised recycling activities which involve making compost from degradable waste and selling the non-biodegradable to scrap vendors for a price, Trichy corporation thus far has opened 24 micro compost centres covering 90 percent of the city. Further to encourage residents in segregating the waste at source, the civic body has launched a novel contest to be pursued every week. “Residents interested in the contest have to shoot a video of them segregating the biodegradable waste in green bins and non-biodegradable in blue bins. Further, the video should be sent to civic body’s WhatsApp account simultaneously, the participant should upload the video in Facebook tagging three of their friends with hashtag #mytrichychallenge,” a senior official with civic body said. Along with the video to be sent to the corporation's WhatsApp account 83001-13000, a screenshot of the participant’s post of the same video with tags and hashtag on Facebook should be attached. The entries with resident’s name and mobile number will be recorded by the corporation officials, and on every Wednesdays, a lot system would be conducted to select four participants. “Each of the four selected residents would receive 1.8 litre capacity electric kettle each worth Rs 1,000. From the coming week, the contest would commence,” the official added. Earlier, the civic body had been awarding a gram gold coin each to the residents successfully segregating the waste. However, due to administrative reasons, first of its kind initiative in the entire state was dropped by the civic body. Officials asserted that such encouragement would promote the awareness on efficient solid waste management practices.