MUMBAI: A young engineering student, who reminded spectators of actor Nana Patekar given the way he waved his hands while arguing, won India’s foremost   on Thursday.  , who studies at  , won the   debating championship organized in association with The Times of India.

 Speaking in Hindi, Tiwari earned steady applause for his quicksilver arguments and his composed, witty style. His opponent   made strong arguments in English, but conceded his loss through a warm embrace.
 
 Speak For India has gained currency as the largest inter-collegiate debating competition in the country. There are chapters in other states too, but the Maharashtra leg is particularly successful. This season, the contest reached out to 1,500 colleges in 36 districts of the state. Around 35,000 students auditioned for the preliminary rounds.
 
 The winner received Rs 1 lakh cash, a Rs 2 lakh scholarship and Rs 50,000 went to his college. The runner-up received Rs 1 lakh cash, while Rs 50,000 went to his college. Each of the six finalists won Rs 25,000.
 
 Eight finalists put on their thinking caps at Thursday’s event. Each spoke in the language he was most comfortable in, including Marathi.
 
 Tiwari and Mundra made it to the last round and were assigned to debate whether the BJP’s proposal of ‘One Nation One Poll’ was feasible. Proponent Mundra felt that “election mode was corruption mode” so reducing poll frequency would lessen graft. Tiwari opposed the idea saying simultaneous polls did not augur well for a multi-party democracy. “We need to audit all parties regularly, periodically based on performance. That is why state and local elections are best held after a certain gap,” he said.
 
 State education minister Vinod Tawde, who was chief guest, said, “There is a difference between debates on TV and in Parliament. Social media is altogether different. When you forward a post you may not own the thought behind it. But when you speak, you own the thought.”
 
 The judges also enjoyed the repartee. Advertising guru Bharat Dabholkar was heartened to see the contestants’ interest in current affairs. BJP leader Shaina NC joked that TV channels could source new panelists from this talent pool. The third judge Rajesh Mapuskar laughed and said the competing arguments had made his views swing like a pendulum on both sides. tnn
 
 
