NAGPUR: On one hand chief minister   is giving sops to textile sector and on the other MSEDCL officers are doing their best to make life difficult for industrialists. 

 In a shocking case, Suhas Mehetre, MSEDCL superintending engineer (SE) of  , threw all norms into the dustbin to delay a load reduction application of a cooperative spinning mill of Dhamangaon. The mill has already suffered a loss of Rs3 lakh due to the delay and is likely to incur another Rs3 lakh loss.
 
 Shri Gajanan Sahakari Sutgirni had applied to Mehetre for reducing its sanctioned load in March. It is mid-May but its application is yet to be accepted.
 
 Consumer activist Ashish   said that the Sutgirni wants to reduce its sanctioned load from 800 kVA to 630 kVA. “This would lead to a reduction in the bill by at least 10%. The Sutgirni will get a higher load factor incentive and more subsidy under state government’s Vidarbha Marathwada industrial power subsidy scheme. However, Mehetre’s anti-industry attitude has caused a huge loss to the unit,” he added.
 
 When Mehetre received the Sutgirni’s application in March he should have asked the field officers to check whether the current transformer (CT) of the electricity meter would register accurate reading if load was reduced. Instead he asked the executive engineer to do a joint inspection for checking various things. These include deciding the point of supply, % voltage regulation (VR) sheet, recommendation on load sanction report etc.
 
 Slamming Mehetre, Chandarana said, “There is no need to decide the point of supply in case of an existing consumer. VR is calculated when load is increased and not reduced. In this case even checking the CT is not needed.” 
 
 Bhalchandra Khandait, regional director of MSEDCL, agreed with Chandarana. “The reports sought by Mehetre are not necessary. I will ask him to submit an explanation why the load reduction was not done on time,” he told TOI.
 
 Mehetre, himself admitted that these tests were unnecessary but when TOI asked why he written the letter he could not produce any reply. He claimed that it was a minor matter and the consumer’s load would be reduced soon.
 
 Chandarana questioned Mehetre’s competence. “Even a junior engineer would not have sought these reports,” he said.
 
 
