SURAT: A sense of confusion prevails among yarn dealers and manufacturers in the country’s largest man-made fabric (MMF) hub. For, the central government notified that sale and purchase of polyester yarn can not be done without the e-way bill, while state government recently exempted around 19 items,  , from generating e-way bill for intra-state transfer. 

 In January-2018, the commercial tax department,   state, exempted all the verticals in the textile industry, including traders, power loom weavers, yarn manuafcturers and dealers from generating e-way bill for fabrics and yarn movement within the state and city. 
 
 As per the notification issued by the commercial tax department, the movement of yarn and fabric is exempted from generating e-way bill for the intra-state transport. With the government likely to implement the e-way bill law from April 1, 2018, across the country, the yarn dealers are worried whether the notification issued by Gujarat government will be nullified. 
 
 “Over 95 per cent of yarn dealers in the city are unable to get registration on the Goods and Service Tax (GST) portal. Without registration one cannot generate e-way bill. Hence, the delivery of yarn will have to be suspended,” a yarn dealer Rajesh   said. 
 
 Surana added, “The transporters are asking for e-way bill for goods valued below Rs 50,000. They (transporters) do not want to take any chance with the GST inspectors. We demand that government should defer the implementation of e-way bill for another six months till the GST portal is made user-friendly.”
 
 Talking to TOI, chartered accountant   said, “The   is meeting on March 10 and the decision on nation-wide implementation of e-way bill is expected from April 1. It is to be seen whether the notification issued by the commercial tax department of Gujarat state will be allowed or disallowed.”
 
 Gupta added, “The GST portal is crashing continuously and traders and dealers are facing lot of difficulties in filing the returns and registering online. In such a circumstance, the delivery of yarn to the units located outside the city limit will stop from April 1.”
 
 
