Perched on the ledge of his hotel room window with a view of chaotic Mumbai streets, this 44-year-old singer, songwriter, producer and fashion designer has a curious ability to not age - both musically and physically. He's a man of few airs and fewer words, though 'few' for   is an acronym that defines his priorities, which right now are about embracing  . The 10-time Grammy winner is in India to launch a collection inspired by the festival. Mohua Das chats with the man who gave the world a Happy high.

 
 
 Yes, I've seen some of those videos, they were mindblowing... I was honoured. I don't really have any plans. I will be going to Delhi and I'm just open to experiencing things. I'm not as controlled as I used to be. To come here and obsess only about the sitar, for instance, would be restrictive. There's a river that I gotta go see, which I couldn't if I had an edited schedule. There's so much more than what we can imagine, right? And here there is so much going on - 1.3 billion people, which means 1.3 billion ideas. All that is super exciting to me - the deities, hundreds of them and what they represent - the stories that come with it that people here consider to be fact is very intriguing for me. It's a whole other world... 1.3 billion points of difference all nestled in one country.
 
 
 
 I'd seen photos in National Geographic magazines back in the day, and in documentaries. The festival signifies happiness. The whole notion of happiness and people expressing their glee for what is to come, but at the same time giving respect to their past is a beautiful thing. The Hu Holi line tells the story of the festival, and gives visibility to it around the world.
 
 
 
 It's about three things - how you feel when you wake up, where you're going and what the weather is going to be like. That's what informs my fashion daily. And maybe a couple of times a year, I change my silhouette. I don't know why but there's just a moment when I'm like (snaps his fingers) 'oh, okay... on to the next'. I'm just chasing a feeling and I know when I'm done. It's like when you apply salt or pepper to your food, you don't know if it's 30 crystals or 300. You just know when to stop. That's what getting dressed means to me.
 
 
 
 I don't feel required to do this as an artiste but by the universe that has done so much for me. I've been doing what I love to do for so long that I owe it to the universe. I feel like I have to pay it forward and contribute to it in a positive way. I don't see myself imposing my views on other people so I find ways to entertain and shove education or encouragement into it in a way that you can't detect it. So, it never feels like a lesson or you're being preached to or a grandiose declaration.
 
 
 
 The acronym for that is FEW - family, entertainment and work. So I have only a 'few' things to do.
 
 
 
 To be keeping up with the times would mean you're taking a break and need to catch up. But if you're running and love the run, you might be leading the times.
 
