Very few musicians in Kerala can boast of the skills   has – she’s trained in Carnatic music, plays the  , performs across the world and has sung hit songs in films such as Oru Vadakkan Selfie, Jacobinte Swargarajyam and most recently,  .

 Kavya also manages to straddle non-film projects alongside, and her latest outing,  , is a fusion cover of a Spanish song Cosiendome El Corazan and AR Rahman’s Moongil Thottam. We caught up with the singer, who seems to be on a roll these days:
 
 
 
 Apart from Indian languages, I have attempted songs in English, Spanish and Arabic. When you first attempt to sing in a foreign language, it will obviously be tough. But probably because I have been listening to a lot of Spanish songs and like the feel, I find the language comparatively easier in terms of singing. Cosiendome El Corazan is one of the songs I have learnt, and as I was singing it I felt that Moongil Thottam seemed to fit in. The mood of both songs sounded similar and I thought, why not make a blend?
 
  
 
 Hey Jude has four music composers. Rahul composed this song, which is also the tagline of the movie. It’s my first experience working with him. He called me out of the blue and said that there’s this track that he wants to record. It’s a peppy duet that I enjoyed singing. Interestingly, apart from Anthikevarikente in Vimaanam last year, which was a semi-classical devotional number, I have always been called to sing tracks that have a western feel.
 
  
 
 The truth is that I don’t prioritise at all. For me, it’s all music. It’s just another recording session. Be it a movie or an album, it’s all up on the Internet. If the product is good, the result is the same everywhere. As long as I get to sing a good song, I just do it. Last year, it just happened that I got to do a few non-film songs in Tamil.
 
  
 
 We are in the Internet era now. Whatever you do, if it’s not online, it’s highly unlikely the person is going to make it big; no matter how good he or she is. I think this is the medium where everyone must showcase their talent. You can perform live or participate in reality shows on TV, but the number of people you can reach out to will be limited. However, if it’s on the Internet, there’s no end to the reach with just one video or track. I think today’s artistes make excellent use of the medium to get their talent out there.
 
  
 
 There’s nothing in queue yet. However, recordings can happen at a very short notice. There are a lot of live shows coming up; I also have an US tour in April – May.
 
 
 
 I thoroughly love it. To be frank, I have done more live shows than recording sessions. I think it’s also because I sing and play the violin. Not many people do that and that’s why I get more opportunities to perform live.
 
 
 
 I don’t have plans as such. It could happen but need not necessarily be for a movie. I have been doing covers and music videos. The next one can be an independent composition.
 
