For a change, PM   kept in check his proclivity to hug foreign leaders when he met Chinese President   over 2 days here in Wuhan. Xi though more than made up for it with his hospitality which saw him stating towards the end that as president he had stepped out of Beijing to receive a foreign leader only twice and that on both occasions his guest was Modi.

 
 The first occasion was in Xi'an in 2015 where he had met Modi. A diplomatic source here said the mood in the meetings was perfectly encapsulated in the instrumental cover of a popular Bollywood song from the 80s, hon na juda yeh wada raha, by a Chinese orchestra at Xi's dinner for Modi.
 
 The Chinese side paid attention to details like decorating Saturday's lunch menu with the colours of Indian flag and displaying a peacock on it. 
 
 Behind this show of bonhomie, which included almost an hour-long boat ride for Xi and Modi, the 2 leaders did look at all major outstanding issues in detail, not least the vexed border issue. 
 
 Of particular significance was the "strategic guidance" to the militaries to built trust and mutual understanding as it was meant to prevent Doklam-like incidents in the future. Building upon the Astana consensus of 2017, the Chinese side said in a statement that both countries had the "maturity and wisdom" to handle their differences through peaceful discussion and by respecting each other's concerns and aspirations. 
 
 "The 2 militaries will strengthen confidence-building measures and enhance communication and cooperation to uphold border peace and tranquility," said China's vice foreign minister Kong Xuanyou.
 
 Importantly for India, Kong said that China was not going to push India to become a part of the Belt and Road Initiative ( ). He said actually there was no disagreement in principle between India and China on connectivity issues.
 
 "The two counties indeed are expanding their cooperation on connectivity. Personally I don’t think it is important to see if India accepts the expression of the BRI," said Kong.
 
 "A number of cooperation projects in the region and there will be more in the pipeline which may involve a third party and which is in keeping with the spirit of the BRI," he added.
 
 However, he said the 2 countries had agreed to work together in the neighbourhood in what he described as China and India plus One (third country) format. 
 
 Indian officials maintained throughout the visit though that on the issue of BRI, there can be no change in India's position until the time  , which passes through the disputed Gilgit-Baltistan region, remained a part of it.
 
 "Guided by the leaders of the 2 countries, they will strengthen dialogue in political, security and other areas to have full and timely connection on major issues of mutual interest to enhance understanding and expand consensus so that the China-India relationship will always keep to the right direction," said the Chinese foreign ministry.
 
