MUMBAI: A massive drama ensued at   railway station on Thursday morning when an armed man first entered the ladies coach of a train and then climbed on to the section under the   ( ). He was trying to jump on to the overhead wires. It took security agencies two hours and everything from cajoling to poking to bring the man down. This also affected the running of suburban train services on   for two hours. The man was later  .

 Overhead wires carry 25,000 volts of current and he would have been electrocuted had he touched these. WR officials said power supply was shut till the man was brought down and this led to train delays. Commuters from as far as Vasai to Churchgate were inconvenienced due to delays that lasted for over two hours.
 
 The man was identified as Ramsingh Bais (22), a manual  . A native of Madhya Pradesh, he lived near Pushpa Park at Malad East. GRP officers said he appeared to be mentally disturbed and would undergo psychiatric examination on Friday. Bais was arrested on various charges and will be produced before a railway court on Friday. His colleagues told cops that he was upset after problems cropped up over his older brother’s impending wedding over dowry. He had stepped out of home at 8am with a kitchen   and was reportedly experiencing hallucinations.
 
 Around 11am, Bais entered the ladies coach of a Churchgate-bound train that had halted at a signal between Kandivli and Malad stations. “Women commuters started screaming on seeing the knife. Most jumped off from both exits of the coach. There were other trains moving in up and down directions on adjacent tracks and the women commuters were very fortunate to escape unhurt,” said an eyewitness.
 
 As chaos ensued, RPF and GRP personnel rushed to the spot. By then, Bais had emerged from the near-empty ladies coach. He went to the top of a BMC-owned FOB, put his foot across the side railing, sliding into the section below. He tried hard to reach the overhead wire below the bridge but couldn’t. GRP and RPF repeatedly asked Bais to come down but he kept moving from side to side.
 
 Shortly, the fire brigade was called in. Firemen brought a tall ladder and propped it under the FOB. Four men took turns to scale the ladder and went up FOB pillars to reach him. They waved lathis at him but in vain. Some firemen spread out a net to catch him in case he fell. Someone brought a long stick and poked him and Bias finally landed into the net at 12.55pm. Securitymen picked him up by his hands and feet and took him to the police outpost. Bais does not have a past crime record. He had shifted to Mumbai from Madhya Pradesh a month ago.
 
 
