AHMEDABAD: A division bench of   on Thursday struck down the observations of a single-judge bench that the Centre should deliberate on   for the state government not being able to implement the   for  

 The bench of Justice Anant Dave and Justice Biren Vaishnav junked the observation about the reference of Article 356 of the Constitution on the grounds that this was beyond the jurisdiction of the high court.
 
 The division bench said that the high court has the powers to deal with non-implementation or delay in implementation of its order under provisions of Article 226 of the Constitution. “Under Article 226, it may protect people’s fundamental rights by issuing directions, but the reference to Article 356 is beyond the scope of the high court’s jurisdiction, the division bench observed while striking down the single-judge’s order,” said additional advocate general Prakash Jani.
 
 The issue came before the division bench on Saturday night after Justice Paresh Upadhyay passed an order and made disparaging remarks on the conduct of the advocate general with regards to the selection list prepared for Class I & II posts following GPSC recruitment process in 2011. A few candidates approached the high court alleging illegalities and wrong selection.
 
 In April 2017, Justice Upadhyay passed a lengthy order and directed the state government to conduct an inquiry into the illegalities on why SC/ST/SEBC and women candidates were denied jobs when they met all criteria, and to inquire into how ineligible candidates got government jobs instead.
 
 Earlier this month, the government for the second time, sought time from Justice Upadhyay to implement his order of inquiry and to consider the eligible candidates for jobs. The court granted time but came down heavily for not following court order. The court also criticized the advocate general for his conduct. The court concluded that if AG is not behind any manipulation, then “there is no scope from conclusion that the same is done by the state, as its policy and the consequence thereof would be that, such a government cannot be allowed to continue in the office, even for a day”.
 
 Within hours, the state government challenged the order before division bench and raised a question about width and amplitude of scope of exercise of powers under Article 226.
 
 After the disparaging remarks on AG and the state government were set aside, the division bench was assured by the government that it would strive to fill 41 vacancies of posts in dispute by April 30.
 
 
