Nagpur: ‘Safety, quality and acclivity’ will be the focus and theme of Indian Society of Anaesthesiologists, Nagpur City Branch (ISA-NCB) this year, said newly elected president Dr Sunita Lawange.

 A consultant anaesthesiologist and pain physician, Lawange was installed, along with other members, at the hands of Padma Shri Dr Rani Bang on Saturday evening, at a city hotel. Dr Umesh Ramtani, assistant professor in anaesthesiology, Mayo Hospital, was installed as secretary.
 
 Speaking to TOI about the latest developments in the field of pain management, Dr Lawange said that platelet reach plasma (PRP) is in vogue. It is said that when PRP is injected in the knees or shoulder, it helps in re-generation of the cells. 
 
 If it is injected at an early stage, it is going to prevent further damage. “PRP can be prepared in the pathology lab and inject it instantly with ultrasound,” she said. 
 
 Nowadays, patients recover very fast and a knee-replacement patient starts walking within a day. This is only possible through good anaesthesia.
 
 “The main problem with patients in Nagpur is their lack of insurance, as these are high-end facilities,” she added. 
 
 On the occasion, Dr Lawange also launched her book ‘Holistic approach to lower back pain’. “In this age where people are tech-savvy, they experience pain in neck and lower back. People ask me what should we do or what should we eat, what exercises one should plan, what is the role of yoga or postures. I thought I should write for my patients as well as for the common man,” she said.
 
 In order to pledge their contribution towards a safe environment, the new team plans to hold tree plantation drives in the coming months, said Lawange.
 
 With regard to health, a walkathon for doctors is on the cards. Basic Life Support Activity will also be conducted as part of public awareness programme, she added. 
 
 “We will depict various forms of anaesthesia and the role of an anaesthesiologist in various diversified fields of medicine, as there is little awareness in public about this field. 'You are in safe hands' will be the slogan for the charts,” she said.
 
 Addressing all the members of ISA-NCB, Dr Bang brought attention to the lack of anaesthetists in villages despite technological advancements. She urged the members to provide services in rural areas. Anaesthetists in cities are aplenty, she said. Dr Bang also referred to her own example of starting Gadchiroli-based NGO SEARCH, founded 30 years ago, when there hardly any medical facilities in the tribal district.
 
 Former city MP Vilas Muttemwar also attended the event. The installation ceremony was followed by a continuing medical education programme, in which outgoing president Dr Sheetal Dalal delivered the ‘Late Dr NT Balankhe Memorial Oration' on the topic, 'Newer Airway Gadgets: Promising approach in difficult airway management'.
 
 
