KARWAR: Uttar Pradesh chief minister   on Thursday said the   government led by   had turned entire   into a breeding ground of jihadi forces, rendering the oncerole-model state for the nation into killing fields of Hindu activists.

 
 Addressing a   rally in Sirsi, Uttara Kannada district, Adityanath launched a scathing attack on Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah and his government.
 
 Yogi alleged that Congress had turned Karnataka into its ATM and was looting the state. He said BJP is fighting the election on the slogan of vikas (development), suraksha (security) and sushasan (good governance).
 
 He said in UP similar lawlessness had prevailed before the BJP government assumed power, but now terrorists and antisocial elements have fled the state. Comparing suicide of farmers in Karnataka with UP, Adityanath said UP has a population of 23 crore, which is three times higher than that of Karnataka, but there are no cases of farmer suicides in the northern state.
 
 Criticising the CM for dividing the society on caste lines, Adityanath said law and order in Karnataka has deteriorated and people like Yasin Bhatkal have taken over. He said unlike Karnataka government, which had waived loans of farmers in cooperative societies, the UP government waived loans of all farmers, including those availed from nationalised banks.
 
 Recalling the relationship between Gorakhnath Mutt in UP, which he represents, and the Kadri Mutt in Mangaluru, Manjunatheshwara temple in Dharmasthala and Adichunchanagiri Mutt in Sringeri, he said there is a long-standing relationship between UP and Karnataka.
 
 Stating that the BJP believes in the principles of 'Sabka saath sab ka vikas' and 'Ek Bharat shreshtha Bharat', the UP CM requested the gathering to elect the party to bring back the glory of Vijayanagar empire in Karnataka.
 
 
 
 UP CM Yogi Adityanath enjoyed authentic Malnad vegetarian food at the Rambhapuri Mutt in Balehonnur on Thursday. The religious institution had prepared 18 dishes for its VIP guest. According to sources, the seer held discussion with the UP CM on the recent political developments in the state. "He briefed the BJP leader about the crisis looming on the Veerashaiva community," the added. Yogi assured the Rambhapuri seer that the Centre won't hurt the Panchacharya tradition, said sources.
 
