He is best known for playing the bad guy in  , and now, after a break of three years,   is back on TV with  . The Delhi guy was back home recently and visited his alma mater   to reminisce about school memories.
 
 
  
  Mohit Malik at one of the classrooms of his alma mater Air Force Bal Bharti School 
 
 
 
 Sitting in his old classroom, he tells us, “I am very nostalgic and very happy to be back here. Saamne ek basketball court hai, jahan main cricket khelta tha. Hum school mein pura atthaa maarte thay (bunk all eight periods). Subah-subah aate thay, assembly attend karte thay, bags chhupa dete thay, classroom mein aate nahi thay aur cricket khelna shuru kar dete thay. Ek baar meri class teacher ne yahin se dekh liya tha mujhe aur fourth period mein yahin se bula liya tha. That is one of the memorable incidents in school.”
 “Our group used to sit on the last two benches always and padhai ke naam pe kya karte thay you can understand...(laughs). Bahut thappad khaaye hain, bahut ladaiyan ki hai, bahut masti ki hai yahan iss classroom mein. I wasn’t studious, I was very mischievous. I love my school and the campus. Meri zindagi yahan beeti hai,” he adds.
 Every Delhiite has a special place in their heart for Connaught Place, and Mohit is no different. He recalls, “I have spent most of my school days in CP or areas near CP, like Rajinder Nagar and Patel Nagar. After school, we used to visit Kake Da Dhaba a lot. I haven’t spent much time in GK as I have spent in these areas.”
 
  
  Mohit with the school’s principal Sunita, who was his Business Studies teacher
 
 
 
 After finishing school, Mohit went to   for BCom, but left it to join   in Noida for BBA. “I got through Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, but there it was like whether you go to college or not, koi fark nahi padd raha. There was no proper schedule in life. So I went for BBA in Noida. It was very far for me. I used to take one auto till the toll bridge and then change autos there. My dad never used to give me the car and I used to fight with him for it. In that college, everyone wanted cars, so koi ladki mujhse baat nahi karti thi. I used to visit Atta Market a lot during breaks and have lunch with my friends there.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Mohit, who has appeared in Jhalak Dikhhla Jaa and Savdhaan India, says that reality shows show who a person really is. “Reality shows show your real self, aap kaise insaan ho. I was in the top four in Jhalak and people got to see the real me. The audience gets to see your real personality and they really connect with you.” When asked if he’d like to go for Bigg Boss if given a chance, he says, “I won’t like to do Bigg Boss. I am not a fan, but I like the concept. I was also offered Khatron Ke Khiladi, but I said no. I don’t know how to swim, so I was scared! Main swimming jis din seekh jaunga, I will tell them that I am ready for it.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Mohit’s look in his new show has him wearing a leather jacket and combat boots, with a guitar on his back. “I have adopted a very cool look for this show – combat boots, leather jackets, and a lot of accessories. People in Delhi are very stylish and are usually dressed up like this, so I feel at home wearing all these things here. I feel very north Indian, a Delhi boy, and I personally love wearing jackets. Dilli mein bahut leather jackets peheni hain maine. Mumbai mein mauka hi nahi milta hai. So, my character has the Delhi boy look which I can relate to,” says Mohit.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Unlike most people, Mohit says his journey from Delhi to Mumbai’s showbiz was very easy. “I used to take part in theatre and dramatics competitions in my college. Somebody said achha dikhta hai, get a portfolio done. So I did, and sent the portfolio to Mumbai in 2005, and got a call from a production house. That was my first audition and I was selected, so the journey and the transition from Delhi to Mumbai was pretty easy,” Mohit tells us.
  
  
 
 --Gunjan.Sharma@timesgroup.com
 
