NOIDA: Gautam Budh Nagar   BN   has said notices are being issued to builders to register flats soon after homebuyers occupy them or face strict action for violating the Stamp Act.

 The move comes days after Singh said he had ordered FIRs be filed against seven builders in Noida and   for delaying the registration of over 10,000 occupied flats. The DM, who gave the builders a weeks’ time to register the flats, said the step was necessary because the Uttar Pradesh government was losing around Rs 300 crore in stamp duty.
 
 Singh told TOI the action would be initiated under Section 64C of the Stamp Act, 1899. “The FIR will be filed after sending a week’s notice to the builders,” he said. “No one will be penalised without reason. I have directed officials to examine each case with due diligence before initiating action,” he added.
 
 “Notices are being sent to the builders concerned. Under Section 64C of the Stamp Act, any violation invites a jail term of three months and a penalty of Rs 10,000,” Singh said.
 
 According to administrative officials, the state government was losing Rs 334.13 crore in stamp revenue for non-registration of flats. Section 13 of the UP Apartment (promotion of construction ownership and maintenance) Act, 2010, says a builder cannot allow possession or transfer of ownership rights of a flat without executing the registration.
 
 “We have found seven builders who have violated the Apartment Act. These are the Amrapali Group, Divine India Private Limited,  , Victory Cross Road, Realtors Private Limited, AGC Ajnara Homes and Gardenia AIIMS Glory. These builders have given possession to 10,318 buyers without registration of the properties even though they have the mandatory occupancy certificate from the Noida and Greater Noida authorities,” Singh said.
 
 “We are examining other housing projects. If we find residents living in apartments without registration, similar action is on the cards for the developers,” he warned.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, most of the builders were unavailable for comments. While an official from Assotech said they had no information about the order to register the FIRs, others did not respond to calls.
 
 However, the president of Credai, NCR, Pankaj Bajaj, said: “Builders need to follow the law and adhere to norms besides completing the facilities before homebuyers move in.”
 
