CHENNAI: It was meant to be a move to strengthen the AIADMK party structure by appointing office bearers to posts, lying vacant for long in Puratichi Thalaivi Amma Peravai, a wing of the ruling party. The appointments of sons of deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, fisheries minister D   and former minister B Valarmathi have, however, led to heartburn in the AIADMK, which is yet to overcome the merger pangs of the OPS faction with that of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.

 
 P Ravindrannath Kumar, son of OPS, was appointed as Theni district secretary of the Amma Peravai, while party Lok Sabha MP, J Jayavardhan, son of Jayakumar, and C B Moovendan, son of Valarmathi, were appointed as state level joint and deputy secretaries to the Peravai on Wednesday.
 
 A statement from the AIADMK, signed by party coordinator OPS and joint coordinator EPS, also announced the appointments of a few other state level joint secretaries and deputy secretaries besides district secretaries to the Peravai. While this includes the appointment of former minister K A Krishnaswamy’s son KAK Mukhil as joint secretary, what raised eyebrows further was the appointment of Chennaibased D Ramesh, considered very close to OPS, as a deputy secretary of the Peravai.
 
 Ever since the R K Nagar bypoll debacle and the revolt of T T V Dhinakaran against the party’s existing leadership, the EPS-OPS combine removed more than 3,000 partymen, considered close to TTV, from various posts of the party and its organisational wings. Only a handful of those have been filled up so far.
 
 The latest appointments have left several in the party, especially OPS supporters, baffled. “OPS started his Dharmayudh against the domination of V K Sasikala family in the party and the government. Believing him, several party leaders supported his cause by spending money to organise meetings and also crowds to welcome him en route and cheer him at those meetings,” recalled an AIADMK leader in the erstwhile OPS faction.
 
 After the merger, not only were many of those loyalists left in the lurch, but they were also sidelined when it came to new posts or even during the recent co-operative polls, while a few disgruntled leaders got the posts of organisation secretaries. “When the first opportunity presented itself, as a leader OPS should have got these posts for his loyalists first, before getting one for his son. For the people and by the people, said Amma. It is now for the family and by the family,” said another source in the party.
 
