A few lucky Lucknowites got to spend an enriching evening with National Award winner   director   at a city hotel, recently. While a few quizzed him about his filmmaking style, a few curious ones also asked the 'Ankur',' Nishaant' and 'Bhumik'a filmmaker about how the character Dumrus from his film ' ', got his name. 

  
  Surabhi Sahai (L) and Tazeen Husain with Dimple Trivedi (L) and Kusum Shukla (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Vijay Sahi, Yatindra Mishra and Anurag Mishra (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Bulbul Godiyal and KanakRekha Chauhan and Paritosh (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Iksha, Jayant Krishna (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Jyoti Sinha with Krishna Jafri and Vilayet Jafri (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Anant and Kunjshree Jauhari with   (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
  
  Rashmi Shukla with Sangita and Ajaish Jaiswal (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
  
  Salim Kidwai and Sami (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 Questions were unending for the filmmaker, who, along with wife Nira, had made a brief halt in Lucknow for an informal evening. Talking to scriptwriter Atul Tiwari and Dr Alok Bajpai, at the event, which was organised by Lucknow Expressions, Bengal also narrated how the idea for the story of 'Mandi' was born and how it was absurd for people to raise objections to a movie like 'Padmaavat'. "I also made a two-part episode on Padmaavati in my show ' '. I think it was silly for people to be protesting about an entity which one isn’t even sure whether she existed,” said the filmmaker. “'Padmavat', the ballad, was written by Malik Muhammad Jayasi in the 15th century. It is a very beautiful ballad and that’s why we based our story of   on the ballad," recalled Benegal, adding, "I went not just by history but also literary works that were written about Rani Padmavati at that time; the folk tales and the ballads of that period. We were not just looking at the political theory surrounding the character but also the entire cultural spectrum at that time. So what was all this fuss about the movie, I could not understand," he stated with a smile. 
 The evening, which saw the who’s who of Lucknow, also had Kanak Rekha Chauhan, Yatindtra Mishra, Vilayat Jafri and more, in attendance. 
 The event further cemented Benegal’s ties with the city with him granting permission for a book on him written by writer and journalist late Vivek Chatterjee, to be published by Chatterjee’s daughter. “"It's heartening to know that someone would find me interesting enough to write about me," said Benegal on a humble note. 
 — Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com
 
