Nagpur: The Jamaat-e-Islami Hind (JIH), Maharashtra, has taken the initiative to spread the message of peace through teachings of Quran. The speakers invited at the inaugural ceremony of ‘Islam for peace, progress and salvation’ campaign said proper interpretation of the religious text must be propagated among the public to debunk misinformed notions about the religion.

 The programme was held at Shikshak Sahakari Bank Hall, Mahal, on Friday. Deputy commissioner of police Rahul Maknikar, former chief of Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan Shripal Sabnis, and state president of JIH Taufiq Aslam were present.
 
 The peace campaign will be carried out through talks and symposia throughout the state between Friday and January 21. Aslam informed other regions in the country will also be taking part in the campaign during this time.
 
 Sabnis welcomed the initiative by JIH and encouraged the organization. He said, “The history of Islam is based on peace. Unfortunately, people have grave misunderstanding of the religion mainly because people within the community have enforced certain doctrines, which are a result of incorrect interpretation of the Quran,” he said.
 
 Sabnis cited lack of education among Muslims as the main reason Islam is considered as a religion of hate. As an example, he explained the meaning of the Arabic word ‘kafir’. “Kafir does not mean non-Islamist. It means ‘concealer’ that too in a non-malicious intent. For example, a man who hides the fact he beats his wife is a kafir,” said Sabnis.
 
 “It would be wrong to say that Islam is only followed by Muslims. Prophet Mohammad founded the religion on the principals of peace and harmony. He only took up arms against those who threatened that peace. So, Islam is for the entire humanity,” said Sabnis.
 
 Sabnis encouraged even those outside of Islam must be made aware of correct interpretation of the Quran. “Spreading awareness about the true meaning of Islam among non-Muslims is important, especially considering we are a nation of people who follow different beliefs, ideologies, and sets of moral values,” he said.
 
 Maknikar said, “The true purpose of religion is for development of humanity. As far as Islam is concerned, the Quran clearly prohibits enforcing something on people. This is evident when one reads all Surahs and aayats of the book.”
 
 “The book also says that killing an unarmed person is equal to killing of humanity. If a religion teaches this, how can it be assumed that Islam is a religion which encourages violence,” the DCP said.
 
 
