GURUGRAM: On Monday morning, as residents welcomed the early morning  , a tragedy unfolded not too far from the city. A market full of grains got drenched in Sohna, destroying at least 400-500 quintals of   and oilseeds stored in the open, waiting to be transported to the corporation’s warehouse. With more rain predicted over the next few days, the problem could only get worse.

 Currently, the government acquires   at Rs 1,535 per quintal. There’s no upper limit for acquisition. Mustard is acquired at Rs 4,000 per quintal, with a limit of 25 quintals per farmer. While wheat is acquired by Haryana warehouse corporation, mustard is bought by Haryana state cooperative supply and marketing Federation limited (Hafed) to press for oil sold under their eponymous brand.
 
 Monday’s loss accrued to the corporation, as it had already bought the   from farmers. “We were able to contain damage during Friday’s  , by placing tarpaulin sheets on the stock. But on Monday, it rained early and took us by surprise,” said SDM (Sohna) Satish Yadav, whose office is next to the mandi. 
 
 “For buying mustard, we prepare a roster according to which farmers come here with their crop on different days,” he continued. After the rains, uncertainty loomed among mustard farmers on the roster for Monday, who had already arrived with their produce. “We’re waiting here since 8am. We were earlier told they won’t buy mustard today as there’s no place to store it after the rains. But we’ve already paid for transport, and are now incurring more losses for every hour we keep the tractors waiting,” said Karan Singh Raghav of Badshapur Tether village.
 
 District food and supply controller Ram Avtar said Sohna mandi’s capacity is just 5,000 tonnes as Gurugram is not counted as an agricultural district, compared to the likes of Karnal, Sirsa and Fathehabad, where mandi capacity runs into lakhs of tonnes. “Warehouse corporation has been asked to transport the   to their storage as soon as possible. If it remains clear on Tuesday, they can even get it dried before storing it,” he said.
 
 Officials maintained there has been no loss in the fields due to the rains. “Unlike northern Haryana districts, rice is not sown here, so sowing and harvesting happens earlier here,” he said, adding northern Haryana could face bigger problems due to the rains. 
 
 Farmers, though, disagreed. At the mandi, Narender from Tether, who has two acres of wheat ready for harvest, said he expects to lose 30% of his crop (around 6 quintals or Rs 10,000). “If rains continue, we could lose more. And if we bring it over here, we’ll be asked to get it dried first,” he says.
 
 Later in the day, SDM Yadav announced that mustard acquisition will go on as scheduled, but wheat farmers will have to dry their produce before it’s acquired. 
 
 “There would have been no problem if they had built a shed here,” said Sohna farmer Suryavir Chaudhary. Officials said the proposal to build a larger warehouse nearby has been on the anvil for a while.
 
 
