CHENNAI: A day after sparring in social media, the fissures in the V K Sasikala's Mannargudi family came out in the open on Tuesday, with her brother   hitting out at T T V Dhinakaran for acting independently without consulting partymen and refusing to accept   (AMMK), a party launched by TTV a little over a month ago. 

 "We have not accepted the launch of AMMK. It has been done to erase AIADMK from the political scene. TTV is acting independently and taking decisions without consulting anyone in the party,"   told reporters in Mannargudi on Tuesday evening.
 
 "Dhinakaran has started this party only for the benefit of his family members. In order to force us out, they (TTV camp) are spreading rumours that we are returning to AIADMK. We will not do that and will function separately as Amma faction," Dhivaharan said. He named two of the 18 disqualified AIADMK MLAs (now in TTV camp) - P Vetrivel and Senthil Balaji - and said the two returned to the AIADMK much after he himself did.
 
 Earlier, on Tuesday, participating in a protest meeting in Thanjavur, AMMK deputy general secretary, TTV warned troublemakers of strict action. "By attacking others openly, we should not fall prey to the plans of our enemies. For me, party and relatives are two separate things. Am not afraid of anyone and action will be taken against people using social media to create confusion," said TTV, who had cautioned partymen on Monday from rushing to social media.
 
 It all started over the weekend, with D Jeyanand, son of Dhivaharan, posting a series of 'riddle' posts, without naming anyone or an organization, on Facebook that left many wondering about his intent. In another post, Jeyanand wondered, why certain office bearers are linking his posts to AMMK, when he never mentioned the name of any party in any of his posts.
 
 On Monday, P Vetrivel, one of the 18 disqualified MLAs and a key lieutenant of the TTV camp, hit back at Dhivaharan and his son, stating that "all 18 MLAs" are with TTV, who has been working hard to safeguard the party. "We have sacrificed a lot to be here," Vetrivel said.
 
 On Tuesday, Jeyanand sought to clarify their stand further. "We have not undermined your sacrifice. But, we regret that a leader like you has not understood the happenings in this party. That is saddening and we also know that it was not a statement that you had issued, but one that was prepared by someone else and just signed by you," Jeyanand said, responding to Vetrivel.
 
 
