ARA/PATNA: Thousands of   for the recently advertised railway  , blocked the railway track at Ara railway station for almost five hours on Friday to protest against reducing the age limit for recruitment in Indian Railways and making ITI certificate mandatory to apply.

 Ara station master SK Jain said, “The job aspirants squatted on the railway tracks from 8.35 am till 1.30 pm on Friday. As a result many trains were stranded at different stations. Though we accepted their memorandum in the morning and assured to convey their grievances to higher authorities, agitating students refused to budge.”
 
 While 12 mail and express trains were detained, at least five local passenger trains remained stranded at different stations. According to railway sources, the long distance express trains which were affected due to agitation included New Delhi – Rajgir Shramjeevi Express, Patna -Vasco da Gama Express, Vikramshila Express, New Delhi- Malda Town Express, Danapur- Secunderabad Express, Bhagalpur -Anand Vihar Express, Patliputra-Lokmanya Tialk Mumbai Express, Seemanchal Express, Bhramputra Mail and Patna-Indore Express, sources said adding five local passenger trains mostly MEMU were also detained by the agitators. 
 
 Police and district administration officials including Sadar SDPO Sanjay Kumar, Sadar SDO Arun Prakash also reached the spot and tried to persuade the agitating students but in vain. The blockade was lifted at about 1.30 pm after police chased away them away. “The agitating students were protesting against ITI certificate being made mandatory for most group D jobs in railways, ” said the SDPO.
 
 “We are protesting against the eligibility criteria. Group D posts have been advertised after a gap of four years and the new conditions have made thousands of aspirants ineligible,” said one of the agitating students.
 
 It may be mentioned here that the Union ministry of railways has sought applications for around 90,000 posts for lower grade employees including loco pilots and technicians.
 
 
