Sonam Kapoor and  ’s wedding is one of the most-talked-about news in Bollywood. The first pre-wedding ritual have begun. The first pictures from Sonam's Mehendi ceremony are out and she definitely makes for a beautiful bride. Sonam's childhood friend Kunal Waral shared the first picture and she looks stunning in the photo. Many Bollywood celebs Karan Johar, Arjun Kapoor, Shanaya Kapoor, Janhvi Kapoor have also arrived at the function. Check out the  Mehendi function  photos here: 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   

































































































 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   

































































































 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   























































































 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   

















































































 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   













































































 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   

































































 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   

































































 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   































































 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   































































 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   































































 
  

  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
   


































































































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
  
  
  
  
   


































































































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
  
  
  
  
   


































































































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   


































































































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   


































































































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   


































































































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   


























































































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   
































































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   
































































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   































































  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   






























































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   






























































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   






























































 
  
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   





























































 
	
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   


































 
  
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
  
  
  
  
   

































  
	
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
   
































 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
	
	
	
  
  
  
  
   






























 After months of speculation, Sonam Kapoor and Anand Ahuja's families recently released a joint statement announcing the wedding. The statement read "The Kapoor & Ahuja families, take great joy and pride, in announcing the marriage of Sonam & Anand. The wedding will take place on the 8th of May in Mumbai. Since it is an intimate affair, we request you to respect the family's need for privacy. Thank you for all your blessings and love, as we celebrate this special moment in our lives."  The couple will get married in a traditional Sikh ceremony on May 8. A reception will be held on the same day in the evening. The functions will be held at Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra Bandstand, and The Leela hotel. 
    
     





