DARJEELING: The Bengal government has received Rs 1,500crore business proposals for the Hills on the concluding day of the first Hill Business Summit (HBS) held in Darjeeling on Wednesday.

 The proposals came after chief minister   offered Rs 100 crore from her government’s funds as seed money for setting up business in the area as a gesture of the state’s commitment towards the development of the Hills. The CM’s focus was on the younger generation, many of whom are leaving the Hills for jobs and education, adding to the disgruntlement among the Hills people.
 
 The CM pointed out that apart from the Ambuja Neotia Group and Keventer Agro, Luxmi Tea Group MD   too has promised to invest Rs 350 crore in Makaibari and Matigara. “All these indicate that investors are keen on putting in money in this place. The   has prepared a draft plan on the potential of the area. The MSME department will be doing the synergy to offer the single-window clearance for business. Proposals are coming,” the CM said. On the government’s part, the state will be recruiting 3,000 home guards from the Hills and will also clear the salaries of the   employees.
 
 “Darjeeling is a brand name for people from across the world. The Hills youths have ample talent. They have a rich culture, have extraordinary musical talent. They are smart and have good communication skills. We are setting up cultural hubs in Mirik and an education hub in Kurseong. Presidency University is coming to Kurseong. Kalimpong is also ideal for education hub. Maintain peace and pursue your dream. Dhanalakshmi will come to your doorstep,” the CM said, reminding people that they need to bank on the Bengal government and not on Delhi. “Keep in mind that Bengal is closer to you, Delhi is far away,” the CM said.
 
 Mamata urged the hoteliers to set up more hotels, and youths to come into the homestay business. “I come to hear that all the Darjeeling hotel rooms are full even during April and May. Build some more hotels. The government will facilitate better transport and connectivity,” the CM said. She announced that her government has already exempted tea gardens from education cess and rural employment cess for 2018-19 and is giving 50% concession on tea tourism.
 
