HYDERABAD:The   of Health Sciences ( ), on Monday, reduced the cut-off score by15 per cent for post-graduate medical courses.

 
  
 
 As per the released by the KNRUHS, the cut-off for general category candidates has been revised to 35 percentile (as opposed to 50 percentile), 25 percentile for scheduled caste, scheduled tribe and other backward class candidates (as against 40 percentile) and 30 percentile for persons with disabilities, as against the previous 45 percentile.
 
 The KNRUHS’ announcement to reduce the minimum qualifying marks comes in wake of a large number of qualified students not reporting to PG courses across medical colleges leading to vacant seats during the first phase of counselling from April 9.
 
 Figures provided by the university revealed that 162 candidates, including those who had applied for the master of dental surgery, did not report to the colleges after appearing for the first phase of counselling. Majority of the candidates who did not report had chosen specialisations such as pathology, general medicine, anaesthesia, general surgery, ophthalmology, social and preventive medicine, microbiology etc.
 
 As per the revised cut-off score, eligible candidates can apply online from till 4 pm on May 3.
 
 “Candidates whose names are included in the merit list for management quota are informed to attend verification of original certificates and online counselling on May 2 and May 3 at the Osmania University campus, Hyderabad as per the schedule given in the notification. No separate notification will be issued for first phase of online counselling for management quota,” read the notification.
 
 While the university has reduced the cut-off score to fill vacant medical seats, officials claim that it will drastically affect the quality of doctors being produced in the country. “The exercise of conducting   and allotting seats to meritorious students will become futile with the reduction in cut-off score affecting the overall standard of medical education in the country. The move will primarily benefit private medical colleges that are allotting seats under the NRI and management quotas,” said G Srinivas, advisor of Telangana Junior Doctors Association.
 
