The keenly watched battle between chief minister   of the   and JD(S) MLA   in   turned out to be a one-sided contest, with Devegowda winning by a margin of 36,042 votes.

 
 Chamundeshwari is a Vokkaliga-dominant constituency with the highest number of voters in Mysuru. Siddaramaiah had vacated his Varuna seat for his son Yathindra and come here, the place where he had begun his political journey.
 
 Originally a Janata Party man, Siddaramaiah was part of the Janata Dal and then the JD(S). He quit the party in 2006 after JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda denied him chief ministership, and joined the Congress.
 
 Siddaramaiah had survived the 2006 Chamundeshwari by-election with a slender margin of 257 votes, but could not pull off a win in this election.
 
 Five years ago, the Congress had a clear mandate of 122 seats, and two contenders for chief minister: party veteran and Dalit leader Mallikarjun Kharge, and a very determined Siddaramaiah. Siddaramaiah won, after a ballot among Congress MLAs to choose the CLP leader, which elevated him to the CM's post by default. From the very outset, he stood his ground with the Congress high command, which had bagged   with a huge majority in 1999 after losing several states.
 
 Born into a farming family in Siddaramanahundi village, 23 km from Mysuru, Siddaramaiah had no formal schooling till the fifth standard. Traditionally, families who tilled land for the Siddarameshwara temple dedicated one of their sons to the temple. He grazed sheep, and learned the alphabet by writing on sand.
 
 For the last five years, Siddaramaiah has been a one-man show in Karnataka. The Bhagya welfare schemes for the disadvantaged, the focus on Ahinda (a Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits), and the state budgets had his sole stamp. He has been the first Karnataka CM in 40 years to complete a full term.
 
 Siddaramaiah's quick rise in the Congress party from an opposition leader to the CM, was not easy for party insiders to digest. Even so, he has had a relatively dissidence-free tenure. Two years ago, a rebellion was snuffed by the party leadership, who had realised that there was no alternative to Siddaramaiah. This campaign, too, was clearly Siddaramaiah versus Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a fact acknowledged by Congress president  .
 
 A self-proclaimed agnostic, the 69-year-old now makes way for a successor. He had already declared that this would be his last electoral battle: "I always take things as they come," he had told TOI.
 
