SURAT: Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) unearthed a farm pond (khet talavdi) scam in Valsad and registered four separate offences against nine persons on Thursday. Two persons were arrested by the ACB teams from different cities of the state. Investigation revealed that at least 35 farm ponds were built only on paper. In some cases farm ponds were built in name of farmer who had died long ago.

 The accused have allegedly siphoned off more than Rs 31 lakh by showing that the ponds have been built at the actual sites. All accused have been booked under the Prevention of Corrouption Act and various sections of the IPC.
 
 In the first complaint, Pravinkumar Balchandra Premal, assistant director, Dharampur; Suresh Raman Kishori, field supervisor; Yusuf Abdulrehman Bhikha, field assistant; Sufiyan Yusuf Bhikha, contractor, were booked. A grant of Rs 8 lakh was claimed for constructing eight farm ponds during March 2018 at Singarmal village of Dharampur, but were never built.
 
 In another case,  , the then assistant director who has now retired; Pravin Balchandra Premal, assistant director; Yusuf Bhikha, field assistant; Aditya Vijaysinh Rajput, contractor and Hemant Khamar, contractor were booked. 
 
 The accused claimed grants of Rs 13.48 lakh for 15 farm ponds in Madhuban and Nagar villages of Kaprada in June 2016. However, the ponds do not exist in reality.
 
 Pravinkumar Premal, Suresh Kishori, Yusuf Bhikha and Hussain Ayyub Bala, a contractor, were booked in the third complaint lodged by ACB. The accused had claimed grant money of Rs 2.13 lakh for three farm ponds in   village of Dharampur in January 2018.
 
 In fourth complaint Pravinkumar Premal, Suresh Kishori, Yusuf Bhikha, and Mustaq Ayyub Bala, a contractor, were booked. They had claimed grant money of Rs 8 lakh for building nine farm ponds at Barumal village of Dharampur.
 
 ACB arrested Suresh Kishori and Yusuf Bhika from their residences on Thursday. Police are in search of the other accused.
 
 The investigation in the farm pond scam was initiated by ACB after corruption in Bhimasar village of   taluka of Kutch came to light. An offence in this regard was registered in Gandhidham police station in March. 
 
 Meanwhile, teams of ACB searched office of Gujarat State Land Development Corporation (GSLDC) and recovered Rs 56.50 lakh in cash. Five offences were registered after detailed investigation and recovery of cash. ACB was also informed about similar scam in Valsad district. 
 
 Based on the information an investigation was handed over to police inspector   and S R Patel. During investigation it was found that the farm ponds were never built at 35 locations in five villages of Dharampur and Kaprada talukas of Valsad. 
 
 “ACB has formed six different teams which are searching residences and other locations of the accused in Ahmedabad, Valsad, Panchmahal and Dahod to gather evidences,” said N P Gohil, in-charge assistant director, ACB, Surat.
 
 
