Kudamullappoovinum Malayali Penninum… Vayalar Ramavarma wrote decades ago as the two were considered inseparable — be it at temples, weddings or any other special occasion. With time, just as the tastes of the Malayali woman changed, the much loved   too turned pricey, over the years. This time, the most preferred variety of the flower has hit a record `6,000 per kg, and one muzham (cubit) costs somewhere in the range of `100 to `130, say flower sellers. What’s with the escalating costs, and why can't we cultivate the flower in Kerala itself?

 
 
 The heavy mist in the areas in Tamil Nadu where it is cultivated is drying the flowers and that has led to the reduced production and sky-rocketing costs, according to sellers in Kochi. A M Sasi, a vendor at  , says, “We are told that the production and supply will continue to dip for a few more weeks, owing to cold climates in Tamil Nadu. In Kerala, the Thovalai variety of jasmine is the most in demand but I am not getting it from distributors anymore. For those in dire need, I have procured a little bit of the Nellikkal variety and the odourless Mysore jasmine, which costs `50 and `40 per muzham respectively.”
 
 Another vendor Venu K K has altogether stopped taking jasmine from distributors. “Last year this time, it cost between `1,200 to `1,500 per kg and the prices have climbed even more now. People won’t buy it and I will have to suffer losses if I purchase it.”
 
 Sasidharan Nair, secretary of Trivandrum Florists Association, says, “We are in a situation where we can’t even confirm the daily market price of jasmine. The Thovalai variety isn’t coming in as frequently as before.” While jasmine is also cultivated in areas like Sankarankovil and Thirunelveli, even that doesn’t meet the requirements, so the cost is high, he explains supply doesn’t match demand.
 
 The vendors and cultivators say that in Kerala, the flower is used most for weddings and in certain places, for pujas. Satish K S, a vendor in Pookkaramukku, says, “The common man can’t afford jasmine now but people buy small quantities for weddings. Some buy for temples too.”
 The silver lining, according to Sasidharan Nair, is that jasmine is irreplaceable only in weddings and maybe funeral functions in churches. “People buy pichippoo, as an alternative. However that too costs more than `1,000 a kg,” he says. Thankan, a 
 vendor from Thiruvananthapuram, says, “Though prices have gone up, those in need are ready to pay. Yesterday, one kilo of kudamulla cost `2,000 and pichipoo, `1,300.”
 
 Meanwhile, Sabu Allesh, a jasmine cultivator from Perumbavoor, says that the demand and sale of jasmine is still high in areas like Kodungalloor and Paravoor as there are plenty of temples there. “A renowned tea factory’s representative had also contacted me recently, asking whether we can ensure a steady supply, as they need the powder extracted from it. However, due to the shortage of labour, I could not take up the offer. As opposed to the 50 cents of land I had once devoted to it, I now have only about 30 cents,” he says.
 
 
 
 One might wonder why the flower is not grown in Kerala despite it having ideal conditions for cultivation. Sabu, who grows the kuttimulla variety of the flower here, says, “The climate is congenial and I get a good yield though the area of cultivation is small. However, there are many challenges too. Firstly, you don’t get workers to pluck the flowers on time. There is also a dearth of workers who know how to properly string them together. Vendors are reluctant to take flowers not stringed properly because they have the option to order jasmine chains from Coimbatore without employing a worker, whose wages come to at least `1,000 a day.”
 
 There will be a difference in the weight when you sell the flowers loose without stringing them, he says. “I am now selling them to a local vendor but come what may, he won’t pay more than `350 per kg.”
 Apparently, the maximum demand for jasmine is during the weekends. “But the local cultivators might not always be able to supply according to the demand, especially in the beginning,” says Sabu.
 
 Till a few years ago, there were growers in Ernakulam in Kuruppanpady, Kodanad and Perumbavoor. There was also a society named Perumbavoor Pushpa Karshaka Sangham, which procured up to 400 kg of flowers on some days. “We used to export flowers too, but that stopped as we need a consistent quantity to send, which was difficult,” he says.
 
