HYDERABAD:   lovers in the city will have to wait a little longer to relish the king of fruits at an affordable price, as supplies of the popular Banganapalle and other varieties continue to be sluggish owing to widespread destruction of crop from hailstorms last month.

  
  
 
 While prices continue to be above ₹150 in the retail market, officials expect it to come down only by early next month. “At present, we are receiving only 830 tons of Banganapalle per day which is a 40% drop in supplies compared to last year . Of the total supply per day, 70% is exported to other states and only 30% is left for the local market,” said E  , agricultural marketing secretary of Gaddiannaram, the largest fruit market in Telangana.
 
 Supplies of other varieties such as   and   is even lesser. “The   has dropped to a meagre 200 tons per day, which is clearly insufficient for the local market,” added Venkatesham. The low supply of Totapuri led to rise in prices, he said.
 
 The mango variety which was available for ₹85 per kg in the first week of April now is being sold for ₹189 per kg.
 
 Majority of mango supplies in Telangana comes from Mahbubnagar, Nizamabad, Khammam and Nalgonda, but hailstorms and intermittent showers destroyed the crop across 13,000 acres.
 
 Officials have attributed the rise in price and low supplies to high labour and packaging cost. “Traders are charging an additional amount of up to ₹2,000 per 100 tons to meet their profit margins indicating that mangoes could be dearer this season,” said an official from horticulture department.
 
 “Considering the recent ways of adopted by traders and farmers to ripen fruits, it is very difficult to distinguish between a naturally ripened mango and an artificially ripened mango. However, consumers can make out the difference once they cut the fruit. An artificially ripened mango may look bright yellow at the outside but may not necessarily be sweet on the inside. Whereas, a naturally ripened mango will not only have sweet taste but will also smell sweet and will be juicier,” said Aldas Janaiah, an agricultural expert.
 
