KOLKATA: With a series of   being reported from several institutions, opinion is now split on what age should schools, even parents, start to sensitise their children on ‘good touch’ and ‘bad touch’. While some schools have started it by sensitising 5-6 year olds, experts believe it should start much earlier, just after two years.

 “The teachers should be trained. They cannot be contractual because it is a commitment, just like parenting,” said  , principal of Apeejay School. She added, “The kids crave for attention. Therefore, it is important to teach children as small as five years that attention can be given even without touching. One needs to seek permission even to be physically affectionate to a kid.”
 
 Teachers at   have been told to mention about good touch and bad touch to students aged 6 years and above. “The unfortunate incidents have forced us to introduce the subject. We have for a long time made it a policy that no security guards are allowed to interact with small girl students,” said principal  .
 
 “A girl child aged two should be sensitised about good touch and bad touch. It is a slow process and the mother needs to do it singlehandedly. The child should also be shown visuals and some documentaries about a man with a bad character so that the child is able to identify the points,” said  , consultant psychiatrist.
 
 The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights will soon organize special workshops at all schools to make students as well as the teachers more aware about the good and bad touches. Syllabus committee chairman   said, “We want to start teachers’ training programme where the teachers should prepare themselves and make the students aware of the issue. It is unfortunate that we have to proceed in accordance with an attacking mind of the adults. This means that if the child of Class I or II is molested then it only reflects what kind of society are we living in.
 
 “Students also needs to be told about such incidents. They should be given an idea of what is bad touch. In accordance with the child’s age, we are thinking about starting an awareness programme in schools. But it should be through the teachers. We have already had a meeting with  , chairman of the child rights commission, so that we can proceed with their support.”
 
