KENDRAPARA: From her room in a mud house of   village in Odisha's Jajpur, Swarnalata Dalai had had many an opportunity to look up at the green hills surrounding her village and wonder what happens when you climb one. So, one day, she did just that. The 20-year-old daughter of a landless dalit farmer successfully scaled Mt Everest - the world's highest peak - on Monday. 

 
 As news of her success trickled through television into the suburbs of Kalinganagar, little could her parents and four siblings believe what they were seeing as they sat huddled around a TV set in the same mud house.
 
 "She used to be fascinated by mountains. She would run through the green village fields and speak about scaling the hills surrounding our village. She has won many prizes as an athlete in school, but mountaineering was fairly new to her. She started training only two years ago," said  , the youngest of Swarnalata's three sisters.
 
 Once under a training schedule that covered everything from carrying heavy loads to getting accustomed to sleeping on the snow in tents, Swarnalata began to develop the Everest dream with her mentor Bachendri Pal, the first Indian woman to scale the world's highest peak.
 
 Late on Monday, she achieved the feat with teammates Poonam Rama and Sandeep Toliya, both from Uttarakhand. In February this year, the three scaled Mt Aconcagua - the highest point of  . 
 
 In 2017, Swarnalata scaled   as part of the Biju Patnaik Himalayan Expedition, went on to do the Roopkund trek and then the Indian Women's Gokyo: Everest Grand Circle Expedition, which helped her get selected for the Everest journey.
 
 "It was a great moment for us when we came to know that she has done what she had wanted to do all these years. She had skipped her Plus III arts annual examination four months ago to be able to do this and it has paid off," said Jhunarani.
 
 "Today is a great day for our district. We are eagerly awaiting her return and will felicitate her after her arrival. She has inspired the girls of Odisha with this enormous feat," said Kendrapara collector Ranjan Kumar Das.
 
