PATIALA: Real time data being collected by the   (PPCB) shows that there has been a 30% drop in the number of   burning cases in the state. This season,   farmers have decided to go easy on setting the crop residue on fire as till date 785 cases have been reported from across the state against a total of 1,119 reported during the corresponding period last year. 

 As per the latest figures, the maximum number of cases have been reported from Sangrur district where the satellites caught 65 farm fires till April 29. 
 
 As many as 33 cases were reported from Fazilka and 25 were detected in Ferozepur. 22 cases of stubble burning were detected in Gurdaspur and 21 in Hoshiarpur.
 
 In  , the total number of farm fires discovered was 18 and in Barnala, the number was 16. These cases were spotted using satellite imagery and the data was collected by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre at Ludhiana.
 
 Last year, the PPCB had imposed an environmental compensation of Rs 61.47 lakh on farmers involved in 10,905 instances of stubble burning during the wheat harvest
 
 . This year, up to April 29, the state authorities imposed an environmental compensation of Rs 30,000 on six farmers from five districts out of which Rs 25,000 have been recovered. According to the PPCB officials, the authorities were waiting for the reports to be submitted by the revenue officials before imposing the penalties.
 
 PPCB chairman K S Pannu said the board had made a strong appeal to farmers to save the environment and also the fertility of their own land. "Before the smoke for farm fires reach Delhi or other parts of the region, it has to pass through the lungs of these same farmers and their children," Pannu said.
 
 He said in many villages across the state, farmers have formed groups that had not only pledged to disdain from setting crop residue on fire but were also actively trying to convince other farmers to shun the practice which was causing more harm than good to the farming community. Setting afire the farms also kill the helpful bacteria and also affect the carbon and nitrogen balance in the soil thus increasing the fertilizer requirement and subsequently the input costs, Pannu said.
 
 Burning 1 tonne of the wheat residue destroys 4-5 kg nitrogen, 2-3 kg phosphorus, 12-20 kg potassium which is present in the crop residue and if mixed in the soil it can help bring down the input cost of the farmers by almost 50 %. 
 
 
