NEW DELHI: Battling through  ,   rescued four   who had got stranded on the terrace of the burning factory building in   on Saturday. Otherwise, survivors said, the death toll would have been more than 17. 

 Following a PCR call around 6.20pm, a team from the Shahbad Dairy police station reached the spot and tried to douse the flames on the ground floor with a hand-held fire extinguisher. However, the blaze had spread rapidly and the chance of another explosion stopped the cops from going beyond a shutter at the entrance. Fire officials later found two non-functional fire extinguishers and a hydrant that was not connected to any water source. 
 
 “Our team reached the F-block with a fire tender and an additional tank around 6.45pm. The first-floor fire was controlled by a quick reaction team (QRT) that had reached before us. We could see people waving at us from the terrace, but it was difficult to even enter the building due to the smoke and heat. We had to wait another hour before stepping in,” said Ashok Kumar, a fire officer.
 
 The building on a 120-yard plot has two entrances, one of which is permanently locked. Firemen had to negotiate the blaze only from the front and the terrace of an adjacent factory at the rear of the affected building. They said that if the blaze had spread, it would have affected seven more buildings. 
 
 “The fire had created the effect of a pressure cooker, suffocating people inside. Even we had to wear gas masks,” said a fire officer. A QRT member said the victims did not get even a second to escape the building that had suddenly turned into a furnace. 
 
 The fire brigade received three calls from the area and after classifying the fire under the make-4 category, additional deployments were sent from four fire stations, said a source. 
 
 Senior officials said a fire tender from Bhorgarh fire station had brought the situation under control by the time other teams reached there. Later, the cooling operation began and as a joint team of the fire department, Delhi Police and CATS ambulance entered the premises through the main gate, it found the shutter only partially open.
 
 “Such was the impact of the blaze that many of the victims died sitting in their working positions. We found two bodies on the stairs who had collapsed and asphyxiated while trying to run towards the terrace. A woman’s body was found sitting in a corner with her hands on the knees,” a fireman said.
 
 Some policemen said two nearby rooms remained untouched by the fire, with one of them even having a mobile phone charging. Safety, it seems, was just a few steps away.
 
 
