BENGALURU: As he campaigns on a sizzling afternoon in Chittapur constituency in Kalaburagi district, IT-BT minister Priyank Kharge is a worried man. The Congress candidate says he’s concerned – more than the opposition challenge, about the 44 degrees Celsius heat that could keep voters away on May 12.

 
 “The soaring mercury is posing a problem for candidates holding public meetings. We are being forced to ensure a shamiana and drinking water, lest people suffer a sunstroke. Some party fans still ignore the heat and come to our rallies. But this really is a terrible time for elections,” Kharge says.
 
 
  
 
 
 Across Karnataka, campaigning has become torturous as the mercury has shot beyond 40 degrees in a majority of the districts. While voters can stay away from campaigns, politicians do not have the luxury of staying indoors.
 
 Star campaigners, including PM Narendra Modi, AICC president Rahul Gandhi and UP CM Yogi Adityanath have started hitting the road for the last leg of their parties’ campaign, but candidates are worried that the relentless sun could pose a huge challenge in bringing voters out of their homes.
 
 Modi was quick to tap into the temperature at his Udupi rally on Tuesday. Lauding the gathering for braving the hot sun, he said, “Aap is taap mein tapasya kar rahe hain. Aap ki joh yeh tapasya hai, hum isse vyarth nahin jaane denge (You are doing penance under this hot sun. We will not allow this penance to go futile.)”
 
 A copious supply of buttermilk and water sachets helped the Udupi gathering beat the heat. “We don’t feel like listening to speeches of any leader these days. We only want to save ourselves from the heat,” a BJP worker quoted voters as saying.
 
 Many contestants have changed their strategies, rescheduling their canvassing for the early or latter part of the day, and opting to campaign in shifts. They are finding voters more receptive during breakfast meetings or post-sunset gatherings.
 
 Iqbal Hussain, Congress candidate from Ramanagara, prefers door-to-door campaigns till late night and group meetings in the morning. BJP candidate Shashikala Jolle, contesting from Nippani in Belagavi district, finishes her morning doorto-door campaign by 11am. She resumes after 4pm and ends it around 7.30pm, before heading home.
 
 Many candidates in Old Mysuru region too, where the mercury is scaling new heights, have resorted to morning and evening campaign shifts.
 
 A Met official says the heat is likely to stay for early May. Unseasonal showers in mid-April and dry spells following it have sent temperatures surging, he said.
 
 
