CHANDIGARH: The fourth edition of the UILS’ National law Festival, Arguendo’ 2018 concluded here on Sunday. As many as 48 teams from across the country participated in all-India Gurcharan Singh Tulsi Criminal Law Annual Moot Court competition, 2018 and client counseling competition—the two main events of the fest.

 The all-India Gurcharan Singh Tulsi Criminal Law Annual Moot Court competition, saw participation of different law colleges, from all over India. The preliminary rounds were held on February 2 and the finals were organized on Sunday and the team from School of Excellence in Law, Chennai stood as winners of the event. The winners took home Rs 1 lakh cash prize and a winners’ trophy. Symbiosis Law College, Noida won the second prize and Rs 60,000 cash prize.
 
 School of Excellence in Law, Chennai and Symbiosis Law College, Noida reached the final round after successfully examining the witnesses and defending their case. The competition was adjudged by a panel of UILS’ alumni, advocates and judges from the district court as well as the   and Haryana HC. 
 
 The final round was judged by  , a Panjab University alumnus and an eminent   lawyer along with Justice   and Justice  , sitting judges of the Panjab and Haryana high court.
 
 Moreover, the 7th Dr   UILS National client counseling competition was also organized along with the trial advocacy competition. The propositions were based on the ‘NDPS, Company Law, Criminal Law, Family Law, Prevention of  , and other allied subjects’. Each team was given a client with a set problem and the participants were required to console the aggrieved client. Besides this, they also had to assist the client by giving the necessary remedies available in the most sophisticated and professional manner. 
 
 VM Salgaokar, Goa, Department of law, PU, Faculty of law, Delhi university and Symbiosis Law School, Pune made their way through the preliminary and the quarterfinal rounds held on Saturday. 
 
 The main attraction of the 3-day event was the UILS Carnival‘18 exhibiting the entrepreneurial skills of the students on Friday. Various attractive stalls showcasing varieties of food, games, music, etc. were put up by the students. A special stall to promote hygiene in food for a healthy lifestyle was set up by the students in order to encourage them to inculcate healthy food habits.
 
 
