Aurangabad: Dr   ( ) administration presented an annual   of Rs 320 Crore for academic year 2018-19 on Tuesday.

 Bamu vice-chancellor B A Chopade, in his introductory speech, said the budget was prepared by keeping in mind the upcoming visit of   ( ).
 
 “The NAAC has revised its pattern for evaluating higher institutions and our university will be first state university in Maharashtra to undergo scrutiny as per the new rules. We have made certain budgetary provisions to enable university sail smoothly through NAAC scrutiny,” he said.
 
 While exact budgetary provisions could not be ascertained, it was learnt that allocation of over Rs 16 crore has been made towards related facilities and infrastructure. It includes allocation of Rs 9.97 crore and Rs 6.4 crore towards research projects and improving digital facilities at library, respectively.
 
 While the examination department of BAMU often remains in news for wrong news, the annual budget has sanctioned nearly Rs 23 crore for its strengthening. Among other provisions, funds worth Rs 69 crore have been kept aside for salary of staff, Rs 1 crore have been reserved for different fellowships.
 
 Also, Rs 1 crore and Rs 65 lakh have been reserved for the department of students’ welfare, and earn and learn scheme, respectively. Allocation of Rs 9.9 crore has been made to give financial boost to the sports department. The budget for academic year 2018-19 has been increased by nearly 11 crore as compared to the previous year.
 
 The budget was not finalised by senate as heated discussions on certain provisions and proposed cut-motions were on till late Tuesday evening. Earlier, a section of senate members tried to stall the proceedings saying that the meeting being conducted had no legal framework in the wake of statutes not getting framed among other technical reasons. Some members also raised objection to they were allegedly not given adequate time for submitting senate proposals and cut-motions.
 
 Responding to such allegations, Bamu acting registrar Sadhna Pande produced correspondence from the office of chancellor, dated February 22, offering green light to the senate meeting. On charges of some members denied submission of proposals and cut-motions in writing, she said laid down procedure was followed by varsity administration to reach out to senate members in whatever time available. 
 
 
