Nagpur: The dusty and ill-kept Kasturchand Park is all set to get a facelift. A plan to turn the 21.45-acre open space in the heart of city into a public utility area with a jogging and  , and paving the area around the heritage features has been approved by the Heritage Conservation Committee at its meeting held on December 21.

 A competition inviting plans for development of KP ground was initiated by the collector in association with the Heritage Conservation Committee a few months back, says architect Ashok Mokha, member of the committee who will also be undertaking the development work.
 
 “We had invited amateurs and professionals for this competition but received only five entries. None was of any consequence,” Mokha told TOI. The committee then invited plans for the second time from students of various architecture colleges with support of their faculty. “This time, we could select two designs from IDEAS and SMMCA and my office helped in preparing an integrated plan for the park,” says Mokha.
 
 The responsibility for developing KP ground was given to NMC by the collector. The civic body has now asked Mokha to implement the phase-I development plan. “My office once again invited suggestions from common people to learn about the requirements,” says Mokha as he explained the details of the plan which will cost Rs11crore.
 
 A 200-feet high flag post had already been approved by the high court. The ground will now get 1km separate jogging and cycling tracks along the periphery of the ground, which will be designed to ensure that cyclists and joggers move in the opposite directions to avoid collision.
 
 The area at the entrance will be paved and merged with the tracks, and there will be plantations on both sides of the tracks to provide shade. The compound wall around the park will be repaired and MS railing will be installed to raise its height. A pay and park area has been carved from the ground on the LIC square and St Joseph School side.
 
 “We plan to have plantations between the tracks and compound walls as this will reduce noise, arrest dust and increase the oxygen levels,” says Mokha. Lights will be put up along the tracks for illumination. A huge LED screen will be put up at the Metro station opposite RBI. It will be visible to those in the ground and can be used for giving social messages. There will be signage and intermittent seating arrangements too, he says.
 
 The two utility blocks at the park will have restrooms for men and women and drinking water facility. “The toilets will be windowless and are designed to capture natural light and air. A play area for children is also being planned,” says Mokha.
 
 Elaborating on the restoration plan for existing heritage structures at the ground, Mokha said, “There is one main structure and five ancillary ones which we plan to illuminate. We are creating a paved circle around these heritage features which will be restored in the second phase of the development plan. As of now, we will try to restore the existing fountain.”
 
 Rain water harvesting through percolation well methodology will also be undertaken.
 
 Lauding the plan, lawyer Shriang Bhandarkar, who has been appointed amicus curiae by the high court for KP ground, said, “This is a very logical move as it will free the ground from sundry activities and will promote a culture of sports and fitness in the city.”
 
 As the ground is in the centre of the city, turning it into a destination for fitness activities will be convenient, feels athlete Miten Rambhia. “But its maintenance is paramount and the authorities should charge from those using it,” he adds.
 
 
