CHENNAI: The Madras high court witnessed heated arguments over   (ED) summons to senior advocate and former Union minister P Chidambaram’s wife   in a case related to the West Bengal Saradha chit fund scam.

 While Nalini’s side argued that the Code of Criminal Procedure barred women from being summoned out of their place of residence in an inquiry, the Centre argued that Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) empowered the ED to summon anyone, including women, and the special Act had overriding power over the CrPC.
 
 Justice S M Subramaniam, before whom the matter came up for argument on Friday, remarked: “Enforcement authorities have their own powers and limitations. The court can interfere only if they act excessively.” Pointing out that the summons was issued in 2016, the judge said, “The petitioner has gained two years by virtue of the interim stay. Why cannot she appear before the ED and sort out the issue and help the investigation.”
 
 He went on to observe: “If every woman in the country seeks protection under Section 160 of CrPC, will it be practically possible for the agencies to go to every one of their location to get statements?” To this, Nalini Chidambaram’s senior counsel   said, “If it is not possible, the law must be amended, and it is for the Parliament to decide. As the Parliament has considered women, children and senior citizens as vulnerable, a policy protection has been given under Section 160.”
 
 Noting that despite a statutory prohibition to summon women, and men below 15 years and above 65 years, to appear for inquiry out of their place of residence, the ED had issued the summons, Parasaran said: “Section 160 of the CrPC clearly says that a woman cannot be summoned out of their place of residence for any inquiry. The provision applies for proceedings under PMLA also so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of PMLA.”
 
 She has already submitted all documents and statements as required by the agency through an authorised person, he said, adding that she had not approached the court to quash the summons. “All that she insists is when there is a statutory protection, the agency cannot demand her personal appearance.” Opposing the contention, additional solicitor general   said: “Provisions of PMLA empower ED to summon any person. No provision of the Act requires authorities to comply with Section 160 of the CrPC. In fact, PMLA has overriding powers over inconsistent statutes.”
 
 Earlier, Satish Parasaran submitted that Nalini Chidambaram refused to appear before the ED not due to her incapacity to travel, but standing by the principle laid down by law.
 
 Recording the submissions, Justice Subramaniam posted the plea to April 17 for passing orders.
 
 
