Upcoming artists are finding a new platform to showcase their talents at open mic events which are getting high traction in the city. Helping them out are the just founded cafés and small eateries looking for footfalls. The scenario is also working for guests at these places as it adds to the dining experience. The three-way process is currently driving the cultural scene, loaded heavily in favour of youth.

 With the age band of the performers, organizers and the audience being between 19 to 25 years, the content veers towards modern sensibilities. “The opportunity to showcase talent should ideally have been provided by school, colleges and educational institutes. But there is such a paucity of events being held there that youth has decided to take things in their hands,” says Vastsal Kothari who recently organized an event titled ‘Kafila’ at a small newly opened café. “Literature and comedy remain the staple of these events,” says Kothari and adds that success is important as it brings more audience and performers too.
 
 The story telling collective like Terribly Tiny Tales, the sudden surge in young poets putting out their videos on YouTube has encouraged many to indulge in literary pursuits feels Abhijeet Bose who was among the first to hold such events. “It was last year in April that a group of young people who dabbled in poetry decided to create a platform for themselves. At every meet we feature the works of a poet and give ten slots for open mic,” says Bose who is planning his next event at a coffee lounge.
 
 The poets event organized on April 13 at a fine dine restaurant at Sadar saw an attendance of more than 200 poetry lovers. “Our event last month at a Ram Nagar café had a 150 strong audience,” says poet Azeem Khan who organized it under the name ‘Ek Dastaan’. 
 
 “Eateries provide us with good seating arrangements and ambience and help us save money on venue. They get visibility in return,” he says. Fifty-five poets participated in the first event and 62 in the second one. “The applause that these upcoming poets receive validates their work and encourages them. I have observed the improvement in the quality of their writings from one event to other,” Khan says.
 
 But the concept is threatening to get hijacked by restaurant owners who are using it to promote their establishments. “An open mic event is actually for the artist who tests his act before an informal audience. This was happening in the initial days,” says standup comedian Paras Batra who has done over 30 open mics. 
 
 “But now the approach is very casual. Too many artists are given slots in one event, attention is not paid to sound system and at smaller places the seating is crammed. The quality of the event suffers due to this,” he says. “Open mics started in Indore after Nagpur. Now the audience there is paying to attend as the quality and content is extremely good,” adds Batra who performs in Indore too.
 
 “Most of these events nowadays have a very casual environment,” agrees   who attends quite a few of them. “Only a selective portion of audience takes the performances seriously. Initially the quality was very good but now only few places put up good acts,” he says and adds, “But the concept is here to stay as performers gain a lot of confidence and open mics are very good for building communities. ”
 
 
