AHMEDABAD: A young teacher in the arid district of Banaskantha in   has injected a shot of energy into the boring social studies and Hindi lessons as he daily kicks off teaching with an invigorating song and dance show to make learning fun for his wards. A video of Rohit Patel, a teacher in Arnivada village in north Gujarat, edutaining his students has gone viral on social media. 

 Teaching since past seven years, Patel (28) says 'abhinay geet' (method of  ) is part of the curriculum in BEd courses but few teachers put the same into practice.
 
 Patel recalls he first started his teaching career as a class 1 teacher in a government primary school in Diyodhar village in Banaskantha. "I incorporated lessons in songs and drama on an experiment basis to engage newly enrolled students who are loathe to leave their parents and come to school. The experiment proved an instant hit as they stopped crying and started happily coming to school in big numbers," recalls Patel.
 
 Patel was transferred to Arnivada village in 2015 and entrusted with the task of teaching social studies and Hindi -- subjects generally found boring by students of north Gujarat region. "It was difficult to reinvent social studies lessons into musical or drama form which prompted me to involve the entire class to teach social studies through play-acting. For example, I hold election in the class, set up an election centre and put a ballot-box where in four dummy contestants including two girls and boys, are asked to contest the polls. This way, I can make them understand technicalities of the polls enumerated in the chapter," said Patel. 
 
 Patel says that after years of experimenting and reinventing teaching through music and drama, he has made it the hallmark of his profession. 
 
 "It takes the burden out of learning in school turning teaching also an act of immense joy. Plus, it helps enhance the confidence of students who lose all stage fear when they see their teacher dancing in front of them and are encouraged to break free of all inhibitions," says Patel.
 
 
 
 
 While Rohit Patel follows his heart, his method is reaping rich dividends as the number of students attending school has jumped from 14 students two years ago to a record 69 now, says school principal Gayatri Solanki.
 
 “Education in schools begins with Patel's lesson in the assembly for all children which is a huge attraction pulling more students. The strength of students attenting school has risen from 200 to 376 now,” added Solanki.
 
 Village Sarpanch Rajaji Solani said, “Village has found a great teacher in Patel Saheb after a long time. Every village school needs a teacher like him”
 
 Ankit Patel, Rohit Patel’s friend, who uploaded the video on social media which eventually went viral said: “My aim was to show that how a government schoolteacher can beimaginative in his teaching. I never thought it would become an internet rage in the state."
 
 C P Patel, principal in a BEd colleges, said that ‘Abhinay Geet’ is part of teachers’ course curriculum aimed at enhancing bonding between teachers and students. “If more teachers imbibe this, it would help improve quality of education and sustain students’ interest.”
 
 
  
 
