

 
 It all started with a short music video that I posted online wherein I am moving my eyebrows to the song: Shape of You. When I woke up the next day, I was taken by surprise to see that it had over 60k views and 9k likes on the video. The post went viral on many social media platforms. Besides online popularity, people on campus started calling me Pune’s Priya Varrier and showered me with appreciation. This was the time when I realised the power of social media. Now I am in talks with a Marathi filmmaker to sign a movie. I had least expected that my   will make me so popular. Social media can change everything.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 I started rapping since 2008 after being inspired by Bohemia. But I became popular as a rapper in Pune. All thanks to social media. I recorded my raps on various subjects which I had observed around the city. In fact, one of the funniest incident that I recall is when a friend of mine who had downloaded a rap which he found to be very good asking me to follow it. When I heard it, it turned out to be my own. Although some do not know my name in the college, they know me as Rapper. Also, no one asks me if I am going to perform in cultural programs anymore, they simply put up my name as a performer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 When I started the page, it was merely a way to express my feelings towards my close ones, especially my girlfriend, since I am not very expressive. Little did I know that a page which I had started as my personal diary would become so popular. The satirical way in which I put forth my feelings, resonated with other men, thus gaining the page a lot of followers. In fact, till I reached 100k followers, I did not even reveal my identity. And when I did, everyone, especially in my college were shocked, since I seem like a different person offline. The situation is so now that everyone knows me in my college. In fact, I have become their go-to person when they need any relationship advice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ilove making videos. That’s the reason why when there was a video making competition in the city, I jumped at the opportunity. Although I did not win the competition, people started calling me the ‘video guy’ in my college. The video I had made was called Dhakkan and now whether they know my name or not, I am known as Dhakkan in college. Ranging from funny videos, travelogues to some informative videos, I have put up everything on my channel. I had not expected such a great response for my video. But it made me popular overnight for sure.
 
 
 
 
 
 My Instagram page is dedicated to one-liners and poetry. Basically the page is dedicated to my love for words and languages. Earlier, I used to write for myself, but one day it occurred to me, why not bring it out to people? The topics range from love, relationships and heartbreaks. I was really surprised when my poems started receiving a lot of traction online. Now, I regularly post quirky takes on relationships and life in Pune.
 
 
 
  
