There is nothing stronger than the heart of a volunteer. Cities like Pune can thrive on this spirit - of taking up broom and filling the troubling gap between government plans and execution. City-based Being Volunteer, is one such initiative. If it is for the benefit of their beloved city and its residents, it's a job for them. 

 The organisation was setup in 2015 and it regularly holds tree planation and nurturing drives aimed to widen Pune's precious but dwindling green cover.
 
 Kailas Narawade, one of the organisation's 15 founding members says they are trying their best to fill the gap between want and will.
 
 "There are a lot of people in the society who want to contribute; who want to do the right thing. But they do not have the means. We try to hold plantation and nurturing drives to help boost that motivation."
 
 Over the course of three years, the group has planted hundreds of trees at five locations in the city, including Chaturshringi Hills, Hanuman Tekdi, Malunge Hills,   and the Ayyappa Hill. 
 
 "Most of the volunteers are those working in the software industry or other corporates. Apart from watering the plants, volunteers also work on the soil to improve yield. The plantation drives are usually carried out between June and August. For the rest of the year, much of the focus is on nurturing the saplings," adds  , a resident of Baner in the city.
 
 Water for the trees is drawn from water tanks at the hills using plastic cans. The group keeps a constant watch on the tanks' water levels and if they drop, the volunteers summon water tankers for quick top-ups. Much of their activities are carried out in co-operation with other citizen organisations in the city that are working on conservation or cleanliness - Pune has a massive network of these groups. 
 
 "We have introduced drip irrigation systems at a few of the locations we have worked on. We have a drip irrigation system installed at ARAI Hills that provides water to around 300 plants. It's because of these systems that we are now able to carry out plantation drives in the summers as well," Naraware says.
 
 However, Being Volunteer is slowly going beyond the plantation drives. The organisation also holds cleanliness drives at Sinhagad Fort. Volunteers visit the Fort on Sundays for a site clean-up aimed at removing plastic litter along the trekking trails. 
 
 "We are also trying to educate people who work at the site. We have asked vendors to keep dustbins on the ready for their customers and even the tourists are told to avoid using plastic near the historic structure," Naraware says.
 
 The organisation's cleanliness initiatives have now spread across the city - covering junctions, major roads and other infrastructure. 
 
 "People from our group recently cleaned up a stretch of the Magarpatta flyover. We also worked to clean up part of Malunge. At these locations too, besides collecting the plastic waste, we also try to educate shopkeepers on the hazards of using plastic bags."
 
 The organisation has also been responsible for collecting newspapers from about 15 housing societies and four corporate offices.
 
 "The newspapers are then sold to city-based NGOs that work towards recycling or upcycling of products. The money collected from the sale is used to sponsor a child's education. Last year, we were able to sponsor 15 children just by selling newspapers," Naraware added.
 
 We have a drip irrigation system installed at ARAI Hills that provides water to around 300 plants. It's because of these systems that we are now able to carry out plantation drives in the summers as well
 
 We have a drip irrigation system installed at ARAI Hills that provides water to around 300 plants. It's because of these systems that we are now able to carry out plantation drives in the summers as well
 
 
