BENGALURU: Four former chief ministers turned to Bengaluru in search of safer poll pastures, and got elected. But no Bengaluru-bred politician has made it to the coveted chair of the chief minister of Karnataka.

 Bengaluru has had its own share of political titans since 1951, when the state’s first-ever assembly elections were held. They include K T Bhashyam, T R Shamanna, K M Naganna, M S Krishnan, A Lakshmisagar, Dayanand Sagar and V S  .
 
 
 Though many big Bengaluru leaders were from the ruling parties, none of them reached the top rung, till   legislator   became deputy chief minister in 2012-2013.
 
  
  
 
 “Barring a few like Ashoka, a majority of leaders from Bengaluru have focused more on issues relating to the city. They had to devote themselves to local administration and could not focus on politics and broaden their support base beyond the city,” said S Mahadeva Prakash, a political analyst.
 
 The constantly changing demography of a cosmopolitan city like Bengaluru could also be a hindrance to these politicians, in forging alliances beyond the city.
 
 “Migrants have dominated the city electorate all along, and political parties prefer to field candidates who can strike a chord with them. This is the reason why candidates in certain constituencies in Bengaluru keep changing and in the end, no one is seen as the proverbial ‘son of the soil’,” said Vatal Nagaraj, who was twice elected   — from Chickpet in 1967 and from Chamarajpet in 1973.
 
 The reason leaders with political heft, like K J George, Roshan Baig, Zameer Ahmed Khan and NA  , failed to ascend beyond a point, could lie in their roots. But things have been the same for leaders like Ramalinga Reddy, V  , S   and M Krishnappa, who are seen as anything but outsiders in state politics.
 
 “Honestly speaking, city leaders, including me, have never tried to acquire the stature to become chief minister. Being a leader representing a city like Bengaluru, I cannot afford to tour the state, leaving behind the issues dogging my constituency. This may be one reason why our presence is limited to our constituency and a few neighbouring ones,” said home minister Ramalinga Reddy, a city MLA since 1989.
 
 Ashoka and Somanna, incidentally, have time and again been seen as representatives of Karnataka’s two dominant communities,   and Lingayat, respectively.
 
 “But community support alone is not enough to become the leader of the state. I think it is time for city leaders to introspect and change our approach,” said Ashoka, a city MLA since 1997.
 
