' ' star   has been on roll. The actor has endeared himself to the people with his bold, yet casual attitude and free-spirited nature. The actor, who has impressed the audience with his choice of films, recently caused a stir on social media when he referred to yesteryear actress   as a "cool chick". 

 "What a cool chick. #Mahanati (sic)," the actor posted on Twitter along with a poster which stated that Savitri was a race car enthusiast with a penchant for collecting vintage cars. 
 
 Within moments, social media trolls took offence to Vijay describing her as a "chick" and demanded an apology from the actor. A defiant Vijay, however, hit back at trolls and asked them why they were silent when she was called a home breaker. 
 
 "All who want an apology - chennai Leela Palace lo unna ocheyandi. I will even be giving you 
  audio launch entries. She would have been happy to have you all back then - because appudu me lanti morals and ethics batch called her a home breaker and alcoholic. She was many things fearless, philanthropic, generous, but at her core she was like anyone else a girl with dreams first, a woman who loved & wanted to be loved next and a superstar last. (sic)," Vijay posted on Twitter. 
 
 The actor also went on to state that had Savitri been alive, she wouldn't have had any objection to being called a "chick". 
 "I think she would have been super happy to be called in admiration "what a cool chick" ☺ compared to home wrecker and alcoholic. (sic)," he added. 
 
 A week later, as the stir settled down, Vijay is a lot calmer but remains defiant that he will not apologise to anybody. In an interview, the actor says, ""If someone's understanding of it is so crude, then it's none of my problem. As I understand it, people have opinions, people have intentions. I let it be for the most part. But I don't like being told how I should say stuff, how I should do stuff. You pass your opinions on me. I am fully okay with that. But don't dictate to me what I should or shouldn't do."
 
 Besides ' ', Vijay also awaits the release of 'NOTA' and ' ' this year. 
 
 
