MUMBAI: A deputy engineer working in the  , who came under suspicion in a   and was arrested by the ACB, has been reinstated with dignity two years on.

 It transpired that deputy engineer Mohan Wasudeo Patil had been framed by his rivals and some contractors. 
 
 Patil and his assistant were caught by the ACB while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000 from a Thane-based contractor. Offences under the Prevention Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code were registered against Patil and his assistant, who was also an employee of the Thane zilla parishad. Since he was in   custody for more than two days under the provisions of the Maharashtra Civil Service Rules, Patil was suspended on July 25, 2016. On December 17, 2016, the department refused permission for his prosecution and dropped a proposal to conduct a departmental inquiry against him after which he was reinstated on April 13. According to reports, Patil had no association with the Thane-based contractor nor was he supervising any of their works.
 
 A senior bureaucrat said the ACB report and observations of then Thane zilla parishad chief executive officer Uday Chaudhary were placed before a high-level review committee set up to consider cases of suspension. “The committee examined all aspects, particularly the comprehensive report submitted by Chaudhary and recommended to reinstate Patil. Accordingly, Patil has been reinstated,’’ he said.
 
 Chaudhary confirmed to TOI that he had submitted a report to the water supply and conservation department, stating that the department should take a fresh review of the entire case and that Patil should be reinstated. “I felt that Patil is a good officer and was performing his duties. As a deputy engineer entrusted with implementation of water supply schemes, he had taken on several erring contractors. It appears that he was framed by some contractors. Under such circumstances, I felt that he should be reinstated,” Chaudhary said.
 
 While the committee recommended to government to reinstate Patil on July 20, 2017, his reinstatement happened after nearly nine months. “The committee’s recommendations were placed before the competent authority as well as chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Along with his reinstatement, Patil has been transferred from the Thane zilla parishad to Buldhana,’’ a bureaucrat said.
 
 
