VADODARA: Days after the   approached the Mumbai high court seeking to appoint a committee of administrators for governing the Mumbai Cricket Association, a   ( ) member has taken a similar step. Former Mayor, Dr Rajendrasinh Rathod on Monday wrote a letter to the charity commissioner and requested to appoint an administrator. 

 Rathod and BCA member Dr Rajendra Dhopte have listed the alleged administrative failures of the current management in the letter. “The current managing committee is functioning illegally as its tenure has completed long ago. They don’t have any right to run the association now. So, I have requested the charity commissioner to appoint administrator who will govern the BCA,” Rathod told TOI. 
 
 “There is no president of the association, no vice-presidents and both the secretaries are just appointees. Is this how a cricket association functions? I have also demanded that election for various BCA posts be held as early as possible,” Rathod said. When asked if he would want to contest the polls, Rathod said that he wishes to fight for the BCA president’s post. 
 
 In the 10-page letter to the charity commissioner, Rathod has raised several issues including increase in loans and advances, expenses for maintaining some cricket grounds and even the advocate feels paid for fighting legal cases. He has also pointed out to absence of elected president and said that only an administrator can stop financial irregularities in the BCA. 
 
 Rathod has also demanded in his letter that the administrator should recover the losses to BCA from the current management. “If the charity commissioner doesn’t act within next 15 days, I will approach the   high court,” Rathod added. 
 
  BCA treasurer Amul Jikar said, “The association is fighting legal case for its existence as a full-fledged member of the BCCI. We are waiting for the final verdict of the   before conducting elections. The tenure of the current managing committee got extended as there is no clarity on new method of elections. Also, we are running BCA efficiently.” He added that an elected body should run the association rather than an administrator. 
 
 
