MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has lifted a two-year embargo on aviation authorities deciding on applications to relax height restrictions of buildings in the vicinity of the airport. It will benefit all those who want to build beyond the prescribed height in the restricted area around the airport and also old buildings that are seeking relief. 

 
  
  
 
 They can push their cases before the capital’s appellate authority, which can relax these restrictions after taking into consideration various factors. There is a gradient for height restrictions on structures within a 20-km radius of runways to ensure safety of planes and residents.
 
 The   in the capital will be able to take up individual cases as a division bench of Justices Satyaranjan Dharmadhikari and Prakash Naik vacated its interim orders restraining it from deciding on applications.
 
 The committee can order an aeronautical study for each project to be conducted by the   (AAI). After the report is submitted, it can take a decision on whether to relax or enforce the height restrictions.   told the bench it will deal with the cases as soon as possible.
 
  to stay its orders was rejected by the court as the next meeting of the committee is likely to be scheduled for April 26. “We are not inclined to continue the embargo or prohibition, particularly the restraint on passing final orders. The authority can take a decision in accordance with law,” said the bench, adding that the petitioner had adequate time to challenge its orders or the validity of the 2015 rules framed by the civil aviation ministry.
 
 In September 2016, the HC had restrained the authorities from hearing applications for relaxation in height restrictions within the funnel zone — the approach path of low-flying aircraft — as well as buildings which fall within 4km of the runway and approaches. In March 2017, the court had allowed the authority to process the applications but prohibited them from taking a final decision.
 
 The court was hearing a PIL filed in 2014 by advocate   claiming that the safety of air passengers as well as persons staying in the vicinity of the airport in Mumbai was at risk as height restriction rules were being violated. On Thursday, the HC disposed of the PIL in light of the 2015 rules, giving the petitioner the liberty to challenge the new norms, if he so desires.
 
 A colour-coded map was brought out in 2015 with a detailed list of height restrictions around the existing Mumbai airport and the proposed Navi Mumbai airport. For example, within the funnel zone, the height of buildings depends on their distance from the runway end. The height of the buildings closest is capped at around 7m. Within the 4km radius zone, called the Inner Horizontal Surface, the maximum height of buildings prescribed under the Development Control regulations is 56.9m.
 
 The appellate committee can relax these restrictions after taking into consideration various factors, including the shield effect. If a permanent structure is taller than a proposed building coming up behind it, it can apply for permissions to construct up to that height.
 
 (With inputs from Manju V)
 
 
