Ranchi: Jharkhand Mukti Morcha ( ) working president   on Tuesday hinted his party will contest the by-elections to the   and   assembly seats on its own.

 “The Silli and Gomia assembly seats belong to the JMM and will remain so,” Soren told reporters at his Kanke Road residence on Tuesday. When asked whether the opposition will contest jointly, Soren said, “JMM will win both the seats at any cost.” 
 
 The Gomia seat fell vacant on February 10 this year after its sitting MLA Yogendra Mahto was disqualified after being sentenced to two years in jail in a coal theft case by a lower court in Ramgarh on January 31. Silli MLA Amit Mahto, also a JMM legislator, was given a two-year jail term on March 23 by a lower court in Ranchi for beating a government officer in 2006. He was disqualified by Speaker Dinesh Oraon on April 2. 
 
 By-elections in both the assembly seats are expected in the next six months.
 
 Soren’s stance will mean problem for  , which had forged alliance with the JMM in March ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls and announced to contest the 2019 state assembly polls under Soren’s leadership.
 
 Reacting to Soren’s statement, a senior Congress leader said, “This is too early to make such speculations. Preparations for the by-elections have also begun in our camp.”
 
 Soren, who is also the leader of opposition in the state assembly, alleged that the BJP-led NDA government in Jharkhand is using government machinery to target the opposition MLAs.
 
 Soren also trained his guns at the CM’s speeches in the ongoing campaigns for the April 16 civic body polls. “He is talking about development and reigning in on corruption. They have unlawfully awarded several contracts to their favoured people. His government siphoned off crores of public money meant for purchasing blankets during the winter. The state revenue suffered a Rs 600-crore loss last year as the government took over retail liquor sale. Which development is the CM talking about?” the former CM questioned. Soren also invited Das for a public debate in Morhabadi Ground.
 
 
