TRICHY: Angry farmers and cadres of various opposition parties continued to resort to various forms of agitations across the delta districts on Friday demanding the setting up of Cauvery Management Board as mandated by the  . 

 Members of the Desiya Thenninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, headed by its state president P Ayyakannu, buried themselves in sand up to their necks in the Cauvery riverbed. In all, 25 members of the association participated in the novel protest posing as dead bodies wearing garlands. The protesters alleged that the BJP-led central government had been acting against the interests of farmers in Tamil Nadu. While demanding that the Centre honour the Supreme Court's order to constitute the   immediately, they said it would help farmers get the due share of water from Karnataka. The protest that began at 10.30am ended around noon when police forcefully removed them from the riverbed. 
 
 Meanwhile, around 100 protesters from Tamilaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam attempted to besiege the international airport in Trichy. While they managed to enter the airport from the main entrance, police intercepted them by placing barricades and arrested them. In a parallel development, over 100 cadre from the same party were arrested while attempting to besiege the income tax office at Tiruvarur. While they were marching towards the office located on  , police denied them permission to proceed further and arrested them. 
 
 In Thanjavur, police arrested 80 college students and youths while they were protesting in support of CMB. The agitators headed by the federation’s organiser, Arun Shory, ventured into the Putharu (new canal) and started to protest raising slogans against the Centre. A police team headed by Deputy Superintendent of Police Vallam, Jayachandran arrested them. Around 50 advocates affiliated to Kumbakonam Bar Association were also arrested by the police as they blocked the Cholan Express at Kumbakonam railway station. More than 100 engineers affiliated to civil engineers association staged a hunger strike at Mannargudi in   pressing the same demand. P Maniarasan, President of Tamil Desiya Periakkam, inaugurated the protest.
 
 Meanwhile actor and DMDK leader Vijayakanth arrived in Tiruvarur to address a meeting at Keela Veethi organised against the Centre for not constituting Cauvery Management Board. Wife Premalatha, party’s state youth wing secretary Sudhish and various party functionaries participated at the meeting.
 
 
