CHENNAI: With the regularisation scheme for unapproved plots winds up on Thursday, applicants are racing against time to register under the amnesty scheme. In a span of one week, more than 66,000 applications have been filed to regularise unauthorised plots. About 1.91 lakh applications have been received seeking regularisation of unapproved plots across  . The amnesty scheme introduced in May 2017 is likely to be extended by six months to bring more unapproved plots under the ambit of regularisation. 

 Vice-chairman of the Builders' Association of India's Southern Centre   attributed two reasons including simplification of regularisation process, wherein submission of the layout framework was not necessary for the last minute rush. This apart, the government has recently carried out several camps across the state to create an awareness about the ongoing scheme. 
 
 "Against this backdrop, the deadline for the regularisation scheme is also ending on Thursday. This pushed the number of applications by about 66,000 within seven days. While the total number of applications that were filed seeking regularisation till April 23 was 1,25,000, it jumped to 1,91,350 on April 30," he said. Of these, 1.65 lakh applications were filed in directorate of town and country planning (DTCP) areas and the remaining 26,350 are located in the   ( ) areas comprising Chennai and parts of   and Tiruvallur districts. 
 
 Ramaprabhu further said that there are about an estimated number of 17.23 lakh unapproved plots all over Tamil Nadu with nearly 2.25 lakh are in localities falling under the purview of the CMDA.
 
 Though the state government launched the amnesty scheme on May 4 last year, it evoked lukewarm response forcing the government to confine the open space reservation charges for unsold plots in unapproved layouts. 
 
 However, the online scheme failed to attract more applicants in the light of the condition to provide entire layout framework for regularising individual unapproved plots. This anomaly was eliminated after people were allowed to file their applications without the layout framework.
 
 According to  , former president of the Association of Licensed Building Surveyors, Coimbatore, heavy development charges for regularising unapproved plots still prevents a chunk of people from registering under the scheme. 
 
 
