

 The modern lifestyle of people in India and behavioural qualities of cats have persuaded pet lovers to adopt them. In fact, cats are becoming increasingly popular as   all over the wo rld – and in some countries have started to outnumber dogs (the most popular pet as companions). In addition, maintaining a cat doesn’t burn a hole in your pocket. They take up less space and there is no need to take them for walks or exercises. Also hear this: they keep themselves clean! 
 
 Unlike other pets, cats also need a balanced diet to keep fit and healthy. Research and development over the last 60 years have shown that cats have specific requirements. There are a variety of products to choose from, including diets specifically designed for different stages of their lives. Cats are true carnivores and have unique nutritional requirements compared to dogs. Here’s what to keep in mind... 
 
 
 
 Dietary protein supplies essential amino acids and is needed for the manufacture of antibodies, enzymes, hormones, and tissues as well as proper pH balance. It is essential for the proper growth and development of cats, and aids in keeping them energised. Complete proteins contain ample amounts of essential amino acids, which unfortunately cannot be compensated in a home-fed diet. 
 
 Cats need animal sources of this nutrient, as the amino acids from vegetable sources aren’t well utilised. How much each animal may need can vary slightly due to a variety of factors – physiological state, age, activity, and the digestibility of the protein source being fed. Overall, just remember that cats have a very high requirement for protein.
 
 
 Another unique requirement for cats is taurine – an essential amino acid that is required in a cat’s body for normal function of heart muscles, vision and reproduction. It is very important to feed your cat the appropriate amount of taurine since their bodies don’t manufacture it. 
 
 This organic compound is responsible for many biological and metabolic functions, like formation of bile salts for digestion, function of cardiac, brain and nervous system, female reproduction and fetal growth. Moreover, it is also accountable for the development and function of retina cells and controlling blood sugar levels. Therefore, in order to maintain a healthy immune system, it is essential for cats to obtain taurine through food.
 
 
 
 These nutrients are essential for metabolism regulation and normal growth and function. Usually found in food, some are synthesised within the animal’s body. They are classified as either fat or water soluble.
 
 Fat-soluble vitamins include A, D, E, and K. The water-soluble group includes C and the B complex. Generally, fat-soluble vitamins are stored in the body, while water-soluble ones pass through more quickly. Once again, the carnivorous cat utilises animal sources of nutrients more readily than plant sources. For example, felines can’t convert beta-carotene from plants into vitamin A (as some animals do), so they need preformed vitamin A from an animal source. It’s best to buy specific cat food from the market to make sure your pet gets all the essential nutrients.
 Maintaining a cat doesn’t burn a hole in your pocket. They take up less space and there is no need to take them for walks or exercises
 
 
 
  My cat is pregnant and I’m worried about her and her unborn kittens’ health. Is there any precautions/medication that I need to arrange for them? 
 
 
 
  Gestation period for cats is approximately 64 days, and may vary. If delivery proceeds normally, which is the case most often, a few contractions will discharge kittens. A kitten should exit the birth canal within 10 minutes of being visible. If mother does not remove the sacs or the kitten is unable to breathe, you should be prepared to intervene or inform a vet. Select a kitten box, lined with newspaper, prior to the delivery and place it at a chosen place. The amount of food offered to a pregnant cat should be gradually increased through gestation. Kittens’ eyes open between 10 and 16 days, and the ears open a day or so later. The queen spends 70% of its time nursing the kittens.
 
 
