PATNA: Electioneering for the byelection to one parliamentary and two assembly constituencies in the state has reached its peak with the   of different political parties hitting the ground zero.

 The byelection to   Lok Sabha and Jehanabad and Bhabhua assembly seats will be held on March 11.
 
 Chief minister and JD (U) national president Nitish Kumar is slated to address election meetings at Araria, Jehanbad and Bhabhua later this week.
 
 On the BJP’s request, the JD (U) has fielded former   Abhiram Sharma as its candidate from Jehanabad. The saffron party has fielded former MP Pradip Kumar Singh from Araria and Rinki Pandey from Bhabhua.
 
 JD (U) sources said Nitish and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi would address two rallies at Araria on March 7. The CM is also expected to address an election meeting at Bhabua on March 8 and two more rallies in Jehanabad, according to JD (U) spokesperson Sanjay Singh.
 
 RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s wife and former CM Rabri Devi reached Jehanabad on Monday, where she was to address election meetings in support of party candidate Suday Yadav, who is former MLA Mundrika Singh Yadav’s son. The seat fell vacant due to the death of Mundrika.
 
 Lalu-Rabri’s son and leader of opposition in assembly Tejaswi Prasad Yadav is already canvassing for party candidate Sarfaraz Alam in Araria. The seat fell vacant due to the death of Alam’s father and RJD neta  .A former JD (U) MLA from Jokihat, Alam got the RJD ticket after he quit the JD(U) on February 10.
 
 “Araria and Jehanabad are important seats for the RJD as they were won by it in the last election,” said RJD spokesperson Shakti Singh Yadav.
 
 The Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) has also sent its star campaigners to ground zero. Acording to BPCC’s acting president Kaukab Quadri, former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar held an election meeting at Bhabhua on Monday in support of party candidate Shambhu Singh Patel. Several other party functionaries, including MLA Awadhesh Singh, Sadanand Singh and Shakeel Khan, are touring all the three constituencies,   said.
 
 
