Nagpur: Goof ups with RTE admissions in Nagpur continued on Tuesday also when a couple of parents were turned away by a school claiming it had never registered for the process. CG Wanjari Public School (WPS) in Narsala had boycotted the RTE process over pending bills and was auto-registered by the education department. On Monday too, some RTE parents were allotted a school which has been shut down and seized by a private bank for loan default. Without the knowlege of WPS, it was included in the RTE lottery pool this year and students were allotted to it in the first draw held last week. Rambhau Wanjari, the school’s trustee, said, “The education department used data from last year to register us online. Now parents are lining up at the school to confirm their admissions even though we have no role to play yet.” He, however, added that as soon as the education department reimburses his pending RTE bills, all admissions will be done. For parents, this tug-of-war has become a problem. A parent, who did not wish to be identified, said, “Education officials are asking us to bring a written refusal letter from the school. But the school says it is technically not refusing admission because it was never part of the RTE admissions in the first place.” Education officials told TOI that no parents will suffer due to these issues. Dipendra Lokhande, district education officer, said, “I have already asked my team members to visit the school on Wednesday and sort out the problem. As per law, admissions will have to be given if all documents of the student are in order.” But for Wanjari, his grouse with the education department does not end there. On the RTE admission document, Wanjari’s school is listed as CBSE-affiliated. “Mine is a state board affiliated school and I have written several times to the department to rectify the mistake, but to no avail,” said Wanjari. RTE activist Shahid Sharif said, “If only the education department conducts the process of school recognition, then all these problems will be solved. Regular checking of facts and financial statements will ensure that parents do not suffer during RTE admissions.”