PANAJI: In a major relief to   owners whose   was sold by other co-holders, the   of Bombay at Goa has held that the deputy   cannot order partition of properties in favour of the purchaser when a dispute is raised by the owners.

 “Once a dispute was raised to the title, the deputy collector had to lay off his hands to the partition and could not order the partition on the specious premise that the area purchased by the respondent from the larger property stood identified on the basis of the plans annexed to the deed,” Justice Nutan Sardessai observed.
 
 The court order is significant for a tiny state where disputed properties are sold by co-owners or non-owners and the administrative machinery orders partition of the property in the case of pending ownership disputes before the civil court.
 
 In this case, Gold Resorts and Hotel Pvt Ltd had sought partition of the property before the deputy collector, Canacona, after purchasing a property measuring 10 lakh sqm, at Loliem.
 
  Bought in 2006, the property was part of a survey area of approximately 28.9 lakh sqm.
 
 Father of the petitioner, Ramkrishna Janardan Bhat, objected to the partition proceedings and stated that the property purchased by the company exclusively belonged to him and some others heirs. He also pointed out that a civil suit was filed against the company in a Canacona court. 
 
 However, the deputy collector overruled the objections and ordered the inspector of survey and land records to partition the area of survey no. 328/1. The petitioner challenged the order before the administrative tribunal, where he failed. He then approached the high court.
 
 During the hearing, the petitioner’s lawyer Sudesh Usgaonkar argued that Section 61 of the Goa Daman Diu Land Revenue Code, 1968, bars partition when the title to the property is in dispute. The survey records of the property showed that there were several co-holders and that it measured 28,91,500 sqm, from which some co-holders had sold 10 lakhs sqm to the company.
 
 Advocate Shivan Desai, who appeared for the company, said that there were plans annexed to each of the sale deeds identifying the property sold to the company and hence the deputy collector was justified in ordering the partition of the property.
 
 The high court noted: “The deputy collector had not held any inquiry while dealing with the application of the respondents no.1 (company) under Section 61 of the law. There was patent contravention of Section 61(2) proviso even though there was a dispute of title.”
 
 The administrative tribunal clearly went contrary to the mandate of the proviso to Section 61(2) of the law, the court held.
 
 
