CHANDIGARH: The five-year BE (Chemical)   integrated course will continue to run in   University Institute of Chemical Engineering & Technology, Panjab University, for the session 2018-19. The decision was taken in a meeting held here on Thursday. The course will be included in the admission prospectus for 2018-19 session. However, the university will keep trying to get AICTE and UGC’s approval for the course.

 Sources said that since Panjab University is an autonomous institution, it can still run the course without the approval of the AICTE and  . It was discussed in the meeting that even if the course can be run without approval, attempts would be made in getting the same approval so that the market value of the course increases.
 
 Panjab University in its syndicate meeting on April 29 had accepted the request of the students to reduce the duration of BE (Chemical) MBA integrated course from five-and-a-half years to five years for the ongoing and future sessions.
 
 A committee constituted by Panjab University vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover had held a meeting on March 27 and decided that the duration of the integrated BE (Chemical) MBA course should be reduced to five years for the existing students. The committee believed since the course is no longer included in the AICTE approved course list, the existing batches may be allowed to complete the course in five years, ensuring that the syllabus is not reduced.
 
 However, the committee had suggested that if the department is able to get it approved from any governing/regulatory body like the UGC, the department may continue to run the course. The committee further recommended that to compensate the revenue loss due to closure of this course, the department may increase the fee structure in other courses.
 
 The university had written to the UGC on July 13, 2017 seeking approval for running the course, however, the department did not receive any further communication. The committee in a communication sent to Grover, requested that an urgent reminder may be sent to the UGC on the issue.
 
 
