Mysuru: Individuals who tread the  , regardless of the hardships they face, will be remembered and cherished, and the Mysuru Maharaja   is the perfect example of this, said the scion of the erstwhile Mysuru royal family Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar here on Wednesday.

 Yaduveer, who was at a ceremony to release a souvenir on Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, ‘Nadu Kattida Nalwadi ge Namana (Saluting Nalwadi, the architect of the state)’ organised by the Karnataka Sena Pade, said, “Nalwadi’s contributions to the state are many – the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) Dam, improving the education sector and providing social justice. He emulated Lord Shri Ram, and treaded the path of Dharma despite the many difficulties he had to face. Though he faced many difficulties, he strived for the people’s welfare.”
 
 Pointing out that the healthcare system in the state during Nalwadi’s time were better than those that existed during that period in Great Britain, Yaduveer said, “The Wadiyars gave a lot of importance to healthcare, and established institutions that surpassed those in Great Britain.”
 
 Recalling an anecdote that has been handed down generations, Yaduveer said, “While he was travelling from Mysuru to Bengaluru, a railway employee closed the gate near Bidadi. When the Maharaja’s driver went up to the gateman, asking him to open the gate, the latter said that the gate would be opened after his Maharaja (train) passes by. Nalwadi summoned the gateman, and rewarded him with money to show his appreciation for his sense of duty.”
 
 In a veiled jibe at chief minister Siddaramaiah, who stated that he had disbursed funds for welfare projects in a manner similar to that of the Wadiyars, head of the Karnataka State Open university’s ancient history and archaeology department Shalva Pille Iyengar said, “People may not remember all the Maharajas of India, but Mysuru Maharajas continue to be remembered to this day because of their governance and contributions. Politicians of today claim to have achieved more than the maharajas. They have crores of rupees, but Nalwadi did not have much money. He pledged gold ornaments belonging to his mother and wife to build the KRS Dam. Today, politicians govern the state according to their whims and fancies.”
 
 Iyengar also pointed out that the Wadiyars of Mysuru were revered outside the state as well. “The Maharajas could have framed laws that suited their needs but they chose to make laws that benefitted their subjects. Owing to their contribution in the fields of education, healthcare and social justice, they have gained worldwide recognition,” he added.
 
 
