BAREILLY: An eight-year-old boy,  , was electrocuted on Monday morning at   under Nakhasa police station jurisdiction in Sambhal district after he accidentally came in contact with a broken live high tension   lying on the ground. He was crossing the road when he came in contact with the live cable. Some passers-by spotted the boy’s body and informed his family. Police also rushed to the spot.
 
  Villagers blamed the electricity department for the accident. They alleged that the cable had broken two day ago and despite informing the electricity department, no action was taken.
  
  However, superintendent engineer   denied the allegation leveled by villagers. He told TOI, “It cannot be possible that a live wire of 11 KV would have snapped two days ago and lying on the ground. As soon as we get the information about any broken cable, we switch off power supply. In this particular case, the cable must have been broken around an hour or two before the accident but nobody complained about that.”
  
  Pandey said he had informed senior officials and an ex-gratia of Rs 1 lakh would immediately be given to the family of the victim.
  
  Police said Vishal’s grandfather had gone to a nearby temple and the boy was going there to meet him there when the accident happened. “Around 100 metres ahead of the temple on Keshopur-Kokapur village road, a broken live high tension cable was lying. When the boy was crossing the road, he came in contact with the cable and was electrocuted. Since it was 11 KV-cable, the boy died on the spot,” said inspector Sarvendra Kumar Sharma, SHO of Nakhasa police station.
  
  Two villagers Munnu and Sompal who were returning home from the fields spotted the boy and immediately rushed to his house to inform the family. They also informed the police as well as electricity department.
  
  SHO said deceased’s father Anek Singh has lodged complaint against the electricity department’s junior engineer. “An FIR under IPC section 304 A (causing death by negligence) has been lodged against the JE concerned. The body has been sent for post-mortem examination,” SHO added.
