Nagpur: It is not just the politics within the   ( ) that is affecting the game in the region. Lack of job opportunity is also keeping players away from hockey, lamented  , manager of   — one of the oldest hockey club of city.

 Kanojiya is also the secretary of the club that was formed in the early 1960s. Once the power house of city hockey, Nagpur Athletics Club’s history is full many triumphs. But all that is just a legacy now.
 
 Just like Kanojiya many other present on the VHA ground on Monday were left with heavy heart. The once fabled Nagpur Athletics struggled to find full-time hockey players for its first match of the current season.
 
 They somehow formed a team by convincing few ‘out-of-touch’ former players to turn up on Monday. The Nagpur Athletics think-tank risked being embarrassed by a one-sided defeat. All they wanted was to not to forgo the tradition of participating in the VHA Senior Division League.
 
 Since none in their ranks was in touch with the game, the result wasn’t a shocker. They went down to State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) 8-0. The Athletics midfield manned by the likes former national player  , skipper Rakesh Kanojiya and Vasu Kanojiya did a good a job to stalling SRPF charge.
 
 The trio was nicely complemented by their goalkeeper Divyanshu Kanojiya, who made three brilliant saves before the break, as Athletic conceded just 2 goals in the first-half.
 
 Once Athletics men started to look tired after the break, the fit and quick footed SRPF men increased the pace to leave their rivals stunned. Making most of the out-of-touch opponents, SRPF scored as many as six goals in the second half.
 
 “These days the players from the region don’t have a motivation to take up the game. There are hardly any job opportunities offered in the government sector. So, why will players come and play hockey?” Dharamraj Kanojiya said post the drubbing.
 
 He also rued about the change in criteria of recruiting a player. The players from the team that finish among the top-three in national or All-India University meets are given preference over others.
 
 “As far as I remember, Nagpur University was never among the top-three teams at national level. Not at least in last ten years. Even the VHA team never manages such a finish in the nationals. So where will our players go now,” Kanojia said.
 
 “Earlier, anyone who represented university and VHA in national tournaments used to be eligible for jobs. This kept every player in the region motivated,” Kanojiya, who is also the executive member of VHA said.
 
 At present Dhyanchand Sports Academy is the only active hockey club in the city. They play various All-India tournaments. Of course, they have the finance to take their team to various outstation tournaments. Other clubs are not that lucky.
 
 In the 2000s there were 12-15 quality hockey clubs in Nagpur. Now, only Athletics Club, Eagle Sporting Club and Kamptee United from that batch are active. Rest have been closed down due to unavailability of players and cash crunch.
 
 
