NEW DELHI: Observing that it was not inclined to grant any relief due to the “conduct” of the 20   MLAs before the  , the Delhi high court on Friday refused interim protection to the lawmakers facing disqualification. The move was challenged by six of the MLAs in the high court on the ground that they were never given a hearing in the matter.

 However, Justice  , during the late-evening hearing, repeatedly pointed out that records showed the MLAs had refused to participate in the proceedings before the EC. “You don't have a stay from the high court but you tell the EC that it should not touch the matter as the high court is seized of it. Your conduct is such that you do not care to go before the EC. Who stopped you? The high court did not prevent you from going before the EC," the judge remarked. 
 
 The court ticked off the MLAs for trying to use the “pendency of your pleas in the high court as a shield" and said it is not inclined on this account to issue any order unless it hears the EC. Justice Palli then posted the case for Monday and asked the EC to inform if the recommendation had indeed been communicated to President   as the MLAs have sought that they should be heard by the poll panel if no such communication has been made.
 
 Those before the court are law minister Kailash Gehlot, Som Dutt, Nitin Tyagi, Madanlal, Sanjiv Jha and Sharad Kumar.
 
 The bench was unhappy with the MLAs' conduct of “dictating” to the poll panel. It was referring to the MLAs' petitions filed in August last year challenging the poll panel's decision to continue hearing a complaint against them for allegedly holding an office of profit though a division bench of the high court had given a verdict that the appointments were illegal.
 
 In their plea in HC which is pending, the MLAs have argued since the appointments were held to be illegal by the court, they never held the office for which EC wants to decide on the plea of disqualification. But HC had not stayed the EC proceedings and had issued a notice asking for a reply.
 
 The court, however, decided to wait for the EC’s stand till Monday after its lawyer told the court he had no instructions from the poll body if a recommendation had been sent to the President. On being asked by the court to check with the ECI, he sought time saying he was unable to verify so late in the day.
 
 Advocate Manish Vashishth, appearing for one of the disqualified MLAs, Sharad Kumar, told the court that the poll panel has not heard them before arriving at the decision to disqualify them. He also said that till date, the ECI has not filed its reply in HC to their petitions filed in August last year.
 
 The court saw merit in this argument and pulled up the EC counsel. “There are 20 people involved. How can you take it so lightly," it asked, after which the lawyer for the EC said a reply would be filed in two weeks in the main petitions in which the applications were today moved challenging the poll panel's recommendation to disqualify the MLAs.
 
 Earlier in the day, the affected MLAs had through their counsels mentioned the application before a bench headed by Acting Chief Justice   for an urgent hearing. It was then listed before Justice Palli.
 
 
