VIJAYAWADA: Residents of hilly   and houses constructed in assigned lands across the city are happy with the decision taken by cabinet subcommittee to regularise their properties and issue pattas. Around 15 thousand families in the city will be benefited with this decision and thousands of families residing in canal bunds are unhappy with the government's decision to relocate them in some other places.

 Telugu Desam Party which promised denizens to regularise houses constructed in government lands without any legal objections and mentioned it in its manifesto in 2014 elections.Residents of   areas in Gunadala, Moghalrajpuram, Chittinagar, Vidyadharapuram and other areas have submitted their applications to the joint collector and eagerly waiting for the process to begin.
 
 Cabinet sub-committee on Tuesday accepted to issue pattas and also accepted to provide sale rights to the 40,000 residents of hilly areas who acquired pattas a few years ago. “We sincerely thank our legislators and VMC for understanding our genuine problem and regularising our constructions. We are residing here for almost three decades and finally we got recognised by the government,” says Marella Srikantha a resident of Christurajapuram.
 
 Meanwhile, residents of illegal houses in canal bunds are unhappy with the decision of the government. “Government which regularised houses in hilly terrains by denotifying them can also regularise our houses. Telugu Desam leaders are simply escaping by showing court directions on canal bunds and water bodies. We will start agitations if they don't consider our requests,” says   a resident of Lenin Nagar in  .
 
 Altogether 32,000 families are residing in canal bunds across city and government is trying to destroy their habitat in the name of canal bund beautification which is just to encourage corporates, alleges Communist Party of India Marxist (CPM) capital region organizing secretary Ch. Babu Rao. Cabinet subcommittee sang the same old song saying that they will relocate them to new residential colonies which will not happen in near future, he said.
 
 The government should construct alternative houses first and then start canal beautification works, says Babu Rao. 
 
 
