LUDHIANA: Tightening the noose around marriage palace owners, who did not clear their dues to the department despite several reminders, the   ( ) is going to serve sealing notices to 57 such   by Wednesday. The officials claimed they would start the sealing exercise, because owners of these marriage palaces did not pay up for regularization of their palaces.

 At present, there are 268 marriage palaces under Glada’s jurisdiction, but despite several attempts, only four are declared legal by the department. The department had sealed 32 palaces around two years ago, because they could not be regularized, and till date, they are sealed. Apart from this, the process for 133 marriage palaces is still going on.
 
 Officials claimed that out of the 133, owners of 57 marriage palaces did not deposit their dues, including change of land use (CLU) charges, and external development charges. Through these sealing notices, they are going to give a last chance to owners of these palaces to clear their dues, failing which they will have to seal the palaces.
 
 Meanwhile, Glada’s estate officer (regulatory)   said: “We had served notices to palaces earlier also, and at that time, they had come forward to get their palaces regularized by getting building plans approved and paying other charges, but some of them have not cleared their dues so far.” He said they would serve the final notice to these marriage palaces, after which they would begin the sealing exercise.
 
 Notably, Glada had invited applications for regularization of marriage palaces from 11 August 2017, and the owners were given time until the end of October last year. But during this period, only five had come forward for the same. Later, officials served notices to the palaces, and the time limit was also extended until December last year. Now, the regularization process is going on, but some palaces still did not clear their dues. 
 
 PALACES UNDER GLADA
 
 Total: 268
 
 Regular: 4
 
 Authorized: 33
 
 CLU charges deposited: 62
 
 Rejected and sealed: 36 rejected, out of which 32 sealed
 
 Applied for regularization: 133 (in process)
 
 
