THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOZHIKODE: The   government issued a fresh   alert on Friday and directed the health administration in all districts to screen people who had close contact with even suspected   patients.

 
 Health minister K K Shailaja said those that had come in contact with Nipah patients should be cautious till the end of the virus’s incubation period and, hence, daily screening of these people has become essential to prevent the spread of the brain-damaging illness. Till now, 16 of the 18 people who tested positive for Nipah virus have died. The condition of the other two patients is stable.
 
 Health department officials say the Nipah ‘contact list’ has been expanded. As of now, there are 1,949 persons in the list who are regularly being monitored by health workers. In another precautionary measure, all nine staff members at Balussery taluk hospital in Kozhikode district have been given leave. Two people, who died of Nipah infection, had undergone treatment at this hospital.
 
 Meanwhile, the experimental drug imported from Australia is learnt to have arrived in Delhi. “Indian Council for Medical Research (IMCR) has suggested that the service of an expert be availed for mixing and administering of human monoclonal anti-body. A decision in this regard will be taken after discussions,’’ said Dr R L Saritha, director of health services.
 
 On Friday, six more persons in Kozhikode were admitted to hospital with symptoms of Nipah,Saritha said.
 
 In  , district medical officer Dr K P Reetha said that “four patients are under observation in the isolation ward of the district hospital for Nipah virus” with two of them having gone there from Nipah virus-affected Kozhikode and Perambra areas.
 
 The Thamarassery diocese, meanwhile, has decided to alter the serving of Holy Communion, asking priests to place the wafer in the hands of devotees rather than on their tongues. Thamarassery Bishop Mar Remigiose Inchananiyil in a circular also urged believers to follow the directions of authorities to prevent the spread of the deadly virus. 
 
