NEW DELHI: If you thought that SUVs are diesel-guzzling vehicles that often choke and pollute the roads, it’s time to think again. With the environment and global warming playing a critical part in defining automobile policy across the world, there is a growing realisation that pollutants need to be addressed through cleaner fleets, and, thus, enter efficient electric off-roaders.

 
 Electric cars — the talk of the 2018   — are foraying into possibly one of the most challenging segments: SUVs. Off-roaders are often used for inter-city and long-distance travel and turning them into electric raises questions about the ease of charging them.
 
 “Shortcomings around the charging infrastructure exist in the electric vehicle space at the moment and remain a key challenge,” a senior functionary with a top automobile company said, requesting anonymity.
 
 However, with the government showing seriousness on the issue, carmakers across the world have started working on — with some even rolling out — SUVs that run on electric. Product development in this area is also backed by strong sales trend towards SUVs.
 
 At the Auto Expo, a host of cars have been displayed that will run on clean fuel. For example, Hyundai’s Kona SUV will be the company’s first electric car in India.
 
 “We will launch Kona next year,” Y K Koo, MD & CEO of   in India, told TOI. The company said it will test the demand for electric vehicles in India through Kona as SUVs at present are the fastest-growing segment of vehicles.
 
 Vikram Pawah, president of   in India, said electrification and cleaner drivetrains will increasingly find a space in the portfolio of automakers. The company is also considering a variety of new options in this area, including plug-in hybrid electric vehicles.
 
 The Mercedes-Benz pavilion features an SUV from the company’s upcoming ‘EQ’ electric vehicle range. The vehicle is based on the company’s GLC mid-size SUV.
 
 “With ‘Concept EQ’, Mercedes showcases how electric cars can soon move into the fast lane. The concept vehicle, with the appearance of a sporty SUV, gives a preview of new-generation vehicles with battery-electric drives,” Roland Folger, president of the company’s India operations, said.
 
 Tata Motors, which has displayed two new SUV concepts (to be launched between now and 2019), also plans to have electric versions for them, officials said. The offroaders — H5X and 45X — have been developed on an architecture derived from the company’s luxury brand Land Rover.   and Mahindra, too, has displayed an electric version of its KUV100 mini off-roader. “This car may be launched during the year,” a top company official said.
 
 Companies are also making efforts to launch e-versions of other vehicles such as sedans and hatchbacks.
 
