HYDERABAD: Cyber crime police have booked three cases against fraudsters for duping jobless people in the name of Canada visa and permanent residency (PR). According to Hyderabad cyber crime cell slueths, the culprits lured the victims in the name of Canada visa and collected lakhs of rupees.

 In the first case, Syed Yakoob, 33, an unemployed resident of Yousufian Colony in Chandrayangutta, was approached by someone representing Star Visa Consultants from Delhi with a job offer in Canada in February 2018.
 
 
 Yakoob, in his complaint, alleged, “They promised to get Canada visa and asked for ?7.5 lakh processing fee of which 50% had to be paid before hand. They then asked me to book an air ticket to Bangkok on a tourist visa. They said they would pick me up at Bangkok airport. I went to Bangkok on March 3 on a tourist visa, valid for 14 days. They told me they would pay the fine for overstay if the processing takes more time. They offered a job at   as a supervisor with a monthly salary of ?2 lakh. After two weeks, they sent me the hard copy of the Canada visa and approval letter and asked me to pay the money the same day failing which the visa would be cancelled. I then transferred ?3 lakh in two separate instalments. They told me my flight has been arranged on March 25 to Canada. However, nothing happened. On March 30, a parcel with my name was dropped at the reception of the Bangkok hotel where I was staying. I opened it to find my passport, but the pages were missing. I was shocked and devastated, and came back to India.”
 
 In another case, 27-year-old Manisha Sahu, a resident of  , alleged in her complaint, “I was looking for Canada visa, so got details on Facebook about Globe company. They promised me that they would take $300 and within 30 days, will give the offer letter with visa and air tickets. I deposited ?10,000, ?9,560 and ?25,954 as courier insurance charge and later ?39,081for not writing the English language test. But I did not get a visa.”
 
 In the third case,  , a resident of   in  , said in his complaint, “I applied for a job online on March 2 and received confirmation through email on March 13. They asked me to pay the fee and ?33,000 for visa. After I paid the amount, they asked me to pay $1000 (?66,000) as proof of funds. I paid that sum too, but they then asked me to fill up an anti-terrorist form for which I had to pay $2150. I did. Finally, I realised I was cheated.”
 
