KOLKATA: In a first in Bengal, a state university plans to set foot outside the country to start offshore courses in foreign universities.   (JU) is tying up with four topnotch universities in China and other institutes in Russia, Poland and Hungary to offer self-financing courses on the university campuses based on the foreign shore, exclusively for students of those countries.

 
 Much on the lines of setting up foreign campuses which offer degrees, the offshore courses will give   a chance to offer programmes curated by them, keeping an eye on the local demand in the respective countries. It will allow movement of the faculty across the border to deliver coursework.
 
 The teachers would develop a collaborative programme with the faculty members abroad and offer diploma or degree. Most of the offshore courses offer credit points as well as noncredit earning ones. This will leave a huge footprint of JU in the foreign shores and   of  . The individual courses can be short term or long term offering minor or certificate programmes.
 
 “We can offer offshore courses looking at the sustainable development common for both the countries. It will enable JU to be an effective Indian partner in the internationalisation of higher education and provide opportunity for generation of additional resources for the university, a part of which, has to be shared with the host foreign institute. However, we do not plan to offer any new self-financing courses for Indian students in JU campuses in Kolkata, neither do we have plans to set up offshore campuses,” said Jadavpur University vicechancellor Suranjan Das.
 
 Das said that four universities from China approached him at the Chinese Higher Education Expo 2018 on Thursday. “I will meet the Russian Consul General on Friday with proposals to run similar courses with universities in their country. JU will hold a seminar with a conglomerate of Polish universities in September,” Das added.
 
 The proposal to start offshore courses will be placed by Das in the executive council meeting. “This will give JU a better global exposure and help us climb up on the global rankings,” Das pointed out.
 
