Haldia/Kolkata: Mamata Banerjee may well have a shot in the arm on the industrial front ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election. The state government is in the final stage to hand over 90 acres land to   (P), now owned by   Group of Purnendu Chatterjee, which would trigger an investment of over Rs 4,000 crore in the next few years. The investment can be escalated to even Rs 10,000 crore over a period of time. 

 On the sidelines of ‘MCCI Destination Haldia Forum 2018’, state transport minister Subhendu Adhikary told TOI that TCG wanted 90 acres for the expansion of Mitsubishi plant which now is almost ready. “We are now in a position to hand over the land. TCG has already submitted a detailed project report (DPR) for the expansion. The total investment could be Rs 4,000 crore, which may go up further,” he added. 
 
 TCG chairman Purnendu Chatterjee had promised to pump in a major investment in MCPI during the CM’s UK trip last year. A TCG official said after getting the land the group would apply for environmental clearance and would look for an appropriate technology for the project. 
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had requested Chatterjee to invest further in MCPI plant and he had agreed to do that. State finance and industries minister Amit Mitra had earlier said that MCPI does not have a downstream ecosystem like Haldia Petrochemicals (HPL) for which a continuous polymerisation (CP) is needed. 
 
 “We need a continuous polymerisation (CP) unit at MCPI. This will have a huge multiplier effect. Now, the entire production of MCPI went to Surat in Gujarat, as there is no buyer here,” a top state government official added. 
 
 Japanese giant Mitsubishi had sold   to TCG at a time the company went to the Board for Industrial & Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) following a complete erosion of networth. The firm’s accumulated losses were close to Rs 4,000 crore during that period. However, after the change of hands, the ailing polymer unit — with a capacity of 1.2 million tonne — is on the way to recovery.
 
 It is learnt that TCG will set up a CP unit and a spinning unit. as a forward integration of MCPI. “From spinning, we shall get fabrics, which can be used in small textile units here,” a state official elaborated. 
 
 According to him, this investment has the potential to create five lakh jobs. Besides, MCPI expansion Adhikary later said that it has got eight more proposals with a combined investment of Rs 2,000-3,000 crore. “For these projects, we need an additional 119 acres of land, which we can provide,” he added. 
 
 
