CHANDIGARH: The special court of   has upheld the conviction of two persons who were proved guilty in Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) conductor recruitment scam for impersonation and cheating. Upholding the lower court conviction, the CBI court stated in the judgement that “increasing trend of such type of offences are not only a serious threat to establishment, but also a mockery of law”. 

 The judgement further reads, “Impersonation at such level to get a government job is a big challenge for the system as the entry of criminal-minded persons into the public sector makes the system hollow and worthless. The genuine and meritorious candidates become the ultimate sufferers. Such convicted persons are required to be dealt with harshly as a deterrence, so that people are afraid to be involved in such type of crimes in future.”
 
 The Chandigarh district court had awarded imprisonment of three years to two persons convicted in CTU conductor recruitment scam for impersonation and cheating. The court of chief judicial magistrate had convicted them under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 466 (forgery of record of court or of public register, etc.),467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) and 471 (using as genuine a forged [document or electronic record]) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The court had also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on each of them. Residents of Bihar Newton and Pawan Kumar were convicted to which they had challenged in the appellate court of CBI.
 
 Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU), Chandigarh, had issued advertisement for recruitment of bus conductors in various newspapers on 16.01.2010 and 18.05.2010. To maintain secrecy/transparency of selection procedure, CTU had decided to engage  , Chandigarh, to hold the written examination and other miscellaneous works related to the said recruitment on outsourced basis.
 
 On October 3, 2010, the CBI booked Newton and Pawan in this case. CBI had taken over the CTU bus conductors’ recruitment probe on September 2 and a case under sections 419, 420, 468, 471, 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the persons who impersonated original candidates and appeared for the written test of the recruitment process at different centres in the city. Most of the arrested candidates had paid the agents Rs 60,000 to Rs 3 lakh. The team probing the recruitment racket of conductors for CTU arrested 13 persons on charges of impersonation, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. Newton was found writing the said examination impersonating himself as the actual candidate Pawan with roll number 1125010136. CBI team arrested both of them. After the arguments, both were convicted.
 
 
