Excerpts:

 
 
 
 True, the likes of SM Krishna and   have held this position.   was the BJP’s campaign committee chairman before becoming prime ministerial candidate in 2014. Nevertheless, I’m not in the race for the chief minister’s post. Siddaramaiah is our CM candidate and we’re fighting the elections under his leadership. As for me becoming CM, the party will take an appropriate decision at the appropriate time. I’m in no in a hurry to be the CM.
 
 
 
 People are intelligent enough to read into these raids. I was tortured, harassed and humiliated, but they couldn’t gain anything beyond that. I respect the law and have nothing against I-T officials as they were only following instructions.
 
 
 
 There are many richer than me. The difference is that they show their companies to explain assets and liabilities, while I show it as an individual. I keep it straight and open, unlike others. How one should declare assets and liability is debatable. As for the growth in value of assets, it’s because of the rise in land prices. When I bought the land, the price was Rs 200 per sqft; it has gone up to Rs 2,000 per sqft.
 
 
 
 Congress will get an absolute majority with 132 seats.
 
 
 
 Unlike BJP, we have ensured even distribution of candidates across constituencies. We studied factors such as anti-incumbency before finalizing candidates. We may have compromised in only 8-10 seats for social justice. When I say we’ll win 132, it’s the minimum. It’ll improve and we’ll get a clear picture in a week’s time when campaigning picks up.
 
 
 
 Developments show the BJP lacks leadership. A case in point IS how they messed up things in Varuna. Yeddyurappa’s son held a housewarming ceremony and puja after his party asked him to be the candidate there. But it ended in chaos.
 
 
 
 The people of Badami wanted him to contest from there. It wasn’t his choice. The people of North Karnataka wanted him to represent them as he has done a lot for them in terms of irrigation and agriculture.
 
 
 
 No way. It’s his pocketborough where he knows every person by name. He’ll easily win. Fear of defeat wasn’t the reason why he chose to contest from two seats.
 
 
 
 Nothing wrong in it. People of some constituency want it this way and they urge leaders to ensure their legacy lives on. Siddaramiah has just responded to the call of his constituents.
 
 Your responsibility is to draw up a winning strategy in your capacity as the chairman of the campaign committee.
 
 
 
 The selection of candidates was a collective decision. As the campaign committee chairman, I am expected to be with the candidates during their campaign. They request me to address rallies and I have to oblige them.
 
