CHANDIGARH: The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research ( ) will soon be able to acquire land for the extension of institute in  , just 4.5 kilometers away, as a part of its extension plan if the proposal materializes. 

 Talks are going on between the ministry of home affairs and Union ministry of health and family welfare. However, sources informed that a subsidized cost will soon be agreed upon. But, officials in the ministry of health have stated that the matter is still under consideration.
 
 The talks for the Sarangpur land have been going on since past two years. Moreover, 50 acres of land has been identified but as per PGI cost of Rs 1,100 crore is too much to ask.
 
 Dr Jagat Ram, director PGI, said, "We have been offered this land by the   for Rs 20 crore per acre which takes the cost of land to Rs 1,100 crore. We cannot ask for such humongous budget from the health ministry. Therefore, we have requested UT administration to subsidise the rate of entire land to Rs 200 crore. The UT officials have forwarded the proposal to ministry of home affairs."
 
 What does this land mean for the PGI?
 
 The patients visiting the institute have been increasing at a fast rate. More than 7,000 patients visit the OPD everyday. The emergency beds are in use round the clock with an occupancy rate of 200%. After the extension, the trauma centre and the OPDs will be shifted to Sarangpur. A new satellite centre will also be constructed which will have cancer centre and a learning resource centre for the training and teaching programs," said the PGI director.
 
 The satellite centre of the PGI in   district of Punjabdowes not have patients and even the required doctors.
 
 "The centre has a screening OPD but it cannot be compared to the PGI. The doctors are also on a contractual basis and are not the employed with PGI," said a faculty.
 
 Meanwhile, the foundation stone of the new Advanced Neurosciences Centre shall be laid down on Thursday by the Union health minister, JP Nadda. The 300-bedded centre will cater to neurological and neurosciences disorders. It was approved by the standing finance committee of the PGI in 2016 with a budget of Rs 495.31 crore.
 
 
