"Lucknow keeps calling me back, and I don't mind that at all!" exclaimed actor  , whom we recently caught up with after he wrapped the shooting for a film in Lucknow. Madly in love with the city and the state, Vinay says, "There is no complaint whatsoever in coming to Lucknow again and again. Yes, the weather is too hot here but then the weather all over the world is quite erratic. Abhi main Lucknow mein hoon toh ab main sochu ki kaash main Shimla mein hota, jo Shimla mein hoon toh because of the cold weather I would think isse achha toh Lucknow mein hi hota. The best I can do is accept Lucknow the way it is and the weather here. Kuchh baadhayein hain Lucknow mein, along with its beauty, and I accept them all with open arms."
In Lucknow to shoot for  's 'Abhi Toh Party Shuru' this time, Vinay got a chance to explore a large part of Lucknow. "I have been coming to   for the past 15 years to stage plays and shoot for films. What I have noticed is that it is a very vibrant city, and   in itself, is the most happening state in India. I have lived in UP for a long time and have graduated from  , so I have a certain amount of affinity with this state. I like the spine that Uttar Pradesh has for who you are and how you are, this is how you are... you either take it or leave it. The history of Lucknow too is quite happening. The more you know about it the more you fall in love with it," shared Vinay.
 
  
  Vinay Pathak in Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 Telling us more about the days spent in Allahabad, he says, "I have so many memories of Allahabad. I recently went there for a college fest in which I was the chief guest. It was great fun as I was reminded of my college days when I went there and interacted with the kids. And surprisingly, not much has changed in Allahabad, in a good way. At least for me it was good that over the years, Allahabad has not changed a bit. It was complete nostalgia for me to see that all the places were exactly the same as they were when I was in college. I especially remembered the days when I used to bunk college and used to go to cinema halls. Not many people will know, but uss zamane mein Allahabad mein 22 cinema halls hua karte thay. But uss zamane mein bhi multiplex jaise cheezen thi. Ek campus mein teen cinema hall – Gautam, Sangeet and Darpan, I used to see three movies back-to-back in those halls. Ek theatre se nikle aur doosre theatre and the best part is that hall ke samne Mishra ji paan waale thay who used to buy tickets for me and keep it with himself. Morning shows mein English movies lagti thi and I used to not miss a single film. Allahabad mein mera aadha time movies dekhte-dekhte nikla hai. I have actually studied cinema in Allahabad only! My connect has always been there with UP, whether when I was in college and now, when I am shooting for films here, and I don't want ki kabhi mere UP se naata khatam ho. It is here in UP where I can talk in proper Hindi, warna Mumbai mein kahan koi itni shuddh Hindi samajh pata hai."
 Vinay recently made news as he went to Pakistan for the International Pakistani Film Festival. Sharing details about the 'memorable trip' Vinay says, "For me, cinema is a faculty of Literature. We now tell so many stories through cinema that we read or hear otherwise. In the last 30-40 years, cinema is the closest form of literature for people. Though 40 years ago, people used to read literature a lot, now it has been replaced by cinema. The movies being shot in Lucknow now will be a mirror to what Lucknow was several years from now. Coming back to the film festival in Pakistan, unhone bahut hi aadar aur izzat se mujhe bulaya tha and it was their first international film festival. Both the governments also came on the same platform and allowed us to go there. As an artist, the platform is larger for me, but not more than national interest, of course. There were films of all kinds screened there from both India and Pakistan. There was a filmmaker from Nepal too. So I got to meet some lovely people there while there in Pakistan."
 Vinay was recently quoted as saying in an interview that he is also open to working in Pakistani films. "I am open to working in Nepali cinema, Bengali cinema, any cinema. As an artist, I am open to any kind of cinema. But to give this a political colour, I don't want this to happen. The image of Pakistan is not at all what we have in mind. Wahan jab main gaya toh mujhe laga hi nahi ki main videsh mein aaya hoon. Hamare log and zubaan ek jaisi hi hai. I haven't got any offers till now to work there, but if I get a good one, I will surely work in Pakistan," says Vinay.
 Vinay, who has also done TV, and has been a part of a popular show 'Hip Hip Hurray', says he still gets offers to do TV shows. "A lot of offers still come to me for TV but woh itne achhe nahi hote ki main unpe lapak padun. Main bahut laalchi kalakar hoon, paise ke mamle mein nahi but content wise. I am very selective. I am still waiting for an exciting offer to come my way to make a comeback on TV," says he. 
 
