CHENNAI: Fifteenth   chairman   on Thursday said a progressive state like Tamil Nadu, which has contributed greatly to India’s prosperity, would certainly receive the Commission’s careful consideration. Tamil Nadu deputy chief minister   said the state lost a sum of Rs 7,000 crore due to 14th finance commission recommendations.

 Singh was giving an assurance to the 40-member AIADMK delegation, led by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, that called on him at his office in the capital. “Singh assured the delegation that the fiscal needs of each state will be individually assessed and their special characteristics will be kept in view,” said an official statement, quoting Singh. The delegation submitted a memorandum to the commission, pointing to the adverse impact that certain clauses of ToR of the Commission likely to have on Tamil Nadu. The commission was told to balance the need for fiscal transfers to less developed states, while simultaneously meeting the growing aspirations of the people of better performing state.
 
 In a letter to Singh, chief minister   said the main concern was the clause that adopted the population data of 2011 census. “This would have a debilitating impact on the shares of states like Tamil Nadu, which has controlled population growth in a sustained manner over the years. Moreover, it would also have an adverse effect on the per capita income distance criteria, if the weights based on population of 1971 census (used hitherto) are replaced by 2011 census population,” the CM said, adding that the state was repeatedly punished by successive finance commissions for achieving higher growth and per capita income.
 
 Paneerselvam took time to meet   and minister of state, Pon Radhakrishnan later to raise the concerns of the state. “Tamil Nadu is prone to natural disasters. While not having adequate funds for disaster management is one concern, it ends up getting meagre funds from the Centre for the loss and avail its own resources to compensate. We have taken up these issues with commission,” Panneerselvam told reporters. 
 
 
