Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court has issued notice to the state and Central governments on a PIL seeking total prohibition in Rajasthan.

 The division bench of justice KS Jhaveri and V K Vyas issued notice to the state chief secretary, Union health secretary, pollution control board, Ganganagar Sugar Mills Ltd, Excise commissioner on a PIL by Rajasthan Bar Federation secretary Samir Jain.
 
 He said due to alcohol related incidents one life is lost in every 96 minutes. One out of 20 persons is consuming liquor and over exploitation of water by the distilleries have resulted in the creation of dark zones.
 
 The constitution on the one hand asks the government to discourage alcohol consumption and move towards an alcohol-free society but the state and central governments have converted into manes to revenue generation source.
 
 The government owned Ganganagar Sugar mills also produce liquor. The petition said Gujarat had become dry state in 1960 and Bihar was declared a dry state 2016. Former MLA Gurcharan Singh Chabra sacrificed his life fighting for prohibition. The apex court and various high courts also ruled against promotion of alcoholism banning sale of liquor at public places but most of the state governments have not complied with its orders. 
 
 The petition demanded total prohibition and demanded penalty on the distilleries for exploiting ground water. The matter would be heard again on May 28.
 
 ‘File report on toilets in schools’
 
 Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court asked for a report from the education department on the condition of toilets in schools.
 
 The division bench of of Justice K S Jhaveri and V K Vyas called for the report during the hearing of a PIL by Radha Shekhawat.
 
 The petitioner said the condition of the toilets in government schools is pathetic and, in many schools, separate toilets are not there for boys and girls. Most often the children themselves were asked clean the toilets, the petitioner said.
 
 The court asked the education department to file condition of toilets in school, separate for boys and girls, the system of maintenance of these toilets and the provision of water for the toilets and for drinking water purposes for children. The report had to be filed within six weeks.
 
 Sewerage treatment plant at Dravyavati
 
 Rajasthan High Court has rejected the demand for seeking shifting of the sewerage treatment plant at Shipra Path on the Dravyawati river front. 
 
 The division bench of justice M N Bhandari and DC Somnai dismissed the petition by the Shipra Vihar Resident society after the government said 85% of the work on the STP has been completed and assured that there would be no foul smell or health hazard to the residents due to the STP. The government said several STPs are being set up on the river front to treat the sewage and the water would be discharged in the river for round the year water.
 
 The court dismissed the petition with the liberty that the residents could approach the court if any of these conditions were violated.
 
 
