Chennai: Jayashree Mitra was in for a surprise on Sunday morning when she spotted the rare pied harrier, a winter migrant from Central Asia, in the Siruthavoor reserved forests on the Old Mahabalipuram road. 

 The avid   watcher was one of the participants in the 11th edition of the annual Chennai   organised by the Madras Naturalists’ Society. MNS president K V Sudhakar said about 80 people registered for the Chennai event and were divided into 20 teams.
 
 Sunjoy Monga, who organised the first bird race in the country in Mumbai in 2005, said, “We designed the bird race in India to suit our conditions. In some countries, the race is organised for a full 24 hours but we decided to hold it between 6am and 6pm.”
 
 The participants were divided into teams of four with each team having an expert bird watcher along with three amateurs. The location and the number of birds seen in a particular area had to be recorded in a booklet given to the teams.
 
 The bird sighting areas were divided into wetlands and wooded areas. Pallikaranai marshland, Vedanthangal bird sanctuary, Perumbakkam wetland and Kelambakkam creek were the wetlands, while Guindy National Park, Theosophical Society, IIT-M campus, Nanmangalam and Siruthavoor reserved forests were the wooded areas.
 
 Fifteen-year-old N Mahathi, who is a regular participant in the last three years, said a number of birds which used to be common in the city were hard to find during the race on Sunday. 
 
 The team led by Mitra recorded the maximum number of species – 108 in all. “Our team started the race at Vedanthangal from 6am. For that, we left the city around 4.30am. Many waterbodies on the OMR have been replaced by concrete high rise buildings. But the city still has some green cover where one can see these winged visitors,” she said.
 
 Some of the rare birds recorded during the event included the pied harrier in the Siruthavoor reserved forests, common babbler in Nanmangalam, ruddy breasted crake and lesser whistling duck in Perumbakkam marshland and forest wagtail, which is a migrant from the Himalayas, at the Theosophical Society.
 
 
