Soon after returning from Bilaspur where he played for the Vijay Hazare Trophy,   left for South Africa to make a comeback to the national team in the  . Raina last played for India in January 2017, against England. As the cricketer spent some time with his family at his Delhi home before leaving for South Africa, he decided to take some time out for a quick chat with us and said, “I am all set to change the perception of all those who thought I have drifted away from  , or those who dismissed me at a time when I was training in Holland. People will change their mind now.” Raina told us that the phase when he was not playing for the Indian team wasn’t an easy one, but his wife Priyanka Raina supported him and it was her suggestion that he should move to Holland for training.
 
  
  
 
 "Even when I was injured, I never stopped working hard. I went to Holland and trained for eight weeks, as training in India would have been difficult. There is a lot of pressure here – of appearances, friends’ invitations, other commitments – so it was Priyanka who persuaded me to go to Holland and spend eight weeks there. And those eight weeks transformed me. My wife may not understand cricket very well, but she wants to me score 100 or 150. She would also fight with me initially when I would not score well on the field (laughs), but she knew what I needed most at that point of time. It was my belief and passion in the game that kept me going. That phase made me a wiser person. In our field, you are dismissed too easily, but you know where you are lacking and you can work hard on that. People change their perception as soon as you score a 100," Raina said.
 
 
 
 Raina recently spent a lot of time with Shivam Mavi and Manjot Kalra - who were part of the   and won the Under-19 World Cup trophy - and was all praises for them on social media. He said that the reason why he’s always so encouraging of young players is because "nobody encouraged us when we were playing at that stage. What we missed, this generation should get." 
 
 Raina added, "The boys really played well and the credit goes to the coach of the team   and captain Prithvi Shaw. At this stage, it really makes a difference if you have had coaches and administrators who can lead you. I have been meeting these boys - Shivam Mavi and Manjot Kalra from Delhi - and what I always tell them is that one should always live in the present. All these guys - like many of us - have come from middle class families, and are now celebrities. Jab cricket se shohrat milti hai, paisa milta hai, achha lagta hai, par uske saath responsibility bhi aati hai. It will be a challenge for them to be consistent in their performance. Now, there is so much pressure on players that every second player is good enough to fill in your shoes, so you have to perform in every match. Everyone is working hard and cricket is also a game of luck - that’s what I believe."
 
 
 
 When we asked Raina about the cricketers he idolizes or is inspired by, the first name he came up with was Rahul Dravid. "I have always idolized Rahul Dravid. He was my first captain and he has always been an elder brother to me. Hum log thay UP waale desi ekdum. Pata nahi tha kaise khana hai, cutlery kaise use karni hai. Bass yeh pata tha ki ball ko maarna kaise hai. Unse milne ke baad ek saleeka aaya, ek tehzeeb aayi. Dravid showed the way to lead life and the attitude that a player should have. Rahul bhai supported me a lot. I remember that at one of the matches where I couldn’t score any runs, I was sitting with Irfan (Pathan) and he was eating and I told him ‘pata nahi kal ka match khelenge ya nahi.’ Rahul bhai told us that it was the time when we should show our strength in fielding. I think that day I really performed well in the later half of the game. Do-teen players out karein maine. Agar koi Rahul bhai ki tarah motivate kare toh hum toh aise hai ki apni jaan bhi de de,” Raina said. As a young boy, Raina was always a fan of Sachin Tendulkar and the cricketer still remembers his first meeting with the Master Blaster in Mumbai. He told us that it was when Sachin gave Raina an award and said, “Changla khela tu!"
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Raina’s wife might not really be interested in cricket, but he told us that Priyanka has encouraged him for many things in life. After the birth of their daughter, the two started the Gracia Raina Foundation to help underprivileged mothers across the nation. “While I am busy playing or training, she is the one who is working hard to help underprivileged mothers. As cricketers, we do associate with a lot of causes, but I really wanted to do something concrete and Priyanka came up with the idea of the foundation,” Raina said. Priyanka added that it is not just the two but even their one-and-a-half-year-old daughter Gracia has been an important part of what they are doing. Raina’s wife also told us that their daughter has also started recognizing her father on TV while he is playing. “She just shouts ‘papa, papa!’ and cheers for everyone. She doesn’t mind cheering for the other team too,” Priyanka told us, who mostly accompanies Raina on his tournaments, when she is not busy with her NGO work. On the debate if wives and girlfriends should be accompanying players during tours, she said, “I find it very unfair to judge the situation, as your family is the biggest support system. And it is harsh for wives as well, being in that spot where people are judging your presence is very bad. When other people go on business trips and their wives accompany them, no one questions them, then why are things different for cricketers? When their spouses are representing the country, wives would naturally wish that they should give their best. People should not be so judgmental about it.”
 For Raina, the moment he’s awaiting the most is for his daughter to watch him play India vs Pakistan. “Woh ek alag feeling hogi. These are the moments to have your special ones around,” Raina said.
 
 
  
 
