KARWAR: Frequent accidents of   from   (KGS) to other parts of the country have brought the security concerns to the fore. The   and the narrow road between   and   are causing accidents, it is said.

 In the last three months, two accidents — the latest being on January 17 — were reported in Karwar-Kaiga range. Trolleys with over 100 wheels suffer a slip while negotiating steep curves, which may also leave them upside down. Fortunately, no injury or causality is reported because of the accidents. 
 
 The 70km stretch between Kaiga and Karwar, being a hilly terrain, passes through forest patches and narrow roads having hairpin curves. Envisaging the problem posed by the stretch long ago, the authorities of   (NPCIL) conducted a survey in early ’90s. 
 
 To widen the road, land acquisition became imminent and the project was then estimated at Rs 42 crore. They had also planned to avoid human inhabitation and villages along the stretch as radioactive material is transported through the road. But the project was shelved as probable land losers demanded that they be given jobs in KGS on par with the ones whose land had been acquired for the Kaiga project.
 
 Now, the Union government has again kindled hope among people of the region by deciding to upgrade Karwar-Kaiga-Haveri- Gadad-Gajendragad-Koppal road to a national highway which would benefit the people of five districts that it passes through. This would also help NPCIL authorities to facilitate the vehicles directly enter Kaiga at Idagundi near Yellapur — by avoiding the Karwar city which would reduce the distance by about 120km — to transport the spent fuel and uranium. Apart from this, transportation of goods from Karwar port to the rest of   would become easier and shorten the travel distance, saving fuel and time.
 
 Locals have also demanded that Karwar-Kaiga-Koppal road be upgraded as it opens up newer business opportunities in the region. 
 
 NPCIL officials said that the department is in touch with the surface transport ministry for the upgradation of the road to avoid accidents in future. It is expected that the Union government would allocate funds in the upcoming budget to upgrade the Karwar-Kaiga-Koppal highway, an NPCIL official said.
 
 
