Composer-singer and also a bureaucrat,   is busy making preparations for   at her residence in  . The mother of two, who has been juggling music and her job, successfully, says Holi is a festival she waits for the whole year round. "Although I don't play much with colours now, I love the festival as everything is so colourful and bright on Holi," says Anupama, adding, "Holi for me signifies happiness! The weather is perfect at this time of the year and there’s so much colour everywhere around you. Even the gardens are in full bloom so it’s as if nature is also celebrating with a burst of colours. There’s just so much happiness in the air during Holi."
Sharing her Holi plans with us Anupama says, "We have a large family so Holi has always been a lot of fun for me since I was a kid. All us sisters get together and celebrate the festival. There’s a whole lot of masti and singing and dancing and of course eating loads of good food at home for days together," says Anupama. 
 
  
  Anupama Raag in the mood for Holi (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui) 
 
 Remembering the fun she used to have on the festival as a kid, Anupama tells us, "I used to have maximum fun with Anita, a friend of mine. We would mix colours in a drum full of water and keep jumping in it. Hum aapas mein hi rang khel lete thay. The two of us would also go to our neighbours’ houses in the colony to play colours with other kids. It used to be so much fun."
 A composer to reckon with in 
 Bollywood now, Anupama has even more reason to celebrate this Holi. Her song 'Azaad Kar' from  's soon-to-release 'Daas Dev' is already topping the music charts. Sung by  , the music of the song has been composed by Anupama. "It's a situational song which sums up the movie. I am so happy that people are already loving the song," says Anupama, who composed the song within hours after being given the brief by Mishra, on a flight back from Mumbai. "When you’re in the right frame of mind, it doesn't take long to create something," she says. 
 Having sung and composed with the likes of Raahat Fateh Ali Khan, Mika and Honey Singh and having sung for Madhuri Dixit in ' ' and   in 'Bin Bulaye Barati', Anupama has also sung the popular 'Saaware' the video of which featured former Miss India Vartika Singh and Kunal Kemmu. 
 
