Ludhiana: Amid tight security arrangements ahead of Republic Day, three goons allegedly carjacked a trader from outside his house in New Model Town on Wednesday night. After kidnapping Ashok Gumbar, 48, at gunpoint, the trio took him around the city and robbed him of Rs 45,000, two credit cards and an i-Phone, police quoting complainant said. 

 “I run a shoe shop on Gill Road. I closed my shop around 8.30pm and reached home half an hour later. Outside my house, three men were standing near a motorcycle. I rolled down my car window after one of them knocked. Before I could understand anything, the armed man punched on my face and opened fire. The bullet brushed past me and hit my house wall,” Gumbar said in his police complaint
 
 Soon thereafter, his other accomplice joined him. “The first goon took the car wheel and the other sat at the rear seat. They pushed me to the front passenger seat, tied me with the seat belt and pointed a gun at my head. The third miscreant followed us on his bike. After gagging me with a jacket, they asked me to raise the alarm. They then took away Rs 45,000, two credit cards and an i-Phone from my pockets,” Gumbar added. 
 
 After driving around the city, the duo refuelled the car using Gumbar’s credit card. “The petrol pump staff did not suspect anything as it was dark. After a few kilometres, they withdrew Rs 13,000 from an ATM with my credit cards,” the trader said.
 
 They drove Gumbar through the heart of the city for over an hour. “They pushed me out of the car at a flyover near Shivpuri Chowk,” he added.
 
 A few minutes after, the goons called up Gumbar’s family from his cell-phone and told them that his car had been abandoned near Samrala Chowk. 
 
 Meanwhile, Gumbar hired an auto and reached home. 
 
 Cops meanwhile said the claims of complainant were being cross checked and verified. “It’s hard to believe that the accused could roam around in the city while keeping him in captivity, that too when checkpoints have been set up ahead of Republic day,” said a police official, adding that all possible angles including personal enmity are being looked into. 
 
 Division 5 SHO inspector Jatinder Singh meanwhile said the CCTV cameras installed outside the trader’s house have captured the incident. “One of the miscreants was turbaned. The three had covered their faces with shawls. We suspect the involvement of a person known to the family into the incident,” he said 
 
 A case of kidnapping and robbery has been registered. 
 
 
