BATHINDA: Cops are completely flummoxed by chance recovery of 258 passports, some with valid visas and others issued freshly, from   village under   police station in Haryana’s   district, adjoining Bathinda dictrict of  .

 The passports, scattered along a road in Chakeria village, were discovered on Saturday evening by locals, who then informed cops.
 
 
 All the passports had Punjab addresses and cops in both the states are investigating how these ended up in the   village. “The passports were dispatched for Ludhiana. We are investigating how these passports reached Chakeria village. On counting, we found 258 passports had been collected from the village and nearly 20 of these had valid visas for various countries, including the   region,” Kalanwali police station SHO Om Parkash told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 At present, there is no suspicion about authenticity of these passports and the Haryana police is trying to find a way to send them to their owners.
 
 “We are contacting postal authorities so that these may be sent to their owners. We will also approach the Chandigarh regional passport office on Monday to seek more details about these passports,” the SHO added.
 
 The Bathinda police will send a team to verify whether the passports recovered on Saturday evening are the ones that had gone missing in transit in January this year.
 
 On January 28, some 254 passports, sent from the Chandigarh regional passport office to be delivered to in Bathinda had gone missing and are yet to be recovered.
 
 “We have got some inquiries as to whether these passports are the ones which had gone missing before reaching Bathinda,” the   said.
 
 “We have got to know about recovery of 258 passports under jurisdiction of adjoining Kalanwali police station. We are sending a team of police officers to verify as these are same gone missing before reaching Bathinda post office. Anything could be said only after verifying the facts. The police on January 29 had registered case of missing of passports,” Bathinda SSP Naveen Singla said.
 
