PUNE: As many as 55.28 lakh files were cleared in the   in the past nine months under the ‘zero pendency’ model.

 Sharing this information with TOI, Pune divisional commissioner   said on Wednesday that the pending 1.69 lakh files will be cleared by February-end.
 
 In May last year, Dalvi had set a ‘zero pendency’ target for the division, which includes Pune, Satara, Sangli, Solapur and Kolhapur districts.
 
 Of the 1.68 crore files scrutinized during the period, 98.53 lakh were preserved while 69.76 lakh were destroyed as per the norms, Dalvi said. As many as 7,222 offices and 23,092 workers were part of this initiative, which commenced on May 1, last year.
 
 “Before May, the pendency was 6.98 lakh files. Another 49.99 lakh files were added during the six months thereafter. We cleared 55.28 lakh files in the last nine months, bringing down the pendency to 1.69 lakh, which will be cleared by the end of this month,” Dalvi said.
 
 The government is also gearing up to issue a GR making it mandatory for all the departments to clear their files as per the guidelines to achieve zero pendency. “Earlier, these files used to just lie on the officers’ table and citizens had to keep making rounds to the offices to get them cleared. This has changed with this zero pendency model,” Dalvi said, adding that there is a time frame for all the officials to clear the files as per the norms.
 
 Dalvi said once a case reaches any department, the person concerned is told immediately if it cannot be resolved. “If it has to be moved to other departments, it is done within a week. While at the taluka level a time frame of one month is given, it is two months for sthe sub-divisional officer, three months for the district and two months for the zilla parishad. If the same is not done, action can be initiated against the official concerned,” Dalvi added. The entire system is tracked through a software readied by the   and a weekly report is sought from every office in the district and state. 
 
 
