GURGAON: The   is well aware about what the kid’s are reading or the trend among them. 

 In order that they don’t fall prey to anything bad, the board has got its thinking cap on. The   has come out with a unique   programme ‘Safe School, Safe Child campaign’ for students aimed at ensuring how they can make schools safer.
 
 In Gurgaon, it has been decided that the workshop will be held soon. For some other districts of the state the same workshop has already taken place. Workshop will include officers of the district   department, district collector, sub-divisional officer, principals, department of child welfare, etc. Apart from these, parents will also be called from schools. The workshop will be mandatory for private and government schools. Ram Kumar, district education officer said, “The main objective is to make children sensitive about their rights and safety. Under this programme, students will be taught their rights, while the school teachers and the head will be working on the safety of the children.” In the first phase, school principals will be trained in ‘Safe School, Safe Child campaign’. Through a one-day workshop, they will be given detailed information about the plan. After this, the principal will make educators and students aware.
 
 
  
 In the workshop, students will be trained to make sensitive about blue whale games and other such games. G Mohanty, media advisor National Commission for Protection of Child Rights said, “We are appealing to primary schools to watch the internet activity of students and make them aware about it.” Apart from this, training will also be given to the children for their children’s safety and their awareness of their safety. The rules and guidelines for the protection of children will also be explained in detail. “Only campaign will not be useful if there is no action plan on ground level. We have received many guidelines and directions from government and CBSE for better improvement for child safety at school but unfortunately there is no visible action plan on this front,” said Dr Shweta Sharma, member of district child safety committee.
 
 
