KOLKATA: Students heaved a sigh of relief with the Indian School Certificate Examination (ICSE) Council and CBSE announcing the exam schedule for 2018. While some have started planning to prepare a time table to follow before exams kick start from February-end, others are still sceptical.

 While laying down timetable, CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon stated that the schedule wasbased on declaration of the dates by the Chief Election Commissioner of India for the states due to assembly elections.
 
 “It’s a great relief. This year the schedule was announced very late. I hope from next year they announce the
 
 schedule in advance that will benefit my juniors. I am okay with minor alterations of the time-table but would worry if there’s a major schedule change due to the elections,” said Soumyajit Sarkar, class XII student of Rammohan Mission School.
 
 Guardians had, however, started preparing their children on a regular basis in absence of the schedule. The students were asked to focus on mock tests and thoroughly study the text books. Aditi Das, mother of  , an ICSE candidate from  , said, “My son had maintained a regular routine based on which he had studied. Also his tutors had regularly taken mock tests at the end of chapters. So, my son never missed out on preparations.”
 
 Indranil Kar of class XII from   will appear in ISC. Kar was worried over the schedule as he wanted to know the gap between examinations. “I was eagerly waiting for the timetable so that I could chalk out a plan on how much I need to revise or study,” he said.
 
 Arathoon had earlier said that the time-table would be published only after election commission decides on the dates of   elections. The Council had a tough time rescheduling the exam dates in 2017 when the EC decided to hold polls in five states of Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Manipur, Punjab and Uttarakhand that clashed with the earlier exam schedule. The revised time-table made ICSE and ISC exams spread over more than 40 days that year.
 
 Principal of Central Modern School in Baranagar, Nabarun De, pointed out that the exam schedule will make students happy. “Those candidates who are aiming to appear in competitive examinations will get almost a month to prepare after the ISC exam is over,” said De.
 
 Amardeep Rai, a student of Central Modern School, added, “I am elated with the schedule because it has been well spread over a few days with adequate time in between to study.”
  
  
 
