GREATER NOIDA:   being taught in universities and colleges need to undergo changes as technology is developing by the day,   chairman   said on Tuesday.

 Stressing the need for revision on a regular basis, Sahasrabudhe said teachers, too, needed to be trained and exposed to the changes that are taking place in the field of technology. 
 
 He said educational institutes should be opened for a noble cause and those that had been opened with an intention to make profits were closing down one by one.
 
 Sahasrabudhe was addressing representatives of 55 educational institutions at   during the inauguration of “Deep Learning and Artificial Intelligence Skilling and Research”. He also urged the representatives to participate in a three-week induction programme of the AICTE to improve teacher-student connect.
 
 “Technology is developing and the rate of change may be higher in engineering courses. Even within engineering, it will be faster in computer science and electronics rather than mechanical and civil. The automobile industry, too, is rapidly changing. This has to be brought into our curriculum. Once revision on a regular basis begins, teachers, too, need to be trained,” he told TOI.
 
 Sahasrabudhe advised all the institutes to start a course named   (mathematics, operational research, statistics and economics), which is aimed at improving artificial intelligence and deep learning for students from remote educational institutions.
 
 “Many students in remote areas do not have these facilities. They may not be part of these institutions associated with the project, but why should they miss out on this opportunity?” he asked.
 
 Sahasrabudhe said the field of artificial intelligence and deep learning had “tremendous opportunities” and suggested that an application be designed in this regard.
 
 Emphasising on the relevance of a three-week induction programme for first-year students introduced by the AICTE, Sahasrabudhe said institutes should try to avoid dull-fledge classes in the first three weeks of a course and instead allow the students to get familiar with the surroundings.
 
 “A connect between the students and teachers is necessary and it is the lack of it that is leading to agitation at institutes. Authorities hardly engage in talks with the students and vice-versa,” he said.
 
 On the programme, Sahasrabudhe said a batch of 20-25 first-year students should be associated with one faculty member and activities like yoga, discussions, dance, drama, film screenings, etc, should be introduced.
 
 
