NAGPUR: The under-construction five-arm Pardi flyover has become an accident prone spot. The roads along the flyover construction site on the busy patches from Gomti Hotel Square to   is full of craters. Despite repeated complaints by the residents and motorists, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) was not repairing the patch. This negligence causes immense hardships for motorists and makes this stretch unsafe for them to negotiate.

 Angry over NHAI’s casual approach,   activists on Tuesday staged a demonstration on the patch to draw the authority’s attention. 
 
 Youth Congress president Bunty Shelke and president of East Youth Congress unit Akshay Ghatole led the protest. The activists filled a portion of the road with water and later released paper boats to lodge their protest over poor condition of the road. 
 
 As per terms and condition of the agreement, it was the responsibility of the private firm appointed — City-based SMS Infrastructure Limited, in joint association with Mumbai-based Gannon Dunkerley & Company to not only ensure pothole free roads alongside the flyover work but also to appoint traffic wardens. None of the conditions were fulfilled. 
 
 According to residents of the locality, after a public outcry in the past, some repair was done between   and   market, but it turned out to be eyewash and the condition of road has now gone from bad to worse. The numbers of accidents have gone up manifold.
 
 Motorists, who use this patch, told TOI that for the NMC, it seems that this part of the city does not come under its jurisdiction. “Already the one-km patch is full of craters and with defunct street lights the patch is a complete death trap,” said  , a resident.
 
 Ghatole said it seems that the NHAI has no respect for union transport minister   as Nagpur is his hometown. Transporters too had urged the government to improve the condition of the road and initiate action against the officers who were responsible for the poor condition of the road.
 
 The roads must be maintained till the flyover works are completed otherwise it will cause inconvenience to people and lead to accidents,” admitted a constable deployed at Gomti Hotel Square. He claimed that he had informed his superiors about the deplorable condition of the roads, but in vain. 
 
 The other road patch from Gomti Hotel Chowk to Pardi and beyond too is in bad shape. This leads to not only traffic chaos, but also accidents.
 
 
