PATNA: The Patna district administration has planned a 588km-long   on January 21 against dowry and child marriage compared to 400km-long route in support of liquor ban the same day last year. The administration expects over 18 lakh people to participate in the human chain in the district. 

 After a meeting with officials of Patna,  , Buxar, Rohtas, Bhojpur and Kaimur districts on Monday, Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor said the human chain in the state capital would originate from gate number 1, 5, 7 and 10 of Gandhi Maidan and branch out in four directions. Around 4,500 people are expected to assemble at Gandhi Maidan, he said.
 
 The chain from gate number 1 of Gandhi Maidan will pass through Fraser Road, Dak Bungalow crossing and Bailey Road before reaching Koilwar bridge via Danapur Cantanmnet. The one from gate no 5 will head off to   through Digha road. The chain from gate number 7 will pass through Ashok Rajpath, Deedarganj, Fatuha, Bhakhtiyarpur, Barh to Mokama while the fourth chain from gate number 10 will go to Vaishali through Exhibition Road flyover, Kankarbagh, Zero Mile and Gandhi Setu.
 
 All blocks in Patna district have been divided into two zones while Patna town area will have five zones. 
 
 Kishor said public transport on the roads used for human chain formation would be prohibited from 9am till the programme is over. However, if the road has a divider, one side would remain open for public movement. The rehearsal for the event in Patna district would be conducted on January 19.
 
 Around 15 lakh people are likely to participate in the event in Nalanda district where the human chain is proposed to be 421km-long, compared to 321km last year. The Bhojpur district expects nearly 14 lakh people to form the human chain covering 364km, as compared to 316km last year. Around 8 lakh people in Buxar are likely to take part in the event covering 277km as compared to 252km last year. The Rohtas administration has planned nearly 420km-long chain of 15 lakh people while the human chain passing through Kaimur will cover 312km.
 
 Govt hosps, medical facilities to remain open on Jan 21
 
 The health department on Monday has asked all government hospitals and medical facilities to remain open on January 21. All doctors and hospital staff have been ordered to be on duty. They have been asked to be on alert two hours prior to and post the human chain event. The important hospitals alerted in the city include Patna Medical College and Hospital, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, New Gardiner Road Hospital, Loknayak   Narayan Hospital and Guru Gobind Singh Hospital. The department has asked all the civil surgeons to form mobile medical teams that will be operational on the day for any emergency. A team of ASHA and   workers will be posted at regular intervals with ORS solution and basic drugs. An ambulance with a driver and EMT (emergency medical technician) has been ordered to be posted on every route across the state.
 
 
