NEW DELHI: The   of a   in   Phase-I has become a bone of contention between councillors and   officials so much so that a probe has been ordered in the case. The officials were found taking an approval from the   long after carrying out the demolition overnight allegedly after taking a bribe.

 The matter led to a heated debate in the committee as no policy exists for shifting of dhalaos.
 
 “I have moved 14 applications to get dhalaos moved from outside houses in my ward, Defence Colony, but none have been sanctioned. In this case, both the area councillor and RWA want the dhalao at its current location. However, it seems the officials colluded with the authorities of a private mall and demolished it overnight without seeking clearance,” said Abhishek Dutt, the standing committee member who raised the matter.
 
 Though the matter was listed as “permission for demolition of a dilapidated dhalao”, the pictures showed that it was in a good state.
 
 Surinder Kumar Sethia, the councillor of Subhash Nagar ward, said the dhalao was demolished in December 2017 without any due process. After his complaint, he was assured that a new one would be built as the previous one had been demolished “by mistake”.
 
 “People had complained to me that the absence of a dhalao has made their lives difficult. I was surprised to see that matter listed as permission for demolition of a dilapidated dhalao. The civic infrastructure was removed by officials under whose pressure?” asked Sethia.
 
 An inquiry by an official of the rank of additional commissioner from west zone has been ordered to probe the matter. Standing committee chairman Bhupender Gupta said, “A time-bound inquiry will be carried out to find the facts in the case. If the allegations are proven, the dhalao should be reconstructed as per the demands of the local residents.”
 
 “Such requests are entertained only due to pressure from senior politicians. The officials are just being made scapegoats,” said a senior official on anonymity.
 
 
 
