KOCHI: Paying tribute to a successful people’s green movement - the march to   the Western Ghats - in its 30th year, environmentalists and activists resolved to take their campaign to the next level to end the exploitation of the ecologically sensitive region.

 
 More than 100 activists from the Western Ghats states, barring Gujarat, gathered in Kochi to recall their experience of the 100-day march which began on November 1, 1987 from   and Kanyakumari and culminated in Goa. Social activist Medha Patkar inaugurated the two-day commemorative event organized to plan the future course of action.
 
 
 Patkar said natural resources in the country are being exploited and abused in an aggressive manner. “These resources are considered as capital for investment to gain profits for corporates, miners and industrialists. Nobody is bothered about the state of rivers,” she said. Criticizing the UPA government, Patkar said corporates and contractors lobbied with the ministry of environment and managed to alter the very purpose and the outcome of the Gadgil report. “We have to take forward the campaign we started 30 years ago to protect the Western Ghats, with innovative strategy and various forms of satyagraha,” Patkar urged young people.
 
 
 Claude Alvares from Goa said it is necessary to take the movement to the international-level. “Western Ghats is no longer a matter of concern for six states but for the whole world,” he said.
 
 
 Claude criticized expert committees constituted by the government that takes arbitrary decision without consulting local communities. “This is evident in the issue of Athirapilly power project for which the expert committee gave environment clearance three times without understanding local sentiments and ecology,” he said. Activists said the biggest impact has been on the rivers and groundwater systems which are becoming depleted. “This will be the thrust of our campaign. We will now involve political parties, leaders and people’s representatives of Western Ghats states and organize a convention in New Delhi to lend more power to the movement,” said John Peruvanthanam of the Save Western Ghats Movement, Kerala.
 
 
 He said a campaign to involve more youth in the green movement is being planned. “We started the campaign at the Maharaja’s college today and will take it to 100 colleges in the state,” he said. An official announcement launching the campaign for saving Western Ghats will be made on Sunday.
 
