Chennai: After a kidney transplant at a Chennai-based hospital in 2005, Tanzania-based Pius Z Yanda thought he could return to his research on  . But his problems didn’t end there as he realised other ailments such as cancer,   and   had found a safe haven in his body before he went in for his second   in 2016.

 Speaking at an event here on Thursday, Yanda kept the audience comprising doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, counsellors, patients and caregivers spellbound as he narrated the crisis he faced in his homeland. “Today, I am happy. I encourage many renal failure patients in my country to remain positive,” he told participants at the 25th Annual Charity and Awards Nite of Tamilnad Kidney Research Foundation(TANKER).
 
 Admitting that it wasn’t easy when doctors first told him that he had renal failure in 2005, he recalled, “My legs were swollen. I was feeling uncomfortable. Terms like high urea and creatinine seemed like Chinese to me.” When doctors told him he required renal transplant, he arranged funds and came to the Madras Medical Mission where he underwent the procedure and was discharged five weeks later.
 
 A few months later, he found that there were painless lesions on his limbs. A series of tests confirmed Kaposi’s sarcoma, a type of cancer that forms in the lining of blood and lymph vessels. “This was a side effect of the immune suppressant I was taking to keep the new kidney safe,” he said.
 
 After a series of cancer treatment methods, including chemotherapy and a change in drug regimen, Yanda badly wanted to visit his parents in 2011. That’s when the next bad news hit him. “I developed food poisoning and had heavy intestinal bleeding. The duty doctor had the option of giving me blood transfusion immediately or letting me die. He chose to transfuse blood. I was infected with HIV, but I was still alive,” he recalled.
 
 When the Madras Medical Mission confirmed HIV infection, he and his family broke down. “I knelt down and prayed,” he said. His country had good facilities to care for people with HIV/AIDS and he received anti-retroviral therapy, the drug of choice for people with HIV/AIDS.
 
 But by 2015, his condition worsened. This time, besides a severe infection in the heart, he also had a second renal failure. In 2016, he underwent the second organ transplant. “My country needs to have better awareness, prevention, early screening and specialists who can care for people with kidney diseases. I do what I can to help them,” he said.
 
 He received an award from Sundram Finance MD TT Srinivasaraghavan. “I am here today to thank the doctors and hospital staff.” On Sunday, he will be flying to Geneva to speak on climate change on behalf of a UN organisation he is chairing.
 
 TANKER Foundation gave away awards to Ahmedabad-based Dr Vivek Kute for research, Dr KV Kishore Kumar of the Banyan, Nadiad-based Dr RM Manohar for life time achievement and Jayashree Ravindran of Ability Foundation for creating awareness.
 
 
