GURUGRAM: A 30-year-old man who was crossing the Medanta   on a motorcycle died after it was hit by a speeding car on Tuesday morning. Some lights have been installed inside the   but they are functional only during the evening, so it was dark inside the underpass at the time of the  .

 According to police, Chandar Bahadur Thapa who hails from Darjeeling in West Bengal was riding pillion while his friend Shiv who hails from Nepal was driving the motorcycle when the accident happened. 
 
 Both Thapa and Shiv had moved to the city for work. Thapa worked as a cook while Shiv works in a Japanese restaurant in Manesar. The two friends were travelling to the city from Manesar when a car from the opposite side hit their motorcycle. 
 
 “On March 13, I was driving a Pulsar motorcycle with number plate HR26 BW 6618. My friend Chandar was riding pillion. We were coming back from Manesar to the city. At around 2am, we entered the   underpass at Rajiv Chowk. A car coming from the opposite side hit us directly from the front,” said Shiv. 
 
 He added that both of them were thrown off the motorcycle and fell on the ground. “My friend was injured on his head and legs. On the other hand, I sustained minor injuries. I and a passer-by took my friend to Medanta hospital,” said Shiv. Chandar succumbed to his injuries at the hospital. Shiv added that he had not been able to note the number of the car that hit the motorcycle.
 
 Sadar police station SHO   said, “Crossing the underpass in the darkness is proving to be fatal. NHAI is being asked to make a proper arrangement of lights inside the underpass. This is a serious issue.” 
 
 Meanwhile, the NHAI officials said that they had applied for a new power connection for lights inside the underpass. “A generator runs a few lights inside the underpass but it doesn’t work 24 hours. I have asked Surjit Kundu (from Gawar Construction Ltd which is looking into the utilities work) to install more lights inside the underpass in a zig-zag pattern and also, put up alternate lights in the box portion outside the underpass,” said Saurabh Singhal, NHAI engineer and team leader for the underpass project.
 
