MUMBAI: Tens and thousands of Muslim women braved the sweltering sun on Saturday afternoon and gathered at Azad Maidan to protest the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2017 or   Bill. The Bill, which has been passed in the  , among other things, criminalises instant triple talaq with provisions of three years’ jail. The protesters summarily rejected the Bill which they alleged is “anti-women”.

 Police said around 20,000 women were present at the venue, even as the   ( )’s women’s wing, which called for the protest, claimed 50,000 participated. As a result of the huge gathering, traffic movement on the road along the venue was affected for hours.
 
 As it was a silent rally, the women did not chant any slogan, but wore headbands and carried placards with the message against the Bill. Besides, no men were allowed to speak from the stage which was had only women speakers.
  
 
 Addressing the protesters, AIMPLB women’s wing spokesperson Dr   said, “A wrong image has been created that Islam subjugates women and Muslim men oppresses their wives. The number of talaqs among Muslims is fewer than among other communities in India... Muslims will not accept any interference in their Personal Laws.” Zahra slammed the Bill saying it was badly drafted. “Our religious leaders and scholars were not consulted before the Bill was drafted. The   had already nullified the instant triple talaq in August 2017, then why does the Bill criminalise something (uttering of triple talaq) which is not valid? If the man is sent to jail for three years, who will provide for the women and the children?” 
 
 She said the custody of the child is decided on the ground of the child’s welfare. “But the Bill says that the child will be in the custody of mother while the fathers cools his heels in jail. Where will the wife find means to take care of the child if the husband is in jail and she has no other source of income?”
 
 AIMPLB's executive committee member Monisa Bushra Abidi claimed that no other religion cared for women so much like Islam does as it gives rights to women in properties of parents, brother and husband. She said the Bill was a step towards bringing in Uniform Civil Code. “We will not accept the Bill. If you are so concerned about Muslim women, give them employment, remove poverty from the community but don’t interfere in the Shariat,” she said.
 
 A four-point resolution expressing opposition to the Triple Talaq Bill and any move to bring in a Uniform Civil Code was adopted at the meet by protesters raising hands in support. Later, a delegation went to Raj Bhavan and handed over the resolution to the governor. The governor’s PA received them in his absence. 
 
 
 
