Ghaziabad: A man accused of raping an eight-year-old girl was lynched by a mob outside his house near   on Friday night, before police could arrive at the scene.

 Jirendra (25), a   who was from Patna, lived with his wife in a shanty in the same neighbourhood as the girl. The police have registered two FIRs in the case — one of   against the accused and another against 12 persons who were in the mob under IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder).
 
 The girl’s family said Jitendra’s wife had asked her to accompany them to a jagran in the locality around 10pm on Friday. After spending an hour at the event, Jitendra, who was allegedly drunk, told her wife he would take the girl back to her house as her parents were looking for her. 
 
 He apparently told his wife he would not return to the jagran as he was not feeling too well after drinking.
 
 Instead of escorting the girl home, Jitendra allegedly took her to his shanty and forced himself on her, the police said. He allegedly threatened the girl with dire consequences if she disclosed anything to her parents. The fourth of five siblings, the girl is the daughter of a daily wage labourer.
 
 According to neighbours, the girl was found sobbing outside Jitendra’s shanty around midnight. She was in such shock that she could not speak for some time, they said.
 
 The police were informed, but before the cops arrived, a mob had started gathering around Jitendra’s house. The scrap dealer was pulled out of his shanty and kicked and punched by the mob.
 
 Bleeding profusely, Jitendra was taken to a government hospital in Loni, where he was declared dead on arrival. The police and local residents said there were at least 50 people in the mob. 
 
 SSP Vaibhav Krishna and senior police officers visited the locality later to take stock of the situation. The minor girl has been admitted to hospital.
 
 SP (rural)   said: “The girl’s family has lodged a complaint, on the basis of which an FIR has been registered against against Jitendra for rape and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). But he was beaten to death by the mob. Another FIR has been registered against four named and eight unidentified persons.”
 
 The lynching following allegations of rape comes a few months after a police constable was beaten up by a mob in Greater Noida for molesting a minor girl.
 
 
