THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After months of dilly dallying, the PWD has finally given technical sanction for the second phase of Karamana-Kaliyikkavila road widening project. 

 A committee that consists of chief engineers of various wings of PWD gave technical sanction to the widening of Pravachambalam-Kodinada stretch last week. However, the project is unlikely to take off without clearing hurdles pertaining to land acquisition.
 
 Sources in NH wing of PWD said that they did not get any satisfactory reply from district administration despite repeated attempts to bring clarity on rehabilitation of around 22 families from the Old Rajapatha near  .
 
 Officials of land acquisition wing of NH said legal issues pertaining to the land allotted by the cabinet to rehabilitate the people is the cause of delay. “We have approached the high court with a request to expedite the process to clear the pending case on the land,” said a district administration official.
 
 However, officials of NH wing of PWD said that district administration must go for other options as clearing legal issues will be time consuming. 
 
 “The project has been given technical sanction. Now it has been forwarded to KIIFB, the funding agency, for approval. KIIFB will be in charge of tendering the project. They will soon initiate steps for tendering of works. It is time to expedite the land acquisition process by finding an alternate land,” said NH officials.
 
 District administration officials, however, said that no alternate land is available.
 
 Around 22 families have to be displaced from the Old Rajapatha. The people who are living in puramboke land have no documents. So they were excluded from the list of people who deserved compensation. Some months ago, the state cabinet decided to give 3 cents and house under LIFE mission to each of the 22 families. However, the land allotted has been facing a legal dispute over lease agreement by a society which occupied it on a lease.
 
 Mannankal Ramachandran, general secretary of Karamana-Kaliyikkavila action council (Nemom area) said that government has no genuine interest in the second phase of works. “By allotting land entangled in a legal issue, the government has showed that it has no interest in the project,” he said.
 
 The action council members are planning to conduct a major protest over the delay by the end of this month.
 
 
