BHUBANESWAR: Students' Union of the   is holding its annual day function on Tuesday. As higher education minister Anant Das and finance minister   are scheduled to attend the occasion, students are hopeful that the ministers will clear air on the second campus issue.

 The state government had created three autonomous colleges into universities on May 30, 2015. These are Ramadevi Women's University at Bhubaneswar, Gangadhar Meher University at Sambalpur and   at Berhampur. The last two universities got land for their second campuses, but the   is yet to get even a suitable location for establishment of its second campus.
 
 Recently, the state government drew flak for forming a committee to select a 30-acre land inside the   for second campus of the RD University. Students of Utkal University strongly protested the order of the government. The committee headed by Utkal vice chancellor   told the government that his university has not enough land for the second campus.
 
 Later the state government on February 6 formed an extended committee to decide a location for the second campus.
 
 Saubhagya Soumyashree Samal, president of university Students' Union, said the institution spread over 24.57 acres of land near Rupali Square became a university in 2015. But the land area remained same. "The university needs land for opening of new departments, good laboratories, sports complex, research centres to start doctoral programmes. The second campus is need of the hour," she added. 
 
 She said the institution became the first women's university of the state with 47 affiliated women's colleges under it. "How can the university manage with a small piece of land at the existing campus? We hope the higher education minister will announce something related to this issue on Tuesday," she added.
 
 Debasmita Dash, general secretary of the union, said they hope the ministers will clear air on the second campus controversy. "  and GM University got their second campus, but our university is yet to get a land for setup of the campus," she added.
 
 The student leaders will request the ministers on the occasion of the annual day celebration to demarcate a suitable land for the second campus. They will also urge them not to merge the autonomous college with the university and create principal post for the college.
 
