CHANDIGARH: Mystery shrouds disappearance of two teenaged cousins who left home for their vocation training centre in   on Saturday. Their bags and shoes were recovered close to the   village canal on Sunday morning, but there is no clue about their whereabouts.

 The   police have pressed a team of divers into action and they are looking for the bodies of the two girls in the canal. At the same time, the cops are also analyzing mobile call details of one of the two  .
 
 The girls, Savita and   are first cousins. They live in a joint family in Khabrha Kalan village and their family is engaged in farming. Parnita’s father had died long ago.
 
 The cousins, who had passed Class XII, were enrolled in vocational courses and were training to become computer technicians and beauticians at the   and   in Fatehabad.
 
 The police got information about the missing girls early on Sunday morning when villagers told them about belongings of the two cousins being found near the canal in Mehuwala village.
 
 Some of the villagers told the police that they had spotted the two cousins on Saturday evening near railway tracks. According to them, the girls were coming to the village from the Bhattu Kalan side.
 
 “During checking of the belongings, we found an identity card in a bag and accordingly the girl’s family was informed. Then we came to know about the missing girls. Soon after talking to their family, the divers were pressed into action and a net has been put along the canal,” inspector  , the SHO of Bhattu Kalan police station, said.
 
 “During investigation, we also discovered that the two girls had left their training centre at 1.30 pm,” added the SHO.
 
 As the girls were yet to be traced, the cops have now asked the irrigation department to stop the flow of water in the canal to bring down its level. “We have asked the department to stop water this morning. It will take 24 to 36 hours for the water level to come down. Hence, we are pinning our hopes on this. At the same time, we are analyzing their call details as well,” said the SHO.
 
 
