VADODARA: The cyber-crime cell busted a conspiracy of fanning communal violence by three youngsters who dubbed Shah Rukh Khan-starrer Raees’ clip and circulated it among their community members on Tuesday. 

 The trio dubbed their voices in the 14-second clip and used abusive language to incite people on Sunday night when communal violence had broken out in Fatehpura and Hathikhana areas of the old city during Ram Navami processions. 
 
 “One of the accused Arbazkhan  , who lives in Yakutpura, is the mastermind of this conspiracy. It was his idea to make the clip and circulate it in various groups. His intention was to spread communal hatred and it could have led to more violence,” said K G Bhaati, joint police commissioner. 
 
 Pathan, an electronics engineer, made the clip using a mobile app. He is son of former councillor Nazeer Khan Pathan. 
 
 Pathan added voice-over of his friend Mohammed Adil Sheikh in the clip that shows SRK threatening and beating a politician. Adil is heard hurling abuses in the clip and threatening Fulbaz, a local criminal from Fatehpura who has been externed from the city, to refrain from taking out a rally (procession) from Fatehpura and Yakutpura. 
 
 “Pathan made another clip in his own voice but he didn’t circulate it as he wanted to avoid getting caught. The third accused   Ali Saiyad circulated the clip in a WhatsApp group ‘ITI KE’ and then it was sent by the group members to other individuals,” said  , assistant commissioner of police (crime). 
 
 The cops got whiff of the video and began investigating about it by employing cyber surveillance. The investigations first led them to Mushtaq who then revealed names of two others. 
 
 Police, however, said that there was no direct connection of the three accused with the Sunday rioting. “Their intention was to spread violence by making such provocative video,” Bhaati added. They were booked under sections of Information Technology (IT) Act and criminal conspiracy. 
 
 Three persons including two policemen were injured in heavy stone pelting between two communities in Fatehpura after a stone was pelted at the Ram Navami procession. Seven persons have been arrested and 34 identified for rioting. 
 
