JALANDHAR: With the issue of Sikh separatism taking centre stage during Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau tour of India, Canada-based   (WSO) has strongly rejected allegations of rising Sikh radicalism. It said speaking against human rights abuses and peacefully advocating for political causes could not be confused or mistaken as radicalism.

 Stating that Canadian Sikhs and WSO abhor violence, the advocacy group also said unfounded allegations had damaged the Sikhs’ reputation and were causing harm after a barrage of groundless accusations of radicalism, violence and extremism. 
 
 “Allegations of ‘Sikh radicalism’ are not supported by facts and are used as a euphemism for speech that India finds disagreeable. Since 2007, every bilateral meeting between Canada and India has seen the issue of rising Sikh radicalism raised by the Indian side. There is nothing new or substantiated in the allegations currently being made. In contrast, four Indian diplomats were expelled from Canada in 1986 for espionage and interference within the Canadian Sikh community. Last year, bureaucrats from the   in Canada attempted to cancel a Punjab pavilion at a cultural festival in Brampton, Ontario,” said a statement issued by WSO president  .
 
 The group also cited Canadian media reports, which insinuated that intelligence agents in India intentionally worked on undermining PM Trudeau’s visit to India in order to instigate tension within the Canadian Sikh community, suggesting that Jaspal Atwal’s presence was arranged by factions within the Indian government, which wanted to undermine the Canadian tour to India.
 
 “What should have a been a week to celebrate the history and success of Sikhs in Canada with the visit of PM Trudeau to the  , has become a barrage of groundless accusations of radicalism, violence and extremism. As a result, many Canadian Sikhs have found themselves answering questions posed by co-workers and friends about extremism and radicalism. To make things clear, the WSO and Canadian Sikhs abhor violence. Furthermore, allegations of extremism among today’s Canadian Sikh community are disingenuous and not founded on actual evidence,” Mukhbir said.
 
 Senior vice-president of WSO Bhavjinder Kaur said, “While many in the Canadian Sikh community are concerned about issues such as human rights in India and lack of justice for the victims of the 1984 ‘Sikh genocide’, but this cannot be confused with radicalism. Even the Sikhs who believe in and advocate for a separate Sikhs state do so in a peaceful manner. Unfounded allegations made against Canadian Sikhs are incredibly damaging and result in actual harm to the community, which is thriving and proud of its accomplishments and contributions to every facet of Canadian life.”
 
 
