CHENNAI: As the Edappadi K Palaniswami dispensation huffs and puffs to the finishing post to mark its first year in office, its vigilance wing, the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption, has been kept busy in a seeming effort to clean up the corruption in the system. There is skepticism as well about the anti-corruption activism.

 “There is a feeling that the   and the Narendra Modi government is distancing themselves from our government. We can’t afford that especially when there is a perception of instability and imminent crisis,” said a party source. Terming it ‘vigilance activism’, the source said the chief minister had issued clear instructions to ensure that appointments and recruitments were not marred by controversies or corruption.
 
 With the government caught in a political storm through much of last year, appointments had been kept in abeyance. Recently, a backlog of appointments besides teachers’ transfers, running to thousands, was cleared. “The CM’s instruction was to ensure there is no corruption,” he said.
 
 A proof of this “genuine intent” is the fact that the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC), responsible for recruitment of personnel in the state’s public service, has been entrusted with filling up vacancies, which was earlier the responsibility of the government departments, thus cutting down corruption to a large extent, said the source. A teacher’s transfer can cost the candidate Rs 5 lakh in bribe.
 
 It may be a genuine intent to impress the people ahead of a crucial civic poll or perhaps to earn brownie points with the political benefactor, the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. “The fact is that governor   has expressed deep concern about corruption in higher educational institutions,” said a senior AIADMK leader, seeking anonymity. The concern deepened after the arrest of Bharathiar University vice-chancellor A Ganapathi for corruption. Key government departments like highways and PWD continue to be steeped in corruption and the vigilance crackdown is said to be spreading some amount of fear.
 
 But, skeptics within the AIADMK see the anti-corruption drive as mere posturing and a desperate bid to keep the party and its lacklustre leadership afloat. “There is nothing to say from my side that there is change. For more than two decades the AIADMK leadership has been battling corruption charges. They were even convicted. Still, no one sees any change,” said BJP Rajya Sabha MP and national executive member L Ganesan.
 
 Jayaram Venkatesan, convener of Arappor Iyakkam, felt the DVAC seems to have suddenly woken up. “There were no surprise checks (in government departments) between 2015 and August 2017. The agency, which was sleeping on corruption, conducted 61 surprise checks between August and December 2017,” he said. 
 
 Palaniswami’s detractors say his government’s inefficacy is reflected in the AIADMK’s growing estrangement with the people. “There was seething anger among the people against the V K Sasikala clan when EPS assumed charge as CM on February 16 last year. That anger seems to have dissipated. Now her nephew T T V Dhinakaran is an angel, a crowd puller. What does this say about people’s perception of corruption?” wondered a party colleague.
 
 
