BENGALURU:   has entered into agreements for mutual release of claims with three former board members — R Seshasayee, Jeffrey Lehman and John Etchemendy. The agreement prohibits them from making any claims against Infosys in the future.

 
 Infosys had signed a separation agreement with former CEO   at the time of his resignation, which included mutual release and non-disparagement obligation.
 
 Former Infosys chairman Seshasayee came under scrutiny for alleged lapses in corporate governance after an anonymous whistleblower raised charges of irregularities by the Infosys board under him demanding accountability from the board on its decision to buy   and Skava, severance package to former CFO Rajiv Bansal and awarding a higher remuneration to Sikka.
 
 Infosys has also entered into agreements to indemnify its directors and officers for claims brought against them under applicable law. “These agreements, among other things, indemnify our directors and officers for certain expenses, judgments, fines and settlement amounts,” the company said in its 2018 annual report.
 
 As part of its annual report, Infosys has detailed key qualifications, skills, and attributes which are taken into consideration while nominating candidates to serve on the board. In a first, Infosys has called out the area of expertise of each board member, evaluating their competencies and expertise to make effective contribution to the board and its committees.
 
 The key board qualifications include financial management, gender, ethnic, national or other diversity, global business experience, leadership, background in technology, experience in mergers and acquisitions, other board service and sales and marketing.
 
 Infosys has highlighted the areas of expertise of individual board members. The company’s chairman Nandan Nilekani and former independent director   have all the eight attributes listed as part of its key board qualifications. Its CEO   ticks all the boxes except for board service and governance, while other independent directors — Roopa Kudva, Punita Kumar Sinha, and D Sundaram — don’t check the box on technology in the board qualification matrix.
 
 However, the company has clarified that the absence of a mark against a member’s name does not necessarily mean the member does not possess the corresponding qualification or skill.
 
