BENGALURU:   Raghavendra Srinath, arrested for allegedly cheating hundreds of Bengalureans of crores of rupees by getting them to park their funds in his firm  , started his commodities business amid the hustle and bustle of APMC Yard, Yeshwantpur, a major agri produce market hub.

 Srinath fashioned himself as a commodities businessman and claimed to be an exporter of onion and chilli to Malaysia and Sri Lanka. He incorporated Vikram Global Commodities Private Limited with its headquarters at APMC Yard, on January 25, 2011. He and his wife, Sunitha Acharya, were directors of the firm, which had an authorized capital of Rs 5 crore and paid up capital of Rs 3.96 crore.
 
 A civil engineering graduate from BMS College of Engineering, Bengaluru, Srinath claimed that he learnt the rudiments of the commodities business in Singapore, where he worked for some time. He returned to India in early 2000 and began dabbling in agri produce exports.
 
 Srinath was born and brought up in Mysuru. “His father  , originally from Doddaballapur, 40km from Bengaluru, shifted to Mysuru and later to Bengaluru,” a police officer said.
 
 A chance meeting with a distant relative, LIC agent and JP Nagar resident Narasimha Murthy, provided Srinath an opportunity to scale up his business. Impressed by Srinath’s presentation of his agri produce export business, Murthy invested some money and got huge returns. Murthy immediately got his friends and relatives to invest in Srinath’s business.
 
 Police said the other two accused — Sutram Suresh, a former sports journalist and resident of Malleswaram, and KC Nagaraj, a resident of   — are LIC agents who were introduced to Srinath by Murthy. Prahlad, a classmate of Srinath and resident of AGS Layout, too joined them.
 
 Srinath designated his four fellow accused as Wealth Managers. Police said Murthy targeted middle class people to invest in the firm, while Sutram brought in high-profile individuals, including sports personalities, doctors and engineers. “The investments mobilized by these two run into several hundreds of crores. Prahlad and Nagaraj could only get investments of Rs 5 crore and Rs 4 crore, respectively,” a police officer who is part of the investigation said.
 
 As investments grew, Srinath opened his firm’s branches at Yelahanka New Town and   in Bengaluru, and also in Chennai. A friend, Ashokan Vaithilingam, helped him run the commodities trading business from Chennai.
 
 Srinath floated ‘Cargo & Logistics Management (India) Private Limited’, which was incorporated with the Registrar of Companies in Chennai on May 25, 2012. The firm is headquartered at Dr Natesan Salai Extension, Ashok Nagar, Chennai. “We are verifying the details of the Chennai firm,” a police officer said.
 
 
