After death of their husbands, they built life from scratch, piece by piece. Refusing to give up in the face of hardship, they rode out the worst with their steely resolve and perseverance. TOI attempts to capture the spirit of gritty women, who shaped the life of their sons and daughters by defying odds.

 
 
 
 She lost her husband in an accident in 2006, when her two daughters were not even in their teens. “My life changed so suddenly, ” says Surinder Kour Raina. “It was a tough time for us. It was then I had decided I would do all I can to support my daughters’ education. That was also the time when I just wanted to earn so much that I can feed my family and do not have to turn to anyone for help.” Good with needle and thread, Surinder used her sewing skills to earn livelihood and approach schools and institutions to look for work — all this while teaching her daughters to be self-reliant and ready to face any circumstance. She says, “My daughters were a great support to me. They looked after themselves, managed everything on their own. I sometimes feel I ruined their childhood because when everyone their age was playing and having fun, they were managing the house and looking after each other.” But the hard work bore fruit and both her daughters are now pursuing their dreams. Her elder daughter, who is doing PhD in Kathak, teaches dance in a private school. Her younger daughter Runeet Kour is Flight Lieutenant in Indian Air Force. For Runeet, her mother is a role model. “My mother has struggled to make ends meet. We have seen her working tirelessly from 4 am to 12 noon without complaining even once. Whatever my sister and I have achieved is all because of her. She did not let our education suffer despite so many problems life threw at us. She is a woman of great strength and I look up to her.” For last six years or so, she is successfully running a boutique of her own. 
 
 Quote: I feel women have immense potential. If a woman decides something and works honestly towards it, there is no one who can stop her.
 
 
 
 Nita Deep Bajpayee’s world turned upside down in a matter of seconds. When the family was returning from Harda, her husband suffered brain haemorrhage.
 
 “It was so sudden. He was absolutely fit and fine, and suddenly he left us. He was on ventilator for around a week and doctors were doing everything they could to save him, but I knew we lost him,” said Nita. She had a son and daughter by then. While the family was trying to come to terms with the loss, her husband’s friends tried to usurp his business. Recounting those days, she said, “It was difficult time for us. The business was rightfully ours. I was in so much of stress that it led to a paralytic attack. I was bed-ridden for six months.”
 
 “That was the worst time for me. But, I knew then that I have to be strong for the sake of my children and take charge of my life.” Nita was preparing for civil judge exams, when her husband died. “The exams were scheduled a month after my husband’s death and I was in two minds, unable to decide whether to write exams or not. Ultimately, I did not appear for the exam.” She began to paint just to encourage her daughter, little realising that Nita herself would make beautiful paintings. She had held her maiden exhibition on her husband’s first death anniversary as a tribute. Nita also managed to take back her husband’s business and is currently looking after it. Her daughter, a student of Class 10, followed Nita’s footsteps. 
 
 As an acclaimed international artist, Bajpayee runs an NGO for widows, where she offers counselling and provides a platform to single women. 
 
 
 
 
 “My son is my best friend. He takes care of me like mother and father,” says Sangeeta Choudhary, who lost her husband to cancer in 2011. Remembering the difficult time, she said, “My son was in Class 10 then. Those years, particularly, first two years after the death of my husband, were pretty tough for us.”
 
 But Sangeeta did not give up. She knew she had to move on both for herself and her son. After all, it was a question of four lives. When she was trying to piece together her life, her father-in-law encouraged her to complete LLM, and take up a job to keep herself busy. “At that time, I was a guest lecturer.” Soon after, Sangeeta immersed herself in education and work and also ensured at the same time her son did not miss out on anything. “All I did was to keep busy. I did other jobs. In all this, my son was my biggest strength. We both supported each other. I am proud of my son.” Sangeeta, now a coordinator at a private school, works every day from 9 am to 3 pm. In her free time, she teaches communication skills to children.
 
 Her son Aishwarya Choudhary looks up to his mother. In 2013, her son joined National Law Institute University (NLIU). Describing her as an epitome of strength and courage, Aishwarya said, “A woman gives birth and infuses life in everything she does. She never stops, always strives for our betterment. The same goes for my mother. She is my benchmark for everything. She has been my mother and father for almost seven years now. She has been there for me all these years. She parented by becoming a child herself, breaking the stereotypes of generation gap, by understanding and growing with me. I thank my stars for giving Sangeeta Choudhary as my mother. Couldn’t be more proud of her.” 
 
 “We have a happy family. It is important to trust yourself, work hard and keep yourself busy,” she says.
 
 
