KOZHIKODE: Four persons, including a child, from  , who were suspected to have joined the  , are believed to have been killed in an attack by the allied forces a few months ago. 

 Top police officials told TOI that they have credible information that K P Shihas, his wife   and their daughter, and   have been killed in Khorasan province in  . 
 
 The four were among the 21 people who disappeared from Kerala in May-June in 2016 and allegedly joined the Islamic State. 
 
 
 
 
  A child was among four people who were killed in an air raid on the Islamic State-controlled area in Afghanistan, according to the information received here on Friday.
 
 Claiming to have received ‘credible’ information on the deaths, senior police officers identified those killed as K P Shihas of Padne, his wife Ajmala, their daughter, and Muhammad Mansad of South Trikkaripur Village.
 
 Police said the people from Kasaragod were killed in Afghanistan’s Khorosan province.
 
 Though the exact date of their deaths was not known, it was assumed that they were killed by the allied forces a few months ago.
 
 The four were among the 21persons who had disappeared from Kerala in May-June, 2016. Three among them, Hafeesudeen, Marwan and Yahya, were killed in separate operations in 2017.
 
 B C Rahman, a social activist in Padne who used to contact the IS cadres through the Telegram app, said he received confirmation about their deaths.
 
 “I contacted Ashfaq Majeed and asked him some questions. He said the four were killed in bombing. He also told me that there are problems in Khorosan where they are holed up and another cadre, Easa, is with him,” Rehman said.
 
 Ashfaq also reportedly told Rehman that Firoz, another youth from Padne, was safe in Syria. Rehman said there was unconfirmed information that some persons from Padne were killed in US bombing in Afghanistan.
 
 “Ashfaq came online this evening and answered my questions," he said.
 
 Afghanistan has become the IS’s focus after the fall of its strongholds in Syria and Iraq. The IS leadership has issued a worldwide call to those willing to do hijra (migration) to reach Afghanistan.
 
 
