Thiruvananthapuram: At a time when almost everyone is discussing the ill-fate that befell on the Latvian woman, Liga Skromane, during a visit to the capital, police records show that the district has been ‘consistently on top’ when it comes to atrocities against  .

 In the first three months of this year alone, the district has reported 67 cases of  . Out of these, 51 cases were reported in Thiruvananthapuram Rural police district and 16 in Thiruvananthapuram City police district.
 
 Thiruvananthapuram Rural has been reporting the most number of rape cases consistently for nearly a decade. In the past, the police authorities had maintained that the main reason for this scenario was the huge area covered by the police district and the corresponding larger section of the population it houses. However, this argument is not a convincing one. For example, in 2008, Kollam district, which had 33 police stations reported 59 cases, which was more than the total number of cases reported in Thiruvananthapuram City (21 stations) and Rural (37 stations) together that year, which was 55. But since 2008, Thiruvananthapuram Rural has been consistently on top of the list.
 
 “This change could be because every complaint we receive is dealt with utmost seriousness and cases are registered,” said superintendent of police (rural) P Ashok Kumar. Many of the cases reported here were sex under the promise of marriage that later turned rape when the promise was not kept. Having said so, serious sexual exploitations too were being reported here, he added. “If a region consistently reports more cases of rapes, it only meant one thing – something is wrong within the society and an in-depth study is needed to find out what is wrong,” he said.
 
 According to state project director of State Mahila Samakhya Society, P E Usha, the majority of suvivors in the Nirbhaya shelter homes have two factors in common. One, they belong to weaker and vulnerable sections like SC and ST communities; and two, they are either from coastal regions or forest areas. ‘’Most of the people in these places work in unorganized sectors having odd time schedules. This may be affecting the interpersonal relationships within the families, making their kin vulnerable to such crimes,” Usha said.
 
 She also said that the way our system worked did little to inspire the confidence of the survivors to fight for justice. “Rape survivors are still deprived of interim relief. Many even lose the will to fight. This, in turn, affects the rate of conviction, boosting the confidence of potential offenders,” she pointed out.
 
 
