CHANDIGARH:Putting an end to speculations, retired IAS officer   resumed his duties as chief principal secretary to the Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday evening in the Punjab civil secretariat.

 A division bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court had on February 14 put stay on its single-bench order quashing his appointment. Though Kumar’s name plate was placed back outside his office on February 15, which was earlier removed, but there were speculations as to when he would join back the office.
 
 Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, special principal secretary to CM, confirmed on Monday, “He has joined back the office today evening.”
 
 On January 17, a single-judge bench of the high court had quashed Kumar’s appointment stating it unconstitutional with overriding powers. The same day, Kumar had left the office stating that he would not join back. But the chief minister had tried to personally persuade him to join back the office. A 1983-batch IAS officer, Kumar had retired in April 2016 from the post of additional chief secretary (development).
 
 Challenging single-judge bench’s order quashing Kumar’s appointment, the Punjab government in its appeal before the division bench on February 14 had questioned the petitioner – Mohali resident Ramandeep Singh’s locus standi to raise the issue.   minister P Chidambaram had represented the Punjab government before the division bench, along with advocate general  .
 
 The division bench had recorded, “at best even if the locus of the petitioner to file a writ of quo warranto is accepted, the same would necessarily espouse a public interest as the petitioner's interest does not conflict with that of state or the incumbent assigned the status of a chief principal secretary.” The division bench comprising Justices   and   had further added, “Since the learned single judge who dealt with the matter was not bestowed with the subject roster, the judgment in these circumstances could possibly be construed as coram non-judice. Even otherwise the matter needs deeper deliberation.”
 
 The division bench has posted Punjab government’s appeal for next hearing on April 17.
 
 
