KOLKATA: The protracted legal battle that dogged the State Election Commission before the panchayat poll now threatens to haunt it again after Monday’s body count.

  
  
 
 The   and the state government insisted on Monday that the poll violence-death figure this time was less than the toll of 25 during the five-phase 2013 panchayat vote, the emphasis on the “favourable” 2013-2018 comparison owing to the last Calcutta High Court directive. 
 
 This order allowed the SEC to go ahead with the one-day poll but added that the state election commissioner and senior state officials (who gave details of poll-day security to the court) would be held personally responsible and have to pay compensation from their salary and retirement benefits for deaths and damage to property if the level of violence this time was more than 2013’s. 
 
 The order would be applicable, the HC had said, if it was proved that the SEC and the state government had misled the court with “an unfair and a biased” security assessment.
 
 Advocate Supratik Roy moved the division bench of Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya and Justice Arijit Banerjee around 12.30 p.m. on Monday — just as the body count started to go up — pleading that the bench summon the state election commissioner and the state home secretary and direct them to stop the bloodshed. Roy showed video images of the violence to the bench — a rare development in court — but the bench directed him to file a proper application.
 
 Outside the court, the SEC insisted there were only “six poll deaths”. “Six persons were killed in poll-related violence. Every death is unfortunate but   in   have a precedence of being violent. More deaths have been occurred in every panchayat poll since 2003,” a senior SEC official said. He, however, refused to compare Monday’s deaths to any single-day poll toll in Bengal (the 2013 toll of 25 was spread over a five-phase poll). 
 
 State director-general of police Surajit Kar Purakayastha, too, said there were six poll-related deaths and added that the rest were not directly linked to polls but, nevertheless, were being probed.
 
 Senior lawyer and CPM leader Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, however, described the SEC’s focus on numbers as “myopic” and said he was examining his options of moving the Supreme Court or the Calcutta HC. The May 10 order had various facets, he reasoned. “A free and fair poll is of paramount importance. The SEC cannot shirk its responsibility. The deaths on one day of polling prove the inadequacy of the security provided. We will move court. The SEC is accountable for these deaths,” he said. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh and state Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, too, indicated they were examining legal options.
 
 The SEC, wary of the impact of significant blood-spill, shot off several letters over the weekend to the state police directorate and district panchayat officers, emphasising the importance of free and fair polls.
 
 But this, say legal experts, may not be enough cover for the SEC. The May 10 order emphasised that the court was reposing its “faith and trust in the high constitutional functionary” who had vowed for the adequacy of the security arrangements made by the state government. The HC said it believed the decision taken by the state and approved by the SEC was “free, fair and unbiased”.
 
 
