Mumbai: The   continues to scale new peaks. The index on Tuesday went past the 36k mark for the first time in history. The sensex took just four sessions to rally from 35k to the next milestone of 36k — the third fastest 1,000-point jump for the index, tied with the 18k-19k journey in October 2007. 

 A slew of factors — including robust corporate results, strong buying by foreign funds, expectations of global growth picking up pace and government’s resolve to move ahead with economic reforms — boosted market sentiment with the sensex gaining 342 points to end at at 36,140. The IMF’s prediction that the Indian economy will grow at 7.4% during the current year also added to the upbeat sentiment on  , dealers said. The NSE’s   too broke through the 11k ceiling and closed at 11,084, up 118 points on the day.
 
 In May 2014, just around the time the Narendra Modi-led BJP was set to win the   elections, the sensex had surged from 23k to 24k in just two sessions, which is still the fastest pace in history.
 
  chairman Motilal Oswal told TOI that despite some expected volatility in the short run due to an overbought market condition, he was very optimistic about the Indian market in the long term. “Expected strong corporate earnings numbers, strong flow of domestic liquidity into the stock market and positive global cues relating to equities would drive the market,” he said.
 
 The day’s rally was led by foreign fund buying, with domestic funds too supporting the up move. End of the session data on the BSE showed that while foreign funds were net buyers at Rs 1,229 crore, domestic institutions were net buyers at Rs 169 crore. Official data showed that so far in the month, foreign funds have net infused a little over $1.3 billion into Indian stocks.
 
 Despite the euphoria, some of the broking houses are turning cautious on the market. On Tuesday, foreign broking major   (BofAML) warned that by the year’s end the sensex could slide to 32,000 if the government introduces long-term capital gains ( ) tax on equities. 
 
 Currently, investors do not pay any tax on gains from stocks they own if those equities are sold at least one year after buying. In 2004, a tax on LTCG was abolished but recently the debate on introduction of the tax has gained momentum. Several market players believe that in the coming Budget on February 1, the government may introduce the tax in some form.
 
 BofAML warned that such a move could dampen investor sentiment and may also turn counter to domestic inflows. “We stay cautious on Indian equities and peg the target for sensex at 32,000 by December 2018. We see little possibility that the forthcoming Budget would deliver reasons for material upside to an already inflated equity market,” a report by the broking house said. “The reinstatement of some form of long-term capital gains tax on equity may be negative for returns and hit market sentiment,” it added.
 
 To be on the safer side and cushion their investments from any sudden slide in the market from the current high level, several brokers are also advising their clients to put their money into blue-chip stocks. 
 
 
