CHANDIGARH/ROHTAK:   horror continues unabated as three more gang rapes were reported in the state on Thursday. With this, the tally of rapes in the last six days has increased to eight in the state that is facing flak for the deteriorating law and order condition.

 The cases were reported from across Haryana: A Dalit girl, studying in Class XII, was abducted from outside her house in   village of   district and raped by four men at knife-point. In the second case, a 20-year-old woman was raped by two youths of   village in   district. And, a second-year student of   was raped in a moving car by two men at   in Gurgaon district of the state.
 
 With the focus of the whole country on the alarming rise in such cases in Haryana, senior police officers are personally supervising investigations. 
 
 
 
 
 In Charkhi Dadri, SP Himanshu Garg said the 17-year-old Dalit student had told cops that four persons had gang-raped her on Monday night after abducting her at knife-point when she had left home to attend a call of nature. The four accused took turns to rape her after taking her to a secluded place and was dumped outside her house in an unconscious state on Tuesday morning.
 
 “She is terrified and we have provided her all the legal help, including a woman advocate for counselling. Once our statement gets recorded, strictest action would be taken against the accused,” said Garg. The girl’s father was away and her mother waited for her husband to return before informing the police. The couple took their daughter to Charkhi Dadri women’s police station and lodged a complaint on Thursday.
 
 DSP Pradeep Kumar talked to the survivor after her parents lodged their complaint and SP Garg is personally supervising the investigation. A case against four persons has been registered.
 
 In Fatehabad district, a 20-year-old woman was gangraped by two youths of her village at Bothan Kalan on Wednesday evening. She allegedly was raped when she was alone at home.
 
 A case under Sections 376-D (gang rape), 450 (trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. Deepak Saharan, Fatehabad SP, told TOI that two teams of police, including the staff of CIA branch has been assigned to nab the accused.
 
 The survivor said she was gang raped after her family members had left home to mourn death of a relative. The two accused barged into her house and gang-raped her on Wednesday. Her medical examination was conducted the civil hospital.
 
 In Gurgaon district, a second-year student was gangraped in a moving car allegedly by two youths in Farrukhnagar area on Monday.
 
 The BA student claimed on her way to home from college, she had been kidnapped by the two accused who then raped her in their car. They dumped her on a road side and also threatened to kill her if she narrated her ordeal to anyone. An FIR has been registered against two youths, who are reportedly residents of Khera Khurampur village, but no arrests have been made yet.
 
 
 
 
