Bhopal: The SPG commandos in charge of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s protection have taken over security arrangements at the national DGP and IGP meet that will be held at BSF’s Tekanpur academy in Gwalior from January 6 to 8.

 This would be Modi’s first visit to Gwalior. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan is due to travel to Gwalior to greet the PM. 
 
 Standard advance security liaison was performed along with officials of central intelligence and local police on Friday. State DGP R K Shukla and chief of states intelligence Rajeev Tondon were present at Tekanpur when central IB and SPG inspected the security arrangements. The Intelligence Bureau (IB) is hosting this programme. The IB chief, joint directors and senior officials of SPG have reached Gwalior.
 
 The security cordon for the venue begins some 8km ahead of BSF’s Tekanpur academy. Sources say only 10 people have been allowed to receive the PM at the runway of IAF’s Maharaja airbase at Gwalior. Madhya Pradesh Police has selected 100 cops for PM’s security. “The inner circle will consist of SPG commandos, the second layer will be of central IB sleuths and the third layer will be of local police. Moreover, Army and Air Force have been alerted,” said a senior police officer.
 
 The DGP meet begins on the afternoon of January 6. Union home minister Rajnath Singh and national security adviser Ajit Doval have already reached the venue. PM Modi will join on January 7. The PM and home minister will give away awards for meritorious and distinguished services, too.
 
 This is only the fourth time since Independence that the conference is being held outside Delhi — Guwahati in 2014, Gujarat in 2015 and Hyderabad in 2016. The idea of holding the meeting of police chiefs outside the national capital was mooted by Modi after he took over in 2014. 
 
 The focus areas this time are infiltration, radicalization of youth and cybercrime, said sources. Issues like cross-border terrorism and attempts to lure Indians into Middle East terrorist groups like ISIS were discussed at the last meeting, besides stress on filling up vacant posts, police reforms, and tackling the double menace of narcotics smuggling and human trafficking. NSA Ajit Doval will also address the gathering on cross-border terrorism.
 
 About 250 senior police officers are expected to attend the conclave, which will discuss issues such as the situation in major conflict theatres of Jammu and Kashmir, Left Wing Extremism (LWE), and the Northeast, says various agency reports.
 
 
