NAGPUR: In a blow to state education minister  , the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has quashed and set aside his order to refuse closure permission to a city school which had decided to shut down due to financial constraints and other reasons.

 The petitioner-trust   has clarified that it was not closing down Gurunanak Primary and High School and Junior College at   but was only switching over from a government-aided institution to a private body. Currently, 4,000 students are enrolled at the school having 100 teaching staffers.
 
 While pronouncing the verdict, the division bench of Justice   and Justice Swapna Joshi held the education minister’s order as “clearly illegal”.
 
 Adv PA Abhyankar represented the petitioner while assistant government pleader BM Lonare stood for the state of Maharashtra. Adv RK Srivastava and Adv YB   represented 74 other respondents in the case.
 
 Upset over the meagre allocation of government funds, the society had, on July 21, 2016, served a notice to the state government informing it about the closure from next academic session. A month later, the deputy director of education asked the petitioner to continue to run the school for some time till the government takes a decision in respect of transfer of management.
 
 But, the society received an order from the minister of education that it would not be entitled to close the school, forcing the society to move the court.
 
 Petitioner’s counsel Abhyankar submitted before the court that in view of the Clause 7.5 of Secondary School Code, the management is only required to give an advance notice of one-year about the closure of school. The purpose of advance notice is to help the authorities to take necessary steps for accommodating the students and rehabilitating the employees in other schools.
 
 Abhyankar argued that it was not permissible for education authorities to refuse closure permission. Besides, prior permission of any authority was not necessary as per the code.
 
 Citing an earlier HC order in Pujya Sane Guruji Vidya Prasarak Mandal case, the bench observed that the teachers and the students in such school would not be adversely affected as a duty is cast upon the education authorities to transfer the students and absorb the teachers in some other schools.
 
 Society president Gurbux Singh Lamba and CEO-general secretary   said the society has promised to accommodate all the students from the next academic session at a nominal fee.
 
 
