KOLKATA: After two years of research,   has decided to go public with an oral history bank of Partition stories, which the Institute claims, will be quite different from the official history that we are used to.

 Oral history is the collection and study of historical information using tape recordings of interviews with people having personal knowledge of past events.
 
 The humanities and social sciences faculty of the institute —that has worked on the project —announced its findings on Republic Day to drive home the significance of this research.
 
 The idea stemmed from the fact that there is an over-dominance of official histories and it has overshadowed oral histories and testimonies of ordinary people that can provide an alternative memory of the Partition. Faculty members and researchers of the project feel that authoritative official history has often excluded the rhetoric of common people, whose unique stories and experiences have remained unknown and hence an oral history bank of this singularly important event needed to be created.
 
 “Take the story of Hamir Singh, who was displaced from Jallalabad, now a Pakistani village on the border of  . He has revealed that people in that part of the country were not familiar with Nehru at all and thought that the only leader to reckon with was Jinnah. So when Nehru once came for a referendum asking the Hindus whether they would want to stay in Jalalabad or move to Hindustan, most preferred Jalalabad,” said Anjali Gera Roy, faculty member and lead researcher of the project.
 
 The team of 11 has created the oral history bank by talking to 200 Partition victims, all in their 70s and 80s, who were young adults at that time. “It was imperative to record their statements because we are losing people, who have witnessed and were victims of Partition,” Roy stressed, adding that each interview has added new revelations. Take for example, the interview of Radhakrishna Nagpal, a Multani ethnic group survivor. The community crossed over and settled in Ranchi. Similarly there are refugees from  , ho settled in Kharagpur during the Noakhali riots.
 
 The bank also has a story of a person named Akhon Shafi Tabassum from Ladakh. Tabassum suddenly got separated from his father, a school teacher, when his village was divided in a half and barbed wires were put up. The project was given to the Institute by the  , a wing of the HR ministry.
 
