BENGALURU: Vivekananda Shetty, a  , has managed to cut his   to office by an hour and save a significant sum on his  , thanks to the newly introduced  

 “Earlier I had to take at least three buses --- Malleswaram to Majestic, Majestic to Marathahalli and Marathahalli to my office in Kadubeesanahalli and spend around Rs 2,500 for a monthly pass. Now my daily commute costs no more than Rs 30 a day. Once I get a monthly train pass, I will be spending even lesser,” he said. 
 
 Shetty rides his two-wheeler to the Cantonment railway station from where he boards a train to Byappanahalli station, since it’s cheaper than Metro. “There are no direct trains from KSR Bengaluru to Bellandur Road station between 8.30am and 10am. So I have to switch trains at Byappanahalli. But still this is faster and cheaper. Earlier I would be stuck in traffic in buses, particularly on the K R Puram stretch,” said Shetty on board the Banaswadi-Hosur DEMU train.
 
 “Railways should introduce more services on KSR Bengaluru–Hosur routes during office hours,” Shetty said. Having boarded the train from Byappanahalli at 10am, he got down at Bellandur Road station by 10.15am. From the station, it’s walkable distance to his office. 
 
 1.50L daily passengers 
 
 Over 1.50 lakh passengers use the city’s skeletal suburban train services every day. Most commuters are from tech corridors like Bellandur, Electronics City, Hebbal, Yeshwantpur, Whitefield and Sarjapur.
 
 South Western Railway records show Jolarpettai section (Cantonment-Whitefield-Marikuppam) sees the maximum passengers, and records a daily ridership of over 62,000. It is followed by the Mysuru section (Nayandahalli -Kengeri - Mandya) where the daily passenger traffic is over 31,000. Over 20,000 people travel daily on the Arsikere section (Malleswaram - Yeshwantpur - Tumakuru). Officials say these numbers may have further risen by now. 
 
 G Mahendra, who works in Whitefield, said: “BMTC buses take at least 45 minutes to an hour during the peak hour to travel from Byappanahalli to Whitefield but the train takes less than 20 minutes. Earlier, I used to spend over Rs 100 a day on bus fares alone but now I avail a monthly railway pass for just Rs 100.”
 
 Another passenger Manjunath Khasnees said: “We want the railways to operate trains from Kengeri to Whitefield via KSR Bengaluru during morning and evening. They should also provide stoppage for express trains at Hoodi railway station to help thousands of passengers.”
 
 South Western railway officials said they are operating 54 suburban services in the existing 460km railway network. “The Centre has already sanctioned Rs 12,000 crore in the budget for the proposed 161km suburban network. The proposed quadrupling of Bengaluru –Whitefield route and doubling of Yeshwantpur – Byappanahalli – Channasandra and Byappanahalli – Hosur lines will facilitate introduction of more suburban services,” said an official.
 
 Online plea
 
 An online petition, launched by a rail passenger on change.org, asking the railways to extend Banasawadi- Hosur suburban train till Yeshwantpur has received over 600 signatures. 
 
 Track trains on NTES app 
 
 Passengers can check the list of trains and track them on the National Train Enquiry System (NTES) mobile app. However, there are complaints that the app is not being updated on a real-time basis. 
 
 
