PUNE: Developer DS Kulkarni and his wife, Hemanti, got a three-day extension of interim protection from the Bombay high court on Monday after he furnished a communication to the court showing that funds have been arranged from a foreign client and would take two days to reach his bank account. 

 Justice Sadhana S Jadhav of the high court has posted the matter for next hearing on January 25. 
 
 Kulkarni, better known as DSK, and his wife are facing arrest in a case under the   (MPID) Act for allegedly cheating several depositors by defaulting on payment of interest and matured deposits. 
 
 On December 22, 2017, the   had given DSK four weeks to ensure that he deposited Rs 50 crore with the registry of the Bombay HC. As such, the interim protection granted by the high court to the couple on November 10, 2017 continued till Monday when the four-week period got over. 
 
 Kulkarni’s lawyer Manoj Mohite told TOI, “We (DSK) submitted to the court a communication, along with relevant documents, to show that funds have been arranged from a foreign client. But, the same are yet to reach our bank account. Details of the bank account too were given and time was sought to enable the fund transfer to take effect. The court then adjourned the matter to Thursday (January 25).”
 
 Additional public prosecutor Veera Shinde said, “The high court adjourned the matter by way of a last chance and directed the investigating officer (IO) to verify the claims made in the communication relating to the funds and related documents submitted by the developer. The funds are to be released from Singapore into a   account.”
 
 In an exercise to show his bonafide, DSK had furnished an affidavit in the HC on December 4, 2017 undertaking to deposit Rs 50 crore with the HC registry in a fortnight’s time. The high court then took the affidavit on record and granted time on condition that if he failed to make such deposit, the interim protection granted on November 10, 2017 would automatically stand vacated. 
 
 The developer failed to meet his commitment and the HC on December 19, 2017 refused to take any further notice of his plea, stating that its order of December 4, 2017 was quite clear. DSK then moved the supreme court by filing an special leave petition. The apex court on December 22, 2017 granted him four-week time to implement the HC’s order.
 
 
