MANALI: The body of 23-year-old Delhi resident  , who had gone missing from Malana village in Kullu on March 8, was found in a deep gorge beyond the village on Friday. However, it could not be retrieved due to heavy rain, snow and treacherous terrain.

 A search and rescue team comprising police, mountaineers and local youth, led by  , discovered the body lying in a deep gorge. The area is about 1.5 hours trek from Malana village. While a few mountaineers managed to reach the body, the conditions made it difficult for them to lift it out.
 
 Kullu superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri said, “Our team is on standby. We are waiting for weather to turn favourable. We shall probably lift the body on Saturday. The terrain is treacherous and there is a risk of sliding stones. The body has a tattoo on its right arm and I confirmed from his family members that Aman had a similar tattoo. The body has been found near the place from where we had recovered his clothes and shoes last month. Also, there is no other missing report in the region. So we are sure that this is Aman’s body,” she said.
 
 The team of forensic experts has also left for the spot to lift evidences to ascertain the reasons of death. The family members have also left for Kullu.
 
 Negi, who was leading the search operation, said, eight people from Malana village helped the team search for the body. “Indo-Tibetan   and the NDRF also joined the search. Police and my team had been searching for him for over a month. Now, we are trying to lift out the body,” he said.
 
 According to information, Aman worked as an engineer with a private firm in Gurgaon. He had come to visit Parvati valley on his own and had stopped contacting family after March 7. When he couldn’t be reached till March 11, his father   came to Kullu to register missing persons report with the police. The police launched a search operation on March 13.
 
 Kumar’s doubt of his son going missing was supported by the owner of the homestay in Malana where Aman was staying. Some of Aman’s belongings were still in the room when he had left.
 
 Earlier, body of another Delhi tourist Akhil Chadha, 30, was recovered from a forest near Manali on Tuesday. He had gone missing since April 10. He was on a trekking trip with 11 of his friends but got separated on the third day of their trek and had gone missing.
 
 
