 is a man of few words. The 
  director strongly believes that his work speaks for him. All set to begin his next outing 
  with  , Raju Murugan says that he is on a location hunt for the film. “As the name suggests, travel will be a crucial element in the film. We are planning to begin the shoot in May once we zero in on the locations. Music for the film is by Santhosh Narayanan and Selvakumar of 
  fame is handling the cinematography,” says the director, who was in the city recently for an interaction with the students of PSG College of Arts and Science.

 Apart from filmmaking, Raju Murugan is also penning the dialogues for 
 , the Tamil remake of the Telugu hit, Arjun Reddy. “It’s a proud moment to team up with Bala Sir, who is directing the film. I am learning many nuances of filmmaking from him. The dialogues are inspired by the Telugu version and it was a great experience working in 
 .”
 
 Raju Murugan is a director who has taken the path less trodden when it comes to filmmaking. His 
 , which went on to win the National Award, delved into corruption and social injustice in the society. When quizzed about his take on the debate whether cinema should be educative or only a source of entertainment, pat comes the reply. “I consider cinema as yet another medium to communicate one’s thoughts and engage the audience in socially-relevant topics. It’s a strong weapon to take political and social thoughts forward. I know many are discussing this but I never get into this debate. To me, cinema is a medium to express my thoughts.”
 
 He adds, “I recently read about the toilet scam in Sulur and was disheartened. (The toilet scam was a crucial part of the plot of 
 ). Nothing much seems to have changed. It’s sad that people are not even getting their basic needs. The corrupt politicians and bureaucrats are one of the prime reasons behind this.”
 
 Will actors entering into politics change the scenario? “Tamil Nadu has political space and everybody is free to give it a shot. I just wish whoever comes to power addresses the environmental damage at the earliest; put an end to communal politics and work toward a casteless society.”
 
 On that note, will Raju Murugan enter politics? “Well, I’m not a filmmaker; I’m an activist. I believe activism is bigger than politics. I respect activists like Medha Patkar, A Nandhini and M Valarmathi. They are people’s politicians. They are great influencers in the society and they command respect. Among politicians, I respect veteran (CPI) leader R Nallakannu Ayya.”
 
