JAIPUR: A notorious criminal was injured in a shootout with the   police on Tuesday night after cops had set up barricades following a tip-off about suspected cattle smugglers passing through Sikandra area of the district was received.

 The police said, they have seized two different mini-trucks, including the one in which 13 cows were being transported. As no cows were found in the truck by the criminal, a case under the bovine act has not been registered against him. 
 
 Idrish, a resident of Bharatpur district, was rushed to the SMS Hospital in Jaipur with bullet injuries; his condition is stated to be out of danger. The police said that he had been involved in many cases including that of bovine smuggling, and murder of a policeman in Dausa. There are eight cases registered against him in Bharatpur’s Pahadi police station.
 
 According to Dausa SP Chuna Ram Jat, the Sikandra police station had received information that some vehicles suspected to be transporting cows will pass through their area.
 
 The police set up barricades and deployed its constables to intercept the suspected vehicle. “There were two mini-trucks which were asked to stop at the check point by Sikandra police station, but the trucks speed through the barricading and headed towards Geejgarh. A police outpost there tried to stop the trucks but the suspects threw beer bottles, stones at cops and eventually opened fire when they were cornered,” Jat informed TOI.
 
 Another police vehicle which was coming behind blocked the escape route and fired at the truck in retaliation. While two of Idrish’s accomplices fled from the spot, he was injured in the firing after a bullet hit him. “No cattle was recovered from his truck but we have recovered a country made pistol, ropes and liquor bottles,” the officials said.
 
 Meanwhile, the second truck rushed ahead but was eventually intercepted near Paldi road by Mahua police station. The driver abandoned the vehicle and fled, “we recovered 13 cows from that truck. However, we cannot confirm if both the trucks belonged to the same gang. It is can be possible that truck carrying cattle was moving behind Idrish’s truck,” Jat said, adding that search operations are underway to arrest the remaining suspects.
 
 
