In the latest episode of  , Rajchandra’s younger brother Abhay informs him that the local people have found out about   and Notun Thakurmoshai.

 Gadadhar’s family is happy to meet Ramchand. A representative from Sripur arrives and requests   to perform puja at Surendra Dutta’s household. Ramkumar’s entire family gets upset when Ramchand discusses about their present financial situation.
 
 Meanwhile, Rajchandra and Rani Rashmoni find out that a group of people, who preaches untouchability and superstitious beliefs in the name of religion, has gathered. And Bachashpati Moshai is heading the group. Rajchandra observes that   (Notun Thakurmoshai), a born brahmin, is being punished for marrying Soudamini, a girl from a lower caste.
 
 Rajchandra realizes that the society will not accept the young couple due to their caste difference. He protests criticism against him. He further justifies that protecting Notun Thakurmoshai and Soudamini, a couple seeking shelter in their house becomes his primary duty. Bachashpati Moshai says that he has committed an offence by supporting the newly married couple.
 
 Rani Rashmoni is also being criticized by other family members.
 
 Rajchandra warns Bachashpati Moshai that he would complaint against them to the appropriate authority.
 
 Notun Thakurmoshai expresses his helplessness in protecting his newly married wife Soudamini. Bachashpati Moshai declares to chop off his hands.
 
 In an angry and authoritative voice, Bachashpati Moshai declares that henceforth none from the society would step into Rajchandra’s home.
 
 Abhay also criticizes Rajchandra for this entire episode.
 
 Rajchandra expresses his concern over Soudamini’s safety. Notun Thakurmoshai informs that Soudamini has been dragged into the backyard of their house. He is helpless as he couldn’t save his wife Soudamini. Bachashpati Moshai orders to chop off his hands.
 
 Rani Rashmoni and Rajchandra protest against them. Rajchandra calls the guards to deter the outrage.
 
 On the other hand, in Kamarpukur, Soudamini’s aunt is worried as she couldn’t find her. She reaches Gadadhar’s home. Suddenly   starts crying. His mother asks Soudamini’s aunt to take care of the baby. But she is hesitant as she belongs to a lower caste. But Gadadhar’s mother explains that there is so much difference between them.
 
 In the meanwhile, Rani Rashmoni instructs them to rescue the newly married couple and take them to a safe place.
 
