JABALPUR/BHOPAL: In perhaps a first decision of its kind in the country, a single-judge bench of   high court on Wednesday directed the district magistrate of Sagar, to recover the compensation awarded to a minor girl, who had lodged an FIR against a person accusing him of rape, but later backed out during the trial.

 
 While ordering the release of the accused on bail, the bench of Justice S K Palo said, “Before parting with the order, it would be appropriate to hold that, if any compensation has been given to the prosecutrix (complainant) under the Prevention of Atrocities against SC/ST Act, 1989, by the state government, the same may be recovered from her. Copy of the same be sent to district magistrate, Sagar for recovery of the amount.”
 
 A provision included in Prevention of Atrocities against SC/ST Act in April, 2016, provides for compensation of up to Rs five lakh in case a woman from these communities is raped even if the trial does not end in conviction of the accused. The accused had moved the high court with an appeal for bail after the lower courts rejected it twice. Accused is also a minor, according to age determined by the special judge.
 
 
 
 
 He was being tried as an adult in view nature of the offence. According to prosecution story, the complainant along with her aunt had gone to attend the call of nature when the accused sexually assaulted her. When she shouted, her sister and aunt came to the spot while the accused fled.
 
 After an FIR was lodged, police registered a case and following investigation, a charge-sheet under sections 376 (2) and 506 of the IPC, section 3 (1) (b) (ii) and 3 (2) (5) of the Prevention of Atrocities against SC/ST Act and sections 3 &4, 7 &8 of the POCSO Act was filed against the accused in the court.
 
 He pleaded with the high court that witnesses in the case including the complainant turned hostile and therefore, he be granted bail. The prosecution opposed the bail stating that the FIR was lodged by rape survivor herself and medical test carried out after the FIR also proved to be positive.
 
 The court, however, noted that not only the witnesses have turned hostile in the case, but the judge trying the case has determined age of the accused less than 18 years while the complainant has stated in the court that age of the perpetrator was about 30 years. The court, in view of the facts of case, while allowing the bail plea also directed the district collector to recover the compensation amount from the complainant, if she was paid any.
 
