AHMEDABAD: Pravin Togadia, the former international working president of the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP), who on Tuesday began an indefinite fast at Vanikar Bhavan — the VHP’s Ahmedabad office — said that Prime Minister   had breached the trust of Hindus.   said that Modi had reneged on the promise to construct the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Togadia quit the VHP last week after the candidate he had supported in the organizational elections lost to a rival backed by the BJP and the RSS. 

 “Every day, jawans are dying on the border, farmers are committing suicide because of debt, and daughters are in despair over rapes,” Togadia said. “Home-makers are in panic because of uncontrolled prices. Yet, you (Modi) are going on foreign tours. You made a U-turn on Pakistan, which is killing our jawans. Narendrabhai, why have you given Pakistan the most favoured nation status?” Togadia went on to say: “Traders donated money to run the RSS, the VHP, and the BJP. When   was not in power, traders were good people. But now some have become criminals.” 
 
 Togadia said that demonetization and GST have hit the traders hard. “It’s a crime to take away employment of crores of people,” he said. “But in the list of some 25 major U-turns, the sharpest one is on the promise to construct the Ram temple in Ayodhya by an Act of parliament.” Togadia went on to say: “And now you say that court will decide on the Ram temple.”
 
 Togadia said that over the past four years, he had repeatedly pleaded for the Act that would facilitate the building of the temple. “But I was asked to either drop my demand or leave the VHP,” he said. “I said no to both, so I was forced to leave the VHP for which I worked for 32 years. I said I will die but not abandon the cause. In 2001, I was offered the post of Gujarat’s chief minister. But I declined it.” 
 
 Togadia said: “The voice of Hindus, Kashmir Hindus in particular, traders, farmers, labourers, youth, women, soldiers, and home-makers have been suppressed. I will be the voice of all these people.” 
 
 Togadia launched the ‘Hindu First’ forum and demanded a new law to build the Ram temple and more stringent laws against cow slaughter. 
 
 
