Given that Bengaluru today is governed by e-commerce, it comes as no surprise that Bengalureans choose to even buy treats and goodies for festivals like   on websites. This year, despite festive markets sprucing up sugarcane, ellu bella (sesame seeds-jaggery mixture) and more, there is also a marked increase in the number of Bengalureans opting to shop through websites.
KV  , who runs   from  , says he has shipped quite a lot of acchus (sugar moulds) and ellu bella both within Bengaluru and across the globe. “The demand for ferrying these goodies increases with each passing year. This year we have as many as 40-50 kgs of ellu bella that have been shipped within Bengaluru itself. What works to our advantage is the fact that we deliver these orders within three hours in Bengaluru. Many people opt for this rather than stepping out after their busy schedules,” says Raghavan.
 Subrath Kumar, marketing manager of Delight Foods — which ships goodies across the country, says that there is a greater demand today, especially among the older generation who have discovered that these traditional goodies can be shipped directly to wherever they want. “We send across an average of 25 kgs of ellu bella daily just within Bengaluru during this season, along with around 50 packets of acchus. People also send across around 30 kgs of ellu bella to various places outside the city, especially the other metros, where they have their near and dear ones staying. This has helped them ensure they get to share the festive spirit in a more orderly fashion,” he says. 
 Raghavan too echoes the same opinion, while adding that people outside the country are a big part of his clientele as they yearn for the goodies from home. “We have shipped around 75 kgs of ellu bella to diffferent parts of the globe. What works for someone like me, who has headed the logistics department of an IT company for over three decades, is the fact that it is easier to channel the shipping of these treats. What we do is tap the sources who are good with providing these goods but aren’t able to send it across and partner with them to help ensure the demands are met,” says he. 
 No fall in traditional shoppers
 The festive markets in the city continue to be colourful and have a lot to offer. Markets like Gandhi Bazaar, Jayanagar 4th Block and Malleswaram are still thronged by the traditional Bengalureans. BC Vijaykumar, proprietor, Satish Stores, Gandhi Bazaar, says, “There may be a lot of websites providing goodies and selling the same, but our shoppers have not ceased coming. They still throng our stores and, if anything, the sales are increasing with every passing year.”
 
 
