GURUGRAM: He is the man in form, having pocketed a cool Rs. 4.56 crore (approx) from two wins in the space of a couple of months.  , 21, goes into the Hero  , the country’s marquee   event, as out-and-out favourite.

 The Indian Open will be in town next week, with the country’s leading players, including Sharma, defending champion S S P Chawrasia, Anirban Lahiri and Shiv Kapur, being joined by top internationals. 
 
 The fiddly Gary Player course, at the city’s DLF Golf and Country Club, will play host to the $1.75 million event.
 
 This will be the first look Indian galleries will have of Shubhankar Sharma following his recent breakthroughs. He became the country’s youngest international winner in December 2017, when he outlasted the field at the Joburg Open in South Africa. Two months on, he added a win in the Maybank Championship in Malaysia, closing with a brilliant 62 after starting the final day four back.
 
 At No. 75 in the world, Sharma is now the highest ranked Indian professional, having overtaken Lahiri (now No. 79) on the back of his win in Kuala Lumpur. He also currently heads the Race to Dubai on the European Tour, and the Asian Tour’s Habitat for Humanity standings. This week, the Chandigarh man will be in Mexico City for his World Golf Championships (WGC) debut. The WGC events, a notch below the majors, attract the world’s best players, and Sharma will be eager to prove he belongs in their company when he tees off at the $10 million WGC-Mexico Championship.
 
 “I could not have imagined this happening (three months ago). I wouldn’t have imagined myself playing on the European Tour, let alone a WGC event. That’s how the game is,” Sharma told the Asian Tour. “When you play good, anything is possible. You need those small breaks and I got those breaks in   and Malaysia. That shows you anything is possible. You just have to keep working hard.”
 
 Among the international contingent looking to play party poopers are Thailand’s Thongchai Jaidee, a one-time Indian Open winner, Thomas Bjørn, the current Europe Ryder Cup captain, Argentine Emiliano Grillo, a winner on the PGA Tour (and member of the International team, alongside Lahiri, in the 2017 Presidents Cup), and 2011 British Open champion Darren Clarke.
 
 The 54th edition of the Indian Open, sanctioned by the European and Asian tours, will be played from March 8 to 11. Indians have enjoyed success here for three straight years, with Chawrasia winning in 2017 and 2016, and Lahiri in 2015. 
 
 Fans streaming in through the gates at DLF G&CC will be hoping the streak continues. Failing that, they’ll be happy with an exciting Sunday finish.
 
 
