He landed a job as a professional illustrator without an art-school background. And his own experiences gave him the courage to foray into direction without the technical expertise that one draws from a film school.  , whose   is toasted by many, tells us how he filled up the canvas called life with rainbow colours. Excerpts:

 
 
 I was into comics and did so for a handful of publications. It had a cinematic appeal but sounds like tung-tang, dharam, dhoom etc had to be written in speech bubbles. I felt that without sound, my illustrations were incomplete. So, there was a need to get into the audio-visual medium. While growing up, I never considered cinema to be among my top 5 favourites. A film takes around a year to complete and I could make 16 sketches in a day. My two seniors, Anindyada (Chattopadhyay) and Chandrilda (Bhattacharya), asked me to consider making a film. I wrote the script of  , my first film, and the second producer whom I approached agreed to do it. He liked the way I narrated the story. While making my debut film, I realised that there were many constraints. Suppose in my script, I had written about a particular place and while doing the recce I realised it was close, but not the same. It was as if I had to fit in to a certain space, but when I first saw the film after editing, I realised this was what I wanted to do.
 
 
 
 
 Most famous filmmakers are not film school graduates, but to work as a professional illustrator, you need an art school background. Here, I was working as an illustrator without ever going to an art school. I trained under Debasish Deb and did not have a proper CV when I landed the job. I was inspired by Satyajit Ray’s illustrations and read Debasish Deb’s novel on the same. That motivated me to start doing illustrations when I was in my second year in college. This whole experience made me confident about cinema even though I lacked professional training.
 
 
 
 
 When Pendulum did not work at the box office, I was heartbroken. Everyone dreams of changing with world with films and I was no different.There were many who supported me at that time. But ultimately, what matters is the box office, and I felt cinema was not for me. My wife and I left the city for good and we went to Bagdogra to teach in a boarding school. While I would teach history, my wife would take English classes. It was then that I realised I was missing cinema in my bones. I started a film club with the schoolchildren, but was in a pathetic state. Meanwhile, I watched Masaan, and broke down on seeing it. It was as if someone made the film before me. Masaan was why I returned to Kolkata and luckily got a chance to make Loadshedding for TV.
 
 
 
 
 After Pendulum, I wrote the script of Rainbow Jelly. It was different at the beginning. Only after I went to teach at the boarding school in Bagdogra that I started seeing things in the perspective of children. One day, a child who I was mentoring said he was snubbed by a senior. We were asked not to scold children and this kid said how he felt something was stuck in his throat. When we want to cry but can’t that’s the feeling we get. It hit me very hard and I realised children were my comfort zone. I was reminded of Sandesh, Leela Majumdar, my own childhood… I rewrote the script with Ghoton as the protagonist. There’s a child in all of us. Don’t adults cry? They hide their tears. And with this film, I wanted to bring out the child in every adult.
 
 
 
 I was not associated with Zulfiqar as a second-unit director. I came to know Srijitda before Pendulum. He first called me on hearing the song, Odol bodol from Pendulum. Then he watched the film at the premiere and supported the venture. When someone helps me, I want to help him back. Before Zulfiqar, he said there were separate scenes that needed to be shot at the same time and asked me if I could help him with that. I thought this was my chance to show my gratitude for him. So, I was not the second-unit director, I pitched in for Srijitda.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Not many know that after the release of a song from Loadshedding, Shibuda ( ) called me to say how he loved it. He asked me if I had a story that I wanted to make a film on. After Loadshedding, I did Taranath Tantrik for money. That it was a Bibhutibhushan (Bandyopadhyay) story was another reason why I got interested in the project. I still remember Shibuda was shocked when I told him that I was working as a story developer in the TV venture. He said, ‘Dekho tumi parbena beshidin’. That kept me thinking. Soon I realised that I was not enjoying television. Rainbow Jelly was already taking shape.
 
 
 
 After I narrated the story to a producer, he broke down and said he would like to fund it. But the challenge was finding Ghoton. He comes from an aristocratic family and has now fallen on hard times, after the death of his scientist father. His mama, Gondaria, holds him captive in their home. I was not finding him. Moushumidi (Bhowmik), who recorded a song for the film, suggested that I audition  . When I saw him, I was not convinced. He was diagnosed with septicaemia after his birth and had expression-related issues because of neurological problems. In the script it was mentioned that every time Ghoton laughs, it resembles a rainbow. During the course of the conversation, Mahabrata laughed and I realised he was the one I was looking for. Eventually, we also took the decision of producing the film ourselves as the producer was not willing to take Mahabrata in the lead.
 
 
 
 
 Ours is a small industry and I feel one has do his bit to get noticed. Whoever I narrated the script of Rainbow Jelly, told me, ‘Ami achhi. Ki korte hobe bol’. It was the same for me till release. When I met Shrikantda (Mohta) in his office for distribution, he said the same thing. If you remain humble and focused, you are bound to get support.
 
 
 
 I wanted to deal with a universal subject. People relate ‘blunt’ with the word ‘popular’. But then, sun is popular and so is the moon. I realised innocence is equally popular. I wanted to make a children’s film. Food was an afterthought as I am a foodie myself. The dishes that I cook also reflect my various moods. Before making this film, I was reminded of mothers who cook all day without getting credit for it. But if the food is bad, everyone complains. The concept of taste came from that. I have interest in eastern philosophy and discussed the same with a senior. Then I started reading Ayurveda. It said, ‘Don’t make medicine your food. Make food your medicine’ and that inspired me. At this point, I came across the impact of various tastes on humans. For example, turmeric is considered the truth element. If there are cuts, turmeric is applied on it. It also helps battle cold. So, the effect it has on the revival of a body made me wonder if people would spill out the truth on having it. Similarly, mishti leaves a sweet taste in us and makes us calm. Sour makes one repentant, while hot excites us. I took the basics from Ayurveda and developed my story on it.
 
 
 
 
 Anurag Kashyap once said a low-budget film must never look like a low-budget film. His words inspired me. My primary concern was to make Rainbow Jelly look like a ₹1 crore-plus movie. In the film, there’s a robot like Prof Shonku’s Bidhushekhar. The art team said they would need a lakh to make it. My art budget was less than ₹1 lakh. All of us brainstormed and came up with an idea — we first took the scrap of a refrigerator and then put an archaic OTG on it. An abandoned operation theatre light became the head. Everything was built from scraps, as if we were rag-pickers. When it was finally spraypainted, it left me surprised.
 
 
 
 
 The way Mahabrata surrendered himself to me... There was a scene that needed him to throw up. I told him it had to be real and he could do anything for it. That’s what finally happened. When I saw the film, I realised he was the Ghoton that I was writing about. The film is about hope; about a boy winning over evil. Those who see the film will feel that if Ghoton can fight an impossible battle, they too can… and that nothing is impossible. 
 
 
 
