CHANDIGARH: Prevalent infrastructure and facilities at Panjab University ( ) leave a lot to be answered when it comes to catering to the needs of the differently-abled students on the campus. The disabled students say most conspicuous inadequacy is the absence of ramps at the majority of teaching departments and boys’ hostels. Sector 14 market is deemed inaccessible to the differently-abled by the absence of infrastructure.

 “There are no tactile paths for the visually-impaired and railings for support in staircases. No separate parking facility is there for the differently-abled despite the same being facilitated in the markets outside PU. There is no   inside the university auditorium too. Getting into the classrooms, even on the first floor, gets physically exhausting for us. Though e-rickshaw rides have been made free for the differently-abled, identity cards have not been issued for availing the facility. There was no formal communication from the university to make us aware of the facility.” says  , a PhD scholar at University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET).
 
 “Library lift is not wheelchair-friendly. There are no separate restrooms for the differently-abled. Auditory traffic signals need to be installed to aid the visually-impaired as per the Accessible India campaign,” says  , a PhD scholar at Centre for Human Rights and Duties (CHRD).
 
 Visually-impaired students face difficulty in classrooms as well as during their exams. “We are unable to record classroom lectures and the faculty does not provide us with the notes in an alternative format such as audio-books. Assignments are the same for all students and I face a substantial amount of difficulty while submitting them on time. No special consideration is given to the differently-abled students. University does not provide us scribes for writing our examination papers, arranging them is a difficult task for us” says Prince Wadhwa, a visually impaired student who is pursuing Master of Arts at department of Hindi.
 
 Emanual Nahar, dean student welfare ( ), said “I have already written to the executive engineer department regarding the construction of ramps as per the guidelines of  . Vice-chancellor approved the free e-rickshaw rides for the differently-abled and the students belonging to the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category. Circulars regarding this facility have been circulated to all departments. However, chairpersons have not responded with the names of both differently-abled as well as EWS students. Those who need to avail the facility can contact their respective chairpersons. No one has approached our office regarding the need for separate parking and accessible toilets.”
 
 Moreover, students say PU should formally establish Equal Opportunity Cell (EOC) on the lines of Delhi University, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU). “EOC will work as a resource centre for us and will also help us in getting funds from UGC and other government agencies.” says  , a student at the department of political science.
 
 Nahar said, “Dean of University Instruction (DUI) has already taken note of their demands related to Equal Opportunity Cell and a decision is expected to be taken in a meeting soon. We have always addressed their problems whenever we have been approached.”
 
 Moreover, these students feel that lack of infrastructure also impacts their social integration. “There are far too many steps at Student Centre, making it inaccessible for us contrary to the provisions in The Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016. Differently-abled cannot be denied the right to be socially active. PU students need to be sensitised towards differently-abled,” says Shubham Sharma, a student at the department of political science.
 
 
