MUMBAI: A two-and-a-half-year-old girl who was kidnapped from   was found within six hours and reunited with her family, thanks to the closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera installed outside her father’s bakery. The accused has been arrested.,

 The incident took place on Friday around 4.30pm when the accused, Shashikant Parab (34), spotted the toddler, Shireen Fatima, playing alone outside the bakery owned by her father Barkat Ali Shah. Parab picked up Fatima and walked all the way with her to   in Kurla. 
 
 The Saki Naka police suspect that Parab may have wanted to sexually abuse the minor as he has told them that “he is fond of kids and that is why he abducted the child”. 
 
 When Fatima’s father found the child missing, he immediately checked the CCTV camera footage and realised that she had been kidnapped. He immediately alerted the police and also circulated pictures of the accused and the child on Whatsapp groups.
 
 DCP Navinchandra Reddy swung into action and formed a team comprising inspectors Avinash   and Sunil Mane, sub-inspector   and detection staff. 
 
 Meanwhile, on reaching Kurla, the accused realised that locals there had got the message about the missing child and were looking for her. “He has told us that he got scared and abandoned the minor in a parked auto and fled,” said Reddy.
 
 “Around 11.30pm, a passerby noticed the child crying and approached her. He alerted the Kurla police station and the kid was taken there. During the search operation, we got in touch with Kurla police station, who told us they had found the child,” said Dharmadhikari. 
 
 Later, locals who had fanned out to trace the girl stumbled upon the accused who was hiding in Asalpha and handed him over to the police. “Cops and locals helped me get my daughter back unhurt. The accused should be punished,” Shah told TOI. Parab has been booked under the IPC sections 354 (outrage modesty), 363 ( ) and under the POCSO act section 12 (sexual harassment). He has been remanded in police custody till March 3.
 
 
