PATIALA: The   police here on Friday have registered a case against a retired government doctor on accusations of spreading rumours about Measles Rubella (MR) vaccination. The police claimed the accused doctor along with some members of Punjab Student Union and others allegedly issued statements on   and other social media platforms and warned people not to go for the vaccination.

 
 Patiala civil surgeon Dr Harish Malhotra lodged a complaint. According to Dr Malhotra,
 
 the retired doctor was spreading rumour andcreating panic among the residentsover thehealth campaign launched by the government. Claiming that already 60,000 students in the district were vaccinated, Dr Malhotra said,“The accusedwrongly claimed on the social media platformsthatkidswillturnimpotent if vaccinated. This is factually incorrect. We immediately lodged a complaint for spreading misleading information. The vaccination is for the betterment of the health of the children.Alarge number of students are vaccinated under this drive.” The police have registered a case. However, they are yet to arrest the accused doctor.
 
 SP (investigation) HS Virk said, “The case against the doctor is registered under various sections of the IPC. A probe has been initiated. However, no arrests have been made yet but the accused will be nabbed soon.”
 
 Dr Amar Singh Azad, who has been booked for rioting, obstructing public servant from discharging the duty, and statement conducing to public mischief, said, “I am an expert doctor with MD community medicine. It is a scientific opinion I had uploaded on social media platforms. There is a school of thought which says too much overloading the body with vaccination can prove harmful as the natural process of the body to fight is basically ‘slow’. It was with this thought that I had uploaded my opinion and it’s ridiculous to suppress one’s freedom of thought and expression in a democratic country. A large number of cases are pending in the courts of the USA over the matter of this vaccination. There is no clarity on how much effective this vaccination is.”
 
 The MR vaccination was started by the Punjab government on May 1 under the national programme on children from 9 months to15 years. Some people were spreading rumours about the medicine being already expired whereas the expiry year mentioned on the   is 2020. Health minister Brahm Mohindra had already declared that the vaccine was safe to use.
 
 
