MUMBAI: A shift in workplace locations is reducing ticket sales at CSMT, say experts.

 
  of  , a real estate research firm, said jobs had moved to Parel, Andheri, Malad and Bandra-Kurla Complex.
 
 “On the other hand, there is little growth in Nariman Point and  , which were the primary business districts not long ago,” Kapoor said. “Hence, it is not surprising that the number of people travelling from CSMT has reduced over the past five years.’’
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Transport expert Sudhir Badami said the “volumes of people arriving at CSMT has not reduced” and it is visibly still crowded. “But people have become wiser and buy tickets from some other station rather than stand in queues at CSMT,’’ he said.
 
 Transport expert A V Shenoy said BEST buses too run empty on some routes in south Mumbai and are full in the suburbs.
 
 Another contributory factor in the drop in footfalls at some big CR stations like CSMT and Dadar is the fact that the number of vehicles on the roads more than doubled, from 22 lakh in 2012-13 to 33 lakh in 2017-18. Clearly, the new road infrastructure is helping more people to opt for public or private transport to commute to work or for other purposes.
 
 Contrast this to the increase in the number of originating passengers in satellite townships north of   as people shift there in search of affordable housing. In Ulhasnagar, there has been a nearly 110% jump in passengers. In 2012-13, the number of passengers at this station was 66,363 and has now increased to 1.38 lakh.
 
  witnessed a jump of almost 46% and Badlapur of 29% in five years. Ghatkopar and   also registered 14% and 22% growth, respectively.
 
 “At Kurla, the rise is because of BKC and Kalina campus of the university,” a CR official said. “At Ghatkopar, a lot of people now travel by Metro to come to this station instead of Dadar for their onward journey by train.”
 
 Udasi said Thane and the stations beyond witness overcrowding today. “Hence, whenever services are increased, we plan to have as many services as possible from stations like Badlapur, Ambernathan, Titwala and Kalyan,” he said.
 
