GURUGRAM: The district mines department has slapped a penalty of Rs 75,000 on a plot owner for allegedly making a road in Suncity township by drilling through adjacent hills that are part of the protected  .

 The department’s crackdown came on Wednesday, a week after some local residents lodged a complaint bring to notice the violation of green norms.
 
 The offender apparently owns three-four plots, each of 60 square yard, on the edges of Sector 55-based township. Thus, he was trying to build a 15-20-metre-wide approach lane to his plot(s) from the internal road of Block F. When a TOI team visited the area on Wednesday, it found that labourers working there had already cut 60 square yard into the hills.
 
 “The plot owner was given permission to develop plot(s). However, we found that he was also constructing a road by cutting out large chunks from the   hills, which is illegally. We, therefore, imposed a Rs 75,000 fine,” said Basudev Yadav, district mining officer, Gurgaon.
 
 But, one of the labourers working at the site claimed, “The developer allotted the plots without a proper road. So, we had no option but to cut the hills and make a road. After all, we need an access to the plot(s).”
 
 A local resident, requesting anonymity, stressed the need for strict action against those destroying the hills. “There have been instances where people sought permissions from the mines department for developing plots for economically weaker sections in Suncity, and eventually encroached upon the protected areas. We demand immediate steps to check this,” he added. 
 
 Environmentalists have blamed the authorities for the continued assault on the Aravalis. “As the township lies right next to the hills, many property owners have cut deep into the hills to extend their plots illegally. It is shocking. The authorities should keep a close watch on all townships and colonies that have come up close to the Aravalis,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, a city-based environmentalist.
 
 This is the third instance, reported within a week, which highlights the blatant violation of environmental norms in the Aravalis. 
 
 TOI reported on December 30 how land sharks paved a concrete road through the Aravalis, across a distance of 2km in the city’s Bandhwari area, despite a ban on all non-forest activities in the ecologically fragile ranges. Local residents said at least 100 trees had been felled to build the road over the years.
 
 Similarly, over 150 trees were cut down to clear one-and-a-half acres near Ghata-Gwal Pahari junction along Gurgaon-Faridabad Road last week, allegedly to set up a store for selling construction material. Later, forest officials reached the spot and seized a truck that was carrying construction material for the store. They also found that two rooms and a water tank had been built illegally in the area. 
 
 
