NAGPUR: The state government has issued directives to the private medical colleges to stop postgraduate (PG) students from serving any bond period. It has also directed that these colleges cannot demand any bank guarantee from the students for the fees in later years at the time of admission.

 A government regulation (GR) dated May 19, 2018 of Directorate of Medical Education and Research ( ) says that the private unaided colleges who have been asking the PG students (MD/MS students) to serve a bond in the colleges after completes of their PG degree can no longer do so. It has prohibited the private medical colleges from continuing this practice any more as this will be considered as an illegal practice and action would be taken against the defaulters.
 
 The GR also clarifies that the colleges cannot charge more fees than one year’s fees in the form of bank guarantee as they have been doing all these years. If they charge bank guarantee it will be considered as ‘capitation fees’ which too is illegal.
 
 Dr Prakash  , the joint director, DMER told TOI that the decision to stop these two practices follows various complaints from over 15 private colleges in the state. “These colleges were blatantly violating the norms. Students from government colleges are made to serve the bond as they get education on a very subsidized rate from the government. And hence they have some liability towards the society. Nothing of this sort exists with the private colleges. They charge huge fees. Hence the students cannot be forced to serve any bond. Also just due to fear of students leaving college in middle of the course or not paying fees these colleges cannot take three years bank guarantee,” said Dr Wakode.
 
 The joint director also stated that even if the college managements now approach court their logic will not stand in the court for the these reasons.
 
 Dr  , the dean of   and Lata Mangeshkar Hospital meanwhile admitted that he was aware of the GR. But he said that he had put the issue to the management and was waiting for their response before listening to any requests of the students to relieve them of the bond. “Management is seeking legal opinion,” he said.
 
 
