CHENNAI: A closer look at continuous drop in SSLC   figures in the past 10 years reveals there has been a 10% decline in the number of students appearing through government-funded schools. 

 
 Government’s   (RMSA) programme, launched in 2009, to bolster secondary education and strengthen government schools has failed to produce the desired results despite spending crores. Neither the net enrolment figures nor the pass percentage of   students have increased after the introduction of Samacheer Kalvi (uniform education system in 2011). 
 
 
  
 On the other hand, after 2011, more than five lakh students have migrated to private matriculation schools which follow the same syllabus and have managed to put up a much better show, according to official data.
 
 Government schools lack the necessary infrastructure to retain the students enrolled at primary and middle school levels, say parents.
 
 Official data too corroborates this claim. The number of government high schools have not increased on a par with private schools. In the past five years, only 19 middle schools have been upgraded into high school.
 
 Experts also say that subject teacher vacancies are not filled for years and the same teacher is made to handle all five subjects. 
 
 Also, students are provided free education only until   under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009. Students from weaker sections admitted under the 25% RTE quota in private schools, will mostly join government schools after Class VIII, said educationist Prince Gajendra Babu. "So, naturally the atmosphere changes and academic performance will differ. Since the no detention policy does not apply for Class IX, the student will fail and eventually quit".
 
 A senior official from the   said once the new textbooks are out, there will be no need for students to migrate to private schools and the enrolment figures will stabilise in a few years. 
 
 R Vishalakshi, a   correspondent said, "Even after the revamped syllabus is out, government schools will continue to lose more students because private matriculation schools can implement it better and produce good results thereby meeting parents’ expectations".
 
 
