BHOPAL: A 57-year-old Mantralay clerk died under mysterious circumstances in police custody on Wednesday night. Anant Verma suffered cardiac arrest while being taken to Habibganj police station in a Dial 100 van along with his son. His family alleged that the cops slapped him several times and dragged him down the stairs, despite their pleas that Verma was a heart patient.

 Police deny the assault but approached the chief judicial magistrate for a judicial probe, which since begun.
 
 CSP   said Verma, a resident of HIG 114/59 in Shivaji Nagar, was an assistant grade III clerk at the revenue department in Vallabh Bhawan. Police got a call from the Vermas’ neighbours around 10.30pm that Verma and one of sons, Devesh, were creating a ruckus after getting drunk, said Singh. A patrol team went around to check, resolved the matter and returned. But at 10.45pm, neighbours again complained that the duo were back at it The two constables returned but found it beyond their control and called Dial 100 FRV for additional forces. A Dial 100 team arrived and took Verma and Devesh in custody. When they were bring taken to the police station, Anant suffered a cardiac arrest. The police dropped Devesh at the Habibganj police station gates and took Verma to JP Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival around 11.05pm.
 
 Verma’s kin allege that the cops manhandled him despite their pleas that he had undergone an angioplasty four years ago. They say the police team slapped him and dragged him down two floors. The autopsy was conducted in the presence of a judicial magistrate at Hamidia Hospital on Thursday.
 
 
 
 
 CSP Singh said that it was not for the first time that Devesh had created a ruckus after drinking. The neighbours had earlier complained about his behaviour to police, he said.
 
 Verma’s son-in-law Sondia said that the family had gathered in Shivaji Nagar to celebrate the birthday of a child in the family. Verma and Devesh had a few drinks and got into a quarrel, which was resolved and Verma went off to the second floor. Around 10.45pm, Devesh got into a quarrel with some neighbours, who called police, said Sondia. The Vermas’ kin say that six policemen detained Devesh and went upstairs to take Verma senior in custody. His wife Sushila and daughter Shiva pleaded with them that he was a heart patient, and promised to bring him to the police station in their own car. But the cops wouldn’t listen and roughed him up, they say. Sondia and Verma’s other son,  , say he saw injury marks on Verma’s chest and behind the ears.
 
 The family says they were arranging a vehicle to go to the police station around 45 minutes later, when police informed them about Verma’s death.
 
 DIG   denied the allegations of assault. Since Verma was technically in police custody at the time of his death, police applied before the court of chief judicial magistrate for a judicial probe, he said. “As per our request, judicial magistrate-first class Parth Shankar Mishra was present during the autopsy. The statements of family members will be recorded and further action will be taken on the basis of the probe report,” he said.
 
