CHENNAI: Looking to make a killing from the strike by government transport employees, private operators sent semi-deluxe and luxury buses rolling into the city to ferry commuters as MTC buses went off the roads.

 But they stymied their plans themselves by charging fares much higher than the public transit utility, putting off regular commuters and prompting them to look for other options.
 
 There were two private buses near the Thiruvanmiyur bus depot on Tuesday, but both had only a few passengers. The owner of the vehicles said he was operating six buses, which were plying from Thiruvanmiyur to Parry’s Corner,   and other places.
 
 “We’ve been operating services from Koyambedu to Vellore from Day 1 of the strike. The collection is substantial on that route; many people who come to Koyambedu board the buses,” said Amaresan, a conductor from Arcot in Vellore. Amaresan said his employer was also operating buses between Thiruvanmiyur and Koyambedu at a flat rate of Rs 10, Rs 20 and Rs 30, depending on the distance the commuter is travelling.
 
 On a semi-low floor, deluxe bus that MTC operates, the minimum fare is Rs 7, with upward slabs of Rs 13, Rs 17 and Rs 23 based on distance. Private operators, however, follow no such concept: the fares are random. “This has led to commuters opting for share autos,” Amaresan admitted.
 
 Parveen Travels managing director A Afzal said private buses were not well received by city commuters although on Tuesday nearly 200 such buses plied in the city and suburbs.
 
 Private operators are not returning the change and rounding off the fares, said some commuters. Besides, these buses halt at random to pick up passengers. “Slowly the MTC crews are reporting to duty at Thiruvanmiyur. Almost all buses out of Besant Nagar are being operated,” said K Rajasekar, a commuter.
 
 A senior MTC official said private buses were not ferrying MTC pass-holders.
 
 “This is one of the main reasons for their poor patronage. Most of MTC’s commuters use monthly passes,” he said. “Private firms do not accept the passes so commuters are looking for alternatives. They are unlikely to travel by private buses is the operators charge exorbitant fares.”
 
 
