NAGPUR: The centres after the   paper on Friday were filled with happy faces as the paper turned out to be easier than their expectations. It was the third paper of the ongoing HSC board exams and the students were evidently relieved.

 ”The paper was straightforward and hence would be very scoring for the students. All the questions were known to the students and those who had practised well would score decent marks”, said  , an economics teacher from G.S. College of Commerce and Economics. It was recommended to the students to solve previous years’ question papers as a practice. “Almost half of the questions on the paper were predictable because students had solved last years’ sample papers. It was definitely helpful in todays’ exam,” Kahate added.
 
 The students were ecstatic as they believed the passing percentage would be higher this time. A student named Manvi Dubey said, “The paper was an easy nut to crack. I had prepared for a tougher fight as the sample test-series papers were difficult than this. Almost every question on the paper was known to me. I am hoping for a great result”. Her colleague Srichand Gadphele also found the paper to be easy enough. “Our teachers had provided with a set of important questions to us and it definitely helped me in todays’ paper. The only glitch in an otherwise smooth set-up was one question where we were asked to solve it in a geometric way. Rest was all good and I am hoping for a decent score”.
 
 Another student,   was happy with her time management. “I was able to solve the entire paper within the time span, which left me feeling quite satisfied. I had practised rigorously for todays’ exam and I am content that it finally paid off”, she said. There were a few sections of the paper which were tough for the students. Kahate added, “The questions of Agreement and Disagreement were asked in a tricky way so that could have been a problematic area. Also, the question asked on ‘Difference’ could also have been tough, although everything was from the syllabus itself”.
 
 Sahil Kakhane, a commerce student said, “I found the paper to be quite challenging. I was expecting easy long answer type questions, but they were difficult to solve. Also I fumbled with the calculation part of the paper, which was a major setback”. However his colleagues   and   found the paper to be surprisingly easy. “I was well versed with the theory part of the subject, which actually helped me in solving the writing MCQs. I am satisfied with my paper”, Thakur said.
 
 
