BENGALURU: India has clocked the second-largest number of mobile app downloads, overtaking the US and trailing only China, according to a report from App Annie - a third-party agency which collates data on apps. 

  This data is inclusive of Apple's iOS Store, Google Play and third-party Android stores. App usage grew rapidly in India, driven by the introduction of subsidised, unlimited 4G access by Reliance Jio in September 2016, the report noted. India saw a growth of about 215% while US saw a de-growth of 5% during 2017. 
 
  India, which is seen as an emerging market in the app economy, came on top of the list for highest monthly average number of apps used and installed. On an average, Indians use more than 40 apps in a month, while having a total base of close to 80 apps. On this parameter, China and Brazil are behind India. 
 
  Incidentally, the report threw light on consumer spending behaviour of Indians with regards to mobile apps. Despite the popular perception that Indians shy away from paying for in-app purchases, dating app Tinder and over-the-top ( ) entertainment platform Netflix topped the chart as far as spends on apps go. 
 
 Chinese video app   and   are the other top apps where Indians have spent significantly in 2017, the data in the report pointed out. Star India-owned   is another OTT player in the top 10 apps here with high consumer spends. The report did not specify the amount consumers spent on these apps throughout last year. 
 
  The data indicates an interesting trend where Indians are starting to pay for various apps. The more mature a market is, the higher chances of monetisation, the report added. For example, China is much ahead of India in terms of monetisation like the US, the UK and Japan, among others. 
 
  Tinder, which launched in 2012, started its India office - the first outside the US - in 2016. In India, with the rise of smartphone usage and cheaper data, multiple startups have ventured into online dating. Some of the other prominent names in this space include TrulyMadly, Floh and Woo. Netflix competes with the likes of Hotstar and Amazon Prime Video. Gaming, which sees a higher number of paying users traditionally than other segments, saw Teen Patti emerging as the top gaming app in India in terms of consumer spending. 
 
 
