Bengaluru: Juggy Marwaha, former India lead of co-working company  , is re-joining   (JLL) as executive managing director for its Indian business, the independent property consultancy said.

 Marwaha, who joined WeWork last year after nearly four years with JLL as its managing director for south India, will join towards the end of this month and will continue to be based out of Bengaluru.
 
 “I am delighted to welcome Juggy back to the firm and his second coming provides us with a remarkable advantage in the India realty space - primarily due to his exemplary credentials, client centric approach and focus on building profitable businesses,”  , CEO and country head,   said on Monday in a statement.
 
 Marwaha, often regarded in the Bengaluru real estate market as a prolific deal maker, struck some major deals in his previous stint at JLL. Under his leadership, the company clinched some marquee deals which include the   campus in Cessna Business Park, Siemens-Prestige land deal and JW Mariott among others.
 
 Marwaha, who has more than 18 years in the real estate industry, will report to Nair. During his year long stint at WeWork, he expanded the New York-based company’s footprint in India to over 1.5 million sqft. TOI reported in October that he quit WeWork in a surprise move amid speculation that the startup, valued at $20 billion, wants a tighter grip over the domestic operations.
 
 “JLL is just like home and it feels great to be back. It is the clearly the Firm of choice amongst its peers and regarded extremely highly as a professional, transparent & ethical organisation by both industry and clients, alike. I am inspired to be a part of this winning team under JLL’s new leadership, and look forward to my new role,” Marwaha said.
 
 JLL said his appointment is in line with the company’s ‘Beyond’ strategy to achieve the next phase of its growth in the country, wherein key senior talent is being inducted to complement its already strong leadership. JLL had earlier announced appointments of industry veterans from GE and Johnson & Johnson in senior roles.
 
