MADURAI: The Madras high court Madurai bench on Wednesday directed the regional passport officer in Madurai to file counter to a case filed by “Iron lady”   demanding passport. This was to enable her to attend a convention in Geneva where she was scheduled on human rights violations against minority Tamil people in Sri Lanka and on the violation of rights of children in other parts of the world. 

 When her case came up for hearing before justice P  , her counsel told the court that the petitioner, a civil rights activist, had married Desmond Anthony Bellarmine and settled down at Kodaikanal in Dindigul district. She continued to raise her voice for children and women in her state and had been invited to address international organisations outside the country. Though she had applied for passport on October 6 last year along with necessary documents, the passport authority had not yet provided it. When asked about it, the passport officer informed her that the Kodaikanal police were yet to submit the police verification report, the counsel said.
 
 The counsel also said that as she had been protesting against the government, a criminal case was registered against her for attempting to commit suicide in 2015. The same was pending before the chief judicial magistrate court in Imphal West, Manipur. However, the competent criminal court on February 29, 2016 had acquitted her. 
 
 After verifying her antecedents and the cases lodged against her, the superintendent of police of   district, Manipur, also issued a certificate on December 23, 2016 saying that no criminal case was pending against her. Thus, she did not have any disqualification under the provisions of the Passport Act, 1967c.
 
 It was in this context that she was invited to the convention in Geneva. Hence it was necessary to issue direction to the Kodaikanal police to submit the report to the passport officer and direct to issue passport to her, the counsel said. Following this, the court sought a counter from the passport authority and the police. The case has been adjourned to March 21.
 
 
