MADURAI: Passport verification in Madurai district is set to become paperless with the inauguration of the ‘mPassport Police App.’ From now, policemen will carry a tablet installed with the mobile application instead of files to gather the details of the applicant. The new method will make the process quicker and also save a whopping five tonnes of paper a year, according to Regional Passport Officer (RPO) T Arun Prasad.

  IG Shailesh Kumar Yadav inaugurated the facility at a function held in Madurai rural police office at Surveyor Colony, in the presence of district superintendent of police N Manivannan and the RPO. The facility will come into being in a week’s time.
 
 The new facility will cut down the delay in postal services and bring down the time taken for the procedure to 13-14 days. At present, it takes 17 days in an average and sometimes even 20-30 days. The ministry of external affairs however mandates that it must be completed in 21 days. The RPO said that they aim to bring the procedure further down to 12 days.
 
 Shailesh Kumar Yadav said that police personnel have been identified from each station and trained. The applicant’s details would be collected through the tablet and sent to the passport office.  , a constable from Othakadai police station was the first to receive the tablet from the South Zone IG. 
 
 RPO Arun Prasad also said that they receive three lakh applications a year nd 99 per cent of them are issued with passports. Anywhere between three to five tonnes of paper, being supplied by the government will be saved. This will help in conserving the environment, he added. 
 
 The RPO also said that the police units in the southern districts have been doing exceptionally well when it comes to passport verification. In fact, South Zone is one of the best police units in the category in the country.
 
 Currently, Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) sends the application to the police headquarters, where it is disbursed to the concerned police station. The file is then carried by a police constable and the required details are filled. The file is later cleared by the concerned police chief before it reaches the PSK.
 
 In the new facility, the concerned PSK will scan the applications and send it to the concerned police personnel’s tablet. Once the details are keyed in, it will reach the PSK after clearance from the police chief. 
 
 
