PANAJI/MAPUSA/PONDA: The high-voltage   assembly elections have triggered an   of Kannadigas from Goa to their homeland to exercise their franchise, disrupting the supply of some staples and affecting the construction sector and small businesses.

 After 1061, skilled and unskilled labourers and even professionals from Karnataka have propped up the state’s manpower requirement. But with a crucial   scheduled in their native land, maids, drivers, plumbers, and construction and corporate   alike have all departed to their homes in Belagavi, Hubballi and Bagalkot among other places. 
 
 Karnataka-bound buses were packed to capacity as many found it hard to find a seat on Friday. This is despite the fact that a large population had already departed to the neighbouring state a few days earlier. 
 
 Several chartered buses left from Chimbel, Dabolim, Vasco, Ponda and other areas for destinations as far as Bijapur and Bellary, sources said.
 
 The absence of the regular bakers selling milk and bread on two-wheelers, fisherwomen moving door-to-door on foot and maids employed at a number of homes caused a crisis of sorts. Nira Lamani, a fisherwoman from Hubballi, catering to households in Porvorim for many years, was one who didn’t want to miss the opportunity to cast her vote.
 
 “We haven’t got our daily bread delivered for a week and now, we have to also procure our fish from a mobile van 2km away,” Reshma Shenoy, a Porvorim resident said.
 
 A Vasco-based family with a senior member recovering from a surgery, will have to share the household chores till their maid returns, possibly next week after the results are declared. The maid extracted an advance and left with her family for Bagalkot by train.
 
 By far, the construction industry has been the worst-hit by the exodus. Essential service providers such as plumbers, masons, tile fitters and carpenters have left home with an advance payment from their employers to cast their vote. A contractor said the shortage of labour could delay completion schedules and that due to the rise in demand, other migrant workers were demanding higher wages. 
 
 In Ponda, the rokhda bazaar at Shahpur bus stand, which otherwise teems with migrant construction workers awaiting daily wage orders, wore a deserted look on Friday. “A majority of the construction workers are from Karnataka. I had to engage others to keep the work going,” Mohan Naik, a civil contractor, said. 
 
 After the thunderstorm on Thursday, a Porvorim housewife looked in vain for a labourer to clear the fallen branches and debris around her house. “We were told that most labourers had left for their native places,” she said. Work at a few project sites for laying cables and pipelines was also hit. “Finding workers to clean wells, wood cutting and other jobs is difficult these days,” a Pernem resident said.
 
 Vegetable and fruit stalls in Panaji, however, will remain relatively unaffected by Saturday’s elections in Karnataka. Even though a majority of the vendors hail from Karnataka, particularly Sonur, and will visit the state just for a day to cast their vote, they will have either a friend or relative to man their stalls during their absence. “The increasing heat has threatened to rot our stocks if not cleared, so keeping our stalls shut is not an option,” a vendor said.
 
 
