NOIDA: National badminton coach and former All England champion   has backed his protégé   for more success in a tough 2018 calendar, singling out his "greatest quality" of being able to adapt to all conditions as the hallmark for a potentially pathbreaking career.

 
 
 
 
 The Dronacharya awardee visited the TOI office on Monday and spoke exclusively to us about Srikanth's record-setting achievements in 2017 which included four Superseries titles - the most by any Indian badminton player ever - and a career-high No 2 in the BWF rankings. 
 
 
 
 
 
 "Yes, 2017 was a great year but the critical tournaments and important events are in 2018. It's very important for me that India does well in the four important tournaments of the year, which for me are the All-England Championship,  , World Championships and the Asian Games," he told TOI. "At the end of the day, these are tournaments were performances really matter. I believe that what we've seen in 2017 is that Srikanth is capable of fantastic results. What we need to do at is ensure that at the big events, he does just that."
 
 
  
  
 
 Reminded of two-time Olympic champion and five-time world champion  's comment that Srikanth is the most complete player of the modern men's game, and Gopichand nodded his head in agreement. 
 
 "I think it's great to have someone of the calibre of Lin Dan comment the way he did, so it just goes to show the immense capability and strengths that Srikanth has in his all-round game. It's definitely true, what Lin Dan has said. I've seen very few players with the kind of quality he has. On a fast court and in windy conditions, I think he's one of the best players in the world," he said. 
 
 According to Gopichand, who has worked with Srikanth since he was a young boy, his protégé has a superior game which, at the age of 24, could set him on the road for immense success. "He needs to develop an all-round game in conditions which are slower and he has to adapt to a more strength and fitness-oriented rally. The greatest quality which I see in him is his ability to adapt to the conditions. It will take time to have a complete game which will produce results in all conditions in the world, but at his age he definitely has the best prospects," said Gopichand.
 
 
