1. In Kerala, the government doctors joined private doctors in observing the medical bandh by boycotting one hour of their OP duty. Only the emergency wings of the private hospitals are working today.

 2. The strike has left large number of patients in the lurch, as doctors stayed off duty across the state. Patients who had taken prior appointment have gathered at private hospitals and are refusing to go without seeing doctors. The hospitals are trying to get doctors to see such patients in the afternoon to ensure that there is no commotion.
 
 3. "I was being examined by a doctor and mid way, other doctors came and pulled my doctor away. I am now waiting for the doctor to return. This is very cruel," said a woman at the state-run General Hospital.
 
 4. The Kerala doctors took out a march to the Raj Bhavan as part of their protest. More than 3,000 doctors from 14 districts staged a dharna in front of the Governor's house.
 
 5. In Mumbai, the   strike call has got a lukewarm response with many OPDs functioning normally. Several general physicians too have kept their clinics open.
 
 6. Few hospitals have asked their doctors not to participate in the strike, leading to differences with the IMA management.
 
 7. In Karnataka’s Hubli, OPD services in Vivekananda General Hospital are closed from 6 AM till 6 PM today.
 
 8. Former president of the IMA KK Agarwal on Tuesday said that the bill would open gateway for future corruption.
 
 9. “The central government has left us no option but to call it a 'black day' in the history of medical profession. 'No to NMC' is a slogan for medical community as well as every patient” says Parthiv Sanghvi of IMA.
 
 10. Health Minister Jagat Prakash Nadda in Rajya Sabha today maintained that the NMC bill was beneficial to medical profession. Nadda said he held talks with IMA members to dispel their doubts about the bill.
 
 11. Naresh Agarwal of Samajwadi Party said many patients have died due to the strike called to oppose the bill.
 
 12. Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said the government should take initiative to end the strike.
 
