AHMEDABAD: City crime branch late on Tuesday night arrested five men, for the of   an  ,  , near   on March 16. While three persons were nabbed from Rajasthan and one from Ahmedabad, Ashu Yadav, who actually shot Patel in the face, was arrested from Khanderpur in Uttar Pradesh.

 Crime branch sources said they recovered a country-made 7.65mm calibre pistol and two 8mm calibre country-made guns from the accused. “We also recovered diamonds and pearls. Although the valuation procedure is under way, the value of the goods robbed could be worth about Rs 40 lakh.
 
 Senior crime branch officials said a team led by inspector Kiran Chaudhary met stiff resistance in Khanderpur, as a mob gathered while they were trying to make the arrest, ostensibly thinking that UP police was there “for an encounter”.
 
 “We handled the situation calmly and with the help from the UP special task force arrested Yadav. He being brought to Ahmedabad,” said JCP J K Bhatt.
 
 The others arrested for the murder-robbery — which took place just outside the Gujarat Vidyapith, the university established by Mahatma Gandhi — are Kirit Chauhan, Rajnish Kanojia, Raju Marwadi and Prakash Prajapati. Pradeep Yadav, Mohammed Shakil and Maqsood Rana, all from Khanderpur in UP, are still on the run, said DCP Deepan Bhadran.
 
 Arvind Patel, an employee of Ambalal Hargovandas Angadia, was shot by robbers who came on three motorcycles, while he was waiting for a bus to north Gujarat with other angadia workers.
 
 Ex-employee tipped off robbers
 
 Raju Marwadi got the tip about an angadia worker carrying goods worth lakhs from Prakaah Prajapati, who worked for one such anagdia firm in the past. “They first recced the movements of these workers near Gujarat Vidhyapith and then Kirit Chauhan and Rajnish Kanojiya about a possible robbery opportunity. A week before the incident, Chauhan and Kanojiya, who are from Faizabad in UP, called Pradeep Yadav, Mohammed Shakil, Maqsood Rana and Ashu Yadav to execute the heist. They stayed at Kirit Chauhan’s house on SP Ring Road and also recced the spot,” said additional DCP Rajdeepsinh Jhala.
 
 “On the morning of March 16 at 7am, the accused waited on two motorcycles near Gujarat Vidhyapith. “After the angadia workers arrived by MUV and were waiting for the bus, Ashu Yadav and Maqsood rode near them on the bike and first fired in the air to disperse the crowd. They then tried to snatch Patel’s bag. As Patel resisted, Ashu shot him in the face, killing him on the spot. They then got into a car waiting near Usmanpura and went to Chauhan’s house to split the booty,” added Jhala.
 
 Absence of Chauhan, Kanojia was first clue
 
 Bhadran said inspector Bhavesh Roziya and S L Chaudhary got a tip-off about absence Chauhan and Kanojia, who have a criminal record in the area. We tracked their cell phones and reached the accused,” added Bhadran.
 
 Were to pay Rs 1lakh for the tip-off
 
 Crime branch sources Prakash Prajapati, who now drives auto but earlier worked at an angadia firm was promised Rs 1lakh by the eight accused.
 
