JAIPUR: Students heading to Jaipur for admissions in colleges/universities here are searching for   that are ‘safe’. Facilities like air conditioned rooms, three meals a day and central location have taken a back seat, as the prime concern for parents now is safety of their wards. Things like CCTVs, a good past record and restricted entry and exit at the hostels are being preferred by the parents.

 Neelam Rishi, a class XII student from   has shortlisted a hostel in Raja Park. Her father accompanied her for two days in Jaipur and looked for 15 hostels before they fixed a hostel in   for a simple reason that it has CCTVs at all entry points and outside the main gate. “I am yet to finalise my college but my hostel has been fixed. Other than CCTV, my father liked the fact that Jawahar Nagar police station is walking distance and auto rickshaw stand is outside the main gate,” said Rishi.
 
 City has 23 universities both private and public along with 35 engineering colleges and fast coming up are coaching centres. It attracts thousands of students from within and outside the state. It has created a vast demand for hostels in the city. Areas like Malviya Nagar, Raja Park, Bani Park, Mansarovar, Sitapura has emerged has hub for hostels. The limited availability of hostels makes the deal costlier after college admissions. On an average, Rs 5000 is minimum in the city for single occupancy and it becomes Rs 8000 including food.
 
 Bracing the hot sun,  , a resident of Ajmer who is looking for a hostel for his son studying in an engineering college said, “I am planning to shift my son from a PG which has students of his age and class. I have observed his disconnect from studies is a reason that I am looking for a hostel which doesn’t have students from engineering background.”
 
 Kulbhushan Singh, who owns PGs in Vaishali Nagar, Bani Park, Raja Park and   said, “Nowadays, parents prefer a place which is under surveillance and guarded by watchman. We have also improved the security apparatus by removing tea stall outside one of our hostels.”
 
 
