CHENNAI: Central Bureau of Investigations (CBI), which was waiting for months to arrest Karti Chidambaram in the INX Media case, on Wednesday morning had teams on the ready to apprehend him at the Bengaluru and Chennai airports on his arrival from London.

 They, much like the Directorate of Enforcement which has been doing a parallel investigation on the ‘dirty money’ part of the case, had been prepared for the moment for more than a month, an investigating officer said.
 
 CBI officers knew they had a small window of opportunity to arrest Karti, 46, the son of former Union finance minister  , and whisk him off to Delhi, obtain a court direction for his custody and interrogate him in connection with the probe.
 
 Ateam of CBI investigators was waiting at the airport when a British Airways flight from   landed at the Chennai airport at 7.30am after being delayed by two hours. The sleuths arrested Karti shortly after he disembarked, as he approached the immigration counters on the first floor, and, after holding him in a secluded room in the airport for around two hours, put him on board a 10.45am Jet Airways flight to Delhi.
 
 “We did not issue a lookout notice for him, but we had asked immigration officials to keep us posted about his flight schedule,” the officer said. Karti went quietly with the sleuths after the team swiftly surrounded and detained him, seizing his cellphone and electronic communication devices, he said.
 
 Supporters waiting for Karti outside the airport realised that something was amiss but, by the time they contacted his family, the CBI officers had him on board the aircraft bound for Delhi.
 
 The enforcement agencies had registered cases against him last May and had carried out searches of Karti’s houses and offices in at least four cities.
 
 The arrest of Karti on Wednesday followed the ED’s recent detention of his chartered accountant S Bhaskaran.ED officials are also likely to formally arrest Karti soon. Karti, anticipating arrest, planned to move the Madras high court for bail. ED officers, meanwhile, had filed a caveat with the court asking it not to pass an order on a bail petition by Karti without making them party to the case.
 
 AChennai airport police officer said the CBI refused to allow anyone access to the room in the airport where they detained Karti before departing on the flight to Delhi. “CBI sleuths had the room under their control and allowed only the CISF inspector-general of police to enter the room,” he said.
 
 He said the CBI officers, who obtained permission from the of Bureau of Civil Aviation Security to take the highprofile detainee in their custody by flight to Delhi, took Karti to the airport lounge a short while before leading him to the Jet Airways aircraft. The officers had blocked tickets for the flight hours earlier, another officer said.
 
 Immigration officials said Karti did not appear to be ruffled when CBI officers informed him that he was under arrest.
 
 “He calmly cooperated with the CBI investigators,” an immigration official said, adding that Karti requested the officials to allow him to call family members and his lawyer.
 
