AMRITSAR: After the incident of a woman pilgrim embracing Islam and marrying a Muslim in Lahore and another pilgrim going missing from a   (group of pilgrims) in Pakistan, Sikh religious groups in India have decided to not allow any single woman between the age group of 15 and 50 and clean-shaven men to accompany them during pilgrimage to the neighbouring country.

 Kiran Bala of Garhshankar town of Hoshiarpur and Amarjit Singh, from a village in Amritsar were part of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) Sikh jatha that had gone to Pakistan to celebrate Baisakhi in April this year. While Kiran reportedly embraced Islam and married a Pakistani nation in Lahore, Amarjit went missing during the pilgrimage.
 
 The recent decision was taken in a meeting of  , including Nankana Sahib Sikh Teerath Yatri Jatha, Bhai Mardana Yadgari Kirtan Darbar Society, Sain Mian Mir International Foundation, Haryana Gurdham Committee, Khalra Mission Committee and Jammu Kashmir Sikh Yatra Committee, that take Sikh jathas to Pakistan on various religious occasions.
 
 “Two Sikh jathas are going to Pakistan in June, first on the occasion of martyrdom anniversary of Guru Arjan Dev on June 8 and then on the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh on June 21. Pakistan’s Evacuee Trust Property Board ( ) has already told us to not bring single women and   along with the jatha. We took decision accordingly and have decided to not allow any women between the age group of 15 and 50 to go alone for pilgrimage to Pakistan,” said president of Nankana Sahib Sikh Teerath Yatree Jatha Swaran Singh Gill while talking to TOI on Monday.
 
 Harpal Singh Bhullar, president of Bhai Mardana Yadgari Kirtan Darbar Society, said ETPB deputy secretary Imran Gondal had called him to inform to not bring single women and non-Sikhs along with the jatha. About the non-Sikhs having faith in Sikhism and aspiring to go on pilgrimage to Pakistan to pay obeisance at the gurdwaras, he said, “We will have no option, but to refuse to accept their passports of non Sikhs for applying for visa,” said Bhullar.
 
 Shiromani Akali Dala (Delhi) president Paramjit Singh Sarna said they would allow a single women only if someone in the jatha would take written responsibility. However, he said, non-Sikhs having immense faith in Sikhism could be taken on pilgrimage.
 
 SGPC member and former general secretary Kiranjot Kaur reacted on the decision saying, “It doesn’t make sense barring a single woman aged between 15 and 50. I should have been for both sexes.”
 
 She said SGPC’s jatha advisory had always been advising to not allow single men or women in the pilgrimage to Pakistan. “It causes much inconvenience to single persons since there is always a scarcity of rooms, the pilgrims are divided into groups of five to 10 persons and are given one room for each group,” she said, adding that SGPC had itself been flouting the already established rules. 
 
 
