New Delhi: Bucking the conventional tactics of boosting the party’s morale,   president   has initiated a new grassroots exercise to engage with booth-level workers in poll-bound states. From phone calls by Gandhi seeking workers’ views on state-pecific issues to video messages on politically important events, the Congress president is directly engaging with workers to give them a sense of belonging and to salvage votes in states where it has lost badly in the previous assembly elections.
 
  The experiment has started in Rajasthan, which will face elections in November.
  
  When Gandhi picked up the phone and randomly called Gatui in Mudasail village of Ghatol reserved constituency, the 34-year-old party worker thought it was a hoax call. But the caller was deeply interested in knowing the issues of her constituency and how the party was faring and what needed to be done.
  
  Later in the day, the state unit president Sachin Pilot spoke with her and that is when she really believed that the Congress president had called her. Like Gatui, there were others like Jameel in Bhaunri village of Kaman Assembly segment and Ajaypal in Anupgarh reserved constituency who received such calls.
  
  This is a new form of direct engagement that Gandhi is trying. The workers are chosen randomly. Pilot said, “The workers are enthused beyond imagination. This is the first time they have ever spoken to the Congress president.” The move follows a state-wide initiative by the newly-carved out Data Analytics department of the Congress to connect the party workers.
  
  Praveen Chakravarty, who heads the department, said, “The worker needed to send a text message with his voter id card number to register with Congress. We have a database of at least five workers in each of the 45,000 booths in Rajasthan.” It is this digital database which is the backbone of the initiative. As workers registered with the Congress, they received a video message from Gandhi welcoming them.
  
  This was followed by tailor-made video messages for youth, women and farmers personally pushed by Gandhi. For Pilot, this data-push is a big fillip in a state where Congress suffered a humiliating defeat in 2013 when it was reduced to 21seats in the 200-member Assembly. “It is a scientifically run system which helps us as the Congress president directly engages and talks about the party’s narrative,” said Pilot.
  
  After Rajasthan, a similar exercise has been initiated by Praveen Chakravarty in BJP-ruled Chhattisgarh, where Congress has been out of power for 15 years. In the 2013 elections, there was less than one percentage difference in the vote percentage of BJP and Congress. The party plans to take the initiative across the country before the 2019 elections.
  
