CHANDIGARH: They are the real landowners, but are landless because of the restrictions on their property for 118 years. Life is unfair for the original inhabitants of the 15 villages in Mohali district which fall under Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) of 1900. Because of this British-era law, these villages, with a population of about 10,000, have lived with curbs on their land, while those at the helm, and with money, have bought vast tracts at throwaway prices and constructed hotels and farmhouses, TOI has found out while talking to a cross-section of people.

 Money is a problem too. Though Section 7 of the PLPA envisions compensation for landowners, most of them don’t even know such a clause exists. Gurmail Singh, the sarpanch of Paraul village, which neighbours Siswan, said many locals sold their land at cheap rates because its value did not rise due to the restrictions in place and people were not allowed to construct on it. “The CM’s house is under-construction nearby, but he must have got permission because he heads the state government,” said Gurmail.
 
 Paraul is a village located about 15km from Chandigarh. It falls in the plains abutting the lower Shivaliks. However, given its ecologically sensitive surroundings, 200 acres under it continue to be under PLPA. According to Gurmail, the entire area north of the Kurali-Chandigarh Road has not been developed. “It is all because of PLPA. Thankfully, we are at least allowed to till the land,” he said.
 
 The villagers, he said, are not allowed to use sand from the local choe even for public purposes, while nearby brick kilns carry out sand mining without any hitch at night. “Now our area has also been kept out of Mullanpur Master Plan 2008-2031,” he said.
 
 The Punjab and Haryana high court, in orders on February 8, 2017, ordered the state government to award compensation for three years, from 2015 to 2017, to residents of the 15 villages whose lands fall under PLPA.
 
 Vibhav Jain, an advocate in the Punjab and Haryana high court, said the Act clearly stated in Sections 7, 14, and 15 that the deputy commissioner would call for claims, but that had not been done again when a fresh notification was issued under PLPA on February 3 this year. “We had approached the court and expressed fears about it,” he said. “The court had reiterated the state government to follow its orders a day before the notification was issued.”
 
 When contacted, Mohali deputy commissioner Gurpreet Sapra said they had issued a notice, calling for claims about 10 days ago. “The notice has called for claims within the next four months. Though the time limit is usually three months, we wanted to be sure that people get ample time to file for their claims,” she said.
 
 A senior officer in the forest department claimed a land mafia had taken over the lands falling under PLPA, and people seeking the removal of PLPA had vested interests. “The state has one of the lowest forest covers in the country already, and we cannot afford to let haphazard urbanisation eat into these areas too,” he said.
 
 The forest officer’s apprehensions find weight in the Mullanpur Master Plan 2008-2031. “There is encroachment of unauthorized developments within the environmentally sensitive hilly region and within the designated PLPA zone. Although no development is allowed in that area, some developments already exist in two villages, Sultanpur and Paraul,” reads a section of the master plan that deals with threats to the ecology of the area.
 
 Even the master plan proposes an environment impact assessment (EIA) of urbanisation of the area. “Rapid urbanisation may result in massive environment degradation if it is not carefully carried out. This threat can be overcome by conducting EIA for all the environmentally sensitive areas. Hence, to pre-empt such situations, greater development emphasis will be placed on areas not deemed environmentally sensitive,” he said.
 
 Of all the villages in Mohali under PLPA, Choti Badi Nagal is among the remotest. Of the 2,912 acres with the village, 2,468 acres fall under Section 4 of PLPA.  , a resident of   village, said many people had opened businesses in the area. “But almost all of them bought land from us. The compensation is our right. Even people who have sold their land should be compensated for not being paid the years before.”
 
 
