KOLKATA: Kolkata Knight Riders kept their winning momentum going, knocking Rajasthan Royals out of the   with a 25-run victory in the Eliminator at the Eden Gardens here on Wednesday. The Dinesh Karthik-led side will now play Sunrisers Hyderabad in Qualifier 2 on Friday for a berth in Sunday’s final. Much like their last match here, RR once again lost their grip on the match after having the upper hand early on.

 
 
 
 
 Spinners K Gowtham, Shreyas Gopal and Ish Sodhi enjoyed bowling on a wicket that was on the slower side as   batsmen struggled to get going after RR skipper Ajinkya Rahane won the toss and put their rivals in. But Karthik once again came to his side’s rescue, first steadying the innings with young Subhman Gill and then opening up with   to help his side finish at a challenging total of 169/7.RR, in spite of making a good start, lost steam midway and managed only 144/4.
 
 Shane Warne was not at the Eden Gardens on Wednesday to watch RR spin a web around KKR batsmen. But the RR bowling mentor followed the exploits of the three spinners from Melbourne and tweeted: “Spin to win boys. So proud back here in Melbourne of my @rajasthanroyals spinners.” However, KKR spinners too responded well in spite of Sunil Narine conceding 39 runs off his four overs. Piyush Chawla and Kuldeep Yadav kept things tight and also picked up vital wickets to put RR under pressure.
 
 Some great death bowling by Andre Russell and Prasidh Krishna ensured KKR romped home, much to the delight of the packed house. Rahane led the foundation with a 41-ball 46 runs and shared a 62-ball second-wicket stand with Sanju Samson. But once the latter perished for 50 (38b; 4x4, 2x6), being caught at long-on by Javon Searles in Chawla’s last over, none of the other batsmen managed to up the tempo.
 
 Gowtham gave RR the right start, picking up Sunil Narine and KKR vice-captain Robin Uthappa in consecutive overs. KKR were reduced to 51 for four, losing Nitish Rana and Chris Lynn soon after. But youngster Gill gave good support to his skipper as the duo rotated the strike to keep the scoreboard moving. The fifth-wicket stand of 55 runs in 38 balls between the two set the stage for Russell to finish off in a flourish. The West Indies opened with a huge six off Jofra Archer over long-on and hit four more to remain unbeaten on 49 off 25 balls.
 
 Karthik finally fell for a well-made 52 off 38 balls with the help of four fours and two sixes, trying to accelerate the run rate being caught his counterpart Rahane who took a well-judged catch running backwards from the edge of the ring at cover.
 
 
