NEW DELHI: The electoral bond scheme for political donations is a significant improvement over cash-based, non-transparent practices where the donor, donee and quantum of donations and the nature of expenditure are all undisclosed, finance minister Arun Jaitley said in a blog on Sunday.

 
 “As against total non-transparency in the present system of cash donations, some element of transparency would be introduced in as much as all donors declare in their accounts the amount of bonds that they have purchased and all parties declare the quantum of bonds that they have received,” said Jaitley.
 
 Defending the scheme against criticism that it does not do enough, the finance minister said, “How much each donor has distributed to a political party would be known only to the donor. This is necessary because once this disclosure is made, past experience has shown, donors would not find the scheme attractive and would go back to the less-desirable option of donating by cash”.
 
 The finance minister, who unveiled the scheme in Parliament recently, said the choice is between the existing system of cash donations which involves unclean money and one that gives the option of operating through the banking system.
 
 “While all three methods involve clean money, the first two are totally transparent and the   scheme is a substantial improvement in transparency over the present system of no-transparency,” Jaitley said.
 
 The finance minister said that most political groups seem fairly satisfied with the present arrangement and would not mind this status-quo to continue. “The effort, therefore, is to run down any alternative system which is devised to cleanse the political funding mechanism,” he said.
 
 Better funding is necessary as elections cost money and there are expenses year around by way of offices and staff. “Besides expenditure of individual candidates, political parties have to spend money on election campaigns, publicity, tours, travels and election-related establishments. These expenditures run into hundreds of crores. Yet there has not been a transparent funding mechanism of the political system,” he said.
 
 Jaitley said a major step was taken during the first NDA government led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee with the Income Tax Act being amended to allow donations made to political parties to be treated as expenditure and give a tax advantage to the donor.
 
 But donors remained reluctant to disclose details for fear of consequences from political opponents. “The law was further amended during the   government to provide for “pass through” electoral trust so that the donors would park their money with the electoral trusts which, would distribute the same to various political parties. Both these reforms taken together resulted in only a small fraction of the donations coming in form of cheques,” said Jaitley.
 
 While donations made online or through cheques remain an ideal method, these have not been popular as they involve disclosure of the donor’s identity. “The life of the bond would be only 15 days. A bond can only be encashed in a pre-declared account of a political party. Every party in its returns will have to disclose the amount of donations it has received through electoral bonds to the  ," he said, adding that the government is willing to consider all suggestions to cleanse political funding.
 
