CHENNAI: The city traffic police have cut a hip-hop music video. That’s right. A hard-grooving video for a song about   — wear a helmet, fasten your seatbelt, don’t speak into a cellphone while driving, you get the idea — with dancers doing their ‘hip-hop thang’ right in the middle of a busy road.

 Police officers said they intends to share the video on social networking platforms in the hope that the track’s “easy appeal” will encourage youngsters to follow traffic rules.
 
 As part of the effort, the department had to recruit a dozen bop enthusiasts from Sandy’s Dance Academy to jive to the peppy beat of the song, which, incidentally, starts with the following line: “Danger mamu, danger mamu! Red signal crossing danger mamu.”
 
 The dancers perform the considerable feat of highlighting the dangers of violating traffic rules without so much as putting a foot wrong or breaking a sweat, warning against racing, jumping red lights, not wearing seatbelts, and not using a helmet while riding a motorcycle.
 
 Senior officers said they will ask the cast to perform in public too because, they figure, live performances will spur youngsters to become a powerful force of traffic law-abiding citizens.
 
 They will soon post the video on social networking sites and on video-sharing platforms like YouTube and WhatsApp and with simultaneous releases in public places and theatres.
 
 Police commissioner A K Viswanathan, during a conversation about the initiative, appealed to the public to follow traffic rules and promote road safety at all times. “This is an effort to reach out to all youngsters and we will circulate it on all online platforms,” he said.
 
 Joint commissioner of police, traffic, south, R Sudhakar said the video represents an effort to grab the attention of youngsters and make them focus on the dangers of traffic violations.
 
 “We have tried all sort of tools to create awareness, but this peppy number is sure to get attention,” he said.
 
 For his part, choreographer Sandy is happy to be part of an effort at social awareness. “I always wanted to contribute something to a social cause,” he said. “This is something that I see a lot of traffic violations and I thought this could help people by creating awareness about traffic rules and road safety.”
 
 Techie K Gowtham, a resident of Sholinganallur, took one look at a preview and said he believed the video could work. “Music videos like this are better, any day, than the fliers that policemen distribute and the posters and safety signs they put up on the roads.”
 
 
