THANE: The crime branch which is investigating the   ( ) case has found that as many as 160 CDRs found in possession of the accused were illegally sourced using email IDs of over 15 police commissionerates and rural police across India. 

 Police said the nodal officers of telecom companies have given details of 160 numbers to the Thane police. "We had provided the telecom operators with 284 phone numbers of CDRs illegally found in possession of the arrested accused. The information has started coming in. In the first set of 160 CDRs, it was found they were sourced using the email addresses of police commissionerates in different parts of country," said a police officer.
 
 The officer added they had shared information about the 160 phone numbers with their counterparts in various cities who are probing the person responsible for illegally sourcing the CDR and giving it to the accused, mostly private detectives, for a premium.
 
 "We are constantly in touch with our counterparts in various cities who have launched internal probes to zero in on the person responsible for sourcing the CDR. Once they nail the culprit, he/she will be booked and arrested," said the officer.
 
 The officer also pointed out that arrested cyber crime expert Ajinkya Nagargoje seemed to be the main player illegally sourcing the CDRs as he had access to the email ID of superintendent of police of Yavatmal. Nagargoje in connivance with arrested constable Nikhil Khawade had misused the email ID to source CDRs. "It is likely CDRs were sourced in a similar fashion in other parts of the country too," the officer added.
 
 When questioned about the delay in getting information from telecom companies, the officer said as per rules the department of telecom is not permitted to reveal details about a phone number to investigating agencies. But the Thane police got in touch with the central agency which gave them the green signal. Hence, telecom operators are now cooperating with the probe.
 
 Police also said they had been alerted about the involvement of three lower ranking policemen in other parts of the country. An internal probe is underway and the three will be handed over to Thane police later for probe.
 
 
