JOHANNESBURG: It’s wasn’t entirely convincing to many at the start of this tour to South Africa when India travelled with an uncapped bowler in right-arm pacer   and decided to play him right in the first Test. Like many, former South African allrounder   wasn’t convinced either. Like many who’ve played their cricket the traditional way - of having come up the ranks through the domestic grind in the longer formats - Pollock took time before arriving at the conclusion that Bumrah is “different”.

 
 
 
 “He has something different hasn’t he? His action is different, he bowls wide of the crease, he is skiddier and rushed batsmen a little bit,” says Pollock.
 
 Bumrah is a good reason why ‘old school’ Pollock believes youngsters, these days “are all learning on the job”. “I think he learnt as he went through the Test series about the lines that he could bowl and he learnt what he could do and couldn’t do. I spoke to him and asked ‘wouldn’t you like it if the rest of your Test career was played on surfaces like this? He said, definitely.”
 
 
 
 
 
 In that, Pollock believes Bumrah’s big challenge in Test cricket will be when he gets back to India and bowls on surfaces that don’t assist mere pace. “It’s going to be more of a challenge when he gets to India. He is going to learn to reverse it and different surfaces and different stages,” says Pollock.
 
 The cricketer-turned-commentator is “impressed” with India’s stock. “It’s the first time that you’ve had 5-6 guys (who have) played and done a good job. Unlike the past, now you (India) have had a good balance to the attack. The bowling was good and if you can keep those bowlers as a group, there is no reason why India can’t be successful in England and Australia,” he says.
 
 
 
 He was however critical of India’s approach in Tests. “I was a little bit surprised by their batting. I thought it was going to be their strength,” Pollock said.
 
 “Looking back, I think they have identified that preparation wise they needed to be here for more time. It goes down to what are the actual goals you want to achieve. If you want to win Test series away, you have to give them priority. And priority means more preparation,” he concluded.
 
 
 
 
