BHOPAL/JABALPUR:   high court (MPHC) on Friday came to the rescue of a woman from Bhopal, who was facing trial for kidnapping her own child after she had run away with the minor boy from the court premises after a family court gave kid’s conditional custody to the father. The court held a natural guardian can’t be accused of kidnapping her own child and quashed the ongoing trial for abduction under section 363 of the IPC.

 
 According to facts of the case, petitioner in the case Santosh Meena and her husband, who appeared in the petition as an intervener, got married at Alwar on January 31 in 2009 and a child   was born to them on April 12, 2011. When their relations strained, Arihant was living with the petitioner and her husband lived separately in the wake of a marital discord.
 
 The husband moved an application before a family court in Bhopal in 2015 under the Guardian and Wards Act. The family court passed an order granting conditional interim custody of Arihant to the applicant. The court directed custody of Arihant would be given to her husband for 24 hours — from 4.30 pm of Friday to 2.30 pm on Saturday on every first and third week of every month, subject to other conditions imposed by the judge.
 
 It was alleged when custody of the child was given to husband on February 20, 2015 at 5.15 pm and he was taking his son in a car from the court premises, the woman with the help of two others forcefully took away the minor with her. A case under Section 363 was registered against Santosh Meena and a chargesheet was filed in the sessions court. The trial court also framed charges against the woman under sections 363 and 34 of the IPC for “allegedly kidnapping the minor from the lawful custody of her husband with the help of co-accused   and  .”
 
 Santosh Meena had challenged framing of charges against her in the high court.
 
 A single-judge bench of Justice  , referring to case Court of its Own Motion Vs Lam Labhya, Punjab, said “It was held in the case that existence of two guardians — one natural and another lawfully entrusted with the care or custody of the minor — if the natural guardian takes or attempts to take away a minor from the custody of such de facto guardian, there is no offence. Taking note that natural guardian for a minor child up to five years is the mother and in the present case, the minor was only three-and-ahalf-year-old on the date of offence, the judge said the petitioner may be liable for contempt of court proceedings for disobeying the court order, but not kidnapping of her own child.
 
