Chandigarh: For Atul Karwal (54), former PECobian from the 1983 batch of mechanical enginering and now, an alumnus, expedition to Mt Everest was a huge fixation. Having a keen interest in the adventure sports like high altitude trekking, rock climbing, advanced scuba diving among others, he had dreamed about reaching at least the base camp of the mountain with the world’s highest peak.

 Karwal, who got selected in the Indian Police Service (IPS) in 1988, got into Gujarat cadre and was based in Ahemedabad for a long time. He is currently an IG in CRPF, New Delhi.
 
 Hence, when the opportunity presented itself in 2007 in the form of a proposal inviting the officers from various departments like the police and other personnel from all ranks to go for an expedition to the Mt Everest, Karwal wholeheartedly prepared himself for the challenge and climbed the peak in 75 days. “I was told by my wife, that she has heard me rant about Mt Everest for 10 years, and now, I should grab the opportunity,” chuckled Karwal. 
 
 Present at the   Alumni Meet 2018, Karwal became the only person to have scaled Everest among those present in the congregation. “Since I am not a hard-core mountaineer, I had to train myself. Thus, for the next one-and-a-half year, my life just revolved around this. I did not want to live with the regret of not being able to climb the mountain, after seeing it from so close,” said Karwal. 
 
 Karwal enrolled himself in a basic mountaineering course and secured an A grade in the programme. He, further, trained for over an year and got through the selection trails for the expedition. “Out of over 450 people only 15 climbers were selected and I was one of them. Out of which, twelve were male and three were female climbers. Finally, only ten climbers including two women, could make it to the top,” added Karwal.
 
 Karwal, while into his day-job, trained himself alongside by carrying a weight of 25 kgs on his shoulders and walking. “Since, I had to train my body to what was expected in the expedition, I used to climb scores of floors in buildings while carrying the weight on my shoulders,” said Karwal. 
 
 However, he recalls encountering three moments in his climb, where he could have got badly injured. But, he chose to push himself and move ahead.
 
 Karwal, who was 44-year-old then, hugely believes in the law of attraction and has found it to be hugely important in his life. “I have been truly blessed and I think that whatever you want from your heart, the universe would definitely give that to you. You just have to believe in it,” he added with a smile.
 
 
