HYDERABAD: Terming restrictions imposed at University of Hyderabad a “huge conspiracy”,   Vemula’s mother, Radhika, urged dalits to rise against attempts to stifle their voice.

 Speaking on the occasion of the second death anniversary of Rohith, research scholar who committed suicide on January 17, 2016, Radhika said, “Last year they did not allow anybody inside campus. This year, they allowed only a few people. There is a conspiracy. They allowed police inside but not the media. They do not want this struggle to be known beyond the gates of this university.” She was addressing students and Dalit activists.
 
 She said authorities have been trying hard for the past two years to prove she and Rohith were not Dalits. “Do Narendra Modi, Smriti Irani and Bandaru Datteraya (former minister) carry their caste certificates around that they are questioning my caste identity?” asked Radhika.
 
 On Rohit’s first death anniversary on January 17, 2017, the university turned into a battleground after the administration restricted the entry of outsiders, including Radhika and  , her elder son.
 
 
 
 On Wednesday, the University of Hyderabad granted permission to members of the Ambedkar Students’ Association to conduct a programme at Savitribai Phule auditorium where Rohith’s family and some Dalit activists such as Kancha Ilaiah, Prakash Ambedkar, Kaki Madhava Rao addressed the gathering.
 
 The day started with the welcoming of   (as she is fondly called by students) amid slogans of ‘Johar Rohith Vemula’.
 
 The mother of the deceased Dalit research scholar broke into tears after she saw the Rohith stupa. A deafening silence spread as she wept for some minutes holding and kissing the Rohith stupa. The silence was only broken after students started raising slogans of ‘Johar Rohith Vemula’ again.
 
 Family members of Rohith along with other activists and students garlanded Rohith’s stupa. This was followed by a rally from the Velivada to the auditorium. The programme concluded with all participants lighting candles in memory of Rohith.
 
 Last year, hundreds of students from varsities across the country landed in front of UoH to express solidarity with the ‘Justice for Rohith Vemula’ movement. This year the turnout was poor. Despite ASA’s call to voluntarily boycott classes, many students desisted from taking part in the rally; academic activity on campus continued smoothly.
 
 
