By Madhavi Lall

 To most of us the   is a real sign of the world that was promised. It is validation of the self that we have so carefully built through years of struggle and countless sleepless nights. 
 
 Therefore it is no surprise that the question: What should you look for in a first job? has undergone much needed scrutiny. This article will offer no easy hacks or cheat sheets. Instead, I will share what I have learnt along the journey and hope you will find wisdom in the perspectives that emerge from a retrospective connecting of many dots.
 
 The metaphor of first love seems fitting to describe the emotional anchors associated with a first job. We all enter the world of work with the unflinching belief that we will change it — create an impact or become the best! The infectious enthusiasm that all the ‘firsts’ elicit is etched in our personal histories.
 
 On campus, our decisions are often influenced by what I would call the ‘collective conscious’ or our personal imperatives. So the highest paying job suddenly becomes synonymous with the dream job. Free goodies, red-carpet campus connect events and suddenly we are taken in by ‘all that jazz’.
 
 College does not prepare you for questions like: ‘What do I actually want out of work? What is meaningful work to me?’ Think about what your personal values are, what you most enjoy doing and then target a job and an industry that will give you an opportunity to experiment and learn. Do not chase a salary figure. Find a role that you’d love and you will earn.
 
 Your first   will determine the work ethic that you will embody for the greater part of your career. Seek to work with a manager who will intellectually challenge you, who will nudge you out of your comfort zone and help you see the world through varied lenses. Don’t get too hassled if you land up with a bad manager. You will learn as much from them if not more — what not to do when you become a manager, and this is an important learning.
 
 The culture of a place, its values, norms and practices have a huge impact on our happiness and success. But how do you figure out the culture of a company you’ve never worked for? Asking the question ‘How is this organisation different from other organisations?’ will not give you answers. People generally think their cultures are more distinctive than they actually are — uniqueness bias. Though it is tempting to look for a great culture, it is wiser to rule out the worst cultures, as toxic behaviours wreak more havoc than positive behaviours breed joy. If the general view of an organisation is that it is wildly unfair and inflexible — cross it off your list.
 
 Note how an organisation responds to failures. Every on-campus presentation will speak about how innovation is core to the company’s culture. Dig deeper. An organisational culture that encourages fast failure and quick integration of lessons learned is likely to be innovative in practice.
 
 Remember to have fun. Your first job is your learning zone. Operate in it with a growth mindset. Instead of just spending time doing things, spend more time exploring, asking, experimenting, reflecting, striving and becoming. Find a   or a trusted colleague to exchange ideas or have vulnerable conversations with.
 
 Take your time when entering the workforce and go step by step. Sometimes decision-making in large organisations may not always keep pace with the expectations of people who live in the digital age. All your ideas may not be accepted. Understand that an organisation that has stayed around long enough would have seen several cycles of change. Do not read implicit knowledge as resistance to change. Persevere and be committed to succeeding.
 
 Your first job may or may not be your dream job. It is the first step on the path of figuring out what your dream job should look like. Work hard. Do your best and do not be lazy. Be open to change and try new things.
 
 Soak it in. This is where you will find your first mentors. You will make close friends. This is the first time you will be financially independent. Spend time meeting new people and making lasting connections. Pursue your hobbies and nurse your passions. Travel to new places and observe new cultures. Make each day count. All the firsts happen just once.
 
 And if you still wind up feeling shortchanged, remember it is not the end of the world. It is just one phase of your life!
 
 (The author is head (HR),  . Views are personal)
 
 
