The capital city is gearing up for yet another  , the largest annual gathering of women in the world according to Guinness Book of World Records. The pongala frenzy is reaching its crescendo as the women here are busy purchasing the items including pots and saris for the ceremony. 
With the religious fete set to be held on March 2, the shops are wooing the women and girls with  . These ‘pongala packages’ as they are called, have every component and ingredient used for offering pongala and the best part is that the shopkeepers are even offering choottu and kothumbu from Pollachi and a hearth for free along with the purchase!
 
 
 
 
 
 Baburaj T, accounts officer of New Maharajas Dress World, a textile shop at Pulimoodu that sells the pongala package for `799, tells us, “The kit includes 23 items including the payasam ingredients such as 1 kg chambav rice and jaggery, cashewnuts, ghee, raisins, cardamom, a steel ladle, a cotton towel, a pot and a sari. It will also have lamp oil, camphor, beaten rice, sandalwood and a matchbox — packed in a shopping bag. The sales began from February 10 and the response has been great.”
 Interestingly, for those who prefer to stick to the traditional way of offering pongala to Attukal amma in the mud pot, the shop has plenty to offer. “We have made it customer friendly as one can select the type of pot and hearth they want to use for the pongala. For those who wish to cook in the traditional method, we have earthen pots and bricks as hearth while others can use steel containers and stove.”
 Some of the devotees also laud the easy availability of the components. Homemaker Suchitra, from Mannanthala, who was busy selecting her sari for the pongala day, says, “It makes it easy for us as most of us will be there only to offer the pongala. In the past few years, it was difficult for me to arrange the choottu and kothumbu from friends and relatives. This year, I got these for free so I don’t have to worry about that aspect.”
 
 Techie Remya Parameshwaran, who will be performing her first pongala this year, says, “My husband and I are from Chennai and we are settled here. As it’s my first time offering pongala, neither of us are aware of the items required. I saw a hoarding about this offer and that’s how I got here. I believe such offers must also be made available through online shopping.”
 
 Meanwhile, another customer Sashikala, employed at Social Welfare Department of Kerala says that the pongala kits are quite helpful for employed women. “We will be working till the previous evening of the pongala, so it is hard to purchase each item from different shops. But offers like these are beneficial for us as we don’t have to roam around the markets and shops buying individual items.I think it will be more preferred by the young women as they get everything in one package,” says Sashikala, who was one of the customers at Ramachandran Textiles, a popular textile shop at Attakulangara. 
 
 While the shop doesn’t provide the entire kit, it did offer some attractive deals such as the purchase of a cotton sari worth Rs 369 or set mundu will fetch you a steel pot, plate and ladle for free. Its manager Prabha Harrison says, “We have special pongala offers for the customers every year. Even for grocery items, we provide combo offers and discounts for items used in making pongala payasam.”
 
  
 Although the festival offers were welcomed by most city folks, there were also women who did not jump at the offers. “It’s good that these offers make pongala preparations easy. But according to me offering pongala to Attukal amma is sacred and we should not chose an easy way to do it. Procuring each item for the pongala by taking the effort is also part of our devotion,” says Uma Rajasenan, a bank employee.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 With hardly a week to go for the Attukal pongala, the city is swelling with earthen pot sellers. A beeline of pots can be found from Ayurveda college junction to the premises of   at Manacaud. Murugan from Poovar, who has been selling pots at Attakulangara for a decade now, says the prices are flexible and most customers don’t bargain as it is for Attukal pongala. “It is an offering to the goddess and if they offer the pongala in our earthen pots, we will also feel blessed. The prices for the pots range from Rs 70, Rs 50 and Rs 10 depending on the sizes.”
  
 
 
 
