THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Almost all the nominated members, irrespective of their different political lenience, were of the opinion that   (LKS), proposed as a common platform for Keralites living across the globe, has set a model worth emulating in other states in the country.

 Now, having taken part actively in the sessions and conferences over two days which touched upon every single problem being faced by Malayali expatriate population across the world, several of them have an uncertain feeling regarding the promises the meet gave. Would this meet too end up like previous non-resident Keralites ( ) meets in the state or the annual Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) conferences being held in various states, they asked.
 
 "Just look at the two-day global NRK meet held in the state capital exactly three years ago. There had been several decisions including formation of advisory boards in each country besides setting up of legal cells. But nothing has materialised so far," said  , president of   in  .
 
 LKS has also come up with similar recommendations including support systems (especially for women NRKs), separate wings in non- resident Keralites affairs department (Norka) to deal with NRKs abroad, in other Indian states and for returnees, NRK professional committees in other countries and contributory pension and medical insurance schemes for returnees.
 
 Like many other representatives from  , where the state has the major chunk of its expatriate population, Hassan too considers it a pride to have taken part in the LKS. Besides, unlike in earlier NRK or PBD meets, the LKS gave an opportunity for even commoners to interact with ministers, legislators and government officials, he said.
 
 Renowned film sound designer Resul Pookutty, LKS has already bridged the gap between the government and NRKs. "Both business tycoon M A Yusuff Ali and   (who inspired the lead character of author Benyamin's novel Aadujeevitham), representing the struggling NRKs, were members of LKS. The voices of ordinary people were heard, and that made the difference," he said.
 
 The excitement over the first-of-its-kind opportunity was evident in the recommendations that poured in from various Indian social clubs and charitable organisations. Many representatives spoke elaborately on the sad plight of NRKs from lower income groups and lack of mechanisms to support them.
 
 "LKS assumes significance as we do not have any other platform to discuss NRK's problems and find solutions. LKS members have great responsibility now," said actress Revathy. Novelist Benyamin opined that democratic countries have been adopting new development models and formation of LKS was praiseworthy in this backdrop.
 
 
