MUMBAI: On February 2, during a door-to-door survey of tenements at  , a slum on Juhu airport land, one of its residents took a picture on his mobile phone of Rs 5,000 he had with him. 

 When the slum survey team reached his home, Jagdish Jangam (33) gave the money to its leader,  , and told him to collect the balance Rs 30,000 he demanded from his mother. 
 
 Once Padmashali pocketed the money, Jagdish's friends surrounded the survey team and dragged them to the Juhu police station. They complained to the police that the team had been demanding and collecting Rs 35,000 from each tenement’s dwellers, threatening that otherwise their homes would remain unmarked, making them ineligible for free housing. 
 
 As proof, they told the Juhu police to search Padmashali for Rs 5,000. Finding it, and supported by Jangam’s picture of a note, the police filed an FIR, naming four persons. 
 
  
 
 Two others are Ankush Hegde and Yogesh More. The fourth person’s name wasn’t mentioned, but his mobile number was. When TOI visited the slum that abuts the Juhu runway, there was fear in the area and people refused to reveal their names and speak on record. 
 
 “In all, nine residents came forward and testified against the survey team’s extortion. For a price, slum residents were told, their tenements would be shown as two units so that they could claim two free houses,” said   vice-president Bhavna Jain. 
 
 Former MP Kamat has been demanding that the government make public its plans for the rehabilitation of slum-dwellers. “The airport authority has put certain restrictions which the state government is suppressing and not informing the residents while seeking their consent,” he said. 
 
 Kamat alleged that residents are being coerced to give consent to rehabilitation without being informed where they will be rehabilitated. 
 
 The   started the survey of tenements on Juhu airport’s land in January. The survey is at the behest of the civil aviation ministry, said Swati Karle, deputy collector (encroachments) overseeing the survey. 
 
 Her office, part of the SRA, has washed its hands of the incident. Karle said her office’s job ends with issuing notices informing residents of surveys and marking eligible tenements. Her team has so far numbered 3,500 tenements. 
 
 “No official from the deputy collector’s office was present the day the incident is reported to have occurred. Those involved in the incident are private persons. 
 
 MahaOnline has been appointed by the SRA,” said Karle. “The two teams have been working in the slums simultaneously, but not together. A report has been sought about the incident from MahaOnline.”
 
 Following the incident, Karle said she demanded the team be removed and a new one appointed. For a week the survey was stopped. It resumed on Friday with a new team. 
 
 When TOI asked Deepak Kapoor, chief executive officer, SRA, if the survey will be cancelled in light of the incident and an inquiry conducted, he said, “I have told our survey incharge to submit a factual report by next Monday. Let the report be submitted.”
 
