The state commission for protection of   on Wednesday registered a case suo motu against the conduct of   ritual at   in Thiruvananthapuram. The case has been registered on the basis of media reports of DGP (Prisons) R Sreelekha terming it as a crime against children in her blog post. 

 The commission will scrutinize if the ritual amounts to violation of child rights. "We had earlier issued an order banning a similar practice at   temple. We hadn't looked into the Attukal temple ritual until now," commission chairperson   said. 
 
 Kuthiyottam: Child rights commission registers case
 
  A day after DGP (Prisons), R Sreelekha termed ‘Kuthiyottam’ ritual at Attukal temple as a crime against children in her blog post, Kerala state commission for protection of child rights (KeCSPCR) suo motu registered a case against its conduct. The case has been registered following media reports. The commission will scrutinize whether the ritual amounts to child rights violation.
 
 
 “We had earlier issued an order banning the similar practice at Chettikulangara temple. We hadn't looked into the issue at Attukal temple until now. As a first step, a case has been registered so that we can begin collection of data and documents related to this ritual. Our objective is to find out if this ritual causes violation of child rights,'' said Sobha Koshy, chairperson, KeSCPCR, adding that it is of utmost importance to sensitise people on matters like these. “Which God will be happy by inflicting pain on kids? We had earlier tried to get some data on this practice from devaswom board, but it was not available,'' she said.
 
 
 
 
 In 2016, KeSCPCR had banned the practice of ‘Chooral Muriyal’ at Chettikulangara temple which was upheld by HC later. However, a section of parents along with the temple administration defied the order and paraded the children for the ritual last week. Senior members of the Attukal temple trust at a news conference on Wednesday explained the age-old customs and said the temple rituals were driven by the power of divinity.
 
 
 KSisupalan Nair, secretary of Attukal devi temple trust, reasserted that Sreelekha's opinions were misleading and were made not realising the reality. “Kuthiyottam is a practice that is several centuries-old, followed by our ancestors. It's not for us to effect changes in them,'' said Sisupalan Nair. The secretary however pleaded ignorance when asked about the myth behind piercing the body of children who take part in ‘Kuthiyottam’.
 
 
 He also claimed that the HC had statements favouring the temple trust in the issue. “Even HC has made favourable statements on this issue while considering a petition. We don't have anything more to say,'' said Sisupalan Nair. Ramachandran Nair, former chairman of Attukal temple trust, said that HC had once declined to intervene in matters related to temple rituals.
 
 
 
