VIJAYAWADA: Following assurances from the chief minister’s office, Indian Medical Association ( ) has decided to call off their strike.

 Doctors initially decided to intensify the strike after they received the list of business of legislative council. However, they decided to call off their stir after the chief minister’s secretary   told IMA representatives that the Andhra Pradesh Allopathic Private Medical Care Establishments bill may be withdrawn.
 
 Earlier in the day, representatives of IMA met chief minister   at his office. They requested the CM to withdraw the bill considering the single doctor clinics in the state. The CMO, which conducted a review with officials of the department of medical health and family welfare, has finally decided to hold the bill for a while.
 
 Doctors who organised an emergency meeting decided to intensify the strike as there was no response from the government. “We have urged the government to amend the bill just as the Karnataka government had done. But the government has ignored our requests and kept the bill in business of legislative council which is not a good sign for us,” said IMA president Dr Jaya Sekhar.
 
 Later, IMA announced that they received a call from the state government’s representatives that they will consider our suggestions in preparing the bill and asked us to call off the strike. “There was delay in communication from the government and we thought of continuing the strike. The chief minister has considered our requests and directed health wing to consult IMA to make necessary amendments. CMO officials said they will organise a meeting soon with us on the issue,” said IMA former president  . We are happy and ready to give valuable inputs to the government so that small hospitals and clinics do not suffer, he added.
 
 Representatives of IMA demanded the state government to exempt small hospitals, clinics, nursing homes from the bill as more than 80 per cent of the doctors will benefit. “Karnataka state government made amendments to the bill and exempted majority of the small practitioners. We also asked the government to give exemption from registering with National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Health Care Providers (NABH) and other agencies which involves huge investment, “says IMA Joint Secretary Dr Phanidhar.
 
 “We are happy that the government kept its promise by holding the bill but we don’t think it is a victory. We will attend cases by wearing black badges”, says Dr Jaya Sekhar.
 
 
