 is considered to be a magical time for most women, notwithstanding the nutritional and physical restrictions that accompany the process of growing a new human being in their bodies. Since the mother is the sole source of nutrition for the fetus, much has been said about the kind of food a pregnant woman should be eating. Recently, however, the focus has shifted towards the physical well being of the mother, which has a direct impact on the health of the baby as well. 

 The age of onset of Diabetes in women has shifted to the reproductive age group and an increasing number of pregnancies are being complicated by diabetes. High blood sugar during pregnancy not only places the mother at risk for future metabolic complications but also the fetus at risk for future diabetes. Thus a diabetic pregnancy perpetuates the ongoing epidemic of Type2 diabetes. Proper screening on time for diabetes in pregnancy is of utmost importance to prevent maternal and fetal complications. Preconception counseling for all the diabetic individuals is also very much important. In addition to proper diet, pharmacological therapy (if needed) and adequate monitoring of blood glucose levels, planned physical activity of 30 min/day is recommended for all those who are capable of participating. Brisk walking or arm exercises while seated in a chair for at least 10 minutes after each meal accomplishes this goal. Exercises that use upper body muscles or those exercises which place little mechanical stress on the trunk are preferred. 
 
 The study, published in the Journal of American Medicine Association, provides evidence of better health for the mother and the baby when a moderate exercise regimen is adopted during pregnancy. The study showed that excessive weight gain during pregnancy (which is considered to be a risk factor for childhood obesity) is prevented, and the risk of having overweight babies (more than 4 kg at birth) is reduced significantly. In addition, pre-eclampsia, gestational diabetes, risk of caesarean section, lower back pain, pelvic pain and urinary incontinence can also be prevented through regular moderate exercise during pregnancy. Benefits for the baby include normal birth weight, and prevention of fetal distress and premature birth. Recommended exercises include yoga and pilates in combination with aerobics, while exercises that should be avoided during this time are long-distance running, intense weight and isometric contraction training, jumps, high-impact exercises and exercises with risk of falling or that involve lying on the back. While most people believe that pregnant women should take it easy, it is actually better to keep moving to keep complications away.
 
 Pregnancy can be a challenging time for women, especially when they have to contend with the differing opinions of well-wishers. Old wives’ tales recommend complete rest during this time, but this belief is constantly challenged through results of scientific research. Although some pregnancies may necessitate bed rest due to various complications, women who are experiencing a normal pregnancy can take the benefit of exercise, even if they haven’t done so previously. This study has demonstrated that it is never too late to start, and that exercise can have long-term benefits for both mother and child. Doctors recommend moderate physical activity for pregnant women who were physically active prior to conception. 
 
 
 
 1. Perales M, Artal R, Lucia A. JAMA. 2017 Mar 21;317(11):1113-1114.
 
 
 
 
 , M.B.B.S. (Cal), PGD in Endocrinology & Diabetology, Physician, Diabetes Clinic, Kolkata
 E-mail: drmkaguha40@gmail.com
 
 
 
 
