LUDHIANA: Moving a step ahead, civic officials are planning to declare Model Gram area under block 26 as model block where most of the properties have been tagged with unique identity number (UID) plates. After this step people in this block will get every facility connected with their UID numbers and at one single click they will be able to trace their property tax returns, water supply and sewerage dues and other services under the municipal corporation. This block has been selected in trial basis followed by which other blocks will be considered and work to install the UID numbers will also pick up the pace.

 The installation of UID number plates had started from block 26 in ward number 49 in June 2017 and after that some other areas like Ghumar mandi, Model House, Atam Nagar,   Market, Maharaj Nagar, Model Gram, Model House, Sarabha Nagar, Harnam Nagar, Kochar Market,   and   are also covered with the plates. But the department wants to take a trial from one block and then gradually entire city can be covered.
 
 In Block, 26 total identified properties are 1,958 and the municipal corporation received booking for 1,006 UID plates which were installed as well. The officials matched the record of these UID plates with the property tax returns filed and 802 people paid the tax. Interestingly, for water supply and sewerage dues, 1,096 people are in MC records. 
 
 When people from this block will visit the MC office for any type of work they will just to have to tell their UID number to the officials and entire record will be at one click. The residents will be able to get services like birth and death certificate, issuance of TS-1, license and any other type of service provided by MC.
 
 While giving the information the superintendent of MC   said they had generated the UID numbers with the aim of keeping the records of every property in the city and instead of issuing separate numbers to one property people will get one number. He said they will issue password and log in to the residents when they will get their phone numbers registered with MC and their UID numbers will get connected with other records of MC on their name.
 
 
 
 
 The UID number is an 18 digit number which comprises zone number, block number, road ID, property ID and property sub ID but on this number plate only 5 digits property number will be written and rest of the numbers are for official records. UID number plates will give single identity to any property.
 
 
 
 
 Though the department wants to now connect each record of residents with UID number but the slow pace of installation of number plates is a cause of concern. The department has received data of only 1.5 lakh properties against total of 4 lakh properties from   Remote Sensing Center (PRSC) due to payment issues. Moreover people do not show response to UID number plates. In block 26 when these plates were installed the area councilor   had helped the MC officials in collecting the money. Therefore now the officials wants to take help from councilors from other wards as well for making it popular among the residents so that it could be implemented in the city.
 
