TRICHY: Even as construction on the Chennai arm of the road over bridge (RoB) is dragging on due to a delay in land acquisition, the authorities seem to be in no mood to open the completed arms, adding to an already-congested traffic in Trichy junction.

 Though the Madurai arm of the new RoB was completed in January this year, with the facility not being officially opened for vehicular movement, E Pudur locals have been demanding that the completed stretch be opened for connecting Crawford with   road and   road.
 
 State highways department launched the project in 2006 at an estimated cost of Rs 81.40 crore solely to ease the traffic snarls at Trichy junction. 
 
 The authorities started the works by constructing six RoB arms towards Chennai, Madurai, Railway junction, Central bus stand, a stretch connecting RoB with rotary and Dindigul sides.
 
 However, various issues on acquiring land involving state and central government agencies, including defence and railways, consistently delayed the overall progress of the RoB. Except the construction of the Chennai arm which required 0.66 acres of defence land to complete the high level road, the works of all other arms were completed. The two arms - Dindigul and Railway junction – however were opened for traffic recently.
 
 Though the works on the Madurai arm were completed by the state highways department earlier this year, the facility was not opened for traffic. “In the morning, schoolchildren are doing skating on the Madurai arm of RoB. 
 
 If the works were complete earlier, why can’t the highways department initiate efforts to permit vehicular movement on Madurai arm so that congestion on the old RoB would decrease,” H  , resident of E Pudur, said.
 
 Provided that the Madurai arm of the new Trichy junction RoB was opened for public use, it is said that vehicles approaching from Crawford, E Pudur and   end can bypass the congested-old Trichy junction RoB to reach Dindigul road, collector office road, and   in a short time.
 
 
