At a time when the entire country is talking openly about menstrual hygiene with the release of the movie 'Pad Man',   organised a special screening for its students, teachers and staff on the day of the movie's release. The event which was called, Transcending Taboos, an awareness campaign, the college administration had booked an entire cinema hall in   where the auditorium was jam-packed due to the excitement among students for the movie.

 
 
  Though the college authorities had expected that  , the director of the movie and real-life Pad Man  , would be able to make for the screening but due to their schedule, they could not make it to the screening.
 I am glad that all of you have joined us at this event. Miranda House is happy to celebrate women and their right to live with dignity," said  , principal of the college.  , who is also an alumna of the college was also present at the screening, added, "This is a very important film and it has put the limelight on the taboos that have been created by our society. And I thank the principal of the college for organising this screening to create awareness among the students and staff. Menstruation is a natural thing, it should not be considered as a taboo."
 
  
  Shovana Naryan, who is also the alumna of the college was also present at the screening
 
  
  Miranda House students with the placards
 
 The students also seemed positive with their response on the movie.  , a student of Hindi (Hons) from Miranda House said, "I think a change will come through this movie. Movies have a lasting impression on the audience. We have an example of the movie, ' '. The term ' ' got its impact back among people with the movie so I think this movie will also have the same impact."
 
  
  Pratibha Jolly, principal of Miranda House (L) with Shovana Narayan 
 
 
  
  
 
 Supriya, vice-president of Women Development Cell of the college, added, "The best part is that we are at least talking about periods now. It is a very natural thing, and I am not sure about the change that it is going to bring but people will talk about it normally."
  
  Students during the screening
 
 
  
  
 
