KOCHI: The   on Thursday criticized police for registering a case against a youth who died when a tipper truck rammed his car.

  criticized Manesh K P, sub-inspector of   in Malappuram, after summoning him to the court. A petition filed by Manual Thomas Kappan of Kanhangad challenging the case registered against his deceased son Thomas M Kappan is being considered by the court.
 
 
 It was alleged by the petitioner that a false FIR has been registered by the inspector regarding the road accident that took place at around 5am on December 31last year at Kalachal. Thomas was returning from   after seeing off his sister. When they reached Kalachal, a tipper truck carrying sand hit the car on the front. Thomas, who was taken to the nearby government hospital and then to  , had succumbed to injuries on January 1.
 
 When a copy of the FIR was obtained from the police station, it was stated that the car had lost control and dashed against the truck. While it is stated in the FIR that the information was given by the petitioner’s cousin Sandeep, the petitioner alleged that the name, address and signature of Sandeep were obtained by police on a blank paper and he was sent back.
 
 Though two more passengers in the car were admitted to anearby hospital, police did not attempt to record their statements, it was alleged. When the petitioner came to know about the accident and rushed to the spot, both the vehicles were seen removed from the spot, the petition said while pointing out that the truck belonged to a highly-influential local person.
 
 Though intimation about the accident was given to police by petitioner’s relative Jose Manully on the same day itself, the SI did not register the crime on the same day. While the truck was loaded with sand at the time of accident, site inspection was conducted by police after removing the truck from the accident site and the sand mysteriously vanished. It shows the conspiracy by the SI and his subordinates to protect the truck driver and owner, the petitioner alleged.
 
