COIMBATORE: Going by the statements given by the arrested in the past couple of days, the theft of opioid drugs from hospitals in the city has been going on for the past two years, according to the police. 

 M Abdul Rahman, the kingpin of the gang, had links with drug peddlers in Bengaluru and Mandya in   from whom he would get opioid drugs suspected to have been stolen from hospitals there. In the last two years, he started to steal opioid drugs from hospitals in Coimbatore to traffic them himself, running a vast network. Police are gathering information about other members of the gang to arrest them. 
 
 “We have formed special teams to nab a few more people who are members of the network. We have been collecting information about the youths who bought the drugs from eight men who were arrested in the last two days. Preliminary investigations show that many youths were using the drugs as intoxicant and we plan to conduct awareness among college students,” city police commissioner   said.
 
 Kattoor police (law&order) inspector T Sivakumar said that M Abdul Rahman, 24, of Kottaimedu, was working in a fish stall in Ukkadam fish market and he was given the opioid drugs by one of his friends, more than five years ago. During night hours, he started to take the drugs and became addicted to it.
 
 “Abdul Rahman met R Mahendran, 28, of Edayarpalayam, and V Ajay, 24, of Selvapuram, a few years ago while playing cricket. Mahendran was working in an IT firm in Bengaluru and he had developed good rapport with staff of a few medical shops. There is no restriction for the opioid drugs and he bought the drugs from Bengaluru and supplied to Abdul Rahman. Ajay completed diploma in hotel management course and worked in a departmental store. The trio offered free injection for the first time users. Later, they would sell one ampule of opioid drug for Rs 500,” said inspector Sivakumar.
 
 Police said the trio had stolen such drugs from the   and Hospital (CMCH) and many private hospitals in and around Coimbatore. But most of the hospitals did not approach the city police to lodge complaints.
 
 Mahendran used to take the drug at least 10 times a day. But his family members were not aware of it. Police seized Tazowin 1ml, three bottles of Pentazocine lactate injection 30 mg/ml and nine syringe and needle. Police have registered a case against the arrested men under sections 8(C) read with 22 (b) of the NDPS Act. All of them were arrested and remanded in judicial custody.
 
 R Ashok, 21, and K Rohit, 19 were arrested by the Singanallur police. They were also remanded in judicial custody.
 
 
