CHANDIGARH: In a bid to quell the controversy over alleged changes in history books, Punjab chief minister   Singh on Monday announced a permanent “oversight committee” headed by eminent historian Professor  . The panel will examine the recommendations of the 2014 committee that had reviewed the history syllabus. It will also keep an eye on any further changes in history books in future the state.

 Claiming that the decision to review the history books was taken during the SAD-BJP regime in 2014, the CM on Monday termed the controversy an unnecessary one. Amarinder also accused the opposition of politicizing the issue.
 
 “To prevent any such politicization of history books…a permanent committee will oversee the process of formulating the syllabus and ensuring error-free books on the subject,” he said.
 
 The CM said the decision to review the syllabus and print books in alignment with the NCERT syllabus was taken during the SAD-BJP rule back in 2014. In fact, there were no history books earlier and what SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal was citing was merely a guide, said Amarinder at a press conference here.
 
 Amarinder asserted that there had been no deletion of syllabus relating to the Sikh Gurus, and the entire history of the Gurus, starting from Baba Banda Bahadur, had been incorporated in chronological order in Class XI and XII syllabus.
 
 The committee has been mandated to consider and report on the recommendations of the expert group constituted by the Punjab School Education Board in 2014, to review the changes made in the new history syllabus prescribed for classes XI and XII.
 
 The committee has been asked to examine the contents of the textbooks prescribed for classes XI and XII and to suggest corrections for factual and other errors, if any, and to align, as may be practicably possible, the history syllabus with that prescribed by the NCERT.
 
 Apart from these, the committee has also been directed to exercise oversight over the syllabus and contents of textbooks prescribed for history for all classes in the Punjab School Education Board and to ensure that there are no factual discrepancies.
 
 Apart from Professor Kirpal Singh, the committee shall comprise former vice-chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Prof J S Grewal, former pro-VC of GNDU Prof Prithipal Singh Kapur and Prof Emeritus Indu Banga of Panjab University at Chandigarh. In addtion, it will also have two eminent historians to be nominated by the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC).
 
