PATNA: Chaos marked the   (BSEB)’s practical examinations for Class XII students on Day 1 on Thursday with certain examination centres reporting lack of lab facilities, equipment and subject teachers.

 The 377 students of the  , who turned up for physics practicals at DPCSS Miller Senior Secondary School centre at Patna, had to return disappointed as a notice at the centre’s gate said their practicals would be held on January 15.
 
 While the students protested and raised slogan against the BSEB outside the gate, Miller school principal   told this reporter that the internal examiner did not turn up to conduct the examination.
 
 “Also, we did not receive the attendance sheets and marking sheets of all the examinees because of the delayed submission of examination forms by some of the examinees,” Gupta said.
 
 A PN Anglo School official wondered how they would conduct the practicals of Computer Science as the school lab did not have the equipment for the purpose. “The BSEB should assess the availability of facilities at a school before making it an examination centre,” said the official.
 
  principal Madhuri Dwivedi too said her school did not have a computer lab and a computer teacher. “I wrote to the BSEB about it, but it asked us to ‘manage’,” she said and added the school had accordingly hired a computer teacher on temporary basis and would use the office computer as well as her personal laptop for the examination. 
 
  principal   said her school students went to appear for their physics practicals at the BD College centre on Thursday, but the centre did not give the schedule for practical exams of other subjects, which they were supposed to.
 
 BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said the board has opened a helpline (0612-2227587, 2227588, 2227599) to offer help to the examinees and schools facing challenges. “Any examinee or school can contact the helpline for help,” he said and added certain minor hiccups apart, the practical examinations were conducted at 37 of the 62 examinations centres on Thursday.
 
 “Thursday’s practical examinations at the remaining 25 centres will be conducted on Friday,” he said.
 
 
