KOLKATA: Another complaint of molestation in a school has re-ignited the debate over engaging only female teachers and non-teaching staff in all-girls’ schools. Many parents 
 spoke to said that if the schools find it difficult to replace male instructors, they should at least engage a female attendant.

 Even education minister   on Friday iterated the need to keep female attendants in schools and questioned the decision of appointing male teachers in girls’ schools. “Even earlier I had told that there should be female attendants. Also, the subjects that involve physical proximity, it is always advisable that schools do not hire male teachers in girls’ schools,” said Chatterjee .
 
 But heads of most schools said such a move would create an “unreal world” for the students. “When the tempers are high, it is natural for parents to demand removal of male staff. This is the simplest solution but not a healthy one,” said a viceprincipal of a central Kolkata school.
 
 Since sports has become an integral part of the curriculum, it’s not always  . “We depend on sports education firms and accept the instructors they send us,” explained a principal. Many parents, however, believe the schools do not carry out due procedures while recruiting male teachers.
 
 According to   director  , all stake holders need to be educated on the issue. “Sex and relationship education is now urgently needed as children hear about sexual abuse almost everyday without understanding the implications. Children are vulnerable at this age and can be filled with all kinds of anxieties. This in turn leads to fantasising. For both school and parents, it is important not to jump to conclusions or to take the law into their own hands,” she said.
 
 But many sports education companies said that most schools do not want to hire a female attendant along with the male instructor to keep the cost in check.  , a kickboxing expert, had mooted this idea to the management of a private school last year. “But the proposal was rejected because the school said it could not afford to pay for so many instructors.,” said Das.
 
