NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation’s initial investigation into the Rs 600-crore loan fraud committed on   Bank by former Aircel promoter C Sivasankaran shows that the top brass of IDBI Bank had gone out of their way to provide the businessman a loan for “non-productive purpose” despite knowing the high risks involved after a previous loan taken by Sivasankaran’s company turned into a non-performing asset (NPA). 

 
 IDBI’s top management modified various conditions of the loan, including interest rates, its classification as ‘medium-term loan’, corporate guarantee and collateral proposed by Sivasankaran’s firm. Those part of the conspiracy, according to  , include former CMD of IDBI, M S Raghavan; current MDCEO of Syndicate Bank Melwyn Rego; P S Shenoy, former CMD of Bank of Baroda; B K Batra, former deputy MD of IDBI Bank; Ninad Karpe, former independent director of IDBI Bank; and S Ravi, currently chairman of Bombay Stock Exchange. 
 
 These former IDBI officials, CBI claimed, entered into a criminal conspiracy with promoters/directors of   of Companies to facilitate a loan amounting to Rs 523 crore to M/s Axcel Sunshine Limited, an associate company based in British Virgin Islands. This loan was facilitated even though a loan worth Rs 323 crore given to   Group’s Win Wind Oy (WWO - based in Finland) in 2010 had turned bad and the company had filed for bankruptcy in Finland. 
 
 “The Rs 523 crore loan was given to Axcel in 2014 to use the same for repaying other loans of other associate companies of Siva Group in flagrant violation of the regulatory guidelines,” says CBI. The company had offered 5.50 crore unlisted shares of Tata Tele Services Ltd (TTSL) valued at Rs 106 per share as security for the second loan and Rs 38 crore immovable property as collateral along with corporate guarantee of  . 
 
 “The accused bank officials had gone out of their way to abuse their official position by violating all RBI guidelines and instructions to give public money to Siva Group by way of a loan for a non-productive purpose, and more so, in a matter where the risks of recovery were very high, even going by the past experience they had had with the recent NPA relating to WWO loan account,” says CBI. 
 
 CBI says that Raghavan, Shenoy, Batra, Rego and S Ravi — then executive committee members of IDBI Bank along with other bank officials — also modified the interest rate for the Rs 523-crore loan, classified the loan as ‘medium-term loan,’ changed the ‘corporate guarantee’ stipulation to ‘Letter of Comfort’ and collateral proposed to cover the exposure to ASL as ‘additional security against IDBI’s exposure to any of the Siva Group of Company.’ 
 
 The bank disbursed around Rs 445 crore out of Rs 523 crore, which was used by Siva to clear dues of his other companies. IDBI offered other favours to Siva’s companies. The bank disbursed three other loans worth around Rs 31 crore) to Siva’s company to repay the interests to IDBI, giving an impression that the loan account was in good condition.
 
