We’re already seven days into February and the ‘love week’ is around the corner. Despite of not having the sequence of days that precede the ‘Big Day’ memorized religiously, most couples celebrate love during this week. 
  being the first on the list, marks the inception of this week and like love, the valentine’s week is not confined to spouses or lovers, but is for everyone to celebrate! So, here we are with some great tips that will help you for sure!

 
 Different colours signify different emotions and equations. One of the most beautiful flowers, the rose is available in many colours, with a different colour for every relationship.
 
 
  Not very difficult to guess, the red rose signifies love and is the perfect rose for your spouse or significant other.
 
  The warm colour represents the warmth of the lovely bond of friendship and can be given to a close friend.
 
  Long known for its association with serenity and calm, the colour ‘white’ is the colour of peace and a white rose is considered is a symbol of remembrance. Not strictly confined to a relationship, gifting someone a white rose conveys the cute message of ‘I’ve been thinking of you’ 
 
  Divinely beautiful and very rarely found, the Black Rose is associated with rebirth or the beginning of something new. It is thus the flower that will help you to revive long lost relationships.
 
  Symbolising admiration and respect, it can be gifted to your ideal- a teacher, a mentor or anyone you admire or look upto.
 
  A harbinger of poise and aplomb, deliver the gift of grace with these sweet blooms.
 
 These rare roses stand for desire, passion and enthusiasm, and can hence be gifted to that special someone in your life.
 
 This delicate colour symbolizes modesty.
 
  Ethereal looking and rarely available, the lavender rose stands for enchantment. Give it to your mother/sister or daughter and remind them that they’ve only grown beautiful with time.
 
  These roses are pinker than orange and darker than peach. They signify “desire and excitement”! 
 
 
 Apart from hugs, kisses and roses, gifts are exchanged in order to preserve the scintilla that the Valentine week holds. Here are some of the best gift ideas that you can use to make your day perfect!
 
 
 
 
 
 What better than chocolates that look like roses! Chocolates are hard to refuse and are fit for any and every occasion, and so are roses. 
 
 Being the best investment, gold is ideal to be gifted on this special day and invest in love.Get a gold rose and you have arose that doesn’t wilter or die, like emotions!
 
  Since the flower holds immense importance on the day, toping your gifts with rose petals will add to the beauty of the gift and at the same time will serve as a memento of the special day.
 
  The way to the heart is through the stomach, and rose flavoured desserts( macaroons or pastries) will do the trick! Adorable and tasty, this is the best gift to give to someone with a sweet tooth. 
 
  Rose scented perfumes / ittars or colognes are other gifts that can make it to your rose day gift list. Mood lifting and rejuvenating, the scent of this flower can work wonders!
 
 
