KOTA: To give a big cat to the   National Park (MHNP), a plan to honeytrap a male   was conceived and recorded roarings of a tigress was played to woo RT-91 out of the thick forests on Tuesday. The plan worked and RT-91 emerged in the   forest area of   sanctuary where the forest personnel, already keeping a close eye for last five days, tranquilized and trapped him in a cage.

 The nearly six year wait for Mukundara Hills ended Tuesday noon, as it got a tiger and expectations rose for boosting wildlife tourism in the   region. Honeytrapped RT- 91 was successfully relocated in an enclosure in Darrah area of MHNP. 
 
 The jubilant wildlife activists of Mukundara Hills region termed the relocation of tiger as historic, but the activists of Bundi district regretted losing RT-91 to MHNP.
 
 The tiger RT–91, popularly known as Mirza, was tranquillized around 5:30am and at relocated 12.48 pm to Darrah area of MHNP.
 
 RT-91, around five months ago, had through natural route wandered into the forests of Ramgarh sanctuary and had made its home in the forests since then.
 
 RT-91 was proposed to be shifted to MTHR least by March 31 and the teams of forest department had been burning mid night oil to catch the big cat for last five days but in vain. Eventually, plan to honeytrap the male tiger was developed and recorded roaring of the tigress was played upon in the forests on Saturday to woo the big cat to be out of thick forests in search of the tigress. The plan exactly worked and RT-91 emerged out of thick forests in Vishdhari forest area of Ramgarh sanctuary where the forest personnel, already keeping close eye for last five days, tranquilized and trapped it in the cage.
 
 ‘It is a historical day for MHNP as the efforts initiated around three decades ago in early 90s eventually yielded result today with the shifting of the tiger in MHNP’, Brijesh Vijayvergiya, a wildlife activist in Kota said. The wildlife lovers have decided to celebrate the historic relocation of tiger today in Kota he said adding the presence of tiger in MHTR would give multiple growth to tourism and employment generation in Hadauti, Vijayvergiya said but expressed concern over the safety and security of the big cat. A lot more need to be done on safety and security measures for the tiger in MHNP, he further said.
 
 Presence of tiger in MHNP would prove to be backbone for wildlife tourism in Hadauti region, Anil Rogers, a wildlife conservationist in Jhalawar said. RT-91 is popularly known as Mirza and is the male offspring of the couple T- 3 known as Bhadhur and T–30 Husnara, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the wildlife activists of Bundi district are not happy with the shifting of RT-91 from the forests of Ramgarh sanctuary to MHNP as they had demanded to relocate some other tiger to MHNP from Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR) and allowed RT-91 to exist in its natural habitat of Ramgarh sanctuary forests. ‘RT-91 had reached in the forests of Ramgarh sanctuary through natural route and had been living a natural course of life in the forests for last five months’, Vittal Sanadhya, a wildlife activist in Bundi said adding such shifting may leave adverse effect on RT- 91. Another tiger should have been shifted to MHTR from RTR and RT-91 should have been paired with tigress in the forests of Ramgarh sanctuary rather than shifting it to MHTR, Sanadhya further said. The decision to shift RT-91 to MHTR from Ramgarh forests is certainly not practical as it had been leading a natural course of life here, another wildlife activist   said.
 
 
