Nagpur: Patients at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) are having to get various diagnostic tests done from outside as the college has run out of chemicals to perform those tests. Vendor has stopped supply of reagents for non-payment of dues. Two major machines conducting basic pathological tests at GMCH are non-functional since last three days.

 Sources in the hospital said the hospital has not paid the bills of about past six months or more. They now amount to Rs15-20 lakh just for the reagents. Hence the vendor has halted the supply. Almost 1000 patients are affected daily due to these tests. This is also resulting in unrest in patients and they have started questioning the resident doctors on duty.
 
 Basic pathological tests like the serum electrolytes, kidney function test, liver function test etc are also not happening due to non-availability of reagents. With two machines in central clinical laboratory (CCL) not working, patients are being asked to get the tests done outside. “Only one machine in the biochemistry lab is only functional,” said a source.
 
 “This is not the first time supply has been halted over non-payment. It happens every few months. Reagents are most expensive items used in conducting diagnostic tests. The administration learns no lessons. It is high time higher authorities in the medical education department took cognizance and gave the dean powers to purchase chemicals using college funds or should allocate enough money for reagents,” said a senior teacher.
 
 GMCH dean Dr Abhimanyu Niswade told TOI part-payment was made on Thursday from the PLA fund and the reagent supply would resume soon. He claimed already supply of major reagents had started. He said efforts were on to bring reagents under the purview of hospital and remove it from education. “Medical education has no connection with this and hence it should be brought under hospital head. Hospital has enough funds to purchase drugs and reagents. Drugs are wrongly placed under education head,” said the dean.
 
 Sena protests lack of medicines
 
 The district head of Shiv Sena held a demonstration on Thursday at GMCH claiming that there was an acute shortage of all medicines.
 
 District head of Shiv Sena Prakash Jadhav in a release claimed there there were just nine ventilators for 26 beds in ICU. Important injections like the Streptokinase were not available for handling a heart attack patient. There is no BIPAP machine for providing oxygen. There were no facilities for tackling stroke patients. Even the paediatric ICU and Nenonatal ICU were not equipped properly. There are not enough dialysis machines in SSH due to which only peritoneal dialysis is done for many patients at GMCH.
 
 
