NEW DELHI: The end of the mandated 270-deadline for resolution of bankruptcy cases has thrown up a fresh challenge for lenders to   - they cannot even meet to discuss the future course of action. 

  
 With the bid for taking over the cash-strapped company, which was to deliver over 30,000 apartments and villas rejected, the resolution professional has sought directions from the   ( ) on the future course of action as the legally-mandated deadline is over. In normal course, the company would have gone into liquidation but that's an option that has been shot down by the Supreme Court, given that close to 20,000 home buyers are yet to get delivery. 
 
 Although the bid was rejected 10 days ago, bankers said some of them have approached IDBI Bank, the lead lender, to convene a meeting. One of them has suggested that the joint lenders' forum should meet since the committee of creditors may not be a valid forum, given that the deadline is over. But IDBI Bank has not bothered to respond yet even as other lenders are blaming the Mumbai-based entity for the current state of affairs.
 
 One of the options on the table is to get an extension for the NCLT-appointed resolution professional so that there is someone in charge of the sprawling project that stretches from Noida to Agra and includes the Taj Expressway apart from   Hospital. In addition, there have been suggestions of a rebid for the company, where the existing bidders - Valia Group, Adani and Kota Realty Fund and Cube Highways - are asked to submit fresh offers that can satisfy the lenders.
 
 Separately, the Valia Group has sought more time to revise its offer, which will be heard by NCLT's Allahabad Bench next week. The tribunal's order cancelling the mortgaging of 758 acre in favour of lenders to Jaiprakash Associates, Jaypee Infratech's parent, is also expected to increase the valuation for the insolvency-hit company where the liquidation value was earlier pegged at around Rs 8,000 crore. Valia Group's bid was short of the threshold, triggering a vote against the proposal.
 
 
