THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a bid to make   a labour-friendly state, the cabinet on Wednesday approved a new  . The state is now regarded as an investor-friendly destination but there is a need for making it a labour-friendly state, said labour minister T P   after the cabinet meeting.

 The labour policy aims at giving protection for the labourers and to ensure their rights, he said. Moreover there is a need to ensure a strong relation between employers and the workforce, Ramakrishnan added.
 
 All trade unions, in a meeting convened by the chief minister, have agreed to put an end to unhealthy practices prevailing in the labour sector. The new labour policy will also ensure social and economic protection for the labourers, said the minister.
 
 The policy envisages minimum wages to workers in various sectors and also participation in health insurance schemes. The government will ensure that a decent pay package is offered to labourers in various sectors, Ramakrishnan said. 
 
 No kind of exploitation will be allowed in the sector. The state government would strive to ensure that a minimum wage of Rs 600 per day is provided to labourers, the minister added.
 
 For ensuring professionalism among the labourers, various training programmes will be introduced . This would enable to them improve their efficiency and acquire the needed skills. The government would reward labourers who excel in their respective sectors, Ramakrishnan said. 
 
 The policy also ensures gender equality in the labour sector. It will be made mandatory for employers to ensure woman-friendly atmosphere in the working place apart from their safety and security. Setting up of crèches will be made mandatory in firms that employ women labourers. 
 
 Child labour will be strictly banned and a comprehensive rehabilitation package will be implemented for rescued children. The employer will have to face action if they are found sponsoring child labour. 
 
 The minister said that all labour disputes should be settled in a time-bound manner and agitations should not affect the production. All the lightning strikes should be avoided especially in essential sectors.
 
 
