PUNE: The standard of science fiction in the country will improve only when prolific authors write about on the subject and, to do so, writers can seek help from scientists in order to understand the basic principles, suggested noted astrophysicist Jayant   on the second day of the Pune Sci-fi Festival at the National Film Archive of India on Friday.

 “In 1972, I returned to India after completing my education and research. There was a science fiction story competition and I participated. Surprisingly, I started writing the story while attending a really boring lecture but that story won me the first prize,” said Narlikar stating that he had submitted his entry under the pen-name  , the initials, if reversed, form his name.
 
 Ray Douglas Bradbury, Isaac Asimov and H G Wells are some of Narlikar’s favourite science fiction authors. Reminiscing about his days as a fellow at King’s College, London, Narlikar shared his experience of meeting the English novelist E M Forster, who, despite his experience and status as an established writer, had told Narlikar to go through a science fiction story he had written.
 
 “I was surprised at the humility shown by this great writer in asking me to give my opinion on his work. I read it and it was brilliant. Hence, I feel that we need more writers to take up science fiction. Only then will the standard of science fiction improve,” shared Narlikar.
 
 While interacting with the audience, Narlikar said that he wished there was more awareness about general science and its applications. “People often ask me if I believe in the existence of God and want an answer in absolute terms, that is yes or no. They fail to understand that the definition of God, or for that matter anything spiritual, is completely subjective,” said Narlikar.
 
 When an audience member asked about the mystery of the universe and the big bang theory, Narlikar said that the concept of the evolution of the universe is so complex that it will take a lot of time to understand the entire concept. “We discover something new about the process and that opens up a set of complex questions. Hence, the more we study about it, the more complex it becomes.”
 
 
