CHANDIGARH:   police have arrested a married man for raping a woman on pretext of marrying her. Police have also booked accused’s mother and sister for criminal conspiracy and cheating. Later, mother of the accused man was arrested in the case too on Saturday. 

 Karam Chand, station house officer at Manimajra police station, said the accused has been identified as Pankaj and his mother as  , both residents of   village in Panchkula. In her complaint, woman said Pankaj worked at a government hospital in Sector 6,  , as an attendant, where the woman was deputed as a security guard. Both became acquaintances two years ago and fell in love.
 
 According to the complainant, Pankaj told her that he had divorced his wife a few years ago and now wanted to marry her. She alleged that he repeatedly raped her on the pretext of marriage for over a year. 
 
 Meantime, the complainant met Pankaj’s mother and sister, who said that he no longer had any legal issues with his ex-wife. Following this, the two decided to get engaged a few months ago. However, Pankaj’s first wife arrived at the ceremony and announced that her marriage with him had not been annulled and they were only living separately. As a result of the disclosure, the complainant called off her engagement and submitted a complaint with the Panchkula police. A zero FIR has been registered and forwarded to Manimajra police.
 
 Later, complainant submitted a complaint with Manimajra police stating that Pankaj had been repeatedly raping her on the pretext of marrying for over one year. It was further stated that his mother and sister were involved in the conspiracy as they hid the truth about his marital status. 
 
 After recording her statement, police booked Pankaj, his mother and sister under the sections 376 ( ), 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. Police arrested the mother-son duo on Saturday. Police said the sister will also be arrested soon. The arrested accused were produced in the local court and sent to 14-day judicial custody.
 
 
