NEW DELHI: While the current round of hostility between India and Pakistan has largely been attributed to the 
  in  , it might owe its genesis also to, as South Block sources told TOI, Pakistan’s decision to block access to all Indian government websites (gov.in) in May 2017. Pakistan on Friday also pulled out of the   ministerial meeting which will be held in India next week.

 
 Stating that the Indian government websites had opened only intermittently since then in Pakistan, official sources said as many as 5 note verbale (a form of diplomatic communication) had been issued to Pakistan to not block access to any Indian government website.
 
 The first note verbale was issued on May 18 2007 and the latest one only earlier this week. According to Indian authorities, Pakistan has done this deliberately to not allow Indian diplomats and officials to access their own government websites. It, however, also meant that the Indian high commission was inundated with complaints from Pakistan nationals who said they were unable to access Indian visa forms.
 
 "This has led to mushrooming of agents who have helped Pakistan nationals fill up visa forms through proxy servers,’’ said an official here, adding that this had also affected the normal functioning of the Indian mission.
 
 Diplomatic sources said Pakistan has pulled out of the WTO ministerial meeting scheduled to take place here March 19-20 amid signs that the ongoing diplomatic standoff could worsen further. While the WTO meeting was always going to be a multilateral engagement, India's decision to invite Pakistan commerce minister   for the event was seen as an outreach to Pakistan and a sign of a possible thaw in the relationship. Malik was earlier said to have confirmed his participation.
 
  
  
 
 India, in fact, issued another note verbale to Pakistan Friday saying that its diplomats and other officials were intercepted and harassed on 7-8 occasions in the past few days. Pakistan too issued a note verbale on Friday alleging that unidentified men intercepted the car of a senior diplomat, who was accompanied by his two minor daughters, and flashed torchlight at them. It reported 4 other incidents, taking the total number of cases of such alleged harassment and intimidation since March 7 to 30.
 
 With no let up in incidents of alleged harassment of diplomats, India and Pakistan are struggling to ensure that there is no further deterioration in the bilateral ties in the next few weeks. Despite the fresh instances of harassment, diplomats from both countries downplayed Pakistan high commissioner  's visit to Pakistan for consultations with his government, saying it couldn't be seen as an escalation.
 
 While Indian officials continue to maintain that all "genuine" allegations made by Pakistan high commission will be investigated, Islamabad has accused the Indian government of denying the "validity of its complaints". 
 
 According to Pakistan, while aggressive tailing has happened in the past two days, the "nature, scale and intensity" of recent incidents of alleged harassment by Indian authorities has never been witnessed before. In its latest note verbale, Pakistan said that despite the matter being brought to the attention of foreign secretary Vijay Gokhale, such incidents had continued.
 
