CHANDIGARH: As the Supreme Court on Friday reduced Tamil Nadu’s share of the Cauvery river water, experts and stakeholders in   watched the development closely, hoping that it would have no adverse impact on the state’s claims on river water sharing with its neighbouring states.

 Referring to its answer to the Presidential reference on the  , the court has said that “waters of an inter-state river passing through corridors of the riparian states constitute a national asset and no single state can claim exclusive ownership of its water”.
 
 Former chief engineer of Punjab G S Dhillon said this way Haryana and Rajasthan too could claim equal rights on Punjab’s river waters, despite water flowing to them from Punjab. “The judgment will have to be studied in detail but the two neighbouring states would want to push the same argument here,” he said.
 
 Ropar farmer  , whose land was acquired for the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal, said, “The Punjab government should study the verdict in the Cauvery case so that it is able to defend any such claim against the principal of riparian state. The   government claims to be the custodian of Punjab’s waters and should try its best.”
 
 The case in Cauvery river water took into account data suggesting that around 20 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) of groundwater is available beneath the surface in Tamil Nadu which the Tribunal has not taken into account citing it as a conjecture. “But in case of Punjab, the ground water situation is actually worse than Haryana and Rajasthan,” added Dhillon.
 
 Out of the enhanced 14.75 tmcft of water in Karnataka's share, 10 tmcft has been increased on account of availability of ground water in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Opposition parties like Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) have already been mounting pressure on Congress state government to “protect” the rights of Punjab and unequivocally declare “NO SYL – No Water to Haryana” immediately.
 
 The dispute dates back to 1976 when the then PM Indira Gandhi intervened in the matter, ruling that of the available 15.2 million acre feet (MAF) water from the three rivers, Punjab and Haryana would receive 3.5 MAF each. In 1979, Haryana approached the Supreme Court to implement this allocation. Punjab filed a civil suit in the apex court a few months later, challenging it. These lawsuits began a slew of legal battles that continue to this day.
 
 The apex court, which referred to international rules of Helsinki, Compione and Berlin on equitable distribution of river waters passing through various nations, has said that river is a national asset and no state can claim “exclusive ownership” of such waters or deprive other states.
 
 
