CHANDIGARH: A division bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday dismissed the plea seeking a   probe into the killing of 16-year-old   Khan, who was stabbed to death on a train in June last year. The high court, however, gave Junaid’s father Jalaluddin two weeks to file an appeal against its order in the Supreme Court.

 In its order, the bench headed by Justice Rajesh Bindal said the stay on trial of the case before the Faridabad court would continue till March 20. Jalaluddin can approach the top court to challenge the high court order till March 20.
 
 The Haryana government had argued that a division bench of the high court could not hear an appeal against the single bench judgment in a matter of criminal jurisdiction. In his appeal before the division bench, Jalaluddin had sought directions to set aside the November 27, 2017 order by single bench of Justice Rajan Gupta that had declined his plea to hand over the investigation to the CBI.
 
 In his detailed order, Justice Gupta had dismissed the plea, observing that complainant had not been able to show that there were serious flaws in the investigation, which would lead to the conclusion that same was shoddy or tainted. Dismissing the plea for CBI probe, the single bench had also observed there is nothing to show that the incident has any national or international ramifications.
 
 In his appeal against those orders, Jalaluddin had argued that the Haryana police had used artistry and manipulation to weaken statements made by witnesses on the point of identity of various accused, on their real role and their having acted in concert.
 
 “The true nature of the crime has been subjected to a cover-up. The conduct of the named accused and others as a lynching mob has been concealed. It has been projected as if the occurrence were sudden without any element of perpetrators having been acted as in conspiracy or an unlawful assembly,” Jalaluddin had submitted, while seeking a probe by the CBI into the case.
 
 It was also claimed that the offence under sections 153 (promoting enmity between different groups) and 505 (statements conducting to public mischief) of the IPC were excluded by the state police investigation to weaken the case.
 
 Junaid was lynched on an EMU train going from Ghaziabad to Mathura on June 22 last year after an argument over a seat. The horrific killing took place when Junaid along with his brothers and cousin was returning home to Khandawli village in Haryana’s Palwal district after Eid shopping in Delhi. His brothers were also injured in the attack. All four were attacked with sharp-edged weapons and later thrown out of the train at the Asoti railway station in Palwal district.
 
 
