Surat: The detailed project report (DPR) for the construction of a skywalk in the textile market area of the city was approved by the authorities concerned recently. 

 The work for first phase of the project costing Rs57 crore would begin within next two months. The skywalk would be built at a height of 7 metre and is expected to cover 50 textile markets within a 2.83km radius. The skywalk would be 5.5 metre in width and 2,230 metre (2.23km) in length and is proposed to be built in three phases. 
 
 Phase one, costing Rs14 crore, will cover rear portion of the textile market up to Salasar Hanuman Temple. After the first phase is over, a portion parallel to Ring Road would be constructed in the second phase and Millennium Market Road in the third phase.
 
 “Tenders would be floated for the first phase of the project covering nearly 1km area in the coming week. The work should start within two months’ time,” smart city project special commissioner M Nagrajan said. 
 
 The DPR was approved by the project management committee which was headed by standing committee chairman Rajesh Desai, who is also chief of the Smart City Development Ltd (SCDL). 
 
 SMC has said the work for phase III of the skywalk will be taken up only after consultations with stakeholders like Fostta, tempo association, traffic police, among others. 
 
 The skywalk will be built at the level of a second floor and every textile market will have access to it through an escalator. It will have access point at every 200 metre and connection with multi-level parking, BRTS bus stops, high mobility corridor and upper floors of the textile markets. It is estimated that nearly 2.5 lakh people move across the textile market area daily. Besides, some 1.5 lakh vehicles too pass through either the flyover or the road below it.
 
 “Traffic and people movement coupled with goods coming in and going out of the shops in the textile markets create traffic chaos. Once the skywalk is built, it will help ease traffic congestion here,” an SMC officer said. 
 
 
