GURUGRAM: The estate office 2 of   has set a record with the collection of around Rs 1,600 crore of revenue in the current financial year, the highest ever by any estate office in the state. Out of this, around Rs 796 crore was collected from challans and dues, while Rs 800 crore came from a land deal with a multi-national company.

 The   covers parts of new Gurugram located on the side of the Dwarka expressway while estate office 1, which has collected around Rs 324 crores as revenue, covers old Gurugram.
 
 “Estate office 2 has generated far more revenue than many of the estates combined. The amount is the largest this estate has ever generated since its inception,” said estate officer Vivek Kalia, adding that the current financial year is yet to end and they expect to generate more revenue the next month.
 
  
 Reeling under a financial crisis, Huda is eyeing recovery of pending dues from land allottees, including those allotted residential and commercial plots, in its sectors. Huda has already issued notices to a large number of people for recovery of dues.
 
 According to Huda officials, they have issued more than 20,000 notices so far, and people are coming forward to settle their dues. Around 500-600 notices are being issued on an average every month. “We are trying to recover all pending dues. The recovery of dues would help in improving Huda’s financial health,” Kalia said.
 
 As per rules, one has to deposit 10% of the cost of the plot at the time of filing application for allotment of plot. After the plots are allotted through a draw, allottees have to deposit 15% of the amount within 30 days from the date of the draw to get their possession letters, and the remaining 75% needs to be deposited within 60 days. In many cases, however, people have not deposited the remaining 75% of their plot cost.
 
 Huda officials said defaulters are being issued notices under Section 17(1) of the Huda Act, 1977. In case defaulters unable to settle their dues, JHuda will cancel the allotment and take the possession of the plot.
 
 Most of the big defaulters are from sectors 57 and 46. There are around 150 group housing societies in sectors 38, 40, 42, 43, 45, 47, 52 and 56. 
 
 Around 50 group housing societies in these areas have not paid their dues.
 
 According to an estimate, the civic body has to recover around Rs 3,333 crore of dues from across the state, from people who have been allotted plots —residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, social, religious and charitable, as well as plots for petrol pumps and shopping malls — and have not paid for years. 
 
 “There are various type of allotments of Huda plots. There are defaulters in almost all categories,” Kalia said.
 
 Earlier in November 2017 Huda in its biggest land deal ever managed to sell around 10 acre of commercial land for Rs 842 crores in sector 47 of Gurugram through e-auction on Wednesday. The site was successfully auctioned to IKEA, a multinational group that designs and sells ready-to-assemble furniture, kitchen appliances and home accessories and the largest home furnishing company in the world. 
 
 
