When it came out in 2010, ‘Churchill’s Secret War’ created quite a splash internationally with its central hypothesis that Winston Churchill’s racial worldview was largely responsible for the Bengal Famine of 1943, which killed three million. But author
 was criticised by several people, including Nobel laureate  . Mukherjee, who has answered her critics in a new edition, spoke to 
 Excerpts
 

 
 
 There is a lot of evidence regarding that. See the accounts of foreign travellers who visited the Mughal empire, for instance. Bengal was the centre of the world’s cotton export. The world’s finest muslin came from there. Even the poor could eat well there and had grains stored for up to two years. Bengal generated the largest revenue for the Mughal empire. But what happens after the   led by   obtains diwani or revenue collection rights from the emperor in 1764? There is rapacious exploitation fuelled by speculation. Tremendous drain of wealth.
 
 
 
 Very similar. Grain was taken from rural areas to feed people in Calcutta. So as millions of rural poor died, the upper and middle classes were by and large not affected. This was in 1770 as well as 1943. In 1943, everything was done in the name of the war effort. The northwestern parts of India from where the fighting troops were recruited by the British were well provided for. In Bengal, however, ruthless exploitation continued coupled with the ‘scorched earth policy’ strongly pursued to deny the Japanese resources if an invasion materialised. No thought was spared for Bengalis.
 
 
 
 Churchill would have liked the Indians had they been willing slaves. But Indians demanded freedom. He couldn’t tolerate that. And Churchill never forgot how Indian sepoys revolted in 1857. The structure of the military was changed after that. It was deployed abroad to fight wars, but at home, it was used to suppress Indians.
 
 
 
 Churchill rewrote history to burnish his image and write   into the war as the cornerstone of victory. The reality was that Germany was defeated by the Soviet Union. For Indians, the war was horrendous too. In fact, a huge number of American and British troops were stationed here apart from Italian and other POWs. They were all well fed at the expense of the Indians. This kind of exploitation was grotesque.
 
 
 
 Amartya Sen was careless in using the   estimate and letting the error recur in eight reprints. He says that certain groups of people have greater right or entitlement over others to food. I have no deep disagreement with Sen. I accept the idea of entitlement but would like to extend it to a global context, not just a local or national one. The British people had far more entitlement than Indians.
 
