KOLKATA: The panchayat poll on Monday left Kolkata commuters in the lurch. Nearly 75% of   were out in the districts carrying poll personnel and security forces to polling booths and back. West Bengal Transport Corporation, which caters to the city, ran its full fleet in an abortive attempt to plug the yawning demand-supply gap.

 
  
 
 The situation is not likely to swing back to normalcy before Friday (a day after the counting), given the volatile postpoll situation in rural Bengal. Security forces cannot be withdrawn till the counting is over.
 
 People travelling to work on Monday suffered a harrowing time trying to catch buses, which were too few. Even cabs were scarce. The only relief were autorickshaws, which plied at full strength . In Kolkata, the situation was a little better compared to that in Howrah where almost 90% private   were off the road.
 
 Tapan Bandyopadhyay of the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates said, “This is due to the single-phase election this time. Police in different districts requisitioned most of the buses for election purpose. As many as 4,190 buses plying on 303 city routes were taken off the road, leaving only 1,200-odd buses in the city. On some routes, we could have just one bus.”
 
 The situation has worsened since Friday as a majority of buses were taken off the road by the State Election Commission for conducting the polls. As there was less officebound traffic on Saturday and Sunday, their absence was not felt much. But on Monday, office-goers found very few buses on the roads. Those on the road were packed. “Even taxis are scarce,” said Arunagshu Ghosh, a banker, who struggled to get foothold on a packed Dalhousie-bound bus from Behala.
 
 The situation was no better on VIP Road. Most of the buses were crowded and commuters had to jostle for space. “I have been waiting for over 40 minutes to get a bus to Jadavpur,” said Jayanta Sarkar, an engineering student at JU.
 
 Passengers were also stranded at Howrah and Sealdah stations. Raipur resident Gunjan Tarafdar was tense as she urgently needed to travel to Science College, Alipore. Moreover, there were too few traffic police personnel. However, the lack of buses left little to be managed on the roads.
 
 
