BENGALURU: Four students were barred from taking the   (NEET) exam at the Army Public School, Kamraj Road centre on Sunday, when they arrived after gates closed at 9.30am. While one student was turned back at the gate, three students who scaled the gate were shooed away by police on security duty at the centre.

 Drama erupted when a girl from Hassan district, who arrived three minutes past the reporting deadline, climbed over the gate with assistance from her parents. She was caught by police and sent out of the centre.
 
 However, that did not deter two others — a boy from Hassan district and a girl aspirant from Anekal — who were also late by three minutes, from vaulting the gate. They too were helped over by anxious parents, but both were barred from taking the exam. The fourth candidate — a girl from Bengaluru — was not allowed to enter after they arrived late.
 
 The CBSE had set a reporting time between 7:30am and 9:30am, a schedule that was communicated to students and displayed on the website. The parents said that they had gotten caught up in traffic from the railway station to the centre. Other parents, who were locals, also complained of dense traffic around Shivajinagar and Commercial Street.
 
 Elsewhere, a few girls were asked to remove the niqab they were sporting before taking the exam. Hina (name changed) revealed she was frisked at the Kendriya Vidyalaya School centre on Victoria Road, but was eventually allowed to sit for the exam.
 
 “Administrative staffs, who were checking students before they entered the hall, asked me to remove my niqab and hijab,” Hina said. “I insisted on wearing them so they checked me and let me wear them.”
 
 Like Hina, Mubarak Satiqa (name changed), whose took the exam at Kendriya Vidyalaya School, Malleswaram, was also asked to remove her hijab, but eventually sat for the exam after being frisked. “Even the guards outside the centre stopped me, but I was determined to wear it,” she said.
 
 Students at the Malleswaram centre concurred that checking was strict. Some invigilators even checked the ears of students with a torch as a precaution against malpractice. 
 
 
