LUDHIANA: Khanna police have arrested four persons and seized 150 g of heroin, one and half kg of ganja ganja and more than Rs 16 lakh from various spots in the city. 

 In the first case, a police team under the supervision of assistant superintendent of police (Investigation) Ranjeet Singh had set up a check post to keep a check on suspicious vehicles and persons at the   on Friday at 4.30 pm. During the course of checking, cops stopped a car bearing registration number PB02BX-2393 coming from the   side.
 
 On being asked, the driver revealed his name was   of Aman Avenue on Majitha Road in Amritsar. Around 150 g of heroin was found in a polythene bag in the dashboard of the vehicle. Cops said the accused couldn’t produce the license for the consignment after which he was arrested. They added that the accused was booked under the NDPS act at Samrala Police station.
 
 Police said that the accused is being questioned and more disclosures on the drug trade are expected from him during the investigation. 
 
 In the second case,   police had set up a check post near a hospital on the canal bridge on GT Road at 5 pm on Friday. During checking, police saw two persons getting down from a bus coming from the Khanna side.
 
 Police said that the accused were walking towards the city and on seeing the cops they tried to run away but were caught. When caught, the accused identified themselves as Anand Sharma and Chander, both from Sirmor in  .
 
 Around 750 g of ganja from a polythene under the belt on the waist of Anand was seized and an equal quantity was recovered from the other accused. They added that the accused were arrested and booked under sections of NDPS ACT at Doraha police station.
 
 In the third case, Sadar Khanna police checked a bus comiong from the Delhi side. It added police searched the bag of Narinder Kumar Jain of Ward Number seven in Jaipur, currently residing in Kakrala, Delhi. 
 
 Police said that during checking, cops seized Rs 16, 18000 from the black bag of the accused who was arrested after he failed to produce any document for the money. 
 
 Cops said that   authorities have been informed about the accused and the recovery and they will investigate the matter further.
 
 
