GURUGRAM: Around 10 traffic police officials sat and sipped their afternoon tea at a side of the Gurugram-Delhi expressway at the  , preparing for the evening rush as a hydraulic lift raised a worker to install a signboard directing commuters to their lanes. On the signboard, a warning: next U-turn is only after 3km.

 The recently implemented diversions at Sirhaul have taken commuters by surprise. Misinformation, confusion dominated the minds of commuters the last week, with many taking to social media platforms to vent their anger at the changes. The chaos resulted in massive jams.
 
 How effective the additional police deployment and signage is will be known only on Monday when offices reopen.
 
 A regular commuter on this stretch wrote that lanes should have been allotted and commensurate infrastructure finalised by now, as soon as the toll plaza was removed. “People have got used to travelling without having to follow any directions on the stretch, and if you try to control it suddenly, they will resist,” he said.
 
 Resistance is rife among cab drivers, who are known to try avoid paying toll tax. On Thursday afternoon, two people wearing reflective jackets stood in the middle of the diversion which separates Delhi-bound private vehicles from commercial traffic, and tried to direct the latter towards the adjacent lane, which leads to a toll gate. But when some commercial vehicles sped away, a few were made to reverse and head back to their assigned lane, causing snarls. 
 
  Gurugram traffic officials said these snarls could be avoided if MCD officials penalise defaulters later, by carrying out random checks inside the city, instead of stopping them at this crucial stretch. “This is a major intersection. Vehicles from almost the entire city enter the expressway from under the flyover, and merge with those coming from the Jaipur side; and then diverge towards three different directions. Then there are commuters arriving from Kapashera and Udyog Vihar and merging into the traffic. All of them have to be controlled,” said a traffic official.
 
 Officials on the ground were extra vigilant on Thursday, what with the chief minister in town. While snarls were reported in the evening, between 6-8pm, traffic started flowing smoothly thereafter.
 
 Since the changes were implemented, the biggest problem on this stretch has been with commuters taking wrong lanes and then trying to cut across to their designated lane, blocking traffic on the way. “When commuters realise they are in the wrong lane and that they won’t get another exit to turn back before Mahipalpur, they panic and try to cut across several lanes, blocking traffic,” said a constable.
 
 Traffic cops, sitting in the police assistance booth on the Udyog Vihar side said they have been working on single shift from 7am to 11pm during the past week. They said they have been facing the brunt of people’s anger, as well as the stress of working overtime to implement the changes on the ground.
 
 
