Coimbatore: The cyber crime cell of the city police will approach the University of Glasgow in Scotland for the refund of Rs 35 lakh, which   P   had deposited there for pursuing an undergraduate course.

 “Shruthi had completed a foundation certificate course in Science in the university by paying Rs 10 lakh fee. She had later paid Rs 35 lakh to pursue an undergraduate course (Physics with Astro Physics) in the same university,” a police officer said.
 
 Shruthi, her mother Chitra, her brother Subash and accomplice Prasanna Venkatesh were arrested two weeks ago for duping software engineer Balamurugan of Rs 41.14 lakh. Shruthi had promised to marry him and cheated him of lakh of rupees and gold ornaments.
 
 Meanwhile, the woman, who is in police custody, revealed many details about her life, police sources said. “She told us that she got lakh of rupees from Balamurugan and bought 62 sovereigns of gold ornaments and a diamond ornament worth Rs 15.5 lakh. She invested Rs 5.50 lakh in a mutual fund and spent Rs 1.32 lakh on flight tickets and hotel expenses. She had deposits worth Rs 18.79 lakh in foreign banks. We also recovered 15 sovereigns of gold ornaments worth Rs 3.80 lakh from various financial establishments and 38 sovereigns of gold ornaments worth Rs 10 lakh from her house,” a police officer said.
 
 “We have taken measures to get back money deposited in foreign banks. A team is working to recover nine sovereigns of gold ornaments worth Rs 1.90 lakh from private banks. She had also pledged 58 sovereigns of gold ornaments at various private finance establishments,” the officer told TOI.
 
 The investigation revealed that Shurthi’s real father was one Harikumar. “She had forged a Plus Two certificate to show that Prasanna Venkatesh was her father,” the officer said.
 
 Shruthi had cheated Santhoshkumar of Namakkal of Rs 43.5 lakh in 2012 by promising to marry him. Using the same ploy, she later cheated Ramachandran of Nagapattinam of Rs 8.54 lakh, Kathiravan Ganesh of Udhagamandalam of Rs 4.84 lakh, Arunkumar from Bengaluru of Rs 8.43 lakh, Isakkimuthu of Tirunelveli of Rs 3 lakh, Amuthan Venkateshan from Chennai of Rs 4 lakh and Vijay from Krishnagiri of Rs 2.99 lakh. Whenever the victims demanded their money, Shruthi threatened them, saying that she would lodge a complaint against them before the national human rights commission,” the officer added.
 
 
