Nagpur: With   falling on Friday, there are many who have planned a getaway to avoid the boisterous revelry associated with the festival. But for those who are staying back to celebrate it with family and friends, environmental concerns are weighing them down. 
 
 “As much as I enjoy the festivities, Holi is a nightmare in terms of water wastage, burning of firewood and also the harmful chemical colours that are used,” says banker  . 
  
 It’s for this reason that herbal colours are the way to go for many this season. Once a niche product sold at high end stores, today with increased awareness, it is freely available at reasonable cost. 
  
 “Last year many of us had a reaction from chemical colours. So this year we will use only herbal colours,” says Nikhil Bhute, a commerce student. But in the markets it is still the mounds of chemical colours in various hues of green, red and pink that are selling. 
  
 “Herbal colours are still 50% costlier than chemical ones. People only talk about using herbal colours and end up buying chemical ones,” says Abir Mummain, a vendor in Itwari. “But I advise people not to buy pink colour as it is most harmful. It turns golden after application and is difficult to remove,” he cautions. 
  
 But diehard revellers have their own way of protecting themselves by using scary masks and hairy hand gloves with long nails. “Masks help protect facial skin,” says Suresh Devikar, another vendor in Itwari who sells them by the dozens. Half masks covering just eyes are also available in silver, golden and other shiny colours. “These are very popular among the youth,” he says. 
  
 Besides the water guns, colours and masks, the standard food items also add to the festivities. The most significant one being gathi strings made with sugar found mostly in Vidarbha and some parts of MP and Chhattisgarh. 
  
 “The gathi strings are presented to elders, newly-weds and young children on Holi to make them feel special. It is more of a social gesture than religious. With a political culture gradually evolving in the region, now gathis are painted with edible colours and decorated with plastic flowers and even mirrors, these special ones are presented to political bigwigs,” says Mohd Imran, who manufactures them at his shop in   area of Itwari. 
  
 But the spirit of Holi celebrations is best seen in big families. “Our entire family comes together to celebrate at one place,” says homemaker   “Special items likes dahi vada, khoya gujiyas and green pea kachoris are prepared and large amounts. After offering puja at the Holika dehan ritual a day before Holi, prasad is offered and family members apply colour to each other” she adds. 
  
  
