PATNA: Economist   on Tuesday said agriculture and its allied sectors were the fulcrum of Bihar’s economy.

 Speaking at a policy dialogue on “Towards Developing a Diversified Food System in   for Improving Nutritional Outcomes’ organized by Asian Development Research Institute ( ) in association with Tata Cornell Institute (TCI) in Patna on Tuesday, ADRI’s member-secretary Gupta said nearly 90% of the population dwelt in rural areas and was engaged in agricultural activities. However, agriculture generates less than a quarter of our Gross State Domestic Product.
 
 Talking about impulsive growth, Gupta pointed out, “Agriculture sector in the state grew at 5.6% during 2005-06 to 2014-15 compared to the national average of 3.6%. However, this growth has been volatile due to recurring floods and droughts, variability in rainfall and various other factors. As of now, most of the government incentives favour staples such as rice and wheat for diversification. These need to be extended to fruits and vegetables as well.”
 
 He said, “The third agriculture road map of Bihar has envisaged an organic corridor along the Ganges. For this, we need to introduce market incentives, improve infrastructure, design price support and certification of organic produce to encourage farmers to switch to organic cultivation.”
 
 TCI founding director   and state’s agriculture production commissioner Sunil Kumar Singh talked about ‘Food System Perspective on Agri-Nutrition’.
 
 Research for Indian Nutrition and Agriculture director Nikhil Raj, International Food Policy Research Institute director (South Asia) P K Joshi, Bihar Beej Nigam MD Himanshu Kumar and Integrated Child Development Services’ former director Praveen Kishore presented their papers in the first session which focused on ‘Diversifying Food in Bihar: Overcoming the Constraints’.
 
 While the second session was on ‘Animal Husbandry in Bihar’, the third and fourth sessions were on ‘Increasing Farmers’ Income through Improved Agriculture Markets and Value Chains in Bihar’ and ‘Summing up and the Road Ahead’, respectively.
 
 
