A pub in   is surprisingly buzzing on a Wednesday, a rare sight on a weekday. The crowd comprises regular office-goers between the ages 20 to 35, who are sitting in rapt attention amid nervous giggles as host   goes around with a mic in one hand and a sheet of paper in the other. As soon as he asks a question about a popular online TV series, tables erupt as people strain their hands like eager kids to answer it. Welcome to quiz night! Mumbai’s newest evening activity is getting patrons fill-up a pub mid-week, making it feel like a Friday night.

 
 
 Rizwan has been around the city’s pub quiz scene from the time it started catching steam almost a year ago. He believes the activity is addictive. Talking about it, he shares, “Before I started hosting, I attended the quiz night every week for a full year religiously; no misses. My primary motivation was the fun and of course, the reward you get for answering the questions.” 
 Vaidehi Krishnan, a costume designer in Marathi films, is a regular at quiz night. So hooked is she to the fun activity that she actually plans her work schedule around it. She says, “I make sure that I keep myself free for these quiz nights and organise my work around it. Since I have taken colleagues from work to these things, they know that 8 pm on Saturday is quiz night. They will either let me be or come along with me.”
 
 
 
 What makes quizzing interesting is the fact it encourages a lot of interaction and banter with everyone present at the club. “I don’t think twice before going alone to a quiz night because I know that I will see more than one familiar faces. The reason is we end up talking to other people. A lot of banter and exchange happens during the quiz. If anyone doesn’t get a really easy question, people go, ‘How could you not know that one?’” adds Vaidehi. 
 Mumbai-based engineer  , who has been quizzing since he was in college, says he has no qualms going alone to a quiz. He shares, “If there’s no one coming on a particular night, I have no issues about going alone. In fact, most of my social circle currently comprise those who I met at such quiz nights. And because there is so much cross-talk, one can easily make friends. If not, you can always play solo.”
 
 
  
 
 
 One of the main reasons quizzing is fun is because of the questions chosen by the hosts. Says Rizwan, “The level of questions is not that tough as there is no intention to make anyone feel dumb. We don’t want to do that. What we have is a mix of pop culture, sports, TV shows and general entertainment.” 
 Vaidehi agrees, “The questions, if you look at them, force you to think. I have friends who have said that they don’t know anything, but have walked away answering at least three to four questions. So that way, you feel like you’ve owned it.” Sample these: ‘What name is shared by the first solo album ever done by a Beatle and a song from Oasis’ second album, '(What’s The Story) Morning Glory?'’ or ‘A socially relevant film, which reminds you of caste-violence and then makes you forget it because of that one song that makes everyone dance without inhibitions?’
 Quiz master  , who has organised quizzing events in both Mumbai and Pune, says that they actually curate questions according to the areas. “So, in places like an Andheri, where we have a lot of crowd connected to films, we ask questions based on films and music. While other places like  , we will have more trivia about sports or travel. We even have a dance-off at some places. The main object is to keep things fun, competitive and entertaining,” he ends.
 
 
 
 These hatke scenarios have party animals getting together over an array of lip-smacking food, heady cocktails and great conversations!
 
 
  Bars and restaurants across the city, hosting these parties, provide party-goers with easels, palette knives, stretched canvases, colours and brushes. 
 
 
 
 Self-explanatory, these parties added a healthy twist to the fun — fashion, music, dancing, healthy food combined with fitness at night or dawn. 
 
 
 
 Not all clubs cater only to millennials. There are some high-end nightclubs that boast of vintage decor, massive dance floor, classic pop music, faux library, have a dress code and are unabashedly, expensive.
 
 
 
 Pop-up night parties, where villas, row houses or warehouses transform into a club for the night — crowds, deejays, loud music et al. There is no fixed address.
 
 
 With the idea to bring underground clubbing out of the dark room, this international trend is making its way here. It emphasises on production, costumes and larger-than-life themes.
 
 
 
 Again a party with no address. It’s an all-night party at a secret location sans headbanging, harsh lights and sounds. Pure music, poetry and stand-ups. 
 
