JAIPUR: In a first, the   Regulatory Authority ( ),   on Tuesday has taken action against four developers who were allegedly violating the norms. 

 The authority imposed fine on two developers, while it issued showcause notices to two developers for advertising their projects without getting registered under the RERA (Rajasthan). 
 
 Developers of two housing projects, Ginni Homes and Galaxy Manglam Grand City, were imposed with penalty of four times project fee for not depositing required documents even after registering the project online with RERA.
 
 An official said, “These two developers have violated section 3 of RERA Act 2016. The authority has provided 15 days time to deposit the penalty. In case, the developers fail to adhere to the given deadline, the authority will cancel the project registration and take action as per the norms.” 
 
 Similarly, notices were issued under Section 35(1) under the RERA Act 2016 to   and Manglam builders for advertisement of project without prior registration.
 
 The notice dated January 9 read, “Notice is issued in exercise of powers conferred u/s 35(1) of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 for contravention of section 3 and 11 of the Act committed by you as the advertisement, market, book, sale or offer for sale or invite person to purchase in any manner, any plot , apartment or building in the real estate project prior to registration of the sale under the said Act is prohibited.” 
 
 The authority has directed these developers to stop such illegal action immediately and explain in writing within the seven days. “The authority would impose penalty if these developers are found guilty. In case, the explanation is not submitted within given time, the authority may pass necessary decision in accordance with the law,” further reads the notice.
 
  was allegedly found guilty for publishing advertisement in newspaper inviting booking for Manglam Aroma project in Patrakar Colony. Similarly, Shubham Group allegedly published advertisement for Shyam Vatika, a residential township, which is coming up on Diggi Road. 
 
 The RERA was introduced with an aim to bring more transparency in the existing system and protect the interest of home buyers. As majority of developers have registered their ongoing projects in the state with (RERA) in urban areas, the residents can heave a sigh of relief. 
 
 The consumers wishing to register their complaints with the regulatory authority can go ahead after seeing the registered project profile on the RERA online portal, in case they feel duped. Those who have booked their flats in a residential complex and their developer has not registered on portal can also inform the authority.
 
 Developers also believe that the transparency in the system would benefit the consumers. “Majority of genuine and serious builders have registered their ongoing projects with RERA. The new system will eradicate non-serious developers from the market,” said a member of CREDAI.
 
 
