BENGALURU: “You must become the CEO of your life by taking charge of it and must become more patient, accepting and brave. Also, you can’t leave everything to your doctor. He can help to a large extent but one has to draw strength from oneself to deal with it (cancer).” This is what Canadian-Indian actor and cancer survivor   had to say when asked how much of the   was about being able to access the best treatment.

 Lisa, who was in Bengaluru on Monday to take part in the ‘I Can Sir’ campaign launched by   to create awareness on cancer and timely medical intervention, toldTOIin an emailinteraction: “I can talk only for myself”. The actor, who has been championing the cause for cancer awareness, said she has developed her own value system. “My journey has taught me to give back to society. I believe in paying it forward, which is important so that people learn to be positive during cancer,” she said.
 
 The actor said that she was not haunted by the ‘why me’ question when cancer struck. Instead, she ended up writing a blog called Yellow Diaries, narrating “her emotional journey of cancer and life thereafter”. She said cancer has transformed her life in many ways.“I have stopped worrying about trivial things. I take life as it comes and consider it a blessing and opportunity to learn, grow and transform. It’s important to have the right attitude when you are diagnosed with cancer, which will help in healing. For me, life has been healthier post recovery,” said Lisa, who’s penning a book on her battle.
 
 While there is stigma attached to cancer, Lisa is among the few persons who came out publicly. “I did not hesitate from making public appearances. I lost hair and gained weight but I took these changes in my stride and they didn’t impact me too much. I practise yoga and meditation, and often undergo detox therapies which give me energy. Overall, I lead a healthy life,” she said.
 
 Stressing the need to spread awareness, she said women always put themselves last, which is wrong. “Women tend nottolook after themselvesbecausethey are always responsible for running the entire family. So, there is a fear in their mindsthat if something happens tothem, how willtheir family function. They shouldn’t be targeted or feel   if they lose their hair. Women should understand thatthere ishope. We need to promote a  ,” she said.
 
 
