MANALI: Widespread snowfall has rejuvenated the tourism industry of the state, which was witnessing a slump due to dry weather conditions. Despite snowfall being nominal, it has worked as a saviour for tourism, agriculture, horticulture and drinking water schemes.

 According to hoteliers, less than 10% of their rooms were occupied before snowfall but now they were receiving large number of enquiries from tourists. Gulaba, Fatru, Hamta and nearby tourist places of Manali were seen covered with snow. On Wednesday, a large number of tourists thronged Fatru in Solang valley to enjoy the fresh snow. Manali Hoteliers Association president Gajender Thakur said weather had turned pleasant after snowfall and tourist inflow was expected to increase in the town. “Hoteliers have got enquiries for this weekend. Hopefully, we will have a good crowd in February too. We have enough snow at Gulaba. Hoteliers are praying for heavy snowfall so that it gets stocked on hills and tourists will get to see snow in summer,” he said.
 
 Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s home constituency Seraj also experienced snowfall. Some people reportedly got stuck between Thunag and Janjehli late on Tuesday. They were able to proceed to their destination on Wednesday after snow started melting. Tourists have also thronged tourist destinations of Shimla and Chamba, which also received snow.
 
  president   said many times it does not snow in January and heavy snowfall occurs in February and March. “We expect good snowfall next month. If we get good snow on hills, including  , only then it will last till June. Lakhs of tourists visit Himachal only to see snow at Rohtang in summer. If February passes dry, it will be real matter of concern,” he said.
 
 People were expecting to wake up to a thick layer of snow on Wednesday morning but snowfall stopped during night and the skies turned clear. Himachal will celebrate its statehood day at Anni in Kullu district on Thursday. Snow has blocked Kullu-Anni road at   pass and many people are now planning to reach Anni via Karsog in Mandi. However, the PWD has pressed its JCB machines into service to clear snow.
 
 
