Apart from producing sportspersons, Gurugram has now begun to train and nurture budding sportsperson from other cities as well. On December 28, 13-year-old   set a new Guinness World Record in the lowest limbo ice skating at the city's iSkate  . The Nagpur-based skater crossed 11 evenly-spaced limbo bars over the 10m course, at a jaw-dropping height of 17.7cm. This is the first time a record has been attempted in this category. For Shrishti’s record to be accepted, the adjudicators from   had set a minimum height requirement of 20cm for the bars. However, she managed to cross the bars at an even lower height of 17.7cm, setting a new record. Although final confirmation of the record from Guinness officials is awaited, Shristi and her family are confident that pretty soon, the Guinness medal will be around her neck.

 
 
  
  13-year-old Shristi Sharma from Nagpur attempting to set a world record in Gurugram
 
 Shristi hails from Nagpur, but has trained for her record attempt and learnt ice skating in Gurugram. Talking about her record, she says, "It was a very proud moment. This was difficult because ice skating is relatively new for me, and I can only train for it when I am in Gurugram since my hometown does not have any skating rink. The first thing I did after completing my record was hug my father."
 
 Shristi has been a skater since the age of four. Initially, the Nagpur girl participated in local races and competition, graduating to state-level and national competitions soon. It was in 2011 that she turned her attention from races to limbo skating, a very specialized form of skating where skaters attempt to pass under bars kept at a very low height, doing almost a 180 degree split. 
 
  
  Shristi Sharma
 
 "I was browsing   videos one day when I came across a boy doing limbo, and I told my father I wanted to try this too," says Shristi. Pretty soon, she was setting national and international records in limbo skating. But in a bid to try something even more niche, in 2014, she turned to limbo skating on ice, something that had never been attempted in India before.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Shristi’s father  , who works as a driver with Coal India, tells us, "Three years ago at the National Skating Championships, the J&K state team coach saw her doing limbo splits during practice for fun, and suggested we should try doing something new because he felt Shristi was exceptionally talented. He told us to try doing limbo skating on ice." However, Nagpur doesn’t have any ice skating facilities. "We came to know that Gurugram has an ice skating rink that is operational year-round, so we come here for practice now," says Dharmendra. The father-daughter duo are regulars to Gurugram now, staying here for several weeks at a time, when Shristi trains.
 
 
  
  
 
 Ice skating doesn't come naturally to Shristi. "There is greater chance of injury in it and I can only train when I am in Gurugram, which makes it tough, since I have to be in Nagpur when schools are on. I only come here during my break and vacations," she says. Shristi and her family came to Gurugram in August 2017 for five weeks when she trained and first attempted the record but could not achieve it. She returned to the city in December, training for a week again and made her second attempt. "In my first attempt in August, I could not set a record as I couldn’t balance. You have to bend your ankles at 90 degrees, which is difficult and can also cause injury if not done properly. Lack of training stopped me then. So, we decided to try again in December," Shristi tells us. 
 
  
  
 
 
 However, the Nagpur girl is not done yet. "I will keep attempting and breaking more records in skating and ice skating. But my ultimate goal is to represent India in the Olympics. And I also want to continue my studies and become a doctor and join the Indian Army," says the 13-year-old.
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
