GURUGRAM: A month on from the leak that made headlines, students were all smiles after giving their Class-XII economics  . CBSE had decided to hold the exam again, in the light of arrests made by Delhi Police, and following investigations into the leak.

 Overall, teachers expressed satisfaction with the   paper, while students were relieved the agonising wait was over. 
 
 “The preparation was far better the first time. Now, the preparations and dedication was badly affected and highly compromised,” said Anikant Jain, who teaches economics at  . “The least CBSE can do to provide justice to the genuine students is mark the papers leniently.”
 
 Vanya Mittal, a class-XII student at Salwan Public School, echoed the thoughts of many. “The exam went off well,” she said. “I was stressed before the exam but it went better than the previous one.”
 
 But, according to teachers, Wednesday’s paper was as difficult as the earlier one. “It was a good question paper, though level of difficulty was the same as it was last time. Students are happy, expecting to score good marks. I am happy as well, as students’ efforts and prolonged wait is going to earn them good result,”  , economics teacher at Ryan International School, Bhondsi, told TOI.
 
 The Class-XII economics paper was leaked on March 23, three days before the scheduled date of the examination, according to Delhi Police. The leak was exposed after an envelope containing four images of the handwritten economics paper was delivered to the CBSE headquarters in Delhi on March 26, the evening of the scheduled date of examination.
 
 For conducting the re-test, the board had reasoned that, “Class-XII exams are a gateway to higher education, and various professional competitive exams which have limited seats.... Therefore, giving undue advantage to a handful of beneficiaries of the alleged leak of the economics paper would not be in larger interest of the students.”
 
 Lakshita Khandpal, a class-XII student at DPSG Palam Vihar, admitted it was disappointing for students to see all that hard work and effort go to waste. “It didn’t even feel like ‘the boards’ anymore,” shared Lakshita. But many students also felt the re-test was the right way forward.
 
