Vadodara: The Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) has taken possession of properties owned by Danke Electricals Ltd (DEL) and the residential flat of its director Amit Patel for their failure to repay a loan of over Rs 31 crore. The Alkapuri branch of IOB stated in a public notice that in February 2018, it had issued a demand notice asking DEL to repay over Rs 31 crore to the bank within 60 days.

 But DEL that manufactures power equipment failed to repay the loans following which the bank took possession of its properties on April 24. The bank has in its notice warned people to not deal with DEL’s properties. The properties attached by IOB include factories, plots and buildings of DEL in Waghodia GIDC along with Patel’s luxurious flat Vicenza Meridien on Vasna-Bhayli Road.
 
 Patel was president of Federation of Gujarat Industries (FGI) and a close associate of Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd (DPIL) managing director, Amit Bhatnagar who is currently in the CBI custody for defrauding banks of Rs 2,654 crore. DEL was incorporated in January 1995 and apart from Amit Patel, the company has two other directors, Mayank Patel and Hiren Patel.
 
 “The bank has taken symbolic possession of our properties but the matter is disputed. We had submitted a restructuring proposal to IOB in 2012 when our outstanding loan was about Rs 15 crore. The proposal was accepted by IOB in 2016 with the condition that we will infuse fresh Rs 7 crore in the company and IOB will waive off the overdue interest till restructuring happens,” Patel told TOI.
 
 “We infused the money but after some months, IOB debited Rs 9.92 crore from our account. We have been fighting it out with the bank since then as what they did was against the restructuring proposal. IOB even refunded us Rs 1.80 crore in March 2017. In February this year, we suddenly got the notice to pay the entire debt amount. We have represented our case to the bank after they took the possession,” Patel added.
 
 According to registrar of companies website, Patel is disqualified to become director in any new company from 2016 to 2021. “One of the small companies in which I was director had forgotten to file returns and it closed down in 1999. So I was disqualified as per the rules. We have now applied to National Company Law Tribunal to revive that company so that we can complete the formalities and close it,” he said.
 
 Amit Patel was director in 11 companies most of which merged in DEL. DPIL had in 2012 acquired stake in Maktel Systems Pvt Ltd that has Patel as one of its directors. As former FGI president, Patel was closely involved in organizing SWITCH – a World Electrical Buyers Summit 
 
 Bhatnagar sent to judicial custody
 
 The promoter of Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd (DPIL), Amit Bhatnagar, was sent to judicial custody after his police remand got over on Monday. Their advocates have filed bail applications for Amit, his younger brother Sumit and father Suresh Bhatnagar before the special CBI court, which has posted hearing on them on Thursday. The Batnagars were arrested by CBI on charges of Rs 2,654-crore bank fraud. They have also been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 
