NEW DELHI: In at least 7-8% cases out of all asthma  , the symptoms do not improve despite strong medications.

 Such patients have a new hope. A novel therapy that involves mildly heating the walls of the windpipe using radio-frequency   waves treat the condition without the side-effects associated with steroids usually prescribed to such patients.
 
 It has been in use in the West for a few years, and in India some chest physicians are now making use of it to treat severe   patients.
 
 Mukesh Garg (60) is one such patient. He had been suffering from the disease which is characterised by frequent coughs and breathlessness for over two decades. Lately, his condition deteriorated so much that Garg had to be hospitalised.
  
  
 “He had to be put on a high dosage of antibiotics and oral steroids. It can cause severe side-effects if required on a prolonged basis. So we offered to treat him with bronchial thermoplasty (BT),” said Dr Arup Basu, senior chest physician at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.
 
 He added that BT is done with a specialised catheter inserted during normal bronchoscopy (visualising the airways like endoscopy) in three sittings, three weeks apart. Some patients experience relief with just two sittings.
 
 “It entails application of radiofrequency waves to the airway (wind pipes), which raises the temperature to almost 65 degrees Celsius. This heating removes the ability of the windpipes to narrow by 80% permanently, specially when exposed to pollutants, allergens etc,” Dr Basu said.
 
 Post-BT therapy, the doctor claims Garg’s symptoms have improved significantly. BT therapy costs about Rs 1.5 lakh per sitting which is costly. “The main cost is of the catheter, which is imported. While in the west, a new catheter is used for each sitting, in India some hospitals are re-using one catheter to reduce the cost. It’s equally effective and safe,” said a doctor.
 
 In India, there are nearly 18-20 million people suffering from asthma. The airways in such patients are narrower than normal, which makes it difficult for the air to pass freely through them. This leads to feeling of breathlessness or chest tightness. Broncho dilators are the first line of treatment, followed by inhalers. But when both fail to relieve symptoms, oral steroids have to be given which has known side-effects. BT therapy is a newer option, say experts.
 
 
