PUNE: With the May 31 deadline drawing close, the state’s education department is feeling the pressure to meet the target of getting separate — and fully functional —   for girls and boys in   across  . 

 
  
 
 As per a letter from the ministry of human resource development (MHRD), all states must ensure the availability and functionality of gender-seggregated toilets in all schools within a month. The letter also seeks an action taken report by May 31.
 
 However, the 2016-17 data of available with the Unified District Information System for Education (U-DISE) paints a grim picture in the state. As per the data, in Maharshtra, as many as 2,442 aided-schools did not have properly-working girls’ toilets, while 2,856 aided schools did not have functional toilets for boys.
 
 When a senior official at the Primary Education Directorate was contacted, he put the responsibility on the Vidya Parishad — the erstwhile Maharashtra State Council of Education, Research and Training. An official at the Vidya Parishad said it was Primary Education Directorate’s job to meet this toilet target.
 
 Meanwhile, education secretary Nandkumar said, “Repairing dysfunctional toilets is a continuous process. Every school has to do it on its own. They need not wait for any outside agencies.”
 
 Activists believe while the state may be successful in building separate toilet blocks for boys and girls, it would not be able to meet the criteria of having fully functional toilets. They believe even the number of dysfunctional toilets mentioned by U-DISE is misleading as running water is a distant dream in many rural schools.
 
 “First, you need running water in school toilets. However, in many villages, running water isn’t available even in the homes. Second, even if running water is available, you need someone to clean the toilets. But the government gives no money to schools to hire a person to clean toilets. As a result, the toilets become unusable and are shunned by students and teachers,” said an activist.
 
 A school teacher said, “The onus is on the government to make sure that the toilets are functional. How can they expect the teachers to make provisions for cleaning toilets? They tell us to get it done through community participation, but that is not always possible. Parents take offence if students are made to clean the toilets. Apart from teaching and performing non-teaching work, does the government expect us to clean the toilets too?”
 
 
