Once the perpetual desi damsel on the big screen,   has now transformed. While her choices in terms of films are evidently braver than before, she has also visibly begun to dare fashion cops with her sartorial selections.  , who is not in a tearing hurry to pick everything that comes her way, says, “For me, the benchmark is: does this push me to do something different? If the answer is yes, I am on.” Here are excerpts from her quick chat with BT…

 
 
 Actually, it’s not a conscious thought. I’ve been instinctive from my first film. If I like a script, I do the movie and if I don’t, I politely turn down the offer. Luckily, a lot of roles have been coming my way in recent times, which have pushed me to do something different. There was a time when I worked in films which belonged to a similar space, but now, I am working across genres and that is exciting. For me, the benchmark is: ‘Does this push me to do something different?’ If the answer is yes, I am on.
 
 
 
 I like comedy as a genre. It’s India’s first stage reality film, which has a brilliant concept. Today is the time to run risks, which is what I have done in some of my recent films. I am open to experiments and I am progressively doing just that. When I was told about the idea, I was on board immediately. Shooting the film was a lot of fun, but also very chaotic. We shot it abroad at an award show. It was a one-of-its-kind experience. None of us had ever done something like this. Our own colleagues (Bollywood stars) would keep us on stand-by till they had the time to shoot their cameos. They would give us time at odd hours and we’d be shooting all day and all night. 
 
 
 
 We share a fantastic relationship; without it, I wouldn’t be where I am. Someone somewhere pushed me to do better; criticism worked like a propeller for me. The impact is more psychological and internal than physical. So, for instance, if someone assumes that I can’t do a certain thing, I make it a point to shut them up with some kickass work in the said space. I am rebellious in that manner and I have been that way since I can remember. I want to prove my detractors wrong and I think that’s the way to take criticism. I don’t mind it; keep it coming and it will push me to do better.
 
 
 What matters to me is what my family and closest friends say. My mother criticises my work, but I know that she has my best interest at the core of her heart. She gives me a reality check. My father is exactly the opposite; he never criticises, which I think is a problem (laughs). I think he should, because it would help me. I also have my friends who have been with me from the time I was in school and college. They’ve seen me through the years, and are very honest about my work. They come to my movies and laugh at some of them and joke about them. That kind of criticism is essential and it’s also 
 very important because they represent that part of the audience that I can’t directly connect with. 
 
 
 Yes, and I am back as Rajjo. I am glad that it has been confirmed by Arbaaz Khan and   (producer and director, respectively). I am excited to get back to the project after so many years. I have a great equation with Salman, Arbaaz and Prabhu sir. It’s fun working with people who are connected with each other.
 
 
 I think that’s a great and positive step, but I disagree with the thought that all actresses were props or decorations in our films. Women always had their part to play. Look at Madhuri Dixit, Karisma Kapoor, Sridevi…the personality of these women and their persona on screen was outstanding. They lent so much to the parts they played in their films. If you do something with all your heart, it’s a part done well. Today, the audience is open to seeing women perform heroic acts on screen. Earlier, they wanted to see men doing herogiri, but that is not the case anymore. You know, when I was shooting ' ' with AR Murugadoss, he treated me the way he treated   on the set of 'Holiday: A Soldier Is Never Off Duty'. It gives you a sense of confidence and such equal treatment is very gratifying for an artiste. This is how it should be.
 
 
 Way to go! I did TV and films simultaneously. Web is a big medium today. Internet is booming in terms of the quality of content. I would love to do something on it because everything boils down to the role. The lines are blurred in terms of the medium, at least for the creative workforce. People are glued to their phones and that’s the audience that we’re all looking to cater, no?
 
