AHMEDABAD: Union minister of commerce and industries, Suresh Prabhu, said that the government is making efforts to promote khadi as a globally accepted fabric.   was in Ahmedabad on Friday to inaugurate ‘Farm to Fashion – Indian Textile Global Summit 2018’, organized by   and Maskati Cloth Market Mahajan (MCMM).

 “We want to promote khadi as a globally accepted fibre and are making focused efforts towards this. We have asked the Indian Institute of Fashion Technology (IIFT) to work on a new course on this, which will be launched soon. Side by side, we are also exploring international markets for khadi including Australia and South Africa. We also want to encourage FDI in this segment,” said Prabhu.
 
  He also emphasized on creating an entire ecosystem for textile industry to flourish. “Gujarat being the largest cotton producing state, must create an ecosystem, which includes weavers, textile processors, manufacturers and most importantly, farmers who are at the root of the industry,” he added.
 
 CM Vijay Rupani, who was also present at the inauguration of the summit, emphasized the need to create a complete textile value chain in Gujarat. “Textile and apparels is one of the largest job-creating sectors in the state and we are ready to support the industry with an open mind. Being the largest cotton producer and exporter, the industry should now focus on completing the entire value chain for better employment opportunities as well as help farmers boost their income,” he said. Rupani also spoke of the textile policy which had been introduced in the state and has given a major boost to the industry. Industry stakeholders, too, said there was need for a comprehensive textile policy. 
 
 “On the lines of Goods and Services Tax (GST) implementation, we want the government to consider one nation, one textile policy, which will benefit the industry significantly,” said Shailesh Patwari, president, GCCI. GCCI and MCMM submitted a white paper to the Union minister, comprising recommendations for forming a single textile policy for the country on the lines of ‘One Nation One Policy’.
 
 Union minister of state for agriculture and farmers welfare,  , lauded the summit’s focus on the farming sector. “It is time we reconsider the importance of farmers, being the most important link in the fashion value chain. Contract farming and cooperative model in agriculture define the way forward,” Rupala said.
 
 
