CHANDIGARH: Acting on the grievances, petitions, representation related to the various long-pending issues related to Chandigarh and its residents, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) has swung into action and sent a list of around dozen of such public complaints to the UT administration to solve them. Complainants had directly sent these complaints to the   and after scrutinising the same, the MHA has sent a two-page letter of these complaints to the UT administration, asking them to take appropriate action under the intimation to the ministry.

 
  
 
 Since the list of complaints, copy of which is with TOI, sent to the Chandigarh administration carries both public issues and personal matters, long-pending issues of the Chandigarh industrial properties, issues related to changing the zones of the small scale industries to fetch more property tax, those regarding the provision of flats and shelter for the ex-servicemen, grant of pension switching over from CPF to GPF-cum-pension scheme in case of privately managed government-aided college of Chandigarh, service rules for the various posts of the Chandigarh engineering department, to conduct Chandigarh police exams offline, vacation of unauthorised possession of   in old   in Chandigarh are some of the crucial issues listed in the list of MHA, forwarded to the Chandigarh administration for the consideration and proper outcome.
 
 Significantly, out of these complaints, some of the issues are long pending. The issues related to the industries are due since past many years. The industrialists have been running from pillar to post to get their issues resolved, but nothing happened on the ground so far. In fact, many meetings and deliberations also took place between the industrials and the concerned officers of the UT administration, but no concrete result came out from such meetings.
 
 M P S Chawla, president of  , who sent a letter to MHA, raising the issues of the industries said, “I had raised the issues of industries in my letter to MHA, requesting to settle such long-pending issues. There is a need of high-power committee led by Chandigarh administrator, having the members of MHA and members of Chandigarh industries, so that prompt decisions can be taken after discussing the issues here only, instead of sending the issue to MHA.”
 
 Shakti Prakash Devshali, municipal councillor, who made complaint to MHA and also gave representation to Union home minster Rajnath Singh personally for regarding the zones of the small-scale industries of the city, said, “The municipal corporation (MC) changed the zones of the industries from zone B to zone A to fetch more tax money. In fact, all such industries are situated just along the slum area of colony number 4, but they were put in zone A to procure more tax. If authorities are not able to provide facilities, why their zone has been changed just to make money? These small industries are not in the posh areas or along the highways, which can be put in higher tax incurring zone.”
 
 
 
