Vadodara: The Mahisagar police arrested a couple who had cheated people in central Gujarat as well as Surat. It is believed that the husband-wife duo are suspected to have conned citizens to the tune of Rs 15crore and amassed a lot of wealth, a part of which has already been unearthed. Mahisagar district police had been investigating a case of cheating against Ketan Damor and his wife Laxmi Damor, who had opened offices at various locations and promised a series of services and good returns to gullible people. The couple had begun by working as insurance agents and started a firm by the name of Lifecare Pvt Ltd in Surat in 2008. In 2010, they floated a company named SNC Company in Vadodara. While Ketan became the chief executive officer of the company, Laxmi was made the managing director. The duo also appointed directors under them and started business. The company was dealing in insurance, modern agriculture, land development, dairy farming and other projects. It even started procuring agriculture produce and commodities from farmers promising them handsome returns. The company opened its offices at Surat, Chhota Udepur district, Mahisagar district and Vadodara. It has so far come to light that the company had opened six offices. According to the police, the company used to collect produce from farmers but never paid them. Also, they collected large amounts of money from investors with promises of giving them doubled returns in a period of five years and seven months. However, the money was never returned to most investors and the couple went missing since 2014. While an offence was registered against them at Lunawada in 2015, they managed to evade arrest so far.  Mahisagar police started working on the case again last year. The police zeroed down upon the duo in Saurashtra and ascertained that they had been moving between Junagadh and Rajkot. A team of sleuths from the Mahisagar police camped in Rajkot for over a month to trace them. The couple was eventually nabbed from the Kotharia Road in Rajkot. The police has also unearthed investments of the couple worth Rs seven crore.