MADURAI: It was an impressive start for city boy Sam George Sajan in the international arena as he finished sixth at the recently-held Junior World Cup shooting competition organised by   (ISSF) at Sydney in Australia. He was the only Indian in the 50 metre rifle 3 position category to get into the finals.

 With the impressive performance, he has secured second position among the junior-level shooters in India. Sajan, a third year student of American College, has no time to bask in the achievement since he has a hectic schedule ahead. “I do not think much about the future and all my focus is on the national trial which is scheduled in a few days in Delhi,” he grins when asked what his ultimate aim in the sport was.
 
 Madurai rifle club, where Sam George Sajan started shooting as a hobby during a summer camp in 2012, has produced many quality shooters. Many of them are now shining in the international arena. Though rifle clubs function in all the 32 districts in the state, the ones in Chennai, Coimbatore and Madurai are active. Madurai may lag behind Chennai and Coimbatore in terms of infrastructure, but when it comes to producing talent, the district stands out. “Chennai has six electronic targets and Coimbatore four whereas Madurai has only two. It helps to improve the accuracy of the shooters and it is being used in national and the international sports. It requires more than Rs 3 lakh to install one,” says secretary of Madurai rifle club, S Vel Shankar.
 
 Despite the shortfall, Madurai has been producing quality shooters at the national and international level. Madurai has at present six international shooters in V Sarvesh Swaroop Shankar, P Ajaey Nithish, C Sam George Sajan, B Mithlesh and C Kavirakshana. According to Vel Shankar, Chennai has only one international shooter, whereas Coimbatore has three. The shooters from Madurai have bagged several state and national level medals besides quite a few international medals too.   and   put the city on the international map when they secured silver and bronze medals respectively at the junior world cup held in Azerbaijan in 2016.
 
 The rifle club in Madurai was started in 1956, a year after Coimbatore got it. These clubs were started throughout the country based on a government policy in 1954 to produce trained shooters. In the beginning, the police used to train the members at the firing ranges belonging to them. It was after the seventies, when the club conducted its first competition, that it was provided with its own shooting range.
 
 “Then Governor of the state, K K Shaw, took part in the competition and came to know about the lack of facility. He ordered the then district collector to provide a piece of land,” said Vel Shankar. Although there are many talented shooters in the junior category in India, it is the senior level which gets all the attention. The best possible coaching should be given at the junior level itself to for better results in the international arena, said another office-bearer of the club. 
 
 
