KOLKATA:   Banerjee left for Bengaluru on Tuesday to attend Karnataka chief minister-designate H D Kumaraswamy’s swearing-in ceremony on Wednesday that is going to turn into a gathering of party leaders opposed to BJP. 

 Kumaraswamy had invited the West Bengal chief minister to the programme.
 
 Analysts are keeping an eye on the event where   leader Sonia Gandhi and party president Rahul Gandhi are among the special guests along with Banerjee and other regional leaders. Some of the regional party leaders such as Telangana CM K Chandrashekar Rao have proposed an anti-BJP front minus Congress. The Bengal CM didn’t endorse the plan but she held that Congress should join the front as an “equal partner”, leaving it to coalition constitutents to choose their leader. 
 
 Banerjee already has a good rapport with the other invitees who include BSP leader Mayawati, AAP leader and Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah, TRS’ K Chandrashekar Rao, Andhra Pradesh CM and TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu, and DMK leader Stalin.
 
 Kumarswamy has also invited Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik, former CMs Oommen Chandy of Kerala and Prafulla Kumar Mahanta of Assam, CPM leader Sitaram Yechury, CPI’s D Raja to the oath-taking ceremony.
 
 While leaving for Bengaluru, the Bengal CM hit out at the changes proposed by the Narendra Modi government on allocation of service to successful IAS/IPS/IFS candidates. Banerjee held that any tampering with the UPSC merit list would give way to political nepotism. 
 
 “The Centre is trying to erode institutions. How can the government make amends to the merit list prepared by the UPSC? This will lead to a constitutional crisis,” she said, a day after Congress in Delhi came out against the Centre’s proposals. 
 
 According to sources, credits obtained in the “foundation course” during training of candidates will gain primacy in the allocation of services instead of the prevailing system of allocating services based on UPSC rankings. 
 
 Banerjee also shared the concern expressed by Archbishop of Delhi Anil Couto over political turbulence throwing up challenges to the Constitution. “I fully agree with the Archbishop. We have great regard and respect for all the communities. I respect all archbishops all over the country. Whatever he said is correct and it is a fact,” the CM said.
 
 
