NOIDA: Citing deteriorating law and order situation in sector 137, residents took to streets on Sunday and demanded for a police station in the area. While kids held posters stating 'We feel unsafe due to kidnapping,' women held placards saying 'We feel unsafe due to chain snatching and men held posters saying 'We feel unsafe due to mobile snatching.' 

 With over 70,000 residents living in the sector, the overall sentiments were a feeling of insecurity in the area due to increased incidents of mobile/chain snatching, car jacking, breaking of car glasses, kidnapping theft etc and a non-active police / administration. 
 
 "Due to recent spurt in criminal activities and ineffectiveness of policing we held a protest near   in the sector against police administration on Sunday. The purpose of the protest was to ensure a police station for the sector along with a police chowki and cameras to monitor movement of criminal activities and deter crimes in the area" said Abhisht Gupta, a resident of sector 137.
 
 Currently crimes in the sector are handled by sector 144 police chowki which is clearly unable to cater to increased incidents of crime as per residents with their limited manpower. 
 
 The residents of the sector have been complaining of the problem since long. "Due to recent increase in criminal activities in sector 137, resident fear to roam in their vicinity even in the broad day light. Crimes like car theft, mobile snatching, chain snatching, kidnapping, attempt to kidnap, breaking car glass and stealing valuables have taken place in the broad day light," said Gipta.
 
 Residents have protested against such activities on November 11, 2017 and given letters to CM, SSP, DM, SPRA, thana in-charge, chowki in-charge, Noida Authority,  , Noida MLA Pankaj Singh and MP Mahesh Sharma.
 
 While a letter resquesting increased patrolling and a police station was sent to chief minister Yogi Adityanath earlier last year, a similar letter was sent to senior superintendent of police Love Kumar, district magistrate B N Singh, Noida authority, Dadri MLA Tejpal Singh Nagar, Noida MLA Pankaj Singh and member of parliament Dr Mahesh Sharma.
 
 Even as Sharma visited the sector on Nov 27, 2017 and promised a separate police station and wrote to UP home secretary on the matter, Dadri MLA Tejpal Singh Nagar also requested a police station for the sector on December 12, 2017.
 
 But nothing came of those visits yet, say residents. According to Gupta, within a span of 15 days few mobiles were snatched along with the chain snatching, in January 2018 attempts at kidnapping took place in the sector and the police stood clueless. "All this happened in the broad day light and left us at the peril of none," said Gupta who adds that as population in the area is above one lakh and is expected to increase substantially in coming months, there's an immediate necessity of a police station for the sector.
 
 A resident from Ajnara Daffodil society who does not wish to be named maintained people feel unsafe coming out of their homes. "Breaking car glasses, snatching chain/mobile in broad daylight is becoming routine here," he said.
 
 "We are left with no option but to protest," said Gupta.
 
 While Suniti, superintendent of police (rural) maintained that a set of guidelines required for setting up a new police station such as the number of people living in the area, total area, etc are being considered, sector 144 chowki in-charge in the meantime assured residents of increased patrolling in the area. "We will increase patrolling in the area and ensure removal of roadside encroachment along with more vigil in the sector," said O S Malik chowki in-charge sector 144.
 
 
