NAGPUR: From the time,   became the Union sports minister, sportspersons were hoping for change in their fortunes.

 Rathore, ever since, he took the charge was quite clear what he wanted to achieve. Apart from improving infrastructure, Rathore had launched   school games for the youngsters.
 
 It gave India its youngest gold medallists in   and  . They would be medal prospects in 2020 Tokyo Olympics too. Now, Rathore is eying even further.
 
 He has set his eyes on 2024 and 2028 Olympics. “After the success of Khelo India where 16-year-old players participated, we are going to start a new initiative. This year, we are going to find talent in the 8-10 year category. We will find talent at every nook and corner of the country to identify the best prospect. We will be targeting around 1 crore kids and out of those we will identify 20,000 talented ones. We will perform the DNA and IQ test of these kids to find talent for 2024 and 2028 Olympics,” Rathore said.
 
 In his inaugural speech while motivating the gathering of over 12,000 at the opening ceremony of Khasdar Krida Mahotsav, the Olympic silver medallist asked, “Are Nagpur players ready to sweat?” When the gathering shouted in ‘yes’, Rathore said, “You all need to promise that you will work hard while competing. As our Prime Minister has said we need to play in order to bring a change in the country. We gave a platform to play when we started Khelo India. You all need to promise today that you all create an environment where every school and its student participate in any sporting activity.”
 
 He added, “If any Nagpur player wants to shine at the national level in the years to come, then he/she should start it right now. When you perform and reach at the national level, entire country will witness and will cheer for you.”
 
 Elated with the atmosphere during the inaugural ceremony, Rathore said, “We have Khiladi No.1 and India’s No.1 leader (Nitin Gadkari) here. We have Dronacharya (Gopichand) of modern India here. The enthusiasm you people have shown is tremendous. Ekdam solid...Jhakaas...”
 
 Giving a sporting start to the 20-day, 20-game Khasdar Krida Mahotsav, Bollywood’s Khiladi No. 1 Akshay Kumar not only kicked footballs but insisted Union minister Nitin Gadkari, sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore and national badminton coach Pullela Gopichand to throw footballs to kick-start country’s biggest sporting extravaganza at the Divisional Sports Complex on a star-studded Sunday evening.
 
 The Rs 62,82,200 prize money event, promoted as Chak De, Khelo Nagpur Khelo, got off a to a glittering start with over 12,000 fitness freaks of the city converged during the inaugural function at the Mankapur Indoor Stadium to welcome Gadkari’s first move in competitive sports where over 25,000 participants are expected to compete in over 294 scheduled events from May 7.
 
 In his insipiring speech, Akshay Kumar said “For the parents who brought their kids here, I wish to thank them and want everyone to clap for the guardians and I wish to urge these parents to go and tell others to introduce more kids to sports and make them a Khiladi…”
 
 Convener of the Khasdar Krida Mahotsav organising committee, Sandip Joshi gave the introductary remarks and also proposed the vote of thanks.
 
 
