Type-2   refers to excessive blood sugar levels (hyperglycaemia). With an ever increasing prevalence, this medical disorder is taking a form of a global epidemic. Moreover, once affected, a diabetes patient falls prey to various other pathological conditions. For instance, diabetes patient is at a high risk of developing heart ailments, kidney problems and much more. The prime reason behind this is the persistent increase or fluctuation in the blood glucose levels. It is therefore important for a diabetes patient to control the blood sugar levels well within limit. 

 Healthy diet along with appropriate medications is important in such patients to maintain overall good health. Almonds have gained immense popularity in recent decades owing to their versatile health benefits. Several studies have indicated that regular consumption of almonds along with an appropriate diet can keep a check on blood sugar levels and can also have beneficial impact on heart in type 2 diabetes patients. 
 
 Almonds are very good source of healthy fats, high protein & high fibre, thus makes it an excellent food supplement for diabetes patients. They are rich in vitamin E, Omega-3 Fatty Acids, Magnesium, Potassium, Copper, Manganese, Iron & Calcium. Almonds broadly impact blood glucose levels when consumed. They help in decreasing the sudden spikes in blood glucose levels after meals. They are rich in manganese which helps in strengthening of bones & regulates blood glucose levels, reduce blood pressure, lower cholesterol levels, reduces hungers, promote weight loss & also help in muscles and nerve functions. It is good for skin & hair. Start your diet with 5-10 almonds soaked in water over night. Brown peel of almonds contain tannin which inhibits nutrient absorption.
 
 A study conducted in New Delhi, India, determined the impact of daily consumption of almonds for 24 weeks on risk factors associated with glycaemia and cardiovascular disease (heart-related ailments) in type-2 diabetes patients. 
 
 The study participants were maintained on a controlled diet and exercise plan for three weeks before the initiation of this study. All diabetes patients were given raw almonds (accounting for 20% of daily energy intake) to be consumed along with diet. They were also advised regular physical activity during the study period. Patients underwent a series of tests including anthropometry, blood pressure evaluation, measures of glycaemia (fasting blood glucose, glycosylated haemoglobin), lipids profile, assessment of marker of plaque formation in blood vessels (Pulse wave velocity), and marker of inflammation (high sensitivity C-reactive protein) at the initiation of the study and after the intervention period.
 
 There was a significant improvement in several parameters such as: waist circumference, waist-to-height ratio, total cholesterol, serum triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, glycosylated haemoglobin, and high sensitivity-C reactive protein after the intervention period. A trend towards improvement in pulse wave velocity was also evident.
 
 Consuming few almonds daily along with a well-balanced healthy diet has a beneficial impact on various risk factors associated with increased blood sugar levels and cardiovascular disease in type-2 diabetes patients. 
 
 
 
 
