HEMTABAD ( ): Chief minister   took her angst against the Narendra Modi government to a new high at a public meeting in North Dinajpur’s Hemtabad to pin down BJP, that has gained a toehold in the Raiganj civic polls in May 2017.

 Mocking at BJP’s “achchhe din” slogan on Thursday, the CM said: “The slogan has turned out to be taking away money from the common man. Banks are being looted with tacit indulgence from the Centre, pushing depositors into uncertainty. The Centre is revising dearness allowance and at the same time slashing interest rates on fixed deposits and provident fund. The common man has no security under this government.”
 
 Banerjee then turned to the Centre’s apathy over revival of ailing public sector units in Bengal. “There is a rumour that CPSUs — Burnpur and Durgapur Steel — are on the verge of closure. There is a winding-up plan for the ailing Burn Standard,” the CM said, pointing out that she had taken revival efforts for these ailing units during her stint as railway minister.
 
 Banerjee also lashed out at the Centre’s decision to discontinue funding for social sector projects like the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) and ASHA, that Bengal is continuing with its own funds. “The Centre is decimating the federal structure of governance. It has withdrawn fund support to these schemes. Let me tell you that 90% of ICDS funding comes from the state. We have increased the monthly wage of contractual workers engaged in these schemes. They can now continue to work till they attain the age of 60,” she said.
 
 The CM then warned the Hemtabad crowd against efforts to drive a wedge between Adivasis and minorities in the area by pitting one community against the other. Without naming BJP,   said: “There is a bid to create a division between Adivasis and minorities. Please don’t fall into this trap,” the CM said, pointing out how her government is continuing schemes for the uplift of both communities.
 
 With panchayat polls scheduled within months, Banerjee then dished out the state government’s schemes to carve out an alternative to the Centre.
 
 “As many 12,000 farmers killed themselves across the country with the maximum deaths reported from Maharashtra. The Centre didn’t pay heed to this tragedy. The Bengal government, on the other hand, has put in Rs 1,200 crore to aid farmers in distress after they made huge losses due to the untimely rain. I came to villages close to the Itahar border during that time. I would ask crop-losers to apply for compensation for the damage,” the CM said. 
 
 She also announced setting up of a 500-bed medical college in the district.
 
