BENGALURU: In what could be a game changer in treating HIV patients, the   (Naco) has decided that all patients registered for anti-retroviral therapy (ART) will undergo viral load testing. It will measure the quantity of HIV virus in patients and help doctors decide their treatment regime.

 Hitherto, the test was conducted only after the first line of drugs failed, which would happen after 5-7 years of patients being diagnosed with HIV, and result in them losing golden time in starting new medicines.
 
 On Saturday, Naco instructed all state governments to get patients to undergo routine viral load tests and check mortality rate. A staggering 80,173 people have died of HIV over the past decade in Karnataka, according to the death audit conducted by Karnataka State AIDS Prevention Society (KSAPS). 
 
 A total of 3.1 lakh people living with HIV (PLHIV) have registered for ART in the state. Across the country, an estimated 21 lakh HIV positive patients are registered with 525 ART centres. Bengaluru has seven such centres. 
 
 While 3,16,252 people living with HIV have registered for ART treatment in Karnataka as on December 2017, only 1, 65,917 of them actively turn up for follow-ups. The rest are either dead or don’t visit the centres.
 
 The practice till date was to get a patient, whose blood tests positive for HIV, to undergo a CD4 count before starting anti-retro viral drugs. CD4 count is a prognostic indicator where a higher number indicates a stronger immune system. Henceforth, the patient will have to undergo a viral load test too while registering for ART treatment.
 
 “The cost of viral load test in the private sector ranges from Rs 4,000-6,000 and not all can afford it. The government will be spending Rs 1,200 per test,” said an officer from KSAPS. 
 
 This Naco move will be implemented from February 8 through   under a public-private partnership ( ) project. In the first year, the agency will conduct 2.1 lakh tests. The remaining patients will be covered in a phased manner.
 
 “Currently, the programme was using targeted viral load testing to confirm suspected treatment failure owing to clinical or immunological failure of the patient. From now on, patients on ART will be monitored via viral load test at regular intervals. The result will allow early detection of potential treatment failure,” a senior officer in KSAPS said. 
 
 Naco had also set a timeline to be followed while conducting viral load testing. “For patients on the first line of treatment, the test should be done twice in the first year, once every six months. From the second year onwards, it should happen once a year. For second/third line patients, it must be conducted once every six months after the patient’s initiation on ART,” said KSAPS officers.
 
 However, NGOs closely working with people living with HIV (PHIV) in creating awareness have questioned the government’s partnership with a private entity. “There is a HIV law in place and the rules are likely to be framed by April 2018. Even before formulating the rules, why has the government tied up with a private party? Besides, if the private agency conducts tests only on 2.1 lakh of the total 21 lakh people registered for ART treatment in the country, it will cover only 10%. What about the rest? Instead, viral load tests should have been mandated for all HIV patients once every six months,” said David Bodapatti, who has been working with PLHIV.
 
 HIV positive people on active ART care
 
 Adult males: 69,376
 
 Adult females: 84,409
 
 Transgenders, Transsexuals: 373
 
 Male children: 6,443
 
 Female children: 5,316
 
 Total: 1,65,917
 
 Source: KSAPS (figures as on Dec 2017)
 
 
