HYDERABAD: Taking strong objection to adverse remarks made by Comptroller and Auditor General ( ) in latest audit report, chief minister   has directed electricity department officials to disclose details on power purchases.

 The CAG report said the Telangana power utilities purchased short-term power in excess of the limit set by the State Electricity Regulatory Commission ( ) and at rates higher than the maximum ceiling limits set by the commission resulting in extra cost of ?5,820.90 crore during 2012-17.
 
 In response, energy minister G Jagadish Reddy will release the details of power purchases and the reasons for the same. The Southern and Northern discoms have already prepared a detailed note wherein it will point out that shortfall of hydel generation to the tune of 14,000 million units between 2012-17 and zero generation from gas based power plants, which were stranded due to lack of gas supply from  , forced the state to go for power purchases.“The Commission had sanctioned nearly 14,000 million units from gas based, hydel and as share from AP power plants. But in reality, all of them failed to provide power to the state during the crucial time. We floated open tenders and made short term purchases to ensure power supply to all sectors,” a senior official, who has prepared the note to be made public in a day or two, told TOI.
 
 Transco officials said the CAG has not blamed the power utilities, but only observed that the purchases were made without the permission of the regulatory commission. “This is a technical issue. We usually submit the emergency purchases in the form of True-up in the revised submissions a year later,” explained a director of TS Transco.
 
 Following the CAG report, the CM has directed power department officials to disclose all details of power purchases done in the last four years to rule out misconception about the same. He also directed the chiefs of the two discoms and transco to give an explanation to CAG on its observations. The power department has decided to submit answers to CAG observations in writing with the aim of getting these paras removed from the report.
 
