KOLKATA: An “illegal” building construction project on   near   was wound up after its supervisor fell to his death in the elevator shaft on Tuesday.

 
 Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s ( ) building department officials on Wednesday expressed surprise over the construction of the six-storied building close to the police station — that too with an elevator. “This is something which seems to be a new trend in the Port area. Earlier, we would notice three or four-storied buildings coming up in the lanes. But this time the developer has dared to choose Watgunge Road, a major thoroughfare to build a six-storied building. On top of that, the developer made provisions for an elevator to attract customers,” an official said.
 
 On Wednesday, a team of building department officials took stock of the illegal construction and decided to maintain a strict vigil ward-wise to prevent such illegal constructions at an early stage.
 
 According to the department’s records, the civic body had warned the developer, a local promoter, and asked him to stop work a few months ago. However, the developer refused to comply. The department then lodged an FIR against the developer. The police arrested two persons in this regard. They were, however, released on bail later.
 
 A visit to the spot by a TOI team revealed that the developer had taken care to ensure that no part of the under-construction building can be seen from outside. The exterior of the structure had been draped around with sheets made of sacks and cement bags. This prevented anyone from seeing what was going on inside the building.
 
 Mohammed Kasim, a local resident, said the area was getting dotted with illegal buildings. Both the civic authorities and the police are doing nothing but sitting as silent spectators, he alleged. “Construction of illegal buildings here has become an industry in itself. Major roads, lanes and even bylanes have not been spared. We cannot raise our voices against such activities. Any protest will surely mean trouble for us as the developers are politically well-connected,” he said.
 
 
  
 
