AJMER: With an overall pass percentage of 91.85%, the   region of CsBSE has stood 3rd in the country in Class X results that were declared on Tuesday. Over 1.81 lakh students appeared in Class X from the Ajmer region, which includes Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Dadar & Nagar Haveli. Leading the country is Thiruvanathapuram with 99.60% followed by Chennai with 97.37%. Last year the result of Ajmer region (board + school) was 93.80 per cent but this time it dipped due as there was no school wise board in Class X of CBSE.
 
 
 Girls have proved their mettle once again as they have scored more than boys. In the results declared on Tuesday 94.62% girls cleared the exam, while the pass percentage for boys was at 90.35%. The trend has been continuing from past many years. Data corroborated from various sources says that two students — Dhruv Bohara and   of Udaipur stood first position in Rajasthan. Both are friends from past one year and have scored 495 marks out of 500. The second position in the state was bagged by Yana Gupta of Jaipur who scored 98.8%.
 
 The usual trend continues with high scorers expressing their interest in opting for the science stream while students who scored lower marks opted for humanities, except a few exceptions. TOI spoke to meritorious students from different schools whose first choice remains engineering and medical. While the trend of picking up the unusual career paths were also expressed by some students, Yana Gupta, who is Jaipur topper wants to make her career in cyber or environment field of law.
 
 Teachers say that scrapping of school wise exam has brought seriousness among students. “I have noticed a high degree of seriousness among students who appeared in Class X board while in the school-based exam this seriousness was missing completely,” said a school principal. A total of 1,80,871 students appeared in this exam and 1,66,143 passed while 13,321 got supplementary. The number of girls appeared in the exam were 71,170 whereas 1,09,834 boys took the exam. The high gender divide in number of aspirants continues.  , one of all India toppers in Class X CBSE who scored 499 is preparing for JEE in Kota from Allen Career Institute.
 
