Nagpur: The ground zero of the eastern Vidarbha’s Gadchiroli district, which is the hotbed of police-Maoist bullet exchanges, has now become a turf for hotly contested propaganda war as frontal outfits of the rival camps are now locking horns over the deaths of 40 red guerrillas in the forests along Maharashtra-Chhatishgarh border on consecutive days.  The security forces fired their first salvo by organizing a press conference of a so-called organization of Maoist victims in Nagpur immediately after the encounters in south Gadchiroli. The press conference, in which the families of the victims opted to lambast the Reds, was organized with the anticipation that the Maoist sympathizers are bound to make allegations against the security forces projecting their alleged atrocities.  After a week of the first press conference in city, it is the fact-finding team of the activists which has already addressed a press conference in Gadchiroli on Monday discarding the operations of the police forces as ‘fake encounter’ and ‘cold-blooded murder’ of the tribal. In Nagpur, a second press conference of the fact-finding team is expected soon.  The Maoist victims, though projecting itself as a neutrally organized platform of the hapless tribal families whose kin had been butchered by the Reds, had even went out of the way to confront the fact-finding team members in Gadchiroli when it had gone to probe into the two encounters in the forests of Boriya-Kasnasur and Nainer. There was no untoward incident taking place as two civilian groups clashing with each other at the moment of heat.  This was not the first time that the Maoist victims have tried to oppose the activities of the organizations which apparently seem to be opposing the moves of the security forces and investigating agencies. In Nagpur, the Maoist victims had started raising slogan and also threatening to disrupt the meetings of an organization which had been discussing the violation of rights of the political prisoners like GN Saibaba at MLA hostel. TOI had then observed presence of police personnel in plain clothes along with the Maoist victims marching with banners and posters. DIG Ankush Shinde of Naxal range said, with education and awareness, the victims have started knowing their rights too. “The tribal have gathered knowledge about the ground realities about the exploitations of the antigovernment forces. They themselves have organized their voice of dissent to come out for protest where police have no role to play,” he said. DIG said the Maoist victim organization is a civilian initiative.  Adding to the twist, another apparently pro-police organization ‘Bhoomkal’ immediately addressed a press conference after the fact-finding committee tabled it’s report before the media in Gadchiroli. Bhoomkal activists urged for action against fact-finding committee members for their anti-nation stance. 