Tuticorin: Normal life in Tuticorin was affected badly as more than 10,000 people including children and the elderly took part in a protest public meeting demanding the closure of Sterlite Industries. About 11,000 shops in Tuticorin and Srivaikuntam also downed their shutters due to the strike organised with the support of more than 50 associations and organisations.

 People started assembling at VVD Signal in the city from 2.30pm where the protest was organised after obtaining permission from the Madurai bench of the Madras high court. The crowd swelled to thousands by between 4 and 5pm and the stretch from VOC College to VVD signal was flooded with people. The meeting began as 5.30pm and went on till late in the evening.
 
 People from Kumarattiyapuram who started the protest against the company six weeks ago were on the stage that did not have any prominent political leader. Those who spoke at the event alleged that the factory let out harmful effluents and smoke that polluted ground water, soil and air. Among the speakers was a Class 4 student who said that the factory should be closed for the future of their generation.
 
 One of the coordinators of the protest M Krishnamoorthy recalled the struggles that were organised since the construction of the plant began. Calling the protest a grand success, he added that such strong protests will continue till the plant is closed. Due to the heavy crowd traffic to the city was diverted from the Madurai bypass.
 
 Earlier that day, the 24 hour strike began around 6am with close almost all the shops and commercial establishments except a few pharmacies remaining closed. 
 
 Autorickshaws, vans and minibuses too did not operate from 9am. Production was stopped in the salt pans too and all the 12 cinemas in the city also did not screen any show throughout the day. Busy areas such as the Old Bus Stand, New Bus Stand, WGC Road and VE Road in the city wore a deserted look.
 
 A few shops on the outskirts of the city opened late in the evening, but they were less than 10% of the total shops. More than 2,000 country boat fishermen too abstained from fishing.
 
 
