BAREILLY: Administrations in districts of Uttar Pradesh have begun preparing for the video conference of PM   with   (NCC) cadets of the state. NCC director-general Lt Gen BS Sahrawat and state government officials have asked the district magistrate to make arrangements for the conference, scheduled to take place on April 16. Officials concerned have been asked to make arrangements for at least 500 NCC cadets from each district.
 
  On January 19, Modi held a meeting with Lt Gen Sahrawat, in which the PM was briefed on various NCC-related issues. The PM asked the DG to conduct events, particularly social and nation-building activities.
  
  Following the meeting, a letter from the DG’s office, dated February 23, was sent to NCC officials across the state asking them to begin preparing for the video conference.
  
  “The PM has wished that cadets download BHIM and   apps and know the latest initiatives of the government,” read the letter, issued by Col Manish Sinha of the DG’s office. TOI has a copy of the letter.
  
  The districts have been asked to provide details of the venues where the cadets will gather, as well as a list of cadets who have downloaded the apps, with their address, mobile numbers and email IDs. Lieutenant colonel of 21 UP NCC battalion, Ishrat Ahmed, has sent a letter to district magistrate Virendra Kumar Singh informing him about the video conference.
  
  “Rehearsals for checking technical feasibility for the conference are scheduled from April 7 to 14. In view of that it is requested to give directions to officials concerned including NIC to provide technical support and venue for 500 cadets,” Lt Col Ahmed stated in her letter to the DM.
  
  Manoj Sharma, director at National Informatics Centre (NIC) Bareilly said that NCC officers had been informed that the district did not have a venue for 500 cadets. “The video conference room at the DM’s office can seat 20 people at the most,” he said.
  
  Meanwhile, Subedar Major VS Negi confirmed that they had talked to a private institute which has facility for video conferencing for 500 cadets. “The institute is on Shahjahanpur road, and has an auditorium which can seat 800,” he added.
