COLVA: Over a year ago, when Fatorda MLA Vijay   was sworn into the cabinet, he was a man on a mission. He rallied the people from Gogol, Curtorim and Raia and promised to clear the   garbage dump.

 
 He even roped in the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) to undertake bio-remediation of the waste dumped in the open which has grown into a range of hills.
 
 
  
 
 The corporation borrowed electrical sieves from the   garbage treatment plant and started its operation at Sonsoddo. It had its share of technical issues but pulled through for two months (April and May 2017) and stopped before the monsoon. Since then, the GSIDC has not returned and the 2018 monsoon has started knocking on the door.
 
 Twenty years and countless experiments later, successive governments since 1998 have failed to resolve the issue.  , who has consistently followed up with Sardesai, said, “The town and country planning (TCP) minister who had taken the initiative should work towards removal of the entire dump otherwise all his promises will be seen as fake.
 
 The TCP minster said that to find a lasting solution new technologies have come forward and the same are being examined by following due process of law. “Bureaucratic and administrative requirements are time consuming and public sometimes is unable to comprehend this,” he added.
 
 “There is nothing going on at the dump, garbage is not being processed, nothing is happening,” a resident said, on the condition of anonymity, adding that the TCP minister comes up with different ideas. First he promised bio-remediation, then he started speaking of lifting the garbage, after this process failed he installed two machines (sieves) then again the process of lifting garbage was initiated and now he is talking of plasma technology.
 
 Sardesai said, “The remediation of the garbage hill began in earnest and we had 20% reduction in the accumulated waste. However, another hill emerged at the same site on account of unsegregated waste being directly dumped.” 
 
 
