KOTA:  , a small municipality in   district, saw a mammoth crowd of people who assembled from across the Hadauti region to observe 70th death anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi on Tuesday. The enormous crowd in the small town was reflective of the anger that had been brewing in the region for past one year over alleged disrespect to Father of the Nation.

 Exactly a year ago on January 30, 2016, the Sangod municipality that is currently controlled by BJP had unceremoniously removed Mahatma Gandhi’s statue from the Sangod town circle. Congress leader and former minister Bharat Singh had launched a protest soon after demanding punishment for those involved in the statute’s removal.
 
 Singh, along with former chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former ministers Shanti Dhariwal, Ram Kishan Verma and Hari Mohan Sharma, NCW’s ex-chairperson Mamta Sharma and ex-MLA C L Premi, among others, turned up for the event organised by Sangod Block Congress to observe the death anniversary as well as mark the protest against the removal of Mahatma’s statue.
 
 Addressing the gathering, ex-CM Gehlot expressed concern over the prevailing ‘unusual atmosphere’ in the country. Bharat Singh said, “Those who tell too many lies become great political leaders in present times.” He urged people to teach a lesson to the BJP government for removing the statue. Dhariwal said RSS salutes its saffron flag and not the national flag at its shakhas (daily meetings).
 
 Gehlot, on this occasion, promised to gift autobiography of Mahatma Gandhi to those who write to him with the commitment to read the same. He said reading Gandhi’s books brings in a great change and reformation in one’s life.
 
 The ex-CM accused the ruling BJP of hijacking the ideals of Congress and disrespecting the national flag. “BJP is now embracing Sardar Patel who once banned the RSS, the BJP’s ideological mentor. Jan Sangh, the mother party of BJP once stated in 1977 that the tricolor should not be or national flag,” Gehlot said.
 
 Referring to the Gandhi family in Congress, Gehlot said that party leader Sonia Gandhi despite being a foreigner by birth proved herself to be an ideal example of Indian womanhood, reflecting the Indian culture and values. “Congress president Rahul Gandhi reflects Gandhism in his personality,” he added. Refuting BJP’s allegation of Congress being a dynastic party, Gehlot said “None of the Gandhi family members has taken a prime ministerial or even a ministerial portfolio in the government in past 28 years.”
 
 Referring to the allotment of seat in 6th row to Rahul Gandhi on Republic Day ceremony in New Delhi Gehlot said the public of the country does not know the persons or dignities seating in the first five rows but well knows Rahul Gandhi despite his being in 6th row.
 
 
