KANYAKUMARI: Various groups of people in Kanyakumari have come out against alleged vital omissions in the recently prepared draft Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) map for the district. The matter came to light following strong objection by people of the coastal areas of Tirunelveli district to the draft that was to be presented before them at Uvari last week. They have alleged that key information including of estuaries have been purposely kept off the map.

 Recently, representatives of the People’s Movement Against Enayam International Container Transhipment Terminal (PMAEICTT) and Coastal Peace and Development (CPD) had conveyed to district collector Prashant M Wadnere their objection to the draft map and the holding of a public hearing at Colachel on April 27. They also said that they would boycott the meeting and protest if the meeting was not cancelled.
 
 “Only Palayar at   and Thamirabarani at Thengapattanam have been marked on the map. Estuaries such as Valliyar at Manavalakurichi, Pantriyaru at Rajakkamangalam and   at Colachel that were on the map in 1996 have been omitted in the draft uploaded on February 19,” said PMAEICTT legal adviser S   Casmic Sundar. He told TOI that more than 100 creeks that flowed into the sea along the 68-km-long coastline of the district were also missing. “Water bodies such as tanks that are located within 150 to 200 metres from the sea, a major stretch of AVM Canal that runs along the coastline for several kilometres at Colachel and has been encroached at various places in Thoothoor, Vallavilai and Chinnathurai are also missing,” he said.
 
 According to him, dozens of fish landing centres in the more than 40 coastal fishing villages and hamlets, the bird sanctuary, salt marsh and mangroves in Manakudi, limestone reserves in Rajakkamangalam and Kanyakumari and over 48 lakh tonnes of rare earth minerals had not been shown in the draft.
 
 Among other major omissions pointed out by PMAEICTT were sand dunes in Enayam, Helen Nagar, Kurumpanai, Rajakkamangalam, Manavalakurichi and Manakudi. “In 2015, National Green Tribunal, Chennai, rejected plea by fishermen for a fishing harbour in Rajakkamangalam citing sand dunes and turtle nesting grounds on the stretch. But they are missing on the draft map. This is shocking,” Stanley said.
 
 Apart from Rajakkamangalam turtle nesting grounds, 17 other places in the district’s coast have also been omitted in the draft CZMP. “We strongly feel that these omissions have been deliberate to facilitate completion of Sagarmala. We are working out a parallel map with the factors that are missing on the draft map prepared by the government agencies,” he said.
 
 PMAEICTT and CPD urged the government to prepare the CZPM map after walking from Neerody to Arockiapuram (the ends of the district) to reflect the resources and richness of the coastline of the district on the map.
 
 
