NAGPUR: Nagpur   ( ) has put around 110 affiliated colleges on notice, warning them of freezing their admissions for the forthcoming session if they fail to invite local enquiry committee (LEC) for inspection before February 10.

 Based on the LEC report, the NU’s scrutiny committee would be forwarding its recommendation to the  , which will decide whether to grant ‘continuation of affiliation’ or not. In the last couple of years, admissions have been freezed at over 200 colleges, which either failed LEC scrutiny or didn’t invite it.
 
 Following irregularities like delays in appointment of officiating principal, the NU had prepared a schedule for colleges to complete formalities to seek continuation of affiliation.
 
 The ultimatum was served through a letter dated January 20. As per the schedule, January 15 was the last date for the LEC visits and subsequent submission of report to the NU. Though around 280 colleges were due for continuation of affiliation, only 180 have complied with the norm as on date.
 
 However, the NU letter does not carry the names or exact number of colleges which are yet to invite the LEC.
 
 Pro-VC  , who is in charge of college section, didn’t answer calls by TOI.
 
 Officials from the section confirmed that around 280 colleges were due for continuation of affiliation this year. Asked why the names were not mentioned in the letter, they said, “Right now, there was no need to make names public. The process for 180 colleges has started and it will be completed as per schedule.”
 
 The colleges have also been warned that no proposal would been entertained unless they get the LEC inspection done within the prescribed time limit.
 
 In its notification dated September 14, 2017, the NU had given the entire schedule. According to this, two months — from November 16 to January 15 — were reserved for LEC visits. The cut-off date is April 30, when final decision would be taken regarding continuation of affiliation.
 
 Last year, the NU had blacklisted 159 colleges and freezed admissions there. Most of these colleges had failed in the LEC inspection or had not invited it. Rest of the colleges were already shut. The action had brought down the total number of affiliated institutes to 444 from 603 at the beginning of the academic year 2016-17. In December 2016, 71 colleges were disaffiliated under Section 91 of the Universities Act 1994. Between 2016 and 2017, the NU stopped admissions to 230 colleges. Out of the 444 colleges, 300 had to seek continuation of affiliation this year.
 
 
