Excerpts:

 
 
 
 Successive droughts were greatly responsible for farm distress and that’s why we announced a loan waiver for farmers. The number of suicides dropped in 2017, after drought receded. Now, for the BJP to make an issue of this, they must answer the following: Why are farmer suicides highest in BJP-ruled Maharashtra despite receiving more central assistance? Why is BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh registering an alarming increase in farmer suicides? Why have farmer suicides gone up all over India during PM Narendra Modi’s regime? If Shah and   are so serious about farmers, why are they not waiving farm loans from nationalized banks? Instead of fishing for votes in a tragedy, BJP should put all solutions on the table to prove its concern for farmers.
 
 
 
 Modi’s aura is on the decline. People are realizing that he is not a man of his word. People have seen the management of the economy: GDP growth is below expectation, demonetization was a failure, ATMs are running dry, barely 1.5lakh jobs were created, black money was not brought back into India and fuel prices are at a historic high. I don’t know what he was doing when Nirav Modi and Vijay Mallya flew out of the country.
 
 
 
 People now suspect whatever the PM says or does or promises. His electoral potency has come down. We are ready to face him politically. I don’t think he can turn the BJP’s prospects in  . Modi held three rallies and Shah made several visits to the state, but collectively failed to gain traction. You cannot expect Modi to change his party’s campaign now.
 
 
 
 The BJP does not have leaders here, they have no local talent. BJP is relying on leaders from Delhi to run their campaign here. Our president   has come here, but allowed state leader   to be at the forefront.
 
 
 
 This constituency was included in Bengaluru only 10 years ago. With no prior infrastructure, funds started flowing in only after our government came to power. A lot of work on Cauvery water supply, sanitation, road infrastructure and lake improvement was taken up. I have no black spots on my political career.
 
