MANALI: The 16 members of five families that have been rendered homeless because of unscientific mountain cutting by contractors of   ( ) at   of   have threatened to commit suicide if they do not get compensation within a month.

 Their houses have been damaged after the land started sliding and the families have been forced to take shelter in temporary sheds for last six months. Family members of   Sharma, Omkar Sharma, Kamlesh Sharma, Suneel Sharma and   had spent harsh winters in these sheds. Wedding of daughter of Jai Narayan is in few days and he has no house to make preparations and arrangements for guests.
 
 “I am feeling helpless and thinking about committing suicide as I’ve lost my patience. The NHAI people have broken our houses and now they are not even giving us compensation. The highway authority has left us homeless and no one is taking its responsibility. The highway authority is provoking us to commit suicide,” Jai Narayan told TOI.
 
 In a letter, a copy of which was sent to TOI, Jai Narayan writes: “If we do anything wrong, the project director of NHAI will be responsible. They excavated 300m long and 15m high mountain face completely unscientifically and didn’t build breast wall for the next three months. They were waiting for our houses above the work site to collapse. Is this the working procedure of NHAI? If this is the working style of highway authority, then our high officials should pay special attention as this will bring more disaster than development.”
 
 He adds, “Everybody wants development of the country, but nobody would want that development comes on the cost of lives of its citizen and people would be rendered homeless.”
 
 Kullu sub-divisional magistrate Dr Amit Guleria says the administration did a spot visit and discovered that houses were damaged only after NHAI started soil cutting below the village. He added that the administration had calculated estimates of the damages and had also written to the NHAI for compensation.
 
 The NHAI is engaged in four-laning of highway in Kullu and is excavating soil to widen the road. The land cutting has resulted in big cracks developing in lower part of   village close to Kullu town. Some houses also developed big cracks and started collapsing. Five families had to vacate their houses on October 25, 2017. Despite support from the district administration, the families blame that the NHAI was not in mood to compensate for their losses. Jai Narayan said he though of knocking court doors, but had no time to wait for justice.
 
 
