She’s a petite woman of 25 with a Master’s degree in botany who loves flowers, animated movies and cartoons. Oh no, don’t let your thoughts flow in clichéd directions because   is anything but your girl next door. She’s Kolkata’s very own and India’s first-ever woman   at airports. 

 Fire in her belly
 A resident of Dum Dum, Taniya has always been known among family and friends as a brave leader with an innate love for challenges. “She has always faced things head-on. As kids, when we would make up stories and play, she’d always take charge. As a neighbour and childhood friend, I’ve always known her to take keen interest in every aspect of life — be it academics or extra-curricular activities. But when she broke the news of appearing for an exam to bag this job, I was taken aback! While she thrives on challenges, she has another side to her that appreciates art and culture,” shares Shrabani Mitra, Taniya’s childhood friend.
 It’s her brave side that had earned her the nickname, Birangona, when she was in school. “She was always a courageous and hardworking girl. She loved challenges. She loves to excel in every department, even extra-curricular activities. Her mother, Ruma, and I are extremely happy and thank   (AAI) for having such a provision that allows her to work as a firefighter,” said her father Kishore Kumar Sanyal, a retired CESC employee.
 As for Taniya, she can’t thank AAI enough. “It’s all because of AAI’s vision that I got this opportunity today. I really thank its chairman,  , for appointing me. While the new and different always excited me, chasing my dreams has been possible because of the support I received from my parents, sister, brother-in-law and friends. Each one of them had a role to play,” said Taniya, who is training at the   now. 
 According to her family, it took her months to prepare for the endurance test that comprises medical, physical, written and driving tests. It was held in Bhubaneswar after her initial selection on Panchami, last Durga Puja. “I’ve never kept my thoughts boxed up. To me, anything is possible. Last year, while searching for a job, I came across the AAI advertisement. This time, it was open to all. I thought this must be a first for a woman and I applied,” said Taniya, who will be posted in one of the eastern region airports after her four-month training.
 
 Sure fire success
 There’s no shortcut to success and who knows it better than Taniya and her family. The incredible feat she has achieved was possible only after a lot of hard work. “When she decided to explore the opportunity, she called me first and I encouraged her to take up the challenge. Running and strength training were important parts of the tests in Bhubaneswar. Together, we would go to Talapark near Dum Dum and she would train there. She would run 100 metres in 20 seconds and I’d time her. That she has made a mark in a profession known to be a man’s domain till now is a great thing in itself. Now, at 
 the fire centre, she trains from 5 am to 5 pm and it’s a tough schedule, but she always wanted to do something that would help people and be challenging enough,” said Tanima Banerjee, Taniya’s elder sister.
 When asked how she would inspire India’s women, who now look up to her, she said her focus right now is on training hard. “There are 55 people in my batch and I’m the only woman. I’m enjoying the learning process and preparing to give my 100% to serve people in case of airport emergencies. My department and I’ll try our best to inspire women across the country to join this profession. And I’d like to tell them that women symbolise power and there’s nothing we can’t do. The only necessary bit is that we need to dream about what we want to do and then focus on achieving our dreams,” she added.
 
 Leading by example
 Taniya has always had women as her role models. “The women in my family have always inspired me. My maternal grandmother, mother’s aunt, who I referred to as Ranga dida, was my inspiration. She’s no more, but her words have left a deep impact. She used to work for the forest department. My mother, who is a homemaker, and my sister are my two pillars of strength. In my early teens, I looked up to Kiran Bedi ma’am, known for her exceptional work for society,” Taniya told us.
 And there’s a tiny tot in the family who wants to grow up to be like Taniya — her sister’s six-year-old daughter. According to Tanima, her daughter even took Taniya’s photographs to school to show it to her friends.
 
 Beyond the call of duty 
 In a job unusual for a woman and responsibilities and appreciation galore, Taniya doesn’t shy away from being her age. She may be undergoing tough physical training for being a firefighter, but she doesn’t dream that a superman will sweep her off her feet one day. A caller tune that plays Something just like this by The Chainsmokers and Coldplay is proof enough. An animal lover, Taniya craves for a movie night with close friends, capturing beautiful flowers in full bloom and has never missed a cultural programme, whether in school, college, university or her neighbourhood. She’s trained in Bharatanatyam too.
 
 
 
