KOCHI: The Jewish community, which had trade links with the ancient port of Muziris from the time of King Solomon according to Hebrew scriptures, now has just 21 members and seven worship places in the state. 

 The indelible footprints they left in the history of Kochi is being celebrated under 'Travel with the Writer', an initiative, which takes people around historically significant places of Jewish history with Bonny Thomas, the author of Kochikkar (Kochiites), a book which chronicles Kochi's heritage.
 
 Threading together pieces of Jewish history through people, edifices, cemeteries, and streets that lead to them all, the cultural tourism project by Greenix Village starts off from  , where a synagogue stands high within close ranges of a church and the remains of a seminary, a mosque and a temple. 
 
 "The synagogue is home to the oldest Hebrew carvings found in India, which is written on the tombstone of a Jewish woman called Sara, dated AD 1269," Dibhash, a caretaker of the synagogue said.
 
 Each synagogue in the city has not only a cemetery close by but a market as well, signifying the importance they gave to trading as well as their beliefs. 
 
 The Port of Muziris, which is said to have received Jews since around 600 BC, is the most important town that is being excavated in parts lately.
 
 "The Jews, who escaped from slavery from Middle East to various parts of the world, are believed to be the ones who first settled in Muziris," Thomas said.
 
 As generations passed, figures like Joseph Rabban who rose into prominence during the rule of Chera kings, helped the community group together. 
 
 "The question of purity of race and blood was something that plagued the community internally, which resulted in multiple internal fights and conflicts, and subsequent dispersal of the community. AB Salem, who fought for the rights of the Black Jews had even pioneered a movement against the oppression of the community by those claimed to be White Jews. But such movements were crushed," said Thomas.
 
 After the fall of the   due to a natural calamity in 1341, the Jewish diaspora further dispersed across the state forming two major groups in Kochi - Kadavumbhagam and Thekkumbhagam, named according to their families' positioning near the river.
 
 "Joseph Rabban's two sons who migrated from Muziris to Ernakulam formed two different groups. While the elder son developed Ernakulam into a market city, the younger son sought the help of Tripunithura king, who later gifted Mattancherry (which got its name from Mattana Cheri, which means 'gifted land' in Hebrew) to him," said Elias Josephai who takes care of the   at Broadway.
 
 "The Broadway Market, which was built upon marsh lands by the Jews, is still heavily influenced by the Jewish culture, with many of the old wholesale traders still quoting numbers in Hebrew and some of the Jews residing near the synagogues in the street recalling Aramaic songs passed over generations," Thomas said.
 
 The walk thus peppered with history and anecdotes will soon be open to public for participation.
 
 
