A call from Majid Majidi’s Indian unit was ‘surreal’, she says. Uncertain about what it meant, she still gave it a shot and in no time, was playing Tara, a girl working in Mumbai’s Dhobi Ghat. But it was far from easy for  , daughter of cinematographer KU Mohanan, for she is as different from Tara as chalk from cheese. On her Kolkata trip, she opens up on the many challenges and triumphing over them. Excerpts:
 
Quite surreal! I was familiar with his works; aisa nahin hai ki I didn’t know who he was. Also, I come from a background where I’ve grown up watching a lot of good cinema. Thanks to my father (cinematographer KU Mohanan), I watched loads of films — Malayalam, Hindi — and all kinds of the latter, like mainstream and parallel cinema. As a teenager, I have seen Mani Kaul’s films, and then, there were a lot of English, Iranian and Mandarin films. Because of a family like that, I was aware of who   was. But it was a crazy feeling when I got a call for this film. Honestly, I didn’t have a lot of hope when I went there. It was such a big project and you tend to underestimate yourself. I was like, ‘What if they don’t?’ As the talks progressed, the chances went up, and at point, I realised it might happen. And then, it 
 did happen and frankly, I was overjoyed.
 
 
 
 My character in the film, Tara, is from Dhobi Ghat and she works there. We shot in real locations, which was beautiful. As an actor, the moment you are dressed as the character and are in a real location, half your job is done. You automatically start feeling the character more. It’s more about emoting. Also, I love this guerrilla style of shooting, where there are no junior artistes and you are asked to walk through the sea of crowd or do something. So, it was great shooting there. Because I started out shooting in Dhobi Ghat, it helped me get into the character better. The set portions were shot in the second half of my schedule.
 About connecting with the character, it was tough. I was on board at the last minute. I signed up for the role some 10-15 days before the shoot. As an actor, when you mentally spend time with the character, it starts growing in your head. So, if you sign up for the part some 2-3 months before the shoot, you have enough time to prep up, both consciously and subconsciously. But here, I did not have the time and I had to literally dive into the character. This is where shooting in real locations helped as I got the feel of the character. The challenging part was that I was playing a character far removed from me! The challenge was to get it right — look, talk, act like Tara. I come from a protective environment and was brought up under the shadow of my parents. I never had to run a family and there was no pressure of earning money; there’s still no pressure. I do the kind of things I like to do because there’s no pressure; it’s such a luxury as not everyone can afford to do that. People have to make money to survive, take care of their families… the life I lead is quite a privilege. Here, Tara lost her parents at an early age, she has to take care of her brother, she works, she has to make money… it’s a completely different graph. But then acting is make-believe, you don’t have to live a character to portray it.
 
 
 
 Both of us helped each other. A film is always a collaborative effort. If at all there’s a hero in this film, it’s Majid Majidi. It’s his baby, his script, he directed it and he made us act. We didn’t have workshops, so my interaction with Ishaan started happening when we began shooting. So, as we were getting to know each other as Amir and Tara, we were actually getting to know each other as Ishaan and Malavika. They are siblings. You tend to know your sibling so well, there’s a natural rapport they share and here, we were just getting to know each other. So, he put in a lot of effort to getting to know me. He is very giving as an actor. Even in scenes where he didn’t need to perform and the camera was on me, he emoted and that really helped as cinema is a collaborative effort. This is not what a lot of actors do.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Mine is the fan favourite — Children of Heaven. I love it. It’s such a beautiful film. I like Baran and all his other films. But this invokes a different kind of a feeling every time I see it. I am not someone who cries on seeing a romantic film. But every time I watch the film, it tears me apart. And there are both tears of joy and sadness; you feel for the children, you are with them…
 
 
 
 More than difficult, it was confusing. We had an amazing interlocutor, who would translate everything super-clearly. We were given specific instructions and nothing was lost in translation. But it was the first time that I was going through such a process. I was directed by someone, who didn’t know the language. As days passed by, things started getting better. We started following each other’s body language. He was getting familiar with me as an actor, I was getting to know him as a person. When language is taken out, you realise there are so many different ways in which human beings communicate with each other. After every shot, I would look at him and the way he would breathe or let out a sigh, I would understand what he meant.
 
 
 
 Kolkata is a place where I love coming back. I am greatly influenced by the works of   and  . When you watch a lot of cult films now, you are like, ‘It was path-breaking then. Ab iss mein kya hai?’ But Ray’s Pather Panchali, even if you watch it 20 years later, you know how relevant it is. The movie is very real. I also like his The Apu Trilogy, Charulata and other films. His films are so realistic and so poetic. It’s the same with Majidi’s films. I am not much clued into contemporary films, but I watched and liked some of Aniruddha RoyChowdhury’s works. Antaheen, for example, is a beautiful film and it has a lovely song, Amar bhindeshi tara. I have also seen Aparajita Tumi, where Ranjanda worked as a cinematographer. I am very close to Ranjanda, he is a brave artiste, who surprises everyone with what he does.
 
 
 
 
