PUNE:   police arrested three men, who had beaten up a 22-year-old car driver in an incident of   at the Mundhwa signal junction late on Sunday night. During the late-night scuffle, Kishor Sunil Pethe, a driver from Ghatkopar (West) in Mumbai, fell on the pennant flag rod on the car’s bonnet and got severely injured in the stomach.

 Pethe had lodged a complaint with the Mundhwa police claiming that three men, who were triple-riding a scooter, had assaulted him with sharp weapons.
 
 “Our investigations have revealed that Pethe was not assaulted with weapons. Instead, he fell on the pennant flag rod, which was quite sharp. The rod caused the injury,” said senior police inspector Anil Patrudkar.
 
 On Wednesday, the police arrested the three men, identified as 22-year-old Shubham Mahadev Bharati, of  , and two 23-year-old residents of Mundhwa —   and Shubham Heramb Saswade.
 
 As the complainant did not know his attackers and could not furnish their names, the police had to conduct a thorough search of the incident-spot to identify and arrest the suspects. 
 
 Sub-inspector Amol Gawali and constable Dattatray Vibhute searched the area at night. They found out that the suspects ran a food handcart in the area and were looking for a new spot for the business.
 
 Patrudkar said this was a case of road rage.
 
 “The victim and his friends and the attackers did not know each other. They started arguing after an ‘overtaking’ incident on the road. The argument soon escalated to a brawl between them,” he said.
 
 According to the complaint, Pethe and his friends had visited Pune for some personal work in their car. They were on their way back to Mumbai when the incident happened.
 
 “They reached the spot at around 11.45 pm and overtook a scooter. The three arrested men were triple-riding this scooter. While overtaking, Pethe’s car came very close to the two-wheeler, and the three men screamed at the driver. The car driver halted the car and blocked the way of the scooter riders to confront them. An argument ensued and soon the men started fighting,” Patrudkar said.
 
 One of the suspects pushed Pethe forcefully and he fell on the bonnet of the car and got injured by the flag bar. “Pethe fell on the pennant rod, which pierced his stomach,” the police said. The three suspects immediately fled the scene.
 
 
