MATHURA: The future has become dismal for  , 17, and his sister  , 14. Till March last year, they were just like other teenagers from middle class families, dreaming big and making lofty plans about their lives and careers. Ten months later, all their dreams have been shattered, and all they can think of now is how each day will pass for them.

 On the intervening night of March 8 and 9, 2017, their parents, Banwari Lal and   were bludgeoned to death at their house in   here by dacoits. The murder sparked public outrage, forcing politicians to queue up at their home and promise the children justice and help. Police and administration had claimed that they would catch the guilty in a fortnight.
 
 For Rahul and Deepa, the death of their parents was an unthinkable tragedy, but they had some consolation that their ‘didi’, Rakhi (20), was still by their side to take care and console them. However, on October 8 Rakhi was driven to suicide by the alleged lackadaisical attitude of the police.
 
  
 Rakhi had been relentlessly pursuing the case but the general apathy of the police and the administration frustrated her, forcing her to end her life by consuming pesticide. Her death was a shattering blow to Rahul and Deepa. “We don’t understand why we are still alive. Our parents and sister are gone,” Rahul told TOI.
 
 The surviving siblings live a reclusive life with their 90-year-old grandmother,  , who has witnessed the death of all her three sons. “I’m perhaps alive only for these kids,” she said.
 
 Rahul said the siblings’ schools had waived off their fees on humanitarian grounds and some kind neighbours had been helping them to make their ends meet. He said the state government had given them a compensation of Rs 5 lakh but that would not last for ever.
 
 “Although our sister killed herself, our parents’ murderers are still not caught. They are responsible for my sister’s death too,” said Rahul, who is studying in class XII at  . He is now preparing to look for a job and has given up his dream of college and higher studies. Banwari Lal used to own a truck and drive it himself. Now, however, the family is in poor financial condition. 
 
 While the family has lost hope of getting justice, Mathura senior superintendent of police ( )   told TOI that investigations are still going on into the parents’ murder. “A few names of suspects had cropped up and their polygraph tests are being conducted to get to the bottom of the case,” he added.
 
