JAIPUR: Amid celebrations on  , over 110 persons landed in different hospitals due to injuries they suffered from falls from   or cuts on faces by   on Sunday.

 There were 61 persons who were rushed to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital with injuries. “We have admitted four persons as they suffered serious injuries,” said Dr SS Yadav, spokesperson,  .
 
 Craze for   was at its peak on Makar Sankranti as the sky was dotted with kites. Music, til ka ladoos, gajak, pakoras and kites in the day and in the evening Jaipurites enjoyed bursting firecrackers and released lanterns in the sky.
 
 But it was a difficult day for those who were hospitalised after suffering from kite flying related injuries. Abid Ali, whose son fell from rooftop of his house, was praying for his son to get well soon. Twelve-year-old Rehan Ali from Bhatta Basti of Shastri Nagar area fell from the rooftop while chasing kites. He has suffered critical injuries on his head. His father Ali, who works at a property dealer’s office, rushed him to Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital’s institute of traumatology and orthopaedics (ITO). “I always tell my children to be careful while flying kites. The incident happened when I stepped out of the house to check on my mother’s health, who is living in Karbala. I received a call from home and rushed my son to the hospital,” Ali told TOI.
 
 Rehan is undergoing treatment in emergency ward and doctors pointed out that he has some blood clots in the brain, which they are treating with medicine.
 
 One Arjun Lal Sharma from Lalpura of Bassi tehsil in Jaipur district was inconsolable as his niece had fallen from rooftop while chasing kites. He was sitting alongside the bed of nineyear-old Nisha, who suffered head injuries. She too has been admitted to ITO of SMS Hospital. “His brother was flying kites and she was just watching him. But, accidentally, she slipped fell from the rooftop,” Sharma said.
 
 More than 50 persons reached SMS Hospital with minor cuts on throat, nose, cheeks and face. It was a difficult day for bikers as they suffered injuries as snapped kites’ sharp manjha caused injuries on their faces. “They were provided with treatment and they were allowed to go as they did not suffer major injuries,” a hospital administration official said.
 
