KOCHI: Motorists, who often end up in the queues at Kumbalam toll plaza, are looking forward to the launch of   mobile application on Wednesday. Though motorists have been constantly complaining about vehicles piling up in the queues, nothing much has been done to address the issue.

 
 However, with the launch of the new mobile app, the   ( ) expects that it would empower the highway users as they could register their complaints directly with the authority.
 
 
 The key feature of the app includes provision for the highway user to submit issues related to quality of highways. “Public can report on any accident or pothole on the highway. It also provides users with real-time data related to waiting time expected at toll plazas and various facilities like points of interest, along the highway,” said a NHAI official.
 
 Local people said that vehicles keep honking at the toll plaza expecting the staff to clear the way without delay. “Often it is chaos. Motorists can be seen arguing and shouting with the staff manning at plaza over the delay in toll collection. Sometimes, even emergency vehicles including ambulance and fire engines find it difficult to navigate through the toll plaza inviting public wrath,” said Manjush V, a local resident.
 
 The NHAI said a toll-free number, 1033, will enable users to report an emergency condition, or highway-related feedback, across the highway.
 
 They have also integrated services of ambulance and tow away vehicles. The mobile app supports multiple languages and also use location tracking features to provide the user with accurate and responsive complaint resolution.
 
 Meanwhile, motorists and other road users are apprehensive about the effectiveness of the mobile app. According to them they are unsure how the highway authority would intervene to clear the long queues at toll plazas.
 
 “There should be immediate and time bound intervention. The complaints submitted in the app should reach the police who could chalk out solutions. We don’t know how fast and quick such responses would be,” said Sammer Abdulla, an activist of the NH joint council.
 
 Union minister for road transport & highways,   will launch the mobile app and toll-free emergency number for highway users at New Delhi.
 
