NEW DELHI:   has advised India captain   to continue his faith in the current batting line-up and avoid tinkering with the team combination. Following their defeat in the first Test in Cape Town, the team management's decision to stick with   while benching Ajinkya Rahane, who has a superior overseas record, has come under heavy criticism. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Rohit scored 21 runs across the two innings in Cape Town Test as India succumbed to a 72-run defeat in the space of four days. The openers too have come under fire, especially   who was out in the same manner in both the innings and there are calls for him to be replaced by KL Rahul.
 
 Writing in his column for TOI, Ganguly suggested that Indian team should not make any changes for the second Test which starts from Saturday in Centurion.
 
 "Virat Kohli should not worry about such things [team combination]," Ganguly said. "Although KL Rahul and Ajinkya Rahane have a good history of scoring runs away from the sub-continent and have better records as batsmen, India can't just chop-and-change in every game. They have shown faith in the current batting and that should continue in the next Test as well. They still have two more Tests to play and I feel all the matches will produce results." 
 
 The former captain has also backed the five-bowler strategy saying the reason India came close to securing a win in Newlands was because of their ability to take 20 wickets which will continue to be the case in the upcoming matches.
 
 "There has been a lot of talk about the combination. India did the right thing by going in with five bowlers. As much as scoring runs is important in a bid to win Test matches, getting wickets is also key. The reason why we were thinking of an Indian win at some point is because the bowlers got 20 wickets and that will continue to be an important criteria over the next two Tests," he observed.
 
 That India were able to roar back into contention was thanks to a heroic 95-ball 93 from allrounder   on Day 2. India were reeling at 92/7 before the youngster bailed them out with a counterattacking knock and this limited South Africa's first innings lead to 77 runs. He also removed both the South Africa openers after they made a solid start with 52 runs.
 
 Ganguly is impressed with the 24-year-old's performance but feels that India's batting performance as a unit needs much improvement.
 
 "Hardik Pandya came good with the bat and India should persist with him. The problem lies with the overall batting performance, and this has to be fixed soon. There will be lot of talk about players who were not in the playing eleven. That's always the case when you lose," he said.
 
 He also praised the close contest the first Test produced saying it was an equal battle between the bat and ball. "The first match between South Africa and India was a great exhibition of Test cricket where the ball dominated the bat. The great part about the surface was that even on the fourth day the bowlers were in the game. I have played on the Newland pitch and at some stage of the game the conditions always got better for batting. This, however, was not the case in the first Test," he said.
 
 However, he did say that the pitch wasn't easy to bat on, especially for the Indian batsmen who are yet to acclimatise with the conditions. "I have played on similar sorts of pitches in the past, at Headingley or the Wanderers, and though India finished on the winning side then, the bowlers were always in the game. To be honest, this was a tough pitch for Indian batsmen as it was the first Test of the series and the boys were still getting used to the conditions," he reckoned.
 
