MUMBAI: In its push to scale potentially large categories,   is now doublingdown on the furniture segment. After revamping the vertical last year, the Indian e-tailer is expected to clock Rs 750 crore in gross merchandise value, or GMV, by the end of the year in this segment. Flipkart, which announced a 77% stake sale to   recently, says it will overtake the largest vertical player in the online furniture market in 2018, with increased focus on its private labels and an improved supply chain. 

 Mumbai-based furniture e-tailer   is currently the largest vertical furniture e-tailer. Other categories like grocery are also being built by Flipkart to reduce its dependence on only GMV-driving segments like mobiles and electronics. 
 
 Talking to TOI,   category head Nandita Sinha said the company expects its furniture sales to grow four times compared to the past year on the back of heavy investments in supply chain and back-end. tnn 
 
 "We are on track to be the largest furniture player in the country and become bigger than any other vertical player in the next quarter. We have set up our own delivery, fulfilment and installation network enabled by tech, launched a durability certified furniture range and introduced our private brand Perfect Homes, which have helped us grow in the category," Sinha said. 
 
 Pepperfry founder and CEO  , however, disputed Flipkart's claim without giving any specific GMV numbers. "We aim to clock a GMV of Rs 5,000 crore by 2020, beyond Rs 1,000 crore last year," Murty added. 
 
 While Flipkart has been selling furniture for a few years now through its marketplace, it revamped the category with a focus to control fulfilment. It relaunched its furniture business after addressing issues like longer delivery periods, post-sales installation and other pain points faced by consumers. 
 
 The relaunch was done before its annual festive season sale Big Billion Days with the introduction of its private label brand - Perfect Home.
 
  The home category contributes about 15% of the company's revenue andthe plan is to grow this significantly. Flipkart's overall GMV is estimated at $7.5 billion. 
 
 
