Actor  , who was recently awarded a Special Mention at the 65th National Awards for his portrayal of a cynical CRPF officer in ' ', was in Lucknow recently to shoot for  's 'Abhi Toh Party Shuru Hui Hai'. The actor, along with fellow National Award winner  , celebrated his win with a party with the cast and crew of the film. "It's been non-stop celebrations ever since the announcement was made.   broke the news to us as we were having lunch in Anubhav Sinha's room. I couldn't believe myself and was in tears when the news sank in," said the actor, whose reaction photo was posted on a social network by Sinha, after hearing the news of him winning the National Award.
While in the city, we caught up with 'Gangs of Wasseypur' actor in between his shooting schedule, who spoke to LT at length about his connect with the city and what this new found success means to him.
 Having been to Lucknow several times before to shoot for films, including ' ' and stage plays here, Pankaj said he loved the warmth of the people of the city. "Bahut pyaar hai yahan par. Sab log itne apnepan se milte hain ki lagta hai ki yeh toh apna ghar hai. I used to come to   (BNA) and when I was not selected in   (NSD) in the first attempt, I had plans of taking admission in  , but finally, I got selected in NSD," said Pankaj.
 
  
  Pankaj Tripathi at   in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 Recounting a recent incident while in Lucknow Pankaj told us, "Recently, while I was shooting here, during a day's break, I had to go to Lalitpur for some personal work. Since the option of taking a flight wasn't there, so I went to Charbagh Railway station and took a train. Raat ki train thi aur main chup-chaap baith gaya but phir bheed lag gayi and people started asking 'aap toh actor hai na?' But I kept on denying ki nahi bhai main koi actor nahi hoon. Then a few them said ki bilkul hubahu lag rahe ho. Kuch bacche thay woh sure ho hi gaye ki main actor hoon and they took a picture with me. Hamare gaon ke kuch log hain jo Charbagh par phal-sabzi bechte hain, main unse milna chahta tha par mil nahi paaya."
 For the versatile actor, UP has been lucky. "I have always felt that UP mere liye bahut lucky hai. My two films 'Bareilly Ki Barfi' and 'Nil Battey Sannata' - shot here also went on to become commercially successful and I got the news of the National Award while shooting or the third one here. Woh jo tagline hai na ki 'Muskuraiye ki aap Lucknow mein hain',wo charitaarth ho gaya hai mere liye. Muskuraana kya, mere liye hasne waali baat ho gayi thi. And, later Anubhav Sinha threw a party for me and Divya Dutta and we all enjoyed so much that day," said Pankaj.
 
  
  Pankaj Tripathi at Baati Chokha in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 An alumnus of NSD who started out with theatre, Pankaj says he doesn't have time for theatre these days due to his film commitments. "I haven't done theatre for past several years. Last month I met Nasser saab (Nasseruddin Shah) and unhono kaafi daanta bhi mujhe ki tu abhi theatre nahi kar payega toh kabhi nahi kar payega. I am trying to do theatre, in fact, there are few people in Lucknow who are asking me to prepare a play and they will arrange for the show to be staged here. But I will definitely be doing theatre in 2019 because uska maza alag hai and for actor like me, who are originally from theatre, uss medium se doori banana theek nahi hai. Till now, it was the struggle for survival. Last year, I did nine films and I could hardly sleep. But now, after the coming November, I will slow down a bit and will focus more on theatre, that’s the agenda," said Pankaj. 
 Having won the National Award, Pankaj says he is happy that his work has been appreciated, but he knows that this high phase is temporary. "Five years ago nobody knew me and maybe five years later also no one may know me. Aapko raat mein samay se neend aa jaaye, your family remains happy that is the parameter of success for me. Rest paisa, naam hona, nahi hona, sab mithya hai, bhram hai. For me, my career has always been secondary, my priority has been my personal life, my family and today also it’s the same. Aaj success hai kal nahi rahega, but my family was there before also and will remain after that also. So I don’t run after temporary things but focus more on permanent things in life," he reasoned.
 
  
  Pankaj Tripathi at Baati Chokha in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 Talking of him getting recognition late in his career, Pankaj said, "Many people have been asking this question because I have been consistently performing better for many years. But I think, jo bhi hota hai sahi samay pe hota hai. Because I have got this award a little late, so I would value it even more. It will hold importance in my life because I have achieved this after so much struggle and hard work. So, jis ladki se mohabbat karne mein kathinai hoti hai uss se bada tagda prem hota hai. Toh wahi hai, der se mila toh ab main iski qadar zyada karunga. And because the whole nation has recognised my work, so there can be no bigger award than that," said he. 
 
