Margao: FC Goa playing   FC in the   at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Thursday presents a study in contrast.
 
  Or so it may seem.
  
  The hosts having scored 20 times in eight matches -- the highest tally in the 10-team league -- have leaked in 15.
  
  Jamshedpur have conceded just four – the least, so far -- but have only found the net as many times.
  
  The coaches though –   of FC Goa and his opposite number Steve Coppell – are not fixated on statistical extremities.
  
  The Spaniard at the helm of FC Goa knows too well that his team could well have been sitting pretty in a position far better than fifth. For all their goal-scoring prowess in the current season, he reflected on goals his team should have scored.
  
  “Small details made all the difference,” Lobera said. “In our game against Pune (lost 0-2) we failed to take the lead. Then, again ATK (drawn 1-1), we were denied a penalty. And in our last match (a 1-2 loss to NorthEast United) we wasted chances,” Lobera rationalized when reflecting on a mere point won from the last three matches.
  
  On his part Coppel, the Englishman guiding Jamshedpur who are two places lower, took pains to affirm that his side with an imposing defensive record of five clean sheets should not be identified by a defensive stereotype.
  
  “We’re not in here to get a nil-all draw or squeak through a game 1-0. We would like to be part of more expansive football going forward,” said the former Kerala Blasters coach.
  
  In virtually the same breath, Coppel expressed how much fun it was watching FC Goa tear opposing defences apart. “Much as it would please a coach to retain a clean sheet, it was fabulous to see Goa win 5-2 and 4-3,” he said.
  
  “They are a fluid attacking unit but my job is to make sure we stifle, then hit them as well.”
  
  However, Coppell knows his ‘Men of Steel’ have a task on hand as he viewed FC Goa’s potent attack led by Spaniards -- nine-goal Ferran Corominas and five-goal Manuel Lanzarote. “Lanzarote loads, Coro shoots,” the Englishman said in a nut-shell.
  
  FC Goa go into the match, shaking off the hangover of defeat to NorthEast United in Guwahati. Jamshedpur, a trifle buoyant, after salvaging a point against Mumbai City FC in a 2-2 draw at home.
  
  Midfielder Edu Bedia returns after being rested in Guwahati. The Spaniard will add a touch of ebullience shown in the match against ATK in Kolkata where he was adjudged Man-of-the-Match in a heroic draw in adverse circumstances.
  
  Jamshedpur will sorely miss forward Mehtab Hossain who serves out suspension but Izu Azuka, the Nigerian who has scored three goals, could provide the spark up front.
  
  In the cauldron of 19,000 partisan fans, one Jamshedpur player may just about feel at home – Trindade Goncalves who donned FC Goa colours last season will hope to be at his combative best to soak up pressure.
  
  As for FC Goa? Lobera sees no pressure. Just excitement. “We come from a difficult season last year when we finished last. We have recovered the confidence and faith of our supporters with our style,” he said as he viewed five home games from seven remaining after Thursday’s match.
  
  “This stretch will define whether we belong to the top four or need improvement,” the Spaniard said.
  
  “If we make the top four, it will stem from excitement. Not pressure.”
  
  ////
