Amritsar: A sudden spurt in number of Kashmiri youths travelling to Pakistan through the Attari border has made security agencies suspicious, who believe that many of these youngsters travel across the border to undergo arms training on the pretext of meeting their relatives.

 “Earlier we were not suspicious of large number of Kashmir youths going to Pakistan via Attari. However, on receiving intelligence inputs, we started profiling them, and to our utter surprise many of them who returned from Pakistan had bruises on their hands that we believe are due to rigorous arms training,” said a senior intelligence official on the condition of anonymity.
 
 In February, the Jammu and Kashmir police had arrested two Kashmiri youths, Mohammad Ashraf Mir and Abdul Majeed Bhatt, both militants of Lashkar-e-Taiba, immediately upon reaching Jammu and Kashmir after returning from Pakistan.
 
 J&K police in a press release had informed that both had gone to Pakistan via Attari border on a valid visa and had undergone arms training in a camp located near Burma Town, Islamabad. “The Pakistan high commission is issuing liberal visas to Kashmiri youths who visit there on the pretext of meeting their relatives,” said sources.
 
 Sources are of the view that instead of infiltrating militants through treacherous Line of Control which carries an immense risk of being killed in the encounter, Pakistan’s ISI finds it convenient to invite Kashmiri youths on valid visas and train them in subversive activities before sending them back to India.
 
 “In this system, the Kashmir youths are going to Pakistan on a valid visa issued by Pakistan high commission and coming back to evade any suspicion. But a sudden influx and bruise marks on their hands are cause of concern and we have sent our report,” said sources.
 
 “We have reports that there are modules operating in the valley who even send Kashmir youths to Pakistan via Nepal on valid visa,” said sources, adding that since the Attari route was much closer from J&K so it has become the first choice of militants to cross over to Pakistan for arms training.
 
 
