CHANDIGARH: Angry supporters of  , who was on Saturday awarded life imprisonment in connection with assassination of former Punjab chief minister Beant Singh, raised pro-Khalistan slogans outside the jail. A large number of Tara’s supporters, besides members of his family, had converged at the high security   jail here, where the convict is currently lodged.

 Tara’s family members, who were allowed inside the jail when the sentence was pronounced, appeared undeterred by the ruling. He has sacrificed his life for ‘Sikh Kaum’, they said. 
 
 Meanwhile, as Tara was awarded life imprisonment till death, he expressed regret to having killed 16 innocent persons in the explosion that killed the then chief minister. However, he had no regret over Beant Singh’s death, saying he was “responsible for the killing of number of other innocent persons in Punjab.”
 
 Beant was killed in a bomb blast outside Punjab and Haryana secretariat on August 31, 1995. The explosion had killed others, including Punjab Police constable Dilawar Singh, who acted as a human bomb. Tara was charged under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and under Sections 3 and 4 of the Explosive Substances Act.
 
 Complianant Pala Ram
 
 The case was registered on the compliant of Haryana Armed Police constable Pala Ram. He was on sentry duty at the VIP Gate of the Punjab and Haryana Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh when then CM Beant Singh was assassinated. The case was initially investigated by the Chandigarh Police before being handed over to   in September 1,1995
 
 Crime scene as explained in judgment
 
 “A number of bodies were found scattered all over the place of occurrence. The body of Beant Singh was found in a badly charred condition in the back seat of Car No. PB-08-3469. Pieces of human flesh were scattered all over the place of occurrence. The ceiling of the VIP lounge was found to be completely shattered. The false ceiling of the porch was found to have collapsed. The magnitude of the explosion was such that window panes up to the 6th storey were broken. A number of people were found to have been injured. 
 
 January 21, 2004
 
 Three accused — Jagtar Singh Hawara, Balwant Singh Rajoana and Jagtar Singh Tara — escape from Burail jail after digging a 100-ft tunnel. Rearrested later
 
 July 27, 2007 
 
 Six accused — Hawara, Rajoana, Gurmeet Singh, Lakhwinder Singh,   and Naseeb Singh — convicted and Navjot Singh acquitted
 
 July 31, 2007
 
 Hawara and Rajoana awarded death sentence; Gurmeet Singh, Lakhwinder Singh and Shamsher Singh given life imprisonment; Naseeb gets 10-year jail
 
 March 31, 2010
 
 Paramjit Singh Bheora, then BKI chief of operations (India), gets death sentence
 
 Six declared POs
 
 Wadhwa Singh Babbar, Mehal Singh Babbar and   are in Pakistan; Resham Singh is in Germany; Manjinder Singh is in the UK; and Harjeet Singh is in the US
 
 
