KOLKATA:  , a techie riding to his office at Bantala, was hauled up by a police officer last Monday for riding with his earphones plugged in. He was allowed to go when he showed he was not speaking on the mobile. The next day, he was again stopped at the same place for the same reason by another officer. He again showed he wasn’t over the phone, but this time, he was fined.

 The police crackdown on speaking on cellphone while driving has led to several confusion and queries among motorists. Can speaking on a Bluetooth device or listening to music on earphones while driving amount to an offence as well? Relegated to a grey area in the three-decade-old rule, the offence of speaking on phone while driving has led to endless confusion but no proper answer seems to be in sight as the order did not specify anything on the use of earphones or a Bluetooth device while driving.
 
 The debate started with the state transport department issuing a notification on February 1, activating rules that enabled cops to classify speaking on mobiles while driving under the “dangerous driving” category. The notice came three days after 44 people were killed when a bus crashed through a bridge and plunged into a waterbody in   while the driver was apparently over the phone. The new rule was an amendment of Section 184 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, which stated that whoever drove a vehicle in a manner that was dangerous to the public should be held liable. Earlier, the penalty was a paltry Rs 100 to Rs 300, but now, the fine was increased to Rs 1,000 to Rs 3,000. A repeat offender’s licence could even be suspended.
 
 But earphones or Bluetooth devices weren’t mentioned in the new rule. “There lies a grey area and the prosecution depends on the circumstances. With a Bluetooth device and earphones plugged in, it is difficult to see if a motorist is speaking on the phone or listening to music. Either way, it is a distraction and he/she should refrain from using it,” said a senior Lalbazar officer.
 
 Section 218(2) of Motor Vehicles Act prohibited a motorist from wearing earphones. Section 218(3) stated “no radio set/video set/gramophone/microphone/cassette recorder or any other apparatus to display and object on the screen with or without provision for amplification of sound, voice etc shall be operated....” The law could be interpreted as anyone found using earphones while driving can be punished. It also meant music, either on the audio system or earphones or any display device, including GPS, could attract penalty.
 
 “While speaking on phone or listening to music, the brain concentrates more on the phone and less on driving. Attention is diverted from the road. The brain can’t take timely and logical action, increasing the risk of accidents,” said a senior traffic officer.
 
 Times View
 
 Implementation of rules must be fair and uniform. Arbitrary execution of this laudable idea to reduce accidents will backfire.
 
