KOLARAS/BHOPAL: Taking cognizance of Congress’ complaint, Election   on Sunday evening issued a show-cause notice to minister for sports Yashodhara   for violation of model code of conduct and trying to influence voters before the by-poll scheduled for February 24. Raje will have to reply to the   by Wednesday explaining her statement made during an election campaign meeting at village   on Saturday afternoon. In a video, attributed to Raje, she is allegedly heard threatening voters of the village that they will get water only if they voted for the   candidate.

 Her comment came when a villager sitting in the audience during her speech at the village complained that there is no water and all the tube-wells are dry. In reply, the sports minister said, “Paani tab ayyega jab aap panje ko vote nehi doge. Do baar aapne panje ko vote diya aur kitne baar aur doge aur paani ke bina rahoge (water will come when you do not vote for the hand symbol. You have voted for the hand twice and how many more times do you want to vote for the hand and live without water)” 
 
 Yashodhara directly threatened voters: Cong spokesman
 
 Not stopping at this, the minister further said it was a matter of understanding the situation. She explained, “When you vote for a  , he makes a list of all your problems and comes to us. And then government solves your problem or else backwardness remains.”
 
 She further told the crowd, “It is our government and if you do not vote for BJP then backwardness will remain. If you vote for the  , then I will not speak with you and I am a minister. Entire council of ministers will not work for you.”
 
 Hours after her comment, state Congress spokesman and legal cell chief JP Dhanopia took the matter to the state Election Commission office. His letter claimed that Yashodhara Raje was directly threatening voters and asking them to vote for the BJP. Dhanopia complained that voters are being told they will not get water if they did not vote for the BJP candidate. He asked the EC to take immediate action against the sports minister for free and fair elections in Kolaras.
 
 The Congress also submitted the entire video of her alleged threat speech. In a report to the state electoral officer, the district returning officer and collector district collector Shivpuri Tarun Rathi has given a clean Yashodhara Raje a chit and not found any model code of conduct violation.
 
 But, within 24 hours, the EC served Raje a notice saying, “Whereas, the Commission considers that the statements made by you in your above referred speech, primafacie, amounts to undue influence within the meaning of Section 171C of IPC and Section 123(2) of the Representation of People Act, 1951, and amounts to violation of the provisions of the above quoted Para-1(4) of the Model Code of Conduct.”
 
 Raje has been asked to reply by 10 am on Wednesday failing which further appropriate action will be taken against her. Meanwhile, Yashodhara Raje tweeted, “I have been following a very busy schedule for the past 15 days campaigning for Kolaras bypoll. Last evening, I addressed a public meeting at village Kharai and then my eyes fell on this billboard and couldn’t help laughing and forgot all worries. No tension…!!” The billboard she mentioned advertised, “No tension Jain Mistanna Bhandar.” 
 
