VISAKHAPATNAM: Although 75 years have passed and C Ratnamani is 100 years old, she cannot forget April 6, 1942. It was a day like no other. She can still hear the ‘boom’ echo in her ears as if it was only yesterday. Not many Vizagites, who are used to the peace and quiet of this city, know why the date is important to Visakhapatnam’s history. On April 6, 1942, during   II, the city was bombed by   forces and had they been successful Visakhapatnam would have been wiped from the face of the world. 

 As per war records, not only was it the first air raids on India in the War, but also nine Vizagites lost their lives in it. On the eve of 76th anniversary of the day, several people, like centenarian C Ratnamani, recalled the day for TOI. One among them is John  , who although not born during the times, his family was present when the air raids happened. 
 
 They left the city for Melbourne in 1965. Castellas, a retired general manager, engineering at Boeing and Qantas Airways, now works as a lecturer in aviation management at Swinburne University. Although away from home, Castellas continues to love his city. It is this love that drives him to research and study the city’s history. 
 
 Castellas spoke about Visakhapatnam’s Royal Air Force pilots. Flight Lt David Small and Anglo-Indian pilot, officer Maurice Barker, flew two Wapitis from Dum Dum to Vizagapatam (the older name of Visakhapatnam and at that time it was a district in the Madras Presidency of British India). He said that the way in which the two pilots on their first patrol, shadowed a Japanese battle squadron in an aged Wapiti J9754 at a speed of 100 miles an hour can be found in ‘Forgotten Skies – Story of the Air Forces in India and Burma’ by Wing Commander W Russell. Barker (later IAF Air Marshall Maurice Barker PVSM), was the first Anglo-Indian to join the  .
 
 He continued that on April 6, during their first patrol within 30 miles off Vizagpatnam port, they noticed flashes in the sky and then an aircraft carrier, carrying several cruisers and destroyers ‘belching fire’ at a merchant vessel. They identified it as part of the Japanese fleet. Small put through a long-distance call to alert his offices at Calcutta and Ceylon. But the warnings of the Wapiti pilots were ignored and later that day Visakahapatnam was bombed.
 
 Recalling those turbulent times, Ratnamani said, “April 1942 bombing is still in my mind – I can still hear the planes whizzing past and the sirens. I can still feel the fear in my bones as I rushed to a safe spot and the panic among people. Immediately after the bombing, my husband Colluru Venkata Ramana Murty sent me and our daughters to   with just two cloth bags and a “gattidi/mutta” (packing stuff in a big cloth). Those were different days, communication was poor; fear of war, shortage of basic requirements and homesickness caused great anxiety and real stress.”
 
 
