BENGALURU: The   ( ) has launched efforts to revive the much hyped and delayed   (ITIR) at Devanahalli. The project was first conceived and ratified by the   in 2009-2010, but a tepid response from the industry put it on the backburner.

 The project was first envisioned on 10,000 acres, but the government is now attempting to launch the project on a smaller scale. KIADB officials, on Wednesday, met owners of 2,072 acres of farmland and it will have to overcome several challenges before the project is brought to fruition.
 
 KIADB special duty commissioner S N Balachandra, said: “We’ve been informed by the government to look into land acquisition, so we held a meeting with farmers on Wednesday. It was a consultation meeting to understand what the farmers’ demands are and how much money is required if the project goes forward. We will submit our findings to the government.”
 
 Balachandra saidthere are two ways to acquire land: By signing an agreement and paying an agreedsum, or, in the absence of such agreements, pay compensation that will be threeor four timeshigher than theexisting guidance value. In September last year, industries minister R V Deshpande had indicated that the project couldbeshelveddueto poor response from industry, but IT minister   suggested that there could be demand, including from emerging technology firms and start-ups. Gaurav Gupta, information technology principal secretary said the government expects demand to pick up over the next few years.
 
 “The meeting is only the first step to understand what costs the project will involve since we’re trying to implement the project without the Centre’s help,” Gupta said.
 
 The industry is optimistic, but cautious as well. While some representatives TOI spoke to expressed concern over the government’s inability toimplement big-ticket projects, some others saidthat itwillserve the industry well.
 
 “The IT industry is expanding and in the new wave are a number of start-ups and new technology firms,” former Infosys CFO T V, Mohandas Pai, said. “However, while the KIADB has the power to acquire land for the project, I think that the project mustbe given to private players like Mahindra Lifespacessothat ithas allthefacilities, including residential and other infrastructure. Also, they would be better in marketing the space too.”
 
 He said the government must also ensure Metro rail connectivity and believed there would demand for more such projects.
 
 J Crasta, executive member of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), said the KIADB has no competence to implement such projects.
 
 He said unless the government figures out a way to provide land at affordable rates, it will meet the same fate as the aerospace park which has no takers.
 
