HYDERABAD: Starting academic year 2018-19, intermediate to post-graduate courses will become a tad expensive as the Telangana government is set to enhance the fee structure by 10%.

 The decision to enhance the fee structure was taken at a meeting between members of the Telangana Government Recognised Educational Institutions Joint Action Committee (JAC) and deputy chief minister and education minister   on Friday evening.
 
 
  
 
 “For the past five years, we have been demanding that the government enhance fee structures for intermediate, degree and PG courses. The deputy chief minister agreed to enhance the fee structure by 10% and informed that the orders declaring the same shall be issued by March 31,” said  , president of JAC.
 
 JAC members said the final approval for fee enhancement will be sought from chief minister   following which orders will be issued by March-end. If the decision to enhance the fee structure is taken, over 12 lakh students will be affected.
 
 During the meeting, several other key issues regarding affiliation process, fee reimbursement scheme among others were discussed. JAC members had demanded the government to affiliate intermediate colleges for a period of five years.
 
 “The   issues annual affiliation to all colleges. Agreeing to our demand, the government is considering affiliating intermediate colleges for a period of five years from the ensuing academic year. Even colleges functioning out of temporary buildings will be considered for affiliations during academic year 2018-19,” said Reddy.
 
 JAC members also demanded exemption and relaxation in property and municipal taxes, power tariffs and fire safety rules for degree and post-graduate college managements. Apart from this, JAC members urged the minister to clear fee reimbursement dues for students who are enrolled with ePass.
 
 “The fee as per Degree Online Services Telangana portal for BSc in computer science is Rs 12,500 and that for students enrolled with ePass is Rs 10,000. We are unable to recover the difference of Rs 2,500. We have demanded that the government resolve this issue,” said Reddy.
 
 The minister assured the college managements that the government would clear fee reimbursement dues up to 2017 by March-end.
 
 
