NEW DELHI: Taking the first step towards initiation of formal consultations on   to the Lok Sabha and state assemblies, senior   representatives informed the   last week that the views of the poll watchdog as well as other stakeholders would be sought on the feasibility of the exercise.

 
 Chief Election Commissioner O P Rawat is learned to have assured the Law Commission member-secretary that the EC’s legal team would work closely with the panel to offer it all help through suggestions and clarifications on the issue of holding simultaneous polls.
 
 The consultations planned by the Law Commission will include all stakeholders, including EC, political parties, the Centre, state governments as well as legal and Constitutional experts.
 
 Sources indicated that amendments needed to the Constitution as well as election laws to make synchronised polls possible are unlikely to be in place any time soon. “Assembly polls in five states — Andhra, Odisha, Sikkim, Telangana and Arunachal Pradesh — are due along with 2019 Lok Sabha poll. Maharashtra and Haryana, both ruled by BJP, are due for polls a few months later. Possibly, the BJP governments in these states can bring them forward to align them with the Lok Sabha poll. This would simply involve early dissolution and not require any amendments to the law. So seven state polls can technically be held with the General Elections in 2019,” said an EC functionary.
 
 A source said the assembly polls in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Mizoram — due in December this year — cannot be delayed. “President’s rule for a few months is not an option as there has to be either a breakdown of law and order machinery or Constitution to justify invoking Article 356,” said an official.
 
 The possibility of bringing forward the Lok Sabha poll is also ruled out, considering that first-level checks on the new VVPAT-enabled EVMs are expected to be done by December.
 
 According to sources, the consultation by the Law Commission itself may take some months.“If at all, we may be looking at simultaneous polls by the next Lok Sabha cycle after 2019,” said an officer.
 
 
