BENGALURU: The high court on Monday upheld the Centre’s decision to entrust the investigation in the RSS worker   to the   (NIA).

 Allowing two writ appeals filed by Union ministry of home affairs (MHA), a division bench comprising Justice H G Ramesh and Justice P S Dinesh Kumar observed that the file relating to the case received consideration at various levels of MHA and there is no error in Centre invoking suo motu power under NIA Act, following a communication sent by the Bengaluru police commissioner on November 24, 2016.
 
 “The home ministry, based on the communication by the police commissioner, had on its record, inclusion of offences under Unlawful Activities Act. Though requested, the state government did not send their report. Notings in the ministry’s file indicate that it had sufficient material to notice that ‘scheduled offences’ were included in the case. The file received consideration at various levels in the ministry as also from minister of state and the Union home minister,” the bench observed while setting aside the March 21, 2017 single bench’s order.
 
 “When the home ministry’s order is examined by applying the parameters mentioned in the judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Heinz India (P) Ltd., it would lead to an irresistible inference that the exercise of power by the home ministry does not suffer from any legal infirmity. We say so, because, legislature has conferred upon the executive the power to direct NIA to take up investigation. Facts on record of the ministry’s file do not indicate that the decision making process is faulty in any manner,” the bench further noted.
 
 On March 21, 2017, a single bench had quashed the December 7, 2016 order issued by the Centre to entrust the probe to the NIA holding that the requirements under section 6(5) of the NIA Act, 2008 were not complied and there was no opinion formed with regards to whether the accused had committed scheduled offences or not.
 
 Partly allowing petitions filed by the five accused, the single bench, however, had permitted the local Commercial Street police to continue the investigation under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.
 
 On April 7, 2017, a division bench had passed an interim order permitting the NIA to continue the probe, observing that the same is subject to the result of the writ appeal filed by MHA.
 
 
