THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief secretary   has warned all-India service (AIS) officers against violating rules that need to be followed before taking a foreign trip. This warning came after one   officer in Kerala went abroad without the knowledge or permission of the government 

 The chief secretary's circular - issued on April 4 and circulated to all the  , police and forest service officers - accessed by TOI says: A circular was issued after the government took note of a foreign journey by an AIS officer without obtaining prior approval after he received an invitation.
 
 "All AIS officers working in the cadre are requested to take prior permission of the state government before proceeding on foreign journeys, either on official purpose or personal purposes. Any violation of the aforesaid instruction will be viewed seriously," the circular stated. It also added that the circular would be applicable to officers on deputation and even ex-cadre posts.
 
 There were several instances when AIS officers courted controversies due to their foreign trips. DGP Tomin J Thachankary, who had undertaken a foreign trip to the Gulf without taking the government's permission, was suspended from service in 2010. Another IAS officer, who undertook an overseas trip without government's permission was severely reprimanded by the then chief secretary   in 2014.
 
 In the latest instance, Antony informed DGP   that the government had denied him permission to travel abroad as he was not cooperating with the disciplinary proceedings and inquiry against him.
 
 While sources close to Thomas claimed that the government's action was retaliatory and vengeful, with the sole intention of harassing him, the government had allowed him to undertake a month-long foreign trip to the US from February 7 to March 11.
 
 Though the subject of foreign travel is the domain of the Centre, the department of personnel and training has delegated some of the foreign travel-related responsibilities to state governments. 
 
 
