PATNA:  , a constituent college of   has become first higher education institute in Bihar to introduce the House System for undergraduate students with the name of ‘Sahodara- The daughters of same Mother’. Inaugurating the House System in college premises on Friday, veteran actor-turned politician Shatrughan Sinha asked the students to prove themselves better than the best or different from the rest.

 BJP MP Sinha urged students to be self-confident. “In this competitive world, people should have commitment, determination, devotion and passion that ‘I can do this’. This self-confidence will help you to reach the success and the comfort level in life. It is important in this era, to maintain your originality,” he said.
 
 Sharing his own experience, Sinha spoke about his journey in film industry to politicis and relationship with his co-stars.
 
 Sinha hand-over the badges and sashes to captain and vice-captain of each house- Jagriti (Red), Maitri (Orange), Pragati (Green) and Samriddhi (Blue). Rafat Naseem and Nidhi Kumari become the captain and vice-captain of Jagriti house respectively whereas Anushka and Bhavprita was the captain and vice-captain of Pragati house. Vadana Rani was the captain of Maitri house and the vice-captain was Nisha. The captain of Samriddhi was Shipra Singh and the vice-captain was Shambhavi Swaraj. The representative of each house took oath.
 
 Sinha appreciated the college administration for taking the initiative of House System at higher education. He promised to extend all possible support to promote the institution to achieve its goal in welfare of students.
 
 Elaborating the importance of House System in college, MMC principal Shashi Sharma said, “There are two reasons that we implement this- first to bridge the gap between underprivileged students and rich one and the other reason was to strengthen our old tradition which people are forgetting ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’. It will provide immense opportunities to the college students to develop all aspects of their growth and learning. It may advocate team-spirit among students.”
 
 The principal also talked about the achievements and development work of the institute. The guest of honor of the event was PU’s Pro-VC Prof Dolly Sinha.
 
