The class was progressing at a boring pace, leaving the teenagers restless. 

 For one of the tenth graders, the straying thoughts became musical. Even after the class was over, he didn’t let go of the tunes that emerged in his mind, and put them together for his first album, titled Snehathode. Thrissur gadi   was just 16 at that time. “One of my relatives helped me with the lyrics. 
 M y parents were not so convinced in the beginning, but eventually supported me. Singer Jyotsna, who was my classmate, sang one of the songs. The rest of the singers included State Award winner Asha G Menon, Afsal and Madhu Balakrishnan. That was the time I realised my true passion in life, music direction.”
 
 Kailas debuted in Mollywood with the 2011 film Pakarnnattam directed by Jayaraj. He also scored the music for the much-discussed film Starring Pournami, which got shelved. 
 
 Kailas has been part of the music industry for more than 10 years now, but it’s recently that his name became a household one. His songs for the Tovino film Theevandi has created a buzz in the online space. About composing for Theevandi, he says, “I knew its director, Fellini, from 2013. I had composed the music for an ad he directed. He had liked my tracks in Starring Pournami as well. And that’s what paved the way for us working together.”
 
 Jeevamshamai, the romantic track he composed for the film, sung by Harisankar and Shreya Ghoshal, has been swooping up credits from all corners, including Shreya herself. “It’s a composition in reethigawla ragam. While recording, Shreya asked me which the corresponding ragam in Hindustani is. I told her there isn’t one, and she said it’s seldom that singers get to try such songs these days.” Kalias, who has composed four out of the five tracks in the film, adds, “The film’s director Fellini had told me, ‘You can take all your creative liberties with three of the songs. However, the romantic track should be superb as a stand-alone number even after 20 years.’ But, making it a raga-based composition was not intentional.”
 
 While Jeevamshamai is a nostalgic track with an eighties feel, the rest of the songs in the movie are totally different. “Alongside composing four songs in this movie, I have also tried singing in one of them. Theevandi is a political satire, and its title track, sung by Alphonse and me, is a song laced with sarcasm, about our politicians and the general state of affairs in the State. Tha Thinnam by Job Kurian and a fun fast track sung by Sodakku fame Antony Dassan are the other songs,” he says.
 
 Soon after he completed his studies in visual communication and sound engineering in 2007, Kailas has been composing jingles. And it’s his experience in the world of ads and jingles which helped him to be versatile, he says. “I started out as an assistant to composer Ouseppachan sir. Gopi Sunder was working as his keyboard programmer then. When Gopi’s sound engineer left, I took over and worked with him for two years. It’s around the same time that I got to compose for an ad. Thankfully, it was followed by another project – the ad of a renowned jewellery. It clicked, and kept bringing me more offers for jingles. In 10 years, I guess I have composed around 1000,” he says. Kailas has worked in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, and even Arabic, in addition to Malayalam.
 Every single jingle that came his way demanded him to be versatile and comfortable with many styles of music. “It gave me the confidence to handle all kinds of songs easily and I believe that’s what’s reflecting in Theevandi’s jukebox as well,” he says, in all humility.
 
 Kailas’ upcoming project is an Arabic film titled 11 Days, in which there are two tracks composed by him.
 
 
