New Delhi:   of north Delhi will now be able to get   banquet hall-level services in the municipal corporation’s   centres. In a bid to raise more revenue sources, the cash-strapped corporation has decided to outsource the upper floors of 42 of its community centres to private players under a cluster policy. North corporation has estimated that it will be able to raise revenue worth over Rs 12.6 crore annually through this remunerative project.

 “We have divided the 42 community centres into three clusters so that the private players can make up for any loss if they are in less popular sites. We are expecting them to repair and maintain the facilities,” an official from north corporation overseeing the project said. North corporation has overall 122 community centres, 37 gyms and eight swimming pools. Off late, it has been devising policies to make use of the underutilised units for revenue generation.
 
 Under the current project, the first, second and third floors of the underutilised centres will be handed over to the private players for a monthly license fee. “We have kept the ground floors to be used by the corporation so that people have an option to avail facilities at cheaper rates too. The three clusters are made up of 12, 13 and 17 community centres respectively,” an official said.
 
 As many as 13 community centres are located in Civil Lines areas including Bungalow Road, Timarpur, Roop Nagar and Shadinagar. In the second cluster, 17 community centers are from Rohini zone in places like Rani Bagh, Shalimar Bagh, Sector-3, 4, 13, 15 and 11, among others. The third cluster comprises of 12 centres spread over SP, City and Karol Bagh zone and includes places like Inderpuri, New Rajinder Nagar, Ramesh Nagar, East Patel Nagar and DB Gupta Road.
 
 The civic body has restricted the nature of use of the space for “marriages, social and cultural events only. The monthly license fee of each cluster varies based on factors like location, covered area, circle rate, cost of construction and land cost. We will be able to receive over Rs 1 crore every month,” an official said.
 
 
