Panaji: Working odd as well as long hours, lugging heavy equipment around and being on one’s feet the entire day are just some of the hazards that   photographers have to put up with.

 Despite the state boasting of some of the best socioeconomic indicators in the country and its popularity as a wedding destination growing, it is still a rare sight to see a lady wielding a camera during the festivities.
 
 For the few professional woman   in the state whose repertoire includes capturing that special and hectic day of a couple, the journey has been challenging but rewarding. 
 
 Samantha Da Cunha, proprietor of Studio Grey, is able to take photographs right through the night with utmost ease. Considering her telephoto lens and camera weigh a good 3kg and all her equipment a little over 10kg, it hasn’t been a cake walk. 
 
 Taking it up as a challenge when she started out eight years ago, she joined the gym for upper body exercises, to ensure that her arms were strong enough to take steady pictures with a telephoto lens. “You require a lot of physical energy to ensure that you’re not drained out during a wedding,” says Da Cunha, who credits her sound technical background to her masters in photography course. She is the lone woman in her team of 15 photographers today. 
 
 When Melba Fernandes of Melba Photography got into professional wedding photography five years ago, she did get that occasional ‘does she know what she’s doing’ look. Her petite and skinny stature didn’t help her case but she wasn’t disheartened. 
 
 Her pictures soon did the talking and before she knew orders began pouring in. 
 
 There are perks to being a woman photographer in a traditionally male dominated industry. 
 
 People are friendlier she finds. “Everyone warms up to a woman photographer. Men tend to be on their best behaviour when   are around, let alone women armed with a camera, ” says Fernandes, who learnt the ropes of professional photography after being introduced to it at the Goa College of Art. 
 
 Many brides are also more comfortable decking up for their big day, around female photographers, giving them an edge over their male counterparts. 
 
 “As a woman I can understand any discomfort a bride has with her body and work around it,” says Da Cunha. 
 
 For Chetana Bhat of Chetana Bhat Photography, being a woman has worked to her advantage too. She has been let in to shoot many a closed community wedding, something that would have been almost out of bounds for a man. She was also invited to capture the special day for an LGBT couple who refused a male photographer. 
 
 Society is shedding its stereotypical thinking and have been particularly welcoming to women photographers. 
 
 She has personally found people awestruck during a shoot. “I have been complimented and appreciated and am repeatedly reminded of how proud they are to see a lady take up photography professionally,” says Bhat. 
 
 It was Goa’s first professional lady photographer Palmira   (1924-2014), proprietor of Hollywood Studio in Panaji, who paved the way for the young women, making a name for herself in the pre-digital era. 
 
 Back when women were almost always on the other side of the lens, Coutinho did both indoor as well as outdoor shoots using her Rolleiflex and Voigtlander cameras, respectively. 
 
 The only professional woman photographer during her time, mothers would feel comfortable bringing their daughters of marriageable age to her studio, all decked up in their sarees for profile pictures. “When a suitable match was found many grateful mothers would return with peddas,” recalls Coutinho’s son, Olencio Coutinho. 
 
 Palmira did wedding photography, too. “Back then you had to be sure of what you were doing. There were no hundreds of pictures to choose from. She would use four rolls... six at the most, but not more. Only necessary pictures were taken with utmost caution and none were wasted. Today, even the wedding decor and ice carvings find their way into wedding albums,” observes Olencio. 
 
 
