CHANDIGARH: Will you act only when your family members become snatching victims, the Punjab and Haryana high court thundered on Wednesday while slamming the   for its failure to curb the crime in the city.

 During the resumed hearing of the case following a petition alleging failure of the   the rising incidents of chain snatchings, the high court directed the police to give a status report on preventive measures and steps to be taken to stop snatchings by the next hearing on March 21.
 
  
 The police tried to defend its position, claiming that out of 950 snatchings in the last five years, they have “resolved” 650 cases. But the high court was not impressed. “We are not concerned about data, figures and statistics. We are concerned about safety and security of citizens who do not feel secure even inside their homes,” a division bench of the high court replied. The court asked what about the rest of the 300 cases, asking the meaning of “resolving”, to which the police had no answer.
 
 The court also observed that snatching is increasing daily and everyday newspapers are full of snatching cases. The police, on the other hand, said the incidents are being reported as they are registering FIRs immediately, whereas the case is not the same in Punjab and Haryana. The police claimed snatchers are being arrested. The high court then asked, “What action is being taken?” It directed the police to “speak by action”, saying citizens should feel safe.
 
 The high court said the police have miserably failed to stop snatchings. It observed that people have started feeling the police are following a relaxed approach against the crime and that is the reason there is no fear among criminals.
 
 The high court directed the police to impose maximum punishment on snatchers, saying these crimes and offences should be made non-bailable.
 
 Police argued 14,000 CCTV cameras have been installed in Chandigarh to curb the menace. The high court then asked the police to mention a single instance where the snatching has been caught on camera. “If the CCTV cameras do not operate at the right time, they are useless.” The police said they needed high-resolution CCTV cameras for better coverage, to which the high court asked them to install them and questioned who is stopping them from doing that? The high court also directed the police to report how many incidents of snatching have been captured on CCTV cameras.
 
 
