NAGPUR: The indefinite strike launched by drivers and conductors of city bus service ended on Wednesday with the   invoking Essential Services and Maintenance Act ( ) against the 2,200 striking employees. Still, the service could not resume to full extent.

 Against the regular count of 375, all operators put together could only operate 145 buses even as their union, Shiv Sena-affiliated Bharatiya Kamgar Sena, called off the strike. NMC’s transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde, expressing regret over the strike, blamed the city police for not extending cooperation to operate the buses smoothly even though ESMA had been invoked from Tuesday evening.
 
 Kukde said after getting ESMA order, the civic body immediately communicated it to the city police, including commissioner of police K  , deputy commissioners of police Smartana Patil, Ravindrasinh Pardeshi and Rakesh Ola. “We handed over a list of bus employees and leaders instigating the employees to go on strike,” he claimed. But police neither detained the miscreants nor helped NMC operate the bus service, he said.
 
 The commuters’ ordeal eased a little in the second half of Wednesday after the red bus operators resumed services using ad hoc drivers. “Today in the first shift, the NMC could operate only 50 buses on various busy routes,” Kukde said, adding that the bus service was provided free to citizens.
 
 Meanwhile, the bus operators sacked 18 employees — mostly drivers — with immediate effect, he said. They include include Union’s president Bhaurao Rewatkar and secretary Ambadas Shende.
 
 Kukde said action will also be taken against seven private firms including four bus operators (three red and one green), two ticketing agencies and Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transit System (DIMTS), the firm entrusted with monitoring city bus operation, for their failure to run operations.
 
 Kukde said he will propose action against NMC’s transport department for its failure to ensure smooth operation of city bus service to mayor Nanda Jichkar and chief minister  . Since NMC took over the city bus operations, there have been four strikes in it. Despite instructions to the transport department to keep 100 drivers on reserve in case of emergency, it was not done. 
 
 Blaming the   led union for the strike, Kukde said even though the union circulated the message of calling off the strike, it had not submitted any written communication to the NMC and city police. “Instead, the striking employees not only tried to prevent drivers and conductors to resume duties, they also damaged many buses,” he said.
 
 “The party should take disciplinary action against former corporator Bandu Talwekar for misleading the employees,” he said.
 
 Talwekar said the strike was launched as the NMC failed to implement minimum wages for the bus employees. Despite repeated memoranda to civic chief  , the NMC failed to act, he said. 
 
 Instead of implementing minimum wages, NMC invoked ESMA and forced the striking employees, who were protesting for their rights in a democratic way, to end their strike. He said the union will challenge ESMA in the high court.
 
 Talwekar said the strike was called off late on Wednesday and only 10% of the staffers could resume duty. He said everyone will join from Thursday.
 
 Kukde said NMC was not certain the employees will resume duty. “So, we have decided to keep ad hoc drivers ready to operate buses on Thursday,” he said. Venkatesham was not available for comments. 
 
 
