NEW DELHI: A ‘double Diwali’ in 2017 — on the back of advancement of purchases due to the GST rollout — ensured that car and SUV sales rose the fastest since 2013 and crossed the 3-million mark for the first time ever. Even the demonetisation blues could not curb spirits as new models — especially SUVs — and attractive discounts aided the near 10 per cent surge in volumes.

 According to initial industry estimates, passenger vehicle sales in 2017 grew by 9.2 per cent to nearly 3.2 million against 2.9 million units in 2016. “These are initial estimates, and the final numbers could be even higher,” an industry source said.
 
 The growth comes despite doubts at the beginning of the year over where the industry had been heading. The start of the year was nearly at the peak of demonetisation (announced on November 8, 2016) and buyers — short of cash — were keeping off showrooms and new purchases.
 
 “The industry has done well, and we are looking forward to the new year now,” Maruti chairman   told TOI. The company sold a record 1.6 million cars in 2017 at a growth of 15 per cent, and this meant selling one in every two cars.
 
 After the initial fears around demonetisation, things started turning around as pent-up demand was unleashed on fears of a duty hike in the GST regime that was rolled out from July. Rakesh  , director (sales & marketing) at  , said, “The GST implementation had led to uncertainty and fear in the minds of people who thought that prices will go up. This led to strong growth in April-June period.”
 
 Another factor that aided the demand was good monsoon that saw good uptake in rural and semi-urban areas. Sugato Sen, deputy DG at industry body Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam), said, “On an average, rains were much better than the last two-three years. This helped in realising higher rural demand.”
 
 Company executives said that the festive season also remained “fruitful”, which helped in the continuation of the momentum. “Even as we have crossed an all-time high, we expect 2018 also to be good. The economy should do well, and help the market respond positively,” Sen said.
 
 SUVs have been a big driver in boosting the demand for passenger vehicles, and much has been riding on models such as Maruti’s Brezza, Hyundai’s Creta and the newly-launched Jeep’s Compass.
 
  
  
 
