HYDERABAD: Very shortly, one can expect to see plumbers, electricians, painters and masons from Hyderabad and rural Telangana working in top-notch companies in Europe. This is because these skilled personnel will have in hand certificates issued by the   ( ), which is soon to be recognised in Europe and the Middle East.

 NAC, which issues certificates after training in various skills’ upgradation, in coordination with the National Development Corporation, a unit of Union skill development ministry, is tying up with UK-based National Open Colleges Network ( ) for its recognition.
 
 Once the tie-up happens, the certificates issued by the NOCN-recognised institutions will be accepted in Europe and the Middle East. “The proposal sent by us (NAC) to the state government to enter into an MoU with NOCN has been accepted and within two to three months, the NAC would have NOCN accreditation,” said a source. NAC director K   confirmed to TOI that they are in the process of upgrading their training module, as per international standards, to suit the NOCN accreditation and also make appropriate changes in the syllabus, equipment and labs at the academy.
  
  
 “Representatives from the NOCN will visit NAC and inspect whether all the standard norms for accreditation have been adhered to. Based on the inspection report, recognition would be granted making NAC-issued certificates eligible to those trained here in various skills to apply for jobs in Europe and the Middle East,” Bhikshapathy said.
 
 It was roads and buildings minister Tummala Nageswara Rao who had asked NAC to work out the possibilities of providing jobs to the skilled manpower trained at NAC in foreign countries.
 
 NAC has also tied up with one of the leading multi-diversified bathroom solutions brand ‘Jaquar group’ in the world to set up a stateof-the-art plumber training lab at NAC at a cost of nearly Rs 1 crore. NAC is also in talks with Asian Paints to set up its lab. An electrical and solar power lab meeting international standard norms is also on the anvil in NAC located at   in  .
 
 Bhikshapathy said once NOCN accreditation is granted, their expert faculty will train trainers at NAC. For skill upgradation courses like that of electrician, NAC is insisting on a minimum 10th or SSC qualification.
 
 
