PATNA: Governor Satya Pal Malik, chief minister Nitish Kumar and people from cross sections of society have congratulated folk singer Sharda Sinha and scientist Manas Bihari Verma on being named as   awardees from the state. Sinha (66), a noted folk singer, will get   in the field of art and music and Verma (75), who was associated with the light combat aircraft Tejas project, Padma Shri in the field of science and engineering. Altogether 85 people will be awarded Padma awards in different categories this year. 

 The two Padma awardees from the state have also thanked the people for their support and promised to continue their services to the society. 
 
 Sinha, widely acclaimed for her Chhath songs, had retired from Women’s College, Samastipur, as a music teacher in October last year. She now plans to open a music academy in the state and train budding folk singers.
 
 Sinha, the only sister among nine siblings, said it was her father Shukdev Thakur, a government official, who supported her to make a career in the field of music. “Those were the times when girls were not even allowed to move out of the house. However, my father was open-minded. It was he who brought me close to literature, poems and music. After my marriage, my husband Braj Kishore Sinha too supported me. These two men in my life have played a key vital role in making me what I am today,” Sinha told TOI over phone. 
 
 Verma, former director of Aeronautical Development Agency, Bangalore, came back to Darbhanga after his retirement in July 2005. He is running an NGO, Vikshit Bharat Foundation, at Laheriasarai. The NGO runs two mobile science laboratories (MVLs) equipped with 165 science models. These vans move in the rural areas of Darbhanga, Madhubani and parts of flood-prone Supaul district to provide practical science education to kids. 
 
 “It was former President A P J Abul Kalam Azad who inspired me to start MVL. Without improving school education, we cannot improve higher education system,” he added.
 
 Verma, who was born at Baur village under Ghanshyampur block in Darbhanga, always wanted to return to his native place. “I have seen the devastating Kosi floods and I wanted to return home and study why we failed in controlling floods,” Verma said, adding he has prepared many papers in this context.
 
 Verma had graduated in mechanical engineering from Patna University in 1965 and did his masters in mechanical engineering from   in 1969. From 1973 to 1986, he held various assignments at Defence Research Development Organisation and Gas Turbine Research Establishment-Bangalore. In June 2002, he took over as light combat aircraft programme director. Verma is one of the founding members of the team which developed light combat aircraft and he was director of ADA at the time when foundation of iconic aircraft Tejas was laid.
 
 
