PUNE: The Pune rural police on Wednesday arrested Samasta Hindu Aghadi leader   from his residence at Shivajinagar barely an hour after the Supreme Court (SC) dismissed his petition for anticipatory bail in connection with the January 1 violence at Koregaon Bhima on the Pune-Ahmednagar road. 

 Police said   will be produced before a special court here on Thursday for securing his custodial remand. 
 
 Inspector Dayanand Gawade and his team from the rural police’s local crime branch (LCB) went to arrest Ekbote around 11.45am at his house in Revenue colony, near the IMD office. The right-wing Hindutva leader was engaged in a pooja ritual. The police waited for him to complete the ritual before taking him into custody around 1pm. He was later taken to the LCB office at Pashan.
 
 Soon after, Ekbote was subjected to some intense questioning by a team of police officials linked with the probe in the Koregaon Bhima violence. “Most questions were related to the rioting there,” a police official told TOI.
 
 Ekbote, who has consistently denied any involvement in the violence, is a regular visitor to Vadhu village, which is located close to Koregaon Bhima and houses the memorial of Maratha king  . The police questioning is focused on ascertaining his role, including that of allegedly inciting local villagers to commit violence against the Dalits who had gathered at the Koregaon Bhima victory memorial on January 1.
 
 Following the violence, FIRs were registered against Ekbote and   alias  , among others, for inciting a mob to commit violence. These FIRs were later transferrerd to the Shikrapur police station under the Pune rural police. 
 
 Ekbote is facing charges of attempt to murder, unlawful assembly, rioting armed with deadly weapons, mischief and deliberate act to incite religious feelings, besides offences under the Arms Act and the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
 
 A special court in Pune had rejected Ekbote’s interim and anticipatory bail application on January 22, citing a bar on the grant of such reliefs under section 18 of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and other reasons relating to his involvement in the case. He then moved an appeal in the Bombay high court, which dismissed it on February 2.
 
 On February 7, the SC granted Ekbote interim protection till February 20 on the condition that he will cooperate with the investigators. At the next hearing, the apex court extended the protection till March 14 and directed the state to submit a status report on the progress of the investigations. Later, Ekbote presented himself before the investigating authorities on three occasions for questioning.
 
 The Pune rural police had filed a status report with the SC on March 13, stating that Ekbote should not be granted anticipatory bail relief as he had not cooperated with the investigators and was not forthcoming in his replies to several pertinent questions, including some about his mobile phone and the people who had accompanied him.
 
 
