PUNE: Residents of   have raised serious concern over non-lifting of garbage on a daily basis and rampant burning of waste in the open.

  pointed out that the Pune Municipal Corporation’s existing infrastructure to deal with the garbage in the area was not enough and that civic authorities should enhance the infrastructure for management of garbage.
 
  
 They suggested some urgent measures like deploying more staff for collecting garbage and additional vehicles to clear waste during night hours. They insisted that waste should not be left unattended on the streets or outside commercial establishments and food joints for long hours.
 
 Kharadi is among the fastest growing areas in the city. It has been witnessing significant development of residential and commercial activities in the recent past which has also led to generation of more garbage. 
 
 Housing societies in the area said though the   has initiated some measures, a lot more needs to be done before the crisis deepens. In the last few months, local residents have been trying to streamline the lifting of garbage in the area. 
 
 Recently they launched an online petition under the #cleankharadi banner to find a solution to the problem. Residents claimed the petition has gained support from many people within a few days to its launching. They plan to approach the municipal commissioner with a memorandum along with the suggestions received on the link.
 
 Anu Dubey, a local resident, said the situation was going from bad to worse with rampant garbage dumping and burning in several areas. The issue needs immediate attention. “The online petition has received very good response from residents who are now joining hands for the cause,” Dubey added.
 
 Another resident, Mehzabin Saiyed, said, “We need better infrastructure, more vehicles, frequent pick ups and a proper solution to manage waste from eateries and commercial shops, including furniture shops which are in large number in Kharadi and generate a lot of waste.”
 
 Amey Kale, who often travels across Kharadi, said the entire area needs more attention in terms of management of garbage as a lot of new development was expected here. 
 
 
