NEW DELHI: With   government fixing timelines for completion of various projects in its budget for 2018-19,   Arvind   is learnt to have cut out major tasks for chief secretary  . 

 In a letter to the CS on Monday, sources said, the   asked him to personally monitor the progress of certain projects, such as installation of CCTV cameras across the city, the scheme to provide health cards for all, infrastructural development in unauthorised colonies and rural valleys, setting up of polyclinics, and landscaping and beautification of 500km roads above 100ft to fight pollution.
 
 Kejriwal directed Prakash to submit progress and status reports on the projects at the beginning of every cabinet meeting, usually held on a weekly basis. The CS also has been asked to indicate in the reports whether each timeline is progressing on schedule, or not.
 
 The AAP government has claimed that it is the first dispensation in the country to fix timelines for various projects. Meeting some of these deadlines could prove to be tricky even as the government has maintained that it is “not getting the cooperation of LG” on various projects. Kejriwal had recently said that the government was happy to face the test of the unique accountability exercise, which would expose it to further scrutiny.
 
 In the letter, Kejriwal directed the CS to submit at the beginning of each cabinet meeting the timelines that had been missed and clearly mention what steps were being taken to ensure compliance.
 
 The CS has also been asked to present before the cabinet the status of each Bill passed by the Delhi assembly but pending with the Centre. At a recent meeting, the CS had informed the cabinet that secretaries of respective departments were following up on these Bills with the Centre. The CS has been asked to mention the efforts made in this regard last week in the reports he submits to the cabinet.
 
 Prakash will also be required to submit before the cabinet reports on functioning of major equipment and operation theatres in Delhi government hospitals. In his report, he will have to mention timelines by when the non-functional equipment will become operational.
 
 The CS will have to submit reports on field visits of heads of different departments as well. 
 
 
