LUDHIANA: Given the continuing protests against the release of Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s controversial film   in different parts of the country, the audience, too, in Ludhiana, were apprehensive about the screening of the film. But   stepped out of their homes and watched the first show of the Deepika Padukone-starrer on Thursday at city multiplexes amid tight security. In fact, the city theatre owners are elated with the response on day 1 of the release. According to theatre owners and multiplex authorities, there was nearly 85% occupancy on Thursday. 

 As TOI had already reported, the paid preview of the film was held on Wednesday amid high security with senior police officials supervising the entire episode. On Thursday, too, the police and the theatre authorities took all the necessary steps to prevent any untoward incident. Police were deployed outside every theatre to ensure the safety of the audience and smooth screening of the film.
 
 The ticket prices for the paid premiere shows on Wednesday ranged from Rs 190 to Rs 450. Seven city theatres and multiplexes screened Padmaavat’s premiere show. On Tuesday, different outfits protesting against the release of the film on Tuesday announced their support for Karni Sena and said they won’t let the film released in Ludhiana.
 
 “We had a decent crowd. Despite so many threats and controversies, people did come to theatres. There were more youngsters in the crowd. We have taken all kind of precautionary measures before the screening the movie. Cops are deployed outside the theatres. The movie is running smoothly till now,” said Bunty, owner of Orient Cinemas.
 
 Even the advance booking of Padmaavat in Ludhiana was decent despite protests and controversies. “We didn’t expect so many people to come and watch the film on day one,” said Vikas, duty manager of PVR Cinemas.
 
 Police officials also said they have beefed up security and made all necessary arrangements to ensure law and order is maintained in the city. “As of now, no untoward incident has been reported. We have taken all precautionary measures. Cops will be on duty outside theatres at least for the next few days,” said Dharam Paul, assistant commissioner police.
 
 The multiplex authorities said there is fear among the cinegoers to come out and watch the film in theatres. However, the authorities believe that the situation will improve and there will be nearly 95% occupancy over the weekend.
 
 PHOTO QUOTES:
 
 First day, first show
 
 I really don’t think that it’s right to glamorise ‘jauhar’, which I felt the film did. I do not support the ban on the freedom of expression of any person’s creativity. Having said that, I feel a practice that paved a way for the death of thousands of women over the years, must not be celebrated – Gurleen Kaur
 
 It’s heart wrenching to see my country is more concerned about a movie than many other critical issues. I always thought that my generation will change but it’s really disappointing – Aadvitya Gupta
 
 Padmaavat is an elegant, and flawless movie. I am totally against the ban of this movie. There is nothing which tarnishes the reputation of the Rajputs --- Pranshu Bansal.
 
 Despite clarifications being issued by censor board and film experts, an artificial panic has been created in the society. Now, watching a film is a personal choice. – Jashan Chawla
 
 
