RAJKOT: The wait for   proposed at the   (MSW) dumping site in Rajkot seems to be getting longer by the day. Though the   (RMC) has finalized Abellon Clean Energy Ltd for processing the nearly 10 lakh tonne garbage dumped over last five years, the committee that will monitor progress of the project lacks technical experts. 

 The seven-member committee comprises of five elected representatives and two RMC officials, of which one has been transferred. However, the RMC has assured that they will take help of technical experts to monitor the project.
 
 The RMC committee includes Pushkar Patel, chairman of the RMC standing committee; Kashpay Shukla, former chairman of the standing committee; Kamlesh Mirani, Rajkot city BJP president; Aashish Vagadia, chairman of the RMC sanitation committee; Arun Maheshbabu, deputy municipal commissioner and Ambesh Dave, deputy executive engineer. However, of the above, Maheshbabu has been transferred out of Rajkot.
 
 Nakrawadi dumping site is 7km from Rajkot city and nearly 600 tonne solid waste is dumped there each day. There are 10,000 people residing in six villages near the dumping site. The solid waste dump which appears like a small mountain is prone to fire during summer. 
 
 RMC commissioner Banccha Nidhi Pani said, “We will definitely take help of technical experts to examine work of the company rather than taking decision based on the report of the seven-member committee.” 
 
 “We also need to get some necessary clearance before handing over work to the company and sign the power purchase agreement (PPA) with UGVCL. Only then will the project become operational,” he added. 
 
 Now, after finalizing Abellon Clean Energy Ltd for processing the MSW at Nakrawadi, RMC has claimed that the project will generate 4MW electricity per day. 
 
 Earlier, in 2014, RMC had given the contract for the waste-to-energy project to Strot Energy Private Ltd. But the company did not process the wastage and was blacklisted in 2016. Before that, in 2013, Hanjar   was also blacklisted after the   (NGT) order that found that the company was mishandling the solid waste.
 
 Activist Shailendrasinh Jadeja, who is fighting against the rising pollution levels at the dumping site since years, said, “How can we expect politicians to give a technical opinion? There is no provision that if this company fails the members of the committee will be held responsible. Why is there no accountability of the RMC committee?” 
 
 “The garbage has not been processed since past 10 years. The resulting polluted air and water can’t be measured in terms of money,” he said, adding, “RMC officials mix wet and solid waste and do capping at the landfill site. They bury the waste under the clay, but if ordinary citizens mix wet and solid waste they have to pay fine.” 
 
 
