VARANASI: In his bid to consolidate   (OBCs) being divided by castebased lesser known  ,   president and   asked the   at Centre to link each citizen with Aadhaar and find out caste wise data of population to give their rights and quota as per the provisions prescribed in the constitution.

 Akhilesh also mocked Prime Minister Narendra Modi by saying, “I will pay Rs 30 lakhs in bank accounts of each citizen on coming to power if Modi fulfills his promise to deposit Rs 15 lakh in every account. One (Modi) should keep it in mind that changing colours of currency note is not the solution against black money.”
 
 He was addressing the Samrat Prithviraj Chauhan Swabhiman rally of Chauhan dominated Janvadi Party (Socialist) in Nadesar area on Sunday. Akhilesh said, “They (BJP) caused hatred and difference between OBC castes by propagating that maximum benefit of OBC quota had been grabbed by Yadavs and Patels. Now we demand to link all of us with Aadhaar and utilize their digital India programme to give caste wise data of population and give the quota benefit on the basis of same.”
 
 Making it clear that he did not want disharmony with anyone or any caste, Akhilesh recalled the history of emperor Prithviraj Chauhan. “Elections, whether parliamentary or Assembly, are very far. I have come here just to embrace you (Chauhans) and to ask whether Samajwadis committed anything wrong to them. We want to see the formation of a government in which issues of each and every section of society is addressed. To achieve this goal I have come to join hands with you.”
 
 Targeting Modi, he said that everyone has become aware now that who can make best promises but can’t fulfill it. “There is no sign of depositiion of Rs 15 lakh in countrymen’s bank accounts as PM Modi promised in 2014. Now, I also promise you that if his promise is fulfilled, I will deposit Rs 30 lakh in everybody’s account on coming to power,” said Akhilesh claiming that none of measures like demonetization could end the problem of black money. This government believes that changing currency will solve the problem of black money, he said.
 
 Janvadi Party (socialist) president Sanjay Singh Chauhan questioned the people of his caste to think seriously what they got against supporting BJP in 2014 Lok Sabha and 2017 UP polls.
 
