GURUGRAM: A 22-year-old female nurse of a private hospital in Pataudi was stabbed to death by three brothers around 7pm on Monday, as she was returning home in Faridpur village. 

 By Tuesday afternoon, police had arrested one of the accused — Charan Singh (25) alias   — who reportedly surrendered at Farrukhnagar police station. The victim, Surekha, is suspected to have spurned his romantic advances. 
 
 Her father, though, alleged that the three brothers had conspired to kill her following an old enmity. 
 
 Sources said Titu — also a Faridpur resident — accosted Surekha as she reached the house of Govind. He stabbed her six times on her neck, shoulders and arms. As Surekha collapsed, crying for help, neighbours gathered. Two of Titu’s brothers —   alias Devi (23) and Surender alias   (20) — who were present at the scene, rushed her to Civil Hospital in their SUV, where doctors declared her as brought dead.
 
 In his complaint, the victim’s father   said he came to know that his daughter had been stabbed by one of the villagers, but by the time he had reached the spot, onlookers told him she had already been taken to hospital. “Villagers who accompanied the brothers said they stopped their SUV midway, saying they had run out of fuel. Finally, the villagers had to take my daughter to hospital in an auto. 
 
 “The delay turned fatal because she had lost a lot of blood by then. I have been told that the two brothers pinned down my daughter as Titu stabbed her,” he told police.
 
 Police suspect Titu — a cab driver — to be a spurned lover, from call records that show he had repeatedly called her to propose, and had been turned down. 
 
 An FIR, based on Mukesh’s complaint, was registered against all three brothers, under sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intention) of IPC and sections 25-54-59 of Arms Act on Monday night. 
 
 By Tuesday afternoon, the main accused had surrendered, though his brothers are still at large. “We have arrested one of the accused and are questioning him. The likely cause of murder appears to be Surekha turning down Titu’s advances, but we can say that with certainty only after the probe is completed. The other accused will also be arrested soon,” said Ashok Bakshi, DCP (south).
 
 In the aftermath of the murder, villagers spoke of an atmosphere of fear in the village. “This is a first for our village. We’re terrified, but we hope justice prevails,” said sarpanch Satya Prakash.
 
