Harris (60) suffered from   radiating to his left thigh. For over a month, doctor treated him for backache with   and  . When the pain did not subside, he was diagnosed with a kidney problem. 

 Awanti (48) complained of pain in her right shoulder. After several failed attempts to treat her, she was finally diagnosed with a gall bladder disease. 
 
 PUNE: Pain may have become the part and parcel of life. But don’t embrace or learn to live with it as the recurring or persistent pain in one part of the body may just be a hint of a bigger problem elsewhere.
 
  
 “Often, the site of pain and its root cause could be distinct entities. Approximately 50% of patients with acute pancreatitis (gallstones) experience radiating pain in the back. It needs a discerning doctor to pin down the right diagnosis to lend timely relief,” orthopaedic surgeon Parag Sancheti told TOI.
 
 Medically this is known as ‘referred pain’, which means an ache felt in a part of the body other than its actual source. The body physiology and its functions are so intricately woven into each other that a lesion in one part of the body can manifest (in the form of pain) elsewhere, often delaying the diagnosis.
 
 “Radiating pain follows specific nerves, while referred pain is more general and can occur in many places around an injured tissue. Many patients come in with pain in a different area than where the actual cause is located,” Sancheti, who is also the president of the Indian Association of Sports Medicine, added.
 
 Referred pain tends not to cross sides of the body. “If the pain signals are originating in the liver or gallbladder (which are on the right side of the body), you may feel pain in your right shoulder. If the signals originate in the pancreas (on the left of the body), you may feel pain in your left shoulder,” spine surgeon Ketan Khurjekar said.
 
 “It is a well-known fact that when acid from the stomach moves into the food pipe (called acid reflux), a patient with asthma will face severe breathing difficulties (bronchospasm). Here, treating the asthma may result in opening up the airway (bronchodilation), but eradicating the acid reflux would be curative to the resultant,” shoulder surgeon Ashish Babhulkar explained.
 
 And this is where the treating doctor comes into play. S/he should be able to identify the root cause of the problem and treat it accordingly, instead of trying to provide symptomatic relief, experts said.
 
 
