CHENNAI: The Toulouse-France headquartered aircraft-maker   is in the preliminary stages of setting up an India manufacturing facility and towards which it is considering Chennai as an option. 

 The Tamil Nadu government sees aerospace as the next growth driver and has announced the setting up of an aerospace park at   in Sriperumbudur near Chennai. The park is jointly implemented by   and state government's industrial promotion arm TIDCO.
 
 "We have received early interest from a French aircraft company to set up a manufacturing facility in our state. They are proposing to invest Rs 2,500 crore in the project. I have directed them to the  ," said  , TN industries minister, at a CII meeting.
 
 Later, he confirmed to TOI that Airbus was planning that investment. He did not reveal details on what the project proposes to make and when. Airbus was also tight-lipped about the plan. "We do not comment on discussions that may or may not be going on with different stakeholders," an Airbus spokesperson replied to a TOI questionnaire.
 
 The minister also said that the government would consider "deemed clearance" for a project proposal applied under the Business Facilitation Act. The Act envisages a clearance for new investment proposals within 30 days of submission. If the applicant does not receive any communication from the government, CII sought deemed clearance for the project. "We are considering that," the minister said.
 
 He also said that he would take up personal responsibility to bring in fresh investments into the state. "I give you a promise that I shall be available to anyone making an investment proposal in the state," he said, adding that the government targeted to attract more investments in the second edition of Global Investors' Summit planned for January 2019. "We want to get more than what we got in the first edition," he said. The first edition saw agreements reached for investments worth Rs 2.42 lakh crore, however only a fourth of that has converted into projects on ground.
 
 
