GURUGRAM: A 21-year-old resident of Hajipur village was killed when a speeding vehicle hit her on   early on Saturday morning. 

 
 Traffic on the stretch came to a standstill for around four hours when villagers from Hajipur and its nearby villages blocked the road with the woman’s body. 
 
 The road was cleared only after speed-breakers were built on both sides of the road and police assured the protesters that the accused would be arrested soon.
 
 According to police, the victim, Sunita had gone out to dispose garbage on the other side of the road around 6.30am on Saturday. When she was crossing the road, she was hit from behind by and died on the spot. The driver of the vehicle, who has not been identified yet, managed to escape.
 
 Her family was preparing for her wedding and Sunita was to be engaged on Sunday. The grief-stricken family, along with villagers, kept her body on the road and blocked it. They said despite repeated reminders and pleas to the authorities, speed-breakers had not been built on the stretch. They also alleged that several lives had been lost to accidents on the stretch before.
 
 A police team reached the spot and tried to placate them, but to no avail. Around 9.30am, Birem Singh Poswal, ACP (Sohna), arrived and assured them that police would find the driver soon. But the woman’s family and villagers only called off the protest after officials from the PWD arrived and built the speed-breakers around 10.30am. They also handed over the body to police for an autopsy. 
 
 “We were preparing for her marriage and her engagement was to be on Sunday, but the negligence of a driver ended her life. I want strict action against the accused,” said Ramesh Kumar, Sunita’s father.
 
 On the basis of Kumar’s complaint, an FIR has been registered against the vehicle’s driver under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC at Sohna Sadar police station. “The   took place when there was nobody around, and the vehicle was speeding. Speed-breakers have now been built there on the villagers’ demand. We have registered a case and are trying to identify the vehicle,” Poswal said.
 
 
