PUNE: Looking for ways to shore up civic finances when Pune Municipal Corporaiton’s income sources are dwindling, municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar proposed a 15% increase in property tax in the Rs 5,397 crore draft budget for 2018-19 which he presented on Monday. 

 The proposal has to be approved by the standing committee and the general body, before it is implemented.   will also have to pay 15% additional water tax from the next fiscal which has already been ratified by the general body. 
 
 Property tax collection is based on the annual rateable value (ARV) which, once fixed, does not change. New constructions coming up in the fringes attract more property tax but lack basic amenities like water and street lights. Old constructions in the city with a lesser   pay less property tax but get adequate water supply and most civic amenities. 
 
  
 The draft budget for 2018-19 was Rs 200 crore less than last year’s Rs 5,600 crore budget, the highest ever. The civic administration had proposed a 12% hike in property tax last year too which was rejected. 
 
 Civic officials cited shrinking sources of income and increasing expenses for a trimmed budget this fiscal. Kumar called the draft budget a “realistic one”, based on the estimated performance of income sources. 
 
 “An estimated slump in income from development charges due to a slowdown in the realty sector, a drop in government aid and no fresh loan application have reflected in the reduction in the draft budget for 2018-19,” they said.
 
 The civic administration expects to rake in Rs 135 crore in the next fiscal with this revised property tax structure. Water tax will bring Rs 20 crore. 
 
 The proposed property tax hike of 15% includes a 4% hike in general tax, 4.5% in cleaning tax, 0.5% in fire service charges, 1.25% in water benefit tax, 2.25% in education tax and 2.5% in water treatment benefit tax. 
 
 Activists have opposed the plan to increase property tax. They said such hikes would not help the civic coffers in the long run as many big property owners and business establishments delay tax payments. 
 
 “ The administration is yet to recover outstanding property tax dues of Rs 1,000 crore,” activist Vivek Velankar of   told TOI. He said instead of imposing a fresh hike on taxpayers, the civic body should make concerted efforts to recover the outstanding dues. 
 
 His point is not off the mark considering that the draft budget tabled by Kumar on Monday places the property tax collection for the current fiscal at Rs607.4 crore by December-end. It is not even 50% of the annual target of Rs1,433 crore. Civic officials said there will not be huge outstanding tax dues as is being perceived. 
 
 “There are two more months for the fiscal to end. Normally, tax collection picks up in the last quarter. Efforts are underway to push up the kitty,” a civic official said. The civic body hopes to gather at least 80% of overdue tax by March 31, 2018. 
 
 Of the 8.34 lakh properties in the city, the PMC has completed the GIS mapping of about 50% properties and this would help in the tax collection from evaders, the officer said. 
 
 Satish Khot of   said there was no need to impose a property tax hike on citizens and the civic body can set aside funds for development projects if it curtails expenses on non-mandatory work. “ The PMC must use public money judicially. It spends funds on needless programmes and events. All these unnecessary expenses should be curbed. Administrative expenses can also be curtailed,” Khot told TOI. 
 
 Another expert, on the condition of anonymity, said the civic administration must explore more sources for revenue generation. “ For years, property tax, water tax, development charges and octroi, which was replaced by LBT and now GST, have remained income sources. Other avenues must be explored,” he said. 
 
 The imbalance in property tax collection should be removed for better tax revenue, instead of a flat increase in property tax rates, another expert said.
 
 
