CHENNAI: While most private doctors are asking people to cancel holidays or postpone meetings in and around Kozhikode district of Kerala, where at least 10 people have died after an outbreak of   virus, the Tamil Nadu health department has only advised people to be take precautions. The directorate of public health has not recommended travel restrictions, but has asked people not to eat raw fruits without washing or peeling and told them to avoid contact with infected people.

  
  
 
 The director of public health Dr K Kolandaswamy said the department has also asked physicians, doctors’ bodies and hospitals to update fever cases periodically and report if they see symptoms such as fever, headache, disorientation, respiratory distress, confusion leading to rapid deterioration including coma. "It is a common practice for people to pick fruits that are bitten by squirrels as they believe it will be sweeter. We are telling them not to do so because it could have been eaten by an infected fruit bat. Infected patients develop inflammation of the brain and treatment is limited to supportive care," he said.
 
 Although there is no immediate threat of fruit bats spreading the viral infection (they have a limited flying range), the state government is taking adequate precaution. On Tuesday, chief secretary   will hold a video conference with collectors, senior officials from health, animal husbandry and forest department. "There is no panic situation as of now. But we are taking adequate precaution to ensure early diagnosis and treatment," he said.
 
 The state in the coming inter-state health officials meeting will discuss how the spread of the virus can be arrested. "Officials in Kerala have told us that standard infection control practices and proper barrier nursing techniques are undertaken preventing hospital-acquired infections. This should take care of the spread from one person to another," he said. To prevent zoonotic infections, the department is also speaking to department of veterinary sciences and vet hospitals particularly in areas bordering Kerala, so it does not spread among animals.
 
 Infectious disease expert Dr V Ramasubramanian says Nipah virus infection is an emerging disease, which is not common in the region. It was first discovered in Malaysia and Singapore in 1998 and fruit bats were found to be the hosts of the virus. It was later diagnosed in  , dogs, cats, goats, horses, and sheep before humans. "There have been cases of man-to-man transmission of the disease in West Bengal and typically, in patients with encephalitic syndrome marked by fever, drowsiness and disorientation. "Avoid travel to infected area and don’t eat raw fruits without washing them," he said.
 
 
  
  
 
