AHMEDABAD: Nil Desai, 44, from a  , has made 26 attempts to   but failed every time. Yet Desai is a   now. He got his PhD in the subject with his research on ‘Effective green inhibitors for mild steel corrosion in various acids’ from the Uka Tarsadiya University in Bardoli last week. 

 Desai’s inspiring success story began 12 years ago when the state education authorities in 2005 changed rules and cleared the way for diploma holders to go for degrees without clearing the board exams!
 
 Desai first took the Class 12 science test in 1991. His reluctance to dissect frogs and short-time illness made him falter in the practical exams in biology. He insisted on clearing all the subjects again in the next attempt but did not succeed till 2005. By then, he had failed in the board exams 26 times. In the meantime, he had obtained a diploma in engineering on the basis of his class 10 results.
 
 The change in rules in 2005 qualified him for admission in degree course and he opted for BSc in chemistry. He went on to get a masters in the subject and enrolled in a PhD programme. During all these years of studies, Desai kept himself busy with a business and teaching. He teaches at colleges in Surat and Bilimora and also at private institutes which prepare students for competitive exams. 
 
 “Since I have interest in different subjects apart from chemistry, I teach them to students. But I have never taught class 12 students. This is because I have failed to clear that exam,” Desai told TOI.Desai’s real ‘struggle’ began when he stopped his attempts to pass the Board exams and got admission in BSc. Bollywood film ‘Munnabhai MBBS’ seem to have come to life. “When I entered my classroom for the first time, all students present got up and greeted me as if I was their lecturer. It was also difficult because many of the lecturers in the college were my classmates and students too. I could not enjoy my college days and had to remain quite disciplined,” he said. Desai passed college exams with flying colours but his failure in class 12 exam is something that he cannot forget. He now aims to attain what has been unachievable for him — to pass class 12 exams. “I want to clear class 12 exams before I die,” he said.
 
 
