Trichy: Pragyan 2018, the annual techno-managerial fest of the National Institute of Technology - Trichy (NIT-T) will be held from March 1 to 4. To be flagged off with the theme ‘The Next Dimension’, this year’s edition will have 39 events spread over nine clusters. It has something to offer for everyone, with the cluster ‘Core Engineering’ for hardcore engineers, ‘Code It’ for programming nerds, ‘Grey Cells, for those who are just looking fun puzzles and many more, a statement from NIT-T said.  Guest lectures by eminent personalities in the field of technology will also be part of the Pragyan like every year. This edition will witness guest lectures by co-inventor of Ethernet Dr Robert Metcalfe, co-founder of USB Dr Ajay Bhatt and Dr Kevin Grazier known for his work on the Cassini/Huygens Mission.  This year, Pragyan has associated with Human Library, Hyderabad to organise what will be one of the biggest human libraries ever. With an assortment of 15 books that can be borrowed, the human library presents an unique opportunity for the attendees of Pragyan 2018 to sit down and have a meaningful conversation with people who have challenged the stigmas of society through their lifestyle choices, beliefs and accomplishments.  Earlier, addressing the media on Friday, director of NIT-T Mini Shaji Thomas said, “This year’s Pragyan will be initiated with an inauguration ceremony presided over by Dr B N Suresh, former director of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, a lead centre of the Indian space research organisation (Isro) that deals with the development of launch vehicles for space-related applications.”  Stating that Pragyan works towards engaging the youth populace to inculcate scientific temper and develop further innovation and creativity in science and technology, she said that “NIT has plans to incubate the selected projects presented in the event.”  Citing the lack of awareness among students in villages about the joint entrance exams (JEE), the NIT-T director said, “IITs and NITs admit students from JEE. But many of the intelligent kids in villages are not aware of JEE and how to apply for that. Dhisai is Pragyan’s flagship social responsibility initiative that aims to create awareness about the joint entrance examinations to enter premier institutes such as IITs and NITs in India.” 