MUMBAI: Not willing to accept shoddy road repair work by a BMC-appointed contractor before the arrival of monsoon, Bandra residents and their corporator forced the civic body to redo the entire stretch all over again, in perhaps the first such citizen intiative in the city.

 
 This year, the   undertook improvement of St Andrew’s Road in Bandra (West) on a Priority III basis. The work involved replacing paver blocks on the road with asphalt. The BMC takes up road works on Priority I, II and III basis, depending on the urgency for repairs. (See box).
 
  
  
 
 After the work was taken up in April, locals raised a stink over the delay and the shoddy manner in which it was being carried out.
 
  
  
 “Even though the work started in April, the contractor managed to repair only half of the road by May and that too in an unprofessional manner. The paver blocks on the road were removed but resurfacing was done with poor quality wet mix and asphalt. Even when the repair work was in progress, we found that neither was proper barricading done nor site supervision. With such poor quality of work, the road’s condition was only expected to deteriorate further during the upcoming monsoon,” said local   corporator  .
 
 On May 21, St Andrew’s Residents Association wrote to the civic commissioner expressing their disappointment over the road repair.   of the association said following the complaint, the BMC instructed the contractor to redo the stretch.
 
 “But this kind of work raises doubts over the contractor’s expertise in relaying roads. How do contractors who lack technical competence or try to cut corners get such jobs? One has to be after them all the time to ensure the work is done well.”
 
 On Wednesday, Zakeria raised the issue at the civic standing committee meeting as well. The very next day, on Thursday, the BMC started the repair work.
 
 When contacted,  , assistant civic commissioner, H-West Ward, said the contractor was directed to repair three roads in Bandra, Khar and Santacruz. “There are certain defects that need to be rectified,” said Ughade.
 
  
 
