KOLKATA: BJP’s reverses in the UP Lok Sabha bypolls, particularly in CM Yogi Adityanath and his deputy’s home turfs, have come as a shot in the arm for   Mamata Banerjee, who has already emerged as a credible mascot of the anti-BJP forum at the national level.

 “Great victory. Congratulations to Mayawati Ji and Akhilesh Yadav Ji for Uttar Pradesh bypolls. The beginning of the end has started. Congratulations to Lalu Prasad Ji for winning Araria and Jehanabad. This is a great victory,” Banerjee tweeted, while BJP candidates were trailing in Gorakhpur and Phulpur constituencies in UP and the solitary Araria Lok Sabha seat in Bihar. 
 
 According to   sources, Banerjee had been instrumental in the SP and BSP alliance that devoured BJP in the Hindi heartland.
 
 Her position became even stronger in the anti-BJP fold after Congress was decimated in both these states. Going by the trend, Congress president Rahul Gandhi has to give significant space to other secular parties such as Trinamool and remain a partner in the battle against BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. 
 
 However, unlike   K Chandrasekhar Rao, Banerjee hasn’t erased Congress from her proposed federal front to remove BJP from power. Instead, she has scaled up the independent activity of her party both within and outside Parliament, and is keeping in touch with leaders of other parties independently to slowly improve her importance in the anti-BJP formation. 
 
 The CM began this exercise right from the day PM Narendra Modi announced demonetisation and continued with her solo protest until Congress and other parties broke their silence in Parliament. Banerjee had then proposed to Congress to hold joint demonstrations across the country along with other secular parties but that didn’t materialise. The chief minister continued with her opposition until others followed her example after the RBI report on demonetisation vindicated her stand. 
 
 Since then, Banerjee has been in touch with all senior leaders in the country, from Sharad Pawar to Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati, and from Lalu Prasad to Farooq Abdullah. She sent birthday wishes to DMK leader M K Stalin a few days ago, as well as to CPM leader and former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee. She is also sending TMCs Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien to the wedding of TDP parliamentary leader Y S Chowdary’s daughter, despite TDP being an NDA ally.
 
 The decisions indicate Banerjee is trying to carve out a formation against BJP independent of Congress. She has made it clear to her party MPs that Trinamool won’t play second fiddle to Congress under Rahul, who has to prove his worth in the upcoming polls in four or five states before leading the anti-BJP front.
 
