BHOPAL (MP): An elderly Malayali couple were found dead with their throats slit at their residence at   in Bhopal’s Awadhpur locality on Friday.

 The deceased have been identified as G K Nair, 74, hailing from   and his wife Gomati Nair, 62.
 
 Nair retired from the   as a   in the civil security section in 2004 while Gomati retired as a nurse at district hospital at Murar in Gwalior. They had been living at Narmada Valley Colony in Bhopal since 2014.
 
 The incident came to light when their maid, Mohana Bai, informed the neighbours that the couple were not opening the door despite ringing the door bell and calling on their mobile phones.
 
  
 
 A neighbour, P V Ramadevan, entered the couple’s residence through the balcony of the adjacent house and found them dead.
 
 “I tried to open the balcony door, but was a bit jammed. I banged on it twice and it opened. When I entered the house, I found the couple lying in a pool of blood besides a bed in the corridor. Their throats were slit. The blood on the floor had clotted, which suggested that they had been murdered much earlier,” Ramadeven, who retired from the Army Medical Corps, said.
 
 The couple’s immediate neighbour, Ratna Mistri, recalled hearing Gomati talking loud the previous night.
 
 “I heard Gomati speaking to someone in Malayalam and woke up. I called on the couple’s mobile number. As they did not attend the call, I thought they might be watching TV and went back to sleep,” she said.
 
 Nair’s youngest daughter Priyanka said she had talked to her father around 10.30pm the previous night.
 
 “He asked me to book a train ticket online to Gwalior, where my aunt has been bedridden. As I handle his debit card, he used to call me to withdraw cash from his account,” she said.
 
 Priyanka said she suspects Raju, the husband of the couple’s former maid Aarti, might have committed the crime. The man had a financial dispute with her parents, she said.
 
 Police said there were no signs of forced entry into the house. “It seems someone was allowed into the house. The maid had prepared 10 chappatis for dinner. Nair used to eat two, while Gomati routinely ate three. Two chappatis were found in the casserole. It means three chappatis were consumed by someone else,” assistant superintendent of police Vikash Kumar Shahwal.
 
 Ruling out theft as the motive, the officer said “prima facie” an old rivalry could have led to the crime.
 
 DIG Dharmendra Choudhary said a reward of Rs 20,000 has been announced to those helping to identify the suspect. A special team, led by SP Lodha Rahul Kumar, is investigating the case.
 
