Like all creatively-inclined folks, Deepika, too pursued her interest by participating in dramas and dance competitions in school and college. Modelling happened, too. “But it was my mother who was more keen on seeing me on the silver screen than anyone else,” shares  , the leading lady of  , which has recently completed 500 episodes. The daily soap, in keeping with the snake woman sagas of the current day, has picked up much popularity, making Deepika confident enough to say that it will notch another 500 episodes. 
 Thrilled to bits, because this is also her first-ever outing on the silver screen as a leading lady, Deepika recalls how she was spotted at a modelling assignment which paved the way for her to serials. “Krishna Rukmini was my debut. Although I played the hero’s sister in it and I was in the serial for about 200 episodes, people liked my character so much. In fact, even though the serial wrapped up four years ago, viewers still remember me from  ,” she tells us. 
 Naagini has come four years after her first break. Why this long gap? “I got picky after that. Besides, movies came calling. Initially I was a bit nervous about facing the arc lights, but I got used to it slowly. Movies gave me the chance to fulfill my mother’s dream. I’ve done about eight films until now including Doodh Sagar and Dreamgirlz. Films are a whole diffferent ball game; to slip into different roles each time is exciting, to say the least,” points out Deepika. 
 Then how did she return to daily soaps once more? “I wasn’t keen to do so. It was my manager who insisted that I give this role a try. When I heard that the role was that of a snake woman, I couldn’t stop myself from accepting it. But let me make a confession: my condition to accept the role was that they’d not bring live snakes to the shoot. I’m petrified of snakes,” she concurs. 
 So what next? “Naagini, I’m sure, will go on to touch even more popularity. I can figure out where we stand when I interact with people. And all through the interest only continues to soar. Movies will happen on the side, so I’m happy enjoying the best of both worlds,” signs off Deepika. 
 
