BHOPAL: Meet 14-year-old Ayush Kishore, whose kind gesture is all set to free as many as four prisoners on the eve of Republic Day. The Bhopal boy has donated his scholarship money for the early release of murder convicts who have maintained good conduct and were permitted to be released on humanitarian grounds. Ayush is a student of Class 9 at   (DPS), Neelbad.

 On January 26, as many as 15 prisoners serving life sentences in Bhopal Central Jail, will walk free after serving more than 14 years in prison.
 
 Among the 15 inmates, the money required for the release of four of them has been graciously borne by Ayush from the money that he received on several occasions as rewards for his performances. All the four inmates were booked under Section 302, which amounts to murder.
 
 “Although there are many NGO’s who extend financial help to inmates, it is for the first time that a student of such a tender age has offered help. This will inspire others to come forward and help poor inmates having no family support,” said Priyadarshan Shrivastava, the deputy superintendent of the Bhopal Central Jail.
 
 Shrivastava informed that the 15 murder convicts whom the state government has selected for remission belong to different districts of  .
 
 The practice of remission for prisoners serving more than 14 years in jail had a blanket stay by the Supreme Court in 2014, after the   government approved the release of prisoners involved in the assassination of former prime minister  .
 
 However, the Supreme Court in 2015 allowed state governments to use their discretion to grant liberty to life convicts.
 
 Ayush, while speaking to TOI said that he always wanted to help people in need. “First, I had decided to assist children who sell newspapers at traffic signals. But, I couldn’t find a proper channel to help them,” he said.
 
 Ayush said besides his mother’s support, he took inspiration to help jail inmates after watching the tragic news of the constable who was killed in the SIMI jailbreak in 2016.
 
 “I have seen my mother helping others and it encourages me a lot. My mother takes me to hospitals and helps those who are in need. She is the real hero for me,” Ayush said.
 
 ‘Ayush saved cash prize to help out prisoners’
 
 Ayush was conferred with the national children award by the then President   at a ceremony held in New Delhi on Children’s Day. He had received a cash prize of Rs 10,000, which he saved for his noble gesture.
 
 “It is a matter of pride for me because I didn’t know he was so sensitive and serious towards extending a helping hand to others. He could have asked me to buy him a videogame or branded clothes, but to my surprise, all he wanted was to save money for the prisoners,” said Ayush’s mother Vinita Malvi.
 
 An avid music lover, Ayush had also saved cash that he received after his outstanding classical vocals and tabla performances. The DPS kid also finds a place in World Amazing Records (an Indian world record organisation affiliated to India Book of Records, Global World Records and UK World Records) after winning an award for mental maths. 
 
