Once an actor, always an actor. So I won’t say it’s a comeback, even though it’s been ages since I acted in a Telugu film,” quips an excited  , who is set to return to Telugu cinema three decades after starring in Balakrishna’s 1998 film, 'Rana'. The 'Maine Pyar Kiya' star has been signed up to star in remake of the 2014 Bollywood blockbuster, ' '. 
 
 Adivi Sesh is playing the lead opposite actor Rajasekhar’s daughter  , who’s making her debut with the film directed by Venkat Reddy. Admittedly, the film happened out of the blue. “I saw '2 States' and felt it was a brilliant film. So when director Venkat approached me, I thought why not and decided to give it a shot. The script is a little different from the original, but I loved it nevertheless,” she says.
 
 While the Arjun Kapoor-Alia Bhatt starrer was a love story between a Punjabi boy and a Tamil brahmin girl, the characterisations of the protagonists have been tweaked a little in the remake. Bhagyashree will reprise Revathy’s role (Alia’s mother) in the original. “Adivi Sesh is a Telugu boy from Hyderabad and Shivani plays a Bengali brahmin from Kolkata. I play Shivani’s mother,” reveals Bhagyashree. 
 
 Talking about her character, Bhagyashree adds, “She’s a woman of today who speaks her mind and is very protective about her daughter. She the kind who won’t hesitate to tell a guy, ‘If you mess around with my girl, you’ll have to pay for it’. I guess all women would do that for their daughters.”
 
 The actress is on a mission to brush up on her Telugu for now. “When I was doing films here back in the 90s, I could understand everything, I 
 remember one of my directors telling somebody on the sets, ‘Iske samne kuch mat bolna, isko sab samajh mein ata hai’ (laughs). But I’ve 
 forgotten Telugu and I need to learn it again. Unlike a lot of actors, I’m very bad at reading placards and delivering my dialogues. I need to know my lines to emote them correctly, so I don’t have a choice but to learn Telugu again,” she says, signing off.
 
