KOLKATA: The State Election Commission on Monday, in a move that constitutional experts described as “extremely rare”, extended by a day the last date for filing of   for Bengal’s rural polls. Candidates now have an extra four-hour window on Tuesday to file their papers, a process that has been marred by widespread violence, allegations of opposition candidates not being allowed to file their papers and a death.

 The SEC decision came late on Monday, almost half-a-day after the   rejected a BJP petition to intervene in the nomination process but directed the SEC to ensure “disposal of any such grievance” according to law so that candidates were not deprived of their “chance to contest the   elections”.
 
 BJP had sought the SC’s intervention to ensure that its candidates could file their nomination papers and demanded deployment of central forces during the polls but the SC said it did not want to interfere in the election process after it had already started.
 
 The SEC, earlier on Monday, had to accept the nomination of three Independent candidates from Bhangar after Justice Shekhar Bobby Saraf of the Calcutta High Court, responding to a writ petition, asked the SEC to accept their papers.
 
 The SEC also had to take cognisance of 134 papers after a Left delegation submitted them to its office before the nomination process ended at 3 p.m. on Monday. The poll panel, however, is yet to decide on the status of the 1,000 nomination forms that BJP leaders took to its office later on Monday evening.
 
 The writ petition in the Calcutta HC alleged police inaction againt Trinamool Congress supporters who were not allowing opposition candidates to file nomination papers. The peitioners alleged that they did not get a reprieve even after lodging a complaint with the Bhangar police station.
 
 There was a flurry of activity at the SEC office on Monday when delegations from political parties — the Trinamool, the BJP and the Left Front — made their own different interpretations of the apex court order.
 
 For Trinamool secretary-general  , the BJP’s takeaway from the SC order was “zero”. Chatterjee, instead, urged the state election commissioner to act on his own without coming under pressure from other quarters.
 
 BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, however, pointed to three paragraphs of the SC order where it had categorically asked the SEC to redress grievances concerning filing of nomination and conduct of free and fair polls. “The apex court order leaves scope for submitting our grievances in writing,” Ghosh said. BJP leaders Rahul Sinha and Samik Bhattacharya made things more complicated for the SEC when they reached its office in the evening with 1,000 nomination forms and insisted that the SEC should accept the nominations in the light of the SC order.
 
 The apex court order also came in handy for Left leaders, who were mulling more legal options if the SEC turned down their plea.
 
 State election commissioner Amarendra Singh held a two-hour meeting with his colleagues to discuss the implications of the SC order before coming out with the late-night order, extending the nomination-filing process.
 
 
