KOLKATA: A   (KMC) team has detected 16   on the city’s southern fringes and along EM Bypass — areas that have been struck by an enteric outbreak. The civic authorities suspect the leaks could be responsible for contaminating water in the area, resulting in the outbreak that has resulted in the death of a 33-year-old and continues to affect thousands. The spread of diarrhoea, according to   sources, is the worst in several decades.

 The KMC water supply department engineers came across these leaks in Kasba, Garfa, Madurdaha, Mukundapur, Santoshpur, Jadavpur, Bagha Jatin and Patuli over the past four days (the drive began on Monday). A detailed report on the findings has been submitted to mayor Sovan Chatterjee’s office.
 
 According to department sources, though these leaks are small in size and might have been caused by digging activities, those located in the ‘disease zone’ might have played an active role in the outbreak. “Though it is too early to say that the leaks had a role to play in the outbreak, we can’t rule out the possibility as some pipes in the affected zones were laid too close to the sewage lines running parallel below the surface,” said a KMC water supply department official.
 
 “If sewage water mixes with potable water, the result could be disastrous. We have been examining the spots and will be able to come to a conclusion only after a close inspection in the locality,” said a KMC official.
 
 TOI on Friday surveyed some of the affected areas and came across at least two that appeared to be vulnerable. One such spot was Santoshpur Sixth Road, where sewerage upgrade was under way. Heaps of sewage pipes lay on the road close to a dug-up area where two KMC water stand posts were spotted. Incidentally, Sixth Road happens to be one of the worst hit by diarrhoea. Similarly, a water supply project under way across a canal near Garfa police station could be a potential source for the outbreak in the Garfa and Haltu areas. The KMC water supply department officials said they would examine the spots soon.
 
 However, a section of the KMC water supply department engineers said a search for more such leaks would continue. In fact, the department oficials said that quality of potable water was being monitored every day. “Checking water quality is a regular task. We do it for 365 days a year. Going by the quality of water, we send warning signals to our staff and ask them to visit the areas where water pipes may have developed certain cracks,” said a department official. However, the official expressed surprise over the rapid spread of the disease in large areas without any prior signals. “We are also worried about some central and north Kolkata areas where underground sewer lines and water pipes run parallel to each other,” the KMC official said.
 
 
