GUWAHATI: A day before counting of votes, Nagaland’s ruling Naga People’s Front ( ) initiated a move that many see as an attempt to circumvent the possibility of   grabbing power in case of a hung assembly. 

 In the outgoing TR   government, BJP is an ally of NPF. Despite this, the saffron party dumped NPF to choose the Neiphiu Rio-led Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party as its poll partner. 
 
 Rio had recently founded NDPP after breaking away from NPF. On Saturday, NPF submitted to governor PB Acharya copies of its pre-poll agreements with National People’s Party (NPP) and JD(U). Prior to Tuesday’s election, NPF and BJP had fought the assembly polls together thrice. Interestingly, NPP and JD(U) are BJP’s partners at the Centre. 
 
 In   too, NPP and BJP are fighting separately. The letter signed by the heads of the three parties, Shurhozelie Lietzietsu (NPF), Ato Yepthomi (NPP) and Senchumo Lotha (JD-U), said, “The alliance is confident of getting absolute majority…We would together be staking claim to form the government. We would request you to consider our claim as per established norms and as per the majority secured by the alliance.” The letter also said the three parties have chosen Zeliang as their common chief ministerial candidate. 
 
 When asked why the alliance submitted the letter to the governor before counting of votes, NPF secretary Sebastian Zumvu said, “We shouldn’t forget what happened in Manipur and Goa where BJP managed to capture power without being the single largest party. We want to stop such a thing from happening here.” 
 
 The three parties said they had entered into an agreement before the February 27 polls. They added that though NPF fought in 58, NPP in 25 and JD (U) in 13 seats, in many constituencies the contests between the three parties were friendly. Rio has already won Northern Angami-II constituency unopposed. 
 
 This time, the Christian-majority state saw bitterly fought elections. After the Church warned voters of ‘invasion by Hindutva forces’, NPF too tried to corner BJP over the plight of minorities.
 
