On the night of May 11, the water level in the Selvachinthamani lake was barely one feet below its capacity. As the threat of overflowing loomed large, the authorities decided to open the sluice gates and release water into the channels. That’s when the officials realised the urgent need to maintain sluice gates and remove silt and bushes in the channels. As the public started to gather on the streets, despite pounding rain, fearing flooding in residential localities, officials pressed in earthmovers and cleared the channels, allowing water to flow.

 The sluice gates of many lakes and outlet channels in the city are ill maintained. Activists demand the civic body form an exclusive wing to maintain water bodies.
 
 Coimbatore corporation has been maintaining eight tanks, including Muthannankulam, Selvachinthamani,   and  , besides the canals that connect the eight tanks. On May 11, the water level in the Selvachinthamani tank reached the maximum level and the corporation officials failed to open the sluice gates immediately. Tension prevailed in the area and the people living near the tank were in a state of panic. The city police had to rush to the spot to pacify the public. Later, corporation officials opened the sluice gates and the water reached Ukkadam Periyakulam.
 
 “Water has touched the maximum level at   and it has three sluice gates which are not maintained properly by the corporation. People dump garbage and other waste into the canal all the way from Selvachinthamani Kulam to Ukkadam Periyakulam, with the result that water stagnates in the canal. If the rain continues for a week, the Selvachinthamani Kulam could breach. The corporation should immediately strengthen the sluice gate of the tank and clean the canals from the Ukkadam Periyakulam,” said R Manikandan, Kovai Kulangal Padhukappu Amaippu.
 
 He added that Ukkadam Periyakulam too has only one sluice gate, that too in a bad condition, located opposite the Ukkadam town bus stand. “One such gate is not enough to release the water if the tank overflows during heavy rain. Two sluice gates in the tank were closed by the PWD and the corporation. There are a lot of encroachments in the canals to Valankulam, which the corporation should remove immediately,” said Manikandan.
 
 Valankulam does not have a sluice gate to release water; it has two pipelines, which is not enough. The corporation should fix sluice gates in Valankulam.
 
 “Muthannankulam on   is overflowing for the past three days. But the four sluice gates were not opened to release the water. The main keys to open the sluice gates are with few fishermen. Fish from the tank would go to other tanks if they open the sluice gates,” said an activist.
 
 When contacted, corporation officials said they would clear the garbage in the canals soon.
 
 “The corporation should form an exclusive wing to maintain the eight lakes and the canals linking these. It should allot sufficient funds under the smart city projects to clean and desilt the canals and tanks,” said Manikandan.
 
 
