CHANDIGARH: From the next academic session, people from economically weaker sections, who want to get their children educated under the   will have to face an uphill struggle. In a letter to the education department, the DC office said they will not issue income certificates for admission under Right to Education. The letter sent by DC office states that schools may be directed to admit students based on self-certification. A copy of the letter is with TOI. 

 The move comes as a surprise for all stakeholders, including the education department, parents and schools, who want to know who will verify the credibility of self-certification. This means people from the EWS section will have to run from pillar to post for admissions under Right to Education Act as schools have stated they will not accept self-certification for want of credibility.
 
 The DC office has been trying to discontinue the practice of issuing Economically Weaker Section (EWS) certificates to people from 2016, when they cited staff crunch as the reason. However, no official communication was given to the education department. Later, when complaints poured in from harassed parents, the education department pursued the issue. After the intervention of the administrator, the DC office was asked to start issuing certificates. At that time too, parents had to shuttle between various departments to get their children admitted for the 2017-18 session as schools had refused to accept self-declaration. 
 
 The education department is at a loss to work out a system that will ensure admission to genuine students in the EWS quota. Director, school education   said, "We are through with this year's admission under the Right to Education Act. We will see what is to be done for the next academic year." Another senior official, requesting anonymity said they plan to study the system adopted by other states.
 
 School authorities fear the self-certification system can be used to conceal facts in the declaration. Also, they said that since the government has to pay reimbursement for these seats, they must ensure the money is used for genuine cases. "In the event of dishonest applicants, who will be responsible for outright defrauding of the state exchequer? (as the government pays some amount as compensation to schools )," they asked. 
 
 A B S Sidhu, vice-president, Independent Schools Association-cum-director, Saupin's School said, "the administration has chosen to abdicate its responsibility in yet another important matter. Unscrupulous elements will misuse it and the administration will find a way to blame private schools and deny them compensation for EWS students. Why does the government introduce welfare schemes when it does not have the wherewithal to implement them?"  , principal, Tender Heart school, who lodged a complaint with the DC about fake income certificates being provided by parents, said, "In such cases, the administration may lay out an alternative method to determine income."
 
 Parents have also condemned the move. Nitin Goyal, President Chandigarh parents association said, "The decision of the DC office is a welcome step. The private schools have been unnecessarily insisting on income certificates, that too year after year, causing harassment to parents belonging to EWS category. When the administration has asked the schools to accept self-declarations, I wonder why schools need to suspect the applicants, they are only fulfilling their obligation of admitting 25% children from the EWS category, for which they get their due reimbursement too. There are around 700 seats under 25% EWS quota in private schools. In a recent letter sent to schools, the district education officer has asked schools to finish admissions under the EWS quota under RTE Act by February 28. Schools have been asked to consider students who have slips as proof to show they have applied for income certificate.
 
 
