JAIPUR: Having 39% of total   who are stunted (height-for-age), the state has a difficult task in hand to ensure that   will not be affected when these children grow up into adults.

 Arjan De Wagt – Chief of Nutrition, Unicef India Country Office, while talking about why   is important to achieve sustainable development goals said, “Stunted children are denied the opportunity to grow up to be skilled productive workforce capital that Rajasthan will need in the future.” He further added, “Investing in child nutrition now is an investment in the growth and social and economic development of Rajasthan in the future.”
 
 Wagt clearly indicated that stunted growth of children directly impact skilled productive workforce capital in the future. He also pointed out that children with stunted growth not only have short height for age but also they do not have developed brain like other healthy children have. He was speaking at a multi-sectoral consultation programme organised on Monday by department of women and child development along with its development partners for effective implementation of National Nutrition Mission in the state.
 
 Focussing on efforts made to improve nutrition in the past, MK Bhan, member, National Technical Board on Nutrition said, “There is some progress in stunting and wasting (reducing it) and little progress in reducing anemia. It is not that nothing has changed. But, enough has not changed.” He said that   (ICDS) and health department involve in blame game when impact is not happening. “But actually everybody is trying,” said Bhan, emphasising that design of system is equally important and only hard work will not produce result indicating that if desired results are not produced, efforts should be made differently.
 
 Talking on state’s perspective and commitment to addressing under-nutrition, State’s chief secretary NC Goyal said, human capital should be healthy, efficient and able to perform in the desired manner, for which the work should be taken up at the cutting edge level with the emphasis on the concept of convergence. He cited the example of the Mukhya Mantri Jal Swavalamban Yojana, in which different departments have come together to ensure availability of water. The NNM's guidelines would enable the state functionaries to formulate plans of action at the state and district levels, he said.
 
 He said the NNM framework would come handy for the officials in Rajasthan to ensure proper development of human capital, which was earlier considered a burden with each Census showing an increase in population.
 
 Besides, district collector Banswara Bhagwati Prasad Kalal shared his experience of launching Pukaar, a programme for convergence of different departments to reach up to the people encouraging them to avail healthcare schemes and also aiming to improve nutrition of adolescent girls, pregnant women and infants.
 
 
