BENGALURU: The Karnataka capital may make global buzz with its achievements in science, technology and education but it seems to be a bastion of conservatism when it comes to sending women to the assembly. Bengaluru, which has 28 assembly constituencies, has elected only one woman MLA in over two decades.

 With the countdown to the May 12 poll having begun, will the picture be any different this time? Will Benglauru back its women all the way to the assembly? And before that, will political parties stop giving homilies and walk the talk by giving more tickets to women?
 
 Unlikely, say political observers. For while all parties vociferously back representation for women, they continue to question the winnability factor.
 
 
  
 
 The skewed representation in the assembly is likely to continue for two reasons, they say. One, there are not many women wielding the required clout and heft in mainstream parties. Two, political parties too continue to think that women lack the killer instinct that matters at the hustings and defines winnability.
 
 Prodded on the issue, a senior Congress leader shot back: “Where are the women who have the ability to win on their own in Bengaluru?” And that is a view shared by BJP strategists too.
 
 In fact, not many women are intensely lobbying for tickets (from BJP, Congress and JD(S)) this time round. While former mayor G Padmavathi is seeking a Congress ticket from Rajajinagar, home minister R Ramalinga Reddy’s daughter, Sowmya Reddy, is getting ready to debut in Jayanagar constituency and entrepreneur Kavitha Reddy has sought a Congress ticket from Bommanahalli.
 
 One woman candidate, former IAS officer Renuka Vishwanathan from Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), has already started her campaigning from Shantinagar. The new entrant,  , is likely to field women candidates but the party is only a fringe player.
 
 BJP leader Shobha Karandlaje, also a former minister, was the only woman to have been elected from a Benglauru assembly constituency in the last four elections. Elected from Yeshwantpur in 2008, she lost in 2013 from Rajajinagar. Before her, Pramila Nesargi was elected from Chamrajpet in 1991.
 
 Of the 58 women who contested in 2008 and 2013 assembly polls from the 28 constituencies of Bengaluru, only six managed to get their deposits back.
 
 Why is Bengaluru, where women have made significant strides in education, entrepreneurship, technology and employment, not electing more woman MLAs?
 
 “Maybe, politics has become synonymous with male-domination and this applies to all political parties. It stems from a misconception that elections are all about money and muscle power and that only men can fight and win them,” Karandlaje said.
 
 She felt that one of the ways to increase women’s participation in the electoral process was to provide reservation for women in the legislative assembly. Currently, only local bodies have 50% reservation for women “We have more women corporators in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) because of reservation, but we don’t have so many women in the assembly,” she added.
 
 “It is a psychological setback. When the time comes for ticket distribution women are relegated to the background. Merit is not the criterion and parties do not realise that women candidates too are aggressive and can fight to win,” Shaista Yusuf, social activist and head of Mahfil-e-Nisa (a women’s group), said.
 
 Shaista believes BBMP is the wrong template to judge the political potential of women. “In a majority of the cases, husbands of the women corporators call the shots. Maybe, that is creating a wrong perception about women,” she said.
 
