BHOPAL: Three-time MP from Jabalpur, Rakesh Singh, emerged as the dark horse in the race for Madhya Pradesh   chief, edging out stalwarts like Narendra Singh Tomar, Kailash Vijayvargiya and Narottam Mishra. 

 BJP national president Amit Shah on Wednesday anointed Singh as state BJP chief six months ahead of assembly polls, and his predecessor Nandkumar Singh Chouhan was elevated to the party’s national working committee. Chief minister  , Nandkumar and Rakesh Singh arrived together for the official announcement at the state BJP headquarters after 3pm, and the new state chief was welcomed with garlands, sweets, drumbeats and bursting of crackers.
 
 Addressing a small gathering of BJP leaders and workers, CM Chouhan hinted that it was indeed a surprise decision. “This is the quality of BJP. As a party worker, you may be walking on the road when news reaches that you have been appointed the next state BJP president. Rakesh Singh was preparing for an official tour and night halt elsewhere when he was told that he has to take charge of MP’s BJP unit,” Chouhan said, warning that 2018 and 2019 elections won’t be easy as the Opposition is united. “It will be BJP versus all. So get ready for the challenge,” he said.
 
 Though   was quick to fire an opening shot, calling Singh a “compromise candidate”, BJP sources said careful thought had gone into Singh’s selection. He is from Mahakaushal, where BJP aims to blunt Congress stalwart Kamal Nath’s influence. He is also an OBC, making it the first time that both the CM and ruling party chief in MP are OBCs. It could prove to be a deciding factor in the elections as MP has 51%   population (2011 Census).
 
 Addressing BJP workers for the first time as state party chief, Singh said, “Giving and taking responsibility is a regular process in the party. I get very emotional when I think that the central and state leadership — including Amit Shah, Ramlal, Shivraj Singh Chouhan and Nandkumar Singh Chouhan — thought me suitable for the job. A change of responsibility may have taken place but the target remains the same — a fourth term government, with Shivraj Singh Chouhan as chief minister in 2018 and have the Modi government re-elected in 2019.”
 
 Singh’s appointment was preceded by a day of suspense and tension as the BJP core committee meeting on Tuesday ended without an announcement. Sources hinted at hectic late-night parleys and a meeting at the CM’s residence. On Wednesday morning, a letter arrived from BJP national general secretary Arun Singh naming Rakesh Singh as Nandkumar’s successor.
 
 After the announcement, Nandkumar aka Nandu Bhaiyya said, “Today is the auspicious Akshaya Tritiya and destiny has chosen Rakesh Singh to take charge of our party in Madhya Pradesh. BJP is a party built on ideology of our patriarchs like Kushabhau Thakre. The organisation gave me the opportunity to work, and I honestly did my best. Now, I am sure that three-time MP Rakesh Singh will take the party forward and we will undoubtedly achieve our target of ‘ab ki baar 200 paar’, form a fourth BJP government in the state, and elect   as Prime Minister for a second term in 2019.”
 
 A large part of the CM’s speech went in praise of Nandu Bhaiyya. “Under Nandkumar Singh Chauhan, we won 16 civic polls, nine assembly bypolls and Shahdol Lok Sabha bypoll,” he said. Explaining the party’s defeat in the last four assembly bypolls — Ater, Chitrakoot, Kolaras and Mungaoli — Chouhan said, “Those seats were not ours but we still reduced their winning margins.” Complimenting Rakesh Singh’s organisational skills, Chouhan — himself a former state BJP chief — recalled how the MP “transformed a Congress bastion into a BJP fortress” when he was put in charge of Bargi assembly seat in Jabalpur. “Even in Jabalpur Lok Sabha seat, BJP was not very strong but it was Rakesh’s hard work that turned it into our stronghold,” the CM said. 
 
 Congress, however, isn’t impressed. Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh called Singh a “compromise” candidate. “After a string of bypoll defeats, BJP decided to change the state party president. But the question is, when there were so many big leaders in the race, why did BJP settle for a lightweight whose name was not even in the reckoning?” Ajay Singh asked, adding: “Obviously, Rakesh Singh emerged as a compromise between chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and the BJP central leadership.” 
 
 
