GUNTUR: In what could shock one's senses, pictures of doctors performing an   with the help of a   at the Government   (GGH) have surfaced. 

 Power supply had apparently tripped when the doctors were in the middle of the surgery on a woman on February 7. The hospital's administration took a long time to restore the supply from a standby generator, raising questions over the functioning of the GGH. The surgeons faced a similar predicament on February 14 while performing another surgery. Luckily, both the patients survived the trauma and are doing well. 
 
  
  
  
 
 The incident came to light when the doctors, who were vexed with the hospital administration's negligence in repairing the electricity supply system in operation theatres, leaked the visuals to the  . The twin incidents have created ripples in the health department and the government has sought a report from superintendent Dr DS Raju Naidu.
 
 
  
  
 
 Sources said the plastic surgeons were performing a reconstructive surgery on an accident victim (a woman) on February 7 when the power supply tripped. The doctors had to depend on the cellphone torchlight to complete the procedure. The doctors brought the issue to the notice of Dr Naidu with a plea to set things right. But, their pleas seemed to have fallen on the deaf ears of the top authorities as the doctors faced a similar situation in the operation theatre on Wednesday when an electric hand-drilling machine stopped functioning during a surgery as power supply snapped. 
 
 The doctors leaked both the videos of the surgeries to the media,   in a tight spot. They said that though the surgeries were not major in nature, they cannot take chances putting the lives of the patients at grave risk.
 
 When contacted, Dr Naidu said that there was no trouble with the electricity supply as they have back-up power generators. "The particular incident took place on February 7 when the supply was interrupted after a miniature circuit breaker tripped. It was restored within a few minutes," he told TOI. Naidu said he will look into the issue and take corrective measures, if needed.
 
 Sources said the plastic surgery wing, which has not been given a dedicated OT, has been handling surgeries in the old OT, which was renovated recently. But, infrastructure in the renovated theatre is not up to the mark, sources said. Only two headlamps out of 10 in the OT are functioning. Since the electrical contractor quoted 5 lakh to completely replace the lighting system, the authorities are believed to have suggested to the doctors to manage with the "existing" infrastructure. 
 
 The doctors, including a deputy superintendent, however, cautioned the superintendent about a possible failure of electric supply, which could affect surgeries. "It is shocking to note that the superintendent has taken our plea lightly and has not paid heed to the emergency situation," said a senior doctor on condition of anonymity.
 
 
