GURUGRAM: Rajaram (10) was searching for his shiny marbles — the only prized possession he could boast of — in the black and gray remains of his house that was charred, along with over 150 other shanties, in an early morning fire at a Sector 49 slum on Saturday.

 A Class IV student of Government Primary School-Sector 50, he skipped his classes this morning as he was down with fever. A few hours later, as the flames engulfed their shanties around 10am, the boy, clad in a vest and a pair of shorts, found himself standing among 500-odd residents, helplessly staring at the blaze that reduced almost everything to ashes within an hour.
 
 Though his parents, like many others, lost all valuables, including money,  , documents and identity cards, Rajaram managed to dig out some of his ‘precious’ marbles from the ashes.
 
 Maushumi (28), originally from  , could salvage only a few burnt papers, which she said were her documents. “My purse has been burnt,” she said and bursts into tears. “My phone, money and my IDs — everything is gone in the fire.” 
 
 “When I saw the fire, I somehow pulled my kids out and took them to a safe distance. But as I was going back to get my purse, people stopped me and didn’t let me go in,” she rued.
 
 Neelotpal (26) and   (22), who work as carpenters, lived in the shanty next to the one from where the fire had apparently started. They lost their drilling and cutting machines required for wood work. “We don’t know what we will do without them. There were flames all around and cylinders were bursting, one after another. We took out our cylinder and threw it in a nearby water tanker,” said Neelotpal, who is also from Bengal like most of the residents at the slum.
 
 Parwina (26) was sitting in the middle of the plot, where her house was standing still a few hours ago. “I have lost everything. There is nothing left here for me,” she said, holding her head.
 
 Many of the residents had gone to work, some left their kids alone at home, before the fire broke out. “Two kids — five year old and six year old — were locked inside the house. Their parents had gone to work. We broke the door and rescued them in time,” said Sheikh, another resident.
 
 Pramod Paswan, works as a cook in Sector 50, had dropped his three children at the nearby government school and gone to work. “I got a call from my wife that there was a fire. I came running to find that everything had burnt. My children are left with the clothes they had worn to school,” he said.
 
 While the administration is claimed to have started efforts to rehabilitate the victims, the residents said it would take them years to get back to normal life.
 
 
