JAIPUR/MUMBAI: The row over 'Padmaavat' took an unexpected turn with one of the fringe   groups voicing its support for it, claiming that the courage and sacrifice of Rajputs have been beautifully showcased in the movie. 

 A letter signed by Shri Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena's national vice-president Yogendra Singh Katar and Sena's Maharashtra coordinator Jeevan Singh has been handed over to Bhansali production, claiming that they do not have any objection over screening the movie now.
 
 "As advised by the organisation president, Sukhdev Singh Gogamedi, we watched the film. The film is based on and dedicated to the great Rani Padmini. Since it has nothing objectionable, we are withdrawing our protest and assuring you co-operation and support for the movie's screening in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh," the letter said. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Katar told TOI that they saw the movie on Friday in Mumbai following the invitation of the production house. “We saw the movie and do not find anything wrong or defamatory in the movie. So, we have decided to withdraw our agitation against the movie and will allow its release in Gujarat and Rajasthan,” said Katar.
 
 Surjeet Singh Rathore, who accompanied Katar, said that Karni Sena would announce their support for the film on Saturday. The move has, however, brought to the surface the differences among various Rajput outfits – all going by the name of Karni Sena.
 
 Vijendra Singh, spokesperson of the Shree Rajput Karni Sena, founded by Lokendra Kalvi, said that they were aware of Shri Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena’s letter to the filmmaker as it was doing the rounds in the social media and Rajput groups, but do not accept their verdict. “We have not seen the film, so our protest will continue. We were the first who led the protests against the film, which started when Bhansali came to Jaipur to shoot the film,” said Vijendra.
 
 Shri Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena had strongly protested against the release of the film. Its president Gogamedi had also demanded the resignation of Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) chief Prasoon Joshi and threatened ‘roadblocks’ and ‘rail roko’ agitation against the film.
 
 Earlier in the day, the Rajasthan High Court ordered the special screening of ‘Padmaavat’ on Monday, following a petition filed by film director Sanjay Leela Bhansali to quash an FIR filed against him and actors Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh at Deedwana police station last year in March.
 
 
 
