“If we pledge to impart primary education to our children in Konkani—the language that possesses the best textbooks—I can say for certain, no school in Marathi, Portuguese or English will ever survive in Goa. All primary schools in Goa will then run in  .”

 That was the vision held aloft by the late  , a stalwart of modern Konkani literature, through his presidential address at the Akhil Bhartiya Konkani Sahitya Sammelan held in   on November 16-17, 1969.
 
 His sense of conviction about the success of Konkani in primary education emanated from the superlative quality of textbooks prepared by Konkani-lovers, through their labour of love post-liberation, after the then government of free Goa gave its nod for Konkani to be taught in primary schools.
 
 “When the question of primary schools first arose in Goa after it gained  , some of us Konkani lovers insisted that Konkani should definitely go into primary education. There weren’t any Konkani textbooks then, and hardly any other books as well in Konkani. Besides, we had no experience at all of what would be the fate of the students taking education in Konkani. But we knew of just one principle too well—that a child should be imparted education only in its own language, that the Goa government should accept this universally acknowledged principle...,” Kelekar explained in his address.
 
 He went on to say that for children studying in Konkani, the benefits are three-fold—there’s a phenomenal rise in their grasping power, there’s substantial increase in their thirst for knowledge, and they gain immense potential for self-expression.
 
 “If you want Goa’s children to be educated in the real sense of the term, then don’t cede Konkani’s space to any other language—no matter how mighty the language is or how dire the need be.”
 
 That was exactly 49 years ago.
 
 Three decades before that, the first Konkani   held in 1939, through several resolutions passed at the conference, had called upon the government to make provision for imparting primary education through the medium of Konkani in Devanagiri script.
 
 Since then, the issue has been passionately discussed and debated at forums of the Parishad, but the dream of Konkani getting the dominant space in primary education in Goa has remained only a distant dream. The Konkani movement suffered a major setback when in 2011 the state government changed its policy to extend grants to English medium primary schools, and subsequently in 2017 when the BJP-led government failed to reverse the policy, despite vehement protests from the Konkani brigade.
 
 “For Konkani, the major jolt is the shift in the medium of instruction,” says  . “People prefer to send their wards for primary education to either Marathi medium or the English. Marathi because it has been a tradition, and English because it is trendy. Masses that follow the classes blindly believe that their wards will immensely benefit by this shift, not realising that the ward will never master the ‘other’ language.”
 
 The Sahitya Akademi award winner attempts to feel the pulse of the younger generation which has drifted away from Konkani. “Goa is fast turning into a city state with its fast paced urbanisation. The common dream of the youth is to go abroad or aboard ship. Greener pastures woo them and hence, they feel no need of the proficiency in Konkani. In view of this confusing situation, the second-generation classes are seen moving away from the language of the soil. The masses are seen blindly following the classes that are in favour of English in public and at home.”
 
 The debate now veers to the role of various Konkani institutions in the state in their task of turning the tide. Have they done enough to hold aloft Kelekar’s vision of Konkani education before the masses? Despite starkly contrasting views, Konkani intelligentsia agree on one count—that they have miles to go before the goal is reached.
 
 (Tomorrow: A tale of two scripts & a language)
 
