AGARTALA: While   takes its partnership talks with the NC Debbarma faction of   People's Front of Tripura (IPFT) forward, Congress has floated a proposal to form a grand alliance to take on the ruling Left Front and BJP in Tripura. 

 Hoping to win over the IPFT's rival Tipraha faction, the Indigenous Nationalist Party of Twipra (INPT), the   (NCT) and the  , Congress has already initiated talks with the parties. Earlier, the tribal parties had been open to an alliance with BJP but with the saffron party taking the talks ahead with IPFT (NC), the possibility of a partnership fizzled out. The NC faction was firm that any electoral understanding they enter would mean alliance discussions with other tribal parties would have to end.
 
 "We have already held several rounds of discussions. With BJP and IPFT (NC) striking a partnership, the five-party alliance led by Congress has gained momentum. Seat sharing will be resolved soon," Congress legislature party leader   said on Saturday.
 
 INPT and NCT leaders also confirmed that partnership talks are on. "We wanted to forge an alliance with BJP, a national party. We had several rounds of talks with the party but the entry of IPFT (NC), the situation has changed," an INPT leader said. "We are not leaving the field to the BJP and IPFT, however. Our parties will challenge IPFT (NC) in the hills," the leader added.
 
 As the understanding now stands, all parties will field candidates in both reserved and unreserved seats. INPT will field more candidates in the hills while Congress will field more candidates in the unreserved seats, Roy said. In the 60-member assembly, there are 20 ST seats, 10 SC seats and 30 unreserved seats.
 
 Accusing both CPM and BJP of adopting a divide and rule policy, Roy said the Congress-led alliance will field "clean and fresh" candidates to fight against them. "Congress has a traditional vote bank in Tripura. BJP has grown over the past two years because of CPM's divide and rule policy. BJP is trying to capture by any possible means," he added.
 
 
