LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced a person to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for allegedly raping a minor girl. The judge of special court,  , also imposed a fine of Rs 1,25,000 on the convict, and in default of payment of fine to undergo further rigorous imprisonment (RI) for three years. On 13 March 2014, Sarabha Nagar police station had booked a 23-year-old labourer of Sunet village for kidnapping a 13-year-old and raping her.

 As per prosecution, on 13 March 2014, the complainant recorded her statement with the police, saying she had four children, two daughters, and two sons, and one of her daughters was working as a domestic servant in a house in BRSS Nagar for the past three years. On 12 March 2014 at around 6.30 pm, she said she received a call from the wife of her daughter’s employer enquiring about her daughter, as she had not reached their home. The complainant then started searching for her daughter, but in vain. Later, she came to know that the accused, who lived in the same building complex where they were living, enticed her daughter away with the promise of marrying her.
 
 The police later booked the accused under sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting, or inducing a woman to compel her for marriage), 376 (rape) of the  , and Section 3 and 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. On 11 April 2015, the police party arrested the accused from   railway station and rescued the minor girl.
 
 In her statement to the police, the girl said the accused took her away after making her consume some ‘prasad’. When she regained consciousness, she was at his village. During the trial, the accused pleaded not guilty. The additional public prosecutor from the state, SS Haidar, pleaded for punishment to the accused on the basis of the statement of the prosecutrix, the complainant, other prosecution witnesses, and the medical report.
 
 The court observed that the victim was a child, and it was on record that the accused committed penetrative sexual assault upon her, so there was no defence available to him, and added that there was also no defence with regard to consent for marriage available in the Pocso act. The court further observed that the accused had not proved on record that he had solemnized a legal marriage with the victim. The public prosecutor said the court sentenced the accused under Section 366-A of the IPC (seven years RI), and under Section 4 of the Pocso Act (10 years RI). He added that both the sentences would run concurrently. 
 
 
