NEW DELHI: The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2017, which criminalises instant talaq (talaq-e-biddat), will be tabled in Rajya Sabha in the second half of the budget session even as numbers are stacked against the government in the upper House. 

 “The first half is brief and will be dedicated mostly to motion of thanks to the President’s speech but the   will be listed in the second phase,” a government source told TOI. 
 
 The budget will be tabled on February 1 and Parliament will break on February 9. The second part of the session is from March 5 to April 6. 
 
 The government on Monday declared its intent to secure early passage of the controversial triple talaq bill, with Prime Minister   identifying it as one of his priorities for the budget session. 
 
 “In the last session, it was our effort and the nation had high hopes that there won’t be any politics on crucial issues like triple talaq so that Muslim women will get their rights. However, despite the order of the Supreme Court, the bill on triple talaq could not be passed by Parliament. I hope and appeal to political parties across the country to join hands in passing the triple   to protect the rights of Muslim women. It will indeed be the best gift of 2018, in the new year for Muslim women,” the PM told reporters before entering Parliament.
 
 The bill provides for jail term up to three years for those who practice instant triple talaq which was declared illegal by the SC last year. Opposition parties have disagreed with this and have demanded that the bill be referred to a select committee.
 
 The government’s intent to go ahead was articulated also through President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to the joint sitting of the two Houses. “Muslim women's honour was a victim of political one-upmanship. Now, the country has the opportunity to free them from this situation,” the President said, adding, “My government tabled a bill on triple talaq in Parliament and I hope it will become law soon. After the law comes into force, Muslim daughters and sisters can live a life free of fear and dignity."
 
 Later, the President tweeted, “For decades, the dignity of Muslim women has remained captive to political cost-benefit. Now, the nation has an opportunity to emancipate them from this situation.”
 
 Despite opposition’s insistence, the government did not agree to the demand to decriminalise triple talaq by doing away with the imprisonment clause. Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has repeatedly said that making the act a criminal offence was the very soul of the legislation. 
 
 Although the government plans to introduce the bill in Rajya Sabha, it has the option of a joint sitting of both Houses in case the deadlock prevails. However, a senior BJP leader said joint session was not on the agenda yet and efforts were on to reach a consensus and get the bill passed in the budget session. 
 
 
