NEW DELHI: With the latest   reporting a fast depleting water table in Delhi, the focus is on the thousands of illegal borewells that are draining the aquifers. 

 After repeated raps from the National Green Tribunal, Delhi Jal Board sealed around 730 illegal borewells in the past month. By its own admission, the water utility says there are 5,000 of these illegal water extraction points in the city. The real number could actually be bigger.
 
 “Borewells are extensively used in urban villages and unauthorised colonies, but their concentration is especially high in places like Dwarka, Kapashera, Vikaspuri, Mehrauli, Janakpuri, Narela and Bawana,” a DJB official conceded. Most of these places fall in CGWB’s red zone where more groundwater is extracted than replenished. The CGWB report, submitted to the   on Tuesday, said south Delhi was noticeably affected, with water now to be found only at a depth of 79 metres below ground level in Kapashera and 78 metres in Mehrauli’s Gadaipur village.
 
 On January 30, NGT directed Delhi government to seal all unauthorised borewells in the capital within three months. DJB has also sealed the points with chloride levels beyond permissible levels. The city’s water supplier has conducted a pan-Delhi survey to identify illegal borewells, but hasn’t publicised its findings yet. Sources disclosed that Dwarka alone appears to have over 3,000 of such wells, leaving the total number across the city to be imagined.
 
 The people affected by the sealing of borewells, however, argue that this is not the solution, giving them access to potable water is. In Dwarka, where over 120 wells have been closed and where almost all the 350 cooperative housing societies draw water from borewells, Sudha Sinha, general secretary, Federation of Cooperative Group Housing Societies, said, “We have taken the matter to court. If DJB provides us with adequate supply, why would be require borewells? Besides, when DJB tankers themselves distributed extracted groundwater, what is the point of sealing borewells?”
 
 DJB officials said that water tankers were being sent to areas where borewells have been sealed to meet the water needs of the residents. DJB itself augments its supply for the water-stressed city by extracting 80-90 million gallons of water every day from ground sources. “This constitutes an important chunk of the 913 MGD needed by Delhi. In the summer months we use 4,460 tube wells to meet the additional demand,” explained aDJB official.
 
 Given the dire situation, DJB announced in the 2017-18 Delhi economic survey that it planned to exploit the Yamuna floodplain downstream of Wazirabad and the area adjacent to Najafgarh lake to extract groundwater on a sustainable basis. But with scanty water resources and an increasingly thirsty population, Delhi’s groundwater levels aren’t likely to rise in the future.
 
 
