In the latest episodes of  ,   and   learn that the kingdom is preparing for its king’s birthday. The residents of the kingdom will present fruits, gold ornaments and other valuable items as gift. The carts full of such gifts are kept in front of Parul. 

 Parul finds an idea, she shrinks herself and Raghav with the help of magic and they hide into a cart full of fresh fruits. 
 
  is taking rest in the middle of the deserted place while other giants are looking out for Parul. Mallicka dreams that Parul is trying to punish her for the misdeeds and she is not able to save herself. Worried Mallicka wakes up and realises that it was just a dream. 
 
 The giants return and inform Mallicka that they couldn’t find Parul and Raghav. Mallicka becomes angry. She gets to know about the birthday of the king of giant’s kingdom. She reveals that king   is her father. But he is angry with her since she fell in love with a human and eventually got married. Since then the king has barred her from entering the kingdom. She requests the other giants to take her to the kingdom. 
 
 Parul and Raghav are hiding in the cart. Suddenly they spot that a giant bird is coming towards them. They get worried that it would kill them. They distract it.
 
 The giants start their journey along with Mallicka. She is happy to go back to the kingdom and meet her father. Suddenly they sense an earthquake. They realise that someone is snoring which is causing this earthquake.
 
 They find out Parbatrakshak is sleeping. Mallicka gets furious because Parbatrakshak supposed to keep the entrance of the kingdom secured. The giants try to wake him up but they fail.
 
 Mallicka realises that Parul might have done this to Parbatrakshak. In the giant’s kingdom, the residents are excited for the special function planned for king’s birthday. King Hirimbamalla arrives and addresses the giants. He shares his plan to spread the kingdom. 
 
 Two giants employed at king’s service start moving the cart towards palace. Parul and Raghav are hiding inside it. Suddenly a child asks for a fruit. But the guards mock him. Parul and Raghav feel bad for the child and throw a fruit. The child becomes happy.
 
 The giants are happily celebrating the birthday at palace. The servants keep the cart full of fruits at royal kitchen. Parul and Raghav almost get caught as one of the servants intends to pick up the fruits. They talk about an old giant living at the palace. They discuss that he is very angry.
 
 Parul realises that they are talking about Gombhangani Buri’s father. She informs Raghav that Gombhangani Buri is the sister of Hirimbamalla. The evil giant Hirimbamalla had thrown away Gombhangani Buri and her younger sister from the kingdom.
 
 Mallicka arrives at the palace. She gets emotional meeting her father after a long time. The king introduces her to the giants who are present at the ceremony. He also declares that Mallicka will become the queen after him. 
 
 The other giants seem to be unhappy with the decision as Mallicka is not a complete giant. Moreover she has lived with her husband who is a human. She smells like a human too. Mallicka gets furious. She decides to kill Parul after which she will become a complete giant. 
 
 Parul and Raghav hide in another plate which is being carried by the servants. They come to know of Mallicka’s arrival. 
 
