JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court on Monday directed the   (JDA) to remove all encroachments on the 322-bigha Central Park in the heart of the city and file a compliance report within eight weeks. This includes 1.10 bigha of land (kasra no. 115 which housed the old Census office) in possession of the star hotel,   Pvt Ltd, encroachments in the Central Park area opposite the chief secretary’s official residence on Tonk Road, and some religious structures.

 The court also imposed a cost of Rs 5 lakh on Rambagh Palace Pvt Ltd owner,  , for moving an amendment to the writ petition, 14 years after challenging the acquisition of over one bigha of land in possession of the hotel, in the light of the new land acquisition law. The division bench of Justice K S Jhaveri and Justice V K Vyas dismissed all petitions challenging the land acquisition. The court was hearing a PIL by Yogesh Yadav as well as four other writ petitions. 
  
 
 
 The four writ petitions included one by late Rajmata Gayatri Devi; her stepson Prithvi Singh; Abdul Gafar, who has allegedly encroached on a portion of the park opposite chief secretary’s residence on Tonk Road; and one by Vijay Laxmi of Gandhi Gragh Nirman Sahakari Samiti. “All these writ petitions stand dismissed,” ordered the court on Monday.
 
 Ranveer Singh, counsel for the Rambagh Palce Hotel Pvt Ltd, said, “Out of the 1.10 bigha of land in question, 6 biswas was already given for a road before acquisition.” So the land in question is only 1.4 bigha. He argued that the then Urban Improvement Trust (UIT) gave the compensation to a third party, SMS Development Corporation, instead of the original owner,  
 
 
  He argued that the in the master plan too, the said land was earmarked as that of Rambagh Palace Pvt Ltd and not of JDA.
 
 Prithvi Singh had moved an application in the court seeking an amendment to his earlier petition, arguing that the JDA, which had acquired over one-bigha 10-biswa land adjoining the Rambagh Palace hotel, had neither taken possession of the land nor paid any compensation for it.
 
 He argued that according to the provisions of the Section 24 of the new land acquisition law, the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (Land Acquisition Act, 2013), the acquisition had lapsed.
 
 This was opposed by  , who appeared for JDA as a special counsel. He argued that it was an attempt by the petitioners to scuttle the due process of law. He argued that the Supreme Court had ordered the removal of encroachments on three occasions earlier, but, so far, has not been successful. The court then imposed a cost of Rs 5 lakh, saying it would be used for the development of the park.
 
