NAGPUR: Even as the issue of pesticide inhalation deaths dog   government, Punjab has come up with a ban on monocrotophos as well as 19 other pesticides. As a state can impose ban on a pesticide for not more than 60 days, in Punjab orders to stop issuing fresh licences as well as renewal have been issued. 

 Accidental inhalation of pesticides led to 52 deaths in Vidarbha between July to September last year. It was found that majority of the victims had used monocrotophos either purely or mixed with some other pesticide. Even Maharashtra government had gone for a 60-day ban after the deaths. This is because complete ban can be imposed only by the central government. A special investigation team (SIT), formed to probe the  , has also recommended to ban the molecule in Maharashtra.
 
 Sources in the agriculture department here say that the 60-day ban is over and there are no further curbs in Maharashtra not even on the licences. 
 
 Meanwhile, the special secretary (agriculture) in Punjab has written to the agriculture commissioner there that the use of 20 pesticides, including monocrotophos, has been discontinued. The commissioner’s office has also been directed to review all the licenses given for sale of the 20 pesticides and also not to issue any fresh licences as well.
 
 Talking to TOI, the special secretary in Punjab Vikas Garg said primarily the ban has been imposed for 60 days. However, apart from it fresh licences will not be issued and the existing ones not renewed on expiry as well. The move is on the basis of recommendations by Punjab Agricultural University and state farmers’ commission.
 
 Soon after deaths due to pesticide inhalation, Maharashtra government had imposed a ban on five chemicals including monocrotophos. Sources in the state government say at present there is no ban on the pesticides like monocrotophos. “There is no curb on renewal or granting of licences in Maharashtra,” said an official in state’s agriculture department.
 
 Kavitha Kuruganthi, an activist from   (ASHA), says Maharashtra government can take cue from Punjab. “If a state cannot ban a pesticide for more than 60 days, Punjab has still found a way by stopping fresh licences. Even Maharashtra can issue similar orders.” She was a part of an independent fact-finding team that probed the inhalation deaths.
 
 “Officially there is no restriction in securing a licence. However, the government officials are wary in granting one. The overall sentiment has also paved way for corruption in the process,” said a dealer in Vidarbha requesting anonymity.
 
 Reacting to the development, Crop Life, the association of pesticide-makers, said, “The Anupam Verma Committee formed to review use of pesticides has recommended phasing out of 17 molecules termed hazardous under   (WHO) standards. However, the central government has only issued a draft notification on the ban. The Punjab government’s directions include several products which are not in the phase out list and hence against the law.”
 
 “The state government can ban a product under an emergency situation only for a limited period of 60 days. Beyond that, a ban has to be notified by the  ,” reads a statement issued by Crop Life. 
 
 
