MYSURU: At a memorial event at Halahalli in   on Monday where the contributions of the late minister and her husband   were remembered, minister for sugar and small-scale industries MC   sounded the poll bugle.

 It was, what could be described as a ‘soft launch’ of her campaign at her husband’s native village. In the meanwhile, Mohan Kumari has been making regular tours of the constituency.
 
 The event held on Monday was attended by seers from Lingayat mutts, family members and senior   leaders including chief minister  .
 
 A Lingayat leader, Mohan Kumari is a first-time MLA who was elected from Gundlupet last year. The launch of her campaign to retain her seat comes amid speculations of her son Ganesh Prasad eyeing a ticket. However, the sight of the united family at the memorial event where Mohan Kumari announced her intention, had sent a strong message.
 
 Recollecting his long association with Mahadeva Prasad, Siddaramaiah said, “He was loyal and disciplined. These characteristics prompted me to entrust him with major assignments. Although he was the district in-charge minister for  , whenever I wanted some work done in Mysuru, I would ask him to shoulder the responsibility.”
 
 The CM launched the book, ‘Mahaprasad’ that lists the accomplishments of the late minister.
 
 Public works minister HC Mahadevappa, junior pontiff of the Siddaganga Mutt Siddalinga Swami, Mummadi Nirvana Swami of Kanakapura Degula Mutt and Chamarajanagar MP R Dhruvanarayana were present at the event.
 
  ‘I want to live to be a 100’
 
 Siddaramaiah, who turned 70 last year, expressed his desire to live to be a 100 years old. “I have decided to live till I turn 100. I want to follow the principles of the revolutionary leader Basavanna, and focus on work till the end,” said Siddaramaiah, dismissing the notions of heaven and hell, and reincarnation, which he dubbed ‘superstitious beliefs’. “I believe in the maxim, ‘Kayakave Kailasa (work is worship) preached in the Sharanas,” said the CM. In a veiled jibe aimed at BJP state president BS Yeddyurappa, Siddaramaiah said, “Leaders who claim to follow the philosophy of Basavanna are not fighting superstitious beliefs.”
 
 
