AMBALA: Sachin Gondi,   bank co-manager who recently swiped around Rs 2.5 crore from accounts of dozens of customers after faking their signatures, has now been booked at the Naraingarh police station on the complaint of a customer named  . Police have also booked some other people, whose involvement is suspected in the case.

 Ram Avtar in his complaint stated that the accused Sachin has cheated him after withdrawing Rs 19 lakh from his minor child’s account. Ram said he opened his children’s account in the Naraingarh HDFC bank and Sachin used to take care of these accounts. Ram alleged that currently there are 12 others who have been victimised in a similar manner and more cases would come to the fore after Sachin is arrested. Ram added that Sachin had earlier threatened them by saying that he would falsely implicate them in his suicide case by leaving behind a note with their names in it if they don’t stop enquiring further about their missing money.
 
 Naraingarh police station SHO Suresh Kumar said, “We suspect the involvement of some others too . So far we have not arrested anybody. Our team is already working on this case and soon we will arrest the accused and others involved with him.”
 
 Police have registered a case against Sachin and other suspects under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly including delivery of property), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 120B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 In the month of April, Sachin went to Ram Avtar’s house to inform that there is only one account of a major in the bank with the name of   and other five accounts are that of minors. The minor accounts are seized as Ram’s children have passed the age of 18 years. Sachin told Ram that new accounts needed to be opened in the name of the children whose accounts had been seized and for that he demanded the passbooks and chequebooks related to that of the minor accounts. Ram was told that the existing amount in the said accounts will be returned to him after depositing the same in a fixed deposit account. Entrusting Sachin, Ram handed over the required documents to him. Later after some days when Ram visited the bank to enquire about the fixed deposits, Sachin started ignoring him and asked him to visit later.
 
 On May 2, Sachin went to the bank but he not return home on the same day. On May 3, Sachin’s wife submitted a missing complaint with the Naraingarh police. Police while tracing Sachin found his last mobile phone location at Morni and later on the night of May 3 he was found at   railway station sitting in a daze. Police recorded his statements then.
 
 
