KOLKATA: KKR fans thronged   Gardens on Tuesday and cheered their lungs out for the home team when it needed them the most: a must-win match that could have facilitated their march to a play-off against a revamped  , who were on a high after a hat trick.

 “I hadn’t come to the stadium for any of the matches this season. But I am here today as I realised this was the time when a true fan must show up to be by the side of the team. This was a do-or-die match for the Kolkata team to keep their hopes alive in the play-off,” said Animesh Ghosh, a second-year Bcom student and an avid fan. Like Animesh, software engineer Rishwav Dasgupta, too, made it to the ground on Tuesday evening, after rushing out of his Sector V office two hours early than usual. “Although I had tickets, I could not manage to come to the ground on other days because of work. But this being a do-ordie match and the last home match in the group league stage, I managed a ticket from a friend and somehow reached the ground just on time,” said Dasgupta, a resident of Behala.
 
  
 Prior to the match, the teams from Kolkata and Rajathan were evenly placed at 12 points each, from 12 games. Both had an early slump but had come back strongly in the last few matches, with Kolkata crushing the   team by scoring the fourth highest total of   and the team from Rajasthan riding three back-toback wins, all of them courtesy three brilliant knocks by the English international,  .
 
 “I knew it would be a cracker of a match, which I could not afford to miss at any cost. Hence, I travelled all the way from Malda just for this one,” said Joydeb Sarkar, an English Honours student, who plans to sleep at the Howrah station waiting room on Tuesday night before heading back home by the morning train.
 
 The game had a thrilling start with Rajasthan openers dominating over the KKR bowlers, almost silencing the crowd. But the indomitable fans cheered the home team back into the game as Kolkata team continued taking wickets in quick succession, reining in the visitors to a modest score.
 
 
