MUZAFFARNAGAR: Mumbai-based lyricist A M Turaz who has penned four songs for director Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s most controversial venture ‘Padmaavat’ said he fails to understand why the ensuing violence and protests by various fringe groups have swelled across the country even though the film only celebrates Rajput valour and honour. In an exclusive chat with TOI over phone, Muzaffarnagar native Turaz said, “Now, only if God comes down and convinces the protesters, will they perhaps understand.”

  Padmaavat marks the third collaboration between Bhansali and 36-year-old Turaz. He has worked with Bhansali in his other blockbusters such as ‘Guzaarish’ and ‘Bajirao Mastani’. Among Turaz’s compositions is also the popular   song.
 
  “From the   to media, everyone is positive about the film and yet protests have continued which is not good. A lot of hard work has gone into making this film. It is really painful to see the way a particular section is so vehemently opposing it for no rhyme or reason,” added the composer. 
 
  The period drama has been in the eye of a storm since its inception. The film crew has been attacked, sets vandalized and fringe groups have also threatened to behead the director and actor  , who plays the Rajput queen   in the movie. Violent mobs have rampaged through various cities in a last-ditch effort to stop the movie screening.
 
  “Everyone who has watched the movie said there was nothing wrong in it. Only those protesting against it are wrong. I spent a year researching before sitting down to write the songs,” he added.
 
  In Ghoomar, Turaz has delicately smattered Rajasthani amid Hindi lyrics which have received admiration from audience across several quarters. Administrations in   and   have, however, banned playing of the song in cultural programmes. “I am baffled. How can a song upset people when it does not have anything vulgar in it?” asked Turaz.
 
  On Wednesday, Chandra Cinema in Muzaffarnagar had an advanced screening of the film but decided against it on the day of its release, on Thursday, fearing protests. “We were instructed not to have any more screenings of the movie fearing safety of audience,” said Asif Ahmed, manager of Chandra Cinema.
