MALLIAN (BARNALA): A quarter century after the death of the first Sikh recipient of   (PVC) Subedar Major (Honorary Captain)  , his native Mallian village has lost has lost the only memorial built in his name – a bus shelter just outside the village. The   (NHAI) decided to bring it down to widen the Moga-Barnala stretch of the national highway.

 Karam Singh’s achievements are considered special also because he received the Military Medal for showing exemplary courage in World War II in 1944.
 
 NHAI has declined to rebuild the bus shelter which has left the villagers fuming. They say that the Punjab government had promised to rebuild the memorial or name a school after the soldier but has done neither.
 
 The bus shelter was built during the decorated soldier’s lifetime after getting a grant of Rs 88,000 from the Union government in the early 1990s. “The only structure in the name of one of India’s bravest soldiers has been demolished and no one seems to care. We want it to be rebuilt but the authorities have declined to do so,” said Captain Karam’s son Harjit Singh.
 
 Mallian sarpanch Gurmail Singh said, “I have raised the issue with NHAI officials and the district administration. We wanted another memorial in the name of the decorated soldier in the village or the district but that too has not been accepted. We are very upset.”
 
 NHAI executive engineer (XEN)   said, “The bus shelter had to be demolished for widening of the highway. There is no proposal to build it again. If the government or district administration sends a proposal, it could be looked into.”
 
 True braveheart
 
 Born on September 15, 1915, Karam Singh had joined the 1 Sikh Regiment exactly 26 later on September 15, 1941. He took part in the Burma Campaign in World War II and was awarded the Military Medal for his courageous act. In 1947-48, he fought against Pakistan in   sector in Jammu and Kashmir. On October 13, 1948, despite being wounded, Karam, then a Lance Naik, evicted the enemy from the area. He was the first Sikh to receive the PVC and only the second Indian soldier to receive the honour in his lifetime. He passed away on January 20, 1993.
 
 
