

 Located on Goa’s border with Karnataka,   is a big draw for nature lovers and is home to some breathtaking flora and fauna.
 
 Molem houses parts of biodiversity zones of the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Molem National Park. The   also lies along the NH 4A, which connects Goa to Belagavi, Karnataka, and is blessed with the Ragada, a tributary of the Mandovi river as well as the Chimtevall, a tributary of the Khandepar river.
 
 Molem is located 58.2km via NH748 from Panaji and 45.6km via NH748 from Margao. It is bordered by the village of Anmod, Karnataka, on its eastern side and in Goa by the villages of Kirpal, Dabal in the west, Collem in the south, and Sancordem and Tambdi Surla in the north.
 
 “An adjoining hamlet called Sangod is part of the Molem village panchayat. Molem lies in the centre of   taluka,” says Apa Gaonkar of Zorivaddo.
 
 Molem has traditional village wards such as Zambolim, Nandral, Satpal, Gauliwada, Bazar, Zorivaddo, Zorishet, Duklam, Bondumol, Casaulim, Borkottem, Palaskta, Suktolim, Devgal, Makdiem, Kajumol, Perimol, Dhat, Vodomol, Khutimol, Bhagatamol, Maisal, etc. Mollem’s area spans 23.5 sqkm.
 
 Makdiem, a part of Sangod, has many interesting sites. “Development of the area around the Ganesha rock carving, will attract students interested in cultural and spiritual tourism,” says Mangaldas Gaonkar, a local resident. Youngsters, both boys and girls, from Molem have carved out a niche for themselves in the sport called ‘Tchokball’. Babli Paryekar, Sanjay Paryekar, Ketan Mauskar, Devan Kudalkar and Harish Gaonkar represented India’s U-19 team.
 
 Molem's Mahesh Bilunga captained the India team before taking over as its coach. In the girls’ category, Pratiksha Sangodkar led the Indian team, while Sunilata Gaonkar has represented India. “Molem’s youngsters are bringing laurels, both to Goa and India,” says Ramnath Gajanan Gawde of Bazar Vaddo.
 
 Residents Speak
 
 Molem has a rich history. It is home to over 500 medicinal plants, exotic wildlife, perennial water sources, revered places of worship, striking forests and a busy border checkpost. In terms of agriculture, its land is rich and fertile for growing ‘nachne’ (ragi), paddy, cashew and arecanut.
 
 Ramnath Gajanan Gawde | resident
 
 Establishment of reputed centres connected to temples of higher academic learning and research and creation of hubs connected with both genres of classical music, Indian and western, will go a long way in providing a permanent, clean and environment-friendly alternative development model not only to Molem, but also entire Goa.
 
 Sushant Shashikant Bhagat | deputy sarpanch
 
 Sarpanch’s take
 
 As mining activity has stopped, unemployment is a big problem. Almost 80% of the jobs in the jurisdiction of the panchayat were dependent on mining. Molem is blessed with natural beauty and the need of the hour for the state government is to create jobs in sync with its environment. The bailey bridge to reach Dudhsagar waterfall is located in Molem. Local residents must be given exclusive responsibility to operate transport for tourists visiting the waterfall for five months, from June to October every year.
 
 Tanavi Gurudas Kerkar
 
 Heritage Trail/Landmarks
 
 Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary: The largest wildlife reserve in Goa is noted for its vast range of plant, bird and animal life. 
 
 Mahadev Temple, Makdiem: Constructed in the 1830s and renovated in 2002, it is the oldest temple in the village.
 
 Our Lady of Assumption Chapel: Located at Casaulim, this place of worship is locally referred to as ‘Assumpta Saibinichem Copel’ and it is over 100 years old.
 
 Government Primary School: The Marathi-medium school caters to 60 students. Abhinav Vidyamandir high school, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Higher Secondary School, etc, are the other educational centres in Molem.
 
 St Isidore Chapel: Situated at Bazarvaddo, devotion began at the site when villagers erected a cross here. It was elevated to the status of a chapel a decade ago. Both, the Our Lady of Assumption Chapel and St Isidore Chapel are affiliated to Our Lady of Piety Church, Colem.
 
 Rock carving of Lord Ganesha: Around 80 years ago, the figure of Lord Ganesha was detected by local residents at Makdiem. Villagers say that the etching on the stone gets more prominent as the years go by.
 
 Malaria Post: Before 1961, when Goa was a separate territory from India, this office screened all persons entering Goa to check if they were afflicted with malaria. If any person tested positive, he or she was not allowed entry into Goa.
 
 Talli (lake) at Mahadev Temple, Bondumol: This water body was developed a decade ago. It is used for purification before entering the sacred precincts of the Mahadev temple and for irrigating agricultural fields in Bondumol and Zorivaddo.
 
 Suktolim Zor: This water source at Suktolim, Sangod, was repaired in 2016. This spot is popular for bathing and picnicking during summer.
 
 Forest Education Centre: An important site in the precincts of Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary for research on flora and fauna of the wildlife reserve, its library is popular with forest researchers.
 
 RENOWNED RESIDENTS
 
 Mangaldas Gaonkar: Second sarpanch of Molem and village chronicler
 
 Dr Dheeraj Lambor: ENT specialist at Goa Medical College (GMC)
 
 Dr Jano Zore: Lecturer at department of biochemistry, GMC
 
 Krishna Chandrakant Suzre: Aeronautical engineer, Chennai
 
 Apa Gaonkar: Producer, director, playwright, actor in several ‘nataks’ (Marathi plays) and recipient of Natya Tapsvi national award in 2006
 
 Ramnath Gajanan Gawde: Konkani writer and poet.He has written several books over the last 28 years and has received awards from leading literary institutions including Sahitya Akademi (New Delhi), Kala Academy, Konkani Bhasha Mandal, Goa Konkani Academy (twice), Curchorem Konkani Kendra, etc
 
 Tanavi Gurudas Kerkar: Elected in June 2017, she is the youngest sarpanch. Tanavi was just 21 years old when she took over as village head
 
 Vaishali Khandeparkar: Headmistress at Gomantak Vidyalaya High School, Piliem, Dharbandora
 
 Govind Gaunkar: Zilla panchayat member and ex-sarpanch
 
 Rama Krishna Gaonkar: Ex-sarpanch and current panchayat member
 
 Samar Nagesh Kadam: Social worker and current panchayat member
 
 Babu Shelke: Social worker and panchayat member
 
 
