LUCKNOW: The 'Brahmastra' of   government in UP to tackle the SP-BSP alliance is a take-off from the three-layer 'quota-within-quota' formula suggested by  , when he was the chief minister in 2001. 

 The formula drastically cuts the share of powerful Yadavs - traditionally SP voters - and limits it to just 5% while giving a much bigger reservation pie to non-Yadav OBCs, many of which have gravitated towards the saffron party.
 
 After a state-wide survey in 2001, the social justice committee constituted by the then CM Rajnath Singh had come out with statistics which claiming that in police recruitments between 1994 and 96, 66.58% of jobs were given to only one caste (Yadavs). 
 
 During the same period, out of 6,984 appointments in  , 3,695 were from OBCs, out of which 2,472 went to Yadavs. "This has happened in other state services and educational institutions also," the report claimed.
 
 The committee, headed cabinet minister  , expressed its concern over the fact that just one caste gobbled up most of benefits of reservation. 
 
 It also said that it all happened because the ruling party during the above period was headed by the same caste.
 
  "This practice must be stopped with immediate effect as other backward castes are left with just crumbs," the report concluded.
 
 In order to bring an end to this Yadav monopoly in quota, the committee recommended classification of backward castes into three categories - 'A' with Yadavs with 5% share and 'B' with eight other backward castes with 9% share. The remaining 70 most backward castes were proposed to get 14% share on the basis of their representation in government services, education and economic status. The formula would have hit the Yadavs the hardest. 
 
 They used to get a lion's share of 27% quota earmarked for OBCs, but this formula would have limited them to just 5%.
 
 The three-member social justice committee submitted its report to the state government for its implementation, but before Rajnath Singh could act on it, BJP lost the elections and after a brief period of President's Rule and BJP-BSP coalition government, SP came to power in 2003. 
 
 Later, high court also stayed its implementation.
 
 The panel's recommendation was also based on the population - Yadav's share in total   population was 19.4% and eight other backward castes, including Kurmis, Lodhs, Jats and Gujjars constituted 18.9% while the remaining 70 backward castes accounted for 61.69%.
 
 Politically, it was a very clever move by Rajnath Singh having far reaching consequences.
 
  "Probably he had recognised that in case of SP and BSP coming together, BJP had very small suport base in form of upper castes. That's why he tries to woo non-Yadav backwards by giving them a bigger share in the quota pie. The present government is following the same template,"said an analysts.
 
 
