MUMBAI: Men can revel in their bearded glory. Beard-care is close to a Rs 100-crore market today, reckon industry experts. With film stars and cricketers sporting beards, the trend has sustained its growth momentum over the last couple of years.

 What initially appeared to be a temporary fad, has expanded to smaller towns and is seeing a good response from tier II and tier III cities. Bolstering growth of this segment are sustained marketing efforts by various players. From music videos like ‘Such a beardo’ becoming an anthem to companies hosting ‘beardo-thons’, and other consistent activities to engage bearded consumers through beard clubs — sporting a beard has now become a secular trend. 
 
 When asked if the   growth has peaked after its initial period of gains,   founder Ashutosh Valani said, “It’s nowhere near its peak. The market is growing, and will grow further at least for the next five years. As of now, beards are not just a fashion statement but part of a lifestyle, just like shaving was in the ’90s. From literally a no-market to close to a Rs 100-crore in a matter of two-three years proves that it’s not only the beard, it’s the overall acceptance of men to groom themselves, that has grown.”
 
  
  
 
 Before launching Beardo, two years earlier, Valani realised that India needed an all-male brand that consumers could relate to. Around this time, keeping a beard was slowly catching up as a trend internationally. Beardo saw a huge opportunity in the market as no other company was catering to this niche segment. The male grooming industry had already been established by then and is today said to be outpacing the growth in personal-care market in India. If rising disposable incomes of the middle class provided the headwinds, increased focus on looks and appearances by urban Indian consumers buoyed male grooming to become a Rs 5,000-crore market. Male grooming has increased by 42 per cent in the last five years.
 
 Looking at the growth opportunity, Marico acquired a 45 per cent stake in Zed Lifestyle, which houses Beardo.   too invested in   to cater to the head-to-toe premium men’s grooming products, which include beard management.
 
 Emami director Harsha V Agarwal said, “Today’s men are highly conscious of how they present themselves and want to appear well groomed. The entire category, particularly face care, hair care and body odour segment, has a lot of scope for penetration with a gamut of products that may cater to all these needs. Men are no longer satisfied by using women’s or unisex products like earlier. They want products that cater to their specific needs meant only for men.”
 
 While Beardo started off with only  , it has since expanded its beard grooming range to include beard washes, hair and beard wax,   and hair serum. It plans to launch beard and face wipes as well.
 
 With beard-keeping becoming a trend, beard colouring too got a boost.   beard colour grew at 40 per cent in calendar year 2017 and is expecting to clock 50 per cent growth this year. Arnab Banerjee, sales and marketing head, JL Morison India, which markets Bigen, said, “Beard care is a trend, which is not restricted to urban metros alone. It has penetrated the semi-urban markets, having a population of 10 lakh, as well. It is also visible in district headquarters with a little over 1-5 lakh population.”
 
 Considering that consumers in these markets may not readily purchase a Rs 500-pack of beard care products, Banerjee said entry level packs, priced at Rs 50 or Rs 100, can drive consumption in semi-urban and rural markets. “This would be a logical extension of marketing strategy that players are expected to adopt. Going for introductory packs is expected to be a big trend in the beard-care market. This will take the category to the next level,” said Banerjee.
 
 Beardo, which has a highly premium and 24-karat beard gold oil, priced at Rs 2,500, recently introduced   at Rs 250 for the cost-conscious consumer. It, however, has no plans for launching products at a more affordable Rs 100 price point.
 
 As for Bigen, at present, the brand will focus on unlocking urban market growth, where penetration is low. But rural is definitely a strategy JL Morison would study. The same holds true for other players as well, given the rate at which men across the population strata are going all out with unshaven looks.
 
 
