JAIPUR: The   (GAD) of Rajasthan government has issued an order regarding announcing  , which falls on April 18, as public holiday. Earlier, the occasion was marked as optional holiday in the state’s official calendar.

 In a statement issued by the CMO, chief minister Vasundhara Raje said that a public holiday would be declared every year on the occasion of Parshuram Jayanti. “For a very long time, Brahmin organizations had been demanding a public holiday on Parshuram Jayanti. Respecting the sentiments of the community, chief minister directed the officials to declare public holidays on Parshuram Jayanti,” the statement said.
 
 The move is seen as an attempt to woo the Brahmin community in the state, which is believed to be upset with the ruling party. The BJP hopes to retain its traditional vote bank with the latest order.
 
 The order, issued by the GAD on its website on Wednesday stated that amendment has been brought to make Parshuram Jayanti, scheduled as an “optional leave” to a “public holiday” across the state.
 
 Sources told TOI that several Brahmin outfits had been demanding public holiday on the occasion of Parshuram Jayanti for past many years.
 
 Sarv  , also issued a statement hailing the chief minister’s decision. “The   had been requesting the government to grant a public holiday on Parshuram Jayanti. We are happy that the government has finally agreed to our demand, we also want to thank other communities who helped us in making it possible,” the statement read.
 
 Brahmin outfits said that Parusharam is revered by the community, BJP leader and cabinet minister   said that Parshuram stood for the rights of downtrodden and justice. “I want to thank chief minister for declaring public holiday on April 18. Rishi Parshuram stood for justice and its proud moment for everybody,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, several community based organization have reportedly planned celebrations on the occasion for the Parushram Jayanti in the state on April 18, prompting police to keep an eye on rallies and processions. “All elements that can ferment tension are under our radar. There have been some violent incidents this month but we are prepared for everything,” an official told TOI.
 
 
