CHANDIGARH: The district consumer disputes redressal forum directed   bank to pay the maturity value of eight bonds amounting to Rs 8 lakh along with interest as applicable to the savings   account with effect from March 31, 2017 till realisation. The bank was also asked to pay Rs 40,000 as compensation for deficiency in service and mental agony and harassment caused to the Mohali-based complainants by the bank’s refusal to pay the maturity amount.

 In their complaint, Prit Pal Kaur, 66, and her son Sukhjit Singh said they purchased eight deep discount bonds in their name from the bank in Sector 8, Madhya Marg. They said the bank promised to pay Rs 1 lakh for each bond at the end of 25 years, on March 31, 2017, as printed on the bond certificate.
 
 The complainants submitted the bonds to the bank for encashment on maturity after 25 years. But on April 20, 2017, they received an e-mail saying the IDBI has invited a call option to all investors by exercising its option to redeem the bonds in 2002. The complainant denied having received such a notice. 
 
 The matter was referred to the Reserve Bank of India and it was then forwarded to the banking ombudsman, who made a report and the claim of the complainant was not acceded to. 
 
 Bank authorities said the bank exercised the option of redemption of bonds after 10 years on March 31, 2002, when the deemed face value of the bond was Rs 12,000, as already referred. In view of financial viabilities, the bank was not able to continue with the scheme, due to which the bonds were redeemed at an early date. All the investors were informed through publication in leading newspapers. The notice was also sent through UPC on the given address.
 
 The forum observed that information was published in the newspaper but there is no evidence on whether it was circulated in the locality where the complainants lived at that point of time in 2002. “The next contention is that the communication was sent through UPC. It has not been explained why it was not sent through registered post so as to have authentic information qua its delivery to the complainant or to say that postal department had obtained its acknowledgement qua delivery to the complainants,” forum held.
 
 The forum also relied on judgments passed by the national commission in similar cases, wherein it was held that the petitioner was not liable to escape liability merely by publishing an advertisement in the newspaper about its intention to exercise its option. 
 
 Therefore, the forum allowed the complaint directing the bank to pay maturity value of the eight bonds amounting to Rs 8 lakh and compensation amounting to Rs 40,000 and Rs 10,000 as litigation charges.
 
 
