NEW DELHI: A   lawyer going to cast her vote in the elections for the Bar Council of Delhi on Saturday was severely injured when she was pulled out of a   autorickshaw while resisting two men who tried to snatch her handbag. 

 After the frightful incident on the Jangpura flyover, the woman is undergoing treatment in a private hospital in the city, having escaped coming under the wheels of an incoming SUV.
 
 It was a second incident of the sort that Sampa Sengupta Roy was experiencing in a month since her phone was snatched while exiting a metro station in central Delhi. On Saturday, Roy was conversing with her husband, Partha, her bag on her lap and its strap around her arm. 
 
 “When we were going down the flyover towards Oberoi Hotel, a bike slowed down alongside. Suddenly, the pillion rider grasped my bag,” Roy narrated from a hospital in Tughlakabad. “Since I held on as he pulled my bag, I fell from the autorickshaw and was dragged by the bike. Then the two men sped away.”
 
 In her statement to police, Roy said that the pillion rider wore a red shirt and black trousers, while his associate had a white shirt on him. “The pillion rider had hair that was coloured golden. He kept shaking his hand vigorously to make me loosen my grip on the bag when they were dragging me,” said Roy.
 
 The lawyer suffered injuries on her face, arms and waist. Her husband thought that when she fell out of the  , she would be crushed under the wheels of a vehicle that was driving behind them. “Fortunately, the driver of the SUV was alert and slammed the brakes in time. I found her lying face down, bleeding from her nose and head,” said Partha.
 
 Police said they were scanning CCTV footage, including one from a police post close to the incident site and suspect the   might have used the Barapullah elevated road to escape. A case of theft with the use of force has been registered. “We have set up several teams to track down the miscreants,” informed a senior police officer on Monday.
 
 Roy, a resident of Guwahati, has been practising in the Supreme Court in the recent past. “My bag contained cash, my new mobile phone and access card to the Supreme Court. This is my biggest concern since the access card is a security document and allows the user to go to areas where only lawyers are allowed,” said Roy.
 
 
