The phrase “love knows no boundaries” got a completely new meaning in   and Sanja Smailagic’s love story. Vernin, a physician from   in France, on Tuesday tied the knot with Sanja, a girl of Bosnian origin, on the terrace of a Lake Road house. 

 Vernin (51), clad in dhoti, panjabi and topor and Sanja (44), decked in a red Benarasi and other paraphernalia of a Bengali bride, could give any local couple a run for their wedding vows.
 
 “I love India, particularly Kolkata, and the culture here,” said Vernin, moments before he got to see Sanja ‘for the first time’ at the biyer mandap. 
 
 Neither of them could figure out why they had been kept in different rooms before the ceremony and barred from seeing each other.
 
 “This is my first trip to India and Kolkata, but I have fallen in love with the place through the stories Vernin has told me of his travels here,” Sanja said. 
 
 There is another Bengali connection in Vernin and Sanja’s love story — the plot of several Bengali movies.
 
 “Sanja visited my clinic with severe cough and cold. That was our first meeting. Instead of prescribing any medicine I told her to have only honey, which infuriated her. She said I was worse than Bosnian doctors,” laughed Vernin. 
 
 But when he received a friendship request from her on Facebook, he knew the remedy had worked. The two became friends but love blossomed only when he told her to watch ‘The Lunchbox’, an Indian movie starring Irrfan Khan and Nimrat Kaur.
 
 “We started talking about movies and my travels to India and we became close. I am planning to buy a lunchbox and I hope she will pack me lunch when I go to the clinic,” Vernin said.
 
 When Vernin told his friends in Kolkata that the couple wanted an Indian wedding, they impressed upon him to go for a Bengali one. Lopamudra Talukdar, Vernin’s friend and host in Kolkata and whose residence was the venue for the marriage, said, “Vernin loves Kolkata. So we wanted this to be a memorable event for him.” Lopamudra and her husband share a passion for photography with Vernin.
 
 The wedding was a simple yet classy affair replete with all Bengali rituals including shubho drishti, uludhwani, shaat pake ghora, malabadal and khoi khela. 
 
 The couple finds Bengali cuisine spicy, but loves posto chingri”. Even the feast was a complete Bengali affair which included bhetki machher paturi, gandharaj chicken, kosha mangsho, chitol machher moitha, baked rossogolla and jolbhora shandesh.
 
 
