Jaipur: The court generally imposes cost on police for tardy investigation. However, for a change, the high court on Friday asked a petitioner to deposit a cost of Rs 25,000 at the police headquarters for filing a frivolous contempt case against the police.

 Additional advocate general B N Sandhu said the high court in April last year had issued notice and asked for an inquiry report along with the opinion of the investigating officer in a police case on a petition filed by one Rajesh Jajoriya of Bhankrota.
 
 After notices were issued, the investigation officer had filed reply in the respective munsif court in compliance of the court order. Thus, no case could be made for flouting the court order.
 
 However, the petitioner filed a contempt petition in the high court complaining that police had not filed any chargesheet. It has come to the notice of the court that the petitioner was aware of the fact that police had already filed the investigation report in the respective munsif court on May 5 last year.
 
 On the basis of the petition, the high court initiated contempt proceedings against the investigating officer.
 
 The court said, “The process of law has been initiated at the behest of the petitioner knowing fully well that the enquiry and investigation has been completed and the final report has been already submitted.”
 
 “This is a gross abuse of the process of law. The petitioner is prima facie found to have initiated frivolous contempt proceedings which have serious consequences,” it said.
 
 The court directed the petitioner to deposit the cost of Rs 25,000 in the office of the police headquarters. 
 
 Notice to complainant against Ramdev
 
 Rajasthan High Court has issued notice to the complainant on a petition by Baba Ramdev (Ram Kishan Yadav) and others seeking quashing of the FIR against them at Jalupura police station in Jaipur under Section 420 (cheating ) and 12B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.
 
 Following a criminal complaint by lawyer S K Singh against Baba Ramdev and others, the additional metropolitan magistrate court had ordered the Jaulupura police to file an FIR a few days back.
 
 Singh alleged that the petitioners said the product, ‘Marie Biscuit’ of Patanjali Ayuved Ltd is of good quality and without ‘maida’. However, when he got the biscuit tested in a laboratory, there was a mismatch between the claim of the producers and actual content. 
 
 Ramdev in the petition said the complaint is very vague. Even if the allegations are true still no offence could be made out against the petitioner under Section 420 and 120B but could be made under the Food Safety Act. The petitioner, thus, pleaded to quash the FIR. 
 
 
