CHENNAI: People in Tamil Nadu would have spent more for their groceries and other essential commodities than most others in the country between April and December 2017, as the inflation rate in the state was higher than the national average. Tamil Nadu’s inflation rate for the first 10 months of this financial year was above 4%, as against the national average of 3.3%, according to the   presented in Parliament on Monday. 

 However, Tamil Nadu was not alone and it had four other states - Kerala, Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh reporting higher inflation than national average. Overall, the survey said inflation had fallen under the consumer price index in most states, except these five, when compared to the previous year. 
 
 “Many States witnessed sharp fall in inflation between April and December in 2017-18 and inflation in 17 states was below 4%. But, the five states mentioned above recorded inflation of more than 4%, as against 19 states with inflation over 4% in 2016-17,” said the survey. Tamil Nadu’s inflation rate is higher in 2017-18, compared to even the previous year when the state faced a historic drought. 
 
 “The main reason for high inflation in Tamil Nadu was the high prices of cereals, pulses, vegetables and fruits, as it ruled over the roof in both urban and rural areas,” said economist Venkatesh Athreya. 
 
 He also blamed the political uncertainty in Tamil Nadu for the high prices. “A few years back when the prices of food articles went up, former chief minister   opened shops to sell vegetables at a lower price to check inflation. No such step was taken in recent times,” Athreya said. 
 
 The state is emerging out of the drought effect of previous year due to better south-west and north-east monsoons. “2017 was a better year for agriculture in the state and there is hope that the prices of food articles will come down soon, he said. 
 
 The survey offered differing reasons for higher inflation in rural and urban areas. “While food was the main driver of inflation in 2016-17 (Apr- Dec) in rural and urban areas, in the current year, housing has also received a good weightage for inflation in urban areas,” said the survey. “Increasing rents are a reason for higher inflation in states like urban Tamil Nadu. Across all cities and towns, monthly rents have increased as the demand for houses went up, mainly due to migrants,” said a real estate expert. 
 
 eom 
 
 
