HASSAN: Five persons died on the spot and two others succumbed to injuries when a   toppled into a ditch near Karekere Agriculture College, about 19kms from Hassan, around 3.30am Saturday on National Highway 75. 

  Passengers who sustained serious injuries got medical attention only 20 minutes after the accident due to thick fog in the area. The accident came to light only when a few injured passengers who got down from the bus climbed out the ditch and stopped vehicles passing by. A KSRTC bus driver alerted his senior authorities and police. 
 
  According to KSRTC sources, Volvo bus KA01, F 8513 left Bengaluru at 11.45pm on Friday with 45 passengers on board. Around 3.30 am, it toppled off the road near Karakere. The deceased are bus driver Shivappa Chalavadi (45), a resident of Basavanabagevadi, driver-cum-conductor Laxmana (48), a resident of Raichur, Dayana (20), a resident of Gandibagilu, Belthangady, two members of a family from the same village   (26) and   (28), Rakesh Prabhu (26), a resident of Kanyadi II, Dharmasthala and Gangadhar (58), a resident of Bengaluru. 
 
 According to KSRTC sources, the bus was scheduled to reach Dharmasthala at 6am. It had stopped near Kunigal around 1am for 5 minutes. Passengers said the bus stopped twice for a tea break. 
 
  Delay in relief work 
 
  According to passengers, thick fog caused some delay in rushing relief to the spot. 
 
  Vinay, an injured passenger and a resident of   said, 
 
 "No driver bothered to stop even though our bodies were soaked in blood. A KSRTC bus driver who saw us stopped the bus and come to our rescue. He immediately alerted police and KSRTC officers who sent six ambulances."
 
 According to KSRTC, four passengers who sustained serious injuries were rushed to Bengaluru for treatment. As per the Vehicle Traffic Management Data (VTMS), the bus was travelling at 59kmph at the time of the accident. Driver Shivappa Chalavadi, who had been with the KSRTC for the past nine years, had no record of past accidents. 
 
 Transport minister H M Revanna announced Rs 3 lakh compensation to kin of the deceased and said the government would bear the medical expenses of all injured passengers.
 
 
