CHENNAI: More than one lakh transport workers did not receive a quarter of their monthly salaries for participating in a strike demanding better wages earlier this month.

 The state government has deducted Rs 9,000- Rs 15,000 from its employees for being absent from work for a period of seven days due to the protests. This amounts to a total of nearly Rs 130 crore. Besides this, in an unprecedented move, conditional retirement orders were issued to 200 employees who retired on Wednesday. 
 
 They will not be eligible to get retirement benefits and one-fourth of their monthly pensions till charges framed against them for participating in the protests are cleared. 
 
 “Regular expenditure of workers will be hit. Most of them have pending bank loans worth Rs 3- Rs 4 lakhs and with this deduction, they will be left with only Rs 4,000- Rs 5,000 this month for all expenses including groceries and bills,” said K Arumugam Nainar from the CITU-affiliated state transport union. Of the 1.4 lakh employees working with eight state transport corporations, more than 1.1 lakh workers abstained from work on January 5 after wage revision talks between the government and transport workers' unions failed.
 
 More than 70% of government buses went off the roads for nearly seven days as the government was not ready to accept the unions' demand of increasing the workers'   by 2.57 multiplication factor. Besides this, the unions wanted the corporations to release pending dues worth thousands of crores to retired employees. 
 
 During the strike period, the transport department issued a notice to all protesting employees to get back to work failing which their salaries would be deducted and disciplinary action would be initiated against them. 
 
 However, the protests continued until January 12. The Madras high court referred the wage dispute to arbitration and the unions accepted wage revision by 2.44 multiplication factor as interim relief.
 
 In the past, the government has fined only those who damaged public properties during protests and others were let off with a warning or cut in number of leaves granted. But this time, the government has stuck to its ‘no work no pay’ policy, said D Mohan, an employee.
 
 
