NEW DELHI: In the latest incident involving Pratt & Whitney (PW) engines for the Airbus A320 Neo, one of them was reported to be "sluggish" when the aircraft needed it to rev to veer away from another plane dangerously close to it. The planes flew safely away from each other, but the pilot filed a report about this alleged under-performance and the Indian aviation regulator is probing it.

 
 The incident happened on Monday afternoon when IndiGo's 6E 6488 (VT-IGK) was flying from Kolkata to Delhi and GoAir G8 585 was on its way from Mumbai to Patna. While the GoAir A320 new engine option (Neo, VTWGE) was descending from 37,000 feet to 33,000 feet and IndiGo's A320 (not a Neo) was at 36,000 feet in Varanasi airspace, the two planes breached minimum separation and came uncomfortably close.
 
 Modern aircraft have traffic collision avoidance systems ( ) equipment that issue two types of advisories to pilots: traffic advisories (TAs) and resolution advisories (RAs). In the first step, a TA is issued to give an advance warning to crew of two planes that they are headed in the same direction. In the second stage, RA asks crew to take evasive action to avoid mid-air collisions.
 
 IndiGo confirmed the RA going off in its aircraft. "IndiGo confirms the TCAS-RA on flight 6E-6488 (Kolkata-Delhi) on April 23. Matter has been brought to the notice of the regulator and it is being investigated. As an airline, we rely upon the air traffic control's traffic advisory and comply with their instructions. Safety is our highest priority," said an IndiGo spokesperson.
 
 
  
 
 While RA requires two planes flying towards each other to tear apart, the Go-Air pilots reportedly found that their Neo "engine rev up at that altitude and speed was very sluggish (Pratt & Whitney)". The   has been informed and will investigate it. The regulator has sought detailed reports from GoAir.
 
 GoAir said it "would not like to comment as the matter is under investigation by DGCA".
 
 The   also confirmed the air prox (breach of separation) in Varanasi airspace. "On April 23, at 1.11pm, an incident of TA/ RA was reported between Indigo 6E 6488 at FL360 (flight level 36,000 feet) and GoAir G8 585 (which was) descending from FL370 (flight level 37,000 feet) to FL330 (flight level 33,000 feet). This incident happened in Varanasi airspace. All action, as per laid down procedures, have been taken and the incident is under investigation," said an AAI spokesman.
 
 DGCA and PW did not comment. In India, IndiGo and GoAir have PW-powered A320 neos in their fleet. 
 
