CHANDIGARH: The call details of   and her father V S Kundu, a senior IAS officer in the Haryana government, were submitted before the court on Thursday.

 A representative of a telecom company submitted the call records between Varnika Kundu, a DJ and victim in the high-profile   case, and others before the district court. This was done in response to an application wherein the defence had moved petition demanding call details between Kundu and her father, as well records of conversation between the victim and an advocate on the night of the incident.
 
 An Airtel employee appeared before the court to submit the call records between the victim and others on August 4 and 5. The court had earlier allowed the application of defence. The copies of these conversations were provided to the defence counsel, who then sought time to go through them before completing the cross-examination of Varnika as per the directions of the high court. The matter was adjourned and will now come up for hearing on January 8 when the cross-examination of victim would be done.
 
 Earlier, Reliance and Vodafone representatives were also summoned to provide call details. After the third telecom company’s official submitted the record on Thursday, the record was provided to the counsel of accused   and friend Ashish Kumar. The plea for call details was filed on October 27 after charges were framed against the accused.
 
 
 
 
 On August 5, 2017, Vikas Barala, a student of law at  , and Ashish, a law graduate, had allegedly followed Varnika, daughter of a senior IAS officer in the Haryana government, and tried to stop her car in Chandigarh. They were arrested after Varnika called up the police. At the time of incident, they were believed to be under the influence of liquor. Chandigarh police have filed a chargesheet against the accused under sections 354D (stalking), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person), 341 (wrongful restraint), 511 (attempt to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 185 (driving by a drunk person) of the Motor Vehicle Act.
 
 
