CHANDIGARH: Harjinder Kaur, the chairperson of Chandigarh Commission for protection of Child Rights on Tuesday assured the parents that their rights will be safeguarded during a hearing session on complaint filed by parents of students studying in Mount Carmel School, Chandigarh.

 The school authorities had sent parents an SMS last week stating that the school management had decided to rusticate their wards as their parents had created ruckus over the fee issue.
 
 Taking cognizance of the complaint, commission had issued summons to the school. The   and parents who received the message recorded their statements on Tuesday. The members of the commission in a shocking revelation said that the principal accepted that the message was sent saying that it was the decision of the school management.
 
 The CCPCR on the basis of the statement said that they will be summoning the management on Monday since it was their decision. However, parents said that claims by principal that she was unaware of the decision are false since principal is also part of the management in every school.
 
 The parents also raised the issue of results which were being withheld by the school. TOI had reported that the school had not mentioned promoted to next class in report cards of students whose parents had dragged the school to court on the fee issue.
 
 “We told the commission that we had paid the fee as directed by the commission but the school was still demanding fee because of which they have withheld the results. I was assured that the results will be uploaded in subsequent three days,” said Gurpreet Katwal, president of  .
 
 The parents also brought to the fore, issue of fee for the upcoming session. “We told the commission that the school has been harassing parents over the issue of fee despite a stay on the hike from district court in previous session. To avoid any such issue in the upcoming session, school should clarify the situation. They should accept that parents will not be forced to pay hiked fee, till the time the case is subjudice,” Katwal said.
 
 The school on March 19, in an SMS to parents, said, “Considering all the relevant factors and your overall conduct during the year, for the betterment of the institution and peaceful environment of the school and to ensure better education, to maintain discipline, positivity and overall development of students, the management has unanimously decided that your ward/s would not be allowed to continue in the school henceforth.”
 
 TOI on Friday had reported that national CCPCR in a recent letter has directed all schools to not involve children in the matters related to fee. The letter states, “The commission has been receiving numerous complaints from all over the country where children are being harassed by the schools. This is a gross violation of Section 75 of the Juvenile Justice (care and protection of Children) Act, 2015 of which the NCPCR is the monitoring authority.”
 
 
