MUMBAI: The All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB), which failed to convince the Supreme Court against banning instant   last year, is all set to make it binding on Muslim men to commit in the nikahnama (Islamic marriage contract) that they will not follow the practice.

 More than a month after the   passed the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, making instant triple talaq or talaq-e-biddat a criminal offence with jail of up to three years, the board, at its 26th annual convention to be held from February 9 -11 in Hyderabad, will release a “model nikahnama” requiring bridegrooms to give an undertaking they will not divorce their wives using instant triple talaq.
 
 Once such an undertaking is given, its breach will be seen as invalid according to the Shariah or Muslim personal law, the board’s general secretary Maulana Wali Rahmani said. “Before the LS passed the bill (on December 28 last year), we had told the SC we would insert this provision in the nikahnama,” Rahmani said.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The board’s meet comes at a time when the Bill is still stuck in  . The new nikahnama is intended to signal that the board is committed to reforms in personal law. With this move, it hopes to persuade government to drop the clause which makes instant triple talaq a criminal offence.
 
  punishable with three years in jail. 
 
 MIM president and Hyderabad MP  , who was the lone Muslim MP to oppose the bill during the debate in LS, will be chairing the convention’s forthcoming reception committee.
 
 Though the AIMPLB had initially maintained that the triple talaq issue was a matter of faith and hence outside the judiciary’s realm, it had later agreed in court that it was an undesirable practice and that protection could be given to Muslim women at the time of execution of nikahnama. 
 
 Rahmani added that a model nikahnama which discouraged men from using triple talaq as a form to divorce was already in place, but the new undertaking would help stop the practice altogether.
 
 The board’s spokesperson, Maulana Sajjad Noamani, said the provision had been suggested by several of its members, and a decision on it would be taken at the convention. The Supreme Court struck down instant triple talaq on August 22, 2017, but several cases of the practice being still in use have surfaced after that.
 
 The board’s move is being welcomed within the Muslim community. “This will be a wonderful step towards fulfilling a long-standing demand of women and many educated, enlightened men in the community. It is the need of the hour,” said Naved Hamid, president of All India Muslim Majlise Mushawarat, an umbrella body of over 40 Muslim organisations. 
 
 The board’s executive member Maulana Athar Ali said triple talaq cases would reduce substantially once the model nikahnama is released. “The majority in the community follow Shariah rules on matrimonial issues,” he said.
 
 
