GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi trained guns at the opposition on Monday and targeted   president   and   chief   Yadav for indulging in negative politics. 

 Speaking to the media after offering 'khichdi' at Gorakhnath temple on Makar Sankranti, Yogi advised Rahul Gandhi to focus on development of Amethi.
 
 "It is good that he is visiting Amethi. He should focus on his parliamentary constituency instead of talking about the country and world. Amethi has been represented by four generations of his family and it is still lagging in development which is not up to the mark," said Yogi in his advice to Rahul who is visiting Amethi for the first time after becoming Congress president.
 
 Yogi targeted Akhilesh for obstructing UPCOCA and accused Samajwadi Party for disturbing peace in the state.
 
 "Akhilesh is protesting against Uttar Pradesh Control of Organized Crime Act (UPCOCA) as he fears that the criminals patronized by his party will be nabbed and put behind bars," he said.
 
 "Akhilesh was not interested in development of the state. His government patronized criminals and the state was known for lawlessness and crime during his regime. No good work could be expected from Samajwadi Party as there workers were behind killing of 22 innocent villagers in Azamgarh hooch tragedy and have been caught making spurious liquor at several places.," added Yogi.
 
 Defending his government's decision to withdraw 20,000 cases related to political protests, Yogi said that it was unlike the one during Samajwadi Party regime when only cases related to the Yadav clan were withdrawn.
 
 "We have withdrawn politically-motivated cases against workers of all parties. It was done in a transparent manner through a bill in the House while the SP government had withdrawn cases only against Yadav family and their party workers," he said. Replying a question on Ram temple, Yogi said, "It is not a political issue. It is related to faith of crores of Hindus. The case is in Supreme Court and I believe that it will get resolved."
 
 Yogi also wished   supremo   on her birthday.
 
 
