NEW DELHI: As the problem of   spirals out of control, the three corporations have help at hand in the form of experts from   who will guide them on flattening of slopes at the   and extracting   from garbage. Three landfill sites — Ghazipur (east Delhi), Bhalswa (north) and Okhla (south) — were declared exhausted a long time ago, but the corporations continue to dump   there for want of alternative locations.

 Delhi generates about 9,000MT of waste on a daily basis. With no segregation taking place at source, garbage dumped at the landfill sites releases excessive methane, leading to frequent fires, which, in turn, add to air pollution in the capital. 
 
  
  
 In September last year, two people had died after a large part of the Ghazipur landfill — which should have been closed 15 years ago — collapsed, sweeping several people on a road nearby into a canal. After the incident, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal directed the corporations to ensure that waste was not dumped at the already exhausted sites. However, civic officials insisted that developing new engineered landfill sites would take anywhere between six and 12 months. 
 
 While north and south corporations have earmarked locations for this purpose, EDMC is yet to make much progress in this regard. Experts from IIT-Delhi will now help EDMC devise ways to flatten the side-slopes of the Ghazipur site to ensure that another landslide doesn’t happen. 
 
 “According to the agreement, a group of experts from IIT-Delhi will advise us on the stability analysis of the Ghazipur landfill waste slope parallel to the canal. A remedial agency will be hired to provide conceptual designs for developing the slopes,” a senior EDMC official said. While the analysis would take about 12 weeks to complete, the slopes would be developed within 4-6 months, the official said. EDMC also plans to rope in a private agency to help convert solid waste into thermal and power energy. 
 
 North corporation, on the other hand, has earmarked a 12-acre site near Bhalswa to develop an engineered landfill site, which will have a dedicated waste-to-energy plant. South corporation, too, has allotted a 50-acre site at Tekhand for the purpose. An SDMC official said: “The engineered landfill sites will have a dedicated waste-to-energy plant for processing the waste, and the residue will be dumped at the landfill. These plants will have a processing efficiency of up to 95%, which will help do away with the concept of landfill sites in the future.” 
 
 The existing waste-to-energy plants at Ghazpiur and Okhla have a capacity to process 1,300 MT of waste each where as the one at Narela-Bawana can process 2,000 MT.
 
 
