Serial entrepreneur   hates the term ‘work-life balance’. “It implies that work is not life,” says the 75-year-old doyen of the information technology world.

 
 The challenges that crop up with changing technologies keep Soota excited. “There is big data, analytics, AI, IoT... This year, we are examining two new areas, one of which is blockchain. Making decisions in a tougher market keeps me on my toes,” he says.
 
 After working in   for 15 years, Soota set up IT consulting firm   with nine others in 1999 at the age of 57. He led the company through successful public listings on NSE and BSE before stepping down as chairman in 2011. For those who thought he was heading towards retirement, Soota had a surprise. At 69, he started Happiest Minds, a next-gen IT services company, which he aims to take public in the next few years.
 
 Soota starts his day by 6am. A good — or bad — habit he says he has is to check email as soon as he wakes up and just before he goes to bed around 11pm. “The world has become a smaller place. You reply to an email at night and it’s most likely you will have a response by morning. This cuts time spent on decision-making and action,” he says.
 
 He says staying fit is key to ageing well, and spends a large part of the morning on yoga, tai chi, walking and swimming. After reading the newspapers, he logs in at 9.30am to track the stock market.
 
 An avid traveller, Soota often takes vacations with his family. “I love to go to places nearby, like Maldives or  . This year, I am going paragliding with some of my batchmates,” he says.
 
 He spends over 60 hours a week reading and writing. His book ‘Entrepreneurship Simplified – From Idea to IPO’ was published in 2016, and he’s now mulling another. He’s also started a non-profit, Ashirvadam, which focuses on issues relating to the environment and the underserved.
 
 Does he plan to retire? “My responsibility is to have a succession plan. Eventually, I will change my role but that won’t constitute retirement,” he says.
 
