Jaipur: The state government on Monday filed its reply to the notice issued by the high court on a petition challenging the appointment of parliamentary secretaries.

 The government in its reply said the post of parliamentary secretaries was existed in the state since 1968 much before the 91st amendment act 2003 which states that the size of the council of ministers and in the respective state governments should not be more than 15% of the total members of lower house (15% strength of Lok Sabha in the parliament and 15% strength of lower houses of respective states legislatures.
 
 The Advocate General ML Lodha in his reply further said the post of parliamentary secretaries is to assist the ministers in their respective departments in discharge of their duties and they have not power to initiate policy decisions. Besides they do not attend cabinet meetings. So they cannot be equated with the ministers. The reply further said the petitioners had not made the parliamentary secretaries as party to the petition and the petition has been filed more than one and half years after their appointment invoking the provsion of delay.
 
 Unlike in Assam and Sikkim where the states had made laws legalising the appointment of parliamentary secretaries and their salary and allowances, Rajasthan has no such law exist, it was argued. 
 
 Supreme Court struck down the appointment of parliamentary secretaries in Assam and Sikkim on the ground that the state legislators have power to legislate on such matters. 
 
 The petitioner Deepesh Oswal said the state government had appointed 10 parliamentary secretaries with the status of ministers of state and by a bill Assembly Members (prevention of disqualification) Bill 2017 passed in the recent assembly session had tried to legitimize the posts which he argued is illegal.
 
 He pointed out that the post puts is an additional burden on the state exchequer and a means to circumvent the constitution 91st amendment which restricts the size of the council of ministers to 15% of the strength of the assembly. 
 
 
