Mumbai struggled across formats this season, getting knocked out in the Ranji and Vijay Hazare quarters, and scraping through to the Mushtaq Ali second round. They have won 41 titles, but given the scarce resources he has, captain   feels a rich legacy is not going to help Mumbai anymore. He spoke during the T20 Mumbai League about dealing with raw talent, his own poor form, average facilities, and new coaches almost every season.

 
 
 
 
 
 We struggled in Ranji, one-dayers, T20s. We missed important players when we needed them the most. Five debutants in Vijay Hazare, two-three in Ranji quarters… we faced those challenges, and as a captain, the results have been disappointing. Personally, I thought it was very stressful to see these performances.
 
 
 
 
 
 I have failed as a player this season. I haven’t scored the runs I usually do. That has been disappointing, as a player and captain. Probably it is my worst year in the six seasons I have played for Mumbai. You can’t expect results when your captain and other experienced players are not performing. Dhawal (Kulkarni) was not among wickets, Surya [kumar Yadav] was not among runs, I was a complete disaster. We were dependent on Siddhesh Lad, who has become a better player. We made a decision that he should bat up the order, which has shown results. That is one positive. Lad has stepped up his game, accepted more responsibility, and done it in all three formats.
 
 
 
 You cannot be aggressive and attacking when you have an inexperienced team. You know the quality will eventually improve, but when they come in they are facing experienced players, also the pitches are flatter in first-class and List A, as against age-group or club games. It is quite challenging for a young guy to come in. I can understand one or two players making their debut every season and settling in. But if you have 5-6 young players, you cannot expect them to take this team forward. You have to give them time. Unfortunately, we are in a situation where we have to play them. We’ve got injuries, players going on to play for India. If you see someone doing well in club cricket, you have to pick him, for you cannot see anyone else at the moment.
 
 
 
 I have been playing Ranji for Mumbai for six seasons and I have had four coaches. So there is a lot of changes right from the top. As a coach it is difficult to come and deliver right away, to understand players, to understand what went right and wrong previously. When a new coach comes in, if there is no communication, he will find it difficult to understand players. With Sameer (Dighe), he was not involved in   for a period of time. So obviously for him everything was pretty new. Most of the selectors were not involved with Mumbai cricket for a while. You cannot judge them in one year. You need to give them three years to select players, trust players.
 
 
 
 I cannot say this guy should or should not be the coach and it is unfair for anyone to trust my words, whether I might like or not like someone. I believe when you give someone an assignment, it should be for three years so that there is some stability. We had   who came in for just a year… you can’t have that.
 
 
 
 It will be great if we have variety… a good legspinner, an offspinner. We don’t have a genuine offspinner since Ramesh Powar went six years ago. Sai [raj Bahutule] retired years back. We haven’t answered that question as well. I have not really thought of where they came from or what the thought process was of identifying that talent. I would love to have 3-4 guys with different skills and then work around with who is needed or who is in form. At the moment we have just heaps of left-arm spinners. The year we won (2015-16) we had the bowling scheme. I felt that was really nice. Firstly we had lot of options for practice. They also got to bowl at players who have played at higher level, like a Rohit or Ajinkya or Surya or Abhishek. They got to bowl on these pitches, learn new tricks. Suddenly you find someone with exceptional talent, you can groom him. Unless you start spotting talent and have such schemes… it was very disappointing that it stopped in just one year, and again, as a Ranji team, we had to call bowlers for practice. The scheme needs to come back.
 
 
 
 It could have been managed well. Someone as experienced as Nayar who had done extremely well the year before in all formats, suddenly three four-games he wasn’t at his best and was dropped. It was difficult, you lose someone of his calibre – both on and off the field, the roles he has played over the past few years. You cannot replace him in a year. Whoever is replacing him, you have to give three-four years to find his feet. It was a big loss, especially because he is an allrounder. He gives us some confidence that we still have Nayar at 7 who can bat around with the tail and an exceptional bowler with the red ball. It’s not that he was unfit or struggling, purely dropped on form.
 
 
 
 The board pays a huge amount to every state association, so every association has money to create infrastructure. Every association has got everything – practice facility, grounds, gyms, access to good coaches – that we’ve got. That is why you see so many teams competing with Mumbai. The only thing is we have a lot of inspiration to draw from the glorious history behind us. But I don’t think history is going to help us win going forward. We have to look beyond the legacy of Mumbai cricket to keep winning. We have been training at BKC for 10 years. I’ve had a word with the association that the gym is not good enough to improve our standards. It might be good enough to maintain the standard but during the off-season you can’t give justice to 100 players who train there every day in that small space. Plus, we tend to suffer from the monsoon. The first outdoor session we usually have is two days before the first Ranji game. That’s why you see Mumbai struggle in the first couple of games every time… and then we struggle to qualify. The first time I led the full season, my first outdoor session was in Andhra and we lost. Preparation-wise a lot of things need to change. For that we need infrastructure, better facilities.
 
