GURUGRAM: The  , which is frequently criticised by solid waste experts and termed an eyesore by residents, is set to see a major transformation. The NGO, Voluntary Organisation for Welfare of Labour and Underprivileged Class (VOWLUC), along with  , has come up with a plan to clear the waste and turn the site into a multi-utility centre.

 According to people behind the project — which carries an estimated cost of around Rs 12 crore — the proposed centre will have a 30 tonne bio-gas plant, which will produce electricity that will be supplied to government canteens providing subsidised food. “While MCG has agreed to provide us with the land and bear the cost of the civil work, the rest of the project will be backed by CSR funds,” said VOWLUC president   T R Aiyyer, the man behind the plan.
 
 
  
 
 The cost of the civil work of the project that spans 0.75 acre, is expected to be around Rs 50-60 lakh, but might go up to a crore. Other than the bio-gas plant — which will convert segregated waste into bio-gas — the centre will have a newspaper recycling plant with a capacity of producing 840 tonne pulp, 240 tonnes of which will be used to make notebooks for underprivileged children, with the balance 600 tonnes used to make cheap paper bags costing Rs 7 for a 10kg bag. “The reason why paper bags are so expensive and inaccessible to the masses is the high cost. However, if we produce bags in higher volumes, we’ll be able to lower prices,” said Radhakrishnan.
 
 MCG officials said they have in principle agreed to participate in the project, and that approvals are currently being processed. “It’s a great proposal and I’d personally encourage such initiatives. But we still have internal approvals to be cleared, on which and we’ll hold a meeting on Thursday,” said MCG commissioner V Umashankar.
 
 The civil work for the project is expected to start this month. There are five private organisations funding the project from their CSR funds, and their specifications have also led to widening the project scope. For instance, one of these firms was very keen on building a sports utility complex within the campus, hence the centre will host a training facility for the underprivileged in squash and boxing.
 
 Radhakrishnan said he is continuously modifying the project plan and is keen on having an in-house laboratory, where research could be done on e-waste disposal. Talks are also on with other NGOs to set up classroom training courses in handicrafts for women from humble backgrounds within the campus.
 
 
 
 
