NAGPUR: On a day, when the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court lashed out at government lawyers for “lack of commitment” to work, many of them were allegedly canvassing for a particular candidate, contesting the   and Goa polls, scheduled for Wednesday.

 According to those doing private practice, the candidate is close to the   and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and was actively involved in appointment of many of the government lawyers by using his influence. Believed to be close to the chief minister’s office and other top BJP leaders, he is allegedly pressuring them to campaign for him and secure votes, they claimed.
 
 The government lawyers’ involvement gives weight to TOI’s report of March 16 where it exposed on how the additional/assistant government pleaders (AGPs/APPs) and public prosecutors (PPs) appointments were always marred by the political interference over the years, and the incumbents were selected on their proximity with ruling party leaders rather than the merit.
 
 “It’s shocking to see that many of them were campaigning during the office hours from 10.30am to 5.30pm, which is completely unprofessional. It’s adversely affecting the judiciary’s work leading to the increase in pendency. They should realize that they were being paid through taxpayers’ hard-earned money and not by the candidates belonging to any party,” lawyer Shreerang Bhandarkar said, while demanding stringent action on them.
 
 Surprisingly, GP Sumant Deopujari defended his colleagues’ moves instead of acting against them. He said even the government lawyers were like private ones, if they weren’t pleading for the state. “They’ve every right to support their favourite candidates, as polls are being held for the   where they’re voters as well. There is no such fixed timing for the government lawyers. Once, a case assigned to them is over, they’ve liberty to do anything, even the private practice. Only thing is they can’t file any case against the government in any court, till they’re on the post, which is for two years,” he clarified.
 
 Even the lawyers working for the District Government Pleader (DGP) Nitin Telgote’s office were seen campaigning for the candidate. He also defended them stating that PPs campaigned during lunch hour, and after the court’s working was over. “We’ve completed our work for the day. Not a single witness was turned away and court’s work was not hit. Even we’re voters and have right to support our friends contesting the polls. It’s a conspiracy by rival parties, who don’t have any other issue to raise,” he said. 
 
 Not only the government lawyers were seen actively participating in the campaigning of particular candidate, but they also uploaded their videos on various social media platforms while requesting voters to vote for him.
 
 Quoting private lawyers, TOI had reported on how current crop of government lawyers in the HC, civil, sessions and other courts, were there just due to their proximity with the Sangh Parivar and its associates, including the BJP, ABVP and the Adhivakta Parishad. Some of them were close with the top BJP leaders in state and centre from the region, and therefore, occupying prominent places in the hierarchy.
 
 
