PUNE: The season for school admissions is also when crooks prey on parents’ anxiety and make quick money by promising seats . 

 Pranav Choudhari, 21, was arrested by the Yerawada police on Wednesday for trying to pull off a gimmick by forging a letter of recommendation from the Prime Minister’s Office for the admission of two students to  ,  .
 
 Police said Choudhari, who gave his surname as Bhiku, produced the forged letters of recommendation on the letterheads of various government offices, including one of Debashree Mukherjee, joint-secretary,  , and another from “chairman minister states high court power jurisdiction member of defence and higher planning committee, government of India, New Delhi”, for admission of two students to standard III and junior kindergarten in the school.
 
 However, the alert administration staff of the school grew suspicious and contacted the PMO which denied issuing any such letter. The school’s officials then filed a first information report (FIR) with the Yerawada police on Wednesday after which Choudhari was arrested.
 
 Two others have been booked in the case. The school’s officials refused to comment on the matter.
 
 “When the school contacted the PMO’s office, they denied issuing any such letter and told the school to file a complaint. The principal approached us and we arrested Choudhari on Wednesday. He was produced in court on Thursday,” investigating officer Ravindra Gawari of the Yerawada police said.
 
 Police have also taken statements from the parents.
 
 “According to them, they were in a hotel discussing the admissions when Choudhari overheard them. He approached the parents and promised them admissions under the ‘VVIP’ quota. To convince them about his contacts, he showed them photographs of himself with various high-profile people. The parents, in the statement, said they had no idea that the letters were forged,” Gawari said.
 
 The incident happened in March when the admission process in the school had started. Police said there has been no exchange of money between the parents and the culprit. 
 
 A senior education official from the deputy director’s office said the forging of letter to gain admission in schools was serious. 
 
 “The administrations of schools should be careful when accepting any letters of recommendation from parents. It is their responsibility to confirm the authenticity of such letters by informing the respective authorities mentioned on the letter so that such fraudulent practices can be curbed and admissions will taken place happen in a transparent and fair manner.”
 
 
