NOIDA: The city grappled with traffic snarls and a power breakdown through Friday evening after a sudden thunderstorm accompanied by light drizzle damaged electric lines and made traffic signals dysfunctional.

 People caught up in the almost two-hour snarl were mostly those returning home from office. Vehicles moved at snail’s pace along the DND Flyway, Dalit Prerna Sthal, Captain Vijyant Thapar Marg, Captain   and several other arterial roads of the city.
 
 In the absence of signals, vehicular movement went for a toss as drivers tried to go past each other and ended up blocking ways at intersections. There was a long line of vehicles on the road between Sector 15A and the SSP’s office in Sector 14A around 7pm after an electric pole fell because of the wind. The pole was removed after half an hour. 
 
 The situation was little different in the city’s internal roads. Commuters battled slow traffic at various intersections like Shashi Chowk, Balak Nath, Sector 50/51, T Series and Sector 22. Traffic signals had stopped functioning at these points because of a power breakdown.
 
 The storm that had started around 5.50pm continued till around 7pm, accompanied by a light drizzle. “I had left for Delhi around 7pm but got stuck in a jam for almost half an hour. An electric pole had fallen on the road on the Noida-Delhi carriageway,” said Snehashish Tyagi, a Film City resident who was headed to Akshardham.
 
 Traffic inspector Layak Singh told TOI they had to call a crane to remove the pole and trees that had been uprooted. “The pole was removed by 7.45pm. Vehicles remained stuck for almost half an hour,” he said.
 
 Several parts of the city witnessed power cuts that ranged between three and five hours. Officials said poles had been uprooted in Sectors 50, 39, 37 and 16 and branches of trees had snapped wires.
 
 Residents accused the Noida Authority of not pruning the branches of trees regularly, causing them to spread over the wires at times.
 
 While most of the city plunged into darkness around 4-5pm, some parts remained so till around 10pm. “Loose, hanging cables led to this situation. The concerned authorities need to change their mindset,” said Brigadier (Rtd) Ashok Hak, a resident of Sector 28 whose house was without power till 9pm.
 
 Several residents questioned the preparedness of the authorities to deal with sudden rain and thunderstorms, pointing out that the monsoons were a few months away.
 
 The residents of Sectors 35, 36, 44, 50, 51, 92, 30 and 100 grappled with a power breakdown for over three hours. “It’s been over 3 hours and power is yet to be restored. My elderly mother is unwell and unable to cope with this condition. If this is the situation after a light drizzle, what kind of infrastructure are we talking about here?” asked Nina Rai of Sector 30.
 
 People in Sector 100 battled a water crisis that was caused by the lack of electricity.
 
 AK Singh, the superintending engineer of Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited, said a team of 100 officials had been going around the city trying to restore power at the earliest. “The sudden storm led to many faults across the city where poles were uprooted and wires snapped. We have nearly 100 people (10 from each substation) out in the city. While most of the power was restored by 9pm, faults in some areas took more time. The situation was normal by 10-10.30pm,” Singh said.
 
 
