KOCHI: Njarackal police probing the death of a 21-year-old woman who went missing hours before her wedding is considering whether there was any abetment to suicide in the incident. 

  of   was found dead in the backwaters two days after her scheduled day of wedding. "We are sure about the incident being a suicide as the timings of her going missing, getting spotted over the   by a relative and later finding the body add up. However, we are probing whether she was forced to take the extreme step," said Rageeshkumar R, Njarackal SI.
 
 He added that they found notes from her home addressed to her ex-boyfriend. "She has scribbled in a notebook that everyone would know her love towards him soon. It seems like the woman had agreed for the marriage proposed by the family due to pressure. From her notes it is likely that she had decided to take the extreme step earlier itself," said the SI.
 
 However, some of the actions of the bride have left the police perplexed as she didn't directly commit suicide but went to a beauty parlour first. She had left the parlour saying that she is going to a temple and then she was seen on the bridge.
 
 "There are some irregularities in the findings. We have summoned the fiance to the police station on Monday. We will inquire as to what they used to talk so that there would be more clarity on the incident," said Rageesh.
 
 The police on Saturday interrogated the ex-boyfriend of the deceased. "The last time they spoke was in February. They were not keeping in touch after they decided to split. The duo had met each other while doing a pharmacy course together," said police.
 
 The police had said that she had emulated the act of Mishel, a teenager found dead in the backwaters in March 2017, after jumping off the second Goshree Bridge.
 
 "The investigation is focused on eliminating a possibility of abetment. Her sister has told us that she used to talk about Mishel and we suspect that she emulated her and jumped off the same bridge," said the Njarackal sub-inspector.
 
 
