Nagpur: Artists from Jyotiba Gyandeo Samajik Sanstha paid a tribute to legendary playback singer Mohd Rafi during ‘Rafi ke kayi rang kalakaron ke sang’ at Vidarbha Hindi Sahitya Sangh on Wednesday.

 The low-key event was a delayed celebration of the singer’s birthday where artists made music enthusiasts revisit the golden era through their mesmerizing renditions.
 
 The singers coming from different professional backgrounds came together for the love of music. They have been performing shows since the last 20 years now. The event was conceptualized by secretary of the committee Dhanraj Raut, who was also a part of the singing troupe. All the songs were sung on Karoake, which were wonderfully pulled off by vocalists.
 
 The event began with a heart-warming rendition of ‘sukh ke sab sathi’ to glorify the unity of the members.
 
 Remakes and respire versions of Rafi’s songs by youngsters is available on the internet which indicated his popularity even in today’s times said, co-secretary Ashish Lokhande.
 
 He said, “There is some magic in Mohd Rafi’s songs that if you hear just a line, you wish to listen to the entire chorus and hum along. His work is being cherished since so many years now and he is still a big hit among the young generation.”
 
 The playlist consisted of some romantic numbers like ‘ae phoolon ki rani’, ‘vaadiyan tera daaman’, ‘gulabi ankhein’, ‘jhilmil sitaro ka aangan’ and melodious ones like ‘aankhon hi aankhon mein’.
 
 Promoting the music from 70s, the organizers believed that each song took many days to be recorded in those times, the lyrics were meaningful and efforts were evident, unlike today where it’s a quick process and the songs are wrapped up just within a few hours.
 
 The self-trained singers walking in the shoes of Rafi won hearts with their befitting tribute. Anant Pardhi enthralled everyone with his rendition of the peppy number ‘mast baharon ka main aashiq’ and received a roaring applause.
 
 The crowd was all smiles and the foot-tapping rendition of ‘baar baar dekho’ by Anand Bhagat made the atmosphere merrier. The versatile singer also sung the heart wrenching number ‘kya hua tera waada’.
 
 
