BENGALURU: BT( formely  ) is insourcing more of its IT work as it focuses on new digital technologies and leveraging cloud platforms to deliver products and services.

 
 Howard Watson, CEO of   Technology, Service and Operations, 90% outsourced at its peak, but that had now come down to 65-70%. “We have been rebalancing that over the past decade by employing software engineers in India. We have grown our internal team to about 2,000 in India. We are still hiring software engineering graduates in the UK, but there aren’t enough of them and that’s a challenge,” he said.
 
 BT has an annual IT outlay of over $500 million. Tech Mahindra, TCS, Cognizant, Infosys and Virtusa are its key outsourced IT service providers. “I would say we are still very dependent on our offshore partners,” Watson said.
 
 A number of MNCs are insourcing technology work, as some technologies become core to their operations, and a competitive advantage.
 
 BT has a 2020 strategy called Project  , a roadmap to transform its IT organization to be services-based and customer-centric. “Our IT organization has been historically over-focused on platforms and solutions rather than on the customer. That’s the key change. We are also trying to standardize how we do IT across the organization,” Watson said.
 
 Watson said the company had also brought some work back onshore, “because it’s important to ensure that in the UK we have a core set of software engineering capability very close to customers.”
 
 He, however, said there’s been no decline in the use of Indian IT service providers because the front of the business has more and more ideas to develop.
 
 Watson said BT has been increasingly working with Indian outsourced providers in migrating and managing legacy services in fixed network and wireless services. “The key capability here is the ability to refactor the underlying code in our systems on a regular basis. We always have legacy to attack. The outsourced providers are pretty good in tackling the legacy,” he said.
 
 BT has 30 million mobile customers using its network, 18.6 million mobile customers using 4G, and 80% of UK’s land mass covered by 4G, as per its 2017 annual report. 
 
 BT said it will save around 300 million pounds through its global transformation programmes. These changes, it said in its annual report, will clarify accountabilities, remove duplication and improve efficiencies, removing around 4,000 roles mainly from managerial and back-office areas. 
 
