Camel milk is the product for future and it can save Rajasthan’s camels, said German veterinarian and the author of ‘Camel Karma’, Ilse Köhler-Rollefson, at a JLF session held on Samvad lawns on Thursday.

 Köhler-Rollefson, who arrived in   in 1991, has been working to save the state animal and supporting the pastoral Raika community, who rear camels.
 
 At the session, which saw a handful of attentive animal lovers, she highlighted how the camel lost its value in today’s world and the new law—the   (Prohibition of   and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Bill, 2015—which has imposed red tape on camel breeders.
 
 “The only thing one could do to save camel is to milk it. We have found that the demand for camel milk has increased as it can cure autistic children. According to traditional knowledge, camel eats 36 different plant species. All these plants have pharmaceutical value and this is the reason whyc camel milk is healthy,” she said.
 
 “Camel is not a threatened species globally. The camel population is increasing. But the population graph is going down in Rajasthan. It’s a reflection on the animal not being used properly. In other countries such as  , cattle herders are switching to camels to fight global warming. Similarly, in the US and Europe, camel milk is utilised not to cure autistic children, but diabetes,” she said.
 
 She pointed out how the Raika community was finding it difficult to sell camel milk. “If we want to save the camel, we have to save the whole ecosystem. Earlier, there was a traditional understanding in the community which equated selling camel milk to selling your own children. However, they have realised now it’s important for the camel’s survival. I am happy that the Rajasthan government has decided to start the sale of camel milk,” she said.
 
 Explaining the plight of the animal in Rajasthan, Ilse said, “In India, the forest policy is such that the camels have been kept out of forests and there are no grazing rights. It’s difficult for them to survive, if they are not allowed to enter the forests.”
 
 
