Nagpur: Relying on a four-and-half-year-old girls’ testimony, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has sentenced a Hinganghat labourer to one-year rigorous imprisonment for outraging her modesty, over 16 years after the incident. While delivering the verdict, the HC acquitted the petitioner from charges of rape, but slapped Section 354 of IPC for outraging modesty and maintained his conviction for kidnapping while adding the charge of outraging modesty. Apart from the one year sentence for kidnapping, the petitioner will serve another year for the new charge. Petitioner Shankar Thakre was convicted under Sections 363 and 376 read with 5 (11) of IPC by the sessions court here, on June 19, 2004, for allegedly kidnapping and raping a minor girl. He was subsequently sentenced to two years behind bars and asked to pay a fine of Rs500 for both counts.  He challenged the verdict following which he was released on bail in 2004 and the plea was admitted for final hearing. In the meanwhile, he settled at his native place, got married and started a family, until police nabbed him last year. When the final hearing commenced on September 13, the petitioner failed to appear before justice Rohit Deo who then levied a cost of Rs301 on him to be paid to High Court legal aid sub-committee. When the matter again came up for hearing on October 4, he failed to appear leading to issuance of a non-bailable warrant (NBW) to secure his presence.  The police then nabbed him from his residence in Hinganghat and produced him before the court, after which he was sent to central jail here. After going through the case documents, Justice Deo issued a notice to Thakre stating that even if the latter’s criminal appeal is dismissed and conviction is upheld, he should be able to remain present in hearings on enhancement of his sentence, which was just two years. The case was reported by TOI on October 31. “The evidence on record proves that accused made preparation to commit the offence. But then, the dividing line between preparation and an attempt, albeit blurred and thin at times, is well recognized. While the accused did outrage child’s modesty, the evidence is insufficient to prove that he attempted to rape the child victim,” Justice Deo said, while partly allowing Thakre’s appeal. He added that the petitioner’s conviction under Section 363 is equally justified as it is based on the survivor’s evidence and which is corroborated by her mother. “I’ve closely scrutinized survivor’s evidence on the touchstone of caution to satisfy court’s conscious that she is not a tutored witness. I don’t not find any reason to disbelieve the child witness and her evidence must be accepted as reliable and confidence inspiring,” said Justice Deo. Thakre, a daily wage labourer, had kidnapped the four and half years old survivor on October 20, 2001, when she was playing with other children in front of her house at Shaniwari Ward in Ramtek. He lured her while promising to offer Sabudana (tapioca) and tried to enforce himself on her. The survivor then complained of pain in private parts with elder sister who lodged a police complaint with the Ramtek Police Station on next day. He was subsequently, convicted for kidnapping and rape as per old laws in 2004.