CHENNAI: The first day of the school year began with a holiday for some   schools that were scheduled to   for the new   on Thursday. While schools remained open on the day of the bandh, several private schools decided to not function on Thursday in view of a safety issue. Anticipating a problem in transportaion due to the opposition strike, several schools decided to extend the school break for another day. 

 “Usually we open around this time and close by the end of April, before the summer holidays. While some schools reopened on Wednesday many were to commence classes on Thursday. Several schools remained shut after parents expressed concerns. We only asked the Class X and Class XII students to come to school, while the rest of the school remained closed,” said P Vishnucharan, correspondent of Shree Niketan group of schools which includes both state and CBSE board. 
 
 Since many students commute by buses, transportation is an issue for a large section, said teachers. Some schools which run private buses feared attacks and didn’t want to put students at risk. “We ply 60 buses across branches. But when we got calls from several parents regarding the bandh. We decided to close the schools in the view of children’s safety,” said a school in Tiruvallur. Chennai Sahodaya School Complex, SBOA, Chennai Public School, Alwin Public School, Maharishi Vidya Mandir and Shree Niketan group of schools were among those that didn’t function or partially functioned on Thursday. 
 
 Students writing the CBSE Class XII psychology board exam were among the few who had to venture out on the day when autorickshaws and buses were numbered. Private schools association president R Visalakshi said due to the board exams, schools serving as exam centres functioned on Thursday. Matriculation schools that did not have any exams scheduled, chose to remain closed. 
 
  (CSMA) President Manohar said it was decided that schools would function as per government orders but some may have taken a personal call due to concerns in the area. However he said that many schools in districts like Namakkal, Tirupur, Erode and   among others functioned as usual. “There were no issues for us, we had reopened on Wednesday for the new academic year and continued to function on Thursday too,” said a teacher of Vidya Mandir, Mylapore. 
 
 
