PATNA: The Election Commission (EC) has ordered repolling at 23 booths in the Bhabhua assembly constituency on March 13 (Tuesday) as byelection to one Lok Sabha and two assembly seats in the state passed off peacefully on Sunday.

 There was 57% voter turnout in   Lok Sabha constituency while 50.6% people exercised their franchise in Jehanabad and 54.37% in Bhabhua assembly constituencies.
 
 The electronic voting machines (EVMs), attached with the voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) device, were used at all the 2,826 polling booths in the three constituencies — 2,143 in Araria, 357 in Jehanabad and 326 in Bhabhua.
 
 BJP candidate Pradip Kumar Singh is locked in electoral battle with   of   in Araria parliamentary constituency while Suday Yadav alias Krishna Mohan Yadav of RJD is in contest with JD(U)’s Abhiram Sharma in Jehanabad. In Bhabhua, BJP’s Rinki Pandey is pitted against Shambhu Singh Patel of the Congress. 
 
 State’s chief electoral officer (CEO) Ajay V Nayak said repolling was ordered at 23 booths in Bhabhua on March 13 because of the malfunctioning of the VVPAT device of the EVMs used there. “The VVPAT devices could not be rectified in time,” Nayak added.
 
 The three district administrations concerned (Araria, Jehanabad and  ) issued tokens to voters who had already queued up at the booths but could not cast their votes before the closure time (5pm). “They will be allowed to exercise their franchise,” Nayak said, adding as a result of it, the overall polling percentage of the three constituencies would “increase slightly”.
 
 Nayak also said the election observers deputed in the three constituencies would verify at 11am on Monday if the VVPATs used had reported any malfunctioning at any point of time on the polling day. “Based on their scrutiny, repolling would be ordered at more booths, if necessary,” Nayak said.
 
 “It is for the first time that VVPAT device was used in the EVMs at all the polling booths. The VVPATs will be used all over the country during the 2019 parliamentary elections. Proper training had been given to the polling personnel. Maybe, the training did not percolate down well, or some technical malfunctioning in the VVPAT occurred,” he added. 
 
 Incidentally, reports regarding firing by antisocial elements in Jehanabad were received during the day. “However, the police verified the incident on the order from the state police headquarters and found that the firing took place in Arwal district, which is not in Jehanabad assembly constituency,” Nayak said, adding no untoward incident was reported from any of the three constituencies.
 
 The political circles were concerned about the slow turnout of voters among 17.38 lakh of them in Araria parliamentary, 2.86 lakh in Jehanabad and 2.59 lakh in Bhabhua assembly constituencies.
 
 
