VIJAYAWADA: The abysmal   situation in Prasadampadu has left the locals incensed.

 Prasadampadu is a major nagara panchayat in the city. It is a mile away from   (VMC) limits. Construction activity in the area has picked up, ever since capital announcement was made. Thousands of government employees shifted from Hyderabad and many rented houses in the area as units were available at low rates. Further, the headquarters of technical education department and excise departments came up here.
 
 Locals are infuriated with officials not acting on sanitation complaints. “The population in Prasadampadu has doubled in the last one year. The local body is not able to maintain the area. There is not a single dumper bin here. Garbage is dumped on the streets. It is stinking up the entire area. Sanitary staff clean garbage once a week. No one can imagine our plight,” said L Vijayalakshmi, a resident from   street.
 
 Officials spent huge amounts on construction of side-drains on BMPS Road, but they failed to complete works. Drain water is overflowing onto the streets. “The one kilometre-long side drain on BMPS Road is a perfect example of civic apathy. Drain water is flowing onto the streets. This has been going on for months. There is no end to mosquito menace. No official is responding,” said  , a local.
 
 He alleged panchayat officials are not responding to plaints despite repeated requests. “Majority of the drains in the colony are in the same condition. We are requesting the state government to speed up the merger process of nagar panchayats into VMC. That may just be the solution to our problem,” he added.
 
 Pinniboyina Venkata Subba Rao, executive officer of  , said they are running short-staffed. “We presently have 50 sanitation staffers. The majority of them are engaged in maintaining sanitation on the national highway as per directions of VMC. We don't have a dumping yard. Presently we are allowed to dump two loads per day in VMC’s yard. Garbage generation has increased with the population increasing. We are trying our best to manage the situation,” he added.
 
 
