GURUGRAM: The chief minister has cleared the proposal to allow   of newly-constructed fourth floors of independent houses in plotted colonies as an independent dwelling unit, offering major relief to plot owners in Huda sectors and licensed colonies of Gurugram. 

 TOI had reported on May 16 and May 19 that owners of plots and plotted houses, who had recently added a fourth floor after housing rules were changed, mostly in the hope of selling the new floor as a separate flat, were angry they were unable to get it registered.
 
 Huda had changed its rules for individual plots in February last year, allowing construction of a stilt and four floors on them, from the earlier limit of a stilt and three floors. But DTCP in March this year restricted the registration of the fourth floor as an independent residential unit.
 
 Late evening on Sunday, chief minister   announced that plot owners had met him and requested they be permitted to register fourth floors. “The government had allowed construction of a fourth floor, but disallowed its registration. Property owners have been demanding this be allowed. So I’ve directed concerned officials to allow registration,” said Khattar after meeting aggrieved plot owners.
 
 Since the Haryana building code was amended, the city has seen a sudden rise in construction of fourth floors in Huda sectors and licensed colonies. The sale of plots in residential sectors also saw a rise, as builders tried to profit from building fourth floors.
 
 With the CM’s announcements, the state government will have to make an amendment in the Haryana building code, to allow for registration of fourth floors. A senior official in Chandigarh said they are yet to receive any order in this regard. 
 
 Despite existing restrictions, though, fourth floors in some houses were already illegally registered by plot owners, in connivance with tehsil officials. Gurugram administration had ordered a probe in such cases where illegal registries were done, and SDM   had said action will be taken against concerned registrars.
 
 Meanwhile, around 100 people, including small-time builders and house owners, had recently gathered at the office of Huda administrator on Friday to   against a recent directive, restricting registration of fourth floors as independent residential units.
 
 A rough estimate suggests currently, owners of at least 500-600 plotted houses across Gurugram are building fourth floors on their properties. 
 
 In the next 3-4 months, the number will be somewhere near 1,000. 
 
 
