PATNA: Universities in state may soon have retired army colonels as registrars. A move to this effect has been initiated by governor-cum-chancellor’s secretariat.

 Sources said about 12 retired army personnel and administrative service officials appeared in the interview held at Raj Bhavan on Friday for appointment of registrars in different state universities. 
 
 The search committee for the selection of registrars included Patna University vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh, Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University VC Nalini Kant Jha and Nalanda Open University VC Rabindra Kumar Sinha. Since many candidates called for interview did not turn up, another round of interview is likely to be held soon.
 
 The move to appoint retired army personnel and civil servants as registrars has reportedly been initiated by governor-cum-chancellor Satya Pal Malik to streamline the administrative and financial working of the universities, which will, in turn, improve the higher education system in the state. 
 
 Sources said teacher registrars have so far failed to bring in much desired improvement in the universities despite concerted efforts of the chancellor and the state government. Even the present chancellor has taken several initiatives like formulation of academic and examination calendars, introduction of biometric system of attendance for teachers and non-teaching staff and implementation of choice-based credit system (CBCS), but very few universities have made satisfactory progress in these directions. 
 
 All these things could have been easily implemented had there been people with administrative acumen as registrars, said sources. Senior academics claim that the provision for appointment of retired administrative officials as registrars has already been made in the universities’ Acts. Both the Bihar State Universities (Amendment) Act, 2017 and the Patna University (Amendment) Act, 2017 provide for appointment of retired civil administration officials like ADMs as the registrar of universities, a position hitherto confined to teachers. This amendment was reportedly made by the state government to implant administrative skill in the universities and regulate the functioning of the universities.
 
 Earlier, the Bihar Public Service Commission or the Bihar State University (Constituent Colleges) Service Commission used to appoint registrars through open advertisement and usually teachers became registrars. In 1993, an auxiliary provision was introduced through Section 15 of the Bihar State Universities Act, 1976 and the Patna University Act, 1976, empowering the chancellor to appoint the registrar out of a panel recommended by the state government, the university concerned or the UGC.
 
 Sources said chief minister Nitish Kumar also discussed various issues of higher education, including appointment of vice-chancellors for all the three newly created universities, at a meeting with chancellor Malik at Raj Bhawan on Friday. As the search committees have already submitted to the chancellor the panels of candidates selected for appointment as VCs and pro-VCs, the appointments are likely to be notified shortly. 
 
 
