NEW DELHI: A part of Lutyens’ Delhi would turn into a fortress between January 24 and 26 as the capital would play host to leaders of 10   who have been invited for  . Police sources say 17 stretches would be made inaccessible because of VVIP movement. 

 Sources said that Sardar Patel Marg, Ashoka Road, Akbar Road and Mother Teresa Crescent would be shut intermittently during the evening rush hour on January 24. On January 25, movement on these roads would be restricted through the day as the leaders would attend the Asean summit and dinner hosted by the President at Rashtrapati Bhavan. 
 
 Special commissioner (traffic) Dependra Pathak confirmed the traffic circulation plan and said that a detailed diversion route would be issued days before the event. “We would request the commuters travelling on the stretch to opt for the diversions and plan their journeys in advance to avoid hassles,” said Pathak.
 
 Police have also requested Google to show the alternative routes on maps to make travel easier. Entry to areas around Rajghat and Pragati Maidan may be restricted too during peak hours on these two days. Police said they might also close down Aurobindo Marg — a major entry point from south Delhi—if needed.
 
 Police would install more than 5,000 cameras around all stretches. India Gate C-hexagon would made out of bounds while dignitaries head to Rajghat or to Hyderabad House for state meetings. Other roads being used by the delegates would be closed for around 40 minutes, traffic police sources said. 
 
 Sardar Patel Marg, Teen Murti Marg, Akbar Road, Tees January Marg, Rajesh Pilot Marg, Subrahmaniam Bharti Marg, Mathura Road and Bhairon Marg would remain closed between 5.30pm and 10.00pm on January 25.
 
 Traffic officials have advised commuters to use Barapullah Road, Lodhi Road, Safdarjung Road, Kemal Ataturk Marg, Mother Teresa Crescent for east-west movement across the city. When SP Marg would be shut, traffic would be diverted to Ridge Road. Shanti Path would remain open for traffic from Moti Bagh while people coming from Ring Road could use Africa Avenue.
 
 Tilak Marg, Bahadurshah Zafar Marg, IP Marg and Vikas Marg would be open for vehicles going towards India Gate.
 
 
