BENGALURU: From misuse of documentary credit like ‘Letters of Credit, Guarantee or Undertakings’ to diversion and siphoning of funds, a variety of frauds linked to advances haunt the Indian Banking system, indicating an apparent lack of hygiene and risk frameworks.

 While 86% of all frauds are advance-related in India for the year 2016-17, it was 99% at the Punjab National Bank (PNB) which experts say points to a series of collusions and connivance from insiders. 
 
 But PNB is not the only with such exposure: A total of 26 banks have reported that more than 97% of their frauds were advance related, of which 15 of them have it at 99% or more. Another eight banks have said that such frauds account for 90% to 95% of frauds.
 
 Data from the RBI shows that of the Rs 23,903 crore lost to frauds in 2016-17, 86% or Rs 20,561 crore were lost to advance related frauds. In case of PNB, of the Rs 2,808 crore lost to frauds, Rs 2,788 crore or 99.29% was linked to advances.
 
 
 
 
 While RBI is in the process of compiling figures for the year 2017-18, data for the three years ending March 31, 2016 show that 67% of total frauds were linked to advances, which means that in 2016-17 there has been an increase of 28%. In the said period (three years), banks lost a total of Rs 22,743 crore to frauds, of which Rs 15,238 crore was linked to advances.
 
 According to experts and bankers, advances-related frauds result out of breach of trust and contract, and involve misuse of letters of credit or guarantees, submission of forged or fake documents to avail loans and mortgaging of assets that don’t exist or have been pledged elsewhere and so on.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Pinkerton, a private investigation firm that has worked with multiple banks, including Public Sector Banks (PSBs), has found that in its experience, the most popular modus operandi for such frauds include: Colluding with bank officials; paper forgery; using same collateral for obtaining loans; fake know-your-customer (KYC) documents; floating new firms while hiding previous ones; fictitious sales and beefing up of transactions et al. 
 
 Prof Charan Singh, former RBI Chair Professor at the IIM-B, says: “So long as there is money, the greed to obtain it in whichever way possible cannot be rid from the system. But what the government and the banks can do is install systems that minimise such frauds. We need an overhauling, from period transfers of all employees in banks to making top management and directors liable, there needs to be a complete cleansing of the system.”
 
 A working paper titled “Frauds in the Indian Banking Industry,” published by Prof Singh and his associates points out: “...Big frauds aren’t so easy to commit and often results because bank officials collude with borrowers and sometimes even with officials of third parties such as advocates or chartered accountants (CAs).”
 
 It goes on to say that third parties such as the CAs or the advocates often get away as it is nearly impossible for the banks to prove criminal intent on the part of such persons due to various reasons such as lack of clear understanding of legal matters to bankers, and lack of expertise and legal advice on this subject, and unwillingness to reveal some sensitive data to courts/ public domain. 
 
 While agreeing with these observations, Netrika Consulting Managing Director Sanjay Kaushik said that such frauds indicate a larger systemic issue that needs addressing professionally, using globally-accepted tools and best practices and that mere troubleshooting after a scam has been unearthed won’t take the system too far.
 
 “To mitigate risks, it is imperative for the banking sector to move towards employing the services of an independent party during the credit sanctioning process. It is now critical to validate & verify the claims made by individuals seeking loans. An independent audit must be conducted, to verify if the funds procured, are being used for the purpose for which they were intended,” Rohit Karnataka said.
 
