CHENNAI: The no-confidence motion moved by the YSR Congress and TDP against the   government at the Centre has not even been taken up for voting in the Parliament. But its repercussion has already been felt in Tamil Nadu with the ruling AIADMK on Friday expelling its 'tough talking' party spokesman and former MP K C   from the primary membership of the party for saying the party should support the no-confidence motion. 

 A statement from the AIADMK, signed by party steering committee coordinator O Panneerselvam, and joint-coordinator   said K C Palanisamy was being expelled from the primary membership of the party for acting against the party's policies and principles and also in a way to bring disrepute to the party.
 
 "The AIADMK (which has 37 MPs in the Lok Sabha) should use this opportunity to get the Centre to constitute the  . If that does not happen, it should support the no-confidence motion," Palanisamy had told a television channel earlier in the day.
 
 Palanisamy's views did not go down well with the party leadership. In contrast, AIADMK MP and Lok Sabha deputy speaker M Thambidurai had told reporters earlier in the day that "It's up to the party leadership to take a call on whether to support the no-confidence motion or not".
 
 "I have no plans to join any other front or party. I am open for a debate if the party leadership explains the reasons behind my expulsion," Palanisamy told reporters in Coimbatore on Friday evening. "I was the first one to move a petition before the Election Commission against (V K) Sasikala, much before others, including OPS, stopped falling at the feet of Sasikala. Now, both EPS and OPS, in order to appease Modi, have expelled me from the party," he said.
 
 KCP, as he is popularly known in the AIADMK, became an MLA way back in 1977, when the party founded by MGR contested a general election for the first time. A party strongman from the Western belt, a traditional stronghold of the AIADMK, he was opposed to the Sasikala faction's dominance in the party affairs since the 90s. He has retained that character until now and hence is unlikely to join the   (AMMK), floated by rebel AIADMK leader and Sasikala's nephew T T V Dhinakaran.
 
 "It (KCP's expulsion) is a hasty decision and one that has been taken without understanding the context in which KCP made the statement," said an AIADMK leader. He said there is a growing disgruntlement not only within the erstwhile OPS faction against OPS, but also in the EPS faction as the collective leadership has not even constituted the much promised steering committee.
 
 Meanwhile, Vaigai Selvan has been appointed as deputy propaganda secretary.
 
 
