PATNA: The venue for 'jaimala' of RJD chief Lalu Prasad's son   and former minister Chandrika Rai's daughter Aishwarya Rai at   ground on Saturday looked more like that for a 'raila' (big rally), leading to a virtual 'food riot' at around 10.30pm.

 
 Soon after Tej and Aishwarya exchanged garlands, hordes of people, believed to be RJD supporters, entered the VVIP pavilion and ransacked the food counters, chairs, crockery and cutlery as they felt entitled to the VIP reception as 'baraatis'.
 
 Ice cream stalls and salad counters with 20 types of foreign fruits bore the brunt of the annoyed revellers. People were seen running with ice cream bricks, fruits and plates in their hands. Even some RJD workers were seen running with sticks to chase away the 'intruders'. The only saving grace was that the bride and the groom's families as well as the VIPs had left the venue.
 
 An RJD man told TOI on Sunday that a rumour had spread that tastier food items were in the VIP pavilion.
 
 The 'vandalism' exposed the lack of preparedness for the grand wedding. It also raised question over Lalu's younger son  's management as he had formed committees of RJD functionaries to look after the arrangements.
 
 RJD leaders admitted lack of management for the mega ceremony, which was attended by at least 20,000 people.
 
 "Such a lack of discipline is common in social functions of Lalu's family. The coordinators and organising committee members were nowhere to be seen after the 'jaimala' started," another RJD functionary said and added, "Apart from thousands of invitees, tens of hundreds of local youths, mostly mischief mongers, had also come for free food. In fact, they were involved in the vandalism."
 
 Political observers claimed that the incident had revived the infamous memories associated with a couple of marriages in Lalu's family. Around 50 cars and pieces of new furniture were taken away from showrooms in Patna for the wedding function of Lalu's eldest daughter Misa Bharti in December 1999.
 
 "The incident showed the original traits and culture of the RJD and its workers. If Lalu and his family are not able to control their own 'rowdy' workers, how can they claim to govern a state," JD (U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said.
 
 
 
 Congress chief   and his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra did not attend Tej's wedding even though his sisters Raj Lakshmi Yadav and Ragini Yadav had personally invited Sonia Gandhi for the event. Rahul, however, extended his good wishes over the phone to Lalu and his family on Saturday. "Rahul had called Tejashwi and talked to Lalu ji and Rabri ji as well," a close aide of Tejashwi told TOI.
 
 
