Ranchi: Several hundred tribals and devotees from other communities gathered at Argora located at Shiv Mandir on the eight day of  , an age old annual ritual to appease the gods for good rainfall and bumper crops. 

 While the male devotees, called Bhoktas ranging from age seven to 70, observe a nine-day fast for the grand ritual, the female devotees, known as Sahayikas, assist them in the grand ritualistic festivities that include Betjori, a custom of rolling on the ground bare bodied with a stick and Fulkunda, walking on burning coal embers.
 
 Ajay Kumar Sahu, a Bhokta in his sixties, said his ancestors, including his father and grandfather, had observed the fast for Manda Puja over the years. “The festival is in honour of Lord Shiva and Parvati and the male devotees who observe the fast are called Bhoktas. The rituals of Manda Puja are simply a test of one’s devotion and faith.” He added, “Over the centuries, the local people have observed the rituals as a tribute to the gods in exchange for good fortune for the rest of the year. The walking on fire or rolling on the ground is our way of appeasing the deities.”
 
 The festivities, which began on April 22, started with a fast and daily offering at the temple. On the eighth day, the Bhoktas gathered for a grand show of faith and belief as they took a dip in the nearby pond and rolled bare bodied on the ground with a ‘bet’ (stick) in the grand ritual of Betjori or Lotan Sewa.
 
 “The ritual of Lotan Sewa is followed by Dhuwasi, where all the Bhoktas are hung upside down on a bamboo apparatus one by one. The set-up is rotated by other Bhoktas and the hanging Bhokta needs to balance on it. The ritual is followed by Barmangi, where unmarried women Sahayika-s pray to the gods for a good husband,” said Bideshi Yadav, the temple’s priest. “The history of Manda Puja goes back to several centuries, and devotees travel several kilometres to the temple for the rituals every year,” he added. After sundown, devotees, both male and female also walked on burning embers, in a ritual called Fulhundi.
 
 
