PUDUCHERRY: A day before the admission deadline (3.30pm on April 20), three   in the Union territory of   have not admitted any students allotted seats by the   (Centac) under government or management quota.

 Centac, which released the merit lists of students on April 9, allotted seats for the students under government and management quotas in the lone government college and three private medical colleges on April 11 directing them to join the respective colleges before 3.30pm on April 20.
 
 The committee allotted 83 of the total 84 seats under government quota and 43 of the total 81 seats under management quota for postgraduate medical programs offered by Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute,  ,   (religious minority institution) ( ) and   (linguistic minority institution).
 
 But, neither the students allotted seats under government quota nor those allotted seats under management quota could join as on Thursday (April 19) as the three private colleges have been denying admission citing one reason or other since April 11. The fee committee fixed Rs 6.78 lakh per annum as the fees under government quota and Rs 20.34 lakh per annum under management quota. One of the private colleges denied seat for a student under government quota as the student was not ready to pay Rs 12 lakh per annum as fees (instead of Rs 6.78 lakh per annum fixed by the committee).
 
 Another private college asked a student, who was allotted seats under management quota, to pay Rs 35 lakh per annum as the fees (instead of Rs 20.34 lakh per annum fixed by the committee). The college denied admission when the student refused to pay more than the fees fixed by the committee.
 
 The representatives of the students and parents’ forums said the private medical colleges have hatched plots to deny seats to the meritorious students by asking them to pay higher fees and sign ‘unrealistic bonds’ to serve the college after the course without any stipend during the training period as the senior resident doctor.
 
 They said the private colleges will drag on the issue to an extent that the meritorious students, who will neither be in a position to mobilize the exorbitant fees nor sign unrealistic bonds, will finally opt out. The private colleges will fill those seats with medical aspirants willing to pay the fees they demand and comply with their terms and conditions.
 
 
