BHOPAL:   ( ) is pushing for a real-time testing of air and water quality in the state.

  After installing facilities for real-time water quality testing of Narmada at Omkareshwar and Upper Lake, Bhopal, MPPCB plans to set up similar facilities at 14 locations on Narmada along its route in the state from Amarkantak to   and at Boat Club, Upper Lake. Tenders have been floated and work on the project is likely to commence soon, said MPPCB chairman Anupam Rajan. Besides, the board has also increased the number of locations to 50 from 22, from where water of Narmada is collected for testing in labs.
 
 In the real-time testing of water quality, quantity of DO (dissolved oxygen) and BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) in water is measured every two minutes and displayed on the screen installed at that point. More DO and lesser BOD means better quality of water.
 
 The facility was recently installed at Omkareshwar by the board on its own, but now it is seeking to involve private parties. “Real-time testing not only informs people about quality of water but is also likely to create awareness about pollution and inspire them to do their bit to keep the water clean. We have the facility at Omkareshwar and VIP Road on Upper Lake as of now and another would come up Boat Club soon. Real-time test facility along the route of Narmada would be installed by private parties, we have incited tenders for the purpose,” said Rajan.
 
 Similarly, real-time test facility for air quality is available at five places which includes mainly the industrial hubs of Mandideep, Dewas, Singrauli, Peethampur and Ujjain. 
 
 Now, the board is working to have this facility at all the district headquarters of the state. Rajan has had meeting with   (CPCB) chairman a couple of days before to seek financial help for the project.
 
 “It’s a costly proposition. Installation of facility at one point takes about one crore rupees. But it is worth it. It keeps people constantly aware of air quality in their city or town and if it’s bad remedial measures may follow immediately at the local level itself.”
 
 “We are seeking central aid. Let’s see what we get from there, rest of the amount we shall arrange,” he said.
 
 He said real-time air quality test is similar to water quality test, but in the former, there are 12 parameters and on which, every two minutes, air quality at a particular location is flashed on the screen. The 12 parameters, which decide the air quality, include quantity of NO2, SO2, ozone, volatile organic carbon, ammonia, lead among others.
 
 As of now, MPPCB mobile vans are sent to every district headquarters once in a month to test the air quality. 
 
 But it is not enough to give a correct picture of the air quality at a location. “People in Delhi wait for rains so that air pollution goes down. Season is a major factor in aiding or curbing air pollution in our country. Therefore, we wish real-time testing facility was available at all the district headquarters,” said Rajan.
 
 
