MADURAI: The parents of a 21-year-old youth who have been running from pillar to post to ascertain whether their son had died in   a year ago as was alleged have finally got confirmation that he was dead. Though the mortal remains purported to have been those of   were brought to India subsequently, his parents,   and  , had refused to believe they were his. On Tuesday, the forensic report submitted before the Madurai bench of the Madras high court confirmed that the person to whom the skull and femur belonged to was their biological son. 

 Gopalakrishnan had gone to Qatar for a job in February 2016 and had spoken to his parents last on December 10 that year. His roommate,  , had informed Amirthavalli that her son had gone missing from December 13. When she asked her relative in Qatar to enquire with the company about her son, they were told that he had gone missing. Later, the company informed the mother that a dead body found there appeared to be that of her son. Though she asked her relative to identify the dead body, he was not allowed to see the body. She sent a representation to the   collector on December 23 seeking action to trace her son. The collector asked her to petition the commissioner of rehabilitation and welfare of non-resident Tamils in Chennai. The mother then took up the matter with the high commissioner of India in Qatar by way of a representation on January 30. 
 
 With no action coming, she filed a case a year ago stating that it was said that her son had committed suicide in Qatar. However, there was a doubt with regard to the identity of the body that was sent to India. In April last year, the court ordered DNA examination to ascertain the identity of the body and file a report in this regard. Though blood samples were taken from the petitioner and her husband, there was no further development in the case. 
 
 Following this, she filed another petition in the high court. When the case came up for hearing before the division bench, petitioner’s counsel told the court that the forensic science department and the police in   district had failed to obey the court order. Subsequently, the court on April 26 directed the forensic department to send the report to the police concerned in four weeks. The inspector of police of   promised to take steps to get the DNA test report , but nothing more was done, the counsel said. 
 
 The police claimed that as per the post mortem report that had come from Qatar, the mortal remains belonged to the petitioner’s son. However, the parents were firm in their stand that he would not have taken a decision to end his life. Hence, it was necessary to direct the central and state governments to unearth the truth and direct to file a report before the court. Following this, the court directed the forensic department to file a report before the court.
 
 
