MADURAI: Leafy greens (Keerai) cultivated in the farmlands abutting the   sewage farm and sold at the   market could be unsafe for human consumption due to heavy metal poisoning.

 For over 40 years, farms near the 125 MLD capacity plant have been using treated sewerage water released from the facility for crop irrigation. TOI spoke to farmhands working in the fields who said that leafy greens like ponnangani, agathi, thandu and mulai keerai were grown.
 
 “It is treated waste water and not harmful to the crops,” said farm worker Balakrishnan. Ambika, another farmhand, said that the quality of waste water being let out from the plant had improved in the last five years. “Black, foul smelling water is what we used to get from the plant. Now, the foul smell has reduced,” she said.
 
 A TOI investigation, however, revealed that untreated waste water is let out into a channel that leads to the Avaniapuram tank. From this channel, multiple pipes and hand dug channels take the waste water back into the farms. When asked to comment on the untreated waste water discharge, corporation officials blamed the farm owners for illegally diverting the water to irrigate their land.
 
 According to the ‘Research Journal of Chemical and Environmental Sciences’ published by the Academy for Environment and Life Sciences in June 2017, a study to detect heavy metal concentration in leafy greens cultivated at Avaniapuram revealed presence of Chromium, Cadmium, Lead and Nickel, which were found to be multiple times higher than the permissible limits. “...heavy metal levels were found to be very high because sewage water was enriched with these elements, thus contaminating the soil and the vegetables,” the study noted, adding that leafy vegetables had the tendency to absorb the metals through leaves.
 
 P S  , president of Maatuthavani market's association for vegetable wholesalers, told TOI that more than half the total leafy greens sold in the market came from Avaniapuram farms. “At least 1.5 tonnes (of produce) from Avaniapuram are brought to Maatuthavani every day. The keerai does not taste well. Most people in Madurai do not know that it is cultivated in sewage water,” he said.
 
 Using sewage water to cultivate leafy greens should be discouraged, said N Mathivanan, director,   (CAS-B), university of Madras. “The plants may not show the toxins. The problem is these metals cannot be washed off or disintegrate if boiled. Heavy elements have a boiling point over 200 degrees whereas our cooking is mostly done at over 100 degrees,” said Mathivanan.
 
 But   appears unperturbed by the potential health hazard growing in their backyard. Corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar told TOI that it would not be possible to check for toxin infusion in farmlands. He said toxin levels in the treated water were well within permissible limits. 
 
 
