GURUGRAM: Environmentalists on Sunday alerted the deputy commissioner about construction and demolition (C&D) waste being illegally dumped in the bed of   jheel, which plays an important role in preventing waterlogging in the city during monsoon, besides being one of the city’s most significant water reservoirs.

 According to environmental analyst Chetan Agarwal, who reported the violation, C&D waste is being dumped by contractors hired by builders of various projects along the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR). “A case of dumping of C&D waste was observed today (March 18) at the water body, adjacent to SPR, near Vatika Chowk. This was in addition to mounds of C&D waste dumped there earlier. This water body is among those identified for preservation in the extensive water body mapping exercise recently conducted under your chairmanship and submitted to NGT. I shall be grateful if the district administration protects the area with a physical fence, and also get the C&D waste removed, so that rainwater can collect in it and permeate into the ground, reducing the intensity of flooding that usually occurs at Vatika Chowk,” wrote Agarwal in his letter to the deputy commissioner.
 
 “Construction along SPR is generating substantial volumes of C&D waste, the dumping of which is a ongoing threat to our water bodies and green belts. The administration faces a challenge to keep a check over illegal dumping. We need to devise a system where the waste generator, the transporter and the authorised recipient sites are all monitored, so that the law-breakers have an incentive to comply,” said Agarwal.
 
 Vaishali Rana Chandra, another environmentalist, said, “Blocking the natural path of water at Badshapur jheel is disastrous. It can lead to massive flooding, as construction debris chokes the drain and jheel. Waterlogging will flood roads, leading to another nightmarish traffic jam like 2016. And all this because of lax attitude of the authorities. If the Delhi administration can hire a security agency to patrol   banks 24x7 to check illegal dumping, why can’t Gurugram?”
 
 The importance of Badshapur jheel and drain came to light after the ‘Gurujam’ in July 2016. The jheel near Sohna road, which was once spread across 23,200 sq m, is still one of the city’s most important water bodies, as it is connected to several natural drains through  . However, its size has been reduced by half.
 
 Badshapur drain is at least 28km-long. Two major natural drains in the city —   drain near DLF 3 and L2 drain in Old Gurugram— besides many smaller drains, flow into it, though over the years, roads, housing projects and full-fledged   sectors have come up in its catchment area.
 
 As per the Survey of India map of Gurugram district from 1976, the drain originates in the Mehrauli area of  , enters Gurugram near Gwal Pahari across the Gurugram-Faridabad highway, eventually merging with the Ghata bund. From there, it meanders to Sohna road, where other feeder streams and tributaries join it. From Sohna road, it crosses NH-8, re-enters Delhi and merges with Najafagarh drain.
 
 The catchment of Badshapur jheel, drain and its tributaries cover most of the city, and act as brakes for the flow of storm water during monsoons, while also recharging groundwater reservoirs.
 
 
