CHANDIGARH: The main accused in   for recruitment of junior basic teachers (JBT) in Chandigarh in 2016,  , who is also known by various aliases like Sanjay Srivastav, Guruji and Masterji, and his accomplices Shailesh Kumar and Shiv Bahadur were master fraudsters.

 According to the charge sheet filed in the Chandigarh district court, Pandey and his accomplices had leaked similar question papers in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Hyderabad and were linked with Madhya Pradesh’s Vyapam scam as well.
 
 
 A retired Army officer, Dinesh Yadav, was arrested for acting as an agent for the fraudsters. In Hyderabad, they had leaked a medical entrance exam in 2016 and leaked the question paper of the railway recruitment exam in Lucknow in 2006. They have been active since 2005.
  
  
 Six FIRs have been lodged against the three main accused for various recruitment scams, including four in Punjab, one in UP and one in Hyderabad. All the accomplices used to act as agents and reported to the main kingpin, who directed them to delegate responsibilities to others to find candidates who could buy leaked question papers.
 
 In 2006, this group of fraudsters was booked by the police for leaking the question paper of the railway recruitment exam in Lucknow. Later, the gang got involved in leaking many question papers for entrance examinations. Guruji, Shailesh Kumar and Shiv Bahadur have been involved in leaking various examinations — railway recruitment in Lucknow, senior assistants and SDOs for Punjab municipal corporations, Grade 1inspector recruitment by Punjab police, SDO recruitment in Punjab irrigation department, medical entrance in Hyderabad, Telangana paper leak, recruitment of junior basic teachers and trained graduate teachers in Chandigarh.
 
 
 
 
 The Chandigarh police submitted a charge sheet against 17 accused, including Pandey, Kumar and Bahadur in the Chandigarh district court last week for leaking question paper set to recruit 1,150 junior basic training (JBT), trained graduate teachers (TGTs) and nursery training teachers (NTTs).
 
 Running into 1,000 pages, the charge sheet names 60 witnesses. It clearly stated that Sanjay Srivastav aka Mithilesh Pandey is the kingpin of the scam and Bahadur, Kumar along with Dinesh Yadav and   have been made his main partners in the case.
 
 According to the charges, Kumar along with Bahadur leaked the   from the printing press located in New Delhi’s Mayapuri area and it was handed over to Sanjay Srivastav alias Guruji. The kingpin then handed over the responsibility of looking for candidates who could buy the leaked question paper to Yadav. The leaked question paper was later sold for more than Rs 7 lakh per candidate.
 
 The accused and their touts charged anything between Rs 10 lakh and 40 lakh per candidate for the leaked question paper. The candidates were formally trained by the accused in answering the right answers using the leaked questions. One of the accused, Brijender Nain took 34 candidates to Lucknow in  
 
