PUNE: The neighbourhood raddiwala has had it bad for some time. He cannot do as brisk a business today as he could have hoped to some decades ago.

 With people increasingly consuming news on smartphones, their mainstay – of buying and selling old newspapers at a profit – had been hit hard. Now with the state government imposing a  , their income has nosedived further.
 
 Raddiwalas claimed that the ban on plastic has prompted a sudden change of heart among the residents in the city. Instead of disposing of old newspapers to them, as is the practice in many households, they have started donating them to organisations and NGOs manufacturing paper bags and allied products.
 
 “I have been buying newspapers and scrap items from residents in Salunke Vihar Road for the past several decades. However, over the years we have seen a reduction in the amount of newspapers we collect. The change has been more evident since the plastic ban was announced. We would collect nearly 150 kg of newspapers per week some years ago. Now we collect less than 100 kg per week. As we deal in scraps too, we are able to survive somehow but those dealing only in newspapers have been hit hard post the plastic ban," said Suresh Pokal, a scrap dealer in Salunke Vihar Road.
 
 Mahesh Parkhe of Laxminarayan Raddi Kendra on Bhandarkar Road, said, “The overall purchase of newspapers seems to have dropped in this area. While people would purchase four newspapers some years ago, they buy only one or two. This trend has been eating into our incomes. We now rely more on collection of study books, notebooks and the likes rather than newspapers.”
 
 While roadside raddiwalas bear the brunt of the ban, waste paper and e-waste re-cycling portal Raddiwala plans to make the most of it. “We have been getting a lot of enquiries from various organisations for purchase of newspapers in our stock. While earlier we would sell the papers for recycling, we are considering selling them to these organisations. We pay Rs 8 per kg to customers and sell them for Rs 11 to companies which recycle scrap. We now plan to sell the newspapers at Rs 14 per kg to organisations which make paper bags,” said Priyanka Khairnar, owner, Raddiwala.
 
 She said her company also has plans to make paper bags from old newspapers collected by them on a daily basis.
 
 
