BENGALURU: With hardly two weeks left to avail the 5% rebate on property tax, multiple hurdles have ticked off citizens. Many BBMP ward offices which generate challans are either shut or not accepting payments due to staff crunch as most officials are on poll duty. Many banks, which should have separate counters for tax payments, are not adhering to guidelines and shooing away taxpayers citing server problems or other glitches. Even the online payment system isn’t smooth, rue citizens.

 KP Rao, a resident of Nayandahalli ward in west Bengaluru, visited the BBMP ward office twice in the past two days only to find it closed. “A Group-D employee said officials have gone for an election-related meeting. He said taxpayers are likely to face the problem till elections are over,” he added.
 
 
  
 Prathima J, a resident of Mahadevapura, expressed similar concerns. “The Palike should make sure at least a few revenue officials are present in ward offices. If not, it should extend the rebate deadline till May-end,” she added. The last date to avail the facility is April 30, 2018.
 
 Rakshith K, a taxpayer from  , said the civic agency had claimed that all branches of Canara Bank, HDFC, Axis Bank and ICICI will facilitate property tax payments. “At the ICICI branch in Chandra Layout, I was told they were not accepting payments and was asked to visit another branch about 3km away. Even at the HDFC branch in the same area, staffers made me wait for more than 30 minutes only to say the server wasn’t responding. How can they take taxpayers for granted,” he wondered. 
 
 The online mode of payment is also plagued by problems. Dakshin L, a resident of Hebbal, said the website is slow and often hangs altogether. 
 
 Repeated attempts to contact M Venkatachalapa thy, joint commissioner (revenue), BBMP, went in vain. BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad, who’s also Bengaluru district election officer, requested people to use the online mode in the meantime, promising to address the staff shortage and other problems.
 
 
 A makeshift office has been opened near the parking area on the BBMP office premises near   for people to make payments. However, only one counter is functional and there’s no notice near the main office directing people to the counter. Revenue inspector   said an official is supposed to be present in the main office at all times for redressal of complaints but no one is seen there.
 
 A senior BBMP official said they have collected around Rs 240 crore property tax beginning April 1, of which about Rs 111 crore has been paid via the online mode. “Last year, we had racked up about Rs 450 crore for April. This time also, we are hoping the payments will pick up in the last week of the rebate month as is the case every year. More than 10,000 challans have been generated by taxpayers at BBMP offices but payments haven’t been made. Once these payments are made, the total figure for the month will easily surpass last year’s collection,” he added. The official said they are in talks with banks to ensure payments are facilitated.
 
 (With inputs from Priya Bhat M and Jennifer Hanna Charles)
 
 
