State BSP chief N Mahesh is contesting from Kollegal (SC) constituency in Chamarajanagar district for the fourth time in a row. Mahesh, a former KAS officer, worked hard in bringing the JD(S) and BSP to the negotiation table in the state and striking an alliance, which, he expects, will help the partners in the state assembly elections. 

 In an interview to The Times of India, he stated that the alliance is a win-win formula for both the parties and BSP may win in at least 5 constituencies. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 
 In 1993, BSP and SP fought the UP state assembly election together and won. We are repeating such an experiment in Karnataka. That is why we have joined hands with the JD(S). We are confident of the alliance winning in this election.
 
 
 
 Yes. We are confident of transferring the JD(S) votes to BSP and vice versa. It is the Congress votes which generally do not get transferred to the BSP.
 
 
 
 We are expecting Behenji’s state visit in the last week of April. Discussions are on about her itinerary. Party state in-charge Ashok Siddharth is already touring the state and campaigning for the alliance.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t know. But I am confident of continuation of this alliance and Behenji has already given a hint in this regard. In Uttar pradesh, the party has joined hands with the SP to defeat anti-constitutional forces. So, I think this alliance will continue in the 2019 Lok Sabha election also.
 
 
 
 
 Farm distress is one of the major issues. We have already assured a farm loan waiver if the alliance comes to power. Unemployment has become a social problem. This should be addressed at the earliest. Crumbling infrastructure, water woes, scientific water utilization measures, groundwater exploitation, financial crisis faced by women self-help groups are some of the issues. We need to address them all.
 
 
 
 We have made our stand clear. The reservation should be provided proportionately to the population. So, we support the Justice Sadashiva Commission report and internal reservation.
 
 
 
 The Kollegal constituency lags behind on all the developmental parameters. It is an election issue. I am fighting for various facilities from many years and have visited every part of the constituency. This time I am confident that people will vote for development. The BSP and JD(S) alliance will definitely ensure my victory. Besides Kollegal, we are expecting victory in at least 5 constituencies, including Anekal in Bengaluru Rural and Chikkodi in Belagavi district.
 
 
