UDAIPUR: Fifteen Sindhi refugees from Pakistan took oath of allegiance as a part of the process to get Indian citizenship on Monday.

 ADM (city)   administered the oath to the applicants that included eight men and seven women. Among the applicants were a differently abled girl and a pregnant woman. The refugees had been yearning for Indian citizenship and identity which they believe would remove all the hurdles they face presently. 
 
 In the next stage, their applications would be sent to Jaipur for the state government's approval to issue them citizenship certificates, sources said. Few weeks ago, 42 persons were similarly administered the allegiance oath, however, they are yet to receive citizenship certificates.
 
 As per rough estimates, there are over 2 lakh minority refugees from Bangladesh, Afghanistan and Pakistan settled in several cities across the country. Some 100 such people are living in Udaipur in Sindhi settlements at   and JawaharNagar area. 
 
 These people migrated from Pakistan and come here to settle with their relatives between 2001-09. These refugees, who had left their possessions, homes and even families in search for a better living in India, have been facing much hardships and discriminations here as well. With no access to identity cards like Aadhaar, ration card, PAN or even a driving licence, they have to struggle for existence to get some work for a living. 
 
 Some of the people are so poor that they cannot afford education or medical facilities. Without the Indian citizenship, they are unable to get access to various welfare schemes of the government. The refugees are not allowed even free movement and are not permitted to leave the city where they live.
 
 On several occasions, they are subjected to police interrogation and occasional seizure of carriages. Many of the refugees here sell vegetables and fruits. Some women take up stitching jobs for a living. Though, their children manage to get admissions in schools, the procedural delays and inconveniences have become a part of their daily life.
 
 
