One fine day in December, 1978, long before the advent of fake news, the 8.10 am All India Radio news bulletin said "Life in Bombay is normal". On hearing this, a Dadar resident stepped into his balcony and noticed that there wasn't a single taxi or bus on the road. It was so quiet that he could hear a street dog barking. "AIR is normal, as usual," he thought to himself. 

 In AIR's defense, this was a time in the city when 'bandhs' had become so common that people looked forward to the unpaid holiday marked by vehicle-free roads and an outbreak of gully cricket. It came often thanks to a bespectacled, kurta-clad man prone to lying on railway tracks. 
 
 Former trade unionist and firebrand leader of organised labour in various sectors, George Fernandes is said to have gifted the word 'bandh' to the English language. He came to be known as "George, the bandh-maker" for being at the forefront of various bandhs with grassroots workers and was often at the receiving end of the policeman's baton in the 1970s. Before this period, it was inconceivable that millions of professionals could be persuaded to strike work. Fernandes succeeded by influencing the unions of transport employees such as BEST, railways and taxis. Once the people had no means to go to work, they would stay away.
 
 For almost two decades, this is how every bandh panned out before it went rogue in the city in the 1980s and started leaving wounds in its wake as did the recent   that was called by Dalit organisations to protest the alleged violence against them. 
 
 It was in July 1958, even before   was formed, that post-Independence Bombay saw its first bandh. Organised by Fernandes on behalf of workers of an automobile firm struggling for the right to choose their own union, it had passed off peacefully. Later, willy-nilly, the city hosted three bandhs in 1963, 1964 and 1966 each-all of them incidentally in the month of August.
 
 While the bandh on August 20, 1963, was in sympathy with the municipal workers-not one of the then 64 textile mills was able to operate on this day-the two subsequent bandhs were both against rising prices. This was when Fernandes gave himself the designation of 'convener of Anti-Price-Rise, Anti-Unemployment and Anti-Starvation Committee', hawkers struck work and street lights burned all day since the Bombay Gas Company was the first to heed the call. 
 
 With their moral core, not only did these bandhs bear the same public legitimacy that marked pre-Independence movements such as the Satyagraha but also betrayed the angry, golden-hearted, working-class appeal that almost all of Amitabh Bachchan's onscreen characters enjoyed in the 1970s. Take the bandh in 1972, for instance, which protested the state's "inadequate" measures to combat the famine or the in 1982 supporting the textile worker's struggle.
 
  The sight of large crowds walking to work vanished by 1974-a year when Bombay saw seven bandhs in the first six months. During one bandh that year, rail and road transport systems were immobilised, restaurants remained shut and no letters were delivered. Shops though remained open and Strand cinema at Colaba saw relaxed patrons.
 
  Later though, in the 1980s, when the Shiv Sena's political graph rose, the success of bandhs depended on the party's support. This was when the common man became cannon fodder during bandhs, shops started downing their shutters fearing vandalism and people stayed home for fear of their car window panes being smashed. A marked feature of a bandh organised by local units of the   in 1984-provoked by the alleged "insult" to their leader-was rumour-mongering by the public. Newspaper offices at this time were flooded with calls about trouble in different areas which turned out to be unfounded.
 
 Most opposition-sponsored bandhs floundered in the 1980s with two exceptions. The first one, in January 1984, saw trade unionist Datta Samant and Sena chief Bal Thackeray engineering the Bombay-Thane-Belapur-Raigad bandh to condemn the police firing on agitators in Uran demanding compensation for land taken over for the Nhava Sheva project. Former PM Indira Gandhi's assasination in 1984 too led to a successful , albeit violent, bandh. Following Rajiv Gandhi's assassination in 1991, though, the tense city's shutdown was total.
 
 The unpaid holiday also had curious beneficiaries. During a bandh in November 1994 - when a Japanese tourist inside a Maruti van near Dadar's Shiv Sena Bhavan took a stone missile in the stomach-an elephant near Andheri was enjoying a blissful day off. It trumpeted as his mahout splashed it with cold water, amusing the police picket nearby. Indeed, life in Bombay was normal. 
 
 
