Challenges for Punjab chief minister   seem to be emerging more from within his own government and the Congress, rather than from without. This is in complete contrast to the SAD (Badal)-BJP government that was in power for 10 years before the   toppled it last year and came to power with a massive majority of 77 seats in a House of 117.
 
 During their tenure, then chief minister   and his son Sukhbir maintained a firm grip on the Akalis, restricting the rebellion to just a handful of names. But they could not manage the resentment in the voters and finished third in the assembly elections.
 
 Amarinder’s troubles started within three months of coming to power when it was revealed that power and irrigation minister   had allegedly put up his own ex-employees from a sugar mill as bidders in the state government’s first online sand-mining auction. Amit Bahadur, Gurjit’s former cook, was among those who bagged the contract for a sand mine in Nawanshahr for Rs 26.51 crore. Three other former employees successfully bid for Rs 4.11 crore, Rs 9.21 crore and Rs 10.58 crore.
 
 This dented Amarinder’s attempt to project the government as corruption-free and transparent. The Justice Narang Commission was set up to look into the allegations and gave Gurjit a clean chit. But there still wasn’t enough sand left to bury the issue as it remained politically volatile until Gurjit put in his papers as minister on January 4.
 
 Gurjit is considered a close confidante of Amarinder. It is believed that Congress president Rahul Gandhi too was keen to see the back of Gurjit as he would have found it difficult to carry the baggage of a corruption case against a Congress minister while campaigning in other states ahead of assembly elections.
 
 Just when things seemed to settle down a little, some 40 MLAs of the Congress wrote a letter to Amarinder saying he should act against those Akali leaders who were allegedly involved in drug cases. They insisted that this was a poll promise to the people that could not be broken. Amarinder, however, remained firm under pressure and said he would act only in accordance with the law.
 
 Just as Rana’s resignation hit the headlines, Amarinder’s other trusted aide — his chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar — left the CMO after the Punjab and Haryana high court scrapped his appointment. His appointment was first scrapped by a single bench of the court and later stayed by a division bench, allowing him to return to Amarinder’s side.
 
 Amid all this, however, there was a strong belief that a retired bureaucrat being appointed to the CMO with wideranging powers had upset many serving bureaucrats and also some in Amarinder’s inner circle. Kumar himself was not keen to return to the powerful position until the division bench gave its final order, but he has since relented.
 
 There was also a brief but significant moment of unease between local bodies minister   and Amarinder. Sidhu claimed that he was neither involved in the process of selecting the mayor in his hometown, Amritsar, and was not invited to the oath-taking ceremony of the newly-elected councillors. This issue became an embarrassment for Congress party as well as the government, but since then Sidhu has patched both with the party and mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu.
 
 The restlessness within the government came through also when Moga SSP Raj Jit Singh moved the Punjab and Haryana high court and alleged that the chief of the special task force (STF) on drugs, ADGP H S Sidhu, nursed a personal grudge against him. The allegations came following the arrest of Punjab Police inspector Inderjeet Singh from whom drugs and illegal weapons were recovered and the case was projected as among the biggest operations yet by the STF. Sidhu was handpicked by Amarinder to head the STF. The development shocked both politicians and officers as a Punjab Police Service (PPS) officer was openly going against a top police officer, who is close to the chief minister.
 
 “The chief minister needs to assert himself more and intervene actively to end the intrigues from within,” a senior Congress leader said. “The need is to put our own house in order as Punjab remains nationally important for the Congress. When the issue of sand mining has already claimed a minister, the government needs to crack down on illegal mining and the action should be visible.”
 
 Allegations of ‘goonda tax’ around Bathinda refinery have also dented the image of the state government.
 
 “The political scenario of Punjab clearly suggests that both SAD and AAP have not yet recovered from their loss in the 2017 assembly elections, but the Congress’s image has taken a beating. Punjab is in very bad shape and needs to be run effectively. The internal bickering and intrigues are set to take the steam out further,” said Dr Joginder Singh Puar, former vice-chancellor of Punjabi University, Patiala, who is also a keen political observer.
 
