THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government handed over the Union government's notification ordering a   probe into the death of S R  , who died in police custody, to his brother   on Friday. However, Sreejith, who has been on an indefinite protest in front of state secretariat, has refused to withdraw his strike until the agency actually begins the probe. 

 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan's private secretary and CPM leader   called on Sreejith and handed over a copy of the Union government's order dated January 18 for the CBI inquiry. Jayarajan claimed that the state government has honoured three major demands raised by Sreejith and his mother and requested him to end his protest.
 
 He said the state government has been able to successfully persuade the Union government to order a CBI inquiry and has taken steps to vacate the high court's order stalling proceedings against the police personnel allegedly involved in Sreejeev's death.
 
  The HC had stayed the proceedings on the state police complaint authority's findings that three police men were responsible for his death. The DGP has also given orders to probe Sreejith's mother's complaint that policemen has been harassing her.
 
 But Sreejith, who met chief minister last week, said the order for CBI inquiry cannot be construed as a victory. "The government could have done it well in advance. I don't think the order serves my purpose in any way. Let the CBI begin the probe, then only I would end my protest," he said.
 
 Sreejith's strike became the centre of attraction recently after social media users rallied behind him, followed by leaders of main stream political parties who came out in support of him.
 
  MP and K C Venugopal M P of the   have on the other day called for a CBI inquiry. 
 
 The Union government had earlier ruled out the state government's request for CBI inquiry into the custodial death. Following the orders of the police complaint authority, the state government had earlier handed over a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to Sreejeev's family.
 
 
