BENGALURU: Citizens and heritage enthusiasts on Wednesday urged the government to drop its plan, if any, to raze the 83-year-old heritage   building on Kempe Gowda Road, and replace it with a multi-storey structure. 

 Meera Iyer, convener, Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach), Bengaluru chapter, said in a letter to Lakshmi Narayana, additional chief secretary, public works department, under whose jurisdiction the structure falls, that the building was declared open to the public on September 11, 1935, by then Yuvaraja of Mysore Kanteerava Narasimharaja Wadiyar. “The building has strong sentimental associations for many people,” she wrote.
 
 Meera said there’s an argument that the building is considered unsafe and hence, needs to be demolished. “This is old-fashioned thinking. We now have modern technology and methods to restore any structure. Experts can be called in to restore the building,” she said.
 
 Experts said Janatha Bazaar is listed as a heritage building in the draft Revised Master Plan 2031 released by the BDA recently. “Though the plan hasn’t yet been approved, we hope the government will abide by regulations that it has formulated,” said another heritage expert.
 
 The bazaar building adheres to the public architecture style propagated by the Wadiyars in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Heritage experts describe it as a colonial structure with a Mysurean twist. It was built to house Asiatic Government Security Life Assurance Company Limited.
 
 Government sources said the PWD plans to demolish the market complex, which is popular with lower middle income groups in the city, and construct an eight-storey commercial complex in its place. The existing one is being operated by the   (KCCF), which pays a monthly rent to the PWD, as per a 50-year-old agreement renewed every year. The agreement was not renewed after 2013-14, and the PWD had asked KCCF to vacate the building last November to construct a commercial building, they added.
 
 Usha Srinath, a third generation Bengalurean and resident of BTM 2nd Stage, said it hurts whenever an old building is demolished in the city. “Only when people get together and raise their voice do governments listen,” she added.
 
 “We have not taken any decision yet on demolishing Janatha Bazaar. The building is old and unsafe and we are looking at its stability. Since the building is unsafe we have put a barricade around it,” said Lakshmi Narayana, additional chief secretary, public works department.
 
 Building barricaded
 
 Confusion prevailed on the premises of Janatha Bazaar on Wednesday when occupants and visitors were denied entry through the main gates. The gates were sealed overnight by private contractors as per the directions of the authorities and people had to wade through a narrow space beside. “We have no clue what the authorities are doing with this building. They have erected long barricades and sealed access points. They told us the building has stability issue,” said a staffer.
 
 A heritage enthusiast said the government is sending a wrong message to the occupants and the public by shutting down the gates. “The structure is not safe. It has developed a few cracks due to non-maintenance. Just like the Krumbiegel Hall in Lalbagh, which had to be razed owing to poor upkeep, the PWD seems to be waiting for the structure to crumble,” she added.
 
  
  
 
 
