CUTTACK: A day after rumours of an Odia question paper leak rattled the  , the body on Saturday issued advisories to all centre superintendents to ensure a complete ban on mobile phones inside matriculation exam centres. 

 The board has directed that except centre superintendents no other person will be allowed to carry mobile phones inside the exam centres. District education officers (DEO) have been asked to ensure that the order is implemented in letter and spirit.
 
 This is not the first time that the board has instructed centre superintendents to enforce a ban on mobile phones inside exam centres, however, on the first day of the matriculation exam on Friday, it was noticed that the order was not followed properly. 
 
 "Our officials visited different examination centres and found that the instructions were not strictly followed. The DEOs and centre superintendents have to ensure that no one carries a mobile phone, even if it is switched off, inside the exam centre," said board president Jahan Ara Begum.
 
 Strict action will be initiated against the centre superintendents if any violation of the order is found at their centre, added Begum. Only the centre superintendent is allowed to carry his phone so that she or he can inform the board if any exigency arises at the centre.
 
 Sources at the board office said the special squads formed to check malpractice have been directed to conduct checks to ensure that a mobile phone ban order is strictly implemented. At least 95 squads have been formed to keep watch on cheating in exam centres. 
 
 On Friday, nearly an hour after the commencement of the matriculation examination, photos of the Odia question paper went viral on social media leading to the spread of the rumour that the question paper has been leaked. 
 
 "The viral photo clips of the Odia question paper on social media clearly reflected that our mobile phone ban order was not enforced strictly at exam centres. But now we will show no leniency on the matter," said a senior board official.
 
 The board has also said that teachers coming to the exam centres to physically identify their students will not be allowed inside the campus and that they should identify students at the entrance gate itself.
 
 The board also said media persons will not be allowed inside the examination halls. "The media persons can cover the event from outside the main gate but they cannot enter exam halls as students are disturbed by their presence," said a board official.
 
 At least 5.90 lakh students are appearing for the matriculation examination at 2,818 centres across the state. The exams started on February 23 and will conclude on March 8.
 
 
