HUBBALLI: Beware, your   may be misused to make a  , with your name, gender and age, but a different postal address. 

 This happened in   Central constituency. Suresh, who is in his 50s and who did not wish not to reveal his second name, said he was born and brought up in Bharat Mill area, but came across such an incident in Janata Colony. “One of my acquaintances got another voter identity card with my name, age and my photo, which was uploaded as a profile picture a decade ago. I had replaced that photo with a recent one two years ago,” he said.
 
 He added that he filed an online complaint with the   and district administration. 
 
 “I also want an inquiry whether the vote was franchised or not, on the basis of the same voter ID. As soon as I got a clue of this fake card, I rushed to Janata Colony to verify whether there is a person with the same first and second names, and learnt that no one by the name resides at that address,” he explained.
 
 Aravind Meti, convener,  , said a thorough inquiry is necessary over such cards. “We suspect that there may be many more fake cards. The district administration should take a serious call on this and trace whether it was done intentionally to favour a party or candidate or because of wrong mapping by the Election Commission. How can such cards be created when attempts are on to seed all credentials with   number?” he asked.
 
 Meanwhile, some instances of pushing voters from their area to another one have come to light during the ongoing  . Gurappa C, a senior citizen of Old Hubballi, said his name was included in a polling booth of Padmaraj Nagar during the previous assembly elections. “I went to a nearby booth and found that my name was missing. Then my children and grandchildren searched for it on http://ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in and found that my name was shifted to a booth 2km away from my home. However, I went there and cast my vote,” he recalled.
 
 “I wanted to submit a grievance in this regard but officials said it’s unavoidable to shift some voters, when the number of voters for a booth is large. If I don’t get my name at a booth near my home, will the EC provide transportation? This is also one reason to push the polling percentage down,” he said.
 
 “We haven’t come across such complaints. Earlier, the Election Commission was taking pictures of voters directly. Now we are uploading pictures provided by voters. Usually, taking an FB photo on the voter identity card doesn’t happen at our office. If we get a specific complaint, we will definitely inquire into the matter. Currently, revision of voters’ list is going on in our office. Voters may file such grievances in a form prescribed by the EC, by January 22,” said  , commissioner, HDMC.
 
 
