BENGALURU: In a Twitter war between the   and chief minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday, the   fraud figured prominently.

 Siddaramaiah hit out at Prime Minister  , taking a dig at the Centre’s failure in apprehending the   fraudsters.
 
 “Dear PM @narendramodi, since you are fond of talking about commission let me ask you–– You made common people stand in queues to deposit their money in the Banks & then let #NiravModi run away with over 12,000 cr of people’s money. What percent of people’s money is that?” questioned Siddaramaiah.
 
 Siddaramaiah followed up with a tweet hitting out at Modi for accusing his government as a 10% commission one and that the Mysuru elected representative was only “digging” foundation stones and running away. “PM @narendramodi makes disparaging comments about certain Mysureans. Mysuru has produced Tigers who fought the British, built a modern state, brought land reforms. Some one from Mysuru would never have allowed a fugitive runaway with 11500 cr under his Chowkidari,” he said.
 
 The CM’s social media team went a step ahead with a cartoon of ordinary people standing in queues outside banks during the height of demonetisation, while a caricature shows Vijay Mallya and Nirav Modi blowing away the walls of the bank on one side.
 
 In response, taking a cue from the central leadership, BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa accused Siddaramaiah of allowing Choksi to run away from the country, despite court orders of keeping him within India.
 
 “Well well, this 'special someone' (who abandoned Mysuru), did allow the very same fugitive’s uncle #Choksi-Scam, to escape from Karnataka by flouting the Civil Court Order way back in 2015. This is none other than our own 
 . Is it part of #10PercentCM?” retorted Yeddyurappa.
 
 The BJP state president, who has a dedicated team of social media warriors, followed it up with another sarcastic tweet which said: “Of course I don’t see a point in questioning about why the civil court order wasn’t obeyed by the KA Govt under #10PercentCM @siddaramaiah. Because he is someone who doesn’t heed to nor respect the court orders and judgments. #ChoksiScam”
 
 
