CHANDIGARH: Rajya Sabha MP and senior   leader  , his brother and   from Qadian, Fateh Jang Singh Bajwa and their family members are in the dock for defaulting on a bank loan that has swelled to around Rs 30 crore over the years.

  The Chandigarh Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) has ordered the Bajwas to remain present in the next hearing of the case (March 13) filed against them by Punjab and Sind Bank. The presiding DRT officer,  , in the order on March 6, said that if they don't appear in person, an order will be passed ex-parte. 
  
  
 The bank had moved DRT on October 10 last year and on October 24, notices were issued to the MP, MLA, their mother Gurbachan Kaur, Fateh Jung's wife Haneela and Ferozepur resident Jagdish Bishnoi.
 
 The bank, through advocate I P Singh, has sought recovery of Rs 30.80 crore which includes interest and penal interest. The bank has said that the Bajwas will have to pay 18% interest and 2% penal interest annually till they don't pay back the loan. The bank has also sought directions from DRT to attach the properties mortgaged with them. These have been valued at Rs 2.97 crore.
 
 It was in January 1995 that the bank sanctioned a term loan of Rs 50 lakh with additional cash credit limited of Rs 1.03 crore to Bajwa Agro Industries Ltd at Qadian. The company, owned by Fateh Jang and promoted by Partap, was established in March 1993 and was engaged in edible oil and solvent extraction.
 
 In May 1999, Fateh Jang, Partap, Gurbachan Kaur and Haneela became guarantors to the total loan and admitted their liability as guarantors for Rs 2.04 crore. 
 
 
 
 
 In May 1999, Fateh Jang, Partap, Gurbachan Kaur and Haneela became guarantors to the total loan and admitted their liability as guarantors for Rs 2.04 crore. Bishnoi also mortgaged his property in Kharar. Later the company approached the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR) and was declared sick in April 2004.
 
 
 The bank has claimed that in September 2005 it asked the company to pay Rs 1 crore within 24 months under the one-time settlement scheme but it failed to pay up. BIFR dismissed the company’s case in September 2014 which was challenged before the Appellate Authority for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (AAIFR). 
 
 The appellate authority in turn referred the case back to BIFR. But the Union government repealed the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (SICA) from December 1, 2016, which dissolved the BIFR. Once, BIFR was dissolved, the case reached DRT.
 
 
