BENGALURU : A 11-year-old boy died after a roadroller hit his bicycle near Subramanyapura in   on Friday afternoon. The child was cycling towards his school to play cricket when the vehicle, which was reversing, knocked him down. 

 
  R Manu, a Class 5 student at a government school in Ganigarapalya, was the elder son of Ravikumar and Manjula, both construction workers and residents of Banashankari 6th Stage. Police are on the lookout for the driver, who fled the spot after the accident. 
 
 
 
  The accident triggered outrage in the neighbourhood as the residents staged a demonstration alleging that negligence on the part of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and   (BDA) during execution of road construction work led to it. 
 
 What angered the residents more was the fact that no one from the two agencies visited the bereaved family on Friday night. On Saturday morning, mayor R Sampath Raj announced a compensation of Rs five lakh for the family and ordered the suspension of BBMP assistant engineer Dayanand. Acting on the mayor's recommendation, BDA also suspended its assistant engineer Devaraj. Assistant executive engineer Honnaraju has been transferred and disciplinary action initiated against the contractor, BDA said in a press release.
 
  Police said the accident occurred at 3pm when Manu was riding towards his school ground, about 1.5km away from his house. "The school is closed for summer holidays but Manu and other boys would head to the ground to play cricket after breakfast and return by 1pm. After lunch, he would again step out to play and return after sunset," said  , Manu's uncle. 
 
 BBMP had taken up road asphalting in ward 198, Hemmigepura, and on Friday, the roadroller was busy levelling the stretch. Manu would take the same road while going to the playground, Bharath said.
 
 "Manu left home at 2.45pm on Friday and met with the accident. Eyewitness told me he was riding on left side of the road and the roadroller driver was reversing. Usually, there is an assistant to guide the driver and alert pedestrians and fellow motorists. But the driver was alone and failed to notice Manu riding the cycle. In no time, the roller rammed the cycle, throwing him on to road. Manu sustained serious head injuries," Bharath said.
 
 Police said the driver would have been driving at 10km per hour. "Had there been an assistant, the accident could have been averted," KS Layout traffic police said. A case has been booked against the unidentified driver under IPC Section 304A (causing death due to rash and negligent driving).
 
 
