CHANDIGARH: The   government has finally woken up to largescale illegal construction in  's   headquarters almost 15 years after many of these structures came up. 

 The state's town and country planning department has withdrawn change of land use (CLU) licences to 13 structures in the sprawling campus for violating various building bylaws and other norms. 
 
  
  
 
 Some of the buildings could well be demolished in the coming days as the department has issued directions to the district town planner to take necessary action.
 
 The list of illegal buildings includes what the dera calls, a 'world class' cricket stadium which has the first automated pitch cover designed and developed by the jailed dera chief  . 
 
 Other buildings that violate various laws include a movie hall, two farmhouses, an industrial unit, three godowns and some religious buildings.
 
 Major irregularities, that the department identified, include constructing buildings on land exclusively meant for agriculture, unauthorized construction and violation of several procedures required to get change of land use (CLU) licences.
 
 For instance, the industrial unit was set up without a no objection certificate from the Haryana Pollution Control Board (HPCB). Both the cricket stadium and the cinema hall were built on agricultural land.
 
 Details of the 13 buildings whose CLU permissions have been revoked were included in a six-page report that Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary of the department of town and country planning, submitted to the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday.
 
 The report was submitted before a full bench headed by Justice Surya Kant in response to an ongoing petition on dera violence that had erupted in Panchkula after Gurmeet’s conviction in rape cases.
 
 The permissions were withdrawn on March 28 after taking the legal advice from the advocate general and other authorities. The department insisted that no undue favour was extended to the dera in granting permissions.
 
 Now senior advocate Anupam Gupta who is assisting the court as amicus curiae in the case would address the full bench regarding violations of building bylaws by the dera and favours given by the state government to the dera management.
 
 
