JAIPUR: On the first day of the three-day door-to-door   launched in the city, health authorities reached at the doorsteps of the people for checking their health. They conducted activities to prevent spread of   and mosquito-borne diseases covering 43,708 houses in 91 municipal wards on Monday.

 Since, dengue and chikungunya along with swine flu have reported simultaneously, the health department officials reached houses of the people to check the spread of the diseases. Even senior health department officials additional director (rural health) Dr  , joint director Dr SN Dholpura, assistant registrar Shashikant Sharma, state epidemiologist Dr Deepa, stat entomologist Dr Joyti along with chief medical health officer Dr Narottam Sharma were also seen interacting with the people cross checking if the survey done was conducted in proper manner. They asked families if anyone is ill or unwell in the family. When they found that there was case of influenza like illness, they wrote it down in their list. However, till late in the evening the officials were busy in compiling the figures of people they found suffering from fever and mosquito borne diseases.
 
 “We are still compiling the figures,” a senior health department official said when asked about number of patients they have found on first day of campaign.
 
 The health authorities managed to rope in 3,000 nursing students for conducting the survey. They were divided into teams and simultaneously they conducted door-to-door survey. At some places, the people reacted strangely when the teams asked them to check if they have water collected in flower pots, air coolers and at the rooftops. But, a lot many cooperated with the health teams. The teams were searching mosquito breeding grounds during inspection and they made people aware about it.
 
 The teams visited the   area, Mansarovar, Sanganer and other areas of Jaipur city and Jaipur rural.
 
 Additional chief secretary health   said the campaigned named ‘swasthya dal apke dwar’ has been launched with the help of  , district administration, private and government nursing colleges.
 
 She said that it has been launched with an aim to prevent spread of swine flu, dengue, chikungunya and malaria.
 
 JMC's two vehicle mounted fogging machine conducted fogging simultaneously in the city and there were two other portable fogging machines which were also used for fogging. The health department is conducting fogging as it has spotted mosquitoes which are responsible for spreading dengue.
 
 Besides, pregnant women, elderly and infants which are always at high risk of developing complications due to swine flu were benefitted during the survey. The officials checked health of high risk group if they have influenza like illness.
 
 
