KOCHI: The measures adopted by the forest department to mitigate man-animal conflict in areas close to forest areas in the state leave much to be desired, says a report submitted by an expert committee.

 
  
 
 The three-member committee headed by P S Easa, former director of  , in its report ‘Human-Wildlife conflict mitigation' said most of the measures are dysfunctional, haphazardly implemented and therefore not effective. Two other members of the committee were S Raju and  .
 “There are locations, where elephantproof trenches, walls and solar-powered fences exist in parallel. They have been installed one after another by different government agencies,” said the report.
 
 Easa said those who implemented the measures failed to ensure that they were done properly. “For example, in Attapady, the power fences set up by the state government are not working. However, the ones installed by private individuals are functioning well,” said Easa.
 
 An amount of Rs 100 crore has been sanctioned from KIIFB for building protection fences based on the report. As of now, solar fences measuring 1,800 km have already been constructed.
 
 As per the report the worst example of haphazard fence installation is in Agali-Attapadi area. Almost all the private areas have been fenced and they are functional. The fences which lie scattered are confusing to the elephants. People had been complaining about elephants moving along the road but that was the only safe place for them to move in Sholayur, the report said.
 
 Most of the areas visited by the team had mitigation measures in place like elephant-proof trenches, elephant-proof walls and solar-powered fences but they existed side by side, indicating wastage of resources. At   area in Wayanad the committee found an old wall, a solar fence (installed in 2013) and a trench dug in 2016. Ironically, none of them were functional. Interestingly, people improvised these fences in some areas by tying glass bottles so that they are alerted by the sound. The report says that some of the locations for barriers are selected arbitrarily without considering the effectiveness.
 
 One of the locations in Thiruvananthapuram has trenches done intermittently leaving gaps in between which is not effective. The panchayats in Kulathupuzha, Thenamala, Palode and Paruthippally had dug trenches in a haphazard manner. Assistance from several agencies are being utilised at least in Wayanad wildlife sanctuary. These include NABARD, MRMAC and Central assistance, according to the report.
 
 “Every year we spend around Rs 50-60 crore for mitigation measures. The funds come from the Centre and the state governments and every year such activities are taken up as per the need,” said  , additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), in charge of eco-development. He said participation by local residents is being ensured.
 
