Chandigarh’s secret society of poets found a public platform in September 2015 when a recitation club called ‘Kavitactic: Poetic Action’ came up. One of its founders,   Grewal, was just a regular 13-year-old when she discovered her flair for writing poetry. “During Class XI in 2013, I started reciting my poems at public events and, in one of those programmes, met the club’s future co-founder Prerit  ,” says this college student of geography.

 Prerit was another enthusiastic young poet keen to do something new and both wanted to popularise spoken-word poetry. Gursaya and   had noticed that a lot of poets were invited to different events as add-on performers and they were not an organised group holding a complete poetry session. They were rather like the bands performing at scattered musical evenings. “That is when we decided to form a community of poets and provide them with a platform to perform,” says Rajput.
 
 
 
 The group started with 14 poets and got an audience of 80 people during their first public meeting three months later. “Even non-poets come to our public meetings,” Rajput clarifies. “From then on, we used to hold two events a month, including a private sitting for poets. In the open house, the poets had the opportunity to perform in front of an audience.”
 
 This went on till October 2017. No event was organised in November and December before   resumed its activities from January this year. By now, Chandigarh had started taking interest in these poetical ventures. “We used our two years of experience to deliver something different. We did away with separate private and public sittings and switched to common ‘Baithaks’ where both poets and non-poets would come over to discuss different eras and genres of poetry,” says Rajput.
 
 On January 21, Kavitactic held its first ever Baithak—Freedom Writers—to commemorate Republic Day. The participants shared and discussed poetry written during India’s freedom struggle. It included the works of Fiaz Ahmed Faiz, Rabindranath Tagore, Amrita Pritam, and Toru Dutt.
 
 Describing their journey of two years, Gursaya says: “We started small, with just one aim—to provide the city’s young poets with an active platform. We wanted to work towards popularising poetry through this space. With each event, more poets connected with us and Kavitactic reached where it is today. From 14, the community has grown to more than 100 poets.”
 
 
 
 
 Asked if language ever posed a barrier in the sharing of any literary piece, Rajput comes out with a story in reply. “Once a German poet attended our event,” he says. “After reading out his poem in German, he translated it into English for the audience. Even if any poem is translated partially, at least its theme is conveyed to everyone.”
 
 The name Kavitactic—a conjunction of Hindi word ‘kavita’ (poetry) and English word tactic—struck the founders when they brainstormed about what they wanted to do. Tactic has taken ‘kavita’ far and the club now has a range of events lined up this year from poetry workshops to teaching sessions about the technicalities of this art.
 
 Rajput says that the first of these workshops—‘Spoken Approach’—is coming up in March. During this event, spoken-word poet Amy Singh will talk about the nuances of writing, crafting, and performing poetry—in short, the tactics of poetry.
 
 
 
 Apart from this, there will also be a composition series, the kind of which has already been organised in 2017. “In these sessions, we invite a music composer to set verses to a tune on the spot. We had hosted its first season last year and the three programmes had received a good response. We now look forward to its second season this year,” Rajput says.
 
 Kavitactic will also continue to associate with and participate in other literary events. Its poets performed at Chandigarh’s first story festival at the Sector-10 Government Museum and   on February 17 and 18.
 
 
 
 
