MUMBAI: Sixteen years after he escaped, the Gujarat AntiTerrorism Squad (ATS) and   in a joint operation on Monday arrested   (47), one of the conspirators in the 2002   case. 

 Qureshi was a director in Pragma Softwate Technology, a firm he along with two others operated from Aurangabad, deputy commissioner of police   said. 
 
 
  
 
 Police said the firm was a front, and its office was used as a meeting point to hatch the blast conspiracy. Qureshi was picked up from his residence at Shah Colony in Usmanpura, Ahmedabad, after   got a tipoff that he arrived in India on May 3 on a Muscat-Mumbai-Aurangabad flight. 
 
 Gujarat ATS alerted the Mumbai crime branch (unit 10) as he was an accused in the blast inside a BEST bus in Ghatkopar on December 2, 2002 that killed two and injured 50. Qureshi had escaped to Muscat two months before the blast. But the crime branch probe revealed his involvement, and police carried out a raid at his Aurangabad office. Official sources said while in Muscat, Qureshi got his passport renewed in 2003. 
 
 “He visited Ahmedabad in 2007 and 2015 but agencies did not get any leads. He returned this time thinking things must have eased,” sources said. Gujarat ATS began its search for Qureshi after its probe into the Mumbai-Ahmedabad Karnavati Express blast of 2006 revealed he was involved.
 
  “The name came up when two accused were caught from Aurangabad,” an officer said. 
 
 Qureshi was produced before a special court. The prosecution said he was founder of the firm and alleged CDs and floppy disks containing material on terror outfits were recovered from its office. It claimed the group’s object was to influence Muslim youth by citing incidents such as the 2002 Gujarat riots. 
 
 Defence advocates Tahera Qureshi and Yakub Shaikh cited a 2004 review committee report which said a prima facie case was not made out to connect the accused to the offence under POTA. 
 
 They said he was partner in the firm for only nine months and had left India on October 1, 2002. Special judge MB Datye remanded Qureshi to police custody till May 14. “The accused was founder of Pragma Software Technology. It cannot be forgotten some material about the conspiracy could be hatched even before he left India. Even if his alleged association with the firm is small, police must get authority to find out his role,” the court said
 
