Even as the animal rights activists continue to fight for the well-being of animals, the city has been witnessing instances of dogs, especially stray dogs, being poisoned to death often. As the victims of horrendous cruelty, 16 dogs including five pet dogs died after consuming poison laced meat remains at   in   on Friday.

 The pet dogs of   Momaya, a resident of Lavanya Garden, did not come running when he reached his house around 11.30pm on Friday. Instead, his neighbor came with his dog struggling for life in his hands. It was only then the dogs in the area started to fall one after another including Dhaval’s dogs. A few packets of meat remains were found in different localities of the area.
 
 “We took the dogs to the government veterinary polyclinic at  , which is supposed to work round the clock, only to return as the clinic was closed,” he said. Timely treatment would have saved at least some dogs, he added. 
 
 While nine dogs had died on Saturday, seven more dogs from the nearby locality had died on Sunday. Four more dogs are undergoing treatment at the Humane Animal Society (HAS). The residents had identified packets of meat remains at five different spots across the locality.
 
 “All the deceased dogs were sterilized and vaccinated,” he said, explaining that both the community dogs and the pet dogs were treated on par with each other and the dogs were never considered as menace in their community.
 
 Residents and animal lovers attribute such instances to the increase in dog population on the streets with every passing month. 
 
 “It’s been almost a year since the sterilization of dogs were carried out in the locality,” said P  , social worker, pinpointing that just his street in Kovaipudhur alone has about 20 dogs and some of them are suffering from rabbis, thus spreading the disease to human beings. 
 
 “How can a person walk alone on the road with such an increase in dog population?” he asked. 
 
 “Despite zero support from the corporation, we have been trying to sterilize as many dogs as possible,” said Mini Vasudevan from Humane Animal Society, one of the Non-Governmental Organizations who have signed agreement with the corporation to carry out the sterilization programme.
 
 Apart from sterilizing the animals, awareness should be created among people on how to treat and behave with animals, she added. 
 
 Meanwhile, the residents allege that officers at Kunniyamuthur police station refused to file first information report (FIR) even as several residents registered a complaint. But the police said that they had informed the animal husbandry department and were proceeding as per their directions.
 
 The animal husbandry department had requested the police to send the internal organs of the dogs to forensic department to know the exact cause of death.
 
 On polyclinic not functioning round the clock, an official from the animal husbandry department said that a duty doctor and an assistant were on the night duty. The residents might have visited the clinic when the doctor was on the break, the official added.
 
 “In this particular instance, we suspect that the poison was overdosed in the food,” the official said, explaining that the dogs especially the stray dogs have the resistance to digest mild dosages of pesticides and other poisonous substance.
 
 
