CHENNAI: In a peace-offering meant to break the deadlock, the   government on Wednesday allocated ₹750 crore towards benefits to transport department employees, who have retired on or before November 30, 2017. Chief minister   in a suo motu statement in the assembly appealed to the employees to accept the offer and withdraw their protest.

 But, the standoff between the government and the workers remained unresolved with trade unions refusing to withdraw their strike unless the settlement signed by the government with ‘minority unions’ accepting 2.44% wage hike is kept in abeyance.
 
 Both the   and CITU categorically informed a special bench of the Madras HC headed by Justice S Manikumar on Wednesday that there was no scope to withdraw the strike unless the government agreed to suspend the settlement that was signed and resumed negotiations. “If the state is not bothered about public interest, we too are not bothered,” counsels for the unions told the court.
 
 
 
 For his part, the chief minister told the assembly, “The government is sanctioning ₹750 crore for the transport department so that employees, who have retired on or before November 30, 2017, can get their retirement benefits. The amount of ₹750 crore will be a Pongal gift for the employees.”
 
 The court wanted the unions to temporarily withdraw the strike, by accepting the settlement already made and keep the dispute over 0.13% pay hike pending. “You must come forward to serve people during the Pongal season. How can you continue the strike?” the court asked. But, the unions maintained that the strike was not only legal but also justified.
 
 Expressing displeasure over the continuing impasse, the bench adjourned the hearing to Thursday, leaving it to the ‘conscience’ of the trade unions to decide as to whether or not resume work at least for five days, in view of Pongal. Around noon, the special bench took up the case for hearing, recording the two-hour-long arguments put forth by senior counsel   and advocate N  , who represented the unions. The bench made a proposal that the government would implement the 2.44% wage hike immediately, and that transport workers should resume work immediately. The disputes relating to 0.13% further wage hike and other issues could be heard later on merits, the bench said.
 
 The unions requested a short pass over, to discuss the proposal. When the bench resumed proceedings at about 6pm, the unions submitted that they were not ready to withdraw the strike, unless settlement signed by the government is kept in abeyance. But the advocate general   submitted that the government was ready to implement 2.44% wage hike immediately. To this, the unions said it was not their intention to cause inconvenience, but for compulsion, they have resorted to strike.
 
 
