GURUGRAM: The takeover of developer areas by   is unlikely to happen any time soon as the developers have disagreed with the estimates prepared by the civic body-appointed consultants, highly placed sources told TOI on Friday.

 The department of town and country planning had written to   for the takeover of Sushant Lok-1 and   colonies, along with the detailed project report for the same. The DPRs estimated the cost of the takeover of the two colonies to be around Rs 108.7 crore and Rs 69.8 crore, respectively. The developer was given a month’s time to reply on the notices, which lapsed in December. A senior   official said, “We have issued the notice to a couple of developers and will send the notices for other areas soon too. However, the developers have sought more time to revert on the matter.” 
 
 Sources, however, said the developers have contested the estimates prepared by the MCG-appointed consultants, saying they have delivered the services as per the service estimate which they signed at the time of the issuance of licences.
 
 If the developers don’t agree to the estimates prepared by the MCG, the process will be significantly delayed, sources said. The developers are either expected to complete the infrastructure deficiencies as per the DPR before the takeover or pay the money to MCG upfront for the takeover to take place.
 
 Senior officials within MCG have similar views on the matter and said the developers are likely to contest the estimates prepared by the MCG with the aim of delaying the process of the takeover.
 
 “We anticipated the developers to question the estimates prepared by us as they would want to delay the process and not spend a penny. However, their claims would have no basis as they have been involved in the whole process all along and have been provided with multiple opportunities to put their point forward,” said an official.
 
 Meanwhile, DTCP has sent a notice to Suncity projects for the takeover of the society earlier this week and the developers are expected to revert in a month’s time. The notices for the takeover of the   phases 1,2 and 3 are also expected.
 
 The process of the takeover of developer colonies started in April, 2017, after residents from protested over delays. In the phase one of the takeover, DLF phases 1,2 and 3, Suncity, Palam Vihar and Sushant Lok-1 were taken up. MCG had then appointed a consultant to prepare a infrastructure deficiency report for these areas, which was sent to DTCP for approvals.
 
 
