KOLKATA: At a time when   (KMC) officials are trying to meet the revenue target at the fag end of the financial year, the absence of mayor   and other functionaries on Friday cast a shadow on the civic body’s future.
 
 According to revenue department sources, property tax collection from the treasury counters at the civic body’s headquarters on Thursday dipped to Rs 47 lakh, an all-time low. Generally, the KMC treasury at the headquarters records a revenue collection Rs 3 crore to 4 crore every day. According to revenue department officials, considering the year-end, the net collection should have widened.
 
 The ‘poor performance’ on part of the assessment department kept the finance department officials on tenterhooks since the latter have to arrange for payment to various departments based on the day-today income of the civic body. “We are under pressure to release bills to contractors to the tune of crores every day, but the revenue collection is far from satisfactory,” said a finance department official.
 
 In such a situation, both assessment and finance department officials looked up to the civic top brass to find ways to bail out the civic body from impending crisis. However, absence of the mayor, along with municipal commissioner  , made the situation difficult. In absence of the mayor, the municipal commissioner takes charge of daily operations, including sanctioning funds, determining policies to augment revenue and implementing policies relating to all essential services. “Absence of mayor and municipal commissioner together has hit the civic body hard. If this trend continues, the civic body will have to face a bleak future since any deviation in revenue collection at this point will lead to a financial disaster,” said a revenue department official. “The revenue collection could have been worse had not a central government ministry deposited Rs 50 crore payable to KMC as service charge for its properties under KMC jurisdiction,” said an official.
 
 Chatterjee’s absence has also put a question mark on approval of files relating to budgetary allocations. An official pointed out that the health department was in need of speedy approval of filesto help them go for vector-control activities as advised by the CM.
 
 
