LUCKNOW/NEW DELHI: It wasn't just public sector banks (PSBs) that took a hit from loans and guarantees to diamond firms run by   and  . As many as 24 companies and 18 businessmen, who had taken franchise of their jewellery brand between 2013 and 2017, filed criminal complaints of financial bankruptcy due to breach and fraud committed by the two.

 
 These businessmen and firms had opened franchise showrooms of Choksi-owned   and   in Delhi, Agra, Meerut, Bengaluru, Mysuru, Karnal, parts of Gujarat and Rajasthan.
 
 According to records accessed by TOI, the FIRs registered in all the cases deal with criminal conspiracy, fraud and violation of agreement by Choksi's firms to send stocks of diamond and precious gems, despite taking security deposits between Rs 3 crore and Rs 20 crore from franchisees.
 
 Sources in the income tax department said that they were evaluating the liabilities, investments and profit before and after tax by Choksi's companies.
 
  
  
 
 A three-year contract that was signed between Choksi's firms and franchisees mandated a fixed minimum guarantee commission (MGC) by him at 12 per cent per annum on security deposit, apart from rental for the jewellery showroom. The franchisees, however, detected violations that Gitanjali would either not replenish the stock, send items which carried prices much lesser than the market rates, or not pay the rental.
 
 A Delhi-based businessman, Vaibhav Khurania, was among the first to detect Choksi firm's "fraud" in 2013. He opened a retail store in Rajouri Garden but had to shut it down after Gitanjali allegedly did not send him stocks for Rs 3 crore, despite taking the payment.
 
 "In fact, they sent those items of which the market price was much less, but the showroom price was 3-4 times more of the actual price," one FIR stated.
 
 As many as three FIRs in Karnataka in 2015 reveal that one franchisee, Amit Kumar from Mysuru, had a Rs 1.7 crore cheque issued by Gitanjali bounced, while one Hari Prasad failed to get Rs5 crore rental for his showroom to sell Gitanjali jewellery.
 
 According to records, the FIRs in many cases were registered only after court's interference. The records also reveal that Choksi would seek quashing of FIR in most cases.
 
