Flying from Chennai is going to be a high-tech experience as the new integrated terminal, to be completed in three years, will be loaded with futuristic technology in use at airports in Tokyo, New York, Miami, Singapore, Incheon and Hong Kong.

 
 A passenger walking into the vast terminal can check in from kiosks set up like an island and use their smartphones linked to the terminal’s bluetooth or Wi-Fi to reach the boarding gate. If there is a change in boarding gate or there is a flight delay, the information will be sent to the phones. Those who do not want to stand in a queue can self-drop their bags and self check-in as there will be several such machines. And big families need not worry that their children will get lost. The airport’s beacon system will help them track the young ones using smartphones.
 
 The beacon and indoor positioning system will also help the   to make the most of its commercial ventures guiding passengers through the retail area with the day’s offers flashing on their phones based on their location inside the building.
 
 The 1,08,500sqm terminal for international travellers will have a check-in system with a software that allows passports to be swiped and boarding cards to be generated in a jiffy. As part of the smart terminal system, passengers will get boarding details on their phones. Boarding gates will be electronic and there will be extensive use of biometrics for enhanced security.
 
 A document prepared by   (AAI) detailing the features of the new terminal says, “IT and airport system equipment will be of global standard, software for faster check-in, self-bag drop, biometric processing, interactive kiosks, electronic boarding gates, beacons and others will be provided.”
 
 “The terminal will have real-time operational management to tell airport authorities the number of staff required at any given point of time based on the number of passengers,” said an official.
 
 The airport will have better mobile signals with speeds up to 5G besides bluetooth and Wi-Fi-enabled communication systems for passengers. The airport app will be spruced up. “Technology will be used to cut down the turnaround time of flights and minimise delays in pre-departure procedures. This will help in increasing the aircraft-handling capacity of the airport,” the official said.
 
 The terminal will be built in a phased manner without disturbing the existing traffic and passenger flow. The old abandoned domestic terminal will be demolished first and rebuilt. Following this, the international arrival wing would be pulled down before moving the operations to the new international arrival yet to be opened.
 
 The new terminal is expected to help boost the passenger capacity of the airport to 30 million a year.
 
