 (NMR), one of the 35 UNESCO world heritage sites in India, is all set to sport a new look with interiors of two of its coaches getting refurbished to make the journey from Mettupalayam to Ooty via Conoor more comfortable for tourists. The renovation is being done by Trichy-based   (GOC), a workshop set up by the British in 1928. The first repaired coach was sent to Mettupalayam last week while work on the second one is underway, said officials. 

 This is the first time the interiors of the wooden coaches, manufactured 87 years ago, are undergoing complete alteration. "GOC does periodical overhauling of coaches every two-and-a-half-years and of   every four years. During regular overhauling, minor repairs are made to coaches and they are repainted while locomotives are dismantled, repaired and assembled," officials said.
 
 The current renovation process, is however, a bit elaborate. While retaining the wooden frame and metal chassis, the coaches have been completely refurbished. The carriage was first separated from the coach and examined for corrosion. After repairing and colouring the wooden coach, its interiors were lined with 3mm of plastic sheets. This was followed up with covering the floor, ceiling and walls with vinyl papers and finally with powder coating. Cushion seats have also been fixed with sofa covering in the coaches.
 
 The NMR train from Mettupalayam runs on oil-fired steam engine till Coonoor and switches to diesel locomotives from Coonoor to Ooty. While it starts from Mettupalayam with three coaches, two more are added to the train from Coonoor.
 
 Besides the coaches, one of the four operative oil-fired steam locomotives of the train is getting ready at the workshop as part of the normal periodic overhauling. The X Class meter gauge locomotive, weighing nearly 50 tonnes can run at a maximum speed of 30kmph on the plain and 15kmph on gradient surface. Of the eight X Class locomotives available at NMR, four oil-fired steam locos were newly manufactured at GOC between February 2011 and March 2014, while the rest were imported from Switzerland.
 
 GOC is a pioneer workshop not only in the manufacturing of new X Class steam locos but also in overhauling this type of steam engines. So far 15 locos have been successfully overhauled at GOC and X 37392 is the 16th locomotive that is being overhauled. Locomotives were manufactured after those imported from Switzerland developed problems, leading to frequent service failures. 
 
 
