GAYA: Altogether 32 assistant professors have been appointed in different colleges and headquarters-based post graduate department of   (MU). All the appointments have been made on the recommendations of the   Public Service Commission ( ) in Geography. 

 Sources said most of the appointees are from outside the state. The appointments were notified by MU registrar   on Wednesday. The appointees will remain on probation for two years and upon satisfactory performance during the probation period, they would get confirmed.
 
 As per the notification, the newly-appointed assistant professors have been given time till January 15 to report for duty along with a certificate of fitness and original documents. The notification further says that those not submitting their joining reports by the deadline will be deemed uninterested in joining and their positions will be declared vacant.
 
 Warning the appointees against fraud/manipulation, the notification says the appointment offer would automatically stand cancelled if the information given by them proves to be false or incorrect. Altogether, five appointments have been made in the PG department of Geography, followed by Nalanda College, Biharsharif, where four of them have been appointed. 
 
 Three appointments have been made in each of these colleges which are   College, Gaya, Daudnagar College, Daudnagar and SNS College, Tekari. Two appointments have been made in each of these colleges. They are JJ College, Gaya, and SMG College, Sherghati, SNS College, Warisaliganj, SU College, Hilsa, SS College, Jahanabad and SPM College, Udantpuri. Meanwhile, RLSY College and Bakhtiarpur Kisan College, Sohsarai, have got one assistant professor each.
 
 Sources in the university said going by the college-wise break up of appointments, 10 appointments have been made in colleges proposed to be attached to Pataliputra University, Patna. The other 22 will remain in the parent MU after the varsity bifurcation which is likely to be formalised in a couple of months.
 
 Sources said, Geography teachers have been appointed in the university after a gap of 15 years. The last appointment in the subject was made in 2003 and that too, on a conditional basis pending a vigilance inquiry into the appointments that continues to drag till date.
 
 
