BARWANI: A 22-year-old woman was on Thursday   in MP’s  , allegedly by her  , for marrying outside the community. The victim, Sarla Koli, had eloped with her lover last year and was lured back home on the ruse that her mother was seriously ill.

 It was her mother Tulsa Bai who struck the first blow with a sickle, say police. “We are not ashamed of what we did. In fact, we finally feel relieved,” she told police after her arrest.
 
 Sarla’s father Devidas, brother Heeralal and Tulsa Bai of Khetia village have been arrested and charged with murder, Rajpur subdivisional police officer P S Baghel told TOI. The sickle and a ‘mogri’ (wooden bat used to pound clothes while washing) used in the killing have been seized.
 
 Baghel said that Sarla and Pankaj Devere eloped on May 25, 2017, and married in Mumbai. They worked together at a firm there and came to visit Pankaj’s native place, Pansemal in Barwani, about 12km from Khetia, on March 12, 2018.
 
 Sarla’s family got wind of it and on Thursday, her father and brother went to their house in Pansemal in an auto. They told the couple that they are willing to forget the past because Sarla's mother is on death bed, and “wants to have a last glass of water from her hands”, say police. At their insistence, Sarla and Pankaj sat with them in the auto went to Khetia. Pankaj was the first to step into the house, with Sarla close behind.
 
 Trio hacked Sarla’s neck with a sickle; showed no remorse
 
 Police say Sarla’s mother was hiding behind the door, sickle in one hand and mogri in another. As soon as the couple entered, Tulsa Bai allegedly beat Pankaj with the bat, shoved him out of the house and shut the door, trapping Sarla inside.
 
 She swung at Sarla with the sickle but she jumped from the rear balcony in a desperate bid to escape, say police. The trio surrounded her in the backyard and allegedly hacked her neck thrice with the sickle. They also bludgeoned her with the mogri, say police. Pankaj has told police that he ran to the rear of the house, jumped over the wall and shielded Sarla with his body, but the trio pounded him with the mogri and tore him away. “They killed her in front of my eyes. She died in my arms,” said Pankaj.
 
 Pankaj was injured but somehow managed to escape to the community health centre of Pansemal, where he was treated. He filed a complaint with police. Tulsa Bai was the first to be arrested and her husband and son were nabbed a little later.
 
 According to SDOP Baghel, the trio feels no remorse and tried to justify the murder by saying that Sarla’s elopement had shamed them in the community. “We were deeply embarrassed and couldn’t attend any function in the Koli community,” the father told police. Mother and son blamed Sarla for “landing them in trouble”. Barwani SP Vijay Khatri told TOI that Sarla’s family had filed a missing person’s complaint after she eloped. Police traced them but when they learnt that the couple were adults and living happily, they took no action and gave them their best wishes.
 
 Sarla was cremated at Pansemal after post-mortem. Pankaj performed the last rites. “I was skeptical when her father and brother came with a false story. But when Sarla started crying, I decided to go with them,” he said.
 
