By:   Patidar
Chillod Piplia
 
 Wearing a dazed look, Sumitra walks past the buffaloes tied on the veranda. She seems headed for the kitchen, but her gaze is far off. Blank.
 
 
 Wrapping a worn-out saree tightly around her, she turns as her father Laxminarayan calls out to her: “Beta, have some roti.” He has to do this thrice a day. “Otherwise, she doesn’t eat,” he says, eyes welling up. “She’s broken.”
 
 Sumitra is in depression ever since her husband, Kanhaiyalal Patidar of Chillod Piplia, was shot dead by police last year. She has recently shifted to her father’s house in Badi Gudbheli village. The reason: police and narcotics officers would constantly harass her, seeking to know about ‘Kanhaiyalal’.
 
 “When I am in Chillod Piplia, my only worry is that a policeman will barge into the house, in front of the entire village, and ask for ‘Kanhaiyalal’. The man they want is a goon who shares the name with my husband. But don’t they know my husband is dead? Why do they harass me then?” asks Sumitra.
 
 She keeps a stack of copies of Kanhaiyalal’s death certificate to pass on to policemen. Her father put the Rs 1 crore compensation in a fixed deposit. “Bankers advised me to do so. Now I plan to get the annual interest on the FD, Rs 7 lakh, in monthly installments for Sumitra and her kids,” Laxminarayan said.
 
 Sumitra is stuck in her past, but her 17-year-old daughter, Pooja, is planning her future. She wanted to join the police force, but chucked the idea after her father was killed by cops. “Now I want to be a doctor,” says the Class XII student. Her brother, 14-year-old Hitendra, is being sent to a Patidar community boarding school in Sagwara, Rajasthan. “I will miss cricket,” he grumbles.
 
 “The government is going to take care of educational fees of Pooja and Hitendra. So, we decided to send him to a good school,” Laxminarayan says, adding that they had refused the job offer given to Sumitra, given her mental state and lack of education. “She would have got the job of a peon. But when Hitendra passes out, he will get a good job,” her father hopes.
 
