The   government has expanded its focus on treatment of Hepatitis C (HCV) since 2016 to include prevention as well. With this, high risk groups, including HIV positive patients and injecting drug users (IDU) shall be screened for the Hepatitis C virus. Some 42,000 patients have been registered with in all the state hospitals for the HCV treatment in the last two years. The government has decided to track their treatment progress from April 1 onwards. However, patient advocacy groups feel   (which is also a blood transmitted virus) must also be included to achieve the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDG).

 
  
 
 Currently, the Punjab government offers a 12-week treatment course with direct-acting antivirals, a new treatment for chronic hepatitis approximately for $67, perhaps the lowest in the world as experts from the HCV task force of the Indian National Association for Study of the Liver claim.
 “We have been able to give treatment at the cheapest rate and this model is being appreciated by many global organisations. The cure rates have been as high as 92%,”said Dr RK Dhiman, technical adviser on HCV under   C programme.
 
 The state task force documents the prevalence of HCV infection in Punjab is 3.29%, with an estimated burden of around 6,50,000 patients. “We will soon have epidemiological data and GIS mapping will track any cluster reporting of HCV. Our introduction of re-use prevention syringes soon in the all the districts of the state will focus on prevention of HIV, HCV and HBV,” said Dr  , state programme officer, HCV. “We will be introducing an SMS-based service where all the registered HCV patients of the state shall be sent reminder for a follow up,” he added.
 
 Patient advocacy groups feel that the state model is largely focused on HCV and should include Hepatitis B. “The only gap that I can see in the Punjab model is they have not addressed Hepatitis B as the SDG goal is not limited to HCV alone. The other is that not only Punjab, but any other state seeking to introduce HCV treatment should also strengthen harm reduction programmes for drug users,” said   South Asia head for MSF’s access campaign.
 
