CHANDIGARH: With opposition attacking local bodies minister Navjot Singh  , chief minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday said there was no question of asking him to quit the state cabinet because of the   proceedings against him in the 30-year-old road rage case.

 Amarinder pointed out that the Supreme Court had stayed Sidhu’s conviction in the road rage case in 2007 and was yet to pronounce its verdict on his petition challenging the high court order. The question of the minister resigning, merely because the state government had repeated its stand of 30 years in the case before the Supreme Court, did not arise, he added. “There was neither any impediment in Sidhu’s induction into the cabinet nor in his continuation now, in view of the stay on his conviction”, he said.
 
 Amarinder’s clarification follows reports suggesting that Sidhu had been asked to resign, and also in the wake of the demand from the opposition that he should step down.
 
 Last week, the state government in the Supreme Court had stood by the Punjab and Haryana High Court verdict convicting Sidhu in the 1988 case and awarding a three-year jail term to him.
 
 While reiterating that his government could not have changed its stand in the apex court in the case against Sidhu, Amarinder said he hoped that the judge would take cognizance of Sidhu’s contribution to the society and the country in deciding the case.
 
 Amarinder described the recent developments in the matter as unfortunate, but maintained that his government had taken the only legally tenable stand in the apex court.
 
 Reacting to reports suggesting that the government had deliberately not supported the minister in the apex court, Amarinder said unless the prosecution received new inputs, it was not legally possible for it to add a new element to its arguments.
 
 Speaking totally from a legal viewpoint, the prosecution was duty-bound to go by the facts and stick to the same, he said. Taking a U-turn from the stand taken by the government in the trial and high courts was not an option for the government, he added.
 
  backs minister
 
 Expressing support for  , Punjab   president   said, “The Congress has full faith in Judiciary and stands behind Sidhu in his quest for justice. It's well known to everyone that he is an upright and a kind-hearted person with a lot to contribute to Punjab’s future.”
 
 
