Actor  , who shot to fame with the movie ' ' as Raam Kaushik, was in Lucknow recently to shoot for a film. His second film shoot in Lucknow — the first being Gandhigiri in 2015 — Rishi believes that Lucknow is a perfect place for film shoots. "The one thing which I liked about this city is that Lucknowites have now become so used to film shoots. We wanted some kind of costumes for our film and we got them so easily. Apko jo cheez chahiye woh asaani se available hai yahan Lucknow mein," said Rishi, who belongs to Meerut. "Even the junior artist here understand the basic needs of a film shooting. Lucknow mein shooting karke you don’t feel as if you are shooting in an alien city, it seems as if you are shooting in Mumbai itself. Also, here, people are very systematic," he added.
Although appreciating the beauty of the monuments in the city and also its people, what disturbed Rishi is the traffic in Lucknow. "Yahan ka traffic jaisa kuch nahi hai. Even in Meerut, my hometown, traffic is much more organized. People here are always in such a hurry that they don’t mind flouting traffic rules to save a few seconds. Koi idhar se gaadi kaat raha hai, koi udhar se, sadkon pe poora confusion rehta hai," he said. 
 Rishi, who has also done films like 'Vodka Diaries' and ' ', added, "I wonder why the administration has put signboards with traffic signs on them because koi follow toh karta nahi hai unhe. Jahan 'No U-turn' ka signboard laga hai, wahin se sab turn karte hain. Jo likhha hai, woh toh man’na hi nahi hai. There is so much traffic that you have to constantly focus and concentrate on the road."
 
  
  Rishi Bhutani at  , Gomti Nagar (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 
 Speaking about the good things in Lucknow, Rishi said, "I went to see the Bada   this time in between my shooting schedule and I was just in awe of the monument. It simply stole my heart. Secondly, I was mesmerized by the green parks here, especially the Ambedkar Park. Also, Lucknow ka Bel mujhe bahut pasand aaya. During my shooting, we all used to have Bel ka sharbat."
 Having shot for a film here earlier, Rishi says that Lucknow is now growing as a hub of film shoots. “Mumbai mein shootings have now turned out to be quite expensive. People don't want to shoot much in Mumbai. Wahan par it’s like if you take out your camera on the road then you have to shelve out a huge amount of money. Lucknow mein people are ready to help, whereas in Mumbai, people are ready to rob you of money. Plus there are no unions here in Lucknow and Mumbai mein there are many. Lucknow is actually giving stiff competition to Mumbai in film shootings," said Rishi.
 — Prachi Arya
 
 
