PATNA: Patna Women’s College (PWC) has added yet another feather to its cap by becoming the first autonomous college in the state. A UGC communication to this effect was received by the college and Patna University (PU) on Saturday.

 The 77-year-old institution became eligible to apply for the coveted autonomy when it was continuously awarded Grade ‘A’ by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) three times in a row. It has already been accorded CPE (college with potential for excellence) status by the UGC. With a sound academic ambience and plethora of courses on offer, the constituent minority institution of Patna University is naturally the first choice of girls desirous of pursuing various degree and diploma courses.
 
 Even as there are more than 450 autonomous colleges in the country, PWC is the first institution in the state to get this tag. In fact, the state government had made a move to convert at least three colleges of PU — Patna College, Patna Science College and PWC — in 1987 itself, but it was opposed tooth and nail by the state level teachers’ bodies — FUTAB and FUSTAB and the Patna University Teachers’ Association. Ultimately, the idea was dropped.
 
 Then PWC made a move in this direction recently and succeeded in its venture despite stiff opposition by a section of college teachers, along with the PUTA office-bearers. As many as 17 teachers of the college had sought their mass transfer from the college to some other institutions of PU when they learnt about the college move for autonomy.
 
 PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh told TOI on Sunday the college teachers should not be apprehensive after the college getting autonomous status as the university would take care of their service conditions. “Autonomy is a welcome move and more and more good institutions should be accorded the autonomous status, he said.
 
 PUTA president Randhir Prasad Singh said the interest of teachers must be protected at all costs. The association would be compelled to launch an agitation if there is any attack on the “freedom” of teachers in the name of autonomy, he said.
 
 However, the grant of autonomy to PWC has been widely hailed by the college students and the enlightened citizens of the state capital. Some senior academics pointed out that autonomy to colleges is the first step towards developing small universities. A cluster can be developed around an autonomous college, which could later evolve into a university. 
 
 Chief minister Nitish Kumar has already announced the creation of a women’s university with PWC as its nucleus.
 
 Autonomous colleges could themselves develop courses in accordance with global employability, conduct their own tests and publish results in time. The announcement of results in large universities is time-consuming. Teachers will become accountable as they have to develop their own curriculum and teaching regime, they added.
 
 Patna Women’s College was founded in 1940 by Bishop B J Sullivan of Patna and Mother M Josephine, Superior General of the Apostolic Carmel. It was the first institution of higher learning opened to cater to the educational needs of women in Bihar. In the early years, the college and its hostel were housed in the Bishop’s own residence at Bankipur, which he vacated for this great work. It was granted the status of a degree college in July 1941. The site for the college building was offered to the then principal, Mother Theodosia, by the Bihar governor Lord Rutherford in 1945. The governor was concerned that the college building should match in beauty the Patna high court structure opposite the college. Father Gaerhart and Father Loesch saw an ‘architect’s dream’ for the new building of Patna Women’s College, a unique synthesis of Hindu, Islamic, Norman and Gothic styles. The college moved into the new building in July 1948.
 
 
