GUWAHATI: The Northeast Students' Organization (Neso) has got the backing of various organizations and individuals to propel the movement against the Citizenship (Amendment)   2016 across all northeastearn states. On Saturday, a rare scene was witnessed at the three-hour sit-in protest organized by Neso on the banks of Dighalipukhuri, as Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) adviser Akhil Gogoi, who has hardly been seen in any protest with Aasu leaders, shared the dais with Aasu and Neso leaders. 

 
 Earlier on Friday, an executive meeting of Neso decided that the constituent organizations of the student body will stage agitations against the contentious bill in the respective state capitals of the seven northeastern states on May 21.
 
 All Neso constituents - All Assam Students' Union (Aasu), Khasi Students' Union ( ), Naga Students' Federation ( ), Mizo Zirlai Pawl (MZP), Twipra Students' Federation (TSF), All Manipur Students' Union (Amsu), Garo Students' Union (GSU) and All Arunachal Pradesh Students' Union (Aapsu) - have demanded that the Centre withdraw the bill immediately to make northeast free from illegal influx.
 
 "Apart from Assam, the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill 2016 poses a grave threat to other northeastern states. If the Bill is passed in the parliament, the illegal immigrants belonging to the minority communities from Bangladesh, who are residing in these states will become genuine Indian citizens. All member organizations of NESO are opposed to such a suicidal move as the northeastern states are already facing the brunt of illegal immigration. Being a bordering state with Bangladesh, Assam will be worst affected if the Bill gets ratified. Our language, culture and the small tribes will face extinction," Aasu president Dipanka Kumar Nath said on Saturday.
 
 Nath said Neso will soon go to Delhi to stage protests against the bill in the national capital and has also decided to meet the Union home minister and Prime Minister to discuss the issue. Neso leaders also reiterated that NRC should be prepared for other northeastern states as well.
 
 "On humanitarian grounds, Assam has taken excessive burden of the immigrants who arrived in the state till 1971 as per the Assam Accord. Now, no more relaxation in this deadline is acceptable. On the other hand, in other states of northeast, Neso will continue demanding deportation of illegal immigrants based on the 1951 deadline," said Nath.
 
 Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuva Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) also staged a road blockade in the city on Saturday demanding withdrawal of the bill.
 
