PUNE: The Bombay high court on Thursday extended the interim protection to developer D S Kulkarni and wife Hemanti till February 5 after an affidavit was furnished confirming money transfer from a Singapore-based bank to the account of one of his companies. 

 Kulkarni, popularly known as  , and his wife have jointly moved an anticipatory bail plea in a case under the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act registered by the Pune police economic offence’s wing for allegedly cheating over 2,600 depositors. The HC has since directed him to deposit Rs 50 crore with the court’s registry to show his bona fide. 
 
 On December 22, Kulkarni’s lawyer had furnished two documents relating to money transfer of $40 lakh each, initiated from a foreign bank to one of the companies, of which DSK is a director. The total transaction of $80 lakh is equivalent to approximately Rs 51 crore. Justice Sadhana S Jadhav, hearing the matter, had then adjourned the matter till Thursday. 
 
 The affidavit, filed on Thursday by a client with whom Kulkarni had entered into a transaction, stated that OCBC Bank (in Singapore) has confirmed via e-mail on January 24, 2018 details of the money transfer and the amounts have been transferred from the foreign bank. The high court was informed that since it is a foreign transaction, the process of   (RBI) clearance would take three days for actual realisation of funds. 
 
 Kulkarni also filed an affidavit accepting the responsibility of ensuring that Rs 50 crore is deposited in his company’s account at   by February 1, 2018. 
 
 The bench took both the affidavits on record while posting the matter for next hearing on February 5 and continuing, till then, the interim protection granted to Kulkarni and his wife. 
 
 The court had earlier asked special public prosecutor   as to whether the investigating agency was agreeable to auctioning the properties of the applicants (Kulkarnis) to realise the amount to be paid to the investors as well as the bank. 
 
 On instructions from assistant commissioner of police Nilesh More, who is the investigating officer, Chavan submitted that the investigating agency was ready and willing to go for an auction process of the mortgaged properties held by DSK group. He submitted that on February 2, the prosecution would submit a list of the properties with clear title as well as the value of the mortgaged properties. 
 
 
