Two years ago, Singapore-born   Kalaivani Nagaraj — better known by her stage name Lady Kash — set out to write a song based on Villupaattu. Having origins in Thanjavur, Kash had watched Villupaattu performance in Singapore as a child and believed the folk art form was indeed the seed of rap music because of the similarities in the usage of rhythm and storytelling. 

 While researching for her music video, she stumbled upon a TOI article on Poongani Amma, an 82-year-old Villupaattu artiste from Kanyakumari, probably the oldest living practitioner of the art form. She travelled to Chennai and then to Kanyakumari to meet Poongani, with the idea to include her legacy in her music video. Her travel has culminated in the music   ‘Villupaattu’ which was recently released on   under her label ‘Akashik’.
 
 In the video, Kash raps in English and Tamil, crooning about the similarities between rap music and Villupaattu. Set in the backdrop of rural Tamil Nadu, the visuals are interspersed with Kash’s visit to Poongani, her Villupaattu performance and what happens behind the scenes.
 
 Kash says her motive was to take music from Indian origin artistes to an international audience and that the project was aimed at such a crossover. "Language should not be a barrier. Also the sound of Villupaattu has scope for fusion and I see rap as an urbanised form of ‘solisai’," she says.
 
 Kash says from her childhood she was attracted more to rhythm than melody. "The way Villupaattu uses language and poetry to tell a story was so similar to how I used words in rap music to tell my story," says Kash, 28, who describes herself as a ‘bilingual Indian female rap artist’. 
 
 Although she has no formal training in music, Kash says rhythm came naturally to her. "I taught myself to rap. And after the internet boom, I watched online rap sessions to improve my rapping. I became a professional rapper when I was 18," she says. Villupaattu is her second original track, whose discography consists of over 35 tracks in the categories of film soundtracks, anthems, collaborations, charity singles and reworks. She has also worked and toured with composers such as A R Rahman and was the youngest and only female rapper in his Semmozhi Anthem in 2010.
 
 Speaking of her journey, Kash says she was filled with anxiety till she saw Poongani. "I was not sure how she was going to respond to me and my music." Kash says she performed the Tamil portions of the bilingual song to Poongani. "She listened intently to what I sang and I explained rap music to her. Meeting such an inspiring figure changed my perspective towards music."
 
 But, what shocked Kash was the penury Poongani was living in. "She did not have a fan in the shack of a house she lives in. Her room too looked as if it hadn’t been cleaned for ages." Kash and her team after the shoot for the music video, returned to Poongani’s house, cleaned it and bought her some essentials commodities. "It was an emotional moment for the whole team when Poongani Amma said she wished she had met us earlier in life," Kash adds. 
 
 
