BHUBANESWAR: Setting its eye on increased excise revenue, the   has framed its excise policy 2018-19 with emphasis on attracting more premium brands.

 Although the Indian Made Foreign Liquor ( ) will be costlier by Rs 5 to Rs 10 in all brands of 750ml bottle, the Foreign Made Foreign Liquor (FMFL-premium brands that include blended whiskies and scotch) will be a bit cheaper. 
 
 “The policy strikes a balance between revenue generation and social responsibility,” said excise minister Sashi Bhushan Behera.
 
 The state government has projected in the 2018-19 budget excise revenue of Rs 3,800 crore, which is around Rs 500 crore more than that of 2017-18 fiscal. This will be earned through attracting premium brand FMFL liquor, introducing composite label registration fee and additional rounding off license fee.
 
 “If a bottle of liquor cost Rs 495 after including the cost of landing, excise duty and license fee, then it will be rounded off as Rs 500. The remaining Rs 5 will go to government exchequer,” said an excise department official.
 
 Significantly, the government for at least a year will not issue new licenses for foreign liquor shops (only selling kiosks) although it is open to encouraging opening of model premium liquor shop at airports. The government will charge an annual license fee of Rs 4 lakh on the model premium shops.
 
 On the similar line, the government has also decided to restrict “ON” (sale and use) shop in shopping complex, malls and rural areas. If a shopping mall has a star hotel, new liquor license can be issued,” read the policy.
 
 On the social front, the policy has sought to put a ban on use of “rectified spirit” as the base of manufacturing liquor. Instead, it has asked the manufacturers of IMFL to use extra neutral alcohol, which is lighter compare to rectified spirit. “Use of rectified spirit has been done away with considering the health of liquor consumers in the state,” the policy said.
 
 The government rechristened country spirit shops as country liquor shops. These shops will be allowed to sell country-made liquor only.
 
 The government has cautioned the licensed the liquor shop owners against using “sarkari shop’. They write “licensed foreign liquor shops”.
 
