RUDRAPUR: Complaining of heavy power cuts ranging between one to three hours each day over the past two months, entrepreneurs at the   industrial estate claimed that they have lost 15% of their manufacturing capacity due to random load shedding.
 
  Industrialists claimed to have written to the chief secretary of the state, managing director (MD) of the   and MD of State Industrial Development Corporation of Uttarakhand Ltd (SIDCUL), seeking their intervention without delay for frequent power breakdowns in the area.
  
  There are nearly 400 industrial units in the Pantnagar industrial area. In a meeting held by SIDCUL Entrepreneur Welfare Association (SEWA), the entrepreneurs appealed to the concerned agencies to take steps for improving the situation at the earliest. The entrepreneurs complained that the power cuts are unscheduled and this problem is persisting for the second month.
  
  “Power-cuts during day time have a drastic impact on industrial productivity as that is our main manufacturing cycle. Pantnagar industrial estate is supposed to be a no power cut zone but this issue has not been resolved till date. We have been receiving complaints from entrepreneurs for last several days. Some have even claimed that their productivity has dwindled to around 20% over last two months,” Manoj Tyagi, president of SEWA, said.
  
 Anil Kumar Singh, another entrepreneur, said, “It is not possible to run industries on generators. The loss in production is leading to losses to all stake holders such as traders, suppliers, workers, transporters and others.”
  
 Sub-divisional officer of UPCL, Vinod Kumar, said that though there were some faults after recent storms, repairs were effectively carried out soon after in all sectors to bridge power supply issues. “We try our best to give industries uninterrupted power supply but major cause of the current power instability is rotational load shedding from the distribution centres. We are hopeful that the problem will be resolved soon.”
