CHANDIGARH: The cash-strapped Chandigarh administration will splurge over Rs   on renovation of 8 suites at   for the high-profile two-day 49th Conference of Governors to be held in first week of May.

 The conference will be held will be attended by 27 governors and three lieutenant governors of states and Union Territories. President  , Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister  , Union minister of home affairs Rajnath Singh and other ministers will also take part in the two-day event.   and   will be staying at Raj Bhawan, while other dignitaries will be staying at UT Guest House, Punjab Guest House, Haryana Guest House and Hotel Mountview. There are 17 suites in the guest house. Of these, eight will be renovated. 
 
 The engineering department has floated a tender for execution of the work. Of the total Rs 1.07 crore, Rs 67.38 lakh will be spent on renovation of five suites (number 101, 102, 103, 114 and 115), while Rs 40.45 lakh will be spent on refurbishment of three suites (number 201, 202 and 203). The agency picked for execution of the work has been directed to complete the work within 30 days.
 
 The decision of the administration to spend such a huge amount on renovation had evoked strong reactions from people. For Rs 1 crore, one can purchase a three-bedroom flat or an entire floor of 10 marla or below house.
 
 Raising question mark on the amount being spent on renovation, social activist   said, “Over Rs 1 crore for renovation? What are they going to do in those rooms? This is wasteful.” 
 
 Garg also raised questions on the manner in which the tender was floated. “The tender was floated on March 20 and closed on the same day. It was just published in just few newspapers,” he said.
 
 Federation of Sector Federation of Sector Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC) chairperson Baljinder Singh Bittu said the administration approached the Union ministry of home affairs with a complaint that they were not provided sufficient funds for the next financial years and low allocation will hamper their development works. “Now, they are wasting huge money on renovation of rooms,” said Bittu. 
 
 He suggested that the administration make arrangements for dignitaries at top hotels in the city at less than half of the price at which suites at the UT Guest House are being renovated.
 
 For the event, walls connecting UT Guest House with both raj Bhawans — Punjab and Haryana — will be removed.
 
 The governors’ conference, which is annually held at Rashtrapati Bhavan, Delhi, has been shifted to Chandigarh after Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed desire to hold the event in the city.
 
 In recent years, Chandigarh has played host to VVIP dignitaries. French President Francois Hollande also with Prime Minister Modi had visited Chandigarh in January 2016. Later that year, city played host to the second edition of International Yoga Day. During all the visits, the administration had spent a lot of money on beautification of roads and other parts of the city.
 
 
