London: Chief minister   said in London he wants to transform Haryana into a Silicon Valley, which attracts expats and tech companies from overseas. The CM, who is on a three-day visit to London, signed nine MoUs where he met the Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE), investors, universities and British tech companies, as well as multinational infrastructure and construction companies. 

 “The British community is attracted to Haryana because Delhi is a preferable location for them,”   said.
 
 Among the MoUs he signed was one with University of Birmingham that could open a campus in Haryana and teach academic courses there, as well as collaborate with the state on agriculture, education and research. Khattar also signed an MoU with the University of Wolverhampton for collaboration on science and technology and one with WKCIC, a London adult education college, to deliver skills in Haryana.
 
 When Prime Minister Narendra Modi had met British PM Theresa May during the Commonwealth summit, they had signed a landmark MoU between techUK and Nasscom. “Haryana already has Gurgaon, which is a top IT hub. We want to make Haryana a Silicon Valley and make it attractive for expats,” a source in the high commission closely involved with the chief minister’s trip said. 
 
 “So that is why we are going to improve education at secondary level and college levels so they can put their children in school there and give it good sanitation, water, electricity and of course the most important thing for exapts, nightlife which Haryana already has in Gurgaon.” 
 
 Khattar also met officials from Transport for London (TFL), which is involved in developing the Dwarka-Gurgaon economic corridor as well as the KMP expressway. There will be commercial zones on both sides of the KMP expressway which will form a tech hub and TFL is working out the best way of doing it, the source said.
 
 Khattar also signed a Rs 350-crore MoU with multinational speciality chemicals and sustainable technologies company Johnson Matthey and he met Lord O’Shaughnessy, Parliamentary Under Secretary of State at UK’s department of health to discuss building more hospitals in the state. Khattar arrived one and a half hours late for the press briefing after being held up by a demonstration in London by public sector workers wanting better pay. When asked about his views on namaz being held in public, he said: “Meetings between Muslims and Hindus were held and things were settled on Friday.” On Saturday afternoon, he travelled by train to Scotland to meet investors and the diaspora.
 
 
