UDAIPUR: The animal husbandry department has issued advisory to district level authorities to keep a check on unusual animal/bird deaths in the region considering the Nipah virus outbreak in the Southern part of the country.

 Udaipur city as well as district has a large fruit bat population as well as other varieties. “One can see thousands of   flying over the Pichhola Lake around sunset. Gulabbag is another area which has thick bat population,” Dr Lalit Joshi, joint director, animal husbandry department told TOI.
 
 Looking at the large bat population even in rural areas like in Kotra block, the officers and field staff have been instructed to keep check on unusual deaths of birds or animals. “The people too are being asked not to consume fruits that have been eaten or bitten by animals or birds,” Joshi added. In this part of the region, people do not hesitate to eat fruits having bite marks.
 
 “They believe that fruits that are eaten by birds are fresh, sweet and without pesticides, but this can prove dangerous,” says Mahesh Sharma, an environmentalist. “Though counting of bat has never been done but they are found in lakhs in Udaipur alone. It won’t help to wash your fruits because that’s not how Nipah virus spreads. The virus is carried by fruit bats so one should not eat any fruit damaged from outside. If any infected bat has bitten the fruit, its saliva enters inside that fruit and spreads the virus. So far, the disease has affected only a family in Kerala, however, staying alert is essential,”  , chief conservator of forests says.
 
 “There is no approved specific therapy for this infection. So, prevention is the only cure, people should avoid contact with pigs and pig handlers. Maintaining personal hygiene and intensive hand washing practices are essential,” suggests Arti Prasad, professor and head, department of zoology at the University Science College here.
 
 “Throwing leftover food should be strictly avoided as it causes infection in children, home cooked meal should be preferred in such times,” she claims.
 
 
