Vijayawada: Tollywood actor Chiranjeevi faced heat from non-resident Telugus (NRTs) over the ongoing special category status ( ) row, in Dallas on Saturday. Chiranjeevi is currently is the US to attend the silver jubilee celebrations of Movie Artists’ Association (MAA) as chief guest. 

 As he reached the function venue, the Tollywood icon was greeted by protesters carrying placards questioning what was his contribution to the SCS agitation in the state. 
 
 The government at the Centre declined to give the SCS status to Andhra Pradesh which was promised to the state during the time of bifurcation. However, the fund-raising event turned out to be a damp squib as many local Telugu people did not attend the event.
 
 While the ruling TDP and all other political parties in the state, barring the BJP, have been protesting against the Centre’s step-motherly attitude to the state, with chief minister Chandrababu Naidu snapping ties with the NDA government at the Centre, there’s widespread resentment among the people over the Telugu film industry’s continued silence on the sensitive issue. 
 
  There were also banners asking Chiranjeevi — a former Rajya Sabha MP from the Congress — about his absence from the Parliament when the no-confidence motion was tabled against the BJP by the TDP and the YSRC. The MPs from the state, cutting across party lines, staged protests inside and outside the Parliament during the budget session earlier this month against the Centre’s injustice to AP.
 
 Messages on the social media by some individuals to boycott the MAA event went viral in the US and its impact was clearly visible after the actor reached the venue of the event. Till date, any program involving Tollywood actors used to be a huge hit in the States, but not even 50 per cent of the seats at the Allen convention centre in Dallas — where Telugu-origin people live in huge numbers — was filled up for Saturday’s event attended by Chiranjeevi.
 
 The convention centre has the capacity to accommodate 6,500 people, but due to the SCS row and the uproar it has caused, the turnout on Saturday was only about 1,500. Kiran Thummala, an   who was part of the protest brigade, said: “We are not against any individual or the film industry. We just want them to join hands in the fight for SCS which is the right of the people of AP. 
 
 “If the Tamil film industry can come forward for people’s issues like Jallikattu and Kaveri water dispute, why can’t the Telugu actors do the same?” asked Kiran. He also clarified that they are not aligned with any political party and are only raising their voice against the Union government for breaking the promises made to Andhra Pradesh.
 
 
