MUMBAI: Three commuters, including a TV journalist, became victims of train bullying in two separate cases at   and   since Tuesday. The police have made arrests in one case. Instances of bullying are reported often on trains plying in the extended suburbs of   on the western line and Diva-Vithalwadi on the central line. Train services have been unable to keep pace with the exponential growth in population in these areas. Experts say overcrowded coaches and the enormous time taken to travel to work or home, coupled with economic frustrations, are pushing commuters to fly off the handle frequently.

 Around 7am on Wednesday, TV news reporter Sudhir Shukla was assaulted by a group of five male passengers over a seat dispute between Mira Road and Andheri. Shukla suffered a laceration on his head. “There was trouble while I tried to board the second-class coach. Commuters had blocked the entrance completely,” Shukla told TOI. “There was a stout commuter behind me, who gave me a hard push, and so I landed inside the coach. Once the train started, I attempted to squeeze in further. A group of men had reserved seats for their friends, which led to an argument between them and me. The men hit me mercilessly. My face was covered in blood.”
 
  
  
 One of them was wearing a 'kada' (steel bracelet), which slashed Shukla’s head. “At Andheri, I got off the train and called up colleagues. The Andheri GRP was informed and they took me to Cooper Hospital around 8.30am,” he said. At the hospital, an X-ray of his chest and head, and a sonography of his abdomen was done, said Dr Rajesh Sukhdeve, the hospital’s medical superintendent. The GRP rounded up suspects for questioning.
 
 In the second incident, at Virar on Tuesday, a 65-year-old woman, Bhanumati Prajapati, and her grandson, Ramu, were injured in a tiff, again over a seat. The two Kalwa residents had come to Virar to visit a temple. They were tired, following a steep climb to the temple mountaintop, and were looking for seats on the train. The accused, Kishore Bhalerao, Sagar Gaikwad and Rohit Gaikwad—all Virar residents—were headed for their relatives' place in Kurla. The Prajapatis boarded the general compartment of a Churchgate-bound train at 7.30pm. Bhalerao, 31, was already seated with his wife, Tejashri, and their infant. Sagar and Rohit, who are Bhalerao's teenage brothers-in-law, too were seated. When Sagar got up from his seat and stepped out, the Prajapatis asked Bhalerao to let one of them take the vacant seat. “Bhalerao made it clear that none of his family members would stand till their destination (Dadar station) arrived,” said a police officer. An altercation took place as the Prajapatis tried to occupy Sagar's vacant seat by force. It resulted in fisticuffs, leaving Bhanumati and Ramu with nail marks. The accused too sustained nail marks. Bhalerao, Sagar and Rohit were arrested for assault and released on bail on Wednesday.
 
 The railways have been unfair to commuters living in the extended suburbs, say activists. “The population shift to the suburbs has been drastic, but the railway network is unable to cope with growing demand. The railways should completely switch to 15-coach trains and focus on improving services. Commutes are getting brutal,” said  , a Vasai resident and social worker. “More standing space should be introduced in coaches to make travel more comfortable. Three-seaters could be reduced to two-seaters, for instance. What commuters also need is wider entry/exit gates,” said  , former member, national railway users consultative council. Activist Sameer Zaveri said the police are dismissive of cases of bullying.
 
 Social psychiatrist Harish Shetty says travel spaces were earlier healing spaces, but this is not true anymore. “Whether on a train or on the road, everyone is on the edge. There is no emotional connect. When a person boards a train, he is irritable. He feels like he has been wronged on all sides. The economic space is also shrinking. The work environment is troubled, with long work hours and low salaries. People end up venting their ire on the weakest target, whether spouse, child, or a fellow passenger,” Shetty said.
 
 TIMES VIEW: If only train bullies are caught promptly and put behind bars, incidents of assault on commuters will come down drastically despite the shortage of services in the distant suburbs. It's only because railway authorities haven't cracked down on crime that disruptive elements have been emboldened. The railways should look at law enforcement as priority and then get down to the task of increasing services.
 
