AHMEDABAD: The number of vehicular accidents in   went down by more than 40% between 2007 and 2017, but the number of deaths per 100 traffic accidents jumped from 21 to 38.

 
 Data from the state transport department shows that there were 33,623 road accidents in Gujarat in 2007, while in 2017 this number came down to 19,081. However, while 6,915 persons died from road accidents in 2007, in 2017 the number rose to 7,289. 
 
 Transport officials said that the number of deaths per 100 accidents has risen from 30 to 38 in the last five years, an increase of more than 25%.
 
 A senior government officer said that with the increasing number of vehicles and with vehicles, especially cars, getting larger, accidents are getting more serious and minor accidents are not even reported.
 
 "The rate of fatal accidents involving two-wheelers is higher than for other vehicles. However, despite being riskier, two-wheelers continue to be popular due to their manoeuvrability through congested streets and traffic," said a transport official.
 
 Dr  , president of the  , said, "The number of accidents shows a drop because the reporting methodology is poor. Only when accidents involve major injuries or death are cases are reported to police. In cases involving minor injuries which do not threaten life, the victim prefers to go to a known doctor and work out a compromise. The reason is that few drivers want to get into legal hassles."
 
 Amit Khatri, a road safety expert, echoed Kanabar’s view and said that if no major injuries are involved, no cases are registered.
 
 Khatri said, "The other reason for low reporting of road accidents, I feel, is that many corporates have their own safety policies. For example, some have made helmets compulsory for employees using two-wheelers, while others have limited the maximum speed of vehicles of employees. This has also played a role in bringing down road accidents."
 
 Khatri added, "I feel and data proves that untrained professional vehicle drivers cause most major accidents and heavy vehicles driven by them also lead to greater casualties. If the training of commercial vehicle drivers is held properly and at shorter intervals, it will reduce fatalities."
 
 
