NEW DELHI: Faced with unprecedented opposition by   from across the city to the proposed amendments in   which would lead to a halt in sealings,   are trying to either skirt the real issues or deflect attention from them or simply brazen it out. Residents believe that the changes will dramatically increase ongoing commercial activities in these areas which lack civic and parking infrastructure. They also fear that encroachments by the traders will be regularized, making the chaos permanent.

  says the objections are “minor” in nature and can be addressed by the BJP-led local bodies. The  , meanwhile, claimed that RWAs were “not opposing” the proposed changes and were concerned about parking, lack of enforcement to check encroachments, commercial use of basements etc.
 
 Representatives of several RWAs met Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari on Wednesday to voice their grievances. “The RWAs are not against the amendments in the master plan. Their concern is that encroachments shouldn’t get legalised. They want space for pedestrians, encroachment removal and adequate parking space. The proposed amendments will not affect the residential character of colonies. It is only for shop-cum-residence plots,” argued Tiwari.
 
 AAP says it is the job of the civic bodies to provide parking sites in commercialized areas. “In areas with a space crunch, multilevel parking facilities can be developed,” suggested Saurabh Bharadwaj, chief spokesperson, AAP, Delhi. “There is not much conflict between the traders and RWAs. Some traders are also members of RWAs. A consensus can be found when the traders and RWAs sit together,” he said. He observed that around 80% of the shops in these markets had exceeded FAR but it was practically not possible to seal all such shops. 
 
 Delhi   chief Ajay Maken said that just as the traders' concerns were valid, RWAs too had a point. “The proposed amendments to increase FAR of shop-cum-residential complexes were actually not required. The provision to allow the FAR existed in the master plan of 1962 and the master plan of 2021 did not tinker with that. It is only giving rise to confusion among RWAs — that there will be retrospective legalisation. This is not the case," claimed Maken.
 
 While all three political parties agreed that RWAs’ concerns could easily be addressed, they blamed each other for the mess in the city. Tiwari blamed the AAP government for encroachments. “The government has encroached upon public space to open mohalla clinics on PWD roads,” he allged. When asked about the role of BJP-led corporations in checking encroachments, Tiwari said: “We have asked our councillors to ensure that there are no encroachments. But I want to ask what is the role of the Delhi CM?”
 
 
