Coimbatore: Markets regulator Sebi has decided that physical settlement of stock derivatives will be made mandatory in a phased manner. Stocks, which meet the enhanced eligibility criteria, will alone remain in the derivatives segment from April 2019. “A stock, on which option and future contracts are proposed to be introduced, shall be chosen from among the top-500 stocks in terms of average daily market capitalisation and average daily traded value in the previous six months on a rolling basis,” the regulator said. “The market wide position limit in the stock shall not be less than Rs 500 crore on a rolling basis, and the average daily delivery value in the cash market shall not be less than Rs 10 crore in the previous six months on a rolling basis,” it said. The stock’s median quarter-sigma order size over the last six months, on a rolling basis, should not be less than Rs 25 lakh. “Derivatives on stocks, which meet the enhanced eligibility criteria, shall be cash settled until further notification. However, such stocks, if they fail to satisfy any of the enhanced eligibility criteria for a continuous period of three months, shall move from cash settlement to physical settlement,” Sebi said in its latest circular.  “After moving to physical settlement, if such stocks do not meet any of the eligibility criteria for a continuous period of three months, then they shall exit from derivatives segment,” it said.  “After a period of one year from the date of this circular (April 11), only those stocks which meet the enhanced eligibility criteria shall remain in derivatives segment,” the regulator stated.  “The risk management framework, settlement mechanism and other procedures of the cash segment shall be applicable when a stock derivatives devolves into physical settlement,” it said.  “No new contract shall be issued on stocks that may exit the derivatives segment,” Sebi said. “However, the existing unexpired contracts may be permitted to trade till expiry and new strikes may also be introduced in the existing contract months,” it said. “Stock exchanges are directed to take necessary steps to put in place systems for implementation of the circular, including necessary amendments to the relevant bye-laws, rules and regulations, bring the provisions of this circular to the notice of the stock brokers/clearing members and also disseminate the same on their website,” the regulator said.