NEW DELHI: The  ,  , has written to the   to hand over   of the   held on Tuesday that was recorded.

 PS Manoj Parida has written the letter on behalf of chief secretary Anshu Prakash. He is learnt to have stated in the letter that two cameras were installed to record the proceedings, which were supposed to be confidential so that views could be expressed freely. Apart from Prakash and Parida, finance secretary S N Sahai was also present at the meeting. The officers were told that the recording would be released to the media. But that didn’t happen. Parida is learnt to have advised chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in the letter that there is no need to release the footage in public.
 
 When contacted, sources in the CM’s office confirmed that the meeting was recorded and the footage handed over to the department as sought by Parida. They said the decision to record was justified on the ground that it was done in light of the letter of the chief secretary to CM before the cabinet meeting where Anshu Prakash had said he would attend the meeting assuming that the CM would ensure that there was no physical or verbal assault on the officers.
 
 Tuesday’s meeting was held with police standing guard outside. The AAP government had earlier announced the intent to live-stream meetings other than those deemed confidential.
 
 Meanwhile, irked by the ‘non-cooperation’ of the bureaucrats, AAP has been claiming that top officers have been openly flouting service rules by engaging in political activities. The party also wants FIRs registered against the officials involved in “criminal conspiracy” to attack a minister inside the secretariat. AAP has further demanded that call records of officials involved in the “rebellion” should be probed to reveal their connections with BJP leaders.
 
 Senior AAP functionary Ashutosh told the media that “All India Service Conduct Rules 1968 clearly bar bureaucrats from engaging in political rhetoric”. “But a mockery of the rules is being made. IAS officers on Twitter, Facebook, TV and other media are criticising the AAP government, making statements against the chief minister, and using office premises for press conferences and protests. AAP condemns the atmosphere that is being created by the senior officials to instigate all employees,” Ashutosh said.
 
 AAP in its presser also played a two-minute video clip demonstrating the Twitter activity of a few IAS officers in the last few days. The clip was accompanied by dramatic background music. “There are numerous such officials, some of whom are even writing pieces for newspapers demanding the dismissal of the government,” said senior party leader and national spokesperson Dilip Pandey.
 
