AHMEDABAD: Protests against recent heinous rape cases — at Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir, Unnao in   and Surat in Gujarat — intensified with community leaders and organizations have raised their voices in protest.

 Patidar agitation leader   addressed a public rally in the Juhapura area of the city on Wednesday, where he asked the public to intensify their protests against these rape cases.
 
 About the Kathua gang rape and murder victim, Patel said, “It cannot be anyone’s concern whether she belongs to Islam or Hinduism. She was a little girl and a daughter of this country. I must say that there are people who try to instil hatred in us but that dead girl has united us as Indians, to raise our voice against the brutal crime.”
 
 “Not just the Kathua victim, but also the rape victims of Unnao and Surat were daughters of this country and we should not tolerate such incidents,” said Patel. The quota leader questioned the silence of political leaders on these rape cases and asked the people to raised their voice when the state was silent.
 
 Patel said that recent case of rape in Rajkot after the horrific incident of Surat show that law and order has deteriorated in the state. He said he will continue to protests against rape cases in Gujarat and in other states. 
 
 Patel shared the stage with Congress MLAs   and Imran Khedawala at the Gandhi community hall in Juhapura.
 
 A protest was also held near HK College on Ashram Road area by members of Sunni Aawami Forum (SAF) and Khoja Shia Ashna Ashari Samaj, demanding a quick trial and the death penalty for these rape cases. 
 
 “This protest is not just for the 8-year-old Kashmiri girl but all girls and women who are victims of such heinous crimes. We demand that the accused be given instant death penalty, as an exemplary punishment,” said Hazi Gazanfar Hussain Master, a resident of Kalupur.
 
 “There has been an increase in the number of rapes in the country. There should be emphasis on implementation of capital punishment as an absolute weapon against rapists, to send out a strong message and protect the rights of women in the country,” said  , a businessman who was at the protest venue.
 
 “The law should be the same for everyone. It is time the judiciary and other authorities wake up to such crimes and make law more strict laws and ensure speedy trials,” said Usman Qureshi, secretary of SAF Ahmedabad.
 
 
