PANAJI: In a bid to increase awareness, Goa   has decided to embark on a special drive to enrol roadside vendors, shopkeepers, taxi drivers and motorcycle pilots under the   sentinel scheme.

 Speaking to TOI, director general of police (DGP)   said that most of the roadside vendors are unaware about the scheme that was launched in November last year. 
 
 The DGP said that during an informal interaction with roadside vendors, taxi drivers, motorcycle pilots, etc, he realised that most of them are not aware about the scheme. 
 
 Chander also said that   will distribute pamphlets printed in Konkani and Marathi, explaining how they can enrol themselves under the traffic   scheme.
 
 “During their spare time, they can click photos of traffic violators on their phones, send it to Goa Police and earn extra money,” he said.
 
 The DGP also said that the traffic police are in process of having their second reward function under the scheme. 
 
 He also said that this time, one sentinel has earned Rs 38,000 by reporting violators to the traffic police. During the first reward function, the maximum reward given was Rs 28,000. 
 
 More than 1,000 citizens had registered with the traffic police after the traffic sentinel scheme was launched on November 10 last year. 
 
 It is a platform on WhatsApp through which citizens can report traffic violations in the state to the traffic cell, and earn cash rewards.
 
 Every quarter of the year there will be a car and bike reward for traffic sentinels who report traffic violations through WhatsApp, chief minister   had announced.
 
 Through the scheme, citizens can send photos and videos of the violations along with the details of the erring vehicle, such as its number plate, to 7875756110.
 
 Based on the type of violation, the user receives points. For instance, reporting an instance of triple-seat riding on a two-wheeler will earn them 10 points, while parking on footpaths or zebra crossings will accrue three points.
 
 On an average, 4,000 challans are issued in Goa every day. These are for various violations such as rash and negligent driving, not wearing seatbelts, etc.
 
 The state transport department had also launched a citizen app earlier this year. Called 'Complaint Registration', it allows citizens to file complaints about traffic violations.
 
 
