KOLKATA: Several Kolkatans, now settled in Toronto, were left shaken by the van attack in the Canadian city that killed 10 and injured 15 on Tuesday. They feared terrorism may have cast its shadow in the country and wished the incident turned out to be an accident and not an attack.

 Finance professional  , who has been living in Toronto for the last four years, was returning from office at Richmond Hill when transport officials informed him that no conveyance was available due to an emergency. Even as   walked along   — the incident spot — he stumbled upon bodies of victims that were still lying on the sidewalk.
 
 “It was a horrible sight. Initially I thought some construction work was going on or an accident occurred. It was only after I came close to the spot I got to know about the terror attack. The entire area was cordoned off by police and pedestrians had to take a detour to avoid the spot. Some of the bodies were still lying on the sidewalk and there was blood all around. I found it difficult to imagine that it actually happened,” he said.
 
 Management consultant   was having lunch at a downtown eatery around 15km away when the news of the attack was flashed on TV. Bagchi, who is in his early thirties and has been living and working in Toronto for more than a decade, couldn’t believe his eyes. “I was shocked that such a thing happened in Toronto — a perfectly peaceful place. It was terrible to see the bodies being carried off. There was fear in the eyes of those present in the area. This is an alien feeling for us living here, far from the shadows of terrorism. Everyone around me was equally horrified,” he said.
 
 He added that if the incident was linked to the terror that happened in Europe last year, then it was a matter of concern for Toronto.
 
 Suman Nag, an application analyst working in Toronto for the last three years, said the news made him jittery. “It was a terrible day for Toronto. I was working from home when I saw the news on TV. The spot is near the downtown core financial area which is a far from where I stay. But it could have happened in my neighbourhood,” he said.
 
 Nag added that even though it was reassuring that initial investigation revealed it was not associated with terrorism, it remained a matter of concern. “Toronto is very peaceful and I have never heard anything like this in my seven years of stay in  ,” Nag said.
 
 Datta, too, wished that the investigations proved that it was not an act of terror. “The Toronto police is still investigating it and the motive is unclear. I hope this is just one of those accidents and not an act of terror,” he said.
 
