CHENNAI: Playing the caste card,   minister D   vouched support for adi dravida   dwellers of Katpada area near Moolakothalam in the city in the wake of opposition to a slum clearance housing project in the locality from  .

 “I assure that the state government is solidly behind adi dravida people. I am behind them,’’ he told reporters in Chennai on Sunday soon after a clash between residents of the locality and MDMK men who opposed the housing project. 
 
 Jayakumar also urged MDMK leader   to drop the opposition. Vaiko had stridently opposed the Rs 139-crore project on the grounds that tombs of   martyrs Thalamuthu and Natarajan in the locality would be razed for building the houses. 
 
 “Is it wrong to provide houses for the poor and downtrodden?” Jayakumar asked. Vaiko, who inspected the burial ground, a portion of which was proposed to be acquired for the housing project, had said few days back that he would not allow the tombs to be razed.
 
 There was tension in the air in the locality since morning as a large number of residents from Ramadass Nagar, Bojarajan Nagar and Milk depot in Moolakothalam, who supported the construction, gathered near the MDMK office raising slogans against the MDMK chief.
 
 They raised slogans from 10.45am to 11.10am near Langs Garden Road roundabout when a heated argument broke out with a few partymen, asked them to move away. Police managed to pacify the protestors. A few MDMK partymen also picked up argument with police as well, demanding they disperse the crowd. Things took a violent turn when few MDMK cadres who were at their party office for a student wing meeting damaged an autorickshaw mistaking its passengers for locals who were raising objections to the MDMK’s opposition. Only after they tried to manhandle the occupants of the auto were they told that the passengers was their own partymen, who had come to attend the meeting. 
 
 The incident irked the residents further adding to the tension. Traffic was disrupted for 30 minutes in the locality as the public blocked the road. Vaiko later told reporters that there was no change in the party’s stand regarding the project.
 
 
