BENGALURU: In 1996, when   (Secular) (also known as the JDS) national president   became the Prime Minister with just 16 Members of Parliament, not many believed the luck which had favoured the regional party from the South.

 
 Twenty-
 , having won over 15% of seats in the Karnataka assembly, a similar situation has risen in the state — Gowda’s son and JD(S) state president HD   is on the cusp of becoming the 23rd chief minister of Karnataka.
 
 Such is the   family luck that if   only commits to giving outside support, of the 38 JD(S) MLAs, 33 will become ministers in the next government, along with Kumaraswamy as chief minister.
 
 
 
 
 Over the past two decades, JD(S) has survived largely by being the kingmaker in state politics. While the party may have lost power in 2008, and has been in the opposition for 10 years, it came back into the reckoning in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) with only 14 corporators of 198 seats in the 2015 polls. The kingmaker tag ruined the BJP’s chances of forming the local government in the capital city, despite winning 101 seats in 2015 by joining hands with the Congress and even secured a deputy mayoral post for five years.
 
 
 
 
 Over the past three months, while exuding confidence of coming to power with an absolute majority, party sources claim JD(S) was secretly hoping for it to at the least become a kingmaker. “The party was never going to go beyond its bastion and a few constituencies outside Old Mysuru region. However, by coming to power, the party is certainly going to get a morale booster to expand,” said a party worker.
 
 
 , the re-run of the BBMP elections appears to have captured the political narrative in Karnataka polls.
 
 Purely on the basis of community backing, JD(S) consolidation of Vokkaliga votes in its bastion of four districts of Hassan, Mysuru, Ramanagara and Mandya propelled them to reach 30 seats. The other eight seats were secured in the rest of Karnataka.
 
 While the popular mandate may have rested with BJP and Congress, JD(S) has become a vital force for the incumbent ruling party to thwart the BJP from coming to power with only 18% vote share. However, party leaders cite that the tag of kingmaker this time was not the fault of JD(S) but of the Congress.
 
 “If not for the Congress, which aggressively targeted us and kept calling us BJP’s ‘B’ team, we could have won in another 35 seats. The Congress, instead of targeting BJP, kept focusing on us to consolidate the minority votebank. We were certain of securing a reckoning number if not for them,” said a party leader.
 
 
 
 
 Such is the luck of the JD(S), despite having lost three more seats than they gained in 2013, the party got the golden opportunity to lead the government. “The JD(S) has joined hands with the Congress in the interest of Karnataka’s land, water and language. Nothing more,” said JD(S) spokesperson and MLC Ramesh Babu.
 
