SURAT: The man-made textile research association (Mantra) and the South Gujarat Textile Processors’ Association (SGTPA) have joined hands to launch a post graduate diploma course in textile chemistry (DTC) to create a pool of technically skilled people to work in the textile processing sector. 

 The course has been specially designed for the BSc chemistry graduates and there will be three semesters during the course period of one and a half years. For six months, the students will be given practical training in the textile mills on the monthly stipend of Rs 7,000. A career guidance seminar is being organized at Mantra for the interested chemistry students on Friday. 
 
 The textile chemistry is a highly specialised field that applies the principles of the basics of chemistry to understanding the textile materials and their functional and aesthetic modifications into useful and desirable items. The textile chemistry emphasise on the fundamental principles of polymer science, dyeing and finishing technology, colour science, dye chemistry and fibre formation. 
 
 Surat and its surrounding areas including Kim-Pipodara, Palsana, Sachin and Kadodara house about 450 textile dyeing and printing mills. For the last many years, the textile processors have been experiencing a serious shortage of the technically skilled staff to perform the important operations like laboratory, printing, quality control etc. 
 
 At present, the textile processing sector in the city and surrounding areas require more than 700 skilled people to look after the technical side in the factories. 
 
 Until 1998, the Mantra was running a diploma course in textile technology. However, the course was closed after 1998 due to the non-availability of students as most of the pass-outs had got placements in the textile processing units at that time. 
 
 Council member of Mantra, Kamal  , told TOI: “Mantra has started this post graduate diploma course in textile chemistry with 100% placement in the factories. The textile processing sector has witnessed a massive change since 1998 in terms of technology and modernization. Now, the textile processing sector is going digital and we require technically-sound staff for the day-to-day operations.” 
 
 Tulsiyan added, “The pass-outs will not only get the job opportunities in Surat’s textile mills, but they have ample job opportunities in the countries like Japan, Bangkok, Pakistan and  , where the textile sector is growing by leaps and bounds.”
 
 
