Chandigarh: Professor of religious studies in Punjabi University Gurmeet Singh Sidhu pointed out “glaring mistakes” in the new history book of Class XII, published by Punjab School Education Board (PSEB).

 Addressing media persons here on Friday, Sidhu, also a member of Gurgyan Institute for Human Concerns at Patiala, said, “There is half-baked information about Sikh history and numerous mistakes in the book.”
 
 He also raised an objection on the introduction of the chapter on transformation of Sikhism. The professor added, “Experts who designed the new syllabus were not academically strong and they should have returned their degrees for spoiling children’s future.”
 
 He said there was a need to involve at least five senior professors in the expert committee to review the history syllabus.
 
 Sidhu said the PSEB members have misled the Punjab chief minister on the issue. He added the new history book cannot be directly introduced in Class XII after the amendment in the syllabus and there was a need to first introduce the amended book in Class XI and then in Class XII.
 
 The professor said he has also submitted his report to the chief minister and has demanded to come out with the new book. He suggested till the new book is not prepared after seeking public objection on the draft book and sending it for review to subject experts, the PSEB should continue with the old book for this year.
 
 “The education minister is claiming that the government would ban guides, but I would say there would be more need of such guides after introduction of this book,” said professor Sidhu.
 
 He added everyone has the right to approach the Akal Takht and he would also see if he needed to approach the Akal Takht for protecting religious sentiments of Sikhs. He added there are various chapters in the Class XII history book in which even basic facts have been concealed and some aspects have been described in misleading ways.
 
 Professor Sidhu said rather than thinking of children’s future, political parties have made it a political issue with politics taking over the intellectual aspect. He added even the school teachers are being forced by the PSEB to download the PDF (portable document format) file of the history book to teach students.
 
 
