CHANDIGARH

 : Former wealth manager of a private bank   and his mother   have been booked by Sector 19 police for duping Sector 38 resident of Rs 49 lakh rupees on pretext of providing visa for Australia. Cases have already been registered at several police stations of Chandigarh and   for duping people of crores.
 
 In his complaint, victim   alleged that he knew Arun for over three years. The accused and his mother told him that they have direct links in Australia and as per new immigration policy, they would arrange visa for him and his family on a permanent basis in 2017. They had also assured the Verma family that the entire process will be completed in six months and demanded Rs 75 lakhs for the visas of the entire family. According to complainant, on April 28, 2017, Kamladeep paid Rs 9.5 lakh. Then, 29.5 lakh was paid to the accused in May and Rs 9 lakh was paid in June. In July,   transferred another installment of Rs 10 lakh through RTGS to the account of Sudesh Kumari.
 
 Later, when Kamaldeep inquired about the status of his application, they replied that it was pending and was likely to be accepted soon. Once, they get the approval, they would seek their passport for getting the visa.
 
 After not getting any response from the accused for a couple of days, Kamaldeep inquired about the process of immigration from another person who was also in the same business. This person then told Kamaldeep that there is no such policy of the Australian government in which visa could be applied without passport.
 
 After this, Kamaldeep contacted the accused again. Not getting any satisfactory answer, he asked them to return the money. They then gave a cheque of Rs 49 lakh to Kamaldeep which bounced due to insufficient funds in the account. When Kamaldeep told them about the dishonour of the cheque, they clearly refused to return his money.
 
 Following which Kamladeep gave a complaint to Sector 19 police station and after taking legal advice on the matter, police registered a case of cheating against Arun and his mother. Arun Saluja was already booked in many fraud cases by police and was arrested by the Panchkula police and EOW of UT police brought him on production warrant for interogation on December, 2017.
 
 
