JODHPUR: Asaram followers turned witnesses, who had been with him for long and even obtained baptism from him, laid bare his prurience. 

 According to statements of these witnesses, Asaram would keep a sharp eye on the girls around him during his sermons and at his ashrams. He would indicate in a specific manner to a gang of three women namely Dale alias Nirmla, Bunglo alias Meera and Dasa alias Krishna about “his choices’’.
 
 One of the witnesses  , who had obtained baptism from Asaram in 1996, had deposed before the court that Asaram used to be a very lecherous person and used to try to have physical relations with every girl in the ashram. “He had a unique way of indicating to the gang of trio about the girl who had caught his interest. It was done by either throwing some ‘prasad’ on that girl or throwing a torch light on that girl,” he deposed in the court.
 
 After this, the gang of trio was up to the task to lure that particular girl into Asaram’s ‘kutia’ after brain washing her and presenting Asaram as a holy spirit, who would accord salvation to her.
 
 This was also deposed by another witness  , who had been attacked in the broad day light in the court campus of Jodhpur during trial of the case.
 
 According to these witnesses, his modus operandi was a little different for the girls with their parents like in the case of the victim in the present case, in which he had been pronounced life imprisonment.
 
 “He would begin with formal conversation with the girl in the presence of his parents like what she was studying and what she wanted to be in future,” said Sachan in his deposition, who also had obtained baptism from Asaram in 1995.
 
 “Just be with me. I would give you everything. There is nothing in studies. Highly educated and settled ones like judges, IPS, IAS etc bow to me. You will have to be slave to your employer while if you will be with me, you will be superior,” Singh had stated in his deposition citing Asaram. 
 
 Interestingly, these witnesses have claimed to have had heard many such stories from several of his followers. Both Sachan and Singh, when protested had been threatened by Asaram and his son  ,who also hads been facing trial in a similar case of rape in Gujarat. 
 
 Sachan had been attacked stabbed with a knife at the Jodhpur court premises on February 13, 2015. He is missing since November 2015.
 
 
