Panaji: The La Liga title race is becoming all too predictable. If it’s not Barcelona, there will be Real Madrid. Atletico Madrid’s stunning title triumph in 2014 remains an aberration, and although they are only five points behind Barcelona in this year’s title race, nobody is betting on them to create another upset.

 Barcelona are just too powerful, matched on and off the field only by Real Madrid, who won the title last season after being out in the cold for four agonising years.
 
 The two-horse race in the La Liga still makes it an interesting contest, feels La Liga ambassador and former Valencia midfielder Gaizka  , although given the strength of the two Spanish giants, they would simply dominate any other league as well.
 
 “If you put Barcelona and Madrid in the (English)  , they will also win more than any other side. That’s the potential, strength and powers that these teams have,” Mendieta told TOI in a telephonic conversation on Friday.
 
 “It’s difficult (for other teams to win La Liga) in the same way it’s difficult in any other league, whether it’s Premier League or Bundesliga. Bayern Munich, Manchester United, Chelsea have been winning it as long as Barcelona and Madrid. The La Liga infact has more champions options than any other league in the last 20-25 years,” said Mendieta, who was Spain’s most expensive footballing export when he moved to Lazio from Valencia in 2001 after captaining Valencia to two successive UEFA Champions League finals, both of which they lost.
 
 As Mendieta said, Valencia, Deportivo and Atletico Madrid have won the La Liga in the last 20-25 years, although apart from Atletico in 2014, nobody has been able to displace the Clasico giants for the last 15 years. In sharp contrast, the Premier League has seen five different winners.
 
 Mendieta, himself, didn’t win the La Liga when with Valencia between 1993 and 2001. A middle-distance runner who became a top footballer and was voted European Midfielder of the Year, twice, Mendieta left the club for Lazio – in the sixth biggest transfer deal -- and Valencia responded by winning the league twice in three years, an achievement that didn’t surprise the perfect penalty taker.
 
 “I wasn’t surprised because during those years, the entry of a lot of young players had laid the foundation to last for another 10 years. You could see that although some players like myself left the club, the foundation was still there. They kept the quality and the challenge in the team. It wasn’t a surprise that they won. You could expect that from this team,” said Mendieta.
 
 
