GURDASPUR: Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has announced to give   certificates worth Rs 156.12 crore to 26,998 farmers from six districts on Thursday on the birth anniversary of ninth Sikh master Guru Teg Bahadur. 

 As a token gesture, Amarinder handed over debt waiver certificates to six farmers, one from each of the six districts of Gurdaspur,  , Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Nawanshahr and Hoshiarpur on the occasion. The CM said that the state government had also decided to give a financial assistance worth Rs. 50,000 each to landless labourers to bail them out of the current agrarian crisis.
 
 Amarinder also announced upgradation of cooperative sugar mill at Paniar in Gurdaspur district for making it economically viable. He added that so far debt relief to the tune of Rs 457 crore had been disbursed to nearly 1.02 lakh farmers in three different phases, covering 16 districts of Mansa, Bathinda, Faridkot, Muktsar, Moga, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr and Pathankot. 
 
 “After completing the debt relief scheme of cooperative loans, the state government will soon begin waiving off farm debts from commercial banks that will be completed by the end of the year,” he said, adding that the government was doing loan waivers despite massive financial crisis.
 
 “We are giving maximum financial assistance to the farmers in terms of debt waiver relief up to Rs 2 lakh, which is highest in country,” he said, adding that in case of Uttar Pradesh it was Rs 1 lakh, while Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra were writing off only Rs 50,000 each.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee ( ) chief   flayed the NDA government at the Centre over the issue of GST on langar items at the Golden Temple and for compensation to the   victims’ families. He also accused the Union government of deliberately overlooking the interests and rights of Scheduled Castes.
 
 Jakhar also dared Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal to start a padyatra from Pathankot to Delhi over the farmers’ issues, including debt waiver. Among others who addressed the gathering were rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, education minister   and MLAs from Dera Baba Nanak and Gurdaspur Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Barindermeet Singh Pahra.
 
 Medical college for Gurdaspur
 
 The Punjab government would open a medical college at Gurdaspur to provide best healthcare and diagnostic services to the people. While addressing a gathering here on Thursday chief minister Amarinder Singh asked PPCC president Sunil Jakhar to identify suitable land in consultation with the local MLAs for the proposed medical college. Earlier Jakhar had raised a demand with Amarinder for opening of a medical college. 
 
 
