LUDHIANA: In order to ease the heavy rush in Jammu-bound trains,   authorities introduced as many as six summer specials to Jammu Tawi (Katra-Mata Vaishno Devi), which would pass through the city railway station on different days of the week. With the commencement of a bunch of Jammu-bound trains, city-based passengers are making plans to visit Jammu to travel to Kashmir for respite from the hot and humid weather conditions in summer here. 

 
 Providing information about the total number of trains passing through the city railway station this summer, station director Abhinav Gupta stated: “There are several trains passing through this station towards Jammu, but in view of the upcoming summer vacations, some special trains have been introduced by Northern Railways for the benefit of pilgrims who want to visit Jammu. One of the main reasons for introducing many trains towards Jammu is that most rail commuters from Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Mumbai, and Gujarat are eager to travel to J&K during their summer vacations. All these trains will remain in service until the end of summer for the convenience of passengers.”
 
 Enquiry officials at Ludhiana railway station informed that the first summer special to be introduced is the Katra Special from Delhi Junction to Mata Vaishno Devi. It will run every Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from Delhi to Katra from the last week of May until August. Another two major long distance trains, which will pass through Ludhiana are Shri   Katra-Anand Vihar Superfast Express, which will run twice a week, remaining in service until the last week of July. Then, the Jammu Tawi-Bandra Terminus Summer Special will commence from the month-end, and pass through the city station twice a week. In the other direction from Bandra Terminus to Jammu Tawi, it will run three days a week for the convenience of passengers.
 
 Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus-Jammu Tawi Express will run from the first week of June, and pass through Ludhiana six days a week, while   too will pass through the city railway station six days a week, and will commence from month-end. Finally, Suvidha Express from Shri Mata Vaishno Dev Katra to   has already been pressed into service for the city’s rail commuters.
 
