Vijayawada: Chief minister N Chandrababu   expressed shock and anger over the   of the 9-year-old on Thursday and directed the police to take immediate measures to nab the culprit. He even asked officials to announce a cash   for those who can provide information on the accused.

 The Dachepalli shocker, coming on the heels of similar disturbing incidents being reported from across the country, has jolted the city. Naidu further ordered local ministers and state women’s commission chairman to visit Dachepalli to console the victim and her family. He also instructed Guntur GGH to offer all medical help and assured that the government will extend all help to the victim’s family.
 
 On the other hand, YSRC chief Jaganmohan Reddy held the state government and the chief minister responsible for the incident. He said many such incidents happened in the recent past across the state and most of the cases had some TDP connection, which is why the accused were not brought to justice. He also posed a question to Naidu — “Aren’t you responsible for no action taken?” — on his Twitter handle.
 
 Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan also advocated strong punishment to the accused. State women’s commission chairman Nannapaneni Rajakumari said the perpetrators should be barred from the society, while adding that public punishment could deter such incidents.
 
 Congress state chief N Raghuveera Reddy also found fault with the state government for not taking stringent measures to contain such kind of incidents. He said Andhra Pradesh is in sixth position in the country when it comes to atrocities against women and children. “The government should wake up at least now and take strong measures so that these kind of ghastly incidents are not repeated in future,” he said.
 
 The All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) held a protest march in Vijayawada demanding justice for the victim. D Ramadevi, state secretary of AIDWA, demanded that the government should set up a fast track court to punish the culprits within two months.
 
 
