A seven-kilometre-long promenade, the sea, river and creek, picturesque hillocks, stepped streets, heritage homes, quaint streets lined with homes fashioned in an architectural style unique to Goa are just some of the treasures of the capital city of   that also boasts of being garbage bin- free. The city’s singular characteristics ensure that the floating population it receives is almost double and, during the peak tourist season, more than triple.

 The first western-style local authority called the   (Goa’s first senate) was established at (Velha) Goa by Afonso de Albuquerque around 1511, in Old Goa, in the vicinity of the Se Cathedral. The senate was originally composed of six senators and could deal directly with the crown, which brought it in confrontation with state authorities. 
 
 Historian Percival   writes that the royal assent for the establishment of the senate and the charter bestowing upon citizens of Old Goa several privileges enjoyed by citizens of Lisbon were officially promulgated only on 
 March 2, 1518. 
 
 These historical documents and other provisions, edits and orders are recorded along with copies in a book bound in red velvet with the arms of the Old Senate on its cover. The arms are represented by a shield topped by a crown in relief over the wheel of the martyrdom of St Catherine of Alexandria on which date Afonso de Albuquerque entered the city on November 25, 1510. The title of the Senate was ‘Nobre e Leal Senado da Camara de Goa’ (Noble and   of the City of Goa) and the book is presently in the custody of the now Corporation of the City of Panaji in the capital city. 
 
 In view of epidemics in the city of Old Goa, the senado appealed to the crown on December 11, 1819, to shift its headquarters to Panaji. “Here it was housed in several private buildings and again in 1845 shifted to S Pedro (Panvel). From here, soon it was transferred to Panjim. Finally, the ‘Camara Municipal de Goa’ ( ), the successor of the old Senado constructed its own building, which was quite imposing, in front of the present municipal garden,” Noronha writes. 
 
 In 1858, a loan was sanctioned and the municipality was permitted to borrow to begin construction work. “On October 8, 1859, stones from the former convent of Madre de Deus of Daugim and timber from government forests were sanctioned for its construction. When the municipality building was completed, the road in front of it came to be known as Rua da Camara. These developments took place during the governorship of Conde de Torres Novas, one of the most dynamic of the Portuguese governors,” historian   writes in ‘Snapshots of Indo-Portuguese History’. An imposing clock tower was also constructed through public subscription. 
 
 Unfortunately, a part of the building collapsed on July 13, 1954, killing three persons Cabo Jose   Rodrigues from Guarda, Portugal, Minguel Serafim de Almeida from Taleigao and Luis Gozaga Caldeira from Merces. The building was finally demolished in 1957 to make way for a more imposing building. “This project never took off the ground, and this is how Pangim lost one of its most important and distinguishing architectural assets,” Pinho writes. 
 It was only on February 21, 1973, after Goa’s liberation from Portuguese rule, that the foundation stone for the present building was laid by then chief minister Dayanand Bandodkar. 
 
 The older   do Comercio (the business plaza), a U-shaped complex behind the municipality building, was constructed during the 1930s at the initiative of the municipal authority to accommodate around 20 business enterprises.
 
 “Both wings of the building still exist in the original form,” Pinho says, explaining that the building starts from   followed by Tipografia Sadananda, Cruz Vermelha Batta, Farmacia Salcete and goes through the bend all around the turn until it reaches the subsequently installed telegraph office and its treasury section where at present telephone bills are paid. The space was earlier used as a stand for horse-drawn 
 carriages. 
 
 The corporation is now pursuing the construction of a new modern and imposing structure in place of the Praca do Comercio.
 
 1511
 First municipal senate (senado) in Asia was set up in Goa
 1822
 The Senado was replaced by Camara Municipal de Goa
 1843
  The capital of Goa was shifted to Panaji
 1858
 Construction began of Pangim’s Pacos Municipais (municipality palace)
 Apr 1858
 The Junta da Fazenda sanctioned a loan of 5,840 xerafins as advance to the builder
 Oct 1859
 The building was to house besides the municipality, the Administracao do Concelho das Ilhas, Administracao das Comunidades, Administracao das Confrarias and Fabrica (administrative body of parish church properties) 
 Oct 1863
 A deed stated that one-third of the building was to belong to the general assembly of the comunidades of Ilhas 
 1865
 Work began on erection of an imposing clock tower. The funds were raised through a public subscription
 
 
