LUCKNOW: The two-day-long investors’ summit will see close to 17 Union ministers chair multiple sessions. Along with a few closed-door meetings over the two days, Prime Minister   will also host “select 20 CEOs” for a high tea after the inaugural session on February 21.

 The first day is likely to see 12 sessions, including at least two closed-door sessions. One will be on the new industrial policy and will be chaired by Union minister for commerce and industry Suresh Prabhu while the other will be between chief minister   and CEOs of various companies.
 
  
  
 
 “We have seven partner countries and one-and-a-half to two-hour meetings with each will be held through the day. These will be attended by state ministers and officials who will discuss potential for these countries to invest in UP. So far, ministers like Suresh Rana, Siddharthnath Singh, Suresh Khanna, Keshav Prasad Maurya and Srikant Sharma have been asked to attend these meetings,” said sources.
 
 The open sessions, said a senior official, will focus on key sectors that the government is promoting through this summit.
 
 “The reason for inviting Union ministers to chair these sessions makes it clear that the state government is serious about honouring its commitments and that we have the Centre’s backing for our plans. All sessions will be chaired by one Union minister and one state minister,” said the official.
 
 On day 1, Union transport minister   will chair the session on propelling infrastructure development in the state while minister of state Raj Kumr Singh will chair the session on renewable energy. Minister of state for MSME Giriraj Singh will chair the session on MSMEs while Union textile minister Smriti Irani will lead discussions on opportunities in textiles and handloom.
 
 Discussions will also take place on the rise of various sectors in UP. These include electronics, pharmaceuticals and biotechnology, agriculture, food processing and dairy and tourism and environment, to be led by Union ministers Manoj Sinha, Anupriya Patel, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Alphons Kannaanthanam and Mahesh Sharma respectively. Home minister   will lead a session on industrial and infrastructure safety.
 
 The second day will see two sessions on targeting foreign investments.
 
