"How are you?”
“Average.” 
 
 That usually elicits another question. “Why, what’s wrong?”
 
 Apparently, nothing if you ask a new sub-cult of millennials who are choosing, and trying hard to be just that – average. Not Good. Not Great. And certainly not Excellent.
 
 How did it come to be? Why has Average become the go-to word for these youngsters? Wasn’t it Excellence, Great, Super?
 
 In an interview to AFP, 23-year-old Guo Jia explains why she’s chosen to  . He says, “Life is quite tiring. I haven’t been able to stop caring about everything, but these days, I am generally calm and unperturbed. It is enough to just be content with life.” Jia, along with his peers, call themselves ‘Buddhist Youth’ – a group happy just letting things be. They aren’t in the rat race to be perfect, dream big and work endlessly to live the ‘big dream’. They just want to be content by being a part of the crowd. Isn’t it the exact opposite of whatever has been taught to us? Be different. Stand out. Pursue excellence... 
 
 
 Bhavik Vasa, chief growth officer, Ebixcash says the ‘average’ idea resonates with him precisely because of this “pursuit of excellence” that has fatigued this generation. “The start-up generation has over-glamourised speed and excellence. And this pursuit of trying to do everything fast and well has taken a toll on them. Look at the number of people in their 20s who are quitting the rat race. It’s not human to run endlessly after excellence.”
 
 Aged 25, investment banker Ritesh Chopra, feels exhausted. “I could not deal with anxiety anymore. I realised it was better to just flow with the natural order of things and let things be.” He left his high-profile job to pursue organic farming.
 
 Research shows that performing at high levels can also make our peers resent us, which in turn affects our own emotions – negativity breeds negativity. Corporate guru Azim Jamal says this generation sees the irony of chasing materialistic or ‘soulless’ ideals because they have seen their parents — the previous generation — damage themselves in an endless whirlpool of envy and negativity. “Youngsters are realising that this race is pointless, and doesn’t give joy that lasts for more than a few minutes before making us sad again,” he says.
 
 There’s no shame attached with the term Average anymore. Author Ashok Chopra says, “Youngsters are self-aware these days. They recognise their strengths, but more importantly, they have befriended their faults.” This was something that previous generations ignored or completely brushed under the carpet.
 
 Chopra adds, “Today’s youth knows the value of money but is also aware of its limitations. Nobody is interested anymore in the pursuit of money. The 20s are known to be an age of learning. And the youth have cracked the biggest lesson of all – running in the rat race doesn’t take you places; pursuing your passion does. Slowing down, does.”
 
 Being average is the new smart – a place where you have to be rich in terms of life experiences, memories, and culture, the things that feed the soul.
 
 
 
 
 The Buddhist Youth accepts the things they cannot change. This quest for all things flawless, according to them, has dehumanised us and robbed us of the ability to accept human frailty; effectively pushing us to the edge of insanity. The Buddhist Youth believe in: eating the same food every day, allowing one’s romantic partner to make all the decisions and being devoid of strong feelings about virtually everything. They simply want to go with the flow. 
 
 
 
 The pressure of their (parents’) fond ambition made
 Their shy and country-loving child afraid
 No sensible career was good enough,
 Only a hero could deserve such love...
 …The silence roared displeasure: 
 looking down,
 He saw the shadow of an Average Man
 Attempting the exceptional, and ran.
 In short, Auden says as individuals we have clear capabilities and gifts, which when exceeded or undermined, can fail each one of us.
 
 The 20s are known to be an age of learning. And the youth have cracked the biggest lesson of all – running in the rat race doesn’t take you places; pursuing your passion does — Ashok Chopra, author
 
 This generation sees the irony of chasing materialistic or ‘soulless’ ideals because they have seen their parents damage themselves in an endless whirlpool of envy – almost spending their whole lives in a hamster wheel
 
 
