LUDHIANA: Following the pattern of Ludhiana, unique identity number plates will be installed in all properties in the state, and for this purpose, a committee has been formed to get the system implemented. Here in the city, work to install UID number plates had started last year, but so far, only 8,500 are installed in five blocks of the city. Officials claimed the speed to install number plates would now increase in the city. 

 According to a survey conducted by   officials, there are more than four lakh properties falling in 37 blocks. MC officials have been claiming they did not get complete data from the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC), and this is the reason they could not provide complete details of all properties to the company. One official said they had received the complete data of 1.05 lakh properties, but even from these, plates will be installed in 80,000 properties, because the rest are vacant plots.
 
 Notably, installation of UID number plates was kicked off from Block 26 in Ward No.49 on June 23, and so far, plates have been installed outside 8,500 houses. The areas which have been covered include Ghumar Mandi, Model House, Atam Nagar, Feroze Gandhi Market, Maharaj Nagar, Model Gram, Model House, Sarabha Nagar, Harnam Nagar, Kochar Market,  , and  . In these areas, plates are installed in 60 to 70% properties.
 
 Meanwhile, MC superintendent   — who has been included in this committee — said installation of UID number plates would expedite in the city, and now it would be implemented in 10 MCs and 135 municipal committees in the state. He said the committees would prepare a plan to implement the scheme at the state level, where they would decide the size, rate, and material of plates.
 
 Notably, the UID number is an 18-digit number, which comprises zone number, block number, road ID, property ID, and property sub-ID, but on this number plate, only a five-digit property number will be written, and the rest of the numbers are for officials records. UID number plates will give a single identity to any property. Apart from this, MC has plans to connect property tax, water, and sewerage, and even TS-1 with this UID number, and people will get details about their tax amount and dues in just one click. 
 
 
