By- Rajeev.KR@timesgroup.com

 KOZHIKODE: While nationalisation moves by Gulf countries (like Nitaqat in  ) have left many Malayalis jobless and cast a shadow on jobs of tens of thousands of expatriates, the state government is planning to lessen its impact through their effective rehabilitation.
 
 Local bodies have been asked to give priority to expatriates and Gulf returnees while selecting beneficiaries for subsidies provided to various group entrepreneurship projects. In addition, expats will be granted priority during beneficiary selection of almost a dozen projects, ranging from horticulture to small-scale industries to be implemented by the three-tier institutions as plan projects this fiscal.
 
 
 “It is for the first time that the government has asked local bodies to focus on expatriates and returnees while selecting beneficiaries of various plan projects. The over 25 lakhstrong non-resident Keralites have been the backbone of the Kerala economy and it is the duty of the state to help those who are now forced to return home,” said K T Jaleel, minister for local self-government.
 
 The renewed focus on expats has been highlighted in the guidelines issued by local self-governement for the remaining years of the 13th five year plan.
 
 For instance, the department has drawn up a dedicated entrepreneurship project for expatriates under which local bodies can provide Rs five lakh as subsidy to set up community cattle shed enterprise and mini dairy farm.
 
 They can also take investments from other expats either in the form of money or accept dairy animals for rearing in the farm.
 
 The other projects are setting up goat breeding unit, broiler chicken rearing unit, floriculture including cultivation of cut and loose flowers, taxis and autorickshaws for selfemployment schemes, etc.
 
 Also, the government has suggested the local body institutions to consider setting up a revolving fund and interest subsidy on loans for promoting common interest groups by young entrepreneurs including expatriates.
 
