NEW DELHI: Sunday's   final at Colombo's R   proved to be one for the ages, with  's scarcely believable innings giving India four-wicket win off the last ball of the match - which was scythed over the offside for a flat six. 

 
 
 
 
 This gave India the tri-series title, and in a manner that few could have envisioned after  's wicket-maiden 18th over in which the rookie   struggled to put bat to ball as the tension was ratcheted up. 
 
 
 
 
 On a pulsating night of various hues, here are the five most important passages for India. 
 
 
 
 
 T20 cricket has seen some stunning boundary catches, which has underlined the emphasis on athleticism and quick thinking by the men patrolling the ropes. To this impressive list can be added one of the best efforts by an Indian fielder. Off the second ball from Yuzvendra Chahal, Tamim Iqbal swung down toward long-on where pace bowler   steadied himself and took a stunner. As the ball went over his head, Thakur jumped to take the catch, completed it with both hands and then started to lose balance. Somehow he managed to think smartly and adjusted his weight as he landed on the ground, turning around in the process to see how close he was to the boundary marker and then skipped himself back into safety to ensure the catch was taken cleanly. It was that moment of brilliance that gave India their second breakthrough. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Bowling the fifth, seventh, ninth and eleventh overs of the Bangladesh innings, the legspinner Chahal set them back irrevocably with another sustained spell of T20 brilliance. Having tamed South African's batsmen in the recent limited-overs tour, Bangladesh's trigger-happy batsmen were no challenge for Chahal, who stuck to the skills which saw him finish as the highest wicket-taker in 2017. He slowed his pace, varied his length and induced rash shots from Tamim, Soumya Sarkar and Mushfiqur Rahman 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Each batsman fell to aggression shots across the line against tempting legspin, and each wicket had Chahal's stamp on it: the superb ability to know just where to land the ball to bring about a rash shot. With figures of 3/18 in four consecutive overs, Chahal had left his imprint on the final. 
 
 
 
 
 At 145/6 after 18 overs, and with Sabbir Rahman batting well on 75 off 48 balls, Bangladesh could have envisioned a total of in the vicinity of 175. Instead, Jaydev Unadkat dismissed Sabbir and   while conceding just three runs. In a superb 19th over, Unadkat bowled Sabbir with a cleverly disguised slower ball and then repeated the dosage first ball to Rubel, who slogged and missed completely. Bangladesh went on to get 166 with Shardul conceding 18 in the last over, but had Unadkat not prized out the dangerous and well-set Sabbir when he did, that total could have been a lot bigger. 
 
 
 
 
 Two quick wickets dented India's chase, with  's dismissal for 0 setting India back to 32/2. But   did not let it set him back, and set the tone for a counter-punch by lofting Nazmul Islam for four and six off successive deliveries to speed to 32 from 16 balls. In the following over, Rohit unfurled a perfect late cut for four more off Mustafizur Rahman. This brief period did not allow Bangladesh to close in after two big wickets, which in the final outcome proved massive. 
 
 
 
 
 Normally, a wicket-maiden 18th over when you are defending 166 will take you over the line in T20Is. With India needing 35 from 18 balls, Mustafizur delivered a sensational over in which the rookie Vijay Shankar - promoted ahead of Karthik for his first international innings - facing five balls and Manish Pandey falling off the sixth. 
 
 But in five balls from Rubel Hossain, Karthik changed the entire situation on its head. The first ball, a low full toss, was swung over long-on for six; the second was heaved wide of midwicket for four; the third was slipped over square leg for six; the fourth was a dot ball; the fifth driven to long-off for two; and the final ball of the over was lap-swept for four, meaning that 22 had come from it - and all to the new batsman. That left India to get 12 from the last over. 
 
 It proved to be a heart-stopper. The first ball was wide, the second a dot, the third and fourth singles, and the fourth steered by Shankar between point and short third man for four. But on the fifth, Shankar's attempt to clear the boundary saw him superbly taken at long-off, which meant that India needed 5 off the last ball. What ensued was the shot of Karthik's career. A pitched up wide delivery was driven superbly over extra cover for a flat six, and India's bench was cleared in one swift move. 
 
