JAIPUR: Curfew was imposed in   district on Tuesday after houses of BJP   Rajkumari Jatav and former   Bharosi Lal Jatav were set on fire allegedly by upper caste persons to avenge the violence committed during   observed by Dalit organisations a day earlier. Since nobody was present at either of the houses, no loss of life was reported. Police arrested 40 people for the arson on Tuesday.

 More than 3,000 people, mainly local traders, attacked and set on fire the house of   MLA from Hindaun City, said police. Similarly, the house of   Jatav, a former minister, was set on fire, said police. Paramilitary forces, along with extra companies of Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) and Special Task Force (STF), were sent to the violence-hit areas.
 
 
 “We have sent some central paramilitary forces to Hindaun. Our men are on the job of identifying the miscreants and lodging FIRs under separate sections of IPC relating to damage of public property, rioting, arson and other crimes,” O P Galhotra, director general of police, told TOI.
 
 In the morning, a large number of locals mobilized and started protesting against alleged eve-teasing and molestation of many women by the protesters during the Monday violence.
 
 ‘Police had to use force to disperse mob’
 
  “Initially, when they gathered and started creating a ruckus, the police used force and even opened fire to disperse them at 10 am,” NRK Reddy, additional director general (law and order), told TOI.
 
 However, when the mob was scattered, many people entered the house of local MLA Rajkumari Jatav situated in  , a posh area in Hindaun City. The miscreants set her house on fire. Another group of mob set a portion of former MLA Bharosi Lal’s house on fire.
 
 “No loss of life was reported. We are yet to receive an FIR from the MLA and the ex-MLA,” Reddy said.
 
 “We have arrested 40 people for arson, rioting and disturbing peace,” said  , superintendent of police, Karauli. People on Tuesday were shouting slogans against the police and administration. They accused policemen of remaining mute spectators when their shops were robbed and women were teased by protesters during ‘Bharat Bandh’.
 
