MUMBAI: Given their ordinary track record against  , Sunrisers Hyderabad needed to pull off something really special in   2018’s Qualifier 1 at the Wankhede Stadium on Tuesday evening. The stakes were high as the winner of the contest was going to make it to the final of the tournament to be played at the same venue on Sunday.

 
 
 
 To complicate matters, Kane Williamson lost the toss and his men managed to put up a modest 139/7, thanks largely to a rearguard action by West Indian Carlos Brathwaite (43, 29b, 1x4, 4x6). At this stage, SRH looked like heading into Qualifier 2, scheduled to take place in Kolkata on Friday, where they would meet the winner of the Eliminator.
 
 
 
 Nevertheless, the 2016 champions took heart from the fact that they have defended some small totals this season. And when they reduced CSK to 39-4 in the eighth over, with opener Shane Watson (0), Suresh Raina (22 runs), the in-form Ambati Rayudu (0), and skipper MS Dhoni (9 runs) back in the dugout, the prospect of another memorable win looked bright.
 
 They had things well and truly in control when CSK were struggling at 113-8 with only 13 balls remaining. Nevertheless, CSK had the redoubtable South African   still battling on and in the end it was the experienced batsman (67, 42b, 5x4, 6x4) who guided his team to a two-wicket win with a six off the first ball of the 20th over. It was undoubtedly one of his best IPL knocks.
 
 Rashid Khan was once again the standout bowler for SRH with figures of 4-0-11-2. He took the crucial wickets of Dhoni and Dwayne Bravo.
 
 Earlier, SRH got off to the worst possible start, losing in-form opener Shikhar Dhawan off the first ball of the match, bowled by pacer Deepak Chahar. Dhawan attempted a square-cut off a short-pitched delivery that swung in slightly, and he ended up chopping it onto the stumps.
 
 Williamson, who has enjoyed a terrific tournament amassing more than 600 runs, tried to repair the innings in the company of the other opener Goswami and the duo put on 34 runs before Goswami fell to fast bowler Lungi Ngidi. SRH found themselves in deep trouble when Williamson (24) was dismissed by local boy Shardul Thakur.
 
