GOLD COAST: After landing here with hardly any training and without a proper coach, doctor or masseur, the Indian Paralympic athletes continued their brave show at the   with   defying the odds and winning bronze in the men’s heavyweight powerlifting on Tuesday.

 
 
 
 With no escorts being provided by Indian officials, the para-athletes are making use of the services provided by local volunteers who get them everything - from a coffee to a face towel - and help them move around. But the volunteers, elderly people, can’t help them to get into a vehicle and that is being done by JP Singh who is here as the team coach.
 
 
 
 “I’m extremely happy to win a medal for the country. This will go a long way in helping our athletes to get more support. All we need is some more consideration as we are ready to put all the hard work,” said Chaudhary, who is part of the TOP scheme.
 
 Lying down with his lower body tied to the bench, the Indian did the bench press at 201 kg but failed twice. India lodged a protest after the referees called no lift for the second time. Thereafter, he won a 2-1 decision on his third attempt, and leapt in joy.
 
 A 2012 Olympian, Chaudhary had opened a gymnasium - ‘Olympian Gym’ - in Meerut, but had to shut it down later. “Because, I’m in the TOP scheme I’m surviving. Otherwise, I have no job. I get some help from GoSports,” the BA graduate said.
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, those who missed out on a medal earlier in the day were frustrated at the lack of support. “If I had got a little more support, I could have won a medal,” Ashok Kumar, who found it hard to control his tears, said.
 
 “We are here after training for just 12-14 days. We have a project officer in SAI, New Delhi but he gives us training time in Bengaluru whenever he feels like and that too after much persuasion. So, without his permission we used to remain idle at home,” Farman Basha, a four-time Olympian, who also doubles up as the coach, told TOI.
 
 Competing in the para powerlifting men’s light-weight category, Basha came fifth with a total of 169.4 points, after lifting 140kg on his second attempt. Haryana lad Ashok, however, came a cropper as he finished last after failing at 160 kg twice. His third attempt was set at 171kg but he failed in that too.
 
 “They should have given us a training camp for at least six months. We got entries based on the IPC ranking and there was no selection by the  . Ashok had lifted 172 kg in Mexico six months back and today he failed without any proper support,” the veteran added.
 
 The athletes also said there is no proper coach for them. “The coach who has come with us is JP Singh,” they said. Asked about his qualification for the job, Singh admitted that he is not a qualified coach but claimed that he knows his job. “I’ve been a shot putter during my playing days and represented India at an Asian track & field competition. During training, we used to bench press weights and that’s the same what these players do.”
 
 
 
 The para table tennis players have sought the help of players and trainers of other contingents to help them train. “Whom will they train with if they don’t have a coach,” a player said.
 
