By- 
 

 Not all Class XII students could concentrate solely on the CBSE board exams. Bogged down by medical conditions, many found it difficult to prepare. But they chose to overcome the pain, relying on their indomitable spirit to score 90% and above. For them, it certainly was mind over matter.
 
 
 
 
 Delhi Public school, Chandigarh Problem | Diabetes, Epilepsy, Thyroid
 
 Naumika Khanna, who is suffering from multiple health issues, scored 95.4% in Humanities. She was suffering from diabetes and thyroid when she was diagnosed with epilepsy at the age of 15. That marked the end of her dream of taking up the medical stream. Her parents persuaded her to take up humanities instead.
 
 In September, the determined go-getter suffered 27 epileptic attacks.
 
 Things took a turn for the worse in October, when she was diagnosed with dengue fever. As the various diseases weakened her immunity, her parents gave up all hope of a spectacular academic performance.
 
 Her mother, Ruchi Khanna said, “Seeing her undergo such troubles, we completely gave up on her and decided not to pressurise her or heighten her expectations. We even asked her not to take the exams. But despite all odds, she managed to score well.” Her father Manu Khanna acknowledges both her physical frailty and iron will. “She has always been a very determined and honest child. Despite all problems, she never took short-cuts. Naumika aims to do clinical psychology for the well-being of society.
 
 
 
 
 Delhi Public school, Chandigarh Problem | Cancer
 
 Aditi Goel, a cancer survivor, got 90.2% marks in Humanities. Aditi, who does not have a mother, has a close bond with her father, who she attributes her success to. She was diagnosed with Cancer in 2013 and had to undergo chemotherapy in the US but managed a perfect 10 CGPA in classes IX and X. Besides her academic brilliance, Aditi is also a passionate dancer.
 
 She started taking Kathak lessons in Class II. At present, she uploads her dance videos and choreographies on a   channel and has 50,000 viewers.
 
 Her chess games with her father culminated in participation in Chess championships. “I play chess with my father every night. It’s more like an everyday ritual now, that’s how I developed interest in the game,” she said, adding that her father is a pillar of strength and rekindles her spirits whenever she breaks down.
 
 She said her father’s occupation as a lawyer helped her develop an interest in legal studies, which she aims to pursue at   in Virginia, USA. She also acknowledged the support provided by her school staff in easing the preparation. She said she was always attentive in class.
 
 
 
 
 Guru Nanak Public School, Sector 36, Chandigarh Problem | Learning disability
 
 A sincere and hardworking student, Manpreet is keen on learning different things.
 
 He is a good singer and has participated in many singing and shabad gayan competitions. All in all, it is hard to believe he was diagnosed with special learning disability.
 
 
 
 
 Shishu Niketan School in Sec 22 Problem | Brain tumor
 
 Marks 91.6% Tushar, a student of Shishu Niketan Model Senior Secondary School School, Sector- 22D, Chandigarh set an example of courage, proving that nothing is impossible for someone who is determined. Tushar, a commerce student scored 91.6% in the boards. Shortly before this, he was told he has a clot in the brain. It taught him how to pick up the pieces and march ahead.
 
