PANAJI: After two years of technology-assisted paper corrections, the Goa   of Secondary and Higher Secondary   has reverted to manual methods. The reason — the state’s poor   connectivity, and the high costs involved.

 
 “The Live Ink Character Recognition Technology is an internet-based system and as the internet connectivity is poor in the state, it was not working as efficiently as expected,” said Goa Board chairperson Ramkrishna Samant. “The uploading of the matter online was taking time and was uncertain due to the connectivity issues. Its implementation also came at a huge cost of around Rs 1 crore, which we felt was too high.” 
 
 This year, around 35,000 students appeared for the Class X and XII exams this year. The board had decided to go for computerised tabulation of results as the number of students appearing for the exams has been on the rise in recent years. But, after Goa Board encountered several problems in paper corrections through computer-assisted methods, it has reverted to the manual method it used up till 2015.
 
 The Board introduced Live Ink Character Recognition Technology for tabulation of the Class X and XII public exam results in 2017. In that system, teachers carry out paper corrections manually. The marks allotted by teachers are fed into the system through character recognition, and the tabulation of the results takes place electronically. This method was introduced as an improvement over the computer-assisted paper corrections implemented by the board for the first time at the 2016 Class X and XII examinations.
 
 In the 2016 system, the answer sheets were scanned and converted into units that were evaluated digitally. The system alerts a teacher if any unit goes unevaluated, and all the marks allotted in an answer sheet were automatically added up by this system. But this computer-assisted paper corrections system was found ineffective due to many teachers being ill-equipped in the use of computers.
 
 To introduce a system which is even more refined, the Live Ink Character Recognition Technology was introduced. This was found to provide better accuracy and reduce any possibility of tampering with results and was seen as solution for the future, in view of the rising numbers appearing for the Class X and XII exams.
 
