On his first visit here after quitting NDA, TDP chief and   chief minister   hinted that his party would have no truck with BJP in the 2019 parliamentary polls. Naidu, who has come armed with power-point presentations and video-clippings of the PM's speeches as evidence, told TOI's Mohua Chatterjee that the Centre had betrayed the state and was now diverting attention by maligning him. Excerpts: 

  
 
  I am fighting for my state.   did injustice by bifurcating the state. Andhra faced humiliation, because of which we went for an alliance with BJP. In four years, I have visited Delhi 29 times, represented everything to everybody... still the Centre has been delaying things ... I waited till the last budget. Assurances to follow up the Bifurcation Act was given on the floor of the House. PM Modi had four years to deliver, they did not do it. 
 
  
 
  I get the feeling they will try to create more problems for the state. 
 
  
 
  They (BJP) are trying to suppress the real reasons...Why is BJP working with other allies while being in alliance with TDP? How can you shield them (YSRCP), only because they are vulnerable? That is how this party works. So, a nine-page letter to malign me, my party and my state, when they (Centre) are the ones who did not deliver. I have done everything ethically. I told the PM, then withdrew... called him, he did not take the call, called back next day, then said he will look into it and never got back. Doors were closed by Arun Jaitley when the finance minister announced there will be no special status. 
 
  
 
  I am here to ask for justice for Andhra. It is the responsibility of all parties which passed the Bifurcation Act to review what they delivered. All parties, even Congress, gave assurances five years back. It is a national obligation for all of them. All parties I spoke to supported us, only the government is playing politics and avoiding the real issue. 
 
  
 
  I am the CM today. Last time also, YSR Congress was there but people stood behind me because of my earlier track record. BJP has nothing in Andhra. The present government at the Centre feels YRS Congress is supporting them as it went with them for the presidential and vice presidential elections. 
 
  
 
  I am seeking assurances on genuine grounds from the Centre. What is the credibility of a leader? Now people in Andhra think the Centre is cheating them. It is not good. Politics and development are interlinked. I am fighting for Andhra's case now. Before it is settled, I cannot speak about it (joining the opposition camp). Also, I need to convince political parties and the media about the injustice they (Centre) have done. Even NDA partners are concerned. 
 
  
 
  Th e PM had said Amravati will have to be built even better than Delhi and then Centre gave us Rs 1,500 crore for it. The PM even told me to look at Astana (capital of Kazakhstan)... The PM would have got a good name. They wanted to create a dream capital, now they are dreaming. I created Secunderabad. In 2005, PM Manmohan Singh claimed credit for it in the US because he felt proud of it. For 4 years, we gave highest growth (10.5 %) in the country even with our constraints. 
 
  
 
  Development and welfare. We are No. 1 despite all these problems but our base is very low because of bifurcation. In South India, it is the lowest. Why should Andhra Pradesh be penalised? 
 
 
