BENGALURU: Starting their Sunday on an atypical note, 200 people got together in   to mark International Bicycle Day. Their aim was to spread awareness on health and environment conservation among Bengalureans.

 
 Not just children, enthusiastic adults of all ages rode cycles, encouraging others to take up the green-friendly mode of transport.
 
 Hosted by HSR Cycling Club along with icycle.in, an urban cycling startup, the event sought to popularise the benefits of cycling among amateurs wanting to take it up more seriously.
 
 “It was encouraging to see almost 50% of the participants turn up with their own cycles. The others chose bicycles kept at the venue. We were pleased to see children; the youngest being a five-year-old,” said Manjesh Chandrashekaran, managing director of icycle.in
 
 To encourage more people to take up cycling, Venkatesh Shivrama, who popularised high-end biking in the city, Meera Velankar, one of the foremost female cyclists, and Rishabh Gowda, a 16-year-old who is one of the top downhill racers in the country, elaborated on their passions during the event.
 
 Akhil Puranik, a 25-year-old engineer and ardent cyclist, said he has been cycling to work for the last two years. “I cycle nearly 6km daily. On weekends, I head to   or Hesaraghatta Lake. I feel like inspiring people to take up cycling for their health. I own a two-wheeler, but I don’t use it after seeing the economic, environmental and health benefits of cycling,” said the resident of Devinagar.
 
 
 
 
 While traversing the 6km route charted out for them, cyclists had to account for potholes obstructing their paths. From the service road adjoining HSR Layout flyover, novice cyclists including several kids, had to take extra care.
 
 Manjula V Babaladi, a regular cyclist, said road safety is especially important for cyclists. “Other commuters on the road see us as an obstruction. Lack of quality roads, designated lanes and proper awareness about traffic rules can put us at risk. Lack of safety is one of the reasons why many people hesitate to cycle. If it has to be made a priority, then there should be proper infrastructure,” said the Bannerghata Road resident.
 
 
