MUMBAI:  , which is in the middle of a controversy about suspected diversion of Rs 500 crore by its promoters, has asked the stock exchanges for a two-week extension till February 28 to announce its Q2 and Q3 results for the current financial year. 

 In a related development, credit ratings agency   on Monday downgraded debt papers of Fortis Healthcare, aggregating Rs 1,170 crore, by two notches to A- (A minus) from A+ (A plus) earlier. 
 
 A notice on the   said that Fortis Healthcare has informed it regarding “seeking extension for approval of financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2017. In the normal course of business, the company should have announced its Q2 results by November 30.
 
 For all listed companies, the rule is to file quarterly results within two months from the end of the previous quarter. Under exceptional circumstances, a company can seek special permission from the stock exchanges where it is listed to delay the announcement of quarterly results. The stock exchanges on their part ask companies for an explanation if a company fails to announce results for three consecutive quarters. After that, the bourses could also take penal action against the erring company.
 
 On Friday, an international media report said Fortis Healthcare founders   and   Singh had siphoned off Rs 500 crore from the company. A day before, the Singh brothers had informed the Fortis board of their decision to quit, strengthening speculation for months of possible financial irregularities. Also, there were reports that Deloitte, the auditors for Fortis, had refused to sign the quarterly results which had forced the Singh brothers to step down from the board of the company they had established about two decades ago. There were also talks that Deloitte had resigned from being the company’s auditors. Both of these talks were denied by Fortis while Deloitte declined to comment because of confidentiality agreement. 
 
 On Monday, ratings major ICRA downgraded an NCD offering from Fortis for Rs 250 crore, along with a Rs 600-crore commercial paper programme, Rs 105-crore fund-based limit, a Rs 195-crore term loan and a Rs 20-crore non-fund-based limits. The ratings downgrade was due to a “recent disclosure by Fortis Healthcare indicating that considerable funds were transferred to third parties, which were later classified as promoter entities and the current outstanding amount towards such entities is Rs 473 crore,” a release from ICRA said.
 
 On Monday, Fortis shares on BSE closed 6% lower at Rs 139.
 
 
