By Jitender Dabas

 Last week, the IIT-JEE and the UPSC civil services results came out. Naturally, the toppers — respectively, Suraj Krishna, 17, and Anudeep Durishetty, 27 — made headlines. But last month, the headlines were dominated by two even younger kids — 15-year-old   and 16-year-old   — who won shooting golds at the 2018 Commonwealth Games at Gold Coast in Australia. Then, there was Neeraj Chopra, 20, who became the first ever Indian athlete to win a javelin gold.
 
 Anish is yet to appear in his Class X exam while Manu is in Class XI. Anish’s father gave up his law practice in Karnal and moved to Delhi to focus on his son’s shooting, while Manu is the daughter of a merchant navy engineer dad and a school principal mom.
 
 It wasn’t only the emergence of youngsters eager to be world beaters that’s heartening, but the emergence of committed middle-class parents willing to back their children’s talents. This signals something much bigger — that India could be on its way to becoming a sporting nation.
 
 So, are these the first signs of the advent of a true sporting culture in the country? Not only do we now have international champions in shooting, badminton, table tennis, boxing, wrestling, archery, golf and athletics, but in a society where games were once seen as a waste of time, it seems we have begun to embrace sport as a meaningful, reputable pursuit.
 
 The shift is being driven by a very visible economic and cultural transformation. At one end is the commerce of it. The business of sport has made playing a sport a respectable way of earning a good living. Thanks to professional leagues in cricket, kabaddi, badminton, football and boxing, among others, good money can be earned through a career in sport. So, traditionally, if knowledge (read studies) provided the escape velocity to propel people upward and provide them jobs and a better life, sport has filled that space today.
 
 Bollywood has helped too, coming out with more biopics in the last 10 years than it ever did, from ‘Chak De! India’, ‘Dangal’ and ‘Bhaag Milkha Bhaag’ to ‘Mary Kom’ and ‘MS Dhoni: The Untold Story’ (movies on Saina Nehwal and Dhyan Chand are in the pipeline). Popular culture is celebrating sport like never before, and in the process inspiring the next set of heroes.
 
 But there’s something more to our recent embrace of  .
 
 As a culture, we have grown up with ‘padhai-likhai’ being superior to ‘khel-kood’. Such an attitude was rooted in something deeper — our Brahminical belief system that placed knowledge higher than physical valour, and elevated learning and wisdom over predominantly Kshatriya pursuits (like sports).
 
 Sport, by and large, was not connected with pursuit of knowledge, and so was never given similar status, even though we admired our sporting heroes. Cricket prospered because it was the game of the rulers, patronised by the maharajas and the privileged.
 
 But sports now have their own Brahminical codes. For instance, playing a sport meant being physically agile and not necessarily mentally alert. However, the rise of disciplines like shooting challenges such stereotyping and categorisation. Even the codes and rituals of training are becoming similar to those of studying. Coaches armed with laptops are the new professors, and travelling for training is the new ‘going abroad to study’.
 
 And where earlier it was assumed that being good at sports was inversely proportional to being good at academics (hence the popular ‘sports quota’ admissions), we soon found, in the likes of Rahul Dravid and Anil Kumble, the good student archetypes who were successful sporting icons. Over time, Milkha Singh and P T Usha gave way to Col. Rajyavardhan Rathore and Abhinav Bindra, as India’s flagbearers of sporting success at the Olympics.
 
 The stories of teenagers Anish and Manu, then, are more than just about sporting success. They indicate a recalibration of sport in our culture and our psyche.
 
 When we were growing up, one line defined society’s mindset on sports: ‘Padhoge likhoge banoge nawab, kheloge koodoge ho jaoge kharaab’. It’s time to find a new axiom.
 
 
 
 
 
