TRICHY: As schools reopened for the new academic year on Friday,   City Corporation ( ) launched a novel initiative aimed at inculcating the best solid waste management practice into students. 

 
 The civic body, in coordination with school managements, will grade households having school-going children based on the support they lend to the solid waste management (SWM) scheme titled ‘Students@clean Trichy’.
 
 It will assess their involvement and honour three best students from 350 schools, considering among others, aspects like how well they are at segregating waste at source and whether they keep separate bins for biodegradable and non-biodegradable wastes.
 
 Inaugurating the initiative on Friday, district collector   said, “Trichy has already set a benchmark for cleanliness among all other civic bodies. Now, it is the duty of students, parents, as well as teachers to show their support for the new initiative to sustain the same.”
 
 With three-fourth of city’s households having school-going children, TCC, along with 350 schools including private and government institutions, will distribute ‘green report cards’ to students throughout June through respective school managements.
 
 The report cards will have residential address, ward number, contact number and two questions for them students answer. The questions will seek answers for whether segregation of waste at source is in place and whether waste collection is being carried out everyday.
 
 The grading process involving acknowledgements from parents and sanitary officials in the report card will be carried out throughout July 2018. Following this, the students will have to hand over the report cards to school managements.
 
 “Role of students is to insist on their parents to segregate waste at source in households. Such activities will encourage students to cultivate cleanliness for future,” said chief educational officer  .
 
 The school managements should select students based on the merit green report cards and by a draw of a lot by August 2018. The names of three students who were actively involved in the initiative will be sent on August 6 to the corporation office.
 
 
