Guntur: Chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu will lay   stone for several big-ticket projects, which will give a big push to the development of the backward Palnadu region, in   on Saturday. 

 Naidu will lay foundation stone for an engineering college, owned by the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University of Kakinada, at Kakani village on the outskirts of Narasaraopet town. He will then travel to Kotappakonda hill shrine, where he will kick-start the works for a ropeway to the temple. 
 
 The ropeway is a dream project of assembly speaker Kodela Sivaprasada Rao. Although, Rao is representing Sattenapalle constituency in the assembly, he has been monitoring the developmental works in Narasaraopet assembly segment, which he represented for five consecutive terms in the undivided state of AP. 
 
 In fact, the speaker wanted the   to visit the hill shrine on Maha Shivarathi day to launch the developmental works. However, Naidu did not visit the temple to avoid causing trouble to common pilgrims. The CM agreed to visit Narasaraopet and Kotappakonda on Saturday.
 
 Meanwhile, the district administration is making elaborate arrangements for the CM’s visit. District in-charge collector Munga Venkateswara Rao and rural district superintendent of police Ch Venkata Appala Naidu visited all the places of CM’s tour, and inspected the arrangements. 
 
 Two helipads are being constructed to facilitate the CM’s arrival and departure. “The CM will participate in foundation laying and inauguration of several developmental works in the city during his day-long visit,” said Munga Venkaeswara Rao. He said the CM will lay foundation for high-level bridge at Gollapadu village, and address a public meeting at the proposed JNTUK engineering college premises. 
 
 He asked officials to take all measures to avoid inconvenience to students, who would attend the CM’s public meeting. Naidu will also inaugurate the newly constructed road to Petlurivaripalem village near Kotappakonda. JNTUK engineering college principal KVSG Murali, DSP Nageswara Rao, RDO Ravinder were also present during the inspection.
 
 
