PATNA: The state industries department has decided to set up a khadi school at Manpur in  .

 “We are thinking of starting a batch consisting 100 students from July or August this year. The minimum qualification required for admission will be either 10th or 12th certificate. The students will be trained as trainers and will be used as foot soldiers to promote khadi,” industries department principal secretary S Siddharth said.
 
 Meanwhile, industries minister Jai Kumar Singh on Wednesday flagged off a marketing support mobile van that would run in the secretariat area between different government department buildings promoting and selling khadi products.
 
 The department is also working on constituting ‘Bihar Khadi Niti’ to promote the sale of khadi in the state. A sale target of Rs35 crore has been set for the next three years. The policy would work towards thread and khadi fabric production, the sale of khadi and provide fixed and technical assistance to khadi societies. 
 
 The department has planned to set up Bihar Khadi Management Information System to promote e-marketing of khadi. Producers would be given 20% grant of the total production cost. A bank would also be constructed for silk, cocoon and wool. The quality of khadi would be tested by a national-level organization.
 
 For the availability of better quality products, design and production centres would also be set up. The department has decided to provide 90% grant to the weavers for modern spindle and looms. The department has also roped in Jeevika workers, who would be segregated into producer groups and taught thread-making.
 
 The department has also roped in an advisory company, Grant Thornton India LLP (Gurgaon), which on behalf of the department has tied up with private garment brands to utilize these weavers as outsourced manufacturers. The raw material for the weavers would be procured by the department from the open market for the same.
 
 Khadi showroom to get bigger: The old showroom of Khadi Bhawan in Patna is being renovated for which funds to the tune of Rs7.40 crore has been approved. The new showroom will be thrice the size of the old showroom with different sections for cotton, silk and woollen cloths as well as a separate section for village industries products. 
 
 Khadi soaps: The industries department has decided to provide Rs8 lakh to the khadi societies to set up plants to produce soaps. Twenty-five trainees from eight khadi societies have been sent to Mumbai to receive a monthlong training in soap manufacturing. 
 
 
