The FDCI-presented fashion week began in Delhi with designers turning to the dramatic hues of autumn.

 
 
 The Fall 2018 collection by Shyamal & Bhumika was a blend of craft and colour. The intricately crafted collection consists of silk skirts with aesthetically interlaced botanical floral motifs, statement dresses in soft velvets with multi colored sequins and bugle beads, and magnificent saris in flowing organza. From deep wine to dark shades of green, twilight blue to seductive black, the colours induced mystery.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Black and white with a streak of silver- that would be the apt description of the show put together by designers Ashish N Soni and sister duo Gauri and Nainika Karan. While Ashish’s expertise in suits and tailoring was reflected in sharp and structured jackets in textured fabrics, Gauri and Nainika’s love for ruffles and frills was well displayed in voluminous gowns and dresses with floral cutwork. It was a perfect red carpet collection with some classy and edgy designs. “It was really interesting to work together and it was Ashish’s idea that we should work together for this show,” said Nainika. Actress Vani Kapoor was the showstopper. The actress has walked the ramp at many fashion events in the past and after this show she was happy to announce that “Ashish has gifted me what I am wearing. I absolutely love this.”
 
 
 
 
 
 Inspired by the streets of Delhi, the designer duo, David Abraham & Rakesh Thakore presented a trans-seasonal collection which had the classic salwar-kameez and ghagra reinvented with richly patterned floral fabrics.The colour palette ranged from soft khakis and creams to shades of coral and olive green juxtaposed with black and white.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Samant Chauhan opened the fashion week with an ode to the absence of colour, reimagining a world with flashes of colour in memory – an attempt to look beyond the rainbow and to gaze deep into the black hole. It is a homage to absence, which endures despite love and other fleeting happiness.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Colourful hues, quirky prints and asymmetric hems were seen in Anupama Dayal's collection that ranged from dreamy white to brighter hues.
 Bridging the gap between classic influences and modern forms, the collection was inspired by the 1950’s look, worn by the iconic Sophia Loren, Audrey Hepburn and Fiona Campbell. The ensembles epitomized the grace of the 1950s, creating an aura of glamour, femininity and mystery. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Bridging the gap between classic influences and modern forms, the collection was inspired by the 1950’s look, worn by the iconic Sophia Loren, Audrey Hepburn and Fiona Campbell.The ensembles epitomized the grace of the 1950s, creating an aura of glamour, femininity and mystery. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 --– With inputs from Divya.Kaushik@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
