Nagpur: CMO   held their annual awards ceremony to recognize the outstanding efforts of ‘unsung heroes of the region’ in the field of social, education, handicapped sports, health and journalism. The function was held at Sarvodaya Ashram, near Bole Petrol Pump, on Monday. NCP leader Shivajirao Moghe, social workers Ravindra Kolhe and MM Gadkari were the guests of the function. 

 Kolhe believed that the programme strongly promotes humanity. He said, “In today’s time where even a small noble deed is rare, there are people who are extending a helping hand to others without any expectation. They are indeed setting an example for the next generation.”
 
 “The youths should come together, recall the ideologies of Gandhi and other great men and follow their footsteps to bring in reforms,” said Gadkari, adding, “The awards encourage the social workers to continue their gestures filled with compassion.”
 
 Deeply influenced by Baba Amte, Shriram Panhekar from Chandrapur was felicitated for his contribution in empowering the disabled persons. Speaking to TOI, he said, “Such people are often dependent on others for their official work and so we helped them get disability certificates so that they take benefits that government has granted them. We also established an information centre in the hinterlands to guide them in legal matters and set up blood donation and health check-up camps.” 
 
 Sushila Bijamwar, DB Bankar received the ‘Excellence in Social Service Award’ and ‘Ideal Professor Award’ respectively. Ganesh Khawse was given ‘Rural Journalism Award’, while Dr Ashok Dhabekar was bestowed with ‘Heath Services Award’.
 
 Director-counsellor of the organization, Sharmistha Gupta informed that the hunt for these dedicated people fit for the award is a rigorous process which is carried out throughout the year. Efforts of people working hard in silence, even in remote areas are appreciated and acknowledged.
 
 General secretary Atul Kotecha said, “We have to scrutinize the nominees carefully so that the award is handed over to genuine people and the true motto is fulfilled.”
 
 ends
 
 
