CHENNAI: Back in 2015 when   (CFC) won their first title,   was just a bystander in the club’s celebrations. Having sustained an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury on the right knee, the 26-year-old missed the entire season and was so distraught that he didn’t even click a photo with the trophy. To make matters worse, the then   coach Marco Materazzi didn’t field the defensive midfielder in any matches last season even though he was completely fit.

 
 Things didn’t look too bright either this season as he wasn’t part of the first match, which Chennaiyin lost to FC Goa. It was then that coach John Gregory realised that he needed a blocker in midfield and employed Ganesh for the role in CFC’s second match. The Chennai-lad seized the opportunity with both hands and went on to play a key role in Chennaiyin’s title triumph. Such assertive and fierce have been his performances that Gregory didn’t substitute him in the rest of the tournament.
 
 Ganesh said that it was the fear of losing his place again which made him play fearlessly. “I was not part of the coach’s plans during pre-season. So I knew I had to prove myself in the first chance I get. My job was to play aggressively and tackle hard in order to get the ball back. I needed to play tough football. I was aware that only if I tackle well, I will be there in the team for the next match! So I approached every game as my last one,” Ganesh said at a ‘meet n greet’ session conducted by CFC’s associate sponsor Nippon Paint on Wednesday.
 
 The event saw Nippon Paint president Mahesh S Anand felicitating players like Ganesh, Francis Fernandes, Bedashwor Singh and  . “After winning the title, the first thing which I did was click a photo with the trophy. It was a much-awaited dream of mine,” Ganesh added.
 
 The holding medio credited Gregory for his success. “Gregory’s techniques were simple but effective. He always encouraged me. The best quality is that he treats all players equally and gives them time to rest and recover after a match. In fact, it is only the reserves who practise after match day. This idea of rotating players worked well for us. He also inculcated the never-say-die attitude in us and it helped in winning a few close matches,” Ganesh said.
 
 Ganesh’s confidence grew with every match. It helped him go on the offensive towards the latter half of the tournament as he scored two vital goals for his team from set-pieces. “Defenders Mailson Alves, Henrique Sereno, Inigo Calderon and I had strong built. With Gregory Nelson’s delivery being top notch, our coach thought of using our physique to our advantage and we started planning our set-pieces properly. In the end, things fell in place and I scored two goals,” said Ganesh.
 
 After proving a point in  , Ganesh is now looking to make a mark for the national team. It was while playing for India in 2015 that he got injured and since then he is yet to get a start. “While I was out injured, the players had performed well and we broke into top-100 rankings. So it’s not easy getting into the Indian team again. But (national) coach Stephen Constantine has shown faith in me. I’m waiting for my chance to prove myself again,” Ganesh said.
 
