PALANPUR: A government primary school in  , a nondescript village 27 km from  , sports an unusually swanky look. It has all facilities including digital teaching, something rarely seen in government-run schools.

 All this is thanks to 17 non-resident Gujaratis ( ) from this small village who are sparing one dollar a day as contribution to the school’s development. Fifteen settled in the US and two in   donate the amount in bulk and transfer it in the school’s account every year. 
 
 “We started getting $365 ever year, which has increased to not less than $500,” said Bechar Patel, convener of the school and a national award winning teacher.
 
 Amrut Patel, an engineer settled in Cleveland, Ohio, told TOI, “I was born and brought up here. I have played in the fields of this village. It was in 2016 when I came in contact with Pramukh Swami Maharaj that I decided to do something for betterment of people of Ganget. We collectively decided to keep aside one dollar a day aside that would be donated for improving education infrastructure and students’ welfare.”
 
 “After getting blessings of Pramukh Swami Maharaj, I contacted 16 other NRGs of Ganget village living in the US and Canada. They all readily agreed to spare one dollar a day,” said Amrut Patel.
 
 The NRGs then got together and formed an association named “NR Sons of Ganget’ to work with the slogan “Ame Tamara, Tame Amara. (We are for you and your are our own) for their native village which has a population of just around 2,500.
 
 The continuous flow of financial help has helped   get better infrastructure and ambiance for students. There are well-furnished classrooms with all facilities, digital boards, a rich library, computer laboratory and sports equipment, making it a model school. It is a sprawling two-storey building where nearly 206 students from Ganget and near-by villages study.
 
 Besides providing education, the NRGs have also decided to adopt at least one child who is bright in studies but comes from an extremely poor family or is an orphan.
 
 
