He has not had a minute to mourn his loss and returned to work within hours of seeing his Didi off at the burning ghat. But Kishore Das, also known as Kalu — who has been a shadow to   since the late ’70s — says he would prefer it that way as the vacuum left by the matinee idol can’t be filled in a lifetime. In a freewheeling chat, the makeup artist looks back at the years gone by. Excerpts:

 Your association with Supriya Devi goes back many years…
 
 I first met Didi around 1976-77. I was a staff member of Biswarupa theatre in north Kolkata, where she had come to stage Bimal Mitra’s Kori Diye Kinlam . Directed by Rashbehari Sarkar, this play was going to see her debut on stage. She was a big star; a friend of mine and I were given the responsibility of being with her, give her cues to enter and exit the stage. I don’t know when I unknowingly became her shadow! In 1977, Dilip Roy started Devdas with Uttam Kumar, Sumitra Mukherjee, Soumitra Chatterjee and Benudi (Supriya Devi). She was playing the part of Chandramukhi and had many costume changes. Someone had to keep a note of the continuity; I had no clue, but took upon myself the task of jotting down the details with scene numbers. Her makeup man back then was Bashir Ahmed, while Nitai Sarkar would do Uttamda’s makeup. I soon started assisting Bashirji and realised that makeup was my calling. In no time, I was a regular at her Moira Street home.
 
 Do you remember your first day at Moira Street?
 
 After a stage performance one Sunday night, Didi said, ‘Kal tora bari aye’. Devdas was supposed to go on the floors and we needed to discuss the costumes. I was scared at the thought of going there; I couldn’t sleep all night. Before leaving, Didi added, ‘Dada kintu barite thakbe’. I was thrilled. There was a wooden staircase and I was careful about climbing it without making any noise. At the gate, I found a Saraswati idol and the nameplate bore their names — Uttam Kumar, Supriya Devi.
 
 So, you became a part of her life ?
 
 After doing Devdas, Dui Purush, Iman Kalyan, Kalankini Kankabati with Didi, I became a regular in the film industry. To her, I was a family member. I would accompany her on outdoor shoots and every time I went, she would make special arrangements for me. She would ask me if I had eaten well. She would take food from home and introduced Bangshida as a family member. To her, each of us mattered. After this, we joined One Wall Theatre by Pahari Bhattacharya. She did Saheb Bibi Golaam, Baluchari, Byabhichar, Bhanga Ayna…. Later, she got into jatra with her own company, Apsara Opera. Her first jatra performance was Pashan Pratima, which was a huge hit. She used to love performing live; the thought that 12,000 people were waiting to see her used to amuse her a lot. I used to travel with her to all the districts and her sole requirement was a clean rest room with a Western set-up; she never asked for anything else. Her Moira Street home was a dream; there was not a speck of dirt anywhere and she loved to keep things in order.
 
 You have been part of several celebrations at Moira Street …
 
 On Lakshmi Puja, Didi would cook for 150 people with a few helpers. Dada would carry a towel on his shoulder and serve food to everyone. Their drawing room was around 1,500 sq ft. I have seen Priya Ranjan Dasmunshi, Ajit Panja, Manabendra Mukhopadhyay, Shyamal Mitra, Hemanta Mukherjee, Pijush Bose, Nachiketa Ghosh coming to their home… The immersion procession was equally elaborate. We would travel in a matador, while a private car used to be kept for Dada-Didi. At Babughat, the immersion would take place first. Dada-Didi’s car would be parked at the ghat and on being told, they would come out. Dada would hold Didi’s hand, while she — with a ghot on her head — take three dips in the river. The ghot filled up with Gangajal and they would leave immediately after that.
 
 You have seen both Uttam Kumar and Supriya Devi at the dining table… 
 
 Didi used to keep everything ready — there would be chicken, fish, sweets, fruits. Dada would think of devious means to pull her leg, but failed at the dining table. So every time Didi asked, ‘Bolo konta diye shuru korbe’, he would be at a loss for words. He would taste everything, but in small portions. After his meal, he would savour rosogolla with salt. Didi said dada was not in favour of direct sugar intake. To imitate him, I started having rosogolla with salt and lime juice and it had a unique taste. It was the same the way Didi used to keep his clothes ready. There would be everything from panjabi-pyjama, suit, dhoti, casual shirts. On days, she would keep casual clothes, he would ask for panjabi, on days she kept ethnic wear ready, he would look for his suit. Then, she started keeping everything ready and would break into her signature smile, having beaten Dada at his game. On Didi’s birthday, he would receive guests at the door, Titoda (Dipankar De), Sumitradi (Mukherjee), Subhenduda (Chatterjee), Samit Bhanja and many other artistes were regulars. They would all sing individually and together. On Dada’s birthday, there would be bigger celebrations at both Girish Mukherjee Road and Moira Street, Tarun babu and Subratadi would attend both. I have seen Gouridi (Uttam Kumar’s wife) and their son, Goutamda, coming to Moira Street and later to Loudon Street but Uttamda’s death changed things a lot. I have seen Didi sacrificing a lot for Dada. When he had pox, she nursed him 24x7. She was supposed to do   but had some trivial differences with Dada, after which she fell ill. She was admitted to Metropolitran Nursing Home and couldn’t give dates. Later Sumitradi played the part. They would at times have differences over food. Didi always insisted that he have Moira Street food but many people would bring him exotic dishes. Dada too preferred Benudi’s preparations over anything else.
 
 Do you remember the day Uttam Kumar passed away ?
 
 It was July 24, 1980. I was doing theatre and news came from the thana that he had passed away. The news had not spread and I ran to their Moira Street home. Didi had her teeth clenched and she was lying senseless. She was forcefully fed for the first few days. I have seen five of Dada’s shoots going on simultaneously in five shooting floors and now the producers were heartbroken. After Didi recovered, she got back to theatre. But she was broken from inside.
 
 But she continued working in the post-Uttam Kumar era …
 
 After 1988, Biresh Chatterjee started his film, Kori Diye Kinlam, with a huge cast and Didi was a part of it. Over the next few years, she developed a knee problem. It was a tough phase as she had to give up their Moira Street home. Didi did not have the money to run it on her own; also, she was lonely. She moved into 12 Loudon Street and it was again a new beginning. There she lived for many years. In 1995, she did Janani. It was a runaway hit and after that, she starred in 52 Episode by Rituda ( ). Once this project drew to a close, she didn’t take up any other film/megaserial as a protagonist though she would do cameos here and there. Around seven years back, Didi became wheelchair-bound and the last few years were difficult. She moved into a government apartment on Ballygunge Circular Road and had fallen on hard times. I remember how Didi would carry food with her thrice a week to the sets of Janani and would invite everyone home. The drivers/assistants who would pick her up from home were served a hearty breakfast that no one could polish off at one go. It’s the same lady who became a loner in her later years. Apart from Mamatadi (CM  ), Arup Biswas, Lolita Chatterjee, the Artists Forum members, Rituparna (Sengupta), not many paid her a visit. There were a few others who kept her in their prayers always; one among them was Sabudi (Sabitri Chatterjee).
 
 How was your last meeting with Supriya Devi ?
 
 I met her on her birthday on January
 
 8. It was a little late in the night as I had a shoot and I didn’t see any other guest at that hour. She showed me flowers that Mamatadi had sent; there was a cake on the table and she fed me a piece. In her last years, she was forgetting a lot, so she kept repeating the same questions. Even then, she would enquire after everyone she knew. Then, Taradi, who has been working in her home for the past 35 years, gave her food. When I told her that I had not bought her anything she said, ‘Toder paraye toh golda chingri pawa jaye. Tui katla maachher peti ba bhetki maachher kanta anish’.
 
 
