KOCHI: Kochi witnessed an unusual sight on Friday as a large group of priests in their white habits took to the city streets. They were on their way to the major archbishop’s office from the   to demand that he quit his office and face investigation.

 
 Curious spectators looked on at the unusual spectacle of men in white robes registering a public protest and some youths even booed them while a group of churchgoers-cum-activists, fighting for transparency at the archdiocese, reached the spot in large numbers closing rank behind the priests.
 
 
 The protest has taken place just days after the HC ordered the cops to register an FIR against the head of the   cardinal   over the controversial land deals. Though the priests have expressed their disapproval over the archbishop holding on to his position, it is for the first time they have expressed their dissent in public.
 
 The priests handed over a memorandum to the auxiliary bishop of the archdiocese, with a demand that it be sent to the  .
 
 “As the high court has ordered a probe into the land deals, the cardinal should keep off from all responsibilities of the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese till the police completes their probe,” said Fr Kuriakose Mundadan, who was among the protesting priests.
 
 Meanwhile, posters were seen in the city demanding action against the priests who declared ‘war against the cardinal by violating basic principles of priesthood.’
 
 
 The central police have not yet registered an FIR against the cardinal nor launched a probe into the land deals. They have, however, approached the advocate general’s (AG) office seeking legal advice into filing a case against the church head.
 
 Central circle inspector A Ananthal said the police were planning to register an FIR as early as possible, and that they have sought a legal opinion before pursuing the case. “We have approached the AG seeking his advice,” said Ananthalal.
 
 “The FIR will be registered at the earliest as we have been analyzing the judgment with the help of legal experts in order to get a better idea of how to proceed with the registration of the case,” assistant commissioner of police, Ernakulam K Laljy said.
 
 Besides Alencherry, priests   and Sebastian Vadakkumpadan and middleman Saju Varghese were the others against whom the complaint was lodged.
 
 Earlier, a six-member church committee, which probed the alleged irregularities, said it found numerous instances of violation of canon and civil laws and recommended necessary action against those responsible
 
