LUDHIANA: In its latest drive against  , the excise and taxation department (Punjab) has started a scrutiny of marriage palaces based in Ludhiana and other cities of state, including   and Amritsar. According to departmental sources, action is being taken as several big marriage palace owners are suspected of under-billing of marriage and other functions booked by them.

 Sources have also revealed that GST — to the tune of several crores — is being evaded by businessmen adopting the practice of under-billing. The development comes in the wake of recent surveys by the income tax department on a marriage palace group based in Ludhiana and Jalandhar, in which huge tax evasion was detected by the state taxation.
 
 Excise department teams, led by joint director of investigation   on Friday evening, raided two marriage palaces located on Jalandhar-Ludhiana highway, and unearthed a huge tax evasion nexus being run by them. The teams comprising assistant excise and taxation commissioner BS Bhatti, excise and taxation officers Davinder Pannu, Pawan Kumar, Anjali Kalyan, and   took in their possession several financial records. It was established that these marriage palaces were only showing 10-15% amount of total charges of every function taking place at their venues in their books, and were taking the remaining amount in black.
 
 Giving more information about the raids,   said: “These marriage palaces were on our record for quite some time now, and we have nailed them with full evidence, as before raiding them, we sent a decoy customer, who was offered a bill of only 10-15% of the total expenditure, which was finalized with him, for a booking. We have entire video and audio recording, along with documentary proof of the same. The departmental process of tax and penalty on these offenders has been initiated, and will conclude soon.”
 
 He added: “Marriage palace is a big industry in Punjab, with major businesses in Ludhiana, Jalandhar, and Amritsar. As GST on catering is 18%, some marriage palace owners have adopted the practice of under-billing, and they are evading 80-85% tax by suppressing turnover worth crores. Our campaign against such offenders will continue until compliance is achieved.” 
 
 
