Small screen actors Dipika and Shaoib Ibrahim recently got hitched in a private ceremony in the latter’s hometown, Bhopal. The couple has been in the news since then for their romantic wedding sequences to Dipika's decision of changing her name Faiza for the wedding.

 The couple has fought all odds together and are now happily married. In an exclusive conversation with the TimesOfIndia.com, Dipika and   spoke about their inter-religion marriage, the feeling of being married and their relationship.
 
 "I can't put the feelings in words. I have noticed the change from the day I have got married. I initially though it's ok Shoaib and I have been in a relationship for so long, but no things have changed. May be the way I look at him, the respect towards him has grown. It's a priceless feeling," shared the   actress.
 
 On being asked about the decision of converting to Islam and changing her name, Dipika clarified, "joh sach hai woh hai... It's true I have done it, but why and when I have done it, don't think it needs to be talked about. I think it is a very personal matter and I don't think I need to talk about it openly in front of the media. For the audience and media we are actors have always shared everything. All our happy moments we have shared with you all, but this I think is a very personal space and I don't give anyone the permission to enter the space. Definitely, it is true and I am not denying it. I am very happy and proud that I have done it for myself and my happiness. My family was with me in this decision and my intentions were to hurt anyone. This is my decision. 
 
 Talking about their inter religion wedding the couple says, they never bothered about belonging to different religions, "I feel that when you are a celebrity you are constantly under scanner and there are people who love you, but then there are also people who try to bring you down. We have always taken decisions in life only keeping our family in mind, if they are happy and fine then rest of the world doesn't matter to us. I don't consider myself a celebrity, we are very simple people and we like to lead a simple life," said Shoaib.
 
 The actress also added that it was only after Shoaib quit Sasural Simar Ka they realized their true feelings for each other. "When Shaoib quit SSK we still met and kept in touch, but when he went to Bhopal for a month and he was completely out of sight that's when we realized that it is love. The toughest part for me was when he left to shoot in Bikaner for 40 days in 2015 that was the most difficult phase," said Dipika.
 
 Shoaib added, "The same 40 days played an important role in bringing Dipika closer to my family. After I came back I realized my mother and sister always talked about her first."
 
