Jaisalmer: Fire at the nursery of the forest department at   (IGNP) near   in Jaisalmer, raged on even on second day on Sunday. Fire had raged throughout the night on Saturday but was brought under control at around 7 am on Sunday morning. However, it broke out again and now it is at a distance of 300-400 meter from Army's   mini ammunition depot in canal area in Sultana village, 40km from Jaisalmer. The fire at present is spread in 2-3 km area and due to strong winds, the fire is spreading fast. Since the fire is near the ammunition depot it has increased the worry of   and administration and if fire is not controlled soon then there could be a big danger. Fire tenders and administrative officers have been sent to the spot. On Saturday at 5pm fire broke out and was controlled at 7am in Sunday with great difficulty.

 It is to be mentioned that on Saturday fire broke out at the nursery of the forest department in canal area near Sultana village and spread in 2-3 km area. The strong winds made it even more difficult to control it. Apart from this, the road was so bad that it was very difficult for the Army and common man to reach there. The fire was doused at 7 am on Sunday. However, again it broke out at noon and was spreading due to strong winds. Efforts are being made by the Army, police and villagers to douse it. The ammunition depot is just 300-400 meter now from the spot and the danger has increased. The Army has asked for help from district administration and fire tenders have been sent from Jaisalmer.
 
 Jaisalmer district collector   confirming about fire breaking out again said that the Army on Saturday informed about fire in Dawar area and immediately fire tender and civil defence teams were sent. The Army informed that fire was doused on Sunday at 7am, but again around noon the Army said that fire broke out again in the same area where the SDM and other officials were sent.
 
 She said that all efforts are being made to control the fire but the worry is that the mini ammunition depot is very close to the spot of fire. At present there is no danger but the strong winds are spreading the fire which is a serious thing, she said.
 
 Sultana’s former sarpanch, Jugat Singh, who was also an eyewitness to this said that fire broke out on Saturday evening and was doused on Sunday morning, but again the fire broke out at noon and this time it is closer to the Army’s ammunition depot. He said the place where the fire broke out was difficult to reach. To overcome this problem the police made a route with help of earthmover and Army and others reached the place and are trying to douse the fire.
 
 
