SYDNEY:   is striving to be the most professional and honest team in world cricket, coach   said Saturday as the squad prepares for its first international tour following a damaging ball-tampering scandal.

 
 The former opener recently took the reins during a time of crisis after the 12-month suspensions of ex-captain   and his deputy   over the scandal which also saw previous coach   quit.
 
 Speaking to reporters in   as the team readies for a five-match one-day international series in England next month, Langer said they were aspiring to a culture of world-best professionalism, honesty and humility.
 
 "It doesn't matter how much money you have got or how many games or how many runs. If you're not a good bloke -- that's what people remember," Langer said he recently told the group.
 
 "Our mateship is really important. Sticking together is really important -- that's all of us in the Australian cricket team."
 
 The England tour is Australia's first since the tampering incident during the disastrous South Africa visit in April.
 
 The new head coach said he expected to "cop plenty" from the English crowds and media but his team would look to block it out and concentrate on cricket.
 
 He has vowed to win back the respect of the Australian public but cautioned it would take time and be measured by player behaviour.
 
 "If we behave well on and off the field, then hopefully we will earn some respect back and some trust back," he said.
 
 "The Australian public obviously loves the Australian cricket team and there is more to it than just being good cricketers."
 
 The former opener said the team would not be "mimicking" the styles of other international teams as they try to improve their one-day record.
 
 "We should be so proud in Australia of what we have achieved in our past. We have got our way of doing things and we shouldn't shy away from that," he said.
 
 Australia will kick off the England ODI series on June 13 at the   in London. The tour will also include a one-off Twenty20 match.
 
