KOLKATA: A Trinamool activist was killed in   on Saturday, a day after the Bhangar murder and killing of a   worker at Purulia’s Balampur on Friday, prompting the State Election Commission to issue a fresh directive asking the administration to prevent repeat of such incidents on the day of poll on Monday. SEC is opening a control room on Sunday for better monitoring of polls.

 
 The state administration, on the other hand, was found chasing its target to live up to the security plan it submitted to the court two days ago.
 
 Trinamool activist Mojahir Alam (65) was killed allegedly by   supporters on his way back home from Panjipara gram panchayat area in North Dinajpur’s Goalpokhar on Saturday afternoon after attending apoll meeting addressed by Trinamool minister Md Gulam Rabbani. Police arrested three persons and later armed forces did a route march in the area.
 
 As of now, two platoons from Andhra Pradesh Police have been assigned one each for the two Jangalmahal districts of West Midnapore and Jhargram that share borders with Jharkhand. West Midnapore police swung into action on Saturday after two posters and a tiffin box containing 8mm cartridges were recovered from underneath a culvert at the once-Maoist dominated Kalsibhanga between   and Pirakata, close to the Lakshmanpur forest. Forces from the nearby CRPF camp and bomb squad reached the spot. Later, West Midnapore SP Alok Rajoria said all these were done to spread fear among villagers. “There is nothing to fear. We have a total 10,000 police force in the district,” he said.
 
 However, the forest hamlets of Belpahari and Banspahari bordering Jharkhand and some Nayagram villages on the Bengal-Odisha border are the possible trouble points. Belphari is one area where the Trinamool couldn’t field candidates in some seats. Most panchayat seats in the bordering villages are witnessing a triangular contest between Trinamool, BJP and Adivasi Samanway Manch. CM Mamata Banerjee also expressed concern over this belt in an interview to a television channel.
 
 Accordingly, all bordering villages in north and south Bengal have come under watch. They include West Midnapore, Birbhum sharing border with Jharkhand, Malda having a ready connect with Bihar, Alipurduar that shares border with Assam and parts of Nadia, North 24 Parganas and South Parganas that are close to the Indo-Bangla border.
 
