KOLKATA: Mayor Sovan  , on Thursday, stuck to his stand and insisted that the water supplied to the diarrhoea-affected areas was not contaminated. But even as he was refuting the allegations levelled by opposition councillors at the   headquarters, civic teams were in the field collecting water samples to test them. Coliform bacteria have been found in five such samples collected from Bagha Jatin, the epicentre of the outbreak.

 “There is no problem in the water supplied by KMC. Till now, five samples have been found to be unsatisfactory. Of them, three were collected from packaged water bottles, one from a hand tubewell and one from an underground reservoir. We are worried about the existence of bacteria in packaged drinking water and will take appropriate action,” said Chatterjee. Less than half hour later, MMiC health Atin Ghosh told reporters that a civic team would launch a drive against packaged water wholesellers in the affected zones.
  
  
 Public health experts, however, expressed concern over this shift in focus from identifying the possible contamination points to packaged water whose consumption in the localities like Bagha Jatin, Patuli, Kasba, Garfa and Haltu increased only after the outbreak. A KMC water department official also acknowledged that one of the samples in which bacteria had been detected was collected from a KMC pipeline in Bagha Jatin and not a reservoir.
 
 According to a laboratory technician at the School of Tropical Medicine, E.Coli bacteria has been detected in the stool of patients admitted at Bagha Jatin State  . Doctors say this points to the fact that the disease is waterborne. Since most of these patients had consumed tap water and not packaged water prior to taking ill, the source of the infection was likely to be the water supplied by KMC.
 
 Sources in the KMC health department said a NICED official had warned the civic authority about a possible contamination along the Beliaghata canal. Studies conducted by the institute had alerted them of a possibility of an outbreak.
 
 On the ground, KMC continues to hunt for the source of contamination. Ten teams from the water supply department have been working overtime for the past several days. Each team comprises four persons, including an engineer. The first check is at the   at 6am daily. This is the point where water is drawn from the Hooghly and transported through pipes to the treatment plant at Dhapa. Around 7am, samples are collected at the Dhapa plant, both before and after treatment.
 
 The other teams split up to cover the eight wards comprising Dhakuria (Ward 92), Patuli (110), Baghajatin (102), Santoshpur (103), Haltu-Garfa (105), Kasba (107), Madurdaha (108) and Mukundapur(109) to collect samples from stand posts and households. All the samples are then sent to the laboratories at KMC headquarters and Palta waterworks.
 
 
