Rajkot: The meeting between oil millers and state government over purchase of 8.5lakh tonne groundnut procured at minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 900 per 20kg remained inconclusive on Friday after the two parties along with other stakeholders met at Gondal Market Yard to discuss various related issues.

 Oil millers have also demanded shops and simplification in purchase process.
 
 The meeting was held between members of Saurashtra Oil Millers Association (SOMA), state government and officials of NAFED, the nodal agency for procurement of groundnut. Cabinet ministers R C Faldu and Jayesh Radadia also remained present in the meeting. 
 
 A delegation from SOMA that had met CM Vijay Rupani earlier, place list of their demands like open auction instead of e-tendering for the purchasing of groundnut. 
 
 SOMA president Samir Shah said, “We want government to create demand through various initiatives like declaring incentives on groundnut export. It also needs to declare incentives on groundnut oil cake. The suggestions have been made keeping in mind the trend that since last couple of years production of groundnut has increased in the state.” SOMA also suggested government to advice consumers to consume more groundnut and groundnut oil to increase demand in domestic market.
 
 The oil millers are also demanding separate auction and separate price for each warehouse where procured groundnut is currently stored. They believe that all stock was not of the same quality and they would pay as per quality. They want rate that is less then the market price. 
 
 SOMA also demanded ceiling on the import of other edible oil like palmolein oil and soybean oil. “Government needs to allow import for shortfall of oil as currently the import of edible oils is more then required,” said Shah.
 
 NAFED chairman V R Patel said, “The central government has to take the decision on the suggestion and demand of oil millers. The state government will send these suggestions to the union agriculture ministry with our view. We will see that reasonable suggestions are accepted and the stock is sold.”
 
 
