Trichy: It has been seven months since Trichy Corporation launched a sterilisation drive to control the menace of stray dogs in the city, yet only 40 of the 65 wards have been covered so far. As the agency entrusted with trapping and sterilising the canines claims that only 30 dogs are being sterilized a week, the residents have been getting restless as the menace grows with the summer heat.

 With around 10,000 stray dogs believed to be roaming free across the four zones of the corporation, the civic body had in August last year asked the Animal Welfare and Rural Development trust (AWARD) to sterilise at least 1,300 stray dogs by August this year. The process involved trapping the animal using butterfly method (earlier lassoing method) and releasing it at the same location after completing the sterilisation as stipulated by Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI). 
 
 After seven months of the sterilisation drive, around 820 dogs were sterilised by the Theni-based private trust to which the job was outsourced. However, around 20 wards were not covered in the drive. “With temperature increasing each day, the stray dogs are getting into the compounds seeking food and water. With children playing inside the gates, residents have been feeling insecure. As the canines appear ferocious, walking on the streets is even more challenging,” R Gopikrishnan, a resident of Periyamilaguparai, said.
 
 Since only 13 kennels are available for the entire city on Madurai road, the trust assigned by the civic body has only been capturing and neutering 30 stray dogs a week. After the sterilisation, the stray dogs would be treated in the kennel as part of post-surgery monitoring. The neutered dogs may have to be accommodated in the available kennels for a maximum period of one week for the suture to heal. The limited availability of kennels slows down the entire birth control process in canines. 
 
 “We are forced to conduct the sterilisation drive in the wards that we have already covered leaving at least 25 wards untouched. If the civic body supports us with manpower, we can trap more canines each week,” a source involved in the sterilisation drive said. When contacted, Trichy corporation commissioner N Ravichandran said, “A second Animal Birth Control (ABC) centre for Trichy is under construction at Konakkarai and the works have been expedited. Once the facility becomes functional, we can sterilise at least 50 dogs per day.”
 
 
