Vadodara: The row over resettlement of families ousted from Kalyannagar may finally be settled with the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) proposing to go ahead with the completion of the housing blocks at Kalyannagar itself. Escalation of project cost had led to the contractor stopping work and the VMC too was not willing to bear the extra cost.

 The arrangement now being looked into is that of completing he project with some contributions from the beneficiaries. The civic body will be arranging for loans for the beneficiaries who will have to pay the instalments for the loan. VMC had razed over 1,900 dwellings in the Kalyannagar slums in 2014. Some of the residents of Kalyannagar were given residences in Sayajipura and Kalali. But local residents of Sayajipura and Kalali objected to this as the affected families from Kalyannagar were largely from the minority community.
 
 Later, the VMC reached a settlement and promised that those who were not being allowed to settle in housing schemes at Sayajipura and Kalali by local residents would be given houses at Kalyannagar itself. As many as 618 families are to be paid a rent of Rs 3,000 a month till the housing scheme comes up at Kalyannagar.
 
 Unauthorised extra work was conducted on the project and the contractor stopped work as his payments were not released by the VMC. The civic body initially insisted that that the beneficiaries accept houses at a scheme in Tandalja. Around 50 families have shifted to Tandalja, but the remaining wanted houses in Kalyannagar.
 
 Sources said that the solution that has now been agreed upon involves the beneficiaries paying around Rs 4.2lakh for the houses and he civic body adding around Rs 1.3lakh for each house to ensure that the scheme is completed. The VMC will be arranging for a loan for the beneficiaries for their contribution.
 
 VMC officials said that a formal proposal in this regard was being prepared along with the exact calculations. An extra expense of around Rs 7.5crore was expected to be made at VMC’s end for the project.
 
 
