Residents of New Delhi will get an opportunity to savour the mouthwatering prasadams from famous temples of Tamil Nadu at the food exhibition conducted by Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). The prasadams would be showcased for its quality and hygiene way it is prepared as prescribed by  .

 The prasadams include panchamirtham from Palani Murugan temple and ghee wafting laddu, murukku, appam and puttu from Madurai   temple. Thenkuzhal and adhirasam from   temple would also be sent from Trichy. The famous milagu vadai from   Annamalaiyar temple could also be in the list, if things fall in place.
 
 “While the prasadams from   and Madurai will be airlifted, panchamirtham would be carried in train since the latter’s shelf like is longer. Hundred pieces of each items sent to expo, which is to be held at January 12, in New Delhi. A separate stall for the prasadams has been allotted,” said a higher official from Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department (HR&CE) from Chennai.
 
 The prasadams would be sold at the same price at which they are sold in the temples. For instance, a laddu weighing 60 grams in Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple, which is known for its quality and taste, would be sold for the same Rs 10 in New Delhi too. Similarly, murukku and appam also would be sold at the same price.
 
 “All prasadams are being prepared using the best quality ingredients procured from cooperative societies and it is being checked by a team regularly. For making laddu, the ghee is procured only from Aavin,” said an official from Meenakshi Amman temple.
 
 Officials said that a team of eight officials from HR and CE temple would attend the workshop conducted by FSSAI on the previous day of exhibition. A communication with this regard has been sent to Tiruvannamalai temple. The temple authorities are expected to take a call in a day or two. 
 
 Officials also said that around 40 prominent temples took part in the workshop conducted by FSSAI in 2016 which focused on serving prasadam made in a hygienic manner. Many of them have now got certifications from the food quality ensuring body after they implemented the recommendations made by FSSAI.
 
 This would be the first time prasadams from Tamil Nadu are exhibited. FSSAI had requested the HR& CE officials for this arrangement. It is to sensitise on the quality of prasadams being served in temples.
 
 
