Nagpur: An audience not exactly used to subtle feather like moves of ballet dancers was left gasping as a visual treat of precision, synergy and complexities of movements unfolded at Suresh Bhat auditorium on Monday evening. The presentation was organized by the China Dancers Association, Guangzhou Ballet and Musicians Federation of India. The evening began with Act II of the classic Swan Lake composed by Peter Ilich Tchaikovsky. The ballet tells the story of a white swan who is actually Princess Odette under the spell of a curse which can be broken only by the power of love.  Dancers Ou Jiayuan and YU Xiao presented the act which had delicate swan dancers flowing impeccably along with the raw and swift movements of Xiao. Perfectly in tune, the dancers were a swirl of soft white tutus, their attire, which was elegant and tasteful. The second presentation was the classic Grand Pas de Deux or a couple dance performed by MA Minghao and Huang Biamao. The choreography brought out the dancing skills of the duo as they seemed to be floating around, totally in control of their moves which made difficult leaps and turns look effortless. Minghao was a picture of grace and agility while performing the pirouettes with ease. Chinese ballet Natural Melody brought a change in costumes and form as dancers in flowing robes twirled and swirled to the strains of Chinese Guqin — a seven stringed musical instrument. A performance which has won awards at international events, this one choreographed by Zhang Jianmin celebrated the harmony between heaven and earth through freehand style. Act II of Swan Lake was another Pas de deux performance which had Jiayuan paired with Lu Chengshen. Both donned black to bring out the underlying evil intentions of Odile, daughter of the devil who came to steal the love that the prince had for Princess Odette. The extreme precision and complexity of the couple’s legs weaving around made the moves stand out. In what has come to be known as Jazz Ballet, dancers dressed in everyday clothes moved to the music composed by Elton John to bring forth the pains of parting and loneliness that engulfs couples in love, as the group of dancers lived that pain on stage.  The final presentation was a Chinese symphony ballet ‘The Butterfly lovers’ choreographed by Fu Xingbang. With white fans in hands as props, every line, every extension and suspension was executed with grace and perfect classical technique.