NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Monday ordered attachment of all unencumbered assets of two holding companies of former promoters of   Malvinder Singh and   Singh. An unencumbered asset is free of any claims, i.e. not mortgaged or pledged.

 The HC decided to attach assets to execute the Rs 3,500-crore arbitral award won by Japanese pharma major   and upheld by Justice Jayant Nath earlier this year.
 
 On Monday, Justice Nath issued warrants for attaching the unencumbered assets of RHC Holdings and Oscar Investments and directed Singh brothers and 10 others to file within 10 days a list of their unencumbered assets.
 
 The HC further restrained till March 23, the next date of hearing, RHC Holdings from operating its bank accounts, except for payment of salaries and statutory dues and directed the Singh brothers to maintain status quo on all the assets where they have any interest.
 
 The court’s directions came after Daiichi brought up two affidavits filed by the two companies in 2016 and 2017, giving the list of their unencumbered assets and urged the court to attach the assets, to secure its award. However the Singh brothers asked the court to first appoint a chartered accountant to set the process in motion, following which Justice Nath decided to order attachment of assets.
 
 The HC had earlier restrained Singh brothers and others from selling or transferring their shares or any movable or immovable property and during the pendency of Daiichi’s plea, Singh brothers had disclosed their assets to the court in sealed covers in December 2016 and March 2017.
 
 A tribunal in Singapore had passed the award in favour of Daiichi, holding that the Singh brothers concealed information that the Indian company was facing probes by the US Food and Drug Administration and the Department of Justice, while selling its shares.
 
 On January 31, Justice Nath upheld the international arbitral award passed in favour of Daiichi and paved the way for enforcement of the 2016 tribunal award against the brothers, though HC removed liability against five minors who were also shareholders in Ranbaxy, saying they cannot be held guilty of having perpetuated a fraud either themselves or through any agent. Daiichi had moved the HC in 2016, seeking enforcement of a Rs 2,562-crore Singapore arbitral award passed in April 2016, along with an additional claim of interest and lawyers’ fees incurred in connection with the proceedings. 
 
 
 
