Panaji: Officially, at least, there are less than eight months left for the   2018 to kickstart, even as the state is ‘gearing up’ to host the event on schedule. But if you look around, nobody has been left in any doubt that hosting the Games later this year may simply not be possible.

 Let’s look at the infrastructure first.
 
 Six new facilities are to be constructed for the National Games, yet some tenders have not been floated till now. The   Authority of Goa (SAG) floated tenders for three projects — indoor stadium at Pernem, refurbishment of the indoor stadium at Campal and indoor stadium at Ponda — but bidders have time till April 23 to submit duly-filled tender documents.
 
 Even if, as the SAG is aiming, work starts immediately, SAG’s own tender notice gives companies 240 days (8 months) to complete work, which is beyond the scheduled start of the National Games on November 4, 2018.
 
 Then there is the question of finances? Where would the money come from? The three projects alone will cost Rs 68 crore, besides the Multipurpose Indoor Stadium at Navelim, tennis courts and cycling velodrome at Fatorda, squash facility at Chicalim and a hockey facility at Peddem would need considerable time and investment.
 
 SAG executive director V M Prabhu Desai is putting up a brave front, but admitted that without chief minister Manohar Parrikar –– recovering from a pancreatic ailment in New York –– there is a void that is becoming difficult to fill.
 
 “There is no doubt about Parrikar’s ability. His decision making and ability to provide finances is unique. We pray that he comes back (soon). A void has been created,” said Prabhu Desai.
 
 When there were doubts about Goa’s capacity to host the games –– initially scheduled to held in 2011 –– Indian Olympic Association (IOA) general secretary Rajeev Mehta had a closed-door meeting with Parrikar, who assured him that the necessary infrastructure would come up on schedule. 
 
 Parrikar’s words were reassuring for the IOA, and on his insistence, Mehta agreed not to proceed with a fine of Rs 10 crore for the delay or, more harshly, allot the games to Andhra Pradesh where chief minister Chandrababu Naidu is waiting in the wings.
 
 Now with Parrikar unwell and not expected to return to Goa for the next two months at least, things are again in a state of flux.
 
 “Parrikar’s absence is a setback. We know that he can deliver; we saw that with the Lusofonia Games (in 2014),” said Goa Olympic Association secretary Gurudutta Bhakta.
 
 “The IOA is asking questions on a daily basis and I am telling them it’s very much possible. We have done it in the past, and unless the government tells me otherwise, the games are on schedule,” said Bhakta.
 
 Bhakta’s bravado is understandable. As the face of the Goa bid, he must stay positive, although ground reality suggests otherwise. Even if, for example, work on the three tendered projects starts immediately, other projects cannot come up overnight.
 
 The IOA, for now, is adopting a wait-and-watch approach. But in two months when it’s time for chef de missions (head of delegations) to visit the state, the lack of preparedness will be difficult to explain.
 
 “The meeting (of chef de missions) must be held six months before the games begin. Till it’s cancelled, or they see everything for themselves, we have to wait,” said Bhakta.
 
 Time is running out.
 
 BOX
 
 FACILITIES TO BE NEWLY CONSTRUCTED
 
 Tennis courts at Fatorda
 
 Cycling velodrome at Fatorda
 
 Squash facility at Chicalim
 
 Multipurpose Indoor Stadium, Navelim
 
 Hockey facility at Peddem
 
 Multipurpose Indoor Stadium, Pernem
 
 FACILITIES TO BE REFURBISHED
 
 Multipurpose Indoor Stadium, Campal
 
 Campal open ground
 
 Multipurpose Indoor Stadium, Ponda
 
 Multipurpose Indoor Stadium, Fatorda
 
 Swimming pool, Fatorda
 
 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
 
 Colvale for rowing
 
 Dona Paula for yachting
 
 Miramar for beach volleyball
 
 
