While for some Delhiites, this is the time to try to stick to their new year resolutions, for others, it is the time to prepare boxes of clothes and other items to distribute among the less privileged. The first week of January is usually the time when   see an upsurge in donations. The season of giving starts from December and continues till January. With hundreds of queries regarding   coming in every day, this is a busy time for NGOs, which also have some interesting observations about what people across NCR donate. For instance, Tarun Walecha, a Delhi-based runner who was collecting   in the last week of December to donate to NGOs in Delhi’s rural areas, tells us that most pairs of running shoes he has received so far are brand new. 

 "Most of the shoes that I have received are brand new. This clearly shows that every year, people decide to get into fitness, but don’t stick to their new year resolution. We have collected around 100 pairs of shoes this time and a good number haven’t even been worn once," says Tarun.
 Apart from interesting details about what they get as donations, NGOs also tell us that in NCR, Gurgaon is the city from where maximum donations – especially clothes – are collected.
 
  
  Picture for representational purpose
 
 
 
 The NGOs across NCR say that they get 90% of their donations in the form of clothes. However, according to them, only 50% of the total collection can be used for further distribution. "For kids, any kind of clothes work, but when it comes to women, we need Indian clothes to be distributed in Tier II and III cities and other rural areas. There are no takers for western wear that is donated by most of the women in Delhi. We hardly receive saris or salwar-kameez for donation. We also have this inside joke that Delhi women should stop shopping as they have so many clothes that can’t be reused by people in need. Women here buy saris or any other expensive ethnic wear only for specific occasions and those are not for donation," says Sajan Abrol, founder of  .
 Clothes are the only category for which people ask for a pick-up facility because the bundles are huge to carry. "Almost 99% callers in a day ask us if we can pick up bundles of clothes from their place," adds Sajan. Some NGOs like Goonj have designated dropping centres for clothes and the information of these dropping centres comes with a list of dos and don’ts. “Give only wearable/washed/usable material and do not expect a centre’s volunteer to lift the material” – is a part of the list.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 At a time when stories are read by grandparents and parents from their tabs and phones, it doesn’t come as a surprise when NGO volunteers tell us that among many stationery items donated, the highest number is of storybooks and dictionaries. "When people clear their libraries at homes, dictionaries are the first and the most obvious option to do away with. Among all the books that we got for kids, the highest number was of dictionaries. From pocket dictionary to the fancy ones that once used to be a prized possession, we receive every kind to be distributed among students," says Deviya Prabhakar, who was working as a volunteer and teacher in a kids’ NGO and is now a part of NGO Khel Khel Mein Foundation in Delhi. 
 
  
  
 
 After clothes, toys are an important component of the donations that NGOs receive. Soft toys and musical instruments, mostly unused, form a part of this category. "Sometimes, the soft toys are still gift wrapped and are passed on to us. I think kids receive a number of soft toys as birthday gifts and they don’t use all of them, so most soft toys are either regifted or donated. Also, we receive musical instruments like a drum kit, piano, and synthesizer. Often, we get instruments that are brand new. Some of them are very expensive also," says Santanu Mishra, co-founder and executive trustee of Smile Foundation. He adds that apart from people in NCR, NRIs, who visit their families on New Year, donate toys and gifts to NGOs.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 Be it corporate houses or individuals, the culture of giving is seemingly most popular in Gurgaon as NGOs claim that the maximum number of donations are from Gurgaon. After Gurgaon, north Delhi is second in the list. "When we started the process of collecting clothes in NCR, we thought that we will have most donations from south Delhi, given the profile of the place, but our excel sheets tell a different story as we get more donations from people living in north Delhi. On an average we receive 70 to 80 clothes, per donor, each day, from both north Delhi and Gurgaon," says Sajan. 
 Not just clothes, Gurgaon tops the list in donating other things also. "Though we have never done any internal audit or survey about this, Gurgaon definitely has the highest number of donations in NCR. It can be because most people in Gurgaon are from other cities and are here for jobs. They keep moving to places so they have a lot of stuff to donate," says Shradha Agarwal, resource mobilization manager from Udayan Care. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
