NOIDA: If 2017 was a landmark year for Indian badminton, the credit goes largely to national badminton coach   whose role in guiding the cream of India's shuttlers resulted in numerous medals and an influx of players in the top 25. Of them, it is Gopichand's protégé   who had a breakout 2017, becoming the first Indian to win four Superseries titles in a year while rising to a career-high No 2 in the BWF rankings. 

 
 
 
 On Monday, Srikanth and Gopichand visited the TOI office and spoke about the year gone by and what lies ahead. 
 
 
 
 
 For me, at the beginning of 2017 it was more about getting back to 100% fitness and getting back on court. The moment I got to 100% and returned to the court, that’s when I started to think about winning tournaments and doing well in Superseries. Luckily, with the help of all my coaches and support staff at the academy, I was able to achieve that. I'm really thankful to all of them for getting me back to fitness.
 
 
 The international circuit has become more open, everyone in the top 20-25 is playing extremely well. So it's really important that each time I face these players I be at my 100%. In the last couple of tournaments, I've played someone who is outside of the top 20 and reached finals. In the French Open I played a qualifier in the final. It's become totally open. On their given day, any player can beat a top player. It's very important for everybody to be at their 100%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As Srikanth has mentioned, 2017 was a great year but the critical tournaments and important events are in 2018. It's very important for me that India does well in the four important tournaments of the year, which for me are the All-England Championship,  , World Championships and the Asian Games. At the end of the day, these are tournaments were performances really matter. I believe that what we’ve seen in 2017 is that Srikanth is capable of fantastic results. What we need to do at is ensure that at the big events, he does just that.
 
  
  
 
 
 I think it's great to have someone of the calibre of Lin Dan comment the way he did, so it just goes to show the immense capability and strengths that Srikanth has in his all-round game. It's definitely true, what Lin Dan has said. I've seen very few players with the kind of quality he has. On a fast court and in windy conditions, I think he's one of the best players in the world. 
 
 
 
 
 He needs to develop an all-round game in conditions which are slower and he has to adapt to a more strength and fitness-oriented rally. The greatest quality which I see in him is his ability to adapt to the conditions. It will take time to have a complete game which will produce results in all conditions in the world, but at his age he definitely has the best prospects. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 He’s the best I have trained under, for sure. He's been important for Indian badminton, because if he had not started coaching, I don’t think Indian badminton would have come this far. All the credit goes to him, and he's the most important person in Indian badminton. 
 
 
 I think the great part of the last few years has been the success we've got. The unfortunate part in the last few years is the fact that we've not really been able to build a system. High performance, grooming players, long-term vision, systematic development of an ecosystem for sport is something which we unfortunately haven't developed. There's a lot more work that has to be done. More importantly, we need a lot more maturity and understanding of the problem and solving it. We as a nation need to start looking at it to get sustainable results. 
 
 We've seen what can happen, what is possible in the field of badminton when you put your efforts in and push yourself for a sustained period of time. What we see is very, very good but what we can get is incredible. It is only possible if the entire system works together.
 
 In the way we've worked, I think I have been very fortunate. God's been very kind, otherwise we would not have got the results that we have. Having said that, for us to be able to sustain this long-term, it is important that our country starts to look at sport differently.
 
