CHENNAI: Inordinate delay by   in processing and disposing of applications for regularisation of unapproved layouts has been frustrating applicants, who have to make several trips to Ripon Building to follow up on their papers. 

 
 The civic body has received 5,297 applications for regularization since the scheme was rolled out on May 4, 2017, with most of the applications coming from Madhavaram, Ambattur, Valsaravakkam, Perungudi, and Shollinganallur zones. Since the extension of the May 3 deadline, the corporation received 1,891 applications.
 
 Calling for decentralisation of the process, which could be handled at zonal office levels involving more officials, residents say it is taking months now. "After I applied for approval of a plot in   in November, not even an acknowledgment was sent. For every status update, I need to keep visiting Ripon Building. After all these months, I am yet to receive an approval," said V Moses.
 
 Sources said only six engineers were working on the regularization files, though the number of pending applications ran to several thousands. Two plot owners were flummozed when they were asked to produce no-objection certificates from   for layouts in Moulivakkam and Madhavaram. 
 
 "What does   have to do with properties so far, in Moulivakkam?" questioned a resident. "We need a hassle-free and public-friendly approach. What is the use of conducting camps urging people to get their sub-divisions and layouts regularised, when the process is so cumbersome and never-ending?" questioned G Satish of Sholinganallur.
 
 Officials, however, told TOI that 240 layouts had been approved till date and that the process was picking up steam when compared to earlier months when only 13 layouts got approval in a span of a year. According to officials, 597 applications were for plots in CRZ area. "Non-submission of all the required documents by the applicant is one of the causes of delay. Once we get the update from CMDA, the applicant can submit all the missing files even in a day," he said. Scrutiny of the framework plan takes two weeks for the   if the documents are in order. Orders have been issued to involve two more engineers in regularization work, said an official.
 
