BENGALURU: Schools cannot refuse admission to an   under the   (RTE) quota just because the student resides beyond a 1km radius from the school, the   ruled in a judgment. The court also ruled that it is mandatory for schools to admit all students on the list forwarded by the government under  .

 The ruling was made on a plea filed by city-based private school   in August 2016, challenging the list sent for admission under RTE quota. The school contended that some of the students on the list resided at a distance over 1km, contravening Rule 6 of RTE Rules 2010.
 
 However, Justice Vineet Kothari, in his order, stated: “Once a list approved by the district administration is forwarded to schools for admission, educational institutions are bound to comply. Admissions to the extent of 25% quota as envisaged under the RTE Act have to be provided by private schools.”
 
 ‘Schools must admit all kids in govt list’
 
 Disposing of the petition, Justice Kothari stated that the intent of Rule 6 under the RTE rules was to provide adequate infrastructure facilities to the economically weaker sections of society so that the right to education guaranteed children under Article 21A of the Constitution is achieved. This is the very object of the RTE Act, he said.
 
 The judge noted that Rule 6 only “casts a duty on the central government, appropriate state government or the local authority to ensure that suitable schools to impart education to students and children from Classes 1to 5 are opened within a 1km radius of their residence”.
 
 The school contended that as per a May 23, 2016 circular issued by the commissioner, department of public instruction, schools have to consider only applications of students who reside within a 1km radius. The court dismissed the school’s contention stating that neither Rule 6 of RTE Rules 2010, nor the circular issued by the state government can be read in isolation and it would be contrary to the RTE Act if schools deny admission to any student on this or any other ground.
 
