AMRITSAR: The Akal Takht constituted 21-member   (SCB) to resolve the issue of misrepresentation of Sikh religious personalities and history in movies won’t be able to do much, claim Sikh intellectuals and members of the committee. They feel it could have some deterrent effect, but it would weaken the demand of the   for inclusion of its representatives in the   (CBFC), better known as the censor board, to clear movies on Sikh religion and history.

 Many members of the SCB were taken by surprise to find their names on the panel. They wondered how they would work without any specific guidelines by the supreme temporal seat of the Sikhs. Ahead of release of ‘Nanak Shah Fakir’ in April, the Akal Takht Jathedar had announced the formation of the SCB
 
 Talking to TOI on Wednesday, former general secretary of SGPC   said the formation of board would only weaken the SGPC’s demand of inclusion of its representatives in the censor board. “The SGPC had always been demanding inclusion of its representatives in the CBFC, which has a legal say in clearing the movies,” he said, adding that the SCB wouldn’t have any legal sanctity but a religious significance among believers.
 
 “The whole Panth had opposed the release of ‘Nanak Shah Fakir’ movie but the producer got the release orders from the Supreme Court. In such a situation what would be the significance of the SCB,” Bhaur said. He said he was never asked before including him in the board. “I have been the acting president of the SGPC four times and general secretary 16 times. I was surprised to read my name in the committee at number 21 whereas other SGPC employees are on the top,” he rued.
 
 Former general secretary of  , who is also one of the members of the SCB, said, “I am yet to know how the board will work, its jurisdiction and what exactly we are supposed to do and how, before making any comment.”
 
 Another member of the SCB and former jathedar of   said, “This board will not be a final authority for sure, but it will certainly have its say and can guide movie producers and raise objections if anything was found objectionable before the film gets final clearance from the censor board.” He said in 1945, the then jathedar of Akal Takht Giani Udham Singh Nagoke had issued the directions not to make any movie showing Sikh Gurus and members of their families in human form. He said the members were yet to receive guidelines, following which they would know their jurisdiction and line of functioning.
 
 When asked whether the SCB would weaken the SGPC’s demand of inclusion of its representatives in the censor board, Rode claimed that Sikh intellectuals had already rejected that proposal. “The movie or documentaries have to be screened by an Akal Takht-constituted board only,” he said. Meanwhile, despite repeated attempts, Akal Takht jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh couldn’t be contacted for comments.
 
 
