HUBBALLI: Bharat Forge Limited, the Pune-based Indian multinational, is all set to establish a unit for machining various forged components at   industrial area in Hubballi-Dharwad.

 The unit will be established with an investment of Rs 150 crore and will generate 500 jobs for local people, said sources in the District Industry Centre (DIC). 
 
 The State Level Single Window Clearance Committee (SLSWCC) of the department of industries and commerce has cleared the proposal for the establishment of the unit. Sources said the 49th Land Audit Committee noted the project proposal of the company and after detailed discussions, resolved to recommend to SLSWCC to approve Bharat Forge’s project to establish the unit.
 
 It also recommended Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board ( ) to allot 6o acres of contiguous land in Mummigatti Industrial Area. The SLSWCC meeting, after discussing the project details and keeping in view the land utilisation details and the recommendations made by the Land Audit Committee, resolved to approve the project proposal.
 
 The proposed unit, according to the proceedings of the SLSWCC, a copy of which is available with TOI, will utilize 1,50,000 litres of water per day from KIADB and its own sources. The unit will require 3,000 KVA of electricity from HESCOM. The company requires all statutory clearances before the commencement of production.
 
 The department has asked the company to comply with the provisions of Industrial Policy with respect to local employment on the project and prepare a plan for development of human resources required for the project and train local people. It has also asked Bharat Forge to prepare a vendor development plan, develop local vendors and procure the required inputs, components and sub-assemblies from them.
 
 DIC joint director Nagesh Pattanashetty told TOI that the unit will be a hi-tech machining centre. “The small units situated at Belur industrial area will also benefit from the plant,” he said. Ramesh Patil, the proprietor of the Patil Electric Works Pvt Ltd, said that he can buy forged shaft, a component, locally instead of buying it in Bengaluru. 
 
 Bharat Forge is part of Kalyani Group, a $ 2.5 billion conglomerate.
 
 
