BENGALURU: Commuters will soon be able to use   smart cards in BMTC buses and swipe them at merchant establishments, thanks to an upgradation exercise undertaken by the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL).

 The move entails converting closed-loop Metro smart cards into open-loop ones. Incidentally, BMTC, the other major utility that shares Bengaluru’s transport burden, already allows use of open-loop smart cards in buses as well as shops.
 
 Once BMRCL switches to the open-loop system, a common mobility card usable at both Metro stations and on BMTC buses will become a reality. Metro smart cards will be accepted by the BMTC and vice-versa. 
 
 Under its Phase 2 operations, BMRCL promises to offer commuters ease of travel. It plans to facilitate Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) with open-loop smart cards and QR code tickets at all Metro stations. The corporation is in talks with private firms for software modifications at ticket collection points in existing Phase 1 stations to allow use of open-loop smart cards, since a complete overhaul of the current set-up wouldn’t be cost effective. 
 
 BMRCL managing director Mahendra Jain said: “We recently held discussions with BMTC officials to allow commuters to use the same card in both Metro and buses. For Phase 2, we have decided to put in place a system that accepts open-loop smart cards so that passengers with BMTC cards can travel via Metro too,” adding, “We are considering upgrading card readers and related software to accept open-loop cards at existing Phase 1 stations too.” 
 
 Experts say the open-loop system is viable since the cards can be used to pay for parking, shopping and tour fee collection, apart from being integrated with other modes of transport like taxis or autorickshaws.
 
 “The BMTC system is already in line with National Common Mobility Card (NCMC). BMRCL should implement Automatic Fare Collection for Phase II based on   standards and should also upgrade Phase I stations,” said an expert working for common mobility cards in several states.
 
 Pawan Mulukutla, senior manager of urban transport at the   (WRI), said: “The issue of having multiple smart cards for different agencies could have been avoided if the city had a   (UMTA). A common mobility card is the need of the hour.”
 
 Metro Phase 2 — including Byappanahalli to ITPL-Whitefield, Mysore Road Terminal to Kengeri, Hesaraghatta Cross to Bangalore International Exhibition Centre, Puttenahalli Cross to Anjanapura Township, R V Road to Bommasandra, Gottigere-IIMB - Nagawara and Nagawara-Kempegowda International airport — is expected to be completed by 2022.
 
 
