HYDERABAD: To provide seamless connectivity to   from two directions, the   (GHMC) has decided to soon construct two mega flyovers. One flyover will be from Aramgarh to   and the second flyover will be from Nalgonda crossroads to Owaisi Hospital ( ). Both the flyovers will be constructed at a cost of 636 crore and 523 crore respectively.

 Official sources said the two new flyovers are required because there are several bottlenecks on the existing routes to the airport, leading to traffic congestion.
 
 For instance, major bottlenecks are experienced after the 11 km PVNR expressway from SD Eye Hospital ends at Aramgarh. After the flyover is constructed, commuters can travel up to Zoo Park without any hassle. Currently, presence of several religious structures, graveyards, national police academy boundary and Miralam Tank boundary leads to traffic choked roads. Widening of roads is not possible due to the presence of these religious properties, hospitals, police station and barracks, officials said.
 
 "The proposed flyover at Amargarh will be useful for commuters going from   to the airport via Puranapul and Bahadurpura, which is about 7.4 km from Puranapul. The state government had already sanctioned a flyover at Bahadurpura junction at a cost of 63 crore," GHMC superintending engineer (projects) Dattu Panth told TOI.
 
 For now, the Nalgonda crossroads flyover covers only Malakpet junction and there are bottlenecks on Saidabad and Santoshnagar road too. Interestingly, Hyderabad MP   has also requested the state government to sanction a flyover to end traffic chaos.
 
 A consultant engaged by the municipal corporation also suggested that a flyover is required for hassle free commute from Nalgonda crossroads, Chanchalguda, Saidabad up to Santoshnagar cross road. "Commuters going towards the airport from Malakpet or surrounding areas can take the proposed four kms long flyover and get down after Owaisi Hospital and take Chandrayangutta flyover to reach the airport. It is also useful for traffic coming from L B Nagar," the superintending engineer said.
 
 GHMC zonal commissioner ( ) S Srinivas Reddy said feasibility studies for both the flyovers have been completed and the proposal would be placed before the standing committee soon. After getting clearances, the GHMC would send it to the state government for administrative sanction for taking up works.
 
 
