TIRUVANNAMALAI: Fourteen girls aged between 15 and 17 have been rescued from child marriages in the last three weeks in  , indicating that the illegal practice continues unabated in the district. 

 On Akshaya Tritiya (April 18), the officials stopped a total of five marriages in different parts of the district. They also filed cases against parents of three minor girls and bridegrooms under the provisions of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006.
 
 The all-woman police in Tiruvannamalai sub-division also arrested Sekar, 56, and Lakhsmi, 38, parents of a 15-year-old girl, and groom Pandian's mother Roja, 42, under Section 9 and 10 of Prohibition of Child Marriage Act. The police are on the lookout for Pandian and his father  . "The girl and the boy eloped and got married. After they returned home, both the families agreed for their marriage and fixed the reception on April 4. But the district social welfare officers stopped it. The girl is under the care of child welfare committee," said a police officer.
 
 "The awareness level has increased among youngsters and we are getting frequent calls. But we are still facing the wrath of the villagers, elders and politicians when we try to stop the child marriages," said an extension officer of the social welfare office. She was one among the field staff who thwarted seven child marriages in January, 11 in February and six in March. In fact, the officials had stopped a total of 110 child marriages in 2017. One of the girls, N Nandhini, who stood firm against the age-old practice, was honoured with women empowerment award. "We have received a total of 17 calls since April 1. Of them, three have turned out to be fake. Many of the girls have been handed over to child welfare committee to help them continue their studies," district social welfare officer   told TOI.
 
 However, the efforts to rescue a 16-year-old girl from the marriage ended in vain. "Our teams reached   in   taluk on the night of April 24 to stop the marriage of a minor girl. When the officials were persuading the relatives to stop the marriage, the girl's family members forcibly took her away through the backyard," said the official.
 
 She said they had filed a case against the girl's parents, groom and his parents for abducting the girl for marriage on April 25. "We don't know what happened to the girl," said the official.
 
 The police are yet to track down the girl and the family members. "We are hoping the police will rescue the girl soon and take suitable action against her family members," added the official.
 
 
