MANGALURU: At five billion-plus views, it is easily the top 100 most-watched videos of all time on YouTube.   by Luis Fonsi featuring   has spawned remakes in many leading languages, and joining the bandwagon are two south Indian languages - Telugu and Konkani. While the Telugu version hit   on March 15, the Konkani version followed suit on March 31. Both the versions have raked in good number of views - 12 lakh for Telugu, and three lakh for Konkani. 

 Making these two language versions happen are actors Ester Noronha and  , who are currently working on Telugu film Nayanam. It was their time spent on the sets in picturesque Goa and their wish to do something extra off-shooting that saw the project get conceptualized, shot and released on to YouTube within a fortnight. There was no gala announcement, but just a soft launch. 
 
 Asserting that her heart always throbbed for Konkani, Ester told TOI that it was the collaboration with Noel, a well-known rapper-actor-singer that saw this video single in two languages see the light of the day. "A suggestion by producer of Nayanam to do a promo made us put on our thinking caps. The fallout is the set of two videos," she said. "A chance listening to this peppy original inspired me to make a Konkani version, and Noel was game," Ester adds. 
 
 Describing the original as a landmark in the history of video singles, Ester said: "I personally like this as a package." Stating that the song deserved a good remake in Konkani, Ester said: "This, at the same time, should be an effort that will also get our crowd - the Konkani people in general, and Indian or any other crowd in particular, hum it on the lines of the original and also relate to it." The two actors have penned the respective lyrics.
 
 While the Telugu version has crossed 12.63 lakh views since March 15, the Konkani version has seen 3.10 lakh views.
 
  "Video is a good way to put Konkani on the global map," Ester said, adding that she is sure it will evoke curiosity among the masses about the language. The video was also about promoting Indian locations on lines with the original, Ester said, adding that the response she has had from friends and well-wishers has only gladdened her.
 
 
