KOLKATA: Caught in a political cauldron over the vandalism of Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s bust inside C R Das Memorial Garden at  , mayor   has instructed municipal commissioner Khalil Ahmed to secure the statues of other personalities installed at the park and prevent the situation from precipitating further.

 Chatterjee met Ahmed on Thursday and asked him to make all possible arrangements to prevent a repeat on statues of Chittaranjan Das, Basanti Devi, Jatindra Mohun Sengupta and others that are installed there.
 
 The civic body continued to remain undecided over the fate of the damaged bust a day after it was vandalized. The sculptor’s son though has ruled out its repair or restoration and said it would have to be sculpted afresh.
 
 Sculptor Goutam Pal, whose father Kartick Chandra Paul had sculpted the damaged bust, told TOI he would be more than glad to help if the civic authorities or state government officials approached him. “First, let the politics and violence over the statue end,” he said.
 
 A KMC parks department official acknowledged that the damage caused by the blows of the hammer to the bust’s eye and nose seemed to be beyond repair. Pal said a new marble bust would take at least three months to sculpt and cost Rs 2.5 lakh-Rs 3 lakh. Even a bronze bust would take as much time. “Till the new statue is ready, a temporary statue made of fibre, cement or plaster of Paris can be installed in two-three weeks,” Pal said.
 
 The bust was installed at the park on June 23, 1983, exactly three decades after Mookerjee’s demise in Kashmir. Mookerjee and   had visited Paul’s studio in Krishnagore prior to Independence in 1940 and had sat while he made their portraits. Back then, Mookerjee was a Congressman. The differences with Nehru surfaced a few years later and he quit the party in 1951 and founded the right wing nationalist Bharatiya Jana Sangh.
 
 “My father had an ability to create a mini clay portrait in 3-5 minutes. In 1942, when he was still very young,   allowed him to make his portrait at a live sitting. He had similarly drawn live portraits of Mahatma Gandhi, Jayprakash Narayan and several others,” said Pal.
 
 Apart from the vandalised bust, Paul sculpted at least four more statues of Mookerjee. Two of them sculpted in 1970 are installed at   and Calcutta University. In 1987, a 12-ft statue was commissioned by the state government and installed on Red Road. In 1993, the UP government installed a 12-ft statue of the leader that was installed in Lucknow in 1996.
 
