NEW DELHI: The neighbours of Nitin Sharma, the mastermind in the kidnapping of a five-year-old boy from a school bus, often wondered how a small dhaba   could lead a lavish lifestyle. On Tuesday, the residents of A-Block in Gokulpuri got to know how.

 Sharma was also neck deep in debt and this had prompted him to plan the crime. Several of his lenders had approached Sharma’s family to get back their money, but he remained unfazed. Instead, he sent his wife and parents back to his hometown in Rajasthan six months ago.
 
 TOI visited the two rooms on the ground floor of house number 543 that was purchased by Sharma’s father, Mamraj, 20 years ago. Neighbours said that Sharma’s father had set up the dhaba after renting out the basement of a sweet shop near the Gokulpuri main road.
 
 “The business went down after Nitin took over from his father. He showed little interest in running the shop,” said Atul Rana, a friend of Sharma. The accused had dropped out of a regular school in Class X and joined an open school. However, he didn’t clear his Class XII.
 
 Amit Kumar, a neighbour, said, “He used to get expensive bikes and cars and wore branded clothes. He had taken several loans. He used to give Gokulpuri as his address to loan agents and stayed elsewhere.”
 
 The accused sourced raw material for his dhaba from one of the shops owned by the victim’s family. He came to know that the child’s father had recently landed a business deal worth Rs 57 lakh. He then roped in Ravi, a resident of B-Block who used to work at the dhaba earlier, to carry out the crime.
 
 After kidnapping the child, Sharma asked Ravi to look after him. Police said the child had grown friendly with him during his 12-day stay in the Sahibabad apartment.
 
 Pankaj, a native of Rajasthan and Ravi’s neighbour, worked as a waiter with a catering firm. Ravi’s father used to supply labourers for wedding functions and that’s how they became acquainted. Sharma also sourced his labourers through Ravi’s contacts. Pankaj was found involved in a vehicle theft case. He had shot the school van driver in the thigh before kidnapping the child, Vihaan.
 
 
