NEW DELHI: Taking strong   to the Delhi Police’s failure to provide   to   conducting the   against   in the capital, the   said the   would have to   for defying its order.

 Taking cognisance of the report filed by SC-appointed monitoring committee, which is overseeing the task of sealing and alleged that the Delhi Police was not cooperating, a bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta said it was a very serious issue and needed to be addressed at the earliest.
 
 Advocate A D N Rao, appearing for the committee, contended that the sealing drive could not be carried on without support of police as traders and residents attacked officials. He said the Delhi Police was not following the SC’s earlier order directing it to provide protection to the members of committee and officials involved in the sealing drive.
 
 The committee in its report said, “The police force has not been made available in large number of cases in almost all zones of Delhi, thereby impeding the sealing operations as well as resultant waste of manpower of the agencies concerned ... this dismal situation has been brought to the notice of the Commissioner of Police by a letter dated March 22. It is brought to the notice of the court that in various parts of Delhi, similar situation was created time and again due to non-availability of police force.”
 
 “It is unbearable situation where the nodal police officer agreed to make adequate arrangements, the SHO at the operational level was unwilling to take action. Such non-cooperation on the part of police has adverse effects on other agencies which are not very enthusiastic to carry out sealing operations,” the report said.
 
 The committee, comprising former advisor of Election Commission K J Rao, Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA) chairman Bhure Lar and Major General Som Jhingan, said police refused to provide force 24 times between March 16 and April 4 for sealing and demolition work in different areas in East Delhi.
 
 The bench got infuriated after reading the report and directed the Delhi Police Commissioner to be present before it on Thursday. “Call your police commissioner tomorrow (Thursday),” the bench told the Centre’s counsel. 
 
 But additional solicitor general A N S Nadkarni did the fire-fighting and assured the court that he had talked to the commissioner and told him categorically that not providing police personnel for carrying out sealing and demolition drive would amount to contempt.
 
 He submitted that appropriate number of police personnel would be provided to the teams for conducting sealing drive. The court posted the case for hearing on Monday.
 
 The apex court had in March 2006 ordered sealing of all unauthorised constructions in the city and appointed the monitoring committee which was given the task to conduct and monitor sealing drive. The sealing drive went on till January 2012 when court asked the committee not to proceed further as the government has brought in force 2021 Master Plan for regularising some of the illegal construction. But the apex court in December revived the committee and directed it to resume sealing operations. 
 
 
