Hands on accelerators, feet on gears and they are set to fly. For these like-minded groups of people, biking is all about being on roads, witnessing endless landscapes, crossing several hurdles before reaching the destination. PT met a few such biker gangs, who have covered thousands of kilometres on their hot wheels...

 ENFIELD NATION RIDERS CLUB
 This club has more than 40 riders, with minimum age limit of 18. They call their den Riderzpit, located near Boring Road area, where they gather every weekend to make travel plans. From safety gears to bike accessories, everything is available here. “We organise riding events and make   aware of safety rules during an expedition,” informed Abhinav Gaurav, a member and a banker by profession. The members of this group have a special liking for their cruiser bikes and have rechristened them with names like Christine, Dyna et al. They have visited every corner of India and have also explored a few places in Nepal.
 
  TRAVELLERS
 This biker group comprises seven engineers — Jay Dave, Anurag Vaidya, Nitin Shinde, Mikhil Bhavsar, Tushar Shinde, Ganesh Khandbhale, Sagar Bodake. Always looking for an excuse to get out of their busy schedule, their holidays are reserved for expeditions. They have covered thousands of kilometres on their bikes exploring the mountainous terrains of Leh, Ladakh and the northeast. “For us, travelling is religion. It gratifies our soul, it has given our life a new meaning and we love exploring virgin locales,” said Nitin.
 
 SHAHID AND GROUP
 This group has more than 40 riders from various walks of life. Travelling across the towering mountains in the north to visiting the remotest corners of India, this biker gang has spent nights and days on their bikes. For them, admiring nature and visiting new places are more than mere passion. “The cultural magnificence and living standards of people change as we traverse cities. “For us, life is all about riding and exploring various cultures, languages and lifestyle of people,” said Shahid Khan, a riding enthusiast. Not just India, these guys have also covered boundaries of Nepal and Bhutan.
 
 HEAVEN’S HIGHNESS
 These passion-driven youngsters have already covered the rough terrains of the Himalayas. For them, safety during travel is of utmost importance and they are well equipped with travel gears. The group has four members — Aashish Aman, Sandeep Arya, Rahul Kumar and Raj Kumar Singh — who believe in enjoying every moment. “Earlier, I used to travel alone. But when I met others, we found a great connection and that was our love for riding. Hence, we formed this group,” said Aashish, an engineering student. They go on small trips during their college vacations and keep exploring nearby destinations from   on weekends. “We love gorging on food from these highway dhabas and like interacting with new people,” Aashish added.
 
 TORQUE MASTERS
 They are the travel junkies of Patna, who spend their weekends travelling around Bihar and its bordering areas. Kislay Kant, Dharmendra Singh, Shishir Vats, Rishav Ranjan, Vishal Mishra, Dr Rajneesh and Prashant have covered almost every corner of the state. “Our Sundays are reserved for travelling around the countryside and making some unforgettable memories with friends. Riding bikes gives us a high, and we are never tired or exhausted,” said Kislay, a city-based businessman.
 
 -Saurav Singh and Srishti Swaroop
 
