JAIPUR: The state is vulnerable to Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF), commonly known as  , as blood samples drawn from animals in the state tested positive for   virus immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies.

 Neighbouring state   has reported the CCHF cases sporadically indicating the health authorities of the state to remain alert on the disease.
 
 Now, NIV officials, including NIV director DT Mourya, have reached the city to sensitise doctors on management of CCHF cases and prevention of nosocomial spread along with other related issues. 
 
 The   (NIV) informed the state that seropositivity of CCHF among livestock has been reported from the state. The NIV had conducted the serosurvey to analyse the risk of spread of the disease in the state. However, the last case of CCHF was reported two years ago in Jodhpur.
 
 “Since cattle such as sheep, goats and also bovines in the state tested positive for CCHF antibodies. Cases of CCHF have not been reported much in the state. Last case that was reported from Jodhpur was three years ago. But, NIV had conducted a serosurvey of animals and in which they found antibodies of CCHF, which is why, the NIV officials have reached Jaipur to conduct a workshop of doctors covering different aspect of CCHF. In CCHF, there is high risk of death,” said Dr Bharti Malhotra, senior professor (microbiology),  . 
 
 In 2015, a patient with   fever was admitted to a private hospital, in the same hospital, some nurses also fell ill with the same symptoms. In Congo fever, there are high chances of its nosocomial spread. 
 
 SMS medical college senior microbiologist, Dr RK Maheshwari said, “The ongoing workshop by NIV will help the doctors in periphery (especially in rural areas), who provide the treatment to patients, in getting aware on CCHF. The aim of the workshop is to generate more awareness as NIV has found seropositivity of CCHF among animals.” 
 
 The NIV will make doctors aware on CCHF and biorisk mitigation in handling infectious materials in laboratories and hospital settings. 
 
 
 
