KOLKATA: Independent candidates, not opposition party candidates, have made the most of the four-hour window provided by the   on Monday to file nominations afresh.

 
 Trailing only BJP — who have emerged as the primary contender to the ruling   if nomination figures are any indication — Independent candidates have ever outnumbered the primary opposition parties — CPM and Congress. Independents are often popped up by political parties as a safeguard against any cancellation of nominations and many tend to withdraw their nominations later.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 For example, when opposition candidates were battling it out on the streets to file their nominations, 865 Independents filed their nominations for gram panchayats, 246 for panchayat samitis and 45 for zilla parishads. Only BJP has been able to file nominations for more candidates on Monday. They filed 1077 nominations for gram panchayats on Monday; another 339 for panchayat samitis and 71for zilla parishads.
 
 Numbers released by the SEC on the final nomination figures also indicate that in the first week of nominations (April 2 to April 9), BJP had filed on an average 3945.5 nominations every day. But on Monday, it could file only a third of that. If CPM could file 2449.2 nominations on an average before, on Monday it could only file nominations for 759-gram panchayat seats.
 
 Percentage-wise in April 2-7 phase, BJP could file nominations in 57% of the gram panchayats and 66% of the panchayat samiti seats, after April 23 there was an one percent increase in its nomination in the gram panchayat and two percent rise in panchayat samiti seats.
 
 The   on Tuesday dismissed the twin petitions filed by BJP and Congress challenging the SEC’s April 21 notification which among others allowed for the April 23 nomination window. The Congress and BJP had questioned the notification because such a notification should also have specified the poll dates which it didn’t. The HC, however, refused to interfere into the poll process. The Congress had indicated that it may challenge this order before the division bench. The nomination figures released by the SEC on Tuesday, however, can only be indicative.
 
 CM   said, “The opposition has filed more than 2 lakh nominations so far. Had we stopped them, it would not have been possible. It is true that CPM’s nomination has come down from around 56,000 and there is a significant gain in nomination filed by the BJP.” She added, “Pictures of violence are mostly concocted. So far, we have lost four supporters in Suri, Sandeshkhali, Swarupnagar and Dinhata. We do not want any violence but the opposition have become united in trying to malign the state’s image. We have reports that goons were hired from Jharkhand. They are moving the court everyday and the poll process is getting delayed.”
 
 BJP president Dilip Ghosh said so far around 38,000 party workers could file nominations.
 
