HYDERABAD: Wary about the fact that its moves have fallen flat in stopping the rampant   who construct additional floors or deviate from the sanctioned plan,   has asked the state government to decrease the lower limit of the mortgage clause and the mandatory occupancy certificate (OC) from the present 200 square metres to 100 square metres.

 
  
 
 Chief city planner, GHMC, S Devender Reddy confirmed that   resort to massive violations while constructing structures in below 200 square metre area. “We have come across instances of massive violations in the construction of buildings in an area of under 200 sq metre since the builders need not mortgage a part of the building. Securing OC is also easy. To put an end to this, we are proposing to bring in the ambit of the mortgage clause and OC for buildings constructed in an area of below 100 square metres.”
 
 According to the mortgage clause, builders have to mortgage 10 per cent of the built-up area of the building constructed in an area of 200 square metres and above.
 
 The GHMC has found that around 40 per cent of the builders who construct apartments and individual owners in above 200 square metres are deviating by 10 per cent and are compounded for the same and let off after payment of a certain fee. “When we inspect those constructions including apartments and individual houses in the land area of above 200 square metres before giving OC and find that the deviation is less than 10 per cent, they are compounded. But if the deviation is more like they have constructed an additional floor or additional rooms and or there are violations in the setbacks, we are not giving the OC and the builder will have to apply again after demolishing the additional floors and rooms. In case of apartments, if people are already living in it with without securing the OC, they will have to pay three times more current bills, two times more water charges and other taxes,” said Devender Reddy.
 
 “Every year, we issue 8,000 building permission out of which 6,000 are below 200 square yards,” said Devender. GHMC has received 2,426 applications online out of which 236 are pending. “We have given OC for 1,497 applications either without deviation or with compounding. At least 281 applications have been rejected as the deviation is more than 10 per cent,” he said.
 
