In recent times, several movies have faced obstacles because of the nature of their content. ' ', 'Aiyaary' and ' ' are a few examples of films that landed in trouble prior to release because of the subjects on which they were based. The controversies that these movies courted and the protests that followed have rattled Bollywood filmmakers so much that many have now begun to choose their projects carefully, to avoid running into deeper problems at a later stage.

 Director Sanjay Gupta’s case is a classic example. The filmmaker spent close to two years researching on a film, which was based on the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi, but was forced to put it in on the back-burner. 
 
 When BT met Sanjay and asked him about it, he said, “Our idea was to explore everything that happened around Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination, the skeletons that tumbled out and why information on interrogation in the case is classified, even 64 years after it was conducted. It was not about Gandhiji or Nathuram Godse, my film was titled 'Killing Mahatma Gandhi'. The A-list actor whom I had signed to play Nathuram told me, ‘Sanjay, you are so passionate about this project and you will make a good film, but kya isko lagne denge theatre mein? What’s the point of making it?’ After several discussions, we decided to put it on the back burner. So yes, I feel choked and stifled as a creative person, and there is nothing one can do about it.”
 
 He added, “I’ve spent a few years working on this project. It’s ambitious and close to my heart. My team and I have put tremendous amount of research into it. We were that close to taking it on floors with an A-list actor, which is the reason I didn’t do anything else, all of last year. I was aiming to start this project which I had to drop, after observing what is happening to filmmakers currently. In the current scenario, I know that my project will not see the light of day, but I will make it someday.”
 
 Most celebrities in current times have refrained from openly commenting for or against something that affects a fraternity member. A recent example was  , who didn’t see too many members from the industry voicing their support for him, during the 'Padmaavat' controversy.  , who was once extremely vocal on social media, believes that as a member of society and also as a celebrity, saying something is perceived as either you are for the power corridors or against them.
 
 He elaborates, “There’s a reason I try not to voice my opinion anymore. I have almost stopped doing it. I don’t want anything I say to be misconstrued and used against me at some point. I have to look after my interests. I don’t want my kids’ interests to be jeopardised either. So, I have put a gag order on myself for what I speak up for. There are many people like me, I am sure, who practise this. People who have nothing to lose will continue to shoot their mouth off. There’s so much happening in the country that angers me, but what can anyone do? 'Padmaavat' was entirely about Rajput glory and see what it went through… the lack of unity within the fraternity to call out the wrong is what saddens me the most.”
 
 
 
 
