BENGALURU: The 55-hour tenure of BJP state president B S   is just another aberration in Karnataka's 35-year-old record: the state is mostly ruled by a party that is in the opposition at the Centre.

 
 With the exit of Yeddyurappa and the imminent ascension to power of the Congress-JD(S) combine, things are back to square one. Karnataka will be ruled by a combine that is in opposition at the Centre, and the BJP, heading the ruling coalition in New Delhi, will be sitting in the opposition in Bengaluru.
 
 
 
 
 Since 1983, when Ramakrishna Hegde formed the first non-Congress government in the state, Karnataka has always proved that it swims against the national current. When Hegde's Janata Party came to power, Congress was the ruling party at the Centre.
 
  
  
 
 When the Janata Dal gave way to Congress in Vidhana Soudha in 1989, the National Front led by Janata Dal's V P Singh assumed power in New Delhi.
 
 The exceptions have been brief, like in 2013, when Congress   Siddaramaiah was sworn in and UPA was in power, or when the United Front under H D Deve Gowda was ruling the nation, and Janata Dal's J H Patel was ruling the state.
 
  
  
 
 Perhaps the closest effort made by any party to retain power in Karnataka and Centre at the same time was by the Congress in 2004, and the BJP in 2018.
 
 Congress chief minister S M Krishna, who was in power from 1999 to 2004, when the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA was ruling at the Centre, advanced elections by six months, sensing a wave in favour of the Congress at the national level. However, Krishna failed to attain a majority and a coalition government of Congress and JD(S) came to power, but did not last long.
 
  
  
 
 A similar situation appeared to be in the making this time too. The BJP's PM Narendra Modi and party national president Amit Shah tried to whip up a wave in favour of their saffron party, and repeatedly reminded the voters of the advantages of having the state ruled by the party that was in power at the Centre too.
 
 The party fell just short of forming a stable government. The resignation of Yeddyurappa suggested yet again that Karnataka "remains awake when the nation sleeps", according to one political analyst.
 
 Interestingly, political analyst Sandeep Shastri cited the fractured mandate of 2018 as being "difficult to analyse".
 
 He said the May 12 results definitely reflected that it was anti-Congress but it was not pro-BJP, thereby making it difficult to take a stance on which way Karnataka was tilting. "But it certainly indicates that in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Karnataka will vote individuals who should be in power rather than a party," he said.
 
