Panaji: Midfielder   was one of the most sought-after players some years ago and has rediscovered form this season with   after winning the Goa Pro League and the Goa Police Cup.
 
  The 23-year-old winger from   wants to stay focused and hopes to get a break in the fifth edition of the Indian Super League (ISL).
  
  “This season with Sporting has been really good for me. I got to play a lot more at the end of the season and we won two trophies. I thank our coach Mateus Costa, owner Peter Vaz, goalkeeping coach Seby Noronha and the entire team for believing in me. Now my aim is to play in the ISL and get a call up to the national team,” said Alesh on Sunday.
  
  The implementation of the Under-23 rule in the I-League has benefitted many youngsters who have now become household names in Indian football. While some teams have exploited the system and substituted juniors early on in the game, it has helped many like Alesh.
  
  “The rule came as a blessing to me and many other youngsters,” said Alesh, who won the I-League in his debut season in 2012-13 with Churchill Bros SC.
  
  The speedy winger was just 19 years old when he made his mark after impressing in the Goa Pro League with Calangute Association. The   ( ) product even won the Federation Cup with   the following season.
  
  Hopes were high when he was called up for the U-23 national camp and even played three unofficial friendlies. Alesh’s career was progressing just as Mandar Rao Desai and Romeo Fernandes’ but an ankle injury on his right leg left him devastated. Although Alesh signed for Dempo SC, he suffered from chicken pox and his team eventually got relegated.
  
  In 2015-16, Alesh had to start all over again with Salgaocar FC and made nine appearances. “It was tough at Salgaocar because of the competition with players like Jackichand Singh but I always believed in myself. Next season I moved to FC Bardez and it was a fantastic season in the Goa league and I regained confidence,” said Alesh.
  
  The free-kick specialist believes there is no off season and trains individually at the Siolim ground or nearby beaches to remain a notch above the rest.
  
  “There is no shortcut to success. I hope there is a bigger opportunity for me next season,” said Alesh.
  
  
  
  
