PATNA: State building construction department has asked occupants of all old and dilapidated government quarters at   to vacate the premises by January 31 in order to pave way for construction of the proposed multi-storied residential and non-residential buildings.

 Notices have been issued to 173 existing allottees – all state government employees – and they have been informed that demolition of the old quarters will start soon. The parent departments of the occupants have also been asked to initiate departmental inquiry against their employees if they do not vacate the premises at the earliest.
 
 Nearly 200 government staff quarters, constructed at Gardanibagh between 1920s and 1930s, have been found unsafe for inhabitation. Accordingly, the state cabinet headed by chief minister  , gave its nod to the master plan for construction of ultramodern multi-storied residential and non-residential buildings at Gardanibagh on January 2.
 
 The master plan envisages construction of multi-storied residential buildings for judicial officers and administrative officers on 14.5 acres and 13.16 acres of land, respectively, by razing the existing dilapidated government quarters.
 
 Senior building construction department officials said difficulties were being faced in execution of the ambitious project owing to reluctance of the existing allottees to vacate the old quarters. Incidentally, 83 existing allottees have requested the state government to allow them to stay in their respective quarters till their retirement.
 
 “Based on photography and site inspection, it has been found that none of the existing quarters are safe for inhabitation. Accordingly, all 173 existing allottees have been asked to vacate the quarters at the earliest. They can take house rent allowance as per government norms,” said a senior official. 
 
 The master plan for redevelopment of Gardanibagh area envisages development of multi-storied apartments and civic amenities over an area of 278.03 acres. Altogether 1,184 flats are proposed to be constructed in multi-storied apartments for grade III and IV employees and another 752 flats for officials. Besides, 20 residential units each are proposed to be constructed for ministers and judges.
 
 The master plan also envisages construction of non-residential buildings, which would house several offices of central and state governments, such as Information Commission, Lokayukta, Human Rights Commission and   Directorate, among others.
 
 Apart from government offices, the new urban centre will also have hospital, hotel, business centre, textile centre, parks, playground, parking facility and other amenities. 
 
 
