CHANDIGARH: Visibly upset over the ‘highly questionable conduct’ of special investigation team (SIT) of Chandigarh Police, probing the case relating to the leakage of   judicial services examination papers, the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday directed the Chandigarh DGP to appear before it on Thursday.

 The court, during the resumed hearing of the case, observed that the investigating team of the Chandigarh police was hoodwinking the HC bench.
 
 Upset that the SIT had not observed any manual during the course of investigation –which is directly being monitored by the HC – a full bench comprising Justice  , Justice   and   said, the investigation team should have adopted some manual.
 
 “The accused has made you the accused. He is getting statement after statement and the police are defenceless. All your channels will be closed by him and you are happy. He is behind bars and has put the investigating agency in the dock. We also want to know under whose influence is the SIT? The call details of SIT members are monitored by an accused. We have not seen such a thing. It is putting chillies in our eyes. But we will not close it,” observed the bench.
 
 Bench also observed that the SIT should have filed an application when the accused had approached the trial court seeking call details of the SIT members. “Were you sleeping at that time?” asked the bench.
 
 These observations were made by the bench on the failure of the SIT to apprise the court about the reasons behind its failure to challenge the orders of the trial court in which SIT was directed to share the statements of the witnesses, recorded under Section 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), with the accused.
 
 On the previous date of hearing on May 11, the bench had observed that the SIT has apparently “connived” with the accused involved in the scam.
 
 The HC was upset over the manner in which the SIT had shared the statements of witnesses recorded under Section 164 of CrPC to the accused on directions of the trial court without filing any appeal against such orders before the high court.
 
 
