KOCHI/THIRUVNANTHPURAM: The Indian meteorological department ( ) officially declared the arrival of southwest   on Tuesday. The monsoon has advanced into most parts of the state, some parts of Tamil Nadu and more parts of southwest, central and northeast Bay of Bengal. 

 
 The IMD informed that the monsoon arrived three days ahead of its normal date and the onset was declared as there was widespread rainfall over   during the past three-four days. The 14 rainfall monitoring stations for monsoon onset over Kerala have reported more than 60% rainfall from May 25.
 
 A well-marked low pressure area lies over southeast and adjoining east central Arabian Sea off north Kerala-Karnataka coasts and another low pressure area lies over east central and adjoining northeast Bay of Bengal, which is likely to develop into depression and further advance during next 48 hours.
 
 All conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some parts of central Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Kerala, some parts of coastal and south interior Karnataka, some more parts of eastcentral and northeast Bay of Bengal, and some parts of north eastern states during next 48 hours.
 
 Rain occurred at most places in Lakshadweep also. Heavy to very heavy rainfall were reported from various parts of the state with Ponnani (Malappuram) recording 16cm of rain. Peermade (Idukki) got 12cm rain and 9cm rain was reported from   (Kottayam) and   (Kozhikode). Around 7cm rain was reported from Vellanikkara (Thrissur) and Thodupuzha (Idukki). 
 
 Heavy to very heavy rains are set to lash parts of Kerala till Thursday, followed by thundershowers in parts of the state till June 2. Strong winds, rough sea and high waves will lead to coastal erosion, flash floods, landslides and debris flows in coastal areas of the state, warned disaster management officials. 
 
 Due to coastal erosion, order has been issued by district disaster management authority chairman K Vasuki to prohibit entry of the public and tourists to Sanghumugham beach from 5pm on Tuesday and directed the assistant commissioner of police Sanghumugham sub-division to ensure strict surveillance along the beach to ensure the compliance.
 
  IMD, Kerala state disaster management authority (KSDMA) and Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (Incois) had warned of rough seas and high waves along Kerala coast. KSDMA has also sounded a high alert advising the maritime ports in Kerala to hoist cautionary Signal 3, which warns of adverse weather conditions with gusty winds and high waves.
 
 Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea.
 
 
