JODHPUR: Vice-chancellor of   (JNVU) and the state government seem to be at loggerheads over the recruitment of teachers.

 In spite of directions from the state government and higher education minister, the vice-chancellor has gone ahead with declaring names of two teachers for geography and three for music.
 
 This has allegedly been despite the dissent of four syndicate members, including MLAs Pabbaram Bishnoi and Arjun Lal Garg, who had complained to chief minister   about the ongoing teachers’ recruitment.
 
 When asked, vice-chancellor R P Singh said, he has followed directions from the Raj Bhawan in proceeding to open the envelops bearing names of five lecturers.
 
 On the same day of Raje’s visit to Jodhpur, Singh declared the five names at a syndicate meeting, allegedly overlooking calls from the district magistrate and higher education minister Kiran Maheshwari asking him not to open the envelopes of interviews.
 
 Both the MLAs and the other two syndicate members have been opposing the recruitment, alleging irregularities in the process. The vice-chancellor, however, continued with the process citing directions from Raj Bhawan to fill vacant posts of teachers as soon as possible.
 
 Not only this, Singh has even removed the two dissenting Syndicate members and has replaced them with other two members. The two MLAs have been sticking to their stand of dissent, raising the issue with the government.
 
 Already facing charges of irregularities in teachers’ recruitment during the previous   government, the university has hit hornets’ nest in carrying out a fresh recruitment drive to fill 106 posts of teachers in engineering faculty, 63 in other faculties and 34 non-academic posts. 
 
 The post of registrar is being held by a professor of the university allegedly against the rules. The university has not been having a permanent registrar for past 10 months. “I have been regularly pursuing the issue with the government for the appointment of a permanent registrar. On Monday also, I visited Jaipur for the same purpose,” Singh said.
 
 
