NEW DELHI: The strike called by resident doctors at   didn't deter the hospital's doctors from taking up a unique challenge on Friday - conducting three simultaneous transplants. 

 The family of an 18-year-old boy who was declared brain dead offered to donate his organs on Friday afternoon. By evening, his heart, liver, two kidneys, bones and the corneas were retrieved. 
 
 In spite of the ongoing strike, faculty members arranged resources to ensure that the organs were transplanted to the patients on the wait list.
 
 "Around 50-60 doctors are working on the transplants being carried out under different departments, including cardiac surgery, nephrology and gastrointestinal surgery," said Dr Aarti Vij, head of the institute's   ( ). She added that the transplant surgeries may go on till midnight.
 
 The doctors said Arjun, the only son of  , had met with a road traffic accident and was admitted to the AIIMS Trauma Centre on Thursday. The Class XI student was declared brain dead on Friday, after which the trauma nurse coordinators and the neurosurgeons counselled his family to donate the organs. "His father gave consent and the mother signed as witness," said a senior doctor.
 
  TOI spoke to  , who works in   House. He said he decided to donate all the organs of his son so that other lives could be saved. "In India, the organ donation rate is very low. I salute this family who put aside their grief of losing their only son and decided to donate his organs," said a transplant surgeon, adding that there was no way they would let the organs go waste due to the strike. In fact, the surgeon said, some of the resident doctors also helped in carrying out the transplants. 
 
 The recipients are believed to be mostly young patients. "One of the patients, who is undergoing liver transplant, is in his 20s. Even the one undergoing a heart transplant is a young patient and was listed for transplant two days ago. He is lucky to have received a heart so soon," a source said. The donor's bones and corneas have been preserved at AIIMS for future use. "One kidney has been sent to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital," said a senior doctor.
 
 On April 9, AIIMS had successfully carried out a heart transplant in a 24-year-old patient. The donor was a 23-year-old girl declared brain dead after an accident in Jaipur.
 
 
