Chennai: Tamil Nadu’s dented image as an investment destination may take a further hit, with a series of agitations rocking the state in recent weeks. Apart from the ongoing Cauvery row that has left a dent on the law and order record, owing to fringe elements wresting control, opposition for major projects like the neutrino, Kovalam port and Sterlite expansion is gaining momentum. 

 Next on the hit list, as per intelligence reports, is the Chennai-Salem Green Express Corridor, a pet project of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The Centre is favourably disposed towards implementing the project worth Rs 10,000 crore. It will take a new alignment cutting across Harur and Tiruvannamalai, instead of the regular routes via Ulundurpet and Athur and another via Krishnagiri.
 
 A senior bureaucrat said many industries were talking to Tamil Nadu government, but were showing more interest in investing in Andhra Pradesh. “South Korean car maker Kia’s case is a telling example. We invited Kia officials for discussion and our industries minister even made an announcement in the assembly that Tamil Nadu would give adequate land for the project near Cheyyar in Kancheepuram district. But AP managed to clinch the deal. The situation has only deteriorated in recent months. If investments had taken a beating in AP, especially Hyderabad, during the Telangana agitations, today, Tamil Nadu is facing the same situation owing to a series of agitations here,” he said.
 
 CII Chennai president M Ponnusami, however, feels the ongoing agitations are yet to take a toll. “Every state faces such agitations. They do not affect investments,” he said, but also cautioned, “If these agitations continue longer, the state will suffer.” M Velmurugan, executive vice chairman, Tamil Nadu Industrial Guidance & Export Promotion Bureau, said, “There has been a regular stream of visitors representing investors, looking for guidance for investing in Tamil Nadu. I have just returned from Dubai, where we conducted a 3-day road show on the opportunities in TN. They are showing keen interest in investing.”
 
 
