KOLKATA: A Class-XII student from Sonarpur was allegedly raped by at least three youths, two of them her friends, in a house at  , Narendrapur, on Tuesday evening. The minor rape survivor’s relatives claimed the accused tried to murder her after committing the crime and would have succeeded had the uncle of one of them not returned home early.

 All the three accused have been arrested.
 
 
  
  
 
 The girl was at their Manikpur home, preparing to leave for her tuition class, when she received a call around 4pm on Tuesday, her sister claimed. She left hurriedly without informing anybody about her destination. “Around 7pm, we received an anonymous call, informing us that she had met with an accident. The caller directed us to a house at Rathtala. We found her in an unconscious state there. She had bloodstains on her nose, feet and hands and bore multiple scratch marks. An attempt was clearly made to kill her,” the sister claimed.
 
 The Sonarpur police have learnt the rape survivor received a call from her friend, Arghya Das (21), inviting her to a get-together. She didn’t suspect anything amiss as the party was being held at another friend Utpal Gayen’s uncle’s house. When she reached there, she found an unknown youth, who was introduced as Tamojit Mitra, Das and Gayen’s friend. “The girl was apparently offered a soft drink, while the others had liquor. She was told more girls would arrive. The   seemed to have been laced with some intoxicant. On having a few sips, she fell unconscious. The three then raped her,” a police officer said. “Just before 7 pm, Gayen’s uncle returned home and rang the doorbell. As Gayen was certain his uncle would return later, he had stepped out to fetch cigarettes.”
 
 On hearing the bell ring several times, Mitra—who did not know Gayen’s uncle—opened the door and asked who he was. On realizing their game was up, he reportedly fled. Gayen’s uncle entered the bedroom to see the set-up of a booze party. He stepped into the attached bathroom to find the victim lying on the floor, her feet tied with her dupatta, said the police, adding he checked the girl’s mobile and retrieved the number of a family member. He was the one to call up her family.
 
 “We rushed my sister to hospital,” the girl’s sister said. “This was a premeditated crime. After the abuse, they changed my sister’s clothes to destroy evidence. The police found glasses, empty liquor bottles and also a portion of the drink that my sister had.” Das, Gayen and Mitra have been arrested.
 
