KOTTAYAM:  's cousin   said that the gang was offered Rs 1.5 lakh to bring   alive in front of Neenu's father Chacko in Thenmala. Recalling the horrors of last Sunday, Aneesh said that he overheard the men talking about the quotation rate while they were being taken to Thenmala. 

 
  The gang was supposed to take Kevin to an isolated under-construction building in Vellimala. The five men in the car were assaulting Aneesh on the way while talking. Aneesh and Kevin were not told about the destination; Aneesh was taken in an Innova while Kevin was forced into another car. The third car followed them. Aneesh only remembers crossing Mannanam Church junction. In between he heard the driver being asked to follow signboards to Punalur. 
 
 “I also heard them discussing the speed, we were going at 100-120km/hr. They wantedtoknowwhereNeenu was staying. Half-an-hour later, I heard them saying we had reached Thiruvalla. A little while, I heard them saying about Pathanapuram. I was continuously beaten by the men sitting on either side,” he said After some more time, I was about to vomit and asked them to stop the vehicle. From their conversation, I knew we had reached Thenmala. There was another car behind us. As I got out, I saw two persons lifting Kevin from the backseat and laying him on the road, said Aneesh.
 
 He added that as he was about to fall, somebody took him inside the other car. He regained conscience when car stopped at a petrol pump. “I realized it was morning and I was in a Wagon R driven by Shanu and the Innova was parked nearby. Shanu told me Kevin had escaped and that he would give Rs 50,000 for the damages at my home. He took down my bank account number. When the vehicle reached Pathanapuram, Shanu agreed to pay the taxi fare to get me home,” said Aneesh.
 
 At this time Shanu received a call and Aneesh deduced that it was the police asking him to return Kevin and Aneesh. Shanu replied that Kevin had escaped and Aneesh was with him. The person asked him to bring Aneesh to Gandhinagar station. “We went to a house in Punalur where Shanu and others took a bath. I was asked to wash my face and have tea, I refused. Soon we returned via Pathanapuram from his relative’s home. Before reaching Thiruvalla,hestopped at a bakery andoffered refreshments, said Aneesh.
 
 Once the car reached Gandhinagar Junction, Shanu asked me to go to the station in an auto. Once I reached the station, I found the Innova there. As I entered the station, the SI was not ready to talk to me initially. Later he asked me to give a statement and leave. he said.
 
 
