The Tamil film industry is going through one of its worst phases. While it is all glitz and glamour on the outside, it is a struggle inside with financial loss and politics involved. The dispute between the   and the   (DSPs) has no immediate solution in sight and it may be a waiting game for another month, with regular movie-goers having to make do with other language movies. But, who will blink first is the question. 

 S R Prabhu, treasurer of   (TFPC) and a leading producer says   owners have got into a wrong agreement with DSPs and fallen into a trap and that the producers are not at fault. "They along with digital service provider Qube are minting money in the form of car park, cafeteria and online ticketing platforms. It is the producers who are left in the lurch. The profits they earn through these ways are not shared with us. How can they expect us to cut down on actors’ remuneration and production costs when they continue to flourish? Profits have to be a two-way street for the industry to survive," he said. 
 
 He says the theatre owners are trying to bring in a system which is not in the traditional format. "How do they expect the actors to reduce their salary suddenly? Even if they agree to do so, the cleansing process cannot happen overnight."
 
 Actor, producer Cheran says people with ego can never find a solution. If someone questions the producers’ council, they get suspended. Everyone wants an early solution but sadly those in power seem to be dragging the issue. "Cinema is always dominated by those who have money, but for it to survive compromises have to be made from both sides. Online ticket revenue should go to producers or at least the theatre owners should share the profits."
 
 Qube, in a letter addressed to theatre owners, producers and distributors on March 12 had requested them not to stop releases of films and reopen theatres, offering discounts on virtual print fee (VPF).
 
 Tiruppur K Subramaniam, joint president of the joint action committee formed by theatre owners in TN says the association is going ahead with the strike from March 16, demanding waiving of Entertainment Tax. "We have sought time for a meeting with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to discuss our problems. But, it is for the producers and digital service providers to sort out their issue. The summer (holidays) is still one month away," he said.
 
 Abirami S Ramanathan, president, Tamil Nadu exhibitors’ association says: "There are about 147 theatres in the region. At a meeting of representatives of all city theatres in Chennai on Wednesday, we decided not to join the producer’s strike (March 16) call and our theatres will continue to run shows. With TFPC deciding against releasing new Tamil films, we will continue to operate the theatres with English, Hindi and Telugu films, besides old Tamil films."
 
 Saddled with GST burden and coupled with theatre owners’ issue, a producer who did not want to be named, says he has lost the will to make movies. He says he prefers to direct or act because the risk is less. "These theatre owners have killed the spirit of the industry. Movie-making is an art. But if we have to worry about the content reaching the masses, the business per say is a waste of time," he said. 
 
 K Rajan, veteran film producer and a former office-bearer of TFPC feels it has always been a bad bargain for producers. "Those who directed and produced movies in the 1980s and 1990s will never venture to make movies today. That is the current situation of the industry. My question is if you don’t have the content, what will you do? How long can you run your shows with Bollywood and Hollywood movies," asks Rajan. 
 
 When asked why they can’t rope in veterans like Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth to arrive at a solution, he says they have never been forthcoming to solve industry woes. "How can they solve people’s problems as politicians when they can’t set the industry, which gave them everything, in order?" he said. 
 
 Cheran rules out any possibilities of a legal solution and says all theatres instead should bring in computerised booking format for corruption to end. "There should accountability and transparency. If we take the legal route, then everything will go out of hand," he said.
 
 Producer G Dhananjayan says theatre owners have to align with producers for the industry to thrive. "They should bring down the ticket prices, as the footfall of audiences has reduced by 25%- 30%. People will resort to other means like online viewing. The ball is in their court. Let’s see what they can do with no local content," he said.
 
 (With inputs from D Govardan)
 
 
