Though Mahametro is yet to finalize the detailed project report (DPR) for Metro Rail phase-II (worth around Rs10,000 crore), former mayor and corporator Pravin Datke, who coordinates with Union minister Nitin Gadkari for city’s infrastructure projects, said a formal announcement is likely in the budget.  “Mahametro has prepared a tentative DPR of phase-II which will be present ed on February 3. Phase-II is very crucial as it make travelling to the outskirts faster,” he said. Also, Mahametro has sought funds of Rs2,100 crore for Metro Rail in 2018-19. “This will be a very important fiscal for Metro Rail as we have to complete works on two corridors and launch commercial operation. Flow of funds is very important to maintain the project’s momentum,” an official said. Datke added that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is likely to get approval for the Nag river rejuvenation and beautification plans. “Long-term loans from Japan International Cooperation Agency (long term of Rs1,252.33 crore) and AFD France Rs1,054.58 crore of the total estimate of Rs1,600 crore is assured. The Centre will bear 60% cost of these two projects. The two plans may not feature directly in the budget but is likely to be approved in heads/schemes related to water bodies conservation,” he said. An NMC official said a proposal seeking funds of Rs120 crore — Rs105 crore for procurement of electric-run buses and Rs15 crore for setting up charging stations — has been submitted to the ministry of heavy industries and is likely to be passed in the budget. “The fate of the proposal will depend on funds allocated for ministry of heavy industries’ FAME India Scheme (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid & Electric Vehicles in India),” he said. Gadkari had proposed three projects — inter model station (IMS) at Ajni, logistic hub at Khapri at an estimated cost of Rs1,400 crore and Nagpur-Hyderabad-Bengaluru Expressway at Rs35,000 crore under the Bharat Mala Project. It remains to be seen how the much money is allocated to the project. The NMC had got approval for projects worth around Rs4,200 crore under the centre’s Smart City Mission, Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) and Swachh Bharat Mission. Works on these projects are likely to begin from the coming fiscal. Therefore, annual allocation of funds for these schemes will be vital for the city. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started works on various developmental projects — Outer Ring Road, flyovers at Pardi, Sadar, railway over bridge at Chinchbhuvan. Works on few more projects like cement concrete of Kamptee road, two railway under bridges in East Nagpur, flyover in Mahal, on Amravati road etc are likely to begin. All these projects will have no hurdles if ministry of road transport and highways under Gadkari gets sufficient funds from budget. City wish list Nagpur-Hyderabad-Bengaluru Expressway at the cost of Rs35,000 crore Metro Rail phase-II costing around Rs10,000 crore Nag river rejuvenation and beautification plans of around Rs2,852 crore Inter model station at Ajni and logistic hub at Khapri at an estimated cost of Rs1,400 crore Electric-run city buses and charging stations at Rs120 crore cost Annual allocation for projects under Smart City Mission, Swachh Bharat Mission, AMRUT, NHAI projects Funds of Rs50 crore for laying pipeline from Bhandewadi sewage treatment plant to NTPC Mauda thermal power station