NEW DELHI: After keeping them pending for over one-and-a-half years, the   has finally come out with draft rules to utilise around Rs 50,000 crore   for increasing green cover and strengthening conservation measures in the country.

 
 The fund is the accumulated amount of money which user agencies had deposited as compensation for diverting forest land for non-forest purposes, including industries and infrastructure, over the years.
 
 The draft rules, notified by the environment ministry on Friday, specify that 80% of compensatory afforestation (CA) amount will be utilised by states for plantations, assisted natural regeneration of forests, forest fire prevention and improvement of   among others in the list of 12 permissible activities while the remaining 20% will be used for 10 listed works to strengthen forest and wildlife related infrastructure.
 
 The rules will come into force 30 days after the notification. Stakeholders, in the meantime, can send their objections and suggestions on the draft to the ministry.
 
 Though the law—Compensatory Afforestation Fund (CAF) Act—to utilise the money was passed by the Parliament in July 2016, it could not be implemented in absence of enabling rules within the Act. It had led to adhocism in disbursal of funds to states, resulting in transfer of only a small amount (up to 10%) to the states for afforestation and conservation works.
 
 Currently, most of the compensatory funds, amounting to around Rs 50,000 crore, are with the ad hoc Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA). The ad hoc authority was created by an order of the Supreme Court in 2009.
 
 “Draft rules are notified after we finalised the procedures to transfer the fund to states so that it cannot be diverted for other purposes”, said an environment ministry official.
 
 Once the rules come into force next month, the amount will be transferred to the   at Centre and the respective State Compensatory Afforestation Funds in a phased manner, depending on its utilisation. The national and state funds - both non-lapsable - will be governed under the respective general financial rules and utilised for only the activities listed under the  .
 
 The draft rules specify that the listed activities on “forest land” will be taken up in consultation with ‘Gram Sabha’ (village committee) or village forest committee and it’ll be “in consonance with” the provisions of the law to protect the rights of scheduled tribes and traditional forest dwellers.
 
 It also says that the priority to undertake identified activities will be given to those villages which have been affected due to diversion of forest land.
 
 Planting and rejuvenation of forest cover on non-forest land falling in wildlife corridors and relocation of villages from protected areas are also listed as the activities which can be undertaken with the help of CA fund.
 
 The rules also have provisions to make forest bureaucracy accountable for any lapse on the part of state in carrying out compensatory afforestation exercise in a time-bound manner. The officials, posted in national and state authorities, will be required to given annual statements of the works and utilisation of the CA fund.
 
