Kolkata: Indian black  , which was first sourced from China by the erstwhile British planters centuries ago, is winning back its roots with a record jump in exports in 2017.

 The shipment of black tea from India to the Dargonland has taken a big leap last year to 8.3 million kg from 5.5 mkg in 2016, according to the Indian Tea Association (ITA). Only Sri Lanka has beaten India in the Chinese market with an export figure of 9.9 mkg in 2017. India is followed by Kenya (4-5mkg) and Uganda (4-5mkg). China buys a 340 mkg of tea leaves from abroad each year.
 
 Traditionally the biggest producer and consumer of green tea, Chinese people, especially youths, are sipping more black tea imported from India. Witnessing an encouraging export demand from China for the last few years, the Tea Board of India has set a fresh annual export target of 15 mkg by the next couple of years. For this, the Board has been canvassing for inking a preferential trade agreement in tea between China and India.
 
 Tea Board chairman Prabhat Kamal Bezboruah on Thursday told TOI, “China is soon becoming a major export market for black tea. A delegation of Tea Research Association (TRA) would soon visit China to work further on the country’s preference of tea, change in their consumption pattern and leaf-testing parameters. A Tea Board delegation, too, would visit China to bolster the Indian producers’ efforts to grow business there. Bezboruah was speaking on the sidelines of an interactive session with Chinese delegation from Dali, Yunnan Province, China, organised by ICC.
 
 “One area of cooperation that needs to be specially looked into by both the countries is tea trade,” said Chen Jian, secretary of the committee of Communist Party of China (CPC) of Dali, who led the delegation on Thursday.
 
 China produces around 2,600 mkg of tea annually, while India produces around half of that, but both countries should look at complimenting each other's business, added Bezbaruah. “Both the countries should work out a preferential trade agreement over tea so that they have to pay lower duties. India and China were not competitors as far as tea was concerned. This will benefit both,” Bezbaruah said.
 
 Eighty per cent of China’s annual outout is green tea and 18% Oolong variety, while 98% of the beverage produced in India annually is black tea.
 
 However, stricter non-tariff barriers, quarantine parameters and difference in lab testing methods for pesticide and fertilizer residue in tea leaves have posed as a big hurdle for growth in exports for Indian tea producers.
 
 According to Anshuman Kanoria, vice-chairman of Indian Tea Exporters’ Association (ITEA), the export of black tea to China is important for Indian producers as there is an excellent potential for selling Darjeeling, specialty and CTC tea. “Indian exporters value the importance of making repeated marketing attempts, which has resulted in the recent rise in exports. If Chinese quarantine regulation can be well-negotiated, the India’s tea exports to the country could potentially be greater than 20 mkg per annum,” he said. 
 
 Bezbaruah suggested that the two countries should agree on a harmonisation of the maximum residue limits in each other’s tea, making export and import easier.
 
 At the moment, the maximum acceptable limit of pesticide and fertiliser residues in tea is different for the two countries and some harmonization is urgently required for the benefit of trade, as agreed by both sides, added the Tea Board chief. 
 
 As per the latest data, the Union commerce ministry has set a total annual tea export target of 260 mkg by 2019-20 from the current 230 mkg.
 
 
