Nagpur: Winters have become a nightmare for people living near Bhandewadi dumping yard that is repeatedly catching fire since almost a month. The burning of waste is causing excessive air pollution in the area due to which many residents are being reportedly taken ill. The city’s air quality is already in ‘poor’ zone.  According to them, a dense layer of smog engulfs the surrounding areas in the night, making it impossible to breathe. “Though the problem increased with the onset of winter, since last ten days it has turned very severe. When wind direction is towards our locality, thick smoke billowing out of the garbage heap enters our homes causing breathlessness,” said resident Anil Tripathi, who stays about two kilometres from the dumping ground. Being asthmatic, Tripathi’s wife started facing health problems and has shifted to her maternal house. “If the problem continues, we will not be able to live here,” added Tripathi. As evening descends, residents are forced stay inside. “In recent times, the smoke has increased so much that we can’t keep our windows open. Senior citizens have stopped going for evening strolls,” said another resident Rajeev Puri. Apart from difficulty in breathing, residents are also facing irritation in throat and eyes. “A few nights back, our entire house was engulfed in stinking smoke. We just couldn’t breathe,” added Puri. The residents have been making repeated complaints to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). “The pollution level at Deshpande Layout is so bad that even healthy people can’t walk. The air we are breathing is full of smoke. We have complained many times but nothing has improved,” the residents wrote in a recent complaint to municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal. “We are suffering but NMC is not taking any action to control pollution,” they said. NMC officials said they were looking into the matter. “In case a fire breaks out, we are making sure it is doused immediately,” they added. Troubled by the alarming air and water pollution, these residents had knocked the doors of judiciary in 2013. The matter was heard by the Pune bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) that had fined NMC and its contractor Hanjer Biotech Energies with Rs20 lakh each. Creating a buffer no-development zone under the scientific assistance of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) was also directed. Alleging none of the court’s orders were followed, residents are again considering to approach NGT. “We fear continuous exposure to this toxic smoke will have an adverse effect on our health, especially children,” they said. 