GURUGRAM:   officials above the rank of  , and up to chief engineer, will now double up as relationship managers to redress consumers’  .

 Under the initiative, each relationship manager will act as the  , sparing consumers the hassle of visiting SDO offices and moving from one table to another seeking redressal to various problems.
 
 To streamline the entire grievance redressal process, the power discom,  , has worked a well-defined structure based on the connection load.
 
 As per the structure, a junior engineer will address consumers drawing 20-50KW, a subdivision officer will take care of those consuming 50-500 KW and an executive engineer will look into grievances of consumers using 500-2,000KW. Similarly, a superintendent engineer will be the relation manager for those drawing between 2,000KW and 5,000KW while a chief engineer will cater to consumers drawing above 5,000KW.
 
 According to discom officials, the all designated officials began working as ‘relation managers’ from February 1.
 
 “This is a new concept that we are introducing, along with the existing channels of grievance redressal. So, now senior officials have been empowered to look into issues concerning the consumers directly,” said KC Aggarwal, superintendent engineer, new Gurugram circle.
 
 “For consumers’ convenience, we have also created WhatsApp groups. For example, if there are a certain number of consumers with a connection load of 5,000KW, they will have a new channel (a dedicated WhatsApp group) to raise their queries/grievances now,” he added.
 
 Another discom official said they wanted to make the grievance redressal system more streamlined and effective. “With such a system in place, people wouldn’t have to frequent SDO offices,” he added.
 
 Consumers welcomed the move. “It is a good decision. Last month, I had to make so many rounds of the discom office in Sector 31. If we have a system now that puts us in direct contact with senior officials, it will really be very convenient for us. We also hope that our issues are resolved forthwith and in minimum time,” said Sudanshu Yadav, a resident of DLF 3.
 
 
 
