THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As part of strengthening relations with non-resident Keralite (NRK) entrepreneurs, the government will set up an   chamber of commerce, said chief minister   during the concluding session of   ( ). 

 Summing up the various suggestions and ideas that emerged during the two-day meet, the chief minister said that the chamber will be set up for a cluster of nations in a region and steps will be taken to pave a strong relation among members and their counterparts functioning in the state. Additionally, professional bodies comprising professional NRKs will also be set up by which their knowledge will be utilized for the development of state's research and development and industrial bodies.
 
 Vijayan said the government intends to set up a Kerala development fund with aid of NRKs and those - willing to deposit a fixed amount - will be eligible for a job in one of the organizations in the area of their expertise. This initiative will be a new step as a deposit that will ensure a job for an NRK, he added.
 
 The chief minister said a special loan scheme for NRKs - who are willing to launch a business in the state - is in the offing, along with a special agency to exchange ideas with professionals. This process will begin even before they return home with a new initiative. He said that the government will consider a general suggestion that it should provide financial aid to those who lose their lives in foreign countries.
 
 He said that a secretariat system will be set up for LKS to implement all suggestions and ideas that emerged at the meet. Standing committees will be set up for this purpose, Vijayan said.
 
 Meanwhile, inaugurating the valedictory function of LKS, governor   said that the initiative - which provided a common platform for the cultural, socio-political and economic integration of NRKs with the state - is a laudable step. He urged successful NRKs to come forward and be part of the state's dream of creating 10 lakh jobs in information technology, tourism and electronics sectors over the next five years.
 
 The governor also requested Keralites working abroad, in scientific and higher educational organizations, to share their expertise with students and researchers here. "As chancellor of universities in the state, let me assure you the best cooperation to proposals that would provide an international exposure to our university students," he said.
 
 
