Chennai: Laxman Tamant is 90, but he still actively involved in   at his village Rajahar in the Nawalparasi district of Nepal. His village is now a efficient agro model after a government initiative, which declared it as a climate-smart village 2012. But the situation was different five years ago, when agriculture was badly hit by inconsistent rain and the villagers, who were dependent on traditional farming in this rainfed region, suffered huge losses. While the youth eventually left the village in search of better oppurtunities, the fortunes turned with the new system that brought in solar-based irrigation and promoted maintenance of a community seed bank. The villagers today have started cultivating vegetables, mustards and pulses the village. The Nepal model will work in the remote villages of   if implemented properly, says Pramod Agarwal, scientist at South Asian chapter of the Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS), who designed the climate smart village in Rajahar and the villages of Maharashtra, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh.

 Nepal’s agriculture has always been prone to various climatic risk which include droughts, inconsistent rainfalls leading to floods and landslides. It was to find a solution to these issues, the government of Nepal initiated National Climate Change Policy (NCCP) and National Adaptation Programme of Action (NAPA). With the help of CCAFS, the Nepal government started implementing the climate smart agriculture project. The first change was to introduce an alternative to electricity and diesel pumps to lift water from streams, ponds and underground tube wells. The initiative has helped set up 12 solar based irrigation systems in Bardiya, Dang, Nawalparasi and Mahottari districts of Nepal. “We can operate the irrigation system for six hours a day continuously. It has a capacity to lift 1,00,000 litres daily if there is sufficient sunlight. It helped us a lot and today we cultivate mustard and vegetables in our fields,” said Uttam Kumar, a farmer from Rajahar. “The fields where lentils would struggle to survive are now thriving with wheat, lentils and vegetables,” he said. Since 2016, the government of Nepal has been implementing the climate smart village approach as part of the climate adaptation programme in 14 vulnerable districts in seven states. 
 
 Similarly, in India more than 60% farmers are rain-fed smallholders with two hectares or less of land. They are all highly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. Even though many climate-friendly farming methods have been implemented in TN, an initiative like climate smart agriculture is yet to take root. The government’s role is crucial, according to Pramod Agarwal. “Shortage of water is the main problem for farmers in TN. The climate smart agriculture will definitely bear fruit. To begin with, we need to fine-tune the technologies that suit the local environment in the state and supplement them with weather forecast and crop insurance. The project should be linked to state or national policy,” he said.
 
 Experts agree to the fact that climate smart villages would work well in the state if implemented properly. However, they believe that the success of the project will depend on the state government. “Climate smart village is a good idea. It will definitely help the farmers of TN. But the role of the state government is big in implementing such projects. NGOs can only help the government. The funding has to come from the state,” said K Veeramani, a research scholar on environmental science at the Tamil Nadu Agriculture University. 
 
 P Jeganathan, a wildlife and agriculture scientist, said the climate smart village project will help the farmers of TN a lot, as they are facing water shortage in many remote villages of the state. “Any eco-friendly project is welcome. I think the project is suitable for many remote drought-hit villages in TN,” he said. “But at the same time, it should not destroy the existing eco system. If it is going to be implemented keeping in mind the traditional farming practices of that area, it will definitely help,” he said. 
 
 
