MUMBAI: IndiGo grounded three   320neo aircraft on Friday after the European aviation regulator issued an emergency directive.

 A   official said, “While investigation is on to determine the root cause, EASA’s preliminary findings indicated the particular sub-category of PW1100 engines was more susceptible to dual engine failure.” Airbus has also issued an alert to operators of A320 neos, providing instructions to de-pair the affected engines and discontinue operations over routes where the closest runway is more than an hour away.
 
 
  
 
 The DGCA official stressed that the above issue is entirely different from issues of bearing failure and combustion chamber failure experienced initially by PW1100 engines, which, he said, have been addressed.
 
 IndiGo’s instances of single-engine failure in 18 months averaged one a week. However, if one engine fails, a twin engine aircraft like an A320 can safely land with the other operative engine. Yet what was brow-raising was the unprecedented frequency with which these engine failures occurred, a world record, said aviation experts.
 
 In the past three decades, technological advances have made engine failures a rare occurrence, with only about 25 (in multi-engine aircraft) a year worldwide, or one engine failure for every million flights.
 
 Currently, India is the world’s largest operator of A320 neos fitted with the faulty PW 1100 engines. Yet it was only on Friday, after   raised an alarm, that the three A320 neos were grounded. The EASA directive does not call for the grounding of A320neo aircraft in which only one of the two engines belong to the sub-category concerned.
 
 According to a media report, Airbus said there are only 43 engines worldwide of this sub-category. How many of them are with IndiGo is not known. IndiGo did not go into the question. “Airbus and   are working in close cooperation and will be swiftly communicating on the way forward to regain normal operations and resume aircraft deliveries,” said the IndiGo statement, adding that it expects to receive a number of Airbus A320 ceos (current engine option, that is, the old version of A320).
 
 Capt  , an air safety expert, said: “69 engine failures in 18 months is far too high. Worldwide, it is about two engine failures a month. DGCA should have been proactive.”
 
 Pratt and   in a statement said with the support of Airbus, they are in close contact with customers to address the results of the EASA findings. “This issue is isolated to a limited subpopulation of engines,” it said. “We have identified the potentially affected engines and communicated with our customers. As a precaution, aircraft with these engines will be addressed in a manner consistent with the operational instructions issued by Airbus,” it added.
 
