ALWAR: Ahead of   bypolls, chief minister   met unhappy party workers and appealed to them to be united and help the party in winning the election. Polling will be held on January 29. 

 Raje has taken helm of election campaigning in her own hands and is ensuring that nothing goes wrong in the election. She called all unhappy party workers of all four Rajasthan assembly constituencies that fall under   Lok Sabha constituency. 
 
 Some of the party workers expressed their resentment against sitting party MLAs. They alleged that in past four years, the sitting MLAs have not heard their grievances. They showed anger on closing down of   at Ramgarh. The party workers complained to CM against sitting MLA. However, CM counselled them and appealed to them to remain united for by-polls. She told them that it was not the time for all these disputes. She directed them to reach out to the people and make them aware about the works done by the party.
 
 She directed them to meet people door-to-door despite organising gatherings such as ‘nukkad’ sabhas (street gatherings). The BJP is emphasising more on dialogue rather than on holding gatherings for poll campaigning.   wing of the party will visit houses and meet women to make them aware about the schemes and policies rolled out by the government for women welfare.
 
 First,   met the party workers of Alwar rural state assembly constituency, after that she reached Ramgarh, Rajgarh, Laxmangarh and Alwar city. She also met different community groups. Raje said with the help of Maa (goddess), BJP will win seats in MAA (Mandalgarh, Ajmer and Alwar). She said whoever has matrashakti, she or he wins in every field. 
 
 She reached Alwar by helicopter. State party president   and other party leaders welcomed her. She will stay in Alwar for election campaigning in Tijara and Behror on January 22. 
 
 Party sources said that CM is likely to take out road show on January 25. However,   said that no such programme is scheduled to take place yet. He said that CM will take a call on it.
 
 
