COIMBATORE: The anti-Sterlite   called by DMK and other opposition parties was near total with about 80% shops downing shutters in the district.

 But for essential services like pharmacies, all the shops and hotels remained closed till evening. While government buses plied as usual, a section of private buses and majority of auto rickshaws too kept off the roads expressing solidarity with the protesters and condemning the government for the police shootouts. Government offices, however, functioned as usual though the number of public visiting them was low.
 
 There were sporadic protests mostly by DMK cadre condemning the arrest of the party working president MK Stalin in Chennai. Advocates boycotted the courts for the second day while farmers boycotted the monthly grievances redressal day meeting in the district collectorate.
 
 Tamil Maanila Congress chief GK Vasan, who was in Coimbatore, told reporters that shutting down Sterlite plant in Tuticorin was the only solution to quell the protests. “Rather than approaching the issue with a political perspective, the government should handle it with a humanitarian perspective. The Sterlite plant should be immediately shutdown and the arrested protesters from Tuticorin should be released,” he said.
 
 Since a number of trade bodies and unions had supported the bandh, busy commercial areas like Gandhipuram, Town Hall and R S Puram wore a deserted look while almost all the shops, hotels and bakeries in Singanallur, Ondipudur, Saibaba Colony, Ukkadam and Goundampalayam were closed.
 
 Small and micro industries at Ganapathy and Saravanampatti also remained closed as various associations including pump manufacturers extended support to the bandh.
 
 In rural areas of Pollachi and   too there was overwhelming support for the bandh. 
 
  corporation authorities said its buses were playing as usual. Police personnel were deployed at all bus stands as well as vantage points across the city to prevent untoward incidents. “There was no violence reported from any part of the city,” a police officer said.
 
 The VOC Park grounds continued to be barricaded by the police for fear of protesters gathering at the spot like they did during the jallikattu uprising.
 
 However, DMK men gathered at several places and staged protests demanding the resignation of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for the police firings and arrest of Stalin.
 
 
