BHOPAL: At a time when availability of fresh water is facing threat due to global warming, a   worth Rs 100 crore to connect villages of Dewas and   has endangered the very existence of  , a tributary of  .

 The foundation stone of the project was laid by Union minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari in October last year.
 
 However, after objections, the district administration in Indore has stopped the road work in about one km stretch. The road project will connect Tinonia village in Dewas to Tilor Khurd in Indore district and it is 80-km long connecting large number of villages of the two districts.
 
 In more than 1 km stretch, the road has been constructed within the boundary of the river, said Dr Vikas Choudhary of Ujjain, who is working for the past many years to revive the water body along with Kshipra. He said, “The road project is posing threat to the existence of Jaijawanti. The project is violating MP Bhoomi Vikas Niyam 2012 which allows no construction within 30 meters on both the sides of rivers. If the road is constructed it would hamper the flow of the water body, which is dry at most places during its run-up to Kshipra”.
 
 Jaijawanti river meets Kshipra between   and   of Indore.
 
 Choudhary said, “Almost 1000 trees have been felled and the green belt of the river has been exploited due to construction of the road. Even Kshipra is highly polluted and dry at many places”, he said. Talking to TOI, district collector Nishant Warbade said he would try ascertain facts regarding the river.
 
 Haji Abdool Habib , former sarpanch of Qazi Palasia, a village in the catchment of Jaijawanti river, said that while the chief minister is talking about identification of river contours and their boundaries, there is a road project which is violating government norms.
 
 He wanted to know whether the road project was given environmental clearance before the work was started on the site. Habib, who is also working for the revival of the river, said that government officials are under tremendous pressure as Union Minister Gadkari had talked about “non cooperating bureaucrats” during the bhoomi pujan of the project in Indore.
 
 
