BHOPAL: A private school on Friday denied the charge of not allowing a 7-year-old rape survivor to attend the school a day after her kin filed a complaint with the   ( ).

 On Thursday, the survivor’s aunt and uncle had moved MPPCRC alleging that the principal had asked the girl not to attend school because her documents did not match.
 
 The school principal said, “We are verifying documents of all students and did not ask the girl not to come to school. We only asked her aunt and uncle to submit correct documents.”
 
 The couple told the commission that the girl was enrolled with the school in 2016 through   and school authorities had said that they should either bring the documents that had her biological father’s name or pay Rs 6,000 annual fees by giving up the   quota, if they wish to continue child’s education.
 
 The survivor’s aunt is raising the girl since 2013, after her mother died and father was convicted for raping her. He is serving life sentence in the case. Her aunt says that the girl has not yet received any compensation and foster care was also stopped after the rules were changed last year.
 
 In her complaint, the aunt said, “She was getting Rs 2000 per month as foster care. It was stopped as guidelines were changed and it was declared that blood relatives cannot become a child’s guardians in absence of biological parents. The women empowerment cell said that we should look for ideal parents to adopt her.”
 
 To ensure that the survivor is not kept from attending the school, the MPPCRC wrote a letter to District Project Coordinator ( ) asking him to hold talks with the school principal to allow the girl to attend school within three days. Besides, MPPCRC chairman   wrote to   (SALSA) and registrar, high court to resolve legal issue regarding compensation to the survivor.
 
 “We have sent a letter to SALSA to look into the matter and provide them with legal aid, including a government lawyer to help them take up the legal proceedings. In addition, we have also written a letter to the registrar, high court to provide the aggrieved party with the compensation as soon as possible,” said Sharma.
 
