Noida: Little   was lying on a table on Monday morning when a dog tugged at her frock. She fell, panicked and began to run. But within no time, a pack of six stray dogs was upon her.For nearly 50 metres, from the basement of Tower 10 in   to that of Tower 12, Mahi was mauled by the  , an attack that, a day later, led to a police case being filed against the developer and a rift among residents over stray dogs being allowed within the housing society.

 Six-year-old Mahi was rescued from the dogs by a driver who found her groaning in the basement. She is out of danger now and recuperating at a hospital where she was operated upon to close her wounds. 
 
 At around 7.30 am on Monday, Mahi’s father Dinesh, who works in the Noida Sector 100 society, had left the child on the table he uses for pressing clothes and gone to clean cars. Mahi’s mother Nisha, who works as a cook in some flats in the society, said, “My daughter was pulled down and dragged by the strays. The dogs tore her clothes to pieces and bit into her flesh,” she said.
 
 Except her face, the dogs bit the child in all parts of the body, particularly her hands and feet that were exposed. She was rescued by Prem Singh, who works as a driver in the society. Nisha cannot stop thanking Singh. “She would not have been saved if he had not arrived on time. By the time he found her, her screams had changed to groans and the dogs had bitten every part of her body. He stood over my daughter, guarding her, as the dogs surrounded him from all sides,” Nisha told TOI.
 
 However, the dogs had grown ferocious by the time Singh turned up at the spot and he was scared they would attack him too. “He screamed for help, even as he guarded my daughter. A dhobi, Sahib Lal, heard him and helped to scare the dogs away with a stick,” Nisha said.
 
 Mahi was taken to Yatharth hospital, Sector 110, for treatment. “She was seriously wounded but is out of danger now. However, she is in a lot of pain,” said Dr A K Jain, chief medical superintendent, Yatharth hospital. Doctors said the girl will take a few months to recover completely but she might be discharged from the hospital within two-three days.
 
 The girl’s family alleged negligence on the part of the society management, claiming nearly 50 dogs roam in the society, and if any of the guards had spotted Mahi being dragged by the dogs, the incident could have been averted. 
 
 Mahi’s father lodged a complaint against the developers, 3C Company, including its two directors, general manager and facility manager, claiming the management had ignored multiple complaints against stray dogs. “The entire responsibility of security is on these four people and they did not maintain security arrangements, despite lakhs of money being paid to them by the residents,” reads the complaint.
 
 Police earlier refused to file an FIR, saying the case pertains to “strays” and not “pets” but later registered an FIR under Section 389 (negligent conduct with respect to animal). “Some society members have alleged the dogs are being fed by a section of society members and are, hence, pets. Both sides need to be probed,” Sector 39 SHO Avnish Dixit told TOI.
 
 Amit Malhan, the facility manager, said whenever they had tried to take any action against strays, such as asking guards to drive them away with a stick, they got calls from the office of Ambika Shukla’s Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care Centre. “I have been pursuing this issue with the authorities for the past four months but to no avail. Residents first feed the dogs and then they want us to take action against the dogs. We are stuck in the middle,” he said.
 
 
