NEW DELHI: Virat Kohli’s much-hyped preparation for the upcoming England tour has suffered a jolt with the Indian skipper sustaining a neck injury. This has led to Kohli’s county stint with Surrey being called off, according to a statement by the  . Kohli will undergo rehabilitation for three weeks before taking a fitness test on June 15 at the National Cricket Academy in Bengaluru. The future course of action will be decided only after the test.

 
 
 
 There were reports of Kohli suffering from slipped disc (herniated disc) but BCCI dismissed the rumours and has claimed that Kohli had suffered a neck sprain during his last IPL match against Sunrisers Hyderabad on May 17 in Bengaluru.
 
 
 
 With the fitness test scheduled for June 15, Kohli would have missed the five one-day matches for Surrey from May 27 to June 6 and also Surrey’s four-day game against Hampshire from June 9. That would have left Kohli with only one county game against Somerset from June 20, because he is keen on playing the second T20I against Ireland on June 29.
 
  
  
 
 “This decision was taken following assessments by BCCI’s medical team, subsequent scans and a visit to a specialist,” the BCCI statement read. While Kohli’s condition also raises doubts over his availability for the international fixtures, the board remains confident. “The BCCI medical team is confident that Kohli will regain full fitness ahead of India’s upcoming tours to Ireland and England,” the statement added.
 
  
  
 
 Eyebrows were raised over Kohli’s decision to skip Afghanistan’s inaugural Test against India in Bengaluru from June 14 to play in the county championship. However, Kohli and the board stuck to the plan as this England tour was perceived as a shot at redemption for the India captain who endured terrible form during his last Test tour to that country.
 
 The injury has also led to questions on the workload management system of the BCCI. Kohli has been playing a lot of cricket over the last few years, despite skipping a couple of series in the last six months.
 
 BCCI believes that the injury has been diagnosed at a very early stage and claims that workload management helped the board keep an eye on every centrally-contracted player during the IPL. While Bhuvneshwar Kumar, the other player who has consistently excelled in all three formats over the last two years, was rested by SRH in the middle of the league phase, Kohli led RCB in all 14 games.
 
 “The workload management system is in place and helped us in injury prevention. Virat just went for a precautionary check-up before leaving for England,” a BCCI official said.
 
 India will play three ODIs and three T20Is against England from June 3, followed by five Test matches. It will be interesting to see how BCCI charts Kohli’s workload from here on, as he is keen on proving himself in Tests in England. The World Cup is also just a year away.
 
