AHMEDABAD: The sordid tale of the rape and murder of an 11-year-old girl got more gruesome when  , the prime accused, confessed that he killed the girl’s mother in her presence. Later, he also raped and killed the girl to silence her as she was witness to her mother’s murder.

 According to crime branch officials, Gurjar was apprehended at   in   district of Rajasthan on Friday. Gurjar has been living in Surat for the last 18 months with his wife and two sons, aged 19 and 8.
 
 “The accused got jittery about the girl spilling the beans, especially as she had also allegedly spoken about the murder to a few persons. Workers at the construction site also had started asking questions about her mother’s absence. Following this, the girl was taken to the residence of Gurjar’s relative where she was allegedly raped by Gurjar and others for about 10 days. She was then strangled and her body was also dumped near   in similar fashion. This time, the car used was that of a tenant,” said the official. “According to Gurjar’s statement, an associate of his had brought a widow, a native of Delhi, from Jaipur along with her daughter to labour at a construction site. The duo came to Surat from Delhi soon after Diwali. They were provided lodging at a construction site in   where Gurjar and this person would meet,” said an official.
 
 Officials said the accused developed a physical relationship with the woman. After a while, the woman started demanding a place at his residence. 
 
 He then told her to go back to Delhi, but she refused to do so. At the end of March, the woman and her daughter were taken out in a car. The woman was then strangled to death in front of her daughter. Her body was dumped in the Bhestan area, where it was discovered on April 9. 
 
 Sources said that the girl’s hands had marks suggesting prolonged captivity and her body bore about 87 injury marks, including those on her private parts. Investigators believe that she was killed as she was an eyewitness but was held captive from sheer perversion. Medical experts said that if she were not killed, she would have died due to the physical trauma.
 
 “Vaginal swabs have been taken to ascertain if traces of bodily fluids are found. The accused was also sent for physical examination on Saturday. The body of the girl’s mother was in a bad condition and its physical examination did not reveal much,” said an official. 
 
 
