PUNE: Madhu and Prashant   recently hired a private tutor for their son who is still in kindergarten. And the couple could not be happier. With packed work schedules, the Desai’s were struggling to find time to help the 5-year-old with his homework and school activities. However, within a month of hiring the 21-year-old graduate as tutor, they started noticing signs of progress in their son — he seemed to enjoy learning more.

 “Young children find it easier to connect with young tutors. They often see them as elder siblings or a role model. Therefore, trust is established easily. Also, the young tutors, who are also students themselves, know how to keep the children engaged with multiple activities such as colouring, singing, puzzles and toys,” says Prashant.
 
 But the Desai’s are not the only ones who swear by private tutors for preschoolers. Many young parents are today engaging   who can provide personalized attention to the children.
 
 Arvan and Deeya Chhajed, another young couple, have three children. While the eldest is in Class VI, the younger twins have started Junior KG. Deeya says, “We hired a tutor as we were unable to dedicate adequate time to all the children. We want learning and development to stay in focus. Also, the children do not listen to us. The tutor is a saviour and has been handling the twins well.” They wanted a kind and friendly tutor with good communication skills who could create an interest in learning among the children.
 
 According to data compiled by  , an education technology startup, almost 50% of tutors are being hired for the junior segment — 3 to 5 years. Ali Asgar Kagzi, the co-founder and director of Genext Students, said, “Most parents are working professionals. As per the current education demands, children require special attention. Having a tutor helps in maintaining academic discipline in children.”
 
 Parents spend anywhere between Rs 1,500 to Rs 3,000 for their child, while the tutor conducts the session for 45 minutes to two hours.
 
 The more tech-savvy parents are also using mobile applications to find the right tutor. Kagzi said, “The teacher-student matchmaking is made possible through machine learning and artificial intelligence-based apps.”
 
 
