KOCHI: Justice Kurian Joseph, one of the four judges who revolted against the 'wrong practices' in  , said on Saturday that the issue seemed to have been resolved as it was brought to the notice of authorities concerned. Speaking to media in Kochi, Justice   said that there was no need for the Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra to quit. 

 When asked about the need of a   assigning of cases to different benches of judges of the apex court, he said," All issues stemmed out of assigning cases. We expect that there would be a proper procedure in place, including the conventions and practices which were there for assigning cases."
 
 He added that there "was nothing personal" and the issues were raised "only because of the commitment to the institution". On whether the Chief Justice should consult senior judges while assigning cases, Joseph said: It is certainly the prerogative of the Chief Justice to assign cases. But, there are certain conventions, practice and procedures while doing the same. We just brought such issues to (his) notice."
 
 Since the issues raised by the judges caught the attention of authorities concerned, it was believed that the issues won't be repeated and has been resolved, he said. "We raised the issue at the right time. We resorted to making the issues public because our earlier attempts to resolve the infirmities and irregularities that marred the court administration yielded no result," Joseph said.
 
 "There is no need for outside agencies to interfere as it is an internal issue of an institution," Justice Joseph noted. On a query, he made it clear that the President of India has got no responsibilities regarding the matters of the Supreme Court. "The President is the appointing authority of judges. Besides, that President has no constitutional responsibilities pertaining to Supreme Court and judges," he pointed out. When asked about Justice   case, Joseph refused to comment. 
 
  The Supreme Court was thrown into its   on Friday when its four senior-most judges revolted against the Chief Justice .
 
 
