RAJKOT: About a year after he devised an indigenous milk dispensing machine popularly called ‘milk ATM’, Nilesh Gussar a 28-year-old farmer from Talala in   district has come up with a cashless version of the machine.

 The newly-modified milk ATM gives users three options to dispense milk — biometric finger printing, username and password or through a prepaid card. The first version of the machine accepted only currency notes of Rs 20, Rs 50 and Rs 100 denominations to dispense milk. 
 
 Such milk ATMs are gaining popularity among farmers who don’t want to sell milk to dairies. They can sell milk at their own rates rather than depending on middlemen or dairy cooperatives. 
 
 Gussar, a farmer of Khirdhar village about 7km from Talala, had first assembled the milk ATM for his own use a year ago. Since then, he has sold over 30 machines in Kutch, Devboomi-Dwarka, Jamnagar, Porbandar and outside   in Maharashtra,   and  .
 
 “I wanted to eliminate the middlemen that came between a farmer and the end customer. When I used to sell milk at a nearby dairy I was not getting competitive rates and that is why I developed this machine,” Gussar a class XI dropout told TOI. He has no formal training in engineering but had a hobby of modifying machines since childhood.
 
 According to Gussar, farmers can get one-and-half-times more price for their milk using the milk ATMs as they can fix the rate for the produce. “Farmers can recover cost of the machine within a year. That is why farmers having more than three buffaloes or cows prefer this machine,” claimed Nilesh. 
 
 “Now, I have modified the milk ATM and made a cashless version where customer does not have to insert cash. The machine works by registering customers first and using their finger print to dispense a fixed amount of milk. Customers can also opt for the username and password system or a radio frequency prepaid card. Customer has to wave the card at a mentioned area on the machine following which prefixed quantity of milk will be dispensed,” he said. 
 
 Gussar has assembled five such cashless machines and dispatched it to his clients in Tamil Nadu, Orissa and Rajasthan. “The machines are on the way and within few days they will start using it,” he added. The cost of the machine ranges from Rs 75,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh based on the milk storage capacity which is between 50 litre and 250 litre. Besides refrigeration, the milk ATMs have battery backup in case of power failure.
 
 Gussar’s first customer Velji Bhuidiya, a farmer from   village, 9km far from   in Kutch, said, “I bought the milk ATM and have witnessed tremendous response. It is movable and I can carry it wherever I want. I had purchased it to sell cow milk.” 
 
 Now, Bhuidiya wants to buy another milk ATM which can accept new Rs 50 and Rs 200 currency notes. 
 
 
