KOLKATA: A shiver went down Saurav Modak’s spine as he watched in disbelief almost half of his investment getting wiped out on Friday. As the stock market suffered one of its steepest falls, triggered by the levy of long-term capital gains tax by the government, Modak’s investment in excess of Rs 8.5 lakh was reduced to less than Rs 4 lakh. 

 “I have hardly seen this sort of a bloodbath in the stock market for the past six years that I am dabbling in equities. Almost half of my investment in shares got wiped out in one day,” said Modak, 37, a   professional.
 
  
  
 
 Friday’s fall was one of the steepest in recent years, eroding a huge chunk of investors’ wealth. As the   plunged more than 830 points, or 2.34%, and Nifty declined above 250 points, young investors who have started earning recently and investing in the markets to create some wealth were the biggest sufferers.
 
 “My dream of building a profitable portfolio lies in tatters with almost 80% of my investment getting shaved off. I started investing in 2016 because the stock market was giving good returns. But Friday’s crash has dealt a big blow to my confidence. I am not sure if I will continue to invest further,” said  , 26, a private company employee.
 
 Many economists feel this nosedive was in the offing for some time now. “The Indian stock markets had risen too high too fast and did not correct in the last two years when other markets did. The levy of LTCG tax in the Budget acted as a trigger and gave way to a brutal fall,” said  , a city-based economist.
 
 One of the foremost reasons behind Friday’s crash, stock market experts said, was the levy of the long term capital gains tax by the government in the budget on Thursday. “Stock market was the only place to make some money without paying any tax if one held on to the shares for over a year. This attracted several individuals. But the news of the levy triggered selling off the shares,” said  , a young investor. 
 
 Thousands of young investors were lured into booming shares and commodity markets as the stock market soared along with double digit growth rates in the last three to four fiscal years.
 
 “Common people started thinking they were being left out of the boom in the stock market. Many of them started funnelling their savings into the stock market when the prices were already very high. They suffered badly on Friday,” said  , a market expert.
 
 Dipping interest rates in domestic deposits,   and other investment plans had forced many investors to turn towards the stock market in the past four years. “None of the traditional investment instruments like fixed deposits, recurring deposits and Kisan Vikas Patra give attractive returns now as the interest rates have gone down to a large extent. Since the interest is taxable, what investors get is a meagre sum after a year or two. There is no way to maximise wealth,” said Manali Biswas, a banker.
 
 But many experts believe that the “correction” presents a good opportunity to buy. “In past three years, the valuations had hit the roof, alienating several small investors. The correction has made the shares more affordable,” said Ravi Ostwal of Capital Trading.
 
 But veterans recommend a cautious approach. “Do not invest your money on hearsay. Do the research on the company yourself before taking a call. Also, do not invest in lumpsum but stagger your capital to factor in volatility,” said Rajesh Kanoria, a stock market veteran.
 
 
