Pune: The Union government’s slogan of ‘sabka saath sabka vikas’ has failed to ring true for children, at least in the Budget 2018.

 The overall share for children-centric schemes in the Union Budget 2018 was lowest in the last 10 years, child rights activists said after studying the Budget allocations.
 
 “There has been a gradual decline in allocation to schemes dedicated to children. While the allocation for children-centric schemes stood at 4.45% of the total budget in 2008-9, it has come down to 3.24% in Budget 2018, the least in the last 10 years,” the activists said.
 
 As per the analysis, education has received the largest share (as usual) in the allocations for children-centric schemes while child protection the least. “The share for child protection (0.05%) remains the same as the last year,” the activists said.
 
 The Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) programme was part of the 11th and 12th five-year plans. It took both these five-year plans to bring Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS) under the umbrella of ICDS, Enakshi Ganguli from HAQ Centre for Child Rights said.
 
 ICPS aims at providing children with a protection and safe environment to develop and flourish while the ICDS programme aims at providing services to pre-school children in an integrated manner to ensure proper growth and development of children in rural, tribal and slum areas.
 
 “With just 0.05% allocation for child protection, it beats the purpose of bringing ICPS under the umbrella of ICDS programme,” Ganguli said.
 
 She said there is more thrust on nutrition and education. “While Beti Bachao Beti Padhao is important, but so is nutrition and protection of kids,” Ganguli added.
 
 However, head of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights Stuti Kacker said the government focused on addressing nutrition as it was the base of all issues. “The child and his/her family should be fed right to ensure that the kids are not sold or forced into illegal activities,” Kacker said.
 
 This argument failed to cut ice with the director of Dnyana Devi Childline Anuradha Sahasrabudhe. “If you are not able to protect the child, what is the point of providing nutrition?” she questioned. “The question of survival is not just about food but also about protection and government should take a serious look at this aspect rather than just focus on education and health,” he said.
 
 The Budget has seen a 100% increase in National Nutrition Mission and Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, but less for the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan and even lesser for the midday meal scheme and the child protection scheme.
 
 Health cover 
 
 In the Union Budget 2018-19, the government has proposed the world's largest government-funded health protection plan, which aims to benefit 10 crore poor families of the nation with medical aid worth Rs 5 lakh each a year. The National Health Policy 2017 indicated that health expenditure would increase to 2.5% of GDP, but the goal is still far (it is 1.2% of the GDP right now).
 
 
