School kids, their faces scrunched in fear, holding hands and making a human chain as they get ready to cross the road, braving heartless motorists who continue to zoom past at breakneck speed — this has been a common scene on Road No 3, Banjara Hills. The busy road, which falls in a VIP corridor, was plagued with multiple accidents, owing to the high intensity traffic flowing in from Jubilee Check Post and Punjagutta. With no speed breakers, zebra crossings or pelican signals, it was a nightmare for pedestrians to cross this stretch; especially the 8,000-odd students and faculty of the the sultan ul uloom educational society, which houses a school, a junior college as well as Pharmacy, law and engineering colleges. running for one’s life, literally, and jumping over medians were the only options to get across the road. But not anymore, all thanks to a bunch of students from Muffakham Jah College of Engineering, who went to great lengths to make sure that their college gets a whole new Foot Over Bridge! After two years of relentless struggle, the FOB, which was inaugurated Friday, became a reality, making daily commute for thousands of students and working professionals in the area much safer. 

 “We had had enough,” says Safwan Shurith an alumni of the college, who was part of the 10-member group of students, from various streams of the college, who took it upon themselves to approach the government. “I was in my second year in 2015, when this idea first struck us, but the urgency was felt in 2016, when a female student who had just undergone a surgery on her right leg was hit by a car which drove over her leg. That was the ultimate tipping point. we called a rally and even stopped the traffic in protest,” recounts Safwan. 
 
 The fight wasn’t easy. “We used to wait outside GHMC and traffic police office for hours. We were turned away many a times. So then, we got signatures from our entire institution to make them realise the importance of the issue,” says  , from the class of 2017, who came down from Bengaluru where she is now studying, especially to be part of the inauguration.
 Once the GHMC approved the project, the students had to fight in court as the land compensation issues halted the project. “We impleaded in court, sent multiple signature campaigns to make this a reality and the case was ruled in our favour,” adds Safwan.
 
 So after two years the dream is now a reality. “It’s heartwarming to see little children so happy that they finally don’t have to run for their lives anymore. We are so glad that for years to come, our small struggle will benefit the children,” adds Aneesha.
 
