Over a week after the news of 150 dog carcasses being found near the   area made headlines, crucial   footage and photographic evidences have come to fore, showing just how the dastardly act was committed in the populated residential areas of Meerpet Municipality. The CCTV footage that was procured from the houses of the local residents and presented to the police as evidence not only helped pin down the criminals, but also gave a blow-by-blow account of the chilling scenes that played out over the course of four-five days when the hapless   were captured, injected with poison, allowed to die and then dragged and dumped. 
 
  
 “In the CCTV footage, it is clearly seen that the dogs were running around happily. Suddenly, these men arrive, corner the dogs, capture them, inject them with poison and leave them to die. This happened over a period of five days, between May 11 and May 15. Every day, at least two-three men would arrive in tractors at around 7 am, do this criminal deed like it’s the most normal thing to do, and leave,” says Saurabh Halder, communication officer, People For Animal. “It is being said that everyday about 30 to 40 dogs were killed. The bodies of the dogs were then dragged on the road up to the municipality tractors. The carcasses were dumped at garbage dumpyard near Kongara forest, breaking all laws,” adds Saurabh. 
  
  
 For animal activists, the fact that this dastardly act was carried out by municipality workers makes the callous cruelty all the more unacceptable. Incidentally, the whole issue came to light because some pet dogs too got poisoned in the process. “The local residents got alert when when a dog named Jockey went missing. She was a mother of three puppies, so the possibility of her having run away was ruled out. That’s when the hunt for her began and one thing led to another, until the CCTV footage made everything clear,” points out Saurabh. 
  
  
 While Jockey was one amongst the 150 dogs who died, her pet parents and   members are now adamant that they won’t let their death go in vain. Though the two accused staffers were suspended from the municipality and an FIR was also filed against them under Section 429 of the IPC and Section 11(L) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act for allegedly capturing the dogs and poisoning them, the activists question if this is a permanent solution. Many activists opine that mass culling of dogs is extremely common in rural pockets of Telangana and allege that the   is actively practicing it without coming into the picture. 
 
  
 “In this case, the two main accused got exposed. But in reality, the network is much bigger. Every year the government allocates a significant sum to the municipalities to undertake Animal Birth Control for stray dogs, but they just siphon off the money as it is a cumbersome process. Just to show that ABC has worked, they elimate the dogs as it is quicker and cheaper. That way the money for ABC, which is around `6,000 per dog goes into their pockets. We strongly urge that GHMC and other municipalities must be kept out of ABC as they are only committing crimes against these voiceless animals,” says Saurabh Halder. 
  
 
 
 Culling and removal of dogs from their habitat will have serious repercussions on the human society. For instance, when removed, dogs from other areas will come with their pups to take their place. They will be carrying a lot of diseases with them. I don’t understand why the GHMC 
 is turning a blind eye to the issue. It’s a great thing that the corporation’s trying to make Hyderabad a rabies-free city and their efforts are laudable but the way the adjoining municipalities are poisoning the dogs in the name of ABC is a heinous crime that is against the laws. We have approached the Chief Minister regarding the issue and he has assured us necessary action. He has also spoken about conducting ABC in others parts of Telangana, which is the only bright spot in this entire gloomy story.
 — Vasanthi Vadi, President, People for Animals.
 
 
 
 Animal welfare in Hyderabad has gone to the dogs. I don’t accept this answer from the government that just these two lower-level municipality staff were involved. These poisons are hard to procure and hence the orders, the money and infrastructure to kill them has to have come from top officials. We need answers on how municipalities are spending the money allocated for ABC and the results of a dog census. The people of the city are increasingly becoming intolerant towards animals. 
 — Vijaya Devi Mamidi, advocate and animal lover
 
 
 
 It’s high time we realise that we are not the only species on Earth. The pain an animal goes through is no less than humans. As per research, whenever an animal is abused, a chain reaction begins in the society. Not only does an innocent animal gets hurt, but the person who perpetrates it often falls into a cycle that ultimately results in violence against other people. Cruelty to animals 
 is just one aspect of a social environment marked by violence. In fact, people who abuse animals are five times more likely to commit violent crime. The government should take necessary steps to prevent animal cruelty. By taking action against animal cruelty, we not only helping the voiceless animals but are also preventing subsequent crimes. 
 — Mohammed Zabi Khan, animal activist
 
 
 
