MADURAI: Madurai’s festival season begins with the float festival of the Sri Meenakshi   temple on the day of ‘Thaipoosam.’ Every year city residents and people from neighbouring districts throng the   to witness the colourful ceremony usually held in the evening. This year however, the lunar eclipse played spoil sport as many missed the event as they were not aware that it was preponed to the morning.

 After sixty years, the lunar eclipse coincided with the ‘Thaipoosam festival.’ The temple administration had pumped water from  , when water was released from the dam two months ago, in an attempt to fill the Teppakulam for the float festival. Yet, the water was insufficient and this year too it was a static float.
 
 The festival began with the ‘kathir aruppu ritual’ (harvesting), where paddy that had grown on temple land in   was harvested and distributed to the devotees. Procession idols of goddess Meenakshi, lord Sundareswarar and his consort Piryavidai were brought from the temple to the grandly decorated float and special poojas were performed.
 
 “I have been providing security for over 15 float festivals, but this is the first time that the festival drew much small crowd,” said police personnel. Traffic diversions are usually made by the police every year as the fest sees lakhs of people converge at the tank, for many kilometres. But this year no traffic diversion arrangements were made due to the eclipse.
 
 Aruna a resident of Teppakulam said that her grandmother had lived in the same area for over five decades and even she did not recall a float festival not being held in the night. “The colourful lights which add grandeur to the float is a huge crowd puller, but this year, it was a low key affair and the lack of water in the tank was another disappointment,” she said.
 
 Vendors who normally make good sales during the festival were also disappointed. “People come to enjoy the evening breeze and the float, but this year people were discouraged to come by the afternoon sun,” said  , a vendor, who could not sell even two of the 20 pineapples that he had brought to the venue. 
 
 
