BHOPAL: For the first time since the state came into existence, Congress party on Monday decided to send a member of the OBC community to the  . Late last night, the AICC announced former revenue minister of the Arjun Singh government Rajmani Patel, who led a backwards movement in the state during the early Eighties as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha. Candidature of this old Arjun Singh loyalist came as a major surprise for all in the Congress party and the ruling BJP.

 “He is an undisputed face, no one can oppose his candidature,” said former   vice-president Manak Agarwal. “In the Eighties, he launched an organisation for OBCs and led a movement that brought backward classes together and joined them to the Congress party.” By nominating 72-year-old Rajmani Patel, the Congress party has played safe and is seen as an attempt to woo OBCs.
 
 “We are grateful to the Congress leadership for giving Rajya Sabha representation to senior OBC leader Rajmani Patel. The party will benefit from his nomination,” leader of Opposition Ajay Singh said. 
 
 Last week, there were demands from influential sections of OBC for a member of the community to be sent to the   by the Congress. The argument was while BJP has given three successive OBC chief ministers to the state – Uma Bharti, Babulal Gaur and   -- keeping the 54% vote-bank in mind, the Congress failed to send a single OBC to the Rajya Sabha till date.
 
 “My work in the Upper House would be to raise voice for dalits, tribals and OBCs. I will keep up my struggle for them,” Rajmani Patel said before filing nomination papers in the state assembly. Patel was first elected MLA from Sirmour assembly seat in Rewa district in 1972. He was again elected in 1980, 1985 and in 1998. 
 
 The former minister arrived around 10 am in the state assembly to file his nominations, but formalities took a long time. Flanked by PCC chief Arun Yadav and leader of Opposition Ajay Singh and, in the presence of 20 Congress MLAs, he finally filed his papers at 2.35 pm just 25 minutes before the deadline. State Congress chief spokesman KK Mishra explained the delay, “There were a lot of formalities which had to be completed and getting required papers over mail took some time. Otherwise, there was no major issue.”
 
 
