NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday entertained  's petition questioning the  's parallel “roving investigation” into a case already under CBI probe but refused to grant him interim protection from fresh summons and possible arrest by the agency under the Prevention of   Act (PMLA).

 Senior advocate  , appearing for Karti, told a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud that his client was already facing a CBI probe in the INX Media foreign investment case for which an FIR was lodged in May last year. “Now, the ED cannot say it has registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) on the basis of the CBI FIR for the same case and start fresh proceedings under PMLA,” Sibal said.
 
 “The agency is feeding the media with a cock and bull story about Karti laundering money through a ‘neta' (political leader). The neta happens to be his father P Chidambaram. The father gave a loan to his son. Now, the loan has become laundering of money. Is this the way citizens are to be treated? I hope in future no senior advocate of this court gets prosecuted because he has advanced a loan to his son. PMLA proceedings are initiated on the basis of ECIR, a copy of which was not given to Karti. Anyway, he is in CBI custody. So protect him from being arrested by ED. It will cause no prejudice to the CBI case,” he added.
 
 “If it is a cognisable offence, the ED must register an FIR. If it is a non-cognisable offence, then Karti is entitled to bail. The CBI has already interrogated him twice. On PMLA case, he has already been questioned for 28 hours on two days, January 18 and February 15. He is willing to cooperate and appear before ED as and when required. But we need interim protection. Ultimately, the transactions involved are through banking channels which date back to more than a decade. Let there be interim protection till ED files reply,” Sibal said.
 
 Additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta opposed issuance of notice by the CJI-led bench and said the ED would oppose maintainability of a writ petition seeking anticipatory bail in a case under PMLA, which has no provision for bail. The bench asked Sibal, “Are you seeking anticipatory bail through a writ petition? What happened to your plea for regular bail?”
 
 Sibal said a writ petition seeking protection from the apex court was maintainable when the investigating agency was intending to take away or curtail the liberty and fundamental rights of a person without following procedure under the prescribed law. In a show of solidarity, top lawyer-politicians of   Salman Khurshid and Vivek Tankha appeared alongside Sibal, who was seen taking instructions from senior advocate P Chidambaram.
 
 Mehta said any SC order granting relief to Karti, when the investigations were at an advanced stage, would prejudice the proceedings before the trial court. The SC asked the ED to respond to Karti's petition and posted the matter for hearing on March 8.
 
 The bench said, “We may clarify with immediacy that we have noted Sibal's submissions only so that it is debated. If we hold in the affirmative with regard to maintainability of the writ petition, then only we shall advert to the propositions which will relate to constitutional rights.”
 
 
