BENGALURU: The state government is all set to introduce   as a language from Class 1 in primary schools from coming academic year, primary and secondary education minister Tanvir Sait said on Tuesday.

 Replying to a discussion on the issue in the legislative council, K T Srikanthegowda (JDS) said the government has made all preparations to introduce Kannada as a language in all institutions, including private,   and   schools. “We have already held a meeting with the managements of private schools. A letter has been sent to CBSE and ICSE boards asking them to adopt three-language policy in their schools,’’ he said. 
 
 Probe into UAS recruitment scam 
 
 The state government will conduct a preliminary inquiry into the alleged corruption charges in the recruitment of assistant professors and associate professors by the   (UAS), Bengaluru. Agriculture minister Krishna Byregowda said the government will also stay the recruitment process, provided rules permit such action, till the inquiry is over. 
 
 “We’ll get the charges probed by a senior official and if they are found to be true, legal action will be initiated against the culprits,” he said, while asking the affected candidates to provide details to the official who will be appointed in a week. 
 
 The assurance came after JD(S) member R Chowdareddy Toopalli raised the issue. He also alleged while the government had given approval for just 43 posts, the university had conducted interview for 107 posts. 
 
 Senior member Basavaraj Horatti alleged that the interviews were conducted just three days before the vice-chancellor retired though the governor has clearly instructed all vice-chancellors not to take any important administrative decision like recruitment when they are due for retirement in six months. 
 
 
 
 
 Members in the legislative council demanded a quick and hassle-free passage to them at toll plazas on highways. JD(S) senior member Basavaraj Horatti said despite the government's direction, the legislators and other VIPs are not getting quick passage at toll plazas. “The staff at toll gates refuse to acknowledge our identity cards,” he said.
 
  MLC Somanna Bevinamarad claimed that he was stopped at a toll plaza near Haveri for almost one and half hour as the staff refused to accept his identity card issued by the council. 
 
 PWD minister H C Mahadevappa said he has been taking steps to address the issue. However, when there’s a rush of vehicles, providing a dedicated lane for VIP vehicles will become an issue. “I have told the officials to widen the roads at toll plazas to provide more lanes to cut down waiting time. The toll policy comes under the Centre and I’ll write to the Union transport ministry,” he added. 
 
 
