PATIALA: Following a decision taken by the cabinet, the   (PSPCL) has finally notified the policy to charge farmers, who voluntarily surrender their power subsidy, at a flat rate of Rs 403 per BHP for each month.

 The state cabinet, in its meeting held on January 24, decided that the farmers, who give up their agriculture power subsidy voluntarily, be charged at a flat rate basis determined by   (PSERC). The council decided to offer an option to the farmers to give up their subsidy by 50% or by 100%.
 
  
  
 
 Sources in the PSPCL said that following the decision taken by the cabinet ministers, the PSPCL issued a circular on February 23, notifying that the farmers who wish to surrender 50% of their subsidy voluntary will be charged Rs 202 per BHP each month and those who give up 100% of the subsidy would be billed at a rate of Rs 403 per BHP every month.
 
 After coming to power in March 2017, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had made an appeal to the affluent farmers in the state to give up the free power to their agriculture pumpset (AP) connections. However, the appeal had failed to invoke much response from the farmers as only two —AAP MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira, who has nine tubewell connections in his name; and Sukhbir Singh Thind, principal of the   — filed the applications with the PSPCL to give up their power subsidies.
 
 While the top brass of the corporation is still reluctant to talk about the number of farmers who have approached them to give up free power, sources said that number of such farmers was ‘disappointingly low’.
 
 However, after notifying the policy to bill farm connections, the PSPCL has now asked its field staff to reach out to a cross-section of the society, including the rich farmers, influential people, business and corporate houses, educational institutes, trusts, religious deras, along with others resourceful consumers, who can afford to give up the subsidy and sensitize them to join the move not rely on government largesse.
 
 Sources said that as it was politically unviable for the state government to completely withdraw the farm subsidy, voluntarily surrender of free power was the only option available to control the financial bleeding of the discom. In June last year, Amarinder had announced to give up free power for his farmhouse. But as no policy to bill the farmers was in place, the PSPCL had not issued any bills to the farmers till date.
 
 Former chief engineer of now disbanded   State Electricity Board (PSEB)   moved a petition before the PSERC seeking directions to the PSPCL to charge full tariff from all categories of consumers in case the state government failed to release the funds for the power subsidies in advance.
 
 During the last hearing in the commission, the state government had brought on record that it was not yet able to clear the entire power subsidy bill and had sought more time from the commission. The government had told the commission that subsidy payable to the PSPCL for the year 2017-18 was Rs 11,542 crore and the government had released a sum of Rs 3,372 crore, which has been paid in cash, and Rs 2,304 crore has been adjusted against the subsidy bill.
 
 
