NOIDA: A 40-year-old criminal was arrested, allegedly after a shootout with police in Sector 52 on Friday night. 

 Pan Singh, who is from Sambhal, is wanted in a murder and an abduction case from four years ago. 
 
 Another man, Khushi Mohammad, was arrested after a shootout in Phase 3 area. He had a reward of Rs 10,000 on his arrest. Ajay Pal Sharma, SSP Noida, said police received a tip-off about Singh’s movement with his accomplice in the neighbourhood. 
 
 “The team was deployed at the spot to check the criminals. The duo came on a bike and tried to speed away when they were asked to stop. They opened fire at the team while trying to escape. The police fired back in which   was injured in the leg,” he said.
 
 Police immediately nabbed him but his accomplice managed to flee. The accused had been absconding for four years in connection with a trader, Vipin’s, murder. Singh had also critically wounded trader’s father, Jay Karan, when he came to his son’s rescue.
 
 In 2014, the accused had attacked the trader’s shop to steal goods and valuables in Sector 71. However, Vipin, who lived in a house that was attached to the shop, woke up hearing the noise and resisted the robbery bid. 
 
 “Singh shot him dead and injured his father for resisting the robbery,” said a police officer.
 
 Later, police arrested Singh’s wife Geeta and an accomplice Sanjay for their involvement in the murder. 
 
 However, Pan Singh managed to evade the police and has been at large since then. A reward of Rs 25,000 had been announced on his arrest.
 
 “Singh has been admitted to district hospital for treatment. We will interrogate him about this involvement in other criminal cases. He will be produced in court and sent to judicial custody once he is discharged from the hospital,” said a police officer.
 
 In Phase 3 area, Khushi Mohammad, a resident of  , was arrested on Thursday night.He received two bullet injuries in the legs and is admitted in district hospital, Noida. Police had earlier announced a reward of Rs 10,000 on his arrest.
 
 The cops said they were conducting a check near Parthala Chowki at 11.30pm when they spotted the two men on a bike and signalled them to stop. The two tried to speed away after opening fire at the police team.
 
 The police chased the duo and fired at them, hitting Khushi in the leg. The two fell off the bike and tried to run away. The cops nabbed Khushi but failed to arrest his accomplice. A country-made gun and the stolen bike were seized from him.
 
 In another case, five thieves were arrested during a checking drive in Sector 9 on Thursday night. 
 
 
