NEW DELHI: Within an hour of Vice-President Venkaiah 
  on Monday morning, Chief Justice of India   walked into an eventful meeting of judges in the  , which resolved to form a four-judge team to informally collate concerns and suggestions of judges for a resolution to light up the institution’s dimming image.

  
  
 The morning meeting of judges, a routine affair every weekday barring Wednesdays when they meet over lunch, mostly lasts five minutes. But Monday was no ordinary day and the 
  , delaying sitting of benches by over 15 minutes. 
 
 Naidu had minutes earlier relieved the   of the ignominious removal motion, which was seeded in the rebel press conference of Justices J Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan B Lokur and Kurian Joseph on January 12.
 
 The tone of the informal meeting was set by Justice Gogoi, who requested the CJI to convene a full court meeting as soon as possible to address concerns and issues harboured by judges beneath their calm exteriors. 
 
 However, Justice Gogoi, who will take over as CJI from Justice Misra in October, said whatever happened in the past must be left behind and the judges must move ahead together and endeavour to brighten the institution’s image.
 
 Not expecting the morning meeting to turn into a brainstorming session, the CJI sought to know the areas of concern so as to resolve them. He said the issues could be resolved informally through discussions and there was no need for a full court meeting, sources told TOI.
 
 Justice Lokur said the government had been sitting on the collegium’s recommendations for appointment of judges to the SC and HCs, an issue that was highlighted by Justice Joseph in his April 9 letter to the CJI and all his colleagues. The CJI said he had taken up the issue with the government, which has promised to expedite the appointments.
 
 “I am doing my best,” sources quoted the CJI as saying. Though many judges spoke at the meeting,   unusually kept to himself, sources said.
 
 As the meeting dragged beyond the scheduled 10.30 am sitting time of benches, the CJI and other judges agreed to set up an informal four- member team of Justices A K Sikri, U ULalit, D Y Chandrachud and Sanjay Kishan Kaul. 
 
 The four have been asked to engage with other judges and collate their grievances, suggestions and larger issues facing the institution and put them up for discussion during the informal meetings of judges every now and then. 
 
 The judges for the time being did not press for a full court meeting. The CJI’s courtroom was packed with lawyers and journalists eager to see Justice Misra’s demeanour after the V-P rejected the removal motion.
 
 As the minutes ticked by and the court display board suggested that none of the dozen benches had commenced work, there was speculation about a possible full court meeting to stock of the situation. Against the schedule time of 10.30 am, the benches started work only at 10.47 am, indicating that the meeting lasted close to 20 minutes.
 
