Its graffiti-free walls and litter-free campus make it immediately stand out from other colleges. But the actual difference, which makes it the top college in Bengal, is in the all-round nurture of its 650-odd students.

 Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, a residential autonomous college that recently hit the headlines for being ninth in the country and first in the state, according to NIRF (National Institute Ranking Framework) rankings, has been taking good care of its students for 77 years now. Located adjacent to the RKM headquarters of Belur Math, Vidyamandira was set up in accordance with the ideals of Swami Vivekananda. Today, it offers 14 honours courses, 13 general undergraduate (UG) and six postgraduate (PG) courses, apart from three PhD and MPhil programmes. The college has about 30 laboratories, apart from one language lab. Nearly 88% of UG students and more than 93% of its PG students secured first class at the university-level exams in 2017.
 
 What’s even more amazing is that 56% of Vidyamandira’s students are from underprivileged sections, with more than 300 of them receiving financial grants from various government and the non-government quarters. The college itself disburses Rs 20 lakh to Rs 22 lakh as aid to its students every year.
 
 Vidyamandira has been twice awarded the highest grade, A+, by the National Assessment Accreditation Council (NAAC). But the secret behind its success is the “sincere effort” by both teaching and non-teaching staff, apart from cooperation by guardians, students and monastic members, said principal Swami Shastrajnananda, himself an alumnus of the college.
 
 Open House, a monitoring mechanism set up in 2005, is perhaps the most interesting thing on campus. “It provides a student the opportunity to talk to his professors informally and a teacher to know his student more closely,” said the principal. On how it has benefited students, Indrasish Banerjee, the head of the political science department, cited the case of two zoology honours students who suggested changes in the syllabus and exam schedules during Open House. “Their suggestions were placed in our board of studies and necessary modifications made,” said Banerjee. Since it’s an autonomous institution, it is empowered to frame and alter the syllabus or exam schedule, added Priyabrata Ghoshal, a professor of the Bengali department.
 
 “This openness between students and teachers is the secret of our success,” said the principal. “I do not know whether students of any other institution have a say in framing syllabus or exam schedule, like they do here.”
 
 Vidyamandira also has a radio-frequency identification device-enabled library with more than 62,000 books, from which students can take out 10 to 50 books for six months to one year. “It is so helpful that many of us don’t have to buy any book throughout the year,” said Chhandos Bhattacharyay, a second-year economics student. 
 
 And while students aren’t allowed to take phones to class, it doesn’t mean they are deprived of social media. From 9am to 7pm, there are internet kiosks, from which students can access social media, said the principal. The college allows students to keep e-book readers, and 3rd-year students can use their laptops throughout the day.
 
 But retaining the college’s unique character is increasingly posing a challenge. “Following Swamiji’s ideals, we want to reach out to the more marginalized section of society. But the escalating cost of education has become a great impediment,” the principal said. “Increasing tuition fees cannot be an option, for an institution like us depending primarily on government grants and donations. We don’t want education to become a commodity meant only for a section of the society, but we don’t know how long we can continue.”
 
 
