MUMBAI: A day after TOI reported the plight of Dadaji Khobragade (80) who revolutionized paddy farming, citizens from not just Maharashtra but even other states opened their hearts and loosened their purse strings to fund his medical bills. 

 Khobragade, who suffered a stroke in 2015, is currently hospitalized and his family had been unable to pay for his treatment. 
 
 
  
 
 His family had appealed for public donations through crowdfunding for Rs 2 lakh needed for his treatment 25 days ago. By Monday, they had managed to collect Rs 1.2 lakh. 
 
 On Tuesday, following the TOI report, Rs 3.3 lakh more came in, in a single day, and the amount rose to Rs 4.5 lakh. The state government also took note of the report. 
 
 Local tehsildar   met the Khobragade family on Tuesday and promised to write to the chief minister seeking medical help for the ailing Dadaji, who had developed the high yielding and widely used variety of rice called HMT—named thus after the wristwatch brand he used. 
 
 “The local administration reached out to us and promised to seek medical assistance for my father from the state government,” said Mitrajit, Khobragade’s son. 
 
 Khobragade is admitted to a private hospital in   town near Chandrapur. Mitrajit said the tehsildar met them in the hospital and took down his father’s medical history and details of financial help required. 
 
 Mane could not be reached for comment though. Sukada Chaudhary, a Nagpur-based digital marketing consultant, started the crowdfunding campaign after reading about the family’s plight on social media. “The response has been overwhelming,” she said. 
 
 Khobragade, who hails from a village called   in   tehsil of eastern Chandrapur district, is a recipient of more than 100 awards, including the prestigious President’s award for his innovations and even the state government’s Krishi Puraskar for his contribution to agriculture. 
 
 He also appeared on Forbes’ list of “seven most powerful rural Indian entrepreneurs” whose “inventions are changing lives across India” in 2010. Khobragade had dropped out of school after   to help out his family on the farm. 
 
