BATHINDA: Nine days into the Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant Bathinda contractual workers’ protest with their family members, the extreme cold weather has started taking toll on the health of children. Four children sitting through the day at the protest venue outside the district administrative complex, have been left indisposed due to vagaries of weather. However, they continue to remain part of the ongoing agitation against the plant closure.

 Fateh Preet, a five-year-old, who is known for charging up the protesters by raising slogans in an unusual tone, riding on the shoulders of his father Gurpreet Singh has taken ill. He is a nursery student at   but has not attended school since January 1. Gurpreet was working as daily wager in the coal unit, getting Rs 6,500 a month.
 
 Besides Fateh, 13-year-old Vandhna, 7-year-old Ramesh and 9-year-old Baljit have also fallen under the weather.
 
 The   government, in a cabinet meeting on December 20, 2017, had declared to permanently shut down the thermal plant with the start of the New Year. The 600-odd contractual and nearly 950 regular employees are protesting since that day for the state government to withdraw its decision.
 
 Fateh Preet says, “I am with my father who is on the verge of losing his job. If this happens we may have to look for a labourer’s job. I am skipping school for protest”.
 
 Gurpreet says, “Though I do not want my son to accompany me by skipping school but he insists on it. We have no other option than to sit on protest with family members to put pressure on the state government to withdraw the anti-people move of shutting down the plant”.
 
 Another contractual employee Tilak Raj’s daughter   says, “We accompany our parents so that the officials take pity on us and send report to the state government telling about our miseries. For us attending school is not as important for us than sitting by our parents to save their jobs”.
 
 Meanwhile, thermal plant General Manager   says, “The state government has made it clear that no retrenchment will be made even for contractual employees and they need not worry about their jobs. Only, they may be shifted to some other places”.
 
 
