HYDERABAD: Chief minister   is likely to announce reservation in the state government welfare schemes (non-statutory) for the poor among the upper castes, sources said on Saturday.

 
 The move, seen by some as an attempt to woo forward castes and make TRS unassailable before the 2019 elections, could be announced on the occasion of state formation day on June 2. A proposal for a corporation to promote welfare of the poor among upper castes is being considered.
 
 The state government is also thinking of fixing a quota for upper castes in IAS study circles on the lines of what exists for BCs and minorities.
 
 Official sources in the government said as per the household survey conducted by the state government in 2014, the upper caste population in the state is 21.50 per cent (78 lakh of the total 3.60 crore population).
 
 “The chief minister’s proposal is to benefit the poor among the Other Castes (OCs). If general reservations are given, it would again get stuck at the Centre. Besides, any quota for them in government jobs and educational institutions will be very difficult in view of the 50 per cent quota limit set by the  .
 
 Instead, the plan is to extend for the poor among the OCs reservations in government welfare schemes such as 2 BHK housing, admissions in gurukul schools and three acre land distribution,” sources in the chief minister’s office said.
 
 The TRS supremo had hinted about such a proposal during the launch of the   scheme last Thursday when he said that the poor among the upper castes were facing problems and the state government aims to come to their rescue.
 
 He said many OC leaders from communities such as Brahmin, Vysya, Velama, Kamma and   had requested him to set up residential schools for the poor among the OCs on the lines of SC, ST, BC and minorities being run by the government. Based on their request, the CM had already announced a few days ago that five seats in residential schools would be reserved for them. Few months ago,   had laid the foundation stone for the construction of a Reddy hostel at   and he has already announced the setting up of a Brahmin corporation.
 
