Not everyone can come to India and make the country his own. But then, not everyone is  . The Iranian filmmaker, who is feted globally for painting the world with colours of innocence, agreed to come down after a production house chased him for eight years. In India, while making Beyond the Clouds about the bond between siblings, he fell in love with all that he saw and is ready to set his next here. In a candid chat, he told us about the influence of Ray, facing rejection and why language is no barrier in cinema. Excerpts:

 
 
 Ray’s films were like magic for me. I was very young in those days. When I saw those films, I had not ventured into filmmaking yet. Seeing them was an experience in itself and I was like, how realistic can you be with your camera! I loved his realistic way of filmmaking, it was as if the camera was placed there and it was just recording everything that was happening in front of it. I wanted to learn how to do that. He could capture reality, yet there was acting and some drama in the story.
 
 
 
 There have been people like   and a few others, but these were some of the stars in the sky. There was no movement as such. I will tell you why. See there are two distinct movie industries —   and Bollywood. Hollywood, despite keeping an eye on the box office, kept churning out content that could make it more international. But Indian cinema, on the other hand, remained in its own border. They perhaps felt that with the content that they were producing, they could bring back the money; so they could stay where they were. Since many years and even now, they are making love stories; maybe the form or the way they are shooting has changed, but the body of the film is the exact same as what were made before. I think, in the old times, the films had some connection with the society like Raj Kapoor’s movies. Nowadays, Bollywood films are far removed from the real lives of people. It feels they just want to narrate the story and there’s this lack of connect with society at large. Everything remains in a superficial way and I wonder how they don’t use the tremendous potential that they have; I often feel that they ignore it. I think Indian cinema has the potential to become global but there has to be some immediate changes.
 
 
 
 The government must step in and help initiate the changes. See, mainstream cinema is based on economics and it’s difficult for them to take risks and come out in full support of arty films. That part will have to be covered by the government. Its presence is important. The government should help talented young men realise their dreams. It’s like a newborn baby, who needs its parents to hold its hands and help it walk. Once it can walk, the rest will follow on its own. For art cinema, the government should play the parents’ role and hold their hands. Otherwise, if they continue doing what they do now, in future, they may lose their audience as well. I don’t want to ignore Bollywood; it’s a commercial industry that exists everywhere in the world. What I am saying is that there should be a parallel cinema industry, which can show social issues and cater to the international audience. If such films are successful in the international market, they will have a good box office as well.
 
 
 
 I have not faced failure for my works. Because I was sure of what I was doing. More than sure, I used to believe in what I was doing. So, for this reason, I kept going on. But yes, there have been hurdles. For instance, no one was ready to fund Children of Heaven; they said there was no story, it was not going to be successful. For two years, I didn’t get any producer. I had already made Baduk and Father, which were successful films, yet there were no producers. But I believed in my script. I did what I wanted to do and continued the fight. The fact that no one was accepting my film, opened my way internationally and changed my life.
 What was the starting point for Beyond the Clouds? Was it your association with AR Rahman during the making of the controversial Muhammad?
 No, it was not just that collaboration. It took me seven-eight years to come here. I had different invitations from different people to come and work here, out of them one young company was chasing me for the past eight years. Talks were on, but in between I got busy with the making of Muhammad.
 
 
 No. You know it’s true that language is one of the most important aspects of communication, but cinema is visuals. So, we could go on. Mine was an Indian local crew who could bypass these problems by themselves. Having said that, there were some minor problems while shooting.
 
 
 
 You know it was difficult, particularly the weather and the location. It was tough shooting at the Dhobi Ghat. For me, my locations are my characters. So, I can’t change them, as changing them would be like changing my characters. So, with a professional team and an able 
 production crew, we could make it happen.
 
 
 
 I wanted to work with known actors as well. For my main characters, it was not working out for different reasons and I had to cast fresh faces. But Mr Ghose, despite being a great filmmaker, worked as an actor in others’ films. So, he had acting experience. I saw some of his works and selected him as he was matching with one of my characters. I should say he accepted the collaboration kindly and I must thank him for that.
 
 
 You know, Deepika has great potential in Bollywood. In those days, she came, we were together, and we made those costume tests. We just wanted to see how the costumes looked in such situations. She accepted the offer to do that for us and I appreciate that. But unfortunately, for different reasons, we couldn’t carry the collaboration forward. At the beginning, it was more of a producer’s suggestion to use one star in the film. But one of the reasons why we couldn’t collaborate was her age. My character is 20 years old and it was difficult to make anyone look younger with makeup. Also, since we were about to shoot in real locations, it would have been difficult to shoot with Deepika around as she is a star. In future, if my stories demand her, we may collaborate.
 
 
 
 I had a great experience of shooting in India. It’s probably why I am going to shoot my next film here as well. It’s a film set in Bengal and I am going to come back soon.
 
 
 
