MANALI: Storms and rains in northern states,   matches and closure of Rohtang Pass have started to hurt  .

 With half of May gone, several hotels are distant from achieving 100% occupancy mark.
 
 May and June are months of the peak summer tourist season in Himachal Pradesh when lakhs of tourists rush to hill stations to get respite from scorching heats of plains.
 
 In Manali, many hoteliers say their hotels are just 50% occupied in mid-May. Only some of the chosen hotels are fully booked. They say many states are witnessing good rain which has lowered the temperature and people are feeling comfortable at their homes.
 
 “Some tourists are worried that storm has struck the entire North India, including Himachal, and it is not safe to go on a holiday trip. But the reality is that we did not see any storm and weather here is pleasant,”  , a hotelier, said.
 
 He said Rohtang Pass, where tourists can see snow, is still closed which is putting a negative impact on tourism. “Most tourists come to Manali only after Rohtang is opened. The administration should open Rohtang as soon as possible. Importantly, snow at the pass is melting very fast. And late opening of Rohtang will result in thousands of tourists thronging here in one go in a very short time, choking all the roads.”
 
 Another hotelier Mehar Chand said crores of Indians are obsessed with cricket and prefer IPL matches over holiday trips. “In the last season too, we witnessed that numbers of tourists increased in Manali after the IPL season ended. We are sure this time, too, the crowd will be witnessed in June as matches will conclude by May-end. Permission to limited vehicles to go towards Rohtang Pass is also harming tourism,” he added.
 
  president Gajender Thakur said the tourist crowd in increasing in Manali, but it may take some time before all hotels go fully occupied. “Limited flight connectivity, bad condition of roads, traffic jams and limited access to snow points are some of the issues which adversely impact our tourism,” he said.
 
 Manali sub-divisional magistrate Raman Gharsagi said Rohtang will be opened for tourists very soon. “We are making arrangements of parking, mobile toilets and garbage collection facility. Once everything is done, we shall allow tourists to come till Rohtang Pass.”
 
 
