JAIPUR: The Jaipur police have got substantial leads in the foiled   case in which more than a dozen armed robbers attempted a heist of over Rs 900 crore at a private bank in Jaipur.

 At least 24 suspects are being questioned while four key suspects have been detained by the police. The involvement of local gangs has not been ruled out by the police for the daring act to rob a private bank’s currency chest.
 
 Police have also completed the process of verifying the SUV used by the robbers.
 
 On February 7, some 13 armed robbers entered the central currency chest branch of a private bank situated in the C-Scheme area. However, they fled after police constable  , who was inside the bank as guard, opened fire. If they had succeeded, it could have become the biggest-ever robbery in the country as the bank branch contained nearly Rs 925 crore in cash.
 
 Officers of the crime branch and Jaipur police (north) are burning midnight oil looking for various leads in the case.
 
 On Saturday, TOI learnt that they had rounded up almost 80 people, with 24 being questioned rigorously.
 
 “Some have been interrogated for identification and clarifying the sequence of events post and prior to the robbery attempt. Our teams are working on different leads and, hopefully, the picture would become clearer in the coming days,” said a senior officer of Jaipur police on condition of anonymity.
 
 However, the police are not willing to share much on investigations being conducted.
 
 When contacted,  , additional commissioner of police (crime), said, “All I can share is that we are working on different leads and developing them.”
 
 According to sources, the police have detained four persons as key suspects who were a part of the 13-member gang who attempted the dacoity. “Their name and address verification is pending,” said an officer.
 
 Police have also detained a person, who is the owner of the SUV used in the robbery. “He is being interrogated to find out if he was part of the gang, and if his vehicle was used without his knowledge. It is too early to say much on these developments,” said an officer.
 
 However, they have said that the sacks, brought by the gang to take the money from the bank, had not helped in solving the case.
 
 “Some of the sacks belong to   in Jodhpur while some are from Pune. It’s difficult to make out of it,” said an officer.
 
 
