Mothers are a resilient bunch – they adapt, react, they change. With new challenges, do the old tricks work? In this ‘me first’ era, are mothers changing their tack. We ask moms to weigh in...

 
 
 Motherhood was simpler when my mum was bringing me up. We went to play at our friend’s house next door. Today, I have to plan, organise and fix “play dates”! There’s so much new information that’s come up and available. It’s super hard being a working mom. My work is such that I am out of town for a few days a week. But the days that I’m not, I’m a full-time mum – right till I lie in bed with him, and chat till he falls asleep. Personally, I think motherhood — to a great extent — defines me. I wear a few hats but that of a mum is the one I am most proud of. The key is to find a formula that works. The biggest challenge is finding time to do everything.
 
 
 Our mothers were much more natural and organic in their parenting style. They took motherhood in their stride instead of obsessing over it like we do. Mothers today do try and wear many hats and believe in cultivating various interests – instead of just being a mother. If you are doing that, stop going on a guilt trip when things seem out of balance. That’s just part of the process.
 
 
 
 Mothers now feel pressure to raise perfect kids – who are talented, play sports, play chess, an instrument, read well... The trend now is to be over invested in them. Perhaps as working mothers, this is a way to overcompensate some of the guilt we feel, maybe it’s a product of a world that seems tougher and more competitive. It is imperative to raise a generation of children that is not entitled and doesn’t take its mothers for granted, something we can all be guilty of as children from time to time. I find it a challenge today to shield them from access to popular culture, most of which can be overtly sexual. It’s a challenge to teach her patience at a time when kids are used to convenience.
 
 
 
 As a working mom, the balance is pretty simple – when I am working, I give it my 100 per cent! I don’t feel guilty that I haven’t completed my tasks. And the moment I reach home, I try to be the best mom! All my attention and focus is then on Zack... Give 100% to what you are doing at that moment.
 
 
 
 Times have changed – for better and worse. The good part? You are much more hands-on as you are constantly connected to stuff online. There are so many support groups. I, as a new mom, am a part of three such groups. That way you are quite sorted, but it also makes you panic more. The notion of “motherhood defines women” is changing. Earlier, people would ask me: “When are you giving us good news?” And I would frown and say, “I have one. I signed a new film!” As if being a mom is the be all and end all...
 
 
 
 Women today still value motherhood, but it’s not the only thing on their agenda – or even the top thing. There’s a growing realisation that a fulfilled, happy woman makes a happy (and therefore effective) mother. And they are teaching their children too – that there is more to life than finding a suitable mate. Children for them are no longer ‘investments’ or ‘life insurance policies’. It’s a healthier relationship. The biggest challenge for parents everywhere is to keep lines of communication open and free and easy. It’s to make sure the kids keep talking to you – no matter how awful the mess they are in. My personal challenge is to resist the urge to mould the kids into mini-MEs.
 
 
 
 Mothers today have more access to information for everyday questions on child raising (thanks to the internet) as compared to anecdotal information from friends/family that my mom’s generation relied on. They are also more proactive in what kind of exposure they want to give the child. Earlier, while moms oversaw overall upbringing, important decisions around the kids’ education/sports were taken by fathers. Today, more mothers are stepping in. Moms also push their husbands to be equal partners in child-raising, which is a positive.
 
 
 
 Today, mothers are more hands on and much more involved in their children's lives than our own mothers. I see a lot of moms running around trying to get more study material, healthiest organic food, best vacation experiences for their kids. Giving skills to kids to succeed is top priority. Young moms are trying to carve an identity for themselves. Some of them have thriving careers and some pursue things they are passionate about.
 
 
 
 One fundamental difference between my mother and me as a mom is the amount of conversations I have with my kids. There’s no stating of rules (like you are not ‘allowed’ to do this) – it’s more of an understanding of why something must be done. In short, everything that I rebelled against my parents is put into practice with my kids! There’s more information available now but that becomes an issue if you make it an issue. You have to pick your conversations. As a mother, you take the bigger onus of parenting but Arshad is an equal partner. This year, I am taking some time off to pursue a course at Le Cordon Bleu, so I will be away from home. Being a mother doesn’t mean you have to curb your adventurous side. In fact, it’s good to shake their systems – makes the kids more independent. 
 
 — As told to Nupur Amarnath, Nona Walia, Deebashree Mohanty, Amin Ali
 
 
