LUDHIANA: The dismissal of a writ petition filed by Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA  , Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legal cell convenor  , and Krishan Kharbanda (the husband of ex-councillor Anita Kharbanda) in the Punjab and Haryana high court, has disappointed opposition parties, but brought great relief to Congress leaders. On Friday, the court dismissed the petitions filed against irregularities in the   process, by saying that as the election process had started, the court could not intervene now. The opposition parties declared the decision ‘disappointing and unfortunate’.

 Bains said the decision was quite disappointing, as despite putting all facts in front of the judge, the writ petition was dismissed, without taking any action against irregularities done by the state government in ward delimitation. He said he would continue his fight in the Supreme Court. Kharbanda too said he would move the  , because it was unjustified to declare a ward ‘reserved’ when the general population in that ward was more than the reserved population. He said he was not happy with the court’s decision. 
 
 However, BJP leaders said they had accepted the court’s decision, and would contest the MC polls to give a tough fight to the ruling party. They said voters would now give a suitable answer to Congress leaders for their injustice and irregularities. SAD’s Ludhiana (Urban) president   said the decision was wrong, as the court did not seek an explanation from the state government as to why they started the election process when a writ petition was pending. He said they were ready to contest the polls, but were waiting for a final word on the petition in order to issue their second list as well.
 
 On the other hand, Congress MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu said truth had prevailed, and the court’s decision had proved that the opposition was opposing ward delimitation in order to avoid elections, as they were afraid of a defeat. He said ward delimitation was done as per norms, and all the procedures were followed. 
 
 
