HYDERABAD: Akshara was all of 14 months old, an age where she couldn't realise that an innocent bite on the hand of her 11-year-old neighbour would lead to her death. The girl, in a fit of rage, threw her into a water sump near Jalavihar where the toddler drowned on Thursday. 

 
 Police who initially surmised it to be suspicious death, confirmed on Friday that it was murder and arrested the juvenile, who is a school dropout. The girl had even sent the cops on a wild goose chase with her 'abduction theory' before the sleuths cracked the case by offering her candies and toys to make her spill the beans. 
 
  
 Akshara was the daughter of Appala Naidu, a labourer, who works at Jalavihar on Necklace Road. The toddler went missing on Thursday morning while playing with other kids near a hut close to the water theme park. The accused girl told people looking for Akshara that she was abducted by an unidentified man. Central zone police and Task Force teams then scoured the railway tracks, parks and Hussainsagar. 
 
 Cops then stumbled upon a 15ft deep/4ft wide sump close to the huts where the workers reside and found Akshara's body. They analysed CCTV camera footage and found the girl walking by the parked cars near her house. But they did not come across the kidnapper she referred to in the footage.
 
 "Since the girl said she saw Akshara being taken away by a 'mad man' who gagged her with a piece of cloth, we searched the entire area. After the toddler's body was found, we asked the girl again and she stuck to her abduction theory," Ramgopalpet inspector P   said. 
 
 But the CCTV footage revealed that no man had entered the area. Police kept questioning the girl in the presence of her family by offering her candies and toys. Finally at night, she confessed to having pushed the toddler into the sump angered by the fact that she bit her and was crying.
 
 Police altered the section of the case to 302 (murder) of IPC and arrested her. "We produced the girl before the juvenile court in Nampally. She was sent to a juvenile home in   on a 14-day judicial remand," the inspector said. The juvenile is a native of Srikakulam. 
 
 
