KOCHI: Finance minister  's initiative to slash customs duty on raw cashew from 5% at present to 2.5% to help cashew processing industry will greatly help several entrepreneurs in Kerala, said G Krishna Kumar, chairman of the   ( ), Kerala state council. 

  MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar had also sent a letter to state chief minister on this issue last month, suggesting that around 500 factories in this industry are on the verge of closing down "as workers facing difficulty in earning their livelihoods and supporting their families." Chandrasekhar added that he had discussed this issue with the Union finance minister.
 
 Apart from this, members of CII Kerala state council viewed the budget as positive and believed that it addressed several key areas of the economy. 
 
 Krishna Kumar said that the budget mainly focused its funds on 'important' areas such agriculture, healthcare and public infrastructure and that this could have a cascading impact in several sectors and can lead to creating several new job opportunities. 
 
 "The minister announced a national health insurance scheme, which will cover around 10 crore vulnerable families up to Rs 5 lakh for secondary and tertiary hospitalization. This new initiative will create many new job openings in the healthcare sector," he added. 
 
 Furthermore, he added that government's decision to cut corporate tax to 25% for micro, small and medium enterprises will be crucial for the progress of entrepreneurs in the state as around 90% of the businesses in the state fall under this category. 
 
 CGH Earth group chairman Jose Dominic said that government's decision to follow through with organic farming will serve as a blessing for the country and the state's tourism. 
 
 "Making a destination liveable in turn also makes it a tourist destination. The biggest problems that bound to haunt the state are traffic and waste management. This budget had given importance to commutation, by prioritizing rails, roads, and aviation by supporting schemes such as UDAN. Furthermore, the government's focus on promoting organic farming will go a long way in making India a top ayurveda destination. Also, they have proposed investing in rural infrastructure which will help serve the tourism industry," said Dominic. 
 
 He said that if a Kerala destination is included in the Union finance minister Arun Jaitley's proposal to transform "ten prominent tourist sites into Iconic Tourism destinations by following a holistic approach involving infrastructure and skill development," then it would be an enormous boost to the state's tourism sector. 
 
 Sterling Group of Companies MD Shivadas B Menon said that the budget has a lot to offer the state but it all depends on the state's ability to acquire these funds and implement the proposals. 
 
 
