By  

 Historically, the   have worked together to attract the  , those likely to buy the brand or influence sales. But recent evidence suggests brands should pay serious attention to the ‘other’ audience, one deeply unlikely to purchase the brand. This is the ‘entertainment’ target group.
 
 The limitations, or perhaps opportunities, of the mass media offer the most compelling evidence to justify pursuing this significant parallel thrust. Most of TV and print communication is placed in ‘blockbuster’ spaces like cricket matches and premium slots, with even the so-called niche media attracting more than just the validated profile. It is true that a lot of ‘others’ are watching your carefully-crafted advertising with sufficient interest. As for the 30-second or half-page engagement, nobody really switches off.
 
 Since they are not in the market for rational reasons, their relationship with the advertisement, usually through the medium of TV, is guided by the entertainment factor (for example, a teenage boy watching an ad for ladies’ cosmetics). They laugh if they are amused, think if provoked or feel touched if their emotions are tickled. In short, it is how they react to the content in any format. Opinions are formed, conversations emerge and the advertisement is viewed purely through the lens of the entertainment.
 
 None of the above is actually new. From the earliest days of mass communication, this audience was considered ‘wastage’, its ‘reduction’ a major objective of media planners. Now, when we consider them positively as an ‘entertainment’ target group, one that’s unavoidable but useful, some seriously exciting possibilities emerge.
 
 For, the role of traditional communication as a shaper of transactions across categories is diminishing, with peer or expert endorsement and proof of performance gaining precedence. The TV commercial has retained its role as a driver of emotional images and reduced its clout as a rational influencer (the same is valid for print). But, in a twist of perspectives, a freshly-defined strategic function for the ‘entertainment’ TG can help revive the importance of the TV commercial.
 
 So, how exactly can people not in transaction mode seriously serve the interests of any brand? This audience evaluates communication purely for its likeability or lovability, performance not even coming into consideration. Just as the Fevicol creativity was loved more by non-users, and   adored by everybody, we all possess sufficient drawing-room experience to justify the value of advertising as a conversation adhesive. The brand gets a valuable opportunity to forge a ‘human’ connection, which can then multiply rapidly as actionable goodwill (of great use during crises, or even in newer forays).
 
 Just as we have the Abbys and Effies, for business and creativity, we can establish the ‘Vollies’ for viewer likes and loves. Here, every watcher gets to judge advertising solely on entertainment value — just as movies are seen as inspiring, comical or thought-provoking. Advertising’s aspiration to become a genuine member of Popular Culture thus gets a serious boost, with many young digital natives invariably joining in.
 
 On social media, the non-transactional dimension can lead to animated conversation, not just for triggering controversies but for sparking creativity (just like the way we look at movies and music). Over time, social media will increase its connectivity with the ‘transaction’ TG, as this target group becomes influential enough to impact reputation and appeal, key strategic tools in an era of ever-increasing product and service parity.
 
 Brands cannot choose the people who observe their communication and so it makes sense to make an ally out of every possible candidate. If treated with commonsense, the ‘entertainment’ target group can become surprisingly sustainable fuel for traditional advertising as well as new-age branding.
 
 (The writer is
 
 
