JAIPUR/ALWAR: Toll due to the severe dust storm that ravaged three districts on Wednesday night continued to mount through the day as more bodies were recovered from different areas. 

 State home minister Gulab Chand Kataria had put the toll at 33 on Thursday afternoon, however, by evening, figures emerging from the three severely hit districts of Bharatpur, Dholpur and Alwar indicated that number of deaths due to the severe dust storm on Wednesday night were at 39. Besides, 205 persons have suffered injuries. 
 
 After a horrifying night, Thursday morning brought in a host of woes as people woke up to water crisis and power supply disruption. In different parts of Alwar, electricity supply got disrupted for more than 24 hours. Power could be restored only in parts of the district. In all three affected districts, 12,700 electricity poles have been uprooted, while 1,523 electricity transformers were damaged. Besides, more than 50,000 trees were uprooted. Collectors of all three affected districts are stepped up relief work as many lost their houses.
 
 The government rushed ministers to three districts suffered damages, while chief minister   is scheduled the affected areas of Bharatpur on Friday. “Social justice and empowerment minister   has been sent to Dholpur, health minister Kalicharan Saraf reached Alwar and GAD minister Hem Singh Bhadana has been sent to Bharatpur for relief work,” Kataria added. 
 
 Addressing newspersons, Kataria said, “Seventeen persons have died in Bharatpur, nine in Alwar and five in Dholpur district due to dust storm. We are conducting post mortem to ascertain that they have died due to dust storm,” said Kataria. 
 
 He said that in Jhunjhunu, deaths were reported but it has not been ascertained as to whether they died due to the storm. “We have received information that some persons were killed when a house collapsed in   but it has not been confirmed if is related to dust storm,” he said. 
 
 He added that he had talked to collectors of the dust storm-affected districts and directed them to send demand of compensation. “We have already released Rs2.5 crore as compensation for those who died in the dust storm. Rs1crore for Bharatpur, Rs65 lakh for Alwar and Rs85lakh for Dholpur has been released. Families of those died due to dust storm will get Rs4lakh as compensation,” said Kataria. 
 
 Besides, Kataria said that last year on April 11, nineteen persons had died due to dust storm. Learning from the past incident of damages done by dust storm, the state government demanded to the government to include dust storm in disaster for releasing compensation for financial help. “It is for the first time, we will release funds through state disaster and relief department. Earlier, we were releasing the compensation from Chief Minister Relief Funds,” he said. 
 
 The damage done by dust storm in Bharatpur was immense as 138 persons suffered injuries, while in Dholpur 50 persons and in Alwar 17 persons received injuries, says, the state government’s official figures. Total 205 persons suffered injuries. 
 
 
