Queensland Premier  , who was controversially cut off the official speakers’ list at the opening ceremony, took to the local newspaper to write her welcome address. Welcoming the guests, in a write-up in The Courier Mail, she said: “We are the birthplace of Waltzing Matilda (a ballad described as the country’s unofficial anthem). And the Bee Gees (a pop band). The home of the Great Barrier Reef.” 

 
 
 She said the Games is the proudest moment yet for the locals. “But of all the things we Queenslanders boast about — and, you might have noticed we do boast a bit — having you here for these Games is our proudest moment yet.”
 
 
 
 
 
 Adding to the traditional theme at the opening ceremony was the smoking ceremony conducted by Luther Cora and his family at the Carrara Stadium. It’s an ancient and enduring custom still widely practiced among many indigenous Australians. To ‘bathe’ in the smoke is to cleanse oneself and connect with each other and with the land. It is all about connecting with the good spirits. Cleansing everyone, hopefully even the expert dopers who even slip the checks, at the Games was Cora, a contemporary aboriginal artist, and three generations of his local family.
 
 
 
 Indigenous rights activists disrupted a leg of the Commonwealth Games baton relay in Gold Coast on Wednesday and demanded Britain’s royal family members ask them for permission to visit “stolen” land. A few dozen protesters blocked the Queen’s Baton Relay route in the suburb of Southport, causing the relay to halt for about an hour, local media reported.
 
 Britain’s Prince Charles and his wife Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, touched down in Brisbane on Wednesday to attend the opening ceremony.
 
 “Today what we wanted to do was to make it clear to the mob, make it clear to the world and make it clear to our people that we’re standing strong,” a protester said in footage posted on Twitter by host broadcaster Seven Network.
 
 
 
 Mark Hughes revealed that he apologised to his daughter after he abandoned plans to watch her play hockey for Wales at the Commonwealth Games when Premier League club Southampton came calling. Xenna Hughes is in the Wales hockey squad for the Games and her father was all set to jet over and watch her in action. But just weeks after getting the sack at Stoke City, the 54-year-old Hughes last month was suddenly back in football management at Southampton, who along with Stoke are mired in the Premier League relegation zone.
 
 “If I’m being honest, I didn’t anticipate getting back in (management) until maybe next season. I had lots of plans, things we were going to do,” Hughes, a former Wales boss and Manchester United striker, told the BBC.
 
