Panaji: As Ferran Corominas, FC Goa’s star striker, walked out of the field after warming up in his travel gear – which included track pants and sneakers – he knew he wouldn’t do anything like this ever again.

 “This is a first for me, and surely the last,” Coro told a member of the   support staff, all trying to get the team ready for an Indian Super League encounter against ATK that was delayed by 2:45 hours on Wednesday.
 
 In a first for Indian  , a match started on Wednesday and ended on Thursday at the Salt Lake stadium in Kolkata, and at the centre of it all was FC Goa.
 
 The Goan franchise braved a 36-hour ordeal that included an emergency landing, halt at the runway, offloading, several delays, and an agonising 10-hour wait at the Dabolim  , without food or rest. They finally took off from Goa when they were originally scheduled to be at the stadium, and thanks to a chartered flight from Jabalpur, landed less than an hour before kick-off and had to head straight to the stadium, without their kit.
 
 “Some of the most incredible 48 hours a team can go through. But this set of gentlemen went out there and played a game where we gave a solid account of ourselves and could have got all 3 points too. Proud to work for this team,” Ravi Puskur, head of FC Goa’s first team operations, tweeted immediately after they fought back for an incredible 1-1 draw.
 
 Had Mandar Rao Desai managed a better touch with his right foot in the 73rd minute off a Corominas pass, essayed after he broke through the left of ATK’s backline, FC Goa could even have flown away with full points.
 
 That would have been sensational, but like FC Goa president Akshay Tandon later told TOI, “the fact that the team wanted to go out and play after everything they went through is a fairy tale in itself.”
 
 It all started on Tuesday when they chartered a flight to Kolkata, took from Goa but were forced to make an emergency landing. Flying out the next morning on another charter seemed a good choice, but another “technical issue” meant they were left stranded on the runway. They were offloaded for a second time, and when a MiG 29K combat aircraft veered off the runway at the airport, it seemed their trip was jinxed.
 
 “Of bigger concern were the players. They had assembled at 9am at the airport and till late afternoon, they neither had proper rest or food,” said Puskur.
 
 In the morning, after they were stopped in their tracks on the runway, players believed it’s only a matter of time before they get back on the flight. They played ludo and other games on their cell phones. The foreign players made long distance calls back home, others opted to watch movies on their cell phones and those bored tried to catch up on some sleep, lounging on their seats.
 
 In the afternoon, the hunger pangs showed up. The players had had nothing apart from an early-morning breakfast, and chaos at the airport meant there was not enough food. Nobody was sure whether they could even step out of the airport to have lunch, until at 2.15pm they were told that they could have food at nearby restaurants and return with fresh boarding passes, since they were now scheduled to take a third charter.
 
 “We got a point but this was a huge victory for the team in terms of showing true character and camaraderie. It wasn’t an ideal situation. It was certainly risky but not once did the players tell me that they didn’t want to play this game. In fact, even if the match was scheduled at midnight, or beyond, they would have played,” said the club president.
 
 FC Goa are fourth on the   table with 13 points from seven matches. They still have a match in hand, and given their resilience, and camaraderie, it wouldn’t surprise anyone if they return to the top of the table on Saturday.
 
 
