KANYAKUMARIi: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy on Wednesday gave away Rs 35.4 crore — at Rs 20 lakh each — to the families of 177 Tamil Nadu fishermen who could neither be rescued nor their bodies traced since Cyclone Ockhi struck. At the event organized at the secretariat in Chennai, the relatives of the victims including young widows and blood relations received cheques for Rs 10 lakh and receipts of the fixed deposit for the remaining Rs 10 lakh.

 It was heart-wrenching to see some young widows receiving the cheques with toddlers in their hands. The beneficiaries included families of 139 fishermen from Kanyakumari district, the worst-affected by the cyclone on November 30. Others included 19 fishermen from Cuddalore, 15 from  , three from   and one from Pudukottai who went in the boats belonging to Kanyakumari fishermen.
 
  officials said that the bodies of 27 Tamil Nadu fishermen which were washed ashore in Kanyakumari district and in Kerala were identified and handed over to their relatives. Since most of them were badly decayed and could not be identified physically they were identified through DNA test after they were matched with the blood samples taken from their kin. This included more than 20 from Kanyakumari district.
 
 In all Rs 5.4 crore was handed over to the families of these fishermen. By distributing Rs 35.4 crore on Wednesday, the state government has distributed Rs 40.8 crore towards compensation to families of 204 fishermen from Tamil Nadu. Families said it would help them educate their children, get their daughters married and repay loans. However the cheques could not be given to all the 177 families. Vallavilai hamlet lost 32 fishermen to Ockhi, out of whom families of five fishermen could not go to Chennai on Wednesday. Nisha, 27, the widow of Ousep, could not make it as she had a three-month-old baby who was born on December 25 after her husband went missing at sea.
 
 The family of 21-year-old Ebin alias Ramesh of the same village could also not collect the compensation. Though his mother Evelyn, 44, was at home she could not go as the boy’s father Moses, 50, was supposed to collect the compensation on behalf of the family. But he had gone to the sea for multi-day fishing about three weeks ago.
 
 
