NOIDA: A 17-year-old murder accused lodged in a  , which has been under the administration’s scanner for lack of hygiene, died of tuberculosis in a   hospital on Monday.

 Originally from Shamli, the youth had been apprehended in connection with a murder in his hometown and was initially lodged in an observation home in Muzaffarnagar. He was subsequently transferred to Noida on November 25, 2016. Although his family in Shamli could not be reached for a comment, sources said they had alleged that the youth was not given proper medical care at the juvenile home despite being unwell for the past months. 
 
 Health and hygiene had been a cause for concern at the juvenile home earlier too as an inspection by the district legal services authority (DLSA) had on October 7 last year revealed that most of the inmates were suffering from skin diseases and rashes. The report had also quoted some inmates to point out serious flaws in the way the home was being run.
 
 The national human rights commission had ordered a spot inquiry into the functioning of the juvenile home, taking suo motu cognisance of a TOI report published on December 10, 2017. Although the commission had directed its DIG (investigation) to submit a report on the home in two weeks, little action was taken to improve the facilities there. District probation officer Atul Soni said the youth had been keeping unwell for the past four months and given regular medical treatment. “Doctors there had initially administered medicines but could not do a proper diagnosis. It was only on May 17 that we found that he was suffering from tuberculosis,” he said. According to the home in-charge Dharmendra Maurya, the 17-year-old was admitted to the district hospital on May 15 when his condition deteriorated. “He was discharged from the hospital the very next day. When his condition became serious on May 17, he was again admitted to the hospital where a diagnosis revealed he was suffering from  ,” he said.
 
 As the Noida district hospital did not have a separate ward for TB, the youth was transferred to a government health facility in Meerut. “He underwent treatment there for two days but his condition did not improve. He was then admitted to Meerut medical college where he died on Monday,” he said.
 
 Asked for details on the youth, Maurya said he was neither aware of his criminal antecedents or his family in Shamli. He said he did not have the contact number of the youth’s family and rushed to Meerut to complete the legal formalities.
 
 The Noida juvenile home, operating from the first floor of an old court building, currently houses 130 inmates from various parts of UP. It has 13 officials, 10 home guards and 3 constables. The inmates are classified into four age groups — 16-18, 14-16, 12-14 and below 12 — and stay in four separate halls.
 
 Although district probation officer Soni claimed a government doctor visits the home twice a week,   member Aneet   gave a different version. Baghel, who had inspected the juvenile home on April 24 this year, said: “Doctors hardly visit the juvenile home for checking the inmates’ health. We had found a flour packet that had passed the expiry date. The inmates are also not given proper food,” Baghel said.
 
 Told about the serious lapses in the functioning of the home, district magistrate BN Singh said: “I will check the matter and take necessary action.”
 
 
