NEW DELHI: All eyes are on the all-party meeting called by   on Tuesday to discuss the problems traders are facing due to the   of their establishments for violating  . While Delhi Congress chief   intends to attend the meeting despite the party’s bitter rivalry with Aam Aadmi Party, BJP has chosen to be cautious, sarcastically advising whoever is attending to wear a helmet in what is obviously a vicious reference to the alleged attack on Delhi’s chief secretary at a meeting in the CM’s residence.

 The meeting is being called in the shadow of an ugly slugfest among the Aam Aadmi Party, BJP and Congress over the sealing drive, which has been going on for around three months now. After the remarks about protective helmets by Vijender Gupta, neither Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari nor representatives of his party are likely to attend the meeting at the CM’s residence.
 
 The retaliation wasn’t too long in the coming, with deputy CM Manish Sisodia taking to Twitter to say, “The sealing has snatched the sources of livelihoods of many traders, but the president of Delhi BJP which has to find a solution is touring foreign countries. The president is touring foreign countries after breaking the backbone of the traders.” 
 
 BJP promptly retorted by alleging that Sisodia’s remarks on Tiwari’s Mauritius visit were politically inspired and designed to vitiate the atmosphere. “The remarks displayed the CM’s lack of confidence in the all-party meeting,” the party said in a letter to Kejriwal on Monday.
 
 Maken is prepared to attend the meeting and has identified the subjects that he will broach at the meeting, including the non-notification of 351 roads as mixed-use lanes. Despite this, he attracted flak, with   Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh snapping, “It seems that Maken is a puppet of BJP.” Singh’s anger seemed to have been triggered by Maken pointing out on Sunday that AAP’s plea on the Centre moving either an ordinance or a Bill to amend laws to prevent sealing was untenable for procedural reasons. Singh did move a private member’s bill in the Rajya Sabha on Monday.
 
 If it attends the meeting, BJP is certain to face the maximum heat at Tuesday’s discussion since it is the ruling party in the municipal corporations, which are carrying out the sealing. Congress, in contrast, has few numbers in the civic bodies and is non-existent in the Delhi assembly, and is thus unlikely to face be hauled up at the all-party brainstorming session.
 
 Kejriwal has already announced at a public meeting that he would go on a hunger strike if the sealing did not stop by March 31.
 
 
