Nagpur: Akash Wat, owner of a pipe factory at Pardi, has been charged with cheating for cancelling his engagement after seeing a Facebook post of his prospective bride with some friends. The woman’s family, which had already spent around Rs4.21 lakh on the engagement, also filed a complaint that Akash and his family demanded dowry too.

 The offence was registered by Ganeshpeth police against Akash, his mother Sandhya, sister Megha, and her husband Narendra Karemore, for breaking off the engagement with the woman, who is also a relative. Relevant sections of Dowry Prohibition Act were also invoked against the four for allegedly demanding Rs10 lakh. The marriage was scheduled to take place in November last year.
 
 The complainant’s family was left enraged on learning that Akash immediately got engaged to another woman after cancelling the earlier engagement. Akash and his family had questioned the character of the woman while cancelling their engagement, and subsequently the marriage.
 
 The action against Wat and Karemore families was initiated following a complaint by the parents of the victim. She is learnt to be an engineering graduate working with a private company. The match was arranged by a common kin.
 
 After initial talks, the woman’s family is learnt to have organized an elaborate engagement ceremony, which was attended by minimum 500 guests. Expensive gifts, including ring and other valuables, too were given to Akash and his family on the engagement.
 
 Police said the victim’s family had started preparations when Akash and his family shocked them by calling off the match. While they said Akash’s father was innocent, the victim’s family was specifically unhappy with his mother, sister and his husband, more than anyone else.
 
 Sources from the police station said the Facebook picture which had induced doubt in the minds of Akash and others was of the woman posing with a group of friends in an outdoor location.
 
 The complaint was filed with Ganeshpeth police station, which kept the matter under enquiry for a long time before registering an offence. Senior PI Sunil Gangurde of Ganeshpeth police station said the Wats and Karemores were not available at their homes. “Cops have started searching for the accused. We have returned empty-handed from their residences as they were locked. They will be arrested soon,” said Gangurde.
 
 
