CHENNAI: There has always been a controversy not only regarding the death of Subhas Chandra Bose, but also his marriage. We have historians and his biographers like  , Vappala Balachandran and his family members like Sugata   and Madhuri Bose who claim that he got married to Emilie   in   in December 1939. While members in the Forward Bloc, the party that Bose launched, believe that he was unmarried. However, during his recent research, Paris-based historian JBP More came across crucial British   files in the   classified under the caption “ACN Nambiar” which reveal the life of Bose in Germany, especially his love affair.

 According to More, Schenkl had admitted to scholars like Leonard Gordon that the marriage took place in December 1939. Sugata Bose, the grandnephew of Bose endorsed this date. “But Schenkl did not provide any marriage certificate or any witnesses for the marriage. She did not even provide the birth certificate of her daughter, born to Bose. Bose himself had never told anyone in East Asia about this marriage or rather liaison. The British Intelligence file is quite emphatic that the daughter was born out of wedlock. The word used in the file was ‘illegitimate’,” said More, quoting the file, who has been accessing archival records to unravel the mystery behind Bose for more two years.
 
  “A secret report states that Bose came into contact with   in 1933 in Vienna. She was 33 by then and worked as a typist for Bose. It seems that Bose fell in love with her at this time,” he said. Apparently, Schenkl was his private secretary from 1933 to 1936 and accompanied Bose on most of his tours. When Bose came back to Germany in 1941, Schenkl lived with him. 
 
 “According to ACN Nambiar, Bose’s deputy in Europe, the German foreign office did not like Schenkl staying as a mistress in Bose’s villa, but he had managed to get her as private secretary as she was known long to Bose,” said More, who teaches at the Institut des Hautes Etudes Economiques et Commerciales, Paris. The files further reveal that Nambiar was one of those rare Indians who knew about the intimate relationship of Bose with Schenkl. 
 
 “Vappala Balachandran, Sugata Bose, as well as Leonard Gordon have not consulted this British secret file, but they somehow affirm on the basis of testimonies and hearsays that Bose did marry Schekl,” said More. “As for the affirmation by Madhuri Bose and others that the marriage was conducted according to Hindu rituals, it seems to be a fantasy as we do not know which Hindu priest in Germany presided over it and where. My finding of certain contents of these British intelligence files establishes beyond any doubt the non-marital status of one of the greatest freedom-fighters of India,” said More.
 
 
