NEW DELHI:   has got a new kind of barricades. The standard barricade, for long, has been a chink in Delhi Police’s armour as protesters often manage to climb over them to enter prohibited zones. After taking over, police commissioner Amulya Patnaik had asked for the designing of new   for more effective crowd control during dharnas and demonstrations. 

 Special CP Dependra Pathak, who is also Delhi Police’s chief spokesperson, said the induction of the new design has already begun and around 800 of these would be used in New Delhi and central districts apart from other places for law and order reasons. 
 
 So, what’s unique about the new barricade design? “The two sides of this barricade have been designed differently. The side facing the protesters has a plain and slippery sheet; the other side has provisions for policemen to stand on it to interact with or watch the protesters,” Pathak said. 
 
 In these barricades, there is no way in which one could scale it from any side except for the side the policeman is standing on. There is no way any protester can hold a grip as there’s a thick wire mesh too.
 
 There are grooves on the inward side for joining barricades, which result in a wall that cannot be breached. There is also an additional provision of using ropes to bind several barricades together. “As you can see, these are much heavier, stronger and sturdier too,” Pathak added. The older barricade weighs up to 140kg; the new one weighs up to 195kg. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (P&L)   said these barricades have more mobility despite being heavier as ball bearings have been fitted in the wheels for easier movement.
 
 Barricades are an effective way to tackle crime, block protesters and divert or stop traffic on streets for various reasons. Delhi Police manages over 1,000 demonstrations near Parliament and other places in a year. The force has around 5,000 barricades. 
 
 Five years ago, a proposal for procurement of around 5,500-6,000 barricades had been submitted. Over the years, various samples were put on display, presentations were made by manufacturers, and some were even used for demonstrations at places. But a lack of consensus on the design could not let the procurement materialise. 
 
 As a result, police have been using the old barricades. A majority of them are difficult to move and have to be repaired regularly. The position of barricades has to be changed frequently based on crime trends or location of protests. Patnaik ensured the proposal he cleared didn’t get stuck. 
 
 
