Madurai: The rides on the four-lane national highways are supposed to be smooth for users who also pay toll to use these roads unlike the state highways. However, the rides on these highways are becoming bumpy with too many potholes on roads. National Highway Authority of India officials however, said that overlay works have been commissioned and roads will be repaired in couple of months. Madurai is connected to NH 44 (old number 7), NH 744 (old number 208), NH 85 (old number 49 and 230) and NH 38 (old number 45B). There are two toll gates situated on these highways in Madurai districts- one at Chittampatti near Melur and another at Kappalur near Thirumangalam. Among the highways crisscrossing the district, Madurai – Theni stretch is under construction and yet to be brought under toll, even though toll gates have been constructed along the stretch. National highway 744 still remains a two-lane highway with too many curves and is yet to be brought under toll. Among the four-lane highways, a 50 km stretch from Samayanallur till Virudhunagar outskirts on NH 44 is in bad shape. The stretches in NH 38 towards Trichy are also not in good condition according to motorists. President, Madurai District Lorry Owners Association, C Sathiah said that they are contemplating on filing writ petitions at high court considering the poor quality of roads. “Toll is an important component in truck operation and we pay so much of money to get through toll gates. It is not fair to collect so much money and provide such potholed roads,” he said. Though potholes are not a problem between Madurai and Tuticorin stretch, trucks and lorries carrying heavy loads leave the road uneven. “One has to be cautious while navigating through this stretch in cars because the uneven road can make us lose the balance,” said S Ramalingam from Madurai, a frequent traveller on national highways. Between the two toll gates in Madurai district, Kappalur toll gate has become infamous among local people ever since its inception in 2010. Thirumangalam residents have been objecting to the spot where toll gate is situated and it was caught in numerous scuffles and court cases. After prolonged protests, the toll fee for locally registered vehicles has been kept nominal.  Citing poor condition of roads, Madurai bench over public interest litigation (PIL) ordered NHAI to collect half rate of the toll fee till the roads are repaired and postponed the case to next hearing in March. “They are supposed to collect half of Rs 30from local registration cars after court verdict. But people manning toll said it is applicable only for commercial vehicles. ,” said S Emmanuel, a catholic priest residing in city outskirts. NHAI, project director for Madurai, V Saravanan said that the works will be completed before June this year,