Trichy: Heading to a post office in the city for purchasing a postcard? Chances are high for you to end up buying a custom-print postcard of   corporation promoting awareness about the importance of segregation of waste at source. The urban local body in coordination with the postal department here has printed awareness messages on segregation of waste in as many as 1 lakh postcards, and the custom-print postcards will be available for the public in the post offices across the city.

 With the representatives of Swachh Survekshan, a pan India cleanliness survey conducted through   (SBM) are yet to ascertain the cleanliness parameters in the city to grade Trichy. Utilizing the last-minute time available, Trichy corporation has been focusing on capacity building activities. After releasing a short film emphasising the importance of a citizen’s responsibility to keep the city clean and free from litters, it has tied hands with   in Trichy to print around 1 lakh postcards. “The postcards would serve as a carrier of awareness message not only to the locals but also to the receivers who would probably hail from other cities or even other parts of India. People need to be reminded very often about the importance of segregating the waste at the source which could well save the human resource and money spent while segregating the waste in dump or compost yards,” corporation commissioner N Ravichandran said. It is said that the postcards have two coloured columns, blue and green. The blue coloured one lists the various non-biodegradable waste which should be dumped in blue bins. And the green coloured column lists various degradable wastes that are ought to be dumped in green bins.
 
 Besides this postcard initiative, Trichy corporation has also deployed a vehicle each for four zones namely Srirangam, Ariyamangalam, K Abishekapuram, and Ponmalai. The vehicles equipped with audio-video gadgets would be screening the short film ‘Mudhalidam Nokki’ (Towards first place) produced by Trichy corporation in public places to fan behavioural change. The postcard launched on Friday at the corporation office by the commissioner was received by A  , director postal services, central region.
 
 
