BENGALURU: Advocates on Monday began a week-long relay hunger strike here in protest against the delay in appointment of judges to the Karnataka high court as well as what they termed 'step-motherly treatment' of the state government in appointment of judges to the higher judiciary. 

 Former Advocates Generals of the state BV Acharya,  , Udaya Holla and  , co-chairman of Bar Council of India Y R  , President of Advocates Association of Bengaluru A P Ranganath, Additional Advocate Generals of the state AG Shivanna and A S Ponnanna led the strike outside the Golden Jubilee Gate of the high court. They demanded immediate appointment of judges to the high court.
 
    minister for statistics and programme implementation D V Sadananda Gowda went to the spot along with former Karnataka law minister S  . 
 
 Admitting that it's a regrettable situation, Gowda, a former Union law minister, requested the advocates to withdraw their agitation while assuring them that he would do everything possible with regard to the eight appointment recommendations pending before the central government.
 
 Later, chief minister Siddaramaiah, accompanied by state law minister T B Jayachandra, too landed there. While expressing solidarity with the advocates' fraternity, he assured them he would take up the issue with the Prime Minister.
 
 He agreed with the view of protesting lawyers that Karnataka gets step-motherly treatment as only two names from Karnataka have been cleared since July 1, 2017 while 150 appointments have been made across the country.
 
 Despite the strike, proceedings in the high court were not affected in any way.
 
  'Other states better' 
 
 * Other states are in a better situation than us. Of the 1,000-odd posts of high court judges, currently 600 are filled which means the vacancy is about 40%. However, our working strength is below 40% as we have only 24 judges against a sanctioned strength of 62.
 
 BV Acharya | former AG
 
 * Never in our history have we had such a situation. We have only 24 judges. It's nothing but a serious drought situation in our judiciary. The delay in appointment of judges to the Karnataka high court is affecting justice delivery. It'll cause serious threat to the rule of law as well as the Constitution.
 
 Ravivarma Kumar | former AG
 
 * Other high courts are in a better situation. Take our neighbour Kerala - the vacancy is very less. We have had only two appointments since last July. Even in the appointment of Chief Justices, we got a raw deal as nobody is from Karnataka is heading any high court in the country.
 
 Y R Sadashiva Reddy | co-chairman, Bar Council of India
 
 
