Singer  's tracks are part of the four big movies that are currently running in Kerala theatres -  , Kamuki, Ente Peru Surya Ente Veedu India and Kammarasambhavam. In fact, all his tracks last year - from   in Godha and Saare Njangal in Queen to Chekkanum Pennum in Chunkzz and Changathi Nannayal in Aadu 2 have topped the charts, and yet few know the voice behind them is a 31-year-old from Thrikkakara, Kochi.

 "It's true," agrees the coy musician. "I have worked in about 50 movies and majority of my tracks have a sufi tinge, so people think it's someone coming from Bollywood who is singing it. A few weeks ago, I met Vinay Forrt for the first time and he told me that he thought it was Sukhwinder Singh coming here to render these tracks. Jayasurya had mentioned it too."
 
 His latest track Ya Ilhai from  's BTech would probably only compliment that claim, with its soulful   rendition adding that desired emotion to the movie's plot. "Music director Rahul Raj, lyricist Nasir Ibrahim and I got together and worked on Ya Ilahi hardly 10 days before the movie's release. The song was crucial to the story, and in a way I am also fortunate that it's success has led to more offers," he says.
 
 Qawwali has charmed Zia since childhood. "My father used to play the harmonium, my grandmother used to sing and mother has sung for Akashvani radio," he says. "After my Class XII, I left to Sangeeth Sandhana Mandir in Pachmarhi, Madhya Pradesh. Then I used frequently visit the Nizamuddin Dargah to learn about Sufi songs and later joined Inayath Khan Music Academy in Delhi," he says.
 
 It was musician George Peter who paved the way for his film stint, that began with the Tamil film Madrasapattinam. "The film's music director GV Prakash were looking for a voice similar to Sukhwinder Singh. George sir told him that he knew someone. He rang me up and asked me to sing the track. I did and then he tells me that GV Prakash was also on the line. They told me they would get back, and that night itself they asked to get to Chennai because the song was to be recorded next morning," says Zia. "Even when I sang the track, I believed that was just a demo. But when the album released, I got to know that it was duet with Hariharan sir."
 
 The same team then roped him for Thalapathy Thalapthy in Vijay-starrer Thalaiva. After that he was part of several projects - singing full tracks, re-recordings and situational songs. The big break in Malayalam though came last year via O Rabba, which was composed by Shaan Rahman. 
 
 A look at his discography would reveal that he hasn't just stuck to the sufi melodies. For instance, in composers Jakes Bejoy's Queen and Gopi Sunder's Aadu 2, he has sung up-tempo numbers. "I think my vocals suits all types of songs, so that has helped," he says. "Also, I am glad that the movies have gone on to do well and that has helped the songs reach a wider audience."
 
 When he's not busy singing film songs, Zia tours the country as part of Kerala's first Qawwali band  . "We perform at a lot of dargahs in North as well as South India, especially on holy occasions," he says. Zia has also travelled to around 39 countries as part of the Soorya Festival and has been part of several albums including Anwar Aman's Ajmer Khwaja and Ratheesh Vega's Ali Maula. 
 
 He is also one of the few Malayalam singers to be roped in for dubbed tracks of Telugu songs, the latest being for the Allu Arjun-starrer Ente Peru Surya that was composed by Vishal-Shekhar duo.
 
 "The lyricist of the Malayalam version, Siju Thuravoor, wanted the vocals to match the original Telugu songs and that's how I came onboard. Initially, it was just one song. But after he listened to the track, he wanted me to try another one, which was markedly different from the previous song. One was a melody and other an upbeat number," he says.
 
 Zia is now looking forward to sing original tracks in other South industries and has already bagged projects in Tamil and Kannada. In Malayalam, his songs will next be featured in Mammootty's Oru Kuttanadan Blog and Asif Ali's Mandaaram.
 
