COIMBATORE: P  , who has been listed as one of the beneficiaries under the Swachh Bharat mission, is a resident of 3/179, Rangaya Thottam. She said her daughters had constructed toilets in her home three years ago. “More than 10 house owners in my area repainted their old toilets and posed in front of them. We were all paid Rs3000 for it,” said Saraswathi. It is not just her. A visit around K Madhapur village and conversations with other beneficiaries revealed a huge scam.

 Saraswathi said that in February 2017, “I was washing clothes in the street corner. Suddenly, one official called me to pose in front of my neighbour’s toilet that was constructed under the Swachh Bharat Mission. I told them that I would not pose. But they forced me to,” she said.  , another resident, was made to repaint her existing toilet and pose in front of it.
 
 The case of   is even more appalling. A resident of   now, Pavithra was staying in a relative’s rented home in July last year. “We do not have our own house. Some officials called me to pose in front of a toilet. I was really scared as it was not my house. But they said nothing would happen and I ended up posing for the photograph,” she said. Her name is not in the list of the beneficiaries, but her photograph has been uploaded.
 
  and his wife   have a different story to tell. “We constructed two toilets in our home. They told us they will give us the money for it. But we got paid only for one toilet. For the other, we were not paid at all,” he said. Many residents also complained about the bad quality of construction. A resident said she had not used the toilet for more than a week. “The soak pit does not have enough rings and the sewage keeps overflowing. I paid Rs4,600 for this toilet,” said an official.
 
 Under this scheme, the central government sanctions Rs12,000 to the village panchayat, which has to give it to the residents, to construct a toilet. In some cases, the residents construct it themselves and in some cases officials help them by allotting engineers to complete the construction.
 
 C Saravanan, a social worker in the village who exposed the malpractices, said that it was not just this panchayat; such scams are common in every village and town panchayat in the state. “Villagers are not aware of many central government schemes. They are misled by officials and brokers and become victims,” he said. He added that he sought an enquiry into the issue and permission to inspect the manner in which the scheme was implemented. “Every time they permit us to conduct inspection, the officials would tell us to come another day as they were busy. It is only through the website that we culled out entire information,” he said.
 
 Block development officer of the panchayat  , when informed about this, said she will conduct an enquiry. “There are some agents and brokers who mislead people. Also, these toilets are constructed not just under the Swachh Bharat mission, but also under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. So, the residents may not be aware of it,” she said.
 
 
