CHENNAI: For all those players who make a seamless transition to international cricket from the U-19 level, there are an equal number who fall by the wayside soon after. South Africa’s  , though, belongs to a rare breed. Having represented South Africa in U-19 cricket in the early 2000s, Hanekom chose to switch to golf all of a sudden. The decision has reaped rewards for the 33-year-old, who is taking part in the second edition of the   Championship.

 A teammate of South African stalwarts like   and   during his U-19 days, Hanekom’s focus now is entirely on making a success out of his golf career. Talking about how the switch from cricket to golf came about, he explained: “Like all kids in Afrikaans schools, I played cricket and rugby too as a youngster. Cricket was my first love. I played for South Africa U-19s at the same time as the likes of Hashim Amla and AB de Villiers. I still love watching cricket, but I just lost the motivation to continue playing the game. I got attracted to the individuality of golf and decided to shift focus.”
 
 Hanekom’s connection with de Villiers doesn’t stop there. He was a classmate of the star batsman as well as current South African captain Faf du Plessis at the famous Afrikaanse Hoer Seunskool in Pretoria.
 
 “I studied in school alongside AB and Faf. Other than them, there was also Neil Wagner and Kruger van Wyk, both of whom have played for New Zealand. That specific school team was probably the best school team ever in the world. Heino Kuhn, who has also played for SA, was there too. It’s incredible that a school team produced so many international cricketers in such a short period. Most South African records in school cricket were made during those two years. If you look at that team, AB was actually the fifth or sixth best player. He was always a good cricketer, but it’s hard to imagine the heights he has reached,” said Hanekom, who turned professional back in 2003.
 
 As the conversation veers towards the topic of transformation policies and quotas in South African sport, Hanekom offers a grim insight into its all-encompassing influence.
 
 “The transformation policies started to take effect around the early 2000s. It made my choice to shift from a team sport like cricket to an individual sport like golf easier. I don’t think South Africa has got it right. Such things don’t help your motivation, especially as a youngster. You can’t be including people just to make up the numbers. In cricket thankfully, the likes of Kagiso Rabada and Lungi Ngidi are starting to come through now. They are genuinely world class. It affects us a lot more in rugby, where so many top players have shifted allegiance to other countries to escape the politics.
 
 
