NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old man   in   during a   celebrating the   of his   in outer Delhi’s   late on Thursday. Ironically, the pistol used by the accused belonged to the victim.

 
 The victim, Praveen, a businessman, lived with his wife and two sons aged nine and 11 years at Jhajjar. Around 11pm, the PCR got a call from Praveen’s relative after which a police team rushed to the spot and took him to Ambedkar Hospital. He was declared brought dead there.
 
 
  
 
 Praveen used to run a mobile shop near his house and had come to attend the function at his younger brother Amarjeet’s house in Sultanpur Dabas of Bawana.
 
 Amarjeet had become a father of twin boys on Wednesday afternoon. He got them home on Thursday and decided to host a party by inviting his relatives. 
 
 An elated Praveen left his house along with his wife and two sons immediately after getting the good news. He reached his brother’s house by 5pm and they both started preparing for the impromptu function.
 
 The relatives and close friends started consuming alcohol at the party. A couple of hours later, Praveen’s wife started feeling unwell and told him about it. He asked a relative to drop her and the children back home. He told his wife that he would stay back to help his brother wrap up the party.
 
 While they were on the dance floor, one of Praveen’s close friends, Pramod, asked him for his automatic pistol that he had recently bought from Haryana. 
 
 “Pramod started dancing with Praveen and after a while pointed towards his pocket through which he could see the pistol butt. He told Praveen that he wanted to see it. Praveen gave him the pistol after Pramod promised not to fire it,” a cop quoted Amarjeet as saying.
 
 Amarjeet also told police that after sometime Pramod asked Praveen if he could fire the gun once. “He said that he really liked the pistol and was curious about how it worked. Since all of us were a little drunk, Praveen agreed to let him check it. We didn’t think that he would actually fire it. As soon as we heard the gunshot, we saw Praveen holding his chest and crying for help. He was bleeding profusely,” the victim’s brother added.
 
 The bullet hit Praveen in his right upper rib, killing him on the spot. “He was rushed to the hospital, but he had actually died by then. A case was registered against Pramod at Bawana police station and he has been arrested,” said a senior police officer.
 
 The victim’s family are yet to come to terms with their loss and have refused to talk to anyone.
 
 
