Of late, the inception of anti-ragging cells in colleges has been successful in curbing the practice to a certain extent. 

 Despite implementing strict rules and taking stringent action against students responsible, a few instances of students being subjected to both physical and mental harassment have intermittently reared its ugly head in the State.
 
 The latest incident of reported ragging was that of Muhammad Fasal, a first year B Com student from SCMS College, Kochi, who was allegedly beaten up by a bunch of seniors from the college. While the police is yet to determine what actually happened, the college authorities have made it known that if it actually turns out to be a ragging case, the required disciplinary steps will be taken.
 
 We ask a few students if ragging is still prevalent in colleges in the State, how it can affect the morale of the students and junior-senior dynamics:
 
 ‘Resorting to heinous means cannot be encouraged in any way’
 Alvin Jewel SS, Government Law College, Ernakulam
 
 In most cases, the same seniors who initially indulge in casual ragging and banter later turn out to be the best of friends. In my case, funny interactive sessions have fostered good friendships, and it gives the fresher the needed exposure in college as they enter a completely new environment. If the exchange is limited to a healthy communication, it is justified. That said, resorting to heinous means of physical abuse to newcomers cannot be encouraged in any way. Harming a person cannot be someone’s entertainment. If the senior students cross the line of fun and it becomes harassment, then it is completely valid that the student concerned takes the case forward legally.
 
 ‘High time authorities took stronger measures than anti-ragging cell’
 Ralph Robert, University of Kerala
 
 Ragging is a vice that should be stopped in all possible forms on a campus. So far, I have been blessed to have seniors who never had to depend on any form of ragging to ‘introduce’ themselves. People who do this with whatever agenda should be punished severely to stop them from repeating it. We have already witnessed countless number of students suffer in the name of ragging. Apart from getting the senior students to discontinue the academic course, I haven’t come across any further action in comparison to the victim, who suffers both mentally and physically. It’s high time the authorities initiated stronger measures than just implementing the basic anti-ragging cell, which is not even active in most of the campuses. We should also not forget the fact that a person who is ragged as a junior eventually does the same to his juniors when he becomes a senior. We must break this chain and stop the reaction.
 
 
 ‘My experiences have made me empathetic towards my juniors’
 Dona Francis, Bharata Matha College, Ernakulam
 
 When a student starts college life, ragging is undoubtedly a major problem that their tender hearts experience. I had joined the Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery in a college in Mangalore with a lot of hope and aspirations. However, I was subjected to a few bad experiences. My seniors used to wake me up at around 1 am and make me write their assignments. There was not even a moment when I was spared from the tormenting experience, neither during college hours nor at the hostel. The stress piled up for about eight months because of which I had to drop out from the college to later join an arts college in Muvattupuzha. My experiences back then have now moulded me and when I deal with my juniors, I have so much empathy for them. I fail to understand why authorities don’t pay heed to such situations, because if unattended, they can scar you for life. Seniors can’t gain respect through ragging but through friendly interventions. If there was such an approach, many students would not have lost the precious years of their education and indirectly, their careers. Teachers and authorities should stop passively supporting the students who rag and start openly reacting against it.
 
 ‘Ragging’s meaning and face changed with time’
 Ismail Raizwan, CUSAT
 
 When a student starts college life, ragging is undoubtedly a major problem that their tender hearts experience. I had joined the Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery in a college in Mangalore with a lot of hope and aspirations. However, I was subjected to a few bad experiences. My seniors used to wake me up at around 1 am and make me write their assignments. There was not even a moment when I was spared from the tormenting experience, neither during college hours nor at the hostel. The stress piled up for about eight months because of which I had to drop out from the college to later join an arts college in Muvattupuzha. My experiences back then have now moulded me and when I deal with my juniors, I have so much empathy for them. I fail to understand why authorities don’t pay heed to such situations, because if unattended, they can scar you for life. Seniors can’t gain respect through ragging but through friendly interventions. If there was such an approach, many students would not have lost the precious years of their education and indirectly, their careers. Teachers and authorities should stop passively supporting the students who rag and start openly reacting against it.
 
 
