Nagpur: In a bid to celebrate the spirit of start-up culture, the Entrepreneurship Forum of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) in association with Lemon Ideas organized “National Entrepreneurship Day” at VIA Hall, Udyog Bhavan, on Tuesday. 

 They conducted a ‘Question and Answer’ session where 16   of different domains from the city discussed various challenges that occur when one starts a business and also gave tips to deal with them.
 
 VIA and Lemon Ideas recognized their efforts and felicitated them at the beginning of the programme. From identifying passion, shaping the idea, conducting market analysis, upgrading the product and branding, the youngsters shared their part of the story to motivate and promote entrepreneurship.
 
 Chairman of the forum Akash Agrawal, president of VIA Atul Pande, Deepak Maneria and Mukesh Asher from Lemon Ideas were present on the dais.
 
 “PM Narendra Modi announced a host of benefits and schemes to facilitate start-up ecosystem in India on January 16, 2016. The move has proved to be very impactful as more and more people are moving towards entrepreneurship,” said Maneria.
 
 Emphasizing on the advantages of doing business, he said, “It is flexible where you can make this happen your way and there are no perquisites required as you can execute your ideas any time. Low-cost and even zero budget start-ups are a reality now. The taboo regarding failures should be washed off our society to encourage taking risks and learning through experience.”
 
 The mentors from Lemon Ideas stood for ‘co-creation’ instead of ‘competition’ and asked the aspiring entrepreneurs to collaborate with like-minded ones to enhance the ideas and grow collectively.
 
 High school dropout and co founder of ‘The Climber’ Asad Dhamani, whose company helps students discover and pursue their passion, Shikha Khare, eduprenuer and co-founder of ‘UP Skill centre for vocational and Professional excellence’, Simran and Anchal Suri, co-founder at Go for Chai which serves tea brewed with natural ingredients to almost 20 corporate, were among the inspirational youths.
 
 Finding the right employees at the right time, was the query put up by the attendees to which they suggested that filtering the list, scrutinizing and recognizing the special skill of every individual to bring out the best in them will serve the purpose.
 
 They also informed that market survey can vary with the business model. Arpit Agrawal, managing director of Anchal Plast India, said, “I introduced the idea of orange fruit crates which helped farmers in the city get value for their oranges. I could not analyze the market to predict the sale of my product as it was exclusive, but my confidence pushed me towards taking the risk and it became a big hit.”
 
 The youngsters also asked the attendees not to worry about market acceptance and get on the field before someone else steals the thunder. Once the product is launched, constant feedbacks from consumers can help in upgrading and improvising.
 
 
