Actor  's sudden death last year came as a shock to many. He died of a heart attack at 44. Almost 10 months after his death, a selfie   is doing the rounds, in which an inebriated Inder can be seen talking about wanting to commit suicide. He also blames himself and says that his bad habits had ruined his life. Ever since, the video has gone viral and people have been speculating whether Inder's death was a case of suicide. Putting all rumours to rest, Inder's wife   Kumar, a former television actress, has confirmed that it is a scene from his upcoming film, 'Phati Padi Hai Yaar'. Incidentally, she is one of the producers of the film and hence, is also being accused of leaking the clip for publicity. BT talks to Pallavi about these allegations. Excerpts...

 
 Recently, a relative of mine brought it to my notice. It is a clip from our movie, 'Phati Padi Hai Yaar'. What you see Inder saying in the video is not connected with reality at all. This is the subject of the film and this scene is the turning point in the story. I'm sure when the film releases, people are going to appreciate his work.
 
 
 I’m still fighting Inder’s case in court. Why would I do something like this for publicity, and make things difficult for me? I want to clear Inder's name in the rape case and so, I have filed a petition in court. When someone is accused of rape, it's not just that person, but his entire family that gets affected. Tomorrow when my daughter Svanaa looks up her father's name online, what will she get to read? That he was a rapist! I am going to fight this out. I want the world to know that he wasn't a rapist. About the film clip which has been leaked, we will file a complaint with Western India Film Producers' Association and try to find out who has done it.
 
 
  
 
 Everyone had this wrong perception that he was going through depression at that point. He was fine and was enjoying fatherhood. He was very happy that he could spend time with our daughter, who is now five-and-a-half years old. Career-wise, too, he was okay; it’s not true that he wasn't getting films. He tasted success in the 90s, so yes, he was choosy about the work he wanted to do. There was also this perception that Salman bhai ( ) ki picture mein nahin hai, toh kuch bhi nahi kar raha hai. Inder may have done three films with Salman bhai, but their association wasn’t just restricted to that. Bhai was like an elder brother to him and the only friend he had in the industry, who always encouraged him. Inder had suffered a serious accident, but he managed to bounce back. He may not have been doing A-grade films, but he was doing smaller movies and short films. Everything was going fine until that day when he just didn't wake up.
 
 
 Every marriage has its share of ups and downs. Inder and I were always close friends; we got married much later in 2010. I have lost my best friend. My daughter and I are trying to cope with our loss. She was very attached to her father. All this has made her strong and I can see that she tries to take care of me in her own little way. 
 
 
 I want to and I am working towards that. I have been trying to lose weight and hopefully, I should be back soon.
 
