NEW DELHI: A   observed that   cases are on the rise and it is a “great responsibility” of the police to investigate such cases diligently. However, the court acquitted a man, accused under Section 354 (assault on a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC, terming the same responsibility as a “causalty” in the case involving a minor girl.

 The accused was chargesheeted for rape, but convicted by a magisterial court under the lesser charge of assault. While acquitting the man, Additional Sessions Judge Santosh Snehi Mann said that the trial court did not consider the aspect of dispute over land and money between the girl’s family and the accused.
 
 The judge, at the same time, did not want to “fail in the duty” by not commenting on the “lacunas” in the police investigation. “There is a great responsibility on the investigating agency to investigate such cases diligently, which has been a casualty in this case,” it asserted.
 
 The man relied on the “inconsistencies” in the statements of the girl and her parents, to contest his conviction and the consequent eight-month jail term.
 
 The 12-year-old girl alleged that on April 5, 2012 her parents were away at work and she was at home with her brothers when the accused came and gave Rs 10 each to the brothers and sent them out of the house. He then sexually assaulted the girl, the prosecution alleged. When the brothers returned and “witnessed the crime”, the accused fled. A day later, the girl told her mother about the incident and an FIR was registered.
 
 The mother’s   revealed that there had been a confrontation between the accused and the girl’s parents. But she denied having an altercation on April, 7, 2012. She also mentioned about giving a loan to the accused’s elder brother. Refuting the allegations, the accused argued that on April 7, 2012, the girl’s mother came to his house and said that he should persuade his brother to return the money. When he asked her not to come to his house again, she left but returned with her husband and quarrelled with him. The accused was arrested the same day. 
 
 The court noted that surprisingly, neither of the girl’s brothers were called as witnesses. 
 
 
