DHARWAD?DAVANAGERE: Eleven candidates including four sitting MLAs filed their   papers in   district on Friday. The candidates, who came to the respective election Returning Officer in a small group and submitted the papers have planned to submit another set of papers by taking out a grand procession on another auspicious day before the deadline ends on April 24.

 The HDMC premises where the RO for Hubballi-Dharwad West Constituency is situated and the assistant commissioner’s office where RO for Dharwad (71) is housed turned into a fortress with CRPF jawans and armed police guarding them. Over 30 CRPF jawans were deployed at the RO office to check untoward incidents. However, the candidates from Congress and BJP came to the RO office with only a handful of supporters and filed their nomination papers.
 
 District minister  , who is contesting on Congress ticket from Dharwad-71 filed his papers at the AC office at around 12:30 pm. He was accompanied by his wife Shivaleela.
 
 Another candidate Basavaraj Uddinkopp contesting on Azad Majdoor Kisan Party too filed papers for the same constituency.
 
 Sitting MLA and BJP candidate from Hubballi-Dharwad West constituency Arvind Bellad filed his papers at the RO office in the HDMC building in Dharwad. Accompanied by wife Smriti and advocate Arun Joshi, Arvind filed two sets of nomination papers without B form.
 
 Sitting JD(S) MLA N H Konraddi filed his papers at the tahsildar’s office in Navalgund. Farmer leader Loknath Hebsur too filed papers as independent candidate from the constituency.
 
 Kundgol sitting MLA C S Shivalli filed papers on a Congress ticket. Hajrath Ali Allasab Sheikh filed papers from the same constituency on a JD(U) ticket, while Yallappa Hanumanthappa Dabgondi field nomination papers as an independent candidate. In Hubballi-Dharwad Central, Mallikarjun (Rajanna) Murusavirappa Koravi filed his papers as a JD(S) candidate. Dr Mahesh Nalwad filed his sets of nomination papers as Congress candidate, while Ayyappa Shirkol filed papers as an independent.
 
 However, no nominations papers were filed from Hubballi-Dharwad East constituency and Kalghatgi.
 
 ‘Will passify dissidents’
 
 Speaking after filing his, district in-charge minister Vinay Kulkarni said he was confident of retaining his seat due to the development works carried out by the Congress government. He said symbolically filed his papers on Friday and would hold a show of strength on April 23 wherein he will file another set of papers along with a B form.
 
 To a query on dissidence by Deepak Chinchore and former minister S R More, Kulkarni said they were unhappy for missing the ticket and they would be given a suitable position after the party comes to power. “Already, talks are on with both the leaders to pacify them and we are appealing them not to contest as rebels,” he said.
 
 18 candidates file their
 
 nominations in Davanagere
 
  As many as 18 candidates have filed their nominations from the various constituencies of Davanagere district on Friday. Prominent among them are senior Congress leader Shamanur Shivashankarappa from Davanagere South and his son S S Mallikarjun from Davanagere North. Interestingly, both of them have filed two sets of papers. Their opponenets from BJP Yeshvanthrao Jadav and S A Ravindranath, respectively also fined their nominations.
 
 Mahima J Patel, the son of late former chief minister J H Patel filed his nomination from Channagiri on JD(U) ticket. His opponents are K Madal Virupakshappa of BJp and Vadnal Rajanna from Congress.
 
 Congress has fielded S Ramappa from Harihar, where B P Harish is contesting for BJP. JD (S) candidates Sheela Naik and Devendrappa filed their papers from fron Mayakonda and Jagalur, respectively .
 
 
