The   coordinated by the International Council of Museums was observed worldwide on May 18, and it was a week filled with celebrations with regard to the various museums in our country’s different states.

 Many museums in Kochi itself joined hands and conducted various events in remembrance of the 40 years since it was kick-started, and one of them include Museum of Kerala History’s two-day long event. The theme for the International Museum Day, 2018 at the event was ‘Hyperconnected museums: New approaches, new public’.
 
 ‘Abhimukham with Sahapedia’ had collaborated with the Museum of Kerala History, Edapally, as part of Sahapedia’s monthly event Abhimukham, where experts talked on a variety of subjects such as art, literature, culture and heritage.
 
 The topic for this year’s programme included ‘Museums, Social Inclusions and Accessibility,’ was commemorated by the organisers. It threw light on the survival of museums, which is at stake due to the external competitions like entertainment agencies, theme parks, cinema theatres and the like. It also focussed on the internal problems such as low budget for maintaining infrastructure, lack of trained staff, poor innovation and motivation as well as inadequate strategy to attract visitors. The strategy for the survival of museums included the basic five questions, ‘what, why, where, who and how’, according to them.
 
 A lecture by B Venugopal, Honorary Director at the Centre for Intangible Heritage Studies, SSUS Kalady, who is popularly known as the Former Director at the National Museum of Natural History, New Delhi, was conducted om May 18.
 
 On May 20, an ‘ArtWalk’ led by Aditi Nayar, which was a guided tour of the exhibition ‘Collecting the Artist’ in the Gallery of Contemporary Indian Art, was also initiated. Along with that, there were other satirical performances such as Chakyar Koothu, performed by Kalamandalam Jishnu Prathap. “We must try as much as possible to make every museum be a ‘Museum for all’. Through hyper-connectivity, we can implement new strategies thereby bringing in new visitors such as differently-abled people as well. With this, I hope we can make sure that our museums survive”, concluded Venugopal, when asked about his future ambitions as a museum lover.
 
 - Anna Mariam Ittyerah
 
 Below are a few more pictures from the event:-
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
