BENGALURU: The city’s traffic crawl is taking a toll on its public transport with   losing over 1.5 lakh km per day over the past five years. 

 Records with BMTC show the total average daily distance covered by its buses has come down from 13.1 lakh km in 2013-14 to 11.6 lakh km in 2017-18, despite its fleet strength going up from 6,473 to 6,600 during this period. This means the average daily distance covered by each BMTC bus has reduced from 218km to 206km during this period.
 
 Many BMTC drivers admit they are unable to complete targeted trips, owing to congestion on roads. Bengaluru’s vehicular population has increased from 50.5 lakh to 72.6 lakh in the last five years, reducing the average speed in most parts of the city to 10kmph during peak hours.
 
 However, the corporation hasn’t been successful in redesigning routes and trip timings and it ended up cancelling many bus schedules. According to BMTC records, the cancellation rate of buses has gone up from 4.8% to 15% between 2013-14 and 2017-18.
 
 As per BMTC norms, its buses are to cover a kilometre in three minutes, but officials admit it takes more than double that time in the  .
 
 “It’s becoming increasingly difficult to complete trips as per the running time fixed by the corporation. If we don’t complete a trip within the stipulated time, they will deny us incentives and also initiate departmental action,” said a BMTC driver on Banashankari-ITPL route.
 
 “We are under pressure because of the unscientific time chart and also the rise in the number of vehicles, particularly two-wheelers, which are notorious for rash driving. Who wants to drive through this heavy traffic?” he added.
 
 
 
 
 While intelligent transport system (ITS) helps BMTC monitor its buses using GPS, the utility has made little progress in route rationalisation. BMTC has access to crucial data like optimal routes, peak hours and location-based passenger demand through ITS. However, it doesn’t have an expert team to process and interpret this data. 
 
 BMTC officials said they are tweaking some existing bus routes with the help of a few NGOs based on ITS data, but admitted that the exercise hasn’t been scaled up.
 
 Dr Ashish Verma, mobility expert and associate professor, transportation systems engineering at   (IISc), said, “BMTC should come up with a scientific route and rationalization of schedule to complement Namma Metro and also provide inter-modal connectivity to passengers.”
 
 He pointed out that BMTC should understand it is no longer the sole public transport utility in the city. “It should focus on short routes instead of the traditional long-distance ones to beat the traffic and also ensure regular frequency of buses. Short-route buses will help provide better reliable services,” he felt, adding that IISc has teamed up with BMTC to use ITS-generated data to help them in route rationalization.
 
 H V Ananta Subbarao, general secretary of   staff and workers’ federation, said: “BMTC should carry out a proper scientific study for route rationalization after analysing the number of bus stops, traffic signals, vehicle speed and time taken for boarding and alighting. The routes and running time were fixed several years ago and the traffic pattern has changed over the years due to rise in the number of vehicles.”
 
 
 
 BMTC has been pushing for dedicated lanes for its buses to prioritise the public transport system. Traffic police are not in favour of separate lanes for buses as they would reduce road space and increase traffic congestion. 
 
 Similarly, Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) was mooted on the Outer Ring Road (ORR). The proposal, however, was shelved as the state government decided to go for Metro instead of BRTS on ORR.
 
 
