TRICHY: With major as well as medium and small scale manufacturers finding tier-1 cities costly for operations, the time is ripe for the government to fasttrack the long pending industrial park project in   taluk. The project has entered a crucial phase with just environmental clearance being awaited from the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF). 

 Once the clearance is obtained, the State Industries Promotion Corporation of   ( ) would work on the layout for the industrial park to establish basic amenities before inviting investors. 
 
 Despite being the central region in the state, with well connected road and railway networks, Trichy’s potential has been largely untapped except for auxiliary units supplying components to Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL). Foreseeing the need to ensure growth of industries by establishing industrial parks across the state, particularly in tier-2 cities, the state government had in 2013 announced that an industrial park would be established in the district. 
 
 Subsequently, the industries department in May 2013 accorded administrative sanction for acquisition of 1,050 acres of land identified across Kannudaiyanpatti, K Periyapatti and   villages in Manapparai taluk. The land acquisition process which commenced in July 2013 was completed over the years and recently in January 2018 a written communique from SIPCOT stated that the revenue department had handed over the acquired land to SIPCOT.
 
 “We have completed the land acquisition process and handed over 1,050 acres of land to SIPCOT. Further progress lies with SIPCOT,” said A Basheer, district revenue officer. 
 
 As entrepreneurs in the district have acknowledged the need to move away from the fabrication sector and foray into other viable sectors, industrialists in the city claimed that the industrial park would receive good patronage among investors. 
 
 “Till now the manufacturing sector in Trichy has been heavily dependent on BHEL. We need to explore new sectors to diversify our presence. The industrial park in Manapparai, if available with perks from the state government, would act as a catalyst,” said N Kanagasabapathy, president of Trichy District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association. 
 
 As per the environment impact assessment (EIA) 2006, establishment of the industrial park in Manapparai needs environmental clearance from MoEF. Sources in SIPCOT said that they are awaiting clearance to make progress. “Once we get the clearance, we will study the demand from investors and industrialists in occupying the industrial park. Basic amenities will be provided while making layout for the industrial park. If things go as planned, Manapparai may get the industrial park before 2018,” an official source in SIPCOT told TOI. 
 
 
