THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader   said on Saturday that chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, as home minister, was a colossal failure. He alleged that politicisation and the structural changes introduced in the department have taken a heavy toll on the efficiency of the force. 

 
 Addressing a news conference at his official residence,   claimed the police force was politicised to the extreme after Vijayan assumed charge. "Police should be governed by the spirit of IPC and CrPC not by the diktat of political bosses. Politicizing the police and ignoring its effect on law and order situation is like playing with fire. The chief minister should understand the same. Structural changes recently introduced in the department and politicizing the force are the two prime reasons for the series of police atrocities and custodial deaths in state," he said.
 
 He alleged that explicit subjugation to a particular political party was at recent police association meetings. The government should read the writing on the wall and take steps to ensure discipline among policemen.
 
 "There is no supervision of the work done at police stations. The politicisation and recent structural changes have obliterated the possibility of disciplinary action against policemen at local stations. By anointing CIs as station house officers (SHO), the government has bruised the morale of SIs. Earlier, CIs had to review the crime investigation and other policing activities at a police station where SI was the SHO. Now, SIs have been rendered powerless and CIs are unable to carry out the supervision job. Since SI cadre officials come under SPs, the supervisory line was clear. Now, with CIs being appointed directly by the DGP, other senior officers have no effective control over them. Custodial torture and other undesirable activities at police stations are the result of these unscientific changes," he said.
 
 He said that the   regime was aware of these implications and that was the reason why it did not implement these structural changes that were mooted then.
 
 Chennithala favoured a   probe in Varapuzha custodial death saying that investigation by an external agency would help nab the real culprits. "Murder case should be charged against former   rural SP or the action taken against him would only result in loss of two increments after all the ruckus. If DGP had given him permission to set up a special force, he should own up the same," he said.
 
 Chennithala sought a reinvestigation in the Fazal murder case after a former investigator alleged that   state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had asked him stop probe in the case when he was the home minister in the Achuthanandan cabinet.
 
