KOCHI: Ernakulam rural police would seek custody of  , who was arrested with hashish oil worth Rs2 crore from Perumbavoor.

 A petition seeking custody of Antony for at least six days would be filed before court on Monday.
 
 The police move is in the wake of information that Antony has links with Andhrabased drug rackets. According to PA Faisal, the Perumbavoor sub-inspector, Antony is a seasoned criminal and he gave contradictory statements during the questioning that happened following the arrest.
 
 “Antony was active in the cultivation and selling of ganja in the state until a few years ago. After the crackdown against the sale and production of contraband, he had moved to other states to procure the same. He initially said that it was meant for customers abroad and later changed statement that it was for sale among people from the film industry and party goers,” said Faisal.
 
 On March 12, the accused was arrested with processed ganja in a semi-solid paste form. Ganja is procured in rates as low as Rs500 to Rs1,000 and are sold in rural areas for Rs 20,000 per kg. In cities like Kochi, the price would go as high as even Rs 50,000, said police.
 
 According to police, they are in the process of identifying the source of the drug. Officials have zeroed in on the person, a native of Adimali and member of a major drug racket. “We got information about one more person who gave the contraband to him. However, we are yet to get enough evidence to reach him. We are hoping to find more leads by questioning him again after taking him into custody,” said Faisal.
 
 Faisal said that Antony was among those who rely on ganja farmers in  . “As the risk of cultivating within the state has gone over the roof, people like Antony has been bringing in the contraband through the borders from other states. Apart from buying the contraband, these rackets also take contract for harvesting ganja fields, which are ready to reap. Later, it is brought in either as processed hashish or as raw ganja,” said the officer.
 
 Officials said that the the contraband seized from   was high quality hash. “The ganja paste is so effective that a small amount applied over a cigarette would give the user immediate euphoria,” said police, adding that the accuse0d even had international connections as per his phone records.
 
