BENGALURU: Soon people in the state can avail a host of government documents, including those relating to property from   and similar citizen service centres without the hassle of interacting with government officials. In a huge boon for citizens, the directorate of electronic delivery of citizen services (EDCS) is planning to include about 500 services under  , a platform that offers a bouquet of services to citizens under the Sakala framework.

 
  
  
 
 Some of these services include encumbrance certificate, which is evidence that the property in question is free from any monetary and legal liabilities (issued by the stamps and registration department), registration deeds, trade licences and documents from the health department apart from others.
 
 In a pilot project starting May 19 (Saturday), EDCS will enable citizens to obtain four services — senior citizen cards, library cards to access books from public libraries, birth certificates for international births and death certificate for missing persons (missing for seven years) — at BangaloreOne, Karnataka One,   and any of the 6,000 private citizen service centres (CSC) across the state. Some of these centres are already issuing regular birth and death certificates.
 
 EDCS, which comes under the egovernance department, has been working to integrate services of several departments with a back-end processing system to ensure transparency and accountability.
 
 
 
 Sunil Panwar, director of directorate of EDCS and additional mission director (AMD), Sakala, said the move to make services faceless is aimed at empowering citizens. “Our department developed a new system to process khata applications at B1 centres and then offered it to the BBMP,” Panwar said. “Not only does this increase accountability of officers who are time-bound to process an application, but it also ensures there is a justification for each action taken with an application. With the process being taken online, there is more grasp on numbers and efficiency of operations.” He said that khata service will be extended to other citizen service centres soon.
 
  
  
 
