Mangaluru: The state government has plans to protect the  , which is a rare and endangered species of birds. 

 Punati Shridhar, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) and CEO of the  , said human intervention leads to mass destruction of forests and the environment. “We have plans to protect the Great Indian Bustard, which is found in Karnataka. It is a highly endangered species, and only 150-200 birds are found in the country. Its population is fast vanishing. Hence, we have plans to protect the birds. Very soon, an action plan will be prepared to protect the bird in Karnataka,” he said, at the inaugural of the fourth  ,  , here on Friday. 
 
 “Human intervention not only leads to destruction of the forest, but also wildlife,” he said. “We have been witnessing destruction of forests and animals due to human interference. It is necessary that we need to take precautions to protect our forests. We need to reverse the destruction of forests that took place in the past 50-100 years. The days are not far when we witness the consequences of such mass destruction of forests,” he added. 
 
 Talking about the Hakki Habba, he said, “The main objective is to create awareness on birds, and thereby protect various endangered species in Karnataka.”
 
 Minister for forest, environment and ecology, B Ramanath Rai, said in his inaugural speech, that Karnataka has the maximum number of bird sanctuaries in the nation. “After successful Hakki Habba events in Ranganathittu, Dandeli and Ballari, we are holding the festival in the coastal city. The festival will make all bird sanctuaries in the state popular. We are proud to say that Karnataka has a large number of tigers, elephants and lion tailed macaques. Awareness on protection of animals has increased after the successful enactment of the Wildlife Protection Act,” Rai added. 
 
 The festival was organized by the forest department and Karnataka Eco Tourism Development Board, which attracted dozens of birders from various parts of the nation, and a few from foreign countries. The highlights of the festival are ‘pelagic birding’, shore birding and estuary and riverine birding, to be held on Saturday and Sunday. 
 
 
