 CHINCHWAD: Maharashtra   Rail Corporation Limited has started constructing the first station at Sant Tukaramnagar on   route.

 A senior official of   (MMRCL) said, “The work of digging pits for constructing the entry and exit points of the Metro station has begun. We will check if there are underground utility lines. The approximate cost of constructing this station is Rs50 crore. The station construction work is expected to be over by December 2019.”
 
 MMRCL, popular as  , is constructing the 16.589km-long Pimpri-Swargate Metro route for connecting twin cities of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Of it, a total of 11.57km stretch would be elevated and the rest would be underground. Around 8km-long elevated stretch from Pimpri to Harris bridge (Dapodi) would be in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation ( ) limits.
 
 MahaMetro has begun the construction of piers for the elevated stretch of   section of the Pimpri-Swargate route. The 61m-long foot overbridge (FOB) near Vallabhnagar ST bus depot would be a hindrance for the construction of the Sant Tukaramnagar Metro station.
 
 The MMRCL official said, “The FOB would be removed after the construction of the Metro station because we do not want to inconvenience people. The first level of the Metro station will work like an FOB for pedestrians to cross the highway.”
 
 On the PCMC’s letter to MahaMetro for preparing a detailed project report (DPR) for extending the Pimpri-Swargate Metro route till Nigdi, he said, “We have received the letter. An agency will be appointed soon to prepare the DPR. A maximum of six months will be needed to prepare it.”
 
 A lane of the grade separator on the either side of Old Pune-Mumbai Highway is barricaded from Kharalwadi to Nashik Phata Chowk for the Metro work, thereby leaving only one lane for vehicular traffic. Also, the construction work is being conducted from Mega Mart to College of Military Engineering (CME) Chowk in Dapodi. As a result, there are traffic snarls on the service road and grade separator during peak morning and evening hours.
 
 The MMRCL official said, “The commuters must use the service road instead of the grade separator. We are deploying 22 traffic wardens during the day and another 15 at night to guide commuters about the traffic diversions. We have a quick response team (QRT) vehicle with four persons for patrolling the highway regularly. Their work is to assist people, like providing first aid and arranging ambulance, in case of any minor accidents and removing small or big trees if they fall on the highway.”
 
 On the transplantation of tress for the Metro work, the official said, “A total of 10 trees have to be transplanted. Transplantation of three trees has been completed on the Vallabhnagar ST depot premises. Transplantation of two trees is expected to be completed by Friday.”
 
 
