NAGPUR: The custodians of law turn violators of rules as is apparent in the case of   police. Though the traffic police penalize motorists for parking vehicles in ‘no parking’ zones, the cops attached to zone-II (traffic) park confiscated two-wheelers on road in violation of Motor Vehicle Rules 122/177. 

 The traffic police (zone-II) office is situated near Swagat Lawns in Civil Lines. Until recently, the pickup van of traffic police used to lift two-wheelers from ‘no parking’ zones or on roads and parked them on its premises on   that also houses the office of deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Chaitanya S.
 
 However, recently the traffic police have stopped parking detained vehicles on its premises and instead converted a major portion of the Palm Road to park such two-wheelers.
 
 TOI visited the road patch from   to Swagat Lawns that has been converted into parking space for confiscated vehicles. This has narrowed down the road’s width to half. Sometimes, tow-away truck too can be seen parked on the road.
 
 The traffic police have also placed a few barricades and even used ropes to tie the confiscated two-wheelers.
 
 Recently, TOI also spotted the traffic police busy lifting two-wheelers parked on the same patch near ICICI Bank.
 
 This move of traffic police was severely criticized by motorists. Rupesh Jadhav, a motorist who was penalized for parking his two-wheeler in front of a commercial complex in Civil Lines, slammed the police and said, “On one hand the traffic police have designated many busy roads like Sitabuldi, Dhantoli and West High Court Road in Dharampeth as ‘no parking’ for both two and four-wheelers, on the other hand they themselves are converting roads to park detained vehicles.”
 
 Visitors at ICICI Bank pointed out that the traffic police had penalized them for parking their vehicles on Palm Road stating that it’s a VIP movement road as chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s convoy uses it frequently for his official Ramgiri residence. 
 
 “How they could convert the same patch for parking of detained vehicles? Is it not a violation of traffic rules,” asked Smita Wagh, who was recently penalized for parking violations.
 
  is home to bustling traffic of nearly 20 lakh vehicles, with around 15 lakh motorcycles and over two to three lakh cars. The rapidly escalating vehicle population has led to the perennial problem of parking.
 
 In the absence of provision for parking of vehicles in commercial buildings and market places, vehicle parking on the roadsides has resulted in free flow of traffic being hit.
 
 On an average, the Nagpur City Traffic Police register 90 cases of parking violations every day for obstructing movement of vehicles, parking in no-parking zones, and parking vehicles in a dangerous manner that can cause accidents.
 
 In fact, many roads have started witnessing traffic jams due to haphazard parking. This can also be gauged from the fact that the number of parking violations in first three months in 2018 has increased compared to 2017 in the same period. In 2018, the cops have penalized 8,162 people for wrong parking, while the figure was 6,256 in 2017, the statistics of the traffic police revealed.
 
 The traffic situation in the city could be improved only with active police participation. All motorists, irrespective of their profession, have to follow these rules, said traffic experts. 
 
 
