CHENNAI: Lighting infrastructure across several extended areas under   will get a revamp with a 80 crore project receiving approval at a high-power committee meeting last week.

 Eight zones - Thiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram, Ambattur, Valasaravakkam, Alandur, Perungudi and Sholinganallur, which became part of the corporation in 2011 - will get 17,000 revamped lampposts complete with streetlights installed. The corporation will replace the old fittings and poles set up under the erstwhile panchayats with galvanised iron (GI) poles and LED lights.
 
 "We were waiting for approval of the project, and now we're ready," a corporation official told TOI. "Tenders are likely to be floated next month. All concrete poles will be changed and sodium vapour lamps will be replaced with LED lamps. The cables will go underground."
 
 The meeting last week was attended by officials from the municipal administration and water supply department, the   secretary and the   Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDCO) chairman.
 
 Another official said the work would not take more than two months once the tenders are floated and work on the streetlights begins.
 
 The civic body is also waiting for approval of a 140-crore project for LED conversion of 70,000 streetlights across all 15 zones, which has been hanging fire due to lack of a go-ahead. As part of promoting renewable sources of energy, the civic body is awaiting approval of projects such as the installation of solar panels across all Corporation buildings in the city. Of the 2.78 lakh lamps across the city, 1.71 lakh are LED lamps, as per the civic body. This brings in a 45% reduction in the energy consumption.
 
 "Several lamps in my area have already been replaced with LED lights," said  , a resident of Old Mahabalipuram Road. "The corporation is carrying out work at a good pace across several zones. Underground cabling will ensure that there are no deaths from electrocution when it rains. LED lamps are brighter and more efficient; they consume less power, so that should help the corporation save funds. If implemented well, this will benefit residents across the city."
 
 
