NEW DELHI: Delhi is set to get two   dedicated to national heroes   and  . Sources said while the location for a museum for   was yet to be identified, that for Vallabhbhai   was likely to come up in one of the colonial barracks inside Red Fort, a world heritage site.

 The culture ministry is learnt to be keen on having more museums dedicated to freedom fighters. Minister Mahesh Sharma had recently said that museums dedicated to Bose would come up in both Delhi and Kolkata. The ministry is also exploring if a part of the 24-acre land with Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts could be used to build one. 
 
 The museum for Patel is set to come up inside Red Fort. At a recently held meeting, the ministry felt the need to give a fresh lease of life to the six barracks inside the fort. “The barracks need refurbishment, curation and reinstallation of fittings if they are to host any kind of exhibition or museum so that visitors can have a good experience there,’’ said an official. 
 
 The Archaeological Survey of India has already started restoration work on five of the barracks. The Sardar Patel Exhibition, currently installed at NSCM's Science Centre, may be permanently shifted to the Red Fort barracks. 
 
 The war museum inside Naubat Khana in Red Fort is also proposed to be shifted to one of the barracks. Experts said the museum at its current location didn’t have adequate space to display its collection of artefacts. “The ministry proposes to bring in proper experts to curate the exhibition, maybe from National Museum, for setting up a display on India’s role in World War I as part of the initiative. This is proposed to be done within next few months,”' said an official.
 
 The culture ministry had decided years ago to preserve as much of the colonial heritage inside the fort, which included the three-storey barracks that the British built to accommodate troops. Many historians and conservationists wanted the barracks, which were symbolic of the “desecration of Red Fort” by the British, to be razed. Yet, the barracks remained and are now considered a part of Red Fort’s history. 
 
 
