TRICHY: Taking serious note of job aspirants falling prey to fake recruitment advertisements and agencies,   airport director   has appealed to the public, especially the youth, against making any payment for jobs at the airport in the name of application fee or caution deposit. 

 More than 25 victims have so far been allegedly cheated by scamsters who have been operating from north India. Gunasekaran said that he had been receiving complaints on a daily basis from people who were cheated by fraudulent gangs.
 
 While addressing reporters in his chamber here on Saturday, he said that these fraudsters had charged Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000 as application fee and Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh as caution deposit for various posts such as floor manager and housekeeping supervisor.
 
 “It has been noticed that fraudulent recruitment advertisements and job offers are being made by some unscrupulous elements forging the Airport Authority of India’s (AAI) name and logo and have deceived (aspirants) with false promises of securing job in   Trichy. It is also noted that certain websites are showing AAI’s vacancies on their website. It is clarified that no website or agency has been authorised by AAI to either to show vacancies on their site or accept any application for recruitment,” he added. The   only notifies vacancies or recruitment on AAI’s website, Employment News or   and leading newspapers. 
 
 The link to apply for AAI vacancies is available only on AAI’s official website www.aai.aero and not on any other website. Only application fee is payable at the time of online registration and no other payments is sought at any stage of recruitment, he further said.
 
 He has requested prospective job aspirants to be cautious and not to be misled by any such false advertisements, as AAI is not responsible in any way for any loss or damage caused by action of fraudsters.
 
 “A complaint has also been lodged at the office of the commissioner of police in this regard and very soon the miscreants would come under the police net,” the airport director added.
 
 
