PANCHKULA: A day after the theft at the Shiva temple in  , police suspect that it may be an insider's job. On Monday, the cops were informed by the temple authorities that some thieves fled after stealing gold and silver jewellery items worth Rs 30 lakh from six temples located inside the main temple complex at   in Saketri. 

 A team of crime investigation agency ( ) revisited the temple on Tuesday to check the possible entries the accused could have leveraged to enter the temple premises.
 
 The CIA officials found that a fence was missing from a hill that connects side of the temple. The officials said that the way that connects the hill and the temple is covered with fencing, but a little part was not covered. "Nobody from the temple trust took an initiative to fence it again," the cops said,
 
 During their investigation, the cops found that the six accused, caught on the CCTV cameras, either entered from the back gate of the temple or from the hill side as both of these entry points do not come under CCTV surveillance.
 
 A CCTV footage from the cameras installed at the temple premises shows six people breaking the locks of the temple. The CIA team on Monday examined the footage and said that they would soon call the priests and the people, who were present in the temple during the incident to clear some doubts they had.
 
 "We revisited the temple premises and checked the CCTV footages. We also walked up the hill to find out possible ways, the accused used to enter the premises," said CIA in-charge, inspector,  .
 
 On Monday at 1.57am, six masked men entered the temple premises and after breaking down the lock of all the six temples located at the main temple complex fled with the gold and silver ornaments.
 
 The theft came to light at 4 am when priests went for prayers and found the doors of six temples - two of Shiva, one of Durga, one each of Ram, Hanuman and Krishan - open. The priests, then, called members of Shiv Mandir Navdurga Charitable Trust under whom the temple is running.
 
 
