ERODE: Having made his entry into politics,   on Saturday made an apparent bid to woo the industrial players saying the introduction of Goods and Services Tax (GST) had badly affected several sectors, including textiles.

 The Makkal Needhi Maiam founder, who was in the city, attended a meeting organised by weavers’ associations and also received complaints from weavers, who listed out the problems prevailing in the textile industry.
 
 Kamal, however, didn’t give them any assurance to sort out all their issues. Instead, he said, “You (weavers) have told me what to do for this industry. I will join you in your struggle to get your issues addressed.”
 
 Kamal also told them he was the first person from the film industry to voice against GST when the Central government implemented it.
 
 Later, the actor-turned-politician met his fans club association members as well as his party cadres in the same meeting hall.   requested his fans club members to add more people to the party as there were a lot of works to be done. “We have plenty of works to do and we need more people. Try to add as much as possible,” he told them.
 
 Kamal also appreciated his fan club members for their discipline. “Please teach that discipline to our new members and cadres,” he said and requested both his fans and party cadres to help people take a judicious decision in the upcoming election. “We have made mistakes in the past and we were at the receiving end. This time, we should not commit any such mistake,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Kamal addressed a gathering at  . “I am not here to give you assurances. An expert team from my party will visit your place soon to study the issues prevailing in the district. You can tell all your issues to the team,” he said.
 
 The actor-turned-politician, however, told them that Perundurai would get an effluent treatment plant soon if everyone worked together. “My party will join in your protest for an effluent treatment plant in Perundurai. Once that happens, all water bodies here will naturally become clean,” he said.
 
 
