The rate of urbanisation in Tamil Nadu is nearly 50 %. As urban population grows, the number of vehicles also increases. Gone are the days when a family had just one vehicle. Better affordability of urban families has also raised the vehicle ownership per family. The increasing number of vehicles is a major contributor to traffic delays, congestion and accidents. The government should concentrate on a few key issues in 2018 to ensure a smooth travel to commuters.

 GPS-enabled  
 
 The share of people travelling by buses is declining as bus transport is unable to meet higher expectations in terms of comfort and travel time. People prefer using cabs and share autos where they can access the vehicle location, fare and time beforehand. Use of passenger information system with linkage to mobile phones and modification in operations in buses would increase the patronage. Also, extending current services like the usage of Electronic Ticketing Machines (ETMs) and GPS in buses would woo commuters and help operators know about the demand so that buses can be operated optimally in all routes. Chennai is likely to get a BRTS (Bus Rapid Transit System), LRTS (Light Rail Transit System) and additional metro rails. It is essential to integrate various modes of public transport to ensure quick and economic travel.
 
 Timing traffic signals according to crowd
 
 Nearly 40% accidents and congestion are reported on road intersections. Good urban designs should be formulated to tackle such accidents. Every traffic signal in Chennai has a constant timing. Instead timing should be fixed keeping in mind traffic variations during working days, holidays and peak and lean hours. This would reduce violations. Signals along major roads should be coordinated to get a ‘green wave’ (when a vehicle gets past progressive green signals without stopping) to smoothen traffic. 
 
 Better footpaths
 
 There should be a separate phase for pedestrian movement at signals and installation of ‘pelican signals’ at mid-blocks where pedestrian crossing is required. This would facilitate safe movement of people across roads. Footpaths in city stretches should be upgraded from time to time and design concepts should be modified to guard them against encroachments and two wheelers. 
 
 Encouraging vehicle pooling
 
 There is lot of scope for vehicle pooling in Chennai. These vehicles should be given priority in public parking and promoted in a large manner. Finding a space for parking is becoming increasingly difficult. Multi-level parking and automated parking facilities with Intelligent Traffic System (ITS) are required at commercial places where people gather in huge numbers. Also, parking should be charged since it is one of the best methods to push people towards public transport.
 
 Traffic lessons
 
 It is essential that traffic education is thought and practiced from schooldays. Children should be encouraged to travel with fellow classmates in a school bus or a car or by van pooling. They should be taught not only to ride a cycle or but also to adhere rules of safe commute. Driving practices and knowledge has to be imparted in an easy and understandable way in localised conditions as it is done in western countries.
 
 (The author is the head of Transportation Engineering department, Anna University) 
 
 (As told to Ram Sundaram)
 
 
