Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik’s political longevity is often attributed to the inscrutable Patnaik’s sudden and unemotional decisions. The one that is most often cited is his treatment of his colleague Bijoy Mahapatra in the early years of the  .
 
  Mahapatra now with the   is described as one of Odisha’s sharpest politicians. He has spent the 17 years since outside the party he helped found, and as Patnaik ensures every five years, outside of the state assembly. Patnaik, one of India’s most successful Chief Ministers has meanwhile led the   to power for four consecutive terms.
  
  Patnaik’s suspension of Kendrapara MP   last week isn’t quite comparable. Firstly it really did not come as a surprise – even though Panda said he was shocked – and it came at a time when the regional party faced with serious incumbency is gearing up to take on a new challenger, the BJP. Speculation is rife that Panda, now accused by his own party of cosying up to BJP, could be accommodated in party.
  
  Those following Odisha politics describe Panda’s suspensions as a “mutually agreed divorce”. The MP blames it on “conspiracy against him led by an IAS officer now controlling the party.” Panda’s family was close to the late Biju Patnaik; his mother had been nominated by the Janata Dal to the Rajya Sabha in the nineties.
  
  But if media reports of 2011 are to be believed, Panda and the CM were also not on the best of terms when late Pyarimohan Mohapatra, former bureaucrat and Patnaik’s advisor, was said to call the shots in the party.
  
  Within months after the BJP-led alliance came to power in 2014 a national magazine reported the unravelling equation between Panda and his boss as “Macbethian” arising from the former’s proximity to BJP leaders. Panda’s opinion pieces in national dailies, often in praise of Narendra Modi and his policies did little to change this view.
  
  He seemed less enthusiastic about his party and its workings. After the BJP made surprising gains in rural polls in February of 2017, (which Patnaik’s party swept), Panda called for his party to “introspect” and worry about “widespread corruption”. He was promptly removed as spokesperson - a position he had been entrusted with for decades making him BJD’s most visible face in New Delhi.
  
  Tall, an avid helicopter pilot, hailing from one of Odisha’s leading business house, his admirers believe he channels the late Odisha CM Biju Patnaik. Many from his large twitter following also seem to think he is the “right man in the wrong party” and will be better off in the BJP.
  
  After two terms in the Rajya Sabha, Panda in 2009 and then 2014 contested successfully from Kendrapara. The coastal Odisha constituency has been an anti-Congress bastion since 1971 held by Biju Patnaik himself between 1977 -1984.
  
  Panda has nurtured his constituency with attention uncharacteristic of Odisha MPs. His team says this makes certain party MLAs, who have clashed openly with their MP, uncomfortable. “Jay Panda had no connection with the district when he first contested from here. The party is unlikely to lose Kendrapara even if Panda choses to fight them over it,” said a senior BJD politician who didn’t want to be named. The BJD now wants Panda to resign, dragging his family firm IMFA, India’s biggest producer of ferroalloys, into this current feud. If he does, a bypoll will be due in Kendrapara.
  
  Amit Shah’s ambitious about Odisha. The party’s current position of 10 MLAs (behind Congress’ 16) will rise to 120 in Odisha assembly of 147 come 2019, he says. BJP once Patnaik’s ally, has been welcoming dissidents from opposition parties, both ruling BJD and the Congress. As has the BJD. This trend is only likely to pick pace.
  
  The BJD, meanwhile, has 117 MLAs (and 20 of Odisha’s 21 Lok Saba members). Coastal Odisha, a BJD stronghold, accounts for 81 of these assembly seats. Patnaik will not want to cede any space here, in 2019 when general and assembly polls are scheduled for. Panda whose family runs Odisha leading regional channel, could be a rallying force for some of them, says a BJD colleague.
  
  A possibility then is for the 54-year old to go the Himanta Biswa Sarma way. A fourth front – outside of the Congress, BJP and BJD, has rarely if ever worked in Odisha. Pyari-babu’s attempt at setting up a rival regional party to take on Patnaik failed miserably in 2014.
  
  Panda was absent at the gala launch of a Biju Patnaik biography 
 
  
  
