CHANDIGARH: Class X and XII students under Central   of Secondary Education ( ) termed their first exam on Monday as an easy one and a good start to the boards. Class X students had exam for vocational subjects while Class XII appeared for English exam. 

 Despite being slightly lengthy, students found the literature section of the English exam to be easy. Some students however did miss out on the last few questions in the paper. Class XII students now look forward to physics exam with bated breath on Wednesday. While Class X students will have exam for Hindi on Tuesday, Class XII will appear for their vocational studies’ paper. 
 
 Haroon, a Class XII medical student from DAV School, Sector 15, said, “The paper was easy but lengthy too at the same time. Due to this I was unable to complete the paper. I missed a long answer question. I am very glad with the education structure in India as compared to my native country  .”  , another class XII student coming out of St John’s School said, “I felt relaxed after the exam. I am away from home and I had not talked to my parents before the exam. Now I am focusing on the next exam. I am trying to give my best as cut-off for colleges have been touching new heights, so each and every mark has its own value. One mistake can act to our disadvantage.”
 
 Class X students too were happy after their first paper. Komal Giri, whose examination centre was in   in Sector 8 said, “I had my IT exam and it was easy. I am happy with my performance. I only fear maths and science. So, I am going to focus on them now.”
 
 Not just students, even their parents were equally tensed and waited eagerly for their wards outside examination centres. One such parent Satender Nagra said, “Before the first paper I was nervous too with my daughter Laksheta appearing for the board exam. Our family has been supporting her all throughout to keep up her motivation level. I am hoping that she would get good marks in the exams.”
 
 According to teachers, students should revise the important things a day before the exam. “Complete list of formulae, experiments and derivations should be kept handy. NCERT books are to be followed thoroughly. Speed and accuracy in solving different problems can be acquired through in-depth study and extensive practice,” said PGT physics   from KBDAV.
 
 
