Mumbai: In an attempt to ensure good quality of students enter their premier institutes, the IITs upped their game this year. JEE (Advanced) 2018 stumped thousands of aspirants on Sunday with IITs introducing a major component on non–MCQs (  also termed  ) in paper I and II. In almost 45% of the 54 questions in each paper, students had to arrive at a   and   was provided.

 Last year, section 2 in each of the three subjects in paper I had five questions which had a single-digit integer ranging from 0-9, as answer. This year, section 2 in each of the three subjects in paper I and II had answers in numerical values. And students were told that the answer could be any numerical value (rounded off to second decimal place, for example 6.25, 7.00,-127.30, 30.27).
 
 “The IITs did not give a limited range which helped students to cross-check their answers...This year, there was no range given and answers could be negative too. The quality of questions was better than previous year’s,” said Aditya Singh, an aspirant from Mumbai. 
 
 Another aspirant Bhaskar Gupta said, “Apart from MCQs, this year, there were many direct questions with numerical answers without choices...Mathematics was particularly tougher than physics and chemistry. The questions were not difficult, but the calculations were lengthier. The paper was tougher compared to 2017.” Vinay Kumar, MD of a coaching institute, said: “Many found the mathematics paper to be more difficult than chemistry and physics...Overall, the paper was difficult as anticipated.” 
 
 A JEE (Advanced) official said, “Students should focus on the syllabus...and not on the type of questions.... IITs are taking conscious efforts to ensure good quality students are picked, and not those who attempt to answer questions by eliminating the wrong answers or by plain guesswork. If the students are prepared well, they should be able to attempt any type of questions...”
 
 No errors were reported as the question papers were not uploaded by the IITs till late night.
 
 
