CHANDIGARH: After a gap of five years, the former vice-chancellor of  , R C Sobti, will be back on campus. Sobti, who completes his tenure as vice-chancellor of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow, on January 20, 2018, has been honoured with   (Insa) senior scientist position from January 2018, for which he has chosen Panjab University.

 Sobti has also approached the zoology and biotechnology departments for teaching as emeritus professor. Sources said he is going to join biotechnology department as an Insa scientist. The position carries an honorarium of Rs 30,000 per month and contingency of Rs 1 lakh per annum. The term is three years, initially, and extendable by two years. “I also want to teach students. For this, I have spoken to biotechnology and zoology departments, since my expertise is in these two fields,” Sobti told TOI. 
 
 He added that he often visited the varsity and was looking forward to be on the campus again. Sobti still has his room at the biotechnology department.
 
 Panjab University vice-chancellor Prof   revealed in the special syndicate meeting on Wednesday that Sobti would return to the PU campus after completing his term as vice-chancellor at Lucknow on January 20, 2018, since he had been honoured with the Insa senior scientist position. Sobti was the vice-chancellor of Panjab University from 2006 to July 2012, after which Grover became the vice-chancellor of the university. Sobti’s predecessorm, K N Pathak, was the vice-chancellor for six years, from 2000 to 2006. 
 
 Moreover, Grover had informed in the special syndicate meeting that Rohit Kumar Sharma, assistant professor of department of chemistry, had been nominated as a member of the   (INYAS) under the aegis of Insa, for five years, with effect from January 2018. He is the first young scientist to be inducted in INYAS from PU. He has also received a research grant of Rs 63 lakh from Science & Engineering Research Board (SERB) for a project in collaboration with CSIR-IMTECH, Chandigarh.
 
 
