Chandigarh: Chief minister Amarinder Singh has joined the list of the region’s who’s who having bought land for sprawling farm houses in the Siswan area of Mohali, which is a stone’s throw away from Chandigarh. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has alleged that the deal has preceded the state government’s plans to let the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) lapse in the area.

 Leader of the opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira on Tuesday made a complaint to chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh demanding a transparent and impartial inquiry at the earliest to find out how many politicians, bureaucrats or other powerful people around the CM have purchased such lands around Chandigarh.
 
 Interestingly, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal’s Sukhvilas resort is also located around 5 kilometers away from the area.
 
 Two reports by Justice Kuldip Singh tribunal set up by the Punjab and Haryana high court to go into land deals of politicians and bureaucrats around Chandigarh, had earlier looked into the issue of estimated more than 60 VIPs, including bureaucrats and politicians, possessing government land in violation of the periphery and forest Acts which prohibit the sale of village common land and forest land.
 
 “It’s a serious issue of conflict of interest and breach of oath of office and secrecy by Amarinder,” claimed the AAP leader. Amarinder has bought 6 acres of land at village Palanpur in Siswan of Mohali district on January 3.
 
 Amarinder’s decision to choose the area may have enthused not just local Congress workers but property dealers are still apprehensive. “Most of the agriculture land in the area has multiple owners and it is preferred by only those who want to have a farm house for a quick retreat,” said Sunil Kumar, a property dealer operating in the area.
 
 Meanwhile, Amarinder’s interest in the area has already become a talking point among local Congress leaders. “There are many farm houses in the area and it is only four kilometers from Chandigarh,” said one.
 
  Environmental experts said if there is no move to re-notify these areas as forests immediately, Punjab will lose its little stretch of biodiversity and forests left. Forests in about 16 villages in the ecologically rich Shivalik foothills around Chandigarh become vulnerable to destruction after the notification expires on February 2, 2018.
 
 “There are reports that the Punjab government is likely to let the PLPA notification pertaining to villages surrounding Chandigarh lapse after the February 3. In other words, it would mean a windfall for land sharks, who have bought large chunks of land in this ecologically fragile area of Shivalik foothills, who were barred from any sort of construction or ground breaking due to the said PLPA of 1900,” alleged Khaira.
 
 
