PATNA: The   (PMC) budget for fiscal 2018-19 is likely to be tabled at its empowered standing committee meeting on Thursday. Once approved by the standing committee, the budget would be tabled at the   board meeting of all 75 ward councillors for its final nod. 

 Patna mayor Sita Sahu said the budget would give major thrust on sanitation, revenue collection, infrastructure, LED street lights and solid waste management.
 
 “Provisions have been made in the budget for construction of a commercial property at Arya Kumar Road. Also, new Azimabad and Pataliputra circle offices would come up at Krishnapuri,” Sahu said and added that there won’t be any revision in holding tax rate. With regard to proposed commercial property at Arya Kumar Road, Sahu said it would be constructed over an area of one bigha land near   in public-private partnership (PPP) mode.
 
 Elaborating the financial details of the budget, Sahu said: “PMC collected Rs50 crore from various sources of revenue in 2017-18 and we have set the target for Rs120 crore of revenue collection in the next fiscal (2018-19). The budget for the upcoming fiscal also has provisions for increase in revenue through various sources, including trade licence, mobile tower, hoarding, parking, toilets and holding tax. PMC has also roped in a Ranchi-based private agency   for the revenue collection.”
 
 She added: “Instead of suggesting any new works, the municipal administration should give priority to the ongoing projects. PMC will focus on the proper implementation of door-to-door garbage collection, street lights, environment and solid waste management,” Sahu said.
 
 Sources said thrust would be on works envisaged under smart city mission as Patna is one of the four cities in   selected under the ambitious scheme.
 
 Prevention of waterlogging is also a key issue in the budget provisions as the city has been facing the menace in the monsoon season almost every year. The civic body has already planned to commence the drainage cleaning works from mid-March. 
 
 Residents are, however, cautioned not to make high hopes with the municipal budget as many big promises made in the past few years remained unimplemented.
 
 For instance, the municipal budget for the ongoing fiscal had provisions for new facilities such as playgrounds, parks and health centres. The civic body had also decided to distribute tricycles among disabled persons. However, none of such budget provisions were actually implemented.
 
 
