PATNA: Worsening air quality in  , Gaya and Muzaffarpur is one of the reasons behind high premature mortality in these cities, a report said on Monday. 

 The Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED), an NGO, in collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi, released the findings titled ‘Know what you breathe’ here on Monday. The study was conducted in seven cities of Uttar Pradesh (Allahabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Meerut, Varanasi and Gorakhpur), three cities of Bihar (Patna, Gaya and Muzaffarpur) and Ranchi, the capital of Jharkhand. Among them, Kanpur stands at the first position followed by Lucknow and Patna, where highest number of premature deaths per year due to the chronic exposure to air pollution were recorded.
 
 “An estimated 290-300 deaths per lakh population took place annually in Patna, Muzaffarpur and Gaya due to pulmonary and heart diseases, strokes, lung cancer and acute lower respiratory infections,” the report said.
 
 The report studied the annual mean PM2.5 concentration in 11 cities of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand using satellite data of the past 17 years, which estimate premature mortality of 4,082 persons per year in the three cities of Bihar. PM2.5 refers to atmospheric particulate matter (PM) with diameter less than 2.5 micrometers.
 
 The study collated the air quality data with deaths due to air pollution-related diseases. 
 
 The report’s data and findings related to the Bihar cities were released on Monday, underlining the urgency to take stringent steps to curb air pollution.
 
 Senior program officer (CEED) Ankita Jyoti said, “The researchers of IIT-Delhi studied annual mean PM2.5 concentration for 11 north Indian cities using the satellite data of past 17 years. As many as 8 cities out 11 have already been listed in the global air quality assessment report of the World Health Organisation (WHO) titled ‘Global Ambient Air Quality Database (2018)’. The report studied PM 2.5 concentration recorded through satellite.”
 
 With specific findings related to the sources of pollution and aerosol composition, the study indicated a higher percentage of sulphates, organic carbons, and black carbon, which are emitted primarily by anthropogenic sources. 
 
 Elaborating on the methodology of research, Ankita said, “There is no such cause-specific mortality data available so another viable method called ‘global burden of diseases’ have been adopted to deduce indicative data for the mortality rate. We have taken district-wise mortality data available with the state health department. From there, we took the number of deaths caused by the five diseases and divided them by the probable factors responsible for these diseases.”
 
 CEED programme director Abhishek Pratap said: “Air pollution does not discriminate between the rich and the poor, but the poorest and the most marginalized sections bear the brunt of the health burden the most. The report is a grim reminder of the fact that air pollution is a public health crisis impacting the present as well as the future generations.” 
 
 He emphasized that to prevent air pollution from causing more premature mortality, the government needed to put it high on its priority list. The announcement of preparation of an Air Action Plan for Patna is a welcome step, he said.
 
 Speaking on the action required for improved air quality, report author and associate professor Sagnik Dey of the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT-Delhi, said a critical factor in air quality management plan is to set targets in short, medium and long terms of meeting air quality standards, along with a detailed implementation plan. 
 
 To improve the air quality in the region, we need to transit towards cleaner fuel for cooking on a priority basis, Dey said. 
 
 
