Winter is the season when birdwatchers in NCR pick their camera and binoculars and head to the nearby sanctuaries to see birds of different species. However, according to a survey done by Delhi-based NGO Wetlands Internationals, the number of   visiting sanctuaries in Noida is decreasing by each passing year. According to the survey done this month, 11,000 migratory birds of 64 species have visited the   and over 3,000 birds of 52 species at Surajpur Wetland and Natural Forest. But these numbers are far less as compared to previous years. Bird watchers and photographers tell us that they too feel that there has been a considerable decline in the number of migratory birds visiting the bird parks in Noida.

 
  
  A pair of   at   in Greater Noida
 
 
 
 Anand Arya, a Noida-based environmentalist, says, "The number of migratory birds visiting Noida is decreasing by each passing year. It's because of the shrinking habitat area for birds in NCR."
 
  
  Seagull
 
 
 Anand adds, "When the Prerna Sthal Park came up, we lost almost 9,000 trees in the surrounding area. This means a huge loss of source of food for them, so they will naturally move away or not come here at all. The habitat is also disturbed due to noise pollution caused by traffic and construction work. 
 Grasslands, pastures and wetlands are shrinking at an alarming rate, keeping the birds away from Noida. Dhanauri and Dadri still have some hope, but thing will deteriorate there soon. Smog is another reason. NCR has become a heat island and if we can't breathe properly, how can the birds? Their heart beats faster than humans, they inhale a lot more pollution than we do. With the smog that stays throughout the day, their total feeding time is reduced. They get confused due to poor visibility and are not able to locate food."
 
 
  
  A photograph that shows only a feather at the wetlands depicting very less number of migratory birds this year (Photo: Ashish Sharma)
 
  
  (Photo: Sachin Sinha)
 
  
  
 
 Anubhav Sha, a Noida-based wildlife and nature photographer, says, "The number migratory birds has decreased this year at Okhla Bird Sanctuary and other sanctuaries in NCR. And the main reason behind it is the smog. I can particularly see a sharp decline in the number of flamingos this year."
 
  
  
 
 Mirza Ahmed Azim Baig, a bird photographer from Noida, says, "All I can see are albatross, sarus crane and spotted doves. No new species have migrated to the Okhla Sanctuary this year."
 
 
  
  Dhanauri Wetlands
 
 
 
 Sachin Sinha, a Noida-based birdwatcher, says, "Pollution level bahut badh gaya hai, because of which the number of migratory birds has reduced. Even Bharatpur has not seen many migratory birds this year."
 
 
  
  Brown-headed barbet
 
 
 Koshy Koshy, a bird photographer, who visited Okhla Bird Sanctuary recently, says, "The number of migratory birds have gone down this year as I couldn’t spot many species this time. There is too much water in the Okhla barrage and since ducks do not prefer deep water as they are very skinny to dive, they don’t find it preferable. Ten years ago, the sanctuary used to host almost 1,000 birds per species, but now it sees only 1000 birds in total."
 
  
  Eared Grebe
 
 
 Sanjiv Bhandula, who runs a photography school in NCR, says, "Birds prefer cold weather and a perfect water condition, but NCR doesn't provide any of that. NCR has received very less rain in the last few years and so, stagnant water is hard to find in the area. This is also the reason that migratory birds are not coming to the region."
 
 Ashish Sharma, a photographer who has shot in Surajpur and Dhanauri wetlands, says, "Smog has made conditions unfavourable for the birds, which is why they are not coming to the region. Urbanisation and depleting natural reserves are preventing birds from coming to the region. I visited Surajpur recently and the human population near wetlands have increased which is affecting the area."
 
  
  Painted stork
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
