Hubballi:   in   district are now joining hands with the   by planning to   and borewells within their premises.

 H M Koppad, president,   (DDAEI), told TOI that the organization had approached the Prime Minister’s Office in June 2017, when the state was facing drought, seeking support to drill borewells and build toilets in masjids located in villages. “As Muslims pray five times a day in mosques, water is very essential for ablution and other purposes. As rural masjids are deprived of toilets and water, we took this initiative to be part of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan,” he said.
 
 DDAEI vice presidents I I Mokhashi and A R Bagewadi said the PMO told the chief secretary of Karnataka and the Dharwad ZP CEO to respond to their request. 
 
 “Meanwhile we had also requested then AICC president Sonia Gandhi to instruct the authorities in the state about the initiative. She instructed district in-charge minister  , who in turn also directed the Dharwad ZP CEO to do the needful,” they said.
 
 DDAEI secretary J S Hadagali said that a survey to collect details on facilities and demands of rural masjids is on. “We have sent a form to masjids of all 371 villages in the seven taluks. We have asked masjids to give an application before their respective gram panchayats seeking toilet and water,” he said.
 
 DDAEI joint secretaries A M Ainapur and A M Jakati urged elected representatives to provide financial support from MLR or MP LAD funds.
 
 Bheemappa N M, the project director of the District Rural Development Agency of the zilla panchayat said, “We have sought proposals of the requirement of toilets and bore wells at masjids from the panchayat development officers. Once we receive them, we will construct cisterns and toilets at masjids wherever necessary. If masjids want community toilets, we will take an undertaking of maintenance from masjid committees and sanction community toilets there as per norms of the Swachh Bharat Mission.”
 
 “Finally, the Union and state governments are coming forward to construct toilets and borewells at rural masjids. We urge the authorities to expedite the process and complete the work at the earliest,” said Abdul Razak J Mulla, a regular visitor to Jumma Masjid in Betadur village.
 
 
