The   on Friday refused to ban 'Aiyaary' and dismissed a plea of Adarsh Cooperative Housing Society against the film's release, saying people cannot be allowed to become "super censor board" to restrict artistic freedom of film-makers. 

 The film is based on the backdrop of the Adarsh scam and the society rushed to the Supreme Court alleging it depicted it and its members in a bad light. Appearing before a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justice  , senior advocate Sanjay Hegde said: "The film, which is going to be released, is projecting the society in bad light and is likely to affect the ongoing litigation and it would also damage the reputation of its members."
 
 The bench said the court could not interfere in its release as the film had been cleared by the   (CBFC) after consultations with authorities from the army and it could not take over the power of a statutory body by staying the release of the film.
 
 Dismissing the petition, the court said "everyone shall become super censor board if such a plea is allowed".
 
 It said the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression was "the most cherished right" granted under the Constitution and film-makers could not be deprived of artistic freedom. Hinting that judges do not get influenced by cinema and media trial, the bench said the society's apprehension that the trial would be affected by the film was baseless. 
 
 The court said the doctrine of sub judice could not be elevated to the extent of depriving a film-maker's fundamental right to make a film on an issue under adjudication of a court. It also refused the plea to direct the film-makers to mention a disclaimer, saying that it was not based on the scam. The bench said it was for the censor board to take a decision.
 
  The Adarsh apartments, built at   for Kargil war heroes, was declared illegal and the   had ordered its demolition and sought criminal proceedings against politicians and bureaucrats for "misuse" of powers, holdi-ng that the tower was illegally constructed. The apex court stayed order and asked the Centre to take its possession from the housing society. 
 
 
