As a bitter poll fight looms in Karnataka, BJP’s CM candidate B S Yeddyurappa accuses the Siddaramaiah government of trying to divide the people on caste and community lines to divert attention from development. In an interview to Akhilesh Singh, BSY claims that BJP will ride on discontent and the positive pull of its agenda to return to office. Excerpts from the interview:

 
 
 People are eager to see BJP return as they remember how schemes implemented by me such as   (Rs 15 lakh bond for each girl child), Sandhya Suraksha (pension for the aged), bicycles for school-going children and interest-free loan to farmers were adopted by the current government. People are angry over loot of public money and poor law and order situation. According to   data, Bengaluru has turned into a city of crimes.
 
 
 
 Our target is based on comprehensive assessment of the current mood in the state. This time, youth, women and farmers here are with BJP. We have made inroads in   and JD(S) strongholds.
 
 
 
 It was the party’s decision to nominate me as the chief ministerial candidate. The party brass must have seen some merit in me or, may be, in my performance as the chief minister. The claims about differences are opposition propaganda.
 
 
 
 Siddaramaiah has tried his best to divide people on caste and community lines and to win polls by muscle and money power. It is a foolish statement and shows their desperation. Congress has seen the grand response to my ‘yatra’ and it has realised that its defeat is imminent. They are resorting to such gimmicks to somehow retain power but people have made up their mind to teach Congress a lesson.
 
 
 
 We are committed to resolve the issue. Mahadayi issue is a legacy inherited from Congress governments and the UPA government at the Centre. During my tenure, I released Rs 100 crore for the project and foundation for the canal was laid. Congress has not shown an iota of interest to resolve this 30-year-old issue. Goa chief minister   recently agreed to negotiate and release water for drinking purposes but Siddaramaiah and his party leaders started discussing technicalities instead of accepting the spirit of the letter.
 
 During Goa assembly polls, even   had opposed release of water.
 
