JALANDHAR: Delhi   (DSGMC) took a dig at the Centre and its agencies on Sunday for creating a "hype" over Canadian high commissioner's invitation to former Sikh separatist  . The invitation, rescinded later, cast a shadow on Canadian PM  's visit last week. 

 DSGMC chief  , who also heads the SAD's Delhi unit, confirmed he met Atwal around six months ago. GK said Atwal, during his that trip, also met "government agencies". GK's statement came after a picture of his with Atwal in his office in Delhi was shared widely on social media. The photo was taken in August 2017, GK confirmed. He said the Indian government removed Atwal's name from the blacklist and granted him visa.
 
 Atwal also posted pictures of his visit to Delhi and Parliament on August 25, 2017. In one picture, he is seen outside a government building, while India Gate can be seen in the backdrop in another. Atwal said in the post that he visited the offices of Union finance ministry and the ministry of external affairs (MEA). He also expressed love for his homeland, writing: "Thanks India and I love my India (Sic)." 
 
 GK said he appreciated the Centre's approach of opening channels for Sikhs in Canada and other countries. "But the behaviour of the Centre and the Punjab government, and their agencies, is baffling. It was good to review the blacklist, but why are these people being vilified? They are returning to the mainstream and should not be used for agendas," GK said.
 
 GK said it was clear that the Atwal episode was used to ruin Trudeau's visit. He even alleged that "agencies" and media "complimented" each other in running the campaign against Trudeau and painting Sikhs with a single brush. "Atwal did something several years ago and paid for it. He is a good citizen there and doing his business. But if he can still be called terrorist, then why same words not be used for   or Phoolan Devi?" he said. 
 
 GK said he agreed with Canadian media reports that Atwal had "close links" with Indian diplomatic officials and that 'certain people' within "Indian government" were behind the episode which embarrassed the Canadian PM.
 
 
