

 
 
 It feels good knowing that I was able to stir a conversation about representation. The show’s creators’ response was lazy. The episode that they put out was mean-spirited and disappointing.   was heartfelt and he said what we wanted more than anything, which is to be acknowledged as part of America. Ultimately, the movie is less about Apu. That was the example we used but the focus really is on what it’s like when you have just one thing that represents you.
 
 
 
 I grew up in   so I had many other South Asians around, which kids in other areas didn’t have. However, people were laughing at Apu’s accent and thought that the way my parents’ generation sounded was funny. As an American kid growing up with Indian parents, I became very self-conscious about how they spoke. Why should anyone be embarrassed about their parents that way? They can’t control it, and that’s who they are. Every kid gets bullied but this was like racial bullying where we weren’t able to respond. All we were was a joke.
 
 
 
 There has been a vast improvement. You see people making incredible projects and telling stories that wouldn’t have been allowed before. However, there are lots of stories that still need to be told. Also, it has been a good year, but mostly for South Asian men. Sure there is   and Priyanka Chopra, but the bulk of it is men. We need a fair distribution of stories and roles. It would be nice to have South Asian immigrant characters that had accents that weren’t just for comedy but actually to tell the stories. Part of the improvement is showing the complexity of identity. It’s happening, but it’s slow.
 
 
 
 I wasn’t a particularly political being in high school, but after 9/11, I woke up. I saw how there was violence directed towards Muslims, Sikhs and Arabs because of ignorance. As a result, I felt like this isn’t the country I thought it was. I started studying the history of this country as I wanted to play a role in ending discrimination and racism. That mission never went away. I still think about these topics and want to find ways to talk about them, and make people laugh at the same time.
 
 
 
 I like discomfort when it’s followed by laughter. When you make people uncomfortable by sharing some kind of truth, and are able to make them laugh, there is something rewarding in that. I forced you to think about things you did not want to confront but you laughed because I gave you something funny to laugh at. I say white people a lot because I know what it’s like to be racialised and pre-judged. I see how many people of colour are seen as a colour first, and white people don’t have to deal with that.
 
 
  
 I’m a little more anxious now but the act hasn’t changed dramatically. And in these times you can’t ignore what Trump is doing. Recently in Michigan, someone said Hail Trump right in the middle of my show. I dealt with him. (Kondabolu thanked him for writing his future material and told him to stay quiet or he’d have him removed.)
 
 
 
 I don’t often tweet it out because there is so much of it. These are people who are afraid because the world is changing and they are stuck. I don’t think these people even watched my film.
 
