GUWAHATI: The co-ordination committee of   has called for a meeting of all political parties, tribal bodies and the civil societies on Thursday to deliberate on the common demand for a conclusion to the Naga peace talks ahead of the election. This comes at a time when the majority of the people in the state want a permanent solution to the problem ahead of the polls, even though the BJP have adopted the "election for solution" mantra. 

 BJP national general secretary and northeast in-charge   had said at Dimapur on Monday that elections are unavoidable since they are a constitutional obligation. He also maintained that the slogan in Nagaland should be "election for solution" to bring about a logical conclusion to the peace talks. 
 
 Theja Therieh, the secretary of Nagaland Tribes Council, a conglomerate of representatives of all the Naga tribes in the state, told TOI, "There is utter confusion in Nagaland. We do not blame the Election Commission as it is duty-bound to conduct elections. The people from the grassroots want the election as well the solution. But they want the solution before the polls because they want to vote in peaceful and in a democratic way." 
 
 There is a general apprehension among the masses that armed militants will call the shots on behalf of their political masters. "Voters have never been able to vote freely. There is always gun power and money power at play. We hope the political parties will respect the sentiments of the people," Therieh added. 
 
 Though no political party has made their stance public so far, the current Nagaland assembly, which has no opposition and is completely dominated by the ruling   - comprising the Naga People's Front (NPF), BJP and JD(U) -adopted a resolution on December 15 to ask the Centre to bring a solution to the Naga political issue before the elections. The Naga Hoho and the   have also demanded a solution before the polls.
 
 Subsequently, Nagaland chief minister TR Zeliang, in January this year, apprised home minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi about the popular consensus for an immediate solution to the crisis in the state. 
 
 The Naga peace talks have been going on with the   (Isak-Muivah) since 1997. Two years ago, the Centre signed a 'Framework Agreement' with the NSCN(IM) with six other rebel outfits being included later with an intention of making the process inclusive. 
 
 The NPF central executive committee in a meeting on Tuesday endorsed the December 15 resolution to have a solution to the political crisis before the polls in the state. They pointed out that their decision to continue with the BJP in the state was taken after "considering the urgency to create a congenial atmosphere for the ongoing political dialogue between the Government of India and the Naga National Workers." 
 
 
