Noida: A 50-year-old police constable who has filed several   queries against some seniors has alleged threats to his life from his colleagues. 

 The constable said it was his colleagues who got him transferred from Noida to Kannauj last month.   was transferred following a recommendation from Ram Pratap Singh, an MLA from Agra’s Etmadpur. Singh admitted having recommended his transfer and said he had done so merely because some people had complained to him about Kaushik.
 
 Kaushik had, during his stint in the  , filed many RTI applications against his bosses seeking transparency in the office. Sources said that his relentless crusade against corruption resulted in several inquiries against him, penalties and denial of promotion.
 
 The constable said an inquiry had been pending against him since 2010 when his colleagues in Meerut had accused him of holding a news conference against corruption along with AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal. The probe into the news conference, which Kaushik denied attending, was handed over to the circle officer of Baghpat, Dilip Singh, in October last year. According to Kaushik, he had visited the circle officer’s office to record his statement. He said two head constables — Iqbal Singh, currently posted in Bulandshahr, and Narendra Kumar, working in Ghaziabad — had visited his home his Faridabad last month.
 
 “They said they had come on behalf of circle officer Dilip Singh and demanded Rs 5 lakh from me to dissolve the investigation pending since 2010. They two police personnel also threatened me that I would be transferred to rural areas and face dire consequences if their demand was not met,” he said. 
 
 Kaushik alleged that the two head constables met a Kanpur-based ‘lobbyist’, Naresh Singh, and urged him to get a recommendation from the Etmadpur MLA on his transfer to Kannauj. The MLA’s letter to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister reads: “Kaushik is involved in anti-social activities. He has also gone against his senior police officers and degraded the police department. He should be transferred from the Meerut Zone to Western UP.”
 
 On December 14, the state police department issued a letter transferring Kaushik to Kannauj and directing him to join duty from December 16.
 
 TOI has copies of both the letters. Kaushik, however, is yet to join duty and has been deferring it saying he is being given threats. He met Noida senior superintendent of police Love Kumar on Monday and requested for security cover. “In the past, I had filed RTI applications against some police personnel. The transfer is the result of their vendetta against me. I fear they may kill me,” Kaushik said. Etmadpur MLA Singh agreed he had recommended Kaushik’s transfer but did not do a background check.
 
 “Some people had come to me complaining about the constable. They alleged that he was involved in anti-departmental activities and had been blackmailing senior police officers. I don’t know Kaushik personally and did not do a background check. I recommended his transfer on the allegations made by the people who had come to meet me,” he said.
 
 Noida SSP Love Kumar said Kaushik had complained to him about the alleged threats. “The Noida police did not make any recommendation for his transfer. I am going through his complaint and looking into the matter,” he said.
 
 
