Chennai: Tamil Nadu government’s proximity with the Centre had hardly helped the state and it had got virtually no assistance for development from Delhi, said DMK working president M K  .

 Participating in a debate on governor Banwarilal Purohit’s address in the assembly, Stalin said all through Purohit’s speech, the state government had praised the Centre, but it was hardly getting anything in return from the central government. Same was the case in the last three years, said Stalin, adding that economic growth was low and so was manufacturing growth in the state.
 
 The state asked for several thousand crores of central aid in 2015 and 2016, but got a pittance. “Governor’s address to the assembly must be a statement of policy to tell the public about the government’s course. But after reading the entire speech, I get the feeling that it is a paper flower. What is the use of being close to the Centre if the state government is not able to get any project or aid from the Centre?” asked Stalin. The government had asked for Rs 25,912 crore assistance in 2015 after Chennai floods, but received only Rs 1,305 crore. After the 2016 cyclone, the government asked for Rs 22,573 crore relief but received only Rs 218.76 crore and again for drought in the same year, the government requested the Centre for Rs 39,565 crore assistance but got just Rs 1,447.99 crore, said Stalin.
 
 At this state chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami intervened and accused the DMK of doing nothing for the state despite remaining in power at the Centre for 14 years. “Your party was in alliance with the BJP as well as the Congress for 14 years. What projects did you bring to Tamil Nadu? At present, we are not in alliance at the Centre, but still are trying our best to get new projects and aid for the state,” said Palaniswami. He said there were some projects like new bus stands coming up in Coimbatore, Madurai and Salem. Stalin reacted by listing out various projects which were set up in Tamil Nadu when the DMK was part of the UPA government at the Centre.
 
 Continuing his speech, Stalin said, “In the governor’s address, there is no mention about the problems faced by farmers due to the ONGC project. The governor’s address talks about the financial crunch, but there is no mention about how the government is going to deal with the increasing debt,” said Stalin. As ministers tried to clarify, Stalin said such details should have been there in the governor’s address.
 
 The opposition leader also asked as to why Lok Ayukta was not being set up and why Tamil was not being used as an official language in the high court.
 
 
