Vartika Singh, Miss Grand International 2015, 2nd runner-up, was in Lucknow for   and celebrated the festival with her close friends and family. Vartika, who loves playing with colours, didn’t leave any stone unturned in having fun! "As a kid, till I was in class VII, I used to be crazy about playing with colours. So much so, that jo bhi mere friends Holi nahi khelte thay, I used to be after their lives to come out of their house. Even in my family I used to be the first one to colour people from early in the morning. Mera Holi khelna Holika dehan ke baad se hi shuru ho jata tha. I used to play ekdum jungli waali Holi. However, as I grew up, the whole focus shifted from festivals to studies. Board exams, then my graduation, I didn’t play Holi for several years," says Vartika.
 
  
    at Kukrail Picnic Spot, Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 But the former Miss India and now a successful model, is back to playing Holi. "All thanks to the Holi party of Times Of India that I attended, I started playing Holi again. After I won the Miss India crown, I was invited to the most happening Holi party by the TOI. And since then, I have started playing Holi again. Usse pehle toh I had not touched colours for a very long time. I still remember I had so much fun with the TOI family that day. And ever since then I have played Holi every year. My love for colours is back," shares Vartika.
 Telling us how she celebrated the festival of colours in Lucknow this time, Vartika says, "It was family time for me in Lucknow. I woke up early on Holi to play colours. Several aunties in my colony came to our house and my mom and I played Holi with them and it was so much fun. Another good thing about Holi was ghar ki bani gujiyas. I tried to convince my mom to get gujiyas from the market but she insisted on making them at home, as she still considers it a shagun. So I helped her a bit in making the gujiyas."
 
  
  Vartika Singh playing Holi in Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 And even though ‘calorie conscious’ Vartika tried her best to not eat too many gujiyas, she couldn’t resist them. "Pehle toh I resisted saying that they are loaded with calories,” she laughs, adding, “But then, as the day passed, I couldn’t resist the smell and ate a few. Then while watching a movie at home, I ate some more. Whenever the guests came to our house to wish us Holi, I would invariably eat one gujiya. And now, I will have to lose those extra kilos that I have gained because of this maa ke haath ki gujiays."
 — Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com
 
  
 
