Petlee.Peter@timesgroup.com

 Bengaluru: Owners of two dining tables — one that’s damaged and another whose base went missing during relocation — heaved a sigh of relief after a city consumer court came to their rescue. It ordered that they be compensated as they were victims of deficiency of service.
 
 On December 30, the IVth Additional District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Bengaluru, ordered furniture major Godrej Interio to replace or refund the cost of a damaged dining table set it had sold to a city-based customer.
 
 In early 2014, Rajajinagar resident S Kushal Naik, 48, purchased a Godrej Interio dining table set with four chairs for Rs 20,400 from S S Traders, an authorized Godrej store in Vijayanagar. The product was delivered at his home on January 1, 2014, but Naik couldn’t enjoy the new buy for more than 15 days as the chairs started coming apart.
 
 He then approached his seller, who referred him to the Bengaluru office of Godrej. Representatives from the furniture-maker visited Naik’s home and ascertained that the sold item was faulty. Naik also pointed to the cracks developing in the table in his correspondence with Godrej executives, who agreed to change only the chairs if the customer was willing to pay an extra sum for the newly replaced set.
 
 Naik lodged a complaint with the consumer forum on June 5, 2015 against the Godrej store and general manager of Godrej Interio, Karnataka region. The litigation lasted 30 months during which Godrej representatives failed to appear. 
 
 Slamming the company for selling a substandard product and delaying replacement or refund, the court ordered Godrej to provide a new dining table set without collecting extra amount, failing which it will have to refund Rs 20,400 to the customer apart from Rs 1,000 towards court expenses.
 
 Second case
 
 In another case, the consumer court ruled against Agarwal Packers and Home Relocation firm for failing to deliver the base portion of a teak dining table to a Bengaluru customer. 
 
 Nitesh Shah, 59, of Thubarahalli used the services of Agarwal Packers early in 2016 to shift his antique dining table worth Rs 1 lakh from Bengaluru to his hometown in northern India. The table was dismantled and packed into five cartons. Shah paid the firm Rs 9,120 for the relocation. The product was delivered at the destination but its base was found missing. Shah raised the matter with the firm, which admitted that a carton had gone missing in transit and will be delivered as and when it is located by its staff.
 
 After waiting for some days, Nitesh Shah lodged a complaint with the city consumer court. Agarwal Packers remained ex-parte throughout the litigation. In its order on December 23, 2017, the court ordered the company to pay Rs 6,824 for the missing part. The firm was also asked to pay Rs 1,000 towards court expenses.
 
 
