It all started with a bucket and broom for this Sakleshpur boy. Now popular as Kannada rapper  , the 28-year-old’s tryst with music began with him experimenting with rhythm on his morning routine of cleaning his father’s tiny store with buckets of water and the rustling sound of the broom. Today, the same boy is the winner of Bigg Boss Season 5. “I’m not surprised that he won. In fact, even when we saw him off as he left for the show, I had an inkling that he’d win. Of course, every mother has this feeling of wanting to see her child emerge winner. But as the days passed and I watched the show from an audience’s point of view, I felt Chandan was the most eligible candidate to win. Everyone said that every year, the candidate they expected to win has never won. This is the first time that a deserving individual has won,” says a proud Prema Paramesh, Chandan’s mother. So, what was the one quality according to her that sealed the deal for her son? “His deep thoughts and philosophical outlook on the show won over a lot of people. Chandan’s way of dealing with situations with maturity and his interactions with Niveditha (Gowda) have been especially endearing,” points out Prema. His father, Paramesh, adds that Chandan’s love for Kannada has been another factor that has contributed to his success. “From the beginning he was clear about making Kannada popular on the global platform. Whether it is Haalagode, 3 Peg or Tequila, he has popularized Kannada rap music, a genre that was ignored until now,” says Paramesh.

 My cousin, Suraj, is friends with Chandan and that’s how I met him. Dhruva, Suraj, Chandan and I cut a music album called Down South Rhythm about eight years ago, after which Chandan stayed with us in Bengaluru. I then called Arjun Janya, who mentored Chandan 
 —  , Chandan’s friend
 
 Chandan was a mild and shy boy who kept to himself. His passion for music or playing instruments hadn’t been explored in school. Looking back, Maybe he 
 didn’t get the right platform back then. As his 
 kannada teacher, I am glad he is popular as a Kannada rapper — Sadashiva Holla, Chandan’s teacher
 
 
 
