HYDERABAD: Confirming the worst fears that the area once known as the Rice Bowl of India is being slowly degraded into a desert, several farmers are now coming to the fore to reveal how they have been rendered helpless by the allpervasive shrimp culture that is eating into fertile lands.

 Several farmers are crying foul over the large-scale conversion of green fields in East Godavari,  , Krishna and   districts into shrimp and fish ponds ever since a letter written by retired high court judge, Justice  , was taken up as a public interest litigation by the  .
 
 Justice Dharma Rao had revealed how big traders are running the show by either luring farmers to part with their land for handsome annual lease amounts or threatening them. Farmers of small holdings are left with no option when thousands of acres surrounding their fields are turned into shrimp farming tanks.
 
 “We are left with no access to our fields and are ultimately forced to part with the land,”   Vegesna, a farmer-cumactivist from Bhimavaram mandal in West Godavari district told TOI. He added that once a field is converted into a shrimp farm, the land loses its character within two years and can never be turned again into fertile agricultural land again.
 
 Also, none of the shrimp farms have the required permissions even as their area extends to several lakhs of hectares in the four districts. The traders setting up fish or shrimp ponds need to obtain permission from the fisheries department in each district in tune with the norms laid down under GO Ms No 7 issued in 2013. The old tanks too are supposed to be modified in accordance with the conditions in the new GO and fresh licences obtained.
 
 But not only are the rules being violated, those conniving with the unauthorised business are facing no action. Murthy Raju said that even West Godavari collector   was rendered helpless in acting against an errant assistant director of fisheries, whose negligence resulted in the emergence of many shrimp farms in the district. Though the collector filed a written complaint with the state fisheries department in May 2016 seeking disciplinary action against the assistant director, the errant officer was actually promoted as deputy director later.
 
 “This shows the level of complacency and conniving of the official machinery with the traders who are bent on making money even at the cost of society. A serious food security problem is already looming large over the state and it is high time the authorities take note of it,” Murthy Raju said.
 
