NEW DELHI: Amid renewed pressure on the Dalit front, Prime Minister   would seek to blunt the criticism with another commemoration of the community's tallest icon B R Ambedkar. 

  Modi is likely to lead the inauguration of Alipore Road Memorial in the capital on April 14, Ambedkar Jayanti. 
 
  26, Alipore Road, was the last residence of Ambedkar till his death on December 6, 1956. It has since been acquired for construction of "Dr Ambedkar National Memorial". The sprawling 7374 square metre monument, with attractions of a themed garden and a meditation hall, will be used for celebrations related to Ambedkar, lectures and discussions. 
 
  The inauguration would come in the backdrop of fresh voices of unrest among the Dalit community following the SC's directive to ban automatic arrest and filing of cases under the   and SC (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. 
 
 The court's directive has sparked all-round criticism, with Dalit groups and the political class terming it as "dilution" of the special law and accusing the Modi government of not adequately defending the case in the apex court.
 
 While the Centre is likely to file an appeal against the court order, its delayed reaction is seen to have come under sustained pressure from BJP's rivals and Dalit MPs.
 
  Ambedkar has been at the heart of a strong saffron bid to appropriate his legacy since the advent of the Modi government. BJP had put the construction of five of his memorials, of which Alipore Road is a part, on fast track after coming to power, planning it as a strong outreach to the massive voting bloc. 
 
  In December 2017, two days before the voting in   where BJP was facing a serious threat from a restive Dalit community, Modi had inaugurated the Ambedkar International Centre on Janpath Road here. The BJP government in UP this week decided to add " " to the Dalit icon's name. While BJP has argued that Ambedkar used to sign his name thus, the decision betrays an attempt to bring Ambedkar closer to the saffron camp and neutralise his portrayal as an anti-Hindutva intellectual. 
 
  However, every BJP move to appropriate Ambedkar has coincided with anti-Dlit flare-ups, putting the saffron camp on the defensive. 
 
  In January, Maharashtra was thrown off gear when Dalits took to the streets to protest against the violence during the commemoration of Koregaon Bhima- viewed by the community with pride but termed as "anti-national" by hard-line Hindutva votaries. 
 
 Una floggings,   suicide are among other cases over last four years, which have tested BJP's Dalit outreach.
 
 
