Scores of Noida women ditched their Sunday morning sleep and put on their shoes to participate in a running event held at a mall in Sector 34A to conclude the Women’s Day week. 

  
  Participants took part in a zumba session organised at the event
 
 
 
 Deepak Mehra, founder of the brand that organised the event, said, “We decided to celebrate Women’s Day on Sunday by organising an event aimed to promote fitness and healthy lifestyle among women. Keeping the security of women participants in mind, we hosted the event within the compound of a city mall.”
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Kumud Mehra, co-founder of the brand, added, “More than 500 women from Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and   participated in the event. We started around 6am, there was a 2km run/walk, 5km run/walk and 8km run/walk and 1km run challenge. From a sari-clad woman to professional runners, corporate professionals and differently-abled, women from different backgrounds participated in the event. To make it a fun-filled activity, we also organised a zumba and bhangra session. While such events are common in Delhi and Gurgaon and see a large participation of women, it was exciting to see Noida residents coming out in large numbers to participate in the run.”
 
 
  
  
 
  
  The run was organised to conclude the Women’s Day week
 
  
 Amita Kanegaonkar, a resident of Sector 62, who stood third in the 1km challenge run, said, “I totally loved the whole idea of running alongside women from different age groups. Running or doing any fitness activity in a group can be one of the most fun ways to help you get fitter. It also encourages you to take up more challenges. While Noida has a lot of open space, running tracks and good parks, it has only a handful of running clubs. More such events should be organised in the city as   are warming up to such activities.”
 
  
  Running duo!
 
  
  All set for victory!
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Rekha Pandey, a resident of Sector 137, who participated in the event with her daughter-in-law, Shailly Prasoon, says, “Initially, when my daughter-in-law registered my name for the challenge, I was hesitant about matching steps with other young women. However, when I finished 5km, I didn’t even realise that I had covered so much distance. It was a fun outing and an offbeat way of chilling with my daughter-in-law. I hope to participate in more such events with her.”
 
  
  
 — Inputs from Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 
  
  
 
 
