MUMBAI: Three accused in the bribery for eligibility for free housing scandal in  ,  , have been temporarily dismissed from service. The incident occurred on February 2 when slum-dwellers allegedly paid Rs 5000 as initial bribe money and then took the enumerators to the Juhu police who lodged a first information report and arrested   who had accepted the money.

 Currently a biometric survey is underway at Nehru Nagar which is on airport land for ex-situ rehabilitation. The survey is being conducted by the deputy collector of the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) for the area along with a team from a private agency (MahaOnline) that has been appointed to collect documents, map the tenement and take pictures of the tenement along with the eligible family. The survey is now being conducted under police protection and is expected to be completed in two months. So far 4,500 tenements have been surveyed.
 
 According to a report submitted to the SRA, the complainant Jagdish Jangam owns three tenements in the Nehru Nagar slum of which two were marked by the deputy collector’s surveyor (KW_009A01130 and KW_009A00985) as eligible for free housing. The third unmarked tenement is located somewhere in between the two marked tenements, states the report.
 
 The main accused Umesh Padmashali in his statement to his employers MahaOnline said Jangam had been pressuring him to put a number on the third tenement and even offered a bribe of Rs 35,000. Padmashali said he tried explaining to Jangam that they merely collected documents on behalf of SRA and it was for the deputy collector surveyor to first paint the number in black indicating that the hutment is eligible for free housing.
 
 Padmashali claimed he refused to accept the money but he was beaten up by Jangam and 5-6 of his associates, who damaged his eye. They then thrust the money in his shirt pocket and dragged him to the police station alleging he had demanded and accepted money from them. An FIR was registered against four employees of MahaOnline. Padmashali was arrested and then released on bail.
 
 An official from the Biometric Cell said Padmashali was being coerced for several days before the incident. He, however, had not reported it to his immediate superior nor to any other team member. Though there are six members in the survey team, at the time of the incident he was alone. A   official said the team spreads out across the slum and each person is expected to collect data from at least 15 tenements in a day.
 
 “We have trained them to not coerce residents to part with their documents but to explain to them what the process is and what the documents are required for,” he said.
 
 Though the laid down procedures require that the deputy collector call for a meeting of the residents and explain the process, this has not been done in Nehru Nagar. Only notices have been pasted in the slum and many of them do not even mention the Cadastral Survey Number (CTS No.) of the plot for which the survey is being carried out.
 
 Housing for All has been the main thrust of the  . The state government has been pushing for slum rehabilitation in urban areas under the affordable housing scheme. The Centre's affordable housing mission is part of the United Nation's New Urban Agenda that calls for "access for all to adequate, safe and affordable housing and basic services and upgrade slums by 2030."
 
