PATNA: It may be a cultural shock for many, but more than 3,400 youths were kidnapped for  , locally known as ‘pakadua vivah’ in the state last year, official data revealed.

 “Pakadua vivah is rampant in  . About 3,405 youths have been kidnapped for forced marriage in the state. In most of the cases, marriages were solemnised at gunpoint or threats to their life and families,” a police officer said on Sunday.
 
 Last month, the ‘pakadua vivah’ of an engineer in a village in Patna hit the national headlines when he refused to keep his newlywed wife after he was abducted and forced to marry at gunpoint.
 
 According to the data, about 3,070 youths were kidnapped for ‘pakadua vivah’ in the state in 2016, 3,000 in 2015 and 2,526 in 2014. “In all such cases, either the youths and their parents have been forced at gunpoint,” said a police officer.
 
 Going by the police records, on an average nine forced marriages have been taking place daily in the state.
 
 Taking the number of increasing ‘pakadua vivahs’ seriously, the state police has asked all the district superintendents of police to be on the alert to check such incidents in the coming marriage season, known as ‘lagan’ beginning this month.
 
 Mahender Yadav, an activist working in flood-prone Kosi region, said kidnapping for ‘pakadua vivah’ is nothing unusual in the state. It has been reported for years. “What is alarming is that its number is increasing,” he added.
 
 Yadav said ‘pakadua vivah’ is an old social problem in the state due to the demand for dowry. “Girls’ families have been kidnapping suitable youths for forcible marriage. Families often use friends and relatives, and sometimes even hire professional criminals, to carry out abductions for marriages,” he added.
 
 Even the   Report 2015 – which is the most recent official figure available – confirms that Bihar is at the top in the country when it comes to the abduction of above 18-year-old males.
 
 The number of abducted males in the state in the 18 to 30 age-group was 1,096 in 2015. The state alone accounted for nearly 17% of the national figure in the category. 
 
 
 
