When Class 10 student   returned home after a short post-board exam vacation with his family, there was a letter waiting for him — from  ! The veteran actor had written to the 15-year-old  , appreciating him for penning a book at such a young age. 
A visibly excited Subhashish says, “It was my mom’s idea to send the book to Mr Bachchan because he’s a really influential person and actually responds to people who send him gifts, books, etc. I sent him my book almost two months ago, and he did reply to me.” His father, Subhendu Dey, interrupts, “Initially, he didn’t have the courage to send it to Mr Bachchan. We also didn’t push him. But one day, he told us that he should be sending it to Mr Bachchan. So, he wrote a letter, a poem, and sent them along with the book. I think this was in February, and we received the letter from Mr Bachchan in April.”
 
 
  
 
 It was in December 2015 that Subhashish started writing and he says that it took him two years to come out with the book. “I started writing during the 2015 flood. My school was closed for a long time and I had nothing to do. It was during that time that I had this conversation with a friend of mine about a girl who got bullied. One day, when I woke up, I had this story running in my head about a little girl whose mother is a pop star. The girl gets bullied and that’s how the story starts; later, the mother takes the spotlight. I soon started writing the first draft, and titled the book Fate’s Design,” says Subhashish, a self-confessed fan of American novelist George RR Martin. 
 So, what was the poem that he wrote to Sr Bachchan? “I’d actually written that poem for a friend. It’s about how people sometimes forget to live for themselves. I thought it was apt for Mr Bachchan, who barely has time for himself,” he shares. 
 Quiz him if the letter of appreciation has encouraged him to write another book, and he says, “Yes, I already had ideas for this second book even while was I writing the first. This one is going to be a fantasy novel, unlike the first one, which was a family drama.” 
 
