CHENNAI: A city corporation initiative to reclaim public spaces discreetly left out a patch of the footpath where a   worker had established an illegal car park, showing how the civic body too cannot wield its powers in certain corners.

 On Sunday, street vendors and encroachments were removed from the pavements of Ratna Nagar, a residential locality off Cenotaph Road. While most of the neighbourhood wore a cleaner look, the car park extending onto the pavement stood out.
 
 The   legislator   of AIADMK visited the locality to inaugurate a renovated open space reserve (OSR) park and told TOI that he had helped resolve a “decade old problem of unauthorised occupation of public space” in the area. However, he seemed not to notice the illegal encroachment made by one of his party members.
 
 According to Shri Kumar, secretary, Ratna Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, the stretch had been overrun by eatery stalls who had encroached upon the pavement. “The eatery stalls damaged the tiles on the e footpath and used to dump waste into the storm water drains and clog them,” he said, adding that their repeated pleas to corporation officials, to remove the encroachments, had fallen on deaf ears.
 
 This was until Nataraj intervened, said Shri Kumar, adding that the former DGP’s intervention was also required to renovate the OSR park. “The park had been shut for years owing to some dispute the corporation was involved in. We requested our MLA (Nataraj) to help. He spent from the constituency development funds to renovate and open the park,” he said.
 
 On Sunday, as Nataraj inaugurated the park, the AIADMK party member’s illegal car park cast a shadow on the MLA’s efforts. “He has blocked the footpath using stones to create space and park his car,” said a traffic policeman, posted in the area during Nataraj’s visit. A resident of a nearby apartment, who did not wish to be named, told TOI that the party member had also built an illegal temple on the road near his home.
 
 When TOI apprised Nataraj of the situation, he said, “Definitely, the corporation will take action to remove that (car park) if it is an encroachment.” 
 
 Earlier, Nataraj painted graffiti on the walls abutting the footpath from where the stalls had been removed. Residents also planted tree saplings along the road in a bid to improve the locality's green cover.
 
 
