When director   entrusted music man   the responsibility of composing songs and the background score for his next,  , he had only one mandate — every song had to have a fun element. “I wanted to catch everyone’s attention with the music, so the tunes and the lyrics had to embody fun. That’s the only brief I gave Ajaneesh and he has delivered far more than what we expected of him,” says Preetham. For Ajaneesh, working on this Duniya Vijay-starrer, was a new experience. “This was my first out-and-out comedy commercial flick and was quite a challenge. Comedy, as a genre, is a tough business. It is not easy to make people laugh, and it is even more difficult doing that with music. But as a music director, it is imperative that I dabble in all genres, including comedy. My earlier works have been rather experimental and my aim has been to establish myself as someone who can work with all kinds of filmmakers,” he says. Ajaneesh composed four songs for the film, focusing on “catchy beats” throughout. “I also kept in mind Vijay’s mannerisms and what would suit his image, apart from the situations in which the songs appear. I had to visualize what the songs could be like and compose accordingly. Like, for instance, the song Johnny Manasana, I knew it would be picturized on Vijay and Rangayana Raghu, so it had to be extraordinary. Add to that the fact that it is a number that occurs after they have a drink or two, so the mood had to be maintained,” explains the composer.
The soundtrack of Johnny Johnny… gave Ajaneesh the opportunity to work with popular singer   on a melody called Neene Nanagellam, which the team is likely to release this week. “Even though I prefer working with local talent to get the diction and feel right, I love Armaan’s voice and when Preetham suggested that we get him for the song, I thought it was worth a shot. It has worked out perfectly and everyone will get to hear it soon,” he says.
 As for getting   to sing the title track, Ajaneesh adds that the Power Star’s voice has a special appeal, which uplifts any track that he sings. “While I would love to make Appu sir sing more romantic melodies, I also think that he brings a certain uniqueness to peppy numbers that he sings. Dhananjay Ranjan’s fun lyrics also helped,” says Ajaneesh.
 
  
