A week before ‘
 ’ released, we were in conversation with  , and this is how part of it went:

 
 A: Yes… woh haze hota hai na jo Dilli ke upar aa jata hai? Whatever the term is for that brigade, the ones that have extreme views on everything... I look at all that as a haze, which is blocking the vision to what we actually are. There will be a time when this haze will clear. The way I see it, maybe I’m just eternally optimistic about my country and its people. Inherently, we are a tolerant, loving, resilient, and a culturally and historically rich people. Which is why we survive. We survive the cycles of aggression on us. And we overcome it. Then occasionally we become aggressive. Those are cycles. But this too shall pass, I feel. It may be a very, very simplistic and optimistic view of things, but I believe it.
 
 
 
 A: I don’t know. It’s my view. (Pause) I don’t know that. I don’t know where I fit in (laughs).
 
  
  
  Vicky Kaushal and   in a still from 'Raazi'
 
 
 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 Now, after an opening weekend that brought ‘Raazi’ critical acclaim for both its nuanced, non-jingoistic narrative and for the performances, as well as great business driven by cinegoers flocking to the halls driven by word of mouth, Meghna would have a better idea of whether the audience has bought into her view.
 
  
  
 
  ‘Raazi’ resisted the appeal of playing to hypernationalism and presented an understated, human story that neither demonized nor worshipped characters basis which side of the border – in this case, the LoC – they were on. The director’s pre-release nervousness as to whether the viewer would relate to such a narrative in a sharp, edgy environment is now replaced by a sense of satisfaction. 
 
  
  
 
  “Pakistanis who assumed that it will run down Pakistan – when they saw it, they were surprised. They have come on social media to talk about it. This dialogue is my reward. This is the message I wanted to put across,” says a satisfied Meghna. The crux of her message? “To love your country does not mean to hate another. The two are not related.” And does that not occasionally invite charges of being a soft-pedalling, candlelight-vigil sort of liberal? “So, okay, I may not be a Pakistan-hater, so what? Does that mean that I don’t love my country? The two are not connected. In my orbit and my soul, they’re not connected. I can love my country without hating the saamne wala. It’s as simple as that.” And the audience agrees? “95% of responses have been from people appreciating the fact that it is not jingoistic, especially in today’s time. It feels good to hear that.”
 
  
  
 
  This reflex is not limited to the director, though. The cast of the movie have been consistent in how they view the story. Alia, whose essaying of Sehmat’s character has been described by many as the finest of her illustrious career, has spoken in equally measured terms. “’Raazi’ is in no way Pakistan-bashing. Because you don’t need to hate another country to project love for your own country. That’s not the best way to go about it, and not the only way to go about it. You can go about it that way, but that is not the only way. We are not saying that ‘Hindustan ke aage kuch nahi’. We are saying ‘watan ke aage kuch nahi’. Watan mera bhi ho sakta hai, tumhara bhi ho sakta hai.” 
 
  
  
  The actors who played the Pakistani family have similar sentiments. Shishir Sharma, who plays Pakistani Major General Syed, tells us, “People have been asking me how it is to play a Pakistani officer in ‘Raazi’, and I ask them, does it really matter what nationality he is from? When you tell people that you are playing a Pakistani officer, they think it is a negative character as that’s the common perception. For the very first time, a Pakistani family, a Pakistani officer has been portrayed in a way which is not negative.” ‘Major Mehboob’   explains that “Just because Mehboob is a Pakistani, doesn’t mean he has to be a villain. He doesn’t have to be cruel or conniving. He can be human. He is a normal person, the kind we find in our country too. We also have agencies like the ISI and the army. It’s just an Army family who happens to be Pakistani.”   (Major Iqbal) emphasises that “Iqbal’s character breaks the mould of a Pakistani Army officer which we are conditioned to through past films. Iqbal is a gentleman with a soft heart. To live the gentleness of Iqbal on screen was beautiful. So many people told me that while you are watching the film, you forget the nationality of the characters.”
 
  
  
 
  While the authorities in Pakistan have not yet taken a formal decision on whether the movie will be screened there, the responses of initially-skeptical Pakistanis after watching the movie (mostly outside Pakistan) have been largely appreciative of not just the cinematic quality of the film but also of the effort put in to not applaud one side of the human story and run down the other. 
  Does the audience’s embracing of such a story – and indeed their appreciating that it did not paint a story in black and white – validate that there is still scope to narrate tales about duality and contradictions?
 
  
  
 
  “I sure as hell hope so!” exclaims Meghna.” Life is not black and white. Emotions are not black and white. Difficulties, troubles, tribulations are not black and white, they’re always grey. Why do we shy away from that? We should celebrate it, confront it. And it’s the difficult stories that do that. They’re also more engaging.”
 A lot of viewers seem to be saying “raazi hoon” to that.
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
