Chennai: In yet another daring attack on women, a security guard barged into an apartment in Kasturibai Nagar, Adyar on Friday evening and launched a brutal assault on a 23-year-old architecture student, smashing her head against a wall and savagely biting her lips in an alleged robbery bid.

 The police, who identified the assailant as Nirbhav Kumar Yadav of Bihar, said the victim’s mother and brother, who arrived soon after the assault, help neighbours nab him. He was booked under IPC Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 441 (criminal trespass), apart from Section 4 of Tamil Nadu Women Harassment (Prevention) Act and a court sent him to jail.
 
 The incident occurred around 8.20pm when Pratiksha, a fourth year B Arch student at a Kodambakkam college, was alone at her home with her pet dog. Her mother Revathi, who practises criminal law in the Madras high court, and brother P Rishi, a 19-year-old engineering student, had gone to a nearby shop. Her father Purnakumar was in Dindigul where was chief manager at an Indian Bank branch. Srinivasan, the guard at Sai Darshan Apartments, had gone to switch on the motor. 
 
 When Revathi and her son returned and found no answer to their knocks, they assumed Pratiksha, amid prepartions for her semester exam, had fallen asleep. They decided to leave for the house of Revathi’s brother in Thiruvanmiyur when they heard her cries and raised an alarm. Other residents of the complex arrived, broke open the door and overpowered Yadav.
 
 When police personnel arrived, they found Pratiksha bleeding profusely from the lips. She was also injured in the head when Yadav threw her against a wall and dragged her into a bedroom and her dress was torn, an officer said. 
 
 Pratiksha was taken to the SRMC Hospital in Porur where doctors plan to perform a cosmetic surgery on her lips. A police officer quoting doctors said she was out of danger.
 
 An investigation officer said, “The suspect stayed in the house for about eight minutes before her mother and brother arrived. The woman, a regular gym-goer offered stiff resistance.” 
 
 Yadav, a native of Nalanda district employed with Taramani-based Vijay Security Service, worked at a showroom in the day and at night guarded a store 400 metres from Sai Darshan Apartments. He stayed in Taramani. The incident has shocked residents of the 15-year-old three-storey building. “The complex has seven CCTV cameras but none was functioning properly. The digital video recorder (DVR) was not updated,” said a resident.
 
 A police officer who interrogated Yadav said the assailant pushed Pratiksha’s pet dog into a bedroom before attacking her.
 
 
