CHENNAI: Anointed a pontiff of the ancient Kanchi mutt when he was barely 19 years old,   came to wield enormous say in matters affecting the Hindu religion in the country, including the   issue. 

 
  
  
 Regarded as one of most influential spiritual leaders of his time, Subramania Mahadeva Iyer was born on July, 18, 1935. He was chosen to be deputy of Sri Chabdrasekara Saraswathi and 69th pontiff of the revered Kanchi mutt in 1954. 
  
 
 
 
 
 In 1994, he became head of the mutt which during his stint rose to be a spiritual and financial power house, running several hospitals and educational institutions including a medical college. At one point, he was negotiating peace in the Ayodhya dispute and no Union minister, prime minister and President of India would draw an itinerary to   without a stop-over-darshan at the mutt. 
 
 The year 2004 must rank as the most forgettable year for the mutt in general and the senior pontiff in particular as it was in that year he was arrested in connection with the Sankararaman murder case.
 
  
  
 
 For the sensational murder of Sankararaman, who was then manager of Varadaraja Perumal temple in  , Jayendra was arrested on a Diwali day, on November 11, 2004.
  
  
 
 
 
 The acharya had been in jail till January 5, 2005 when he was released on bail. He and all others were acquitted of all charges by a Puducherry special court in 2013. The territorial administration, which became the prosecuting state after trial was shifted out of Tamil Nadu, decided not to go on appeal against the acquittal. 
  
  
 The murder case and the shock arrest of both Jayendra Saraswathi and his junior pontiff Vijayendra Saraswathi robbed the spiritual shine of the Kanchi mutt so much that it stopped getting VVIP visits for several years thereafter. 
 
 It was former President Pranab Mukherjee who broke the taboo when he made a visit to the mutt, weeks before he was to lay down his office.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Now it is back to its spiritual bustle. And the death of the senior pontiff will weigh heavily on everyone associated with the Kanchi mutt for several years to come.
  
  
 
 
  MUTTS AND THEIR SEERS
 
  
  
 
