VIJAYAWADA: Shocked by the lack of any allocation for   in the Union budget, chief minister and   president Chandrababu Naidu convened an emergency meeting of the party brass on Friday and another of the TDP parliamentary meeting on Sunday to taking a decision on whether to continue with the TDP-BJP alliance both at the Centre and at the state.

 Minutes after presentation of the budget in Delhi by Union finance minister  , Naidu conducted a teleconference with party leaders and MPs in Delhi and took stock of the situation. “Allocations are very dissatisfactory and it’s for BJP to explain how will it address this. In the meantime, we will take the message to the people as to how AP was totally ignored in the budget,” was the message the CM conveyed to partymen. Sources said, several ministers and MPs told the CM that injustice can be only answered by severing the alliance. “However, Naidu advocated restraint for the time and suggested they wait for the budget session to end before taking a decision. By evening, however, he convened a meeting of party leaders and of the TDPP on Sunday as disappointment over the treatment meted out to AP in the budget was wide and deep,” said sources.
 
  
  
 
 
 In the evening, Naidu held an informal meeting with ministers at his camp office in   where he pointed to the Union government sanctioning several railway projects for Maharashtra and ignoring AP completely. “It is very very disappointing,” Naidu is said to have remarked. But resentment within the TDP did not subside. “If this is the situation, we will have to rethink the alliance,” said TDP spokesperson  . “The chief minister is unhappy with the budget. As this is the last budget for this Lok Sabha, we expected greater allocation of funds for AP, but that was not to be. Budget ignored the state which is facing serious revenue deficit and favoured developed cities like Mumbai and Bengaluru. It is highly objectionable. We will discuss the issue in the meeting to be held on February 2 and take a decision by the evening of February 4,” said agriculture minister Somireddi Chandramohan Reddy. All top TDP leaders are expected to take part in the meeting of partymen convened for Friday in Vijayawada to be held after the cabinet meet. TDP has 15   MPs and four from the Upper house.
 
