GUWAHATI/DIBRUGARH: The first draft of the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC), released at midnight on Sunday, sprung several surprises. With numerous disclaimers that it is a work in progress, however, it did not lead to panic among those who did not make the cut. While secessionist rebel leader Ulfa (Independent) commander-in-chief   has found a place in the draft NRC, many political representatives including   MP and All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) chief   did not feature in the first draft.

 Paresh   has spent his life leading a rebel movement seeking secession of Assam from India and is believed to be holed up somewhere along the China-Myanmar border. Baruah’s birthplace has been stated to be as   village (also known as Jeraigaon) in the Chabua area of   district. His date of birth is mentioned as February 15, 1957. Five other names of his family members — Bikul Baruah (brother), Renu Baruah (sister-in-law),   (niece), Sukapha Baruah (nephew) and Miliki Baruah (late mother) — appear alongside his name in the list.
 
 “Our entire family is happy. I had submitted the legacy data and the application at the NRC seva kendra myself. So we were certain that his name would feature in the list. He may not be aware of his inclusion in the draft NRC,” Baruah’s sister-in-law Renu said at her Jeraigaon home on Monday.
 
 The names of Baruah’s wife, Boby Bhuyan Baruah, and his two sons, Ankur and Akash, do not feature in the list, however. “We could not get the names of his wife and children included because some documents were missing. We will complete the process in the next phase,” Renu said.
 
 Paresh Baruah’s brother Bikul, a teacher, said his brother had left home 37 years ago. “I was just 12 years old when he left home. He was 11 years older than I was and we shared a special bond. We are elated that his name is there along with all family members in the NRC list. He is a son of the soil. He has taken birth in this village. So there is no question of his name not appearing in the list,” said Bikul Baruah.
 
 At the same time, many party leaders from across the political spectrum did not figure in the first citizenship list. 
 
