AHMEDABAD: A metropolitan court acquitted four persons accused of negligence leading to the death of an eight-year-old girl,  , who was killed in a lift accident in Vatva in 2012. The acquittal came after the Bharwads’ neighbours, who had stood witness in court, turned hostile.

 The chairman of the housing society, Chatur Patel; lift manufacturer, Javed Pathan; and two builders,   and Ghanshyam Desai; were booked after Khushi got stuck in the lift at   and died. Vatva GIDC police first booked them under section 304 of the IPC, for culpable homicide not amounting to murder, but later removed this charge and booked them under section 304A of the IPC, for causing death by negligence.
 
 All four persons were charged with causing death by negligence because residents of the area told police that they were responsible for maintenance of the lift but did not take proper care despite repeated complaints. However, all seven independent witnesses turned hostile and did not support the prosecution’s case when put in the witness box. Not only this, they deposed that the lift was in good condition and maintenance had been proper and regular. The eight-year-old got stuck in the lift because she was using it by herself, though there were specific instructions in the lift, that children younger than 10 years must always be accompanied by an adult.
 
 Only the girl’s parents, Rakesh and  , continued to maintain that the accused persons had been informed umpteen times about the poor quality of the lift, but they didn’t heed it.
 
 In its order, the court noticed that nobody except the parents of the girl had said that the lift was not properly maintained. Experts’ reports revealed that the lift met the stipulated standards. The court also noted that the investigating officer had deliberately not attached documents to chargesheet so that the accused persons’ position could be ascertained.
 
 In acquitting the accused, the court observed that had the instruction in the lift been followed, the accident could have been averted.
 
 
