LUCKNOW: The BJP government has ordered round-the-clock power supply to Muslim dominated districts during the forthcoming month of Ramzan in Uttar Pradesh. The move comes about a year after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during UP assembly election campaign, accused the then ruling Samajwadi Party of playing politics over religion by giving long hours of power supply on Eid than Diwali.

 
 UP energy minister Srikant Sharma on Sunday said that instructions had been issued to all divisions to ensure refurbishment of transmission and distribution system so that no power break occurred during the holy month of Ramzan. “We have enough power available with us. It is to ensure power supply, especially during morning hours when Muslims offer prayers and have ‘seheri’ (meal before sunrise). We don’t discriminate against any community on the basis of religion or caste,” Sharma told. Unlike the SP government’s policy of “appeasement of one community”, BJP believes in ‘Sabka Saath Sabka Vikas’, Sharma added.
 
 The move is seen as an attempt to thwart the opposition’s allegation of discrimination against minorities while ensuring uninterrupted power supply to places like Ayodhya and Mathura. It also assumes significance ahead of Kairana Lok Sabha and Noorpur assembly bye-elections in communally sensitive west UP. Both Kairana and Noorpur have a sizable Muslim population and are being eyed by opposition parties, such as Samajwadi Party, Congress and RLD. The bypolls are slated to be held on May 28 — in the middle of the month of Ramzan.
 
 
 
 
 However, the opposition isn’t impressed. Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council and SP veteran, Ahmad Hasan, alleged that BJP was “trying to communalise” the atmosphere by ensuring uninterrupted power supply on one festival. “The round-the-clock- power supply during all religious festivals was initiated by the SP government. BJP is all about lies,” he said. Congress leader Akhilesh Pratap Singh said BJP was “trying to communalise” the atmosphere. “It should not be about one particular festival. Round-the-clock power supply should be ensured on all festivals, irrespective of any religion,” he said.
 
