NEW DELHI: An   went berserk damaging cars and shops near   early on Monday leading to a major   among the  . The mahout and his aide suffered injuries while trying to control the pachyderm. Police started an inquiry into the incident after a video shot by a passerby went viral on social media. A probe revealed that the animal went rogue after the mahout tried to chain it while it was eating.

 Around 3am, the mahout and his aide took the male tusker for a walk near Yamuna Pushta. They unshackled its legs so that it could relax. However, while it was chewing on leaves, the men tried to shackle its hind legs due to which it grew furious. The animal bumped into two parked vehicles and uprooted bamboo poles of a roadside shop.
 
 “The animal ran from one side of the road to the other swinging its head. Fortunately, there was no one in harm’s way,” said  , a guard at a public utility kiosk near Laxmi Nagar metro station.
 
 A few minutes later, another mahout managed to climb onto the elephant’s back and calm it down. “This is not the first time that he had gone berserk. He usually behaves like this when disturbed while having a snack,” one of the mahouts near the Yamuna bank on   told TOI.
 
 Initially, the mahouts and the elephant owners tried to hush up the matter. The group illegally keeps elephants and camels on the encroached riverbank. The elephants are rented out during weddings at a hefty price.
 
 Experts said the animal may have been in “masti”, a phase when testosterone levels increase by as much as 60 times making it extremely aggressive.
 
 “Pachyderms need rest during this phase and should be kept away from the vicinity of humans as their behaviour becomes highly unpredictable. In the wild, the anger of elephants can be controlled as there are others around, but that’s not possible in a city,” said Faiyaz A Khudsar, scientist in-charge at Yamuna Biodiversity Park.
 
 Elephants are protected under Schedule I of Wildlife Protection Act and capturing them is punishable with imprisonment between three and seven years with fine not less than Rs 10,000. A person in possession or custody of any captive animal specified in Schedule I is required to declare this to the chief wildlife warden.
 
 
