GURUGRAM: A rap on the door followed by loud moans coming from outside woke up a 52-year-old woman in her house early on Wednesday. 

 It was 5am, still pitch dark, and the neighbourhood completely silent, amplifying the noise.
 
 When she opened the door to check, she found a man and woman having sex in a car parked right outside the main gate. 
 
 The woman in the car was her 26-year-old  , but she didn’t immediately recognise her and, to get their attention, asked loudly what their names were. But the two in the car just ignored the 52-year-old’s remonstrations.
 
 When she raised her voice a second time, the younger woman allegedly threw a volley of abuses at the 52-year-old and, when she approached the car, even quipped, ‘Why don’t you join us, why don’t you have some fun too?’ The man, she alleged, grabbed her hand and tugged at her dupatta. 
 
 The woman then woke up other neighbours, who called the police. The man and the woman in the car were arrested and charged with obscenity in a public place and, later in the morning, produced before a local court, which sent the man to judicial custody and granted bail to the woman. The man, who police said was a 20-year-old Najafgarh (Delhi) resident and is at present a Class XII student, was also slapped with   charges under Section 354 of the IPC.
 
 Police said both were found to be drunk at the time of arrest, and it appeared the woman had knocked on the older woman’s door, believing it was her house (the younger woman lives in the same area, in a house just behind the 52-year-old’s, according to local residents). 
 
 After that, the two had moved to the car, but the knock had woken the older woman up, who had come out to check, a police officer said.
 
 By the time cops reached the spot, the woman’s family members had also arrived there, police said. 
 
 The young man and woman seemed dazed and were taken to the police station by women cops, a police officer said. 
 
 “It was shocking when I opened the door and found them nude and in an objectionable position,” the woman said in her police complaint. The woman abused me and the man caught hold of my hand and tried to pull me into the car.” She also said she spotted a liquor bottle, a packet of chips and playing cards in the car. ASI  , the investigating officer, said they would look examine the car.
 
 “The two were arrested from the spot. They were produced in a city court from where the man was sent to judicial custody and woman was granted bail. The probe is on,” said sub-inspector  , additional SHO of Civil Lines police station.
 
 
