B N Thammaiah

 I needed them yesterday!” you tell your  . “We’ve hit our busy season and need more people here. Fast!” Regardless of whether a company builds truck parts or print signs, is a restaurant or an accounting firm, there’ll be times when extra hands are needed. Bringing in a temporary worker (referred to as a temp) may be the right solution. They can fill a gap quickly and there’s no long-term commitment involved.
 
 Over the years the role of temps has broadened. Early on, they were mainly lower paying positions — administrative assistants or general handymen. These groups are still among the most popular temp roles. However, today one can find temps doing accounting tasks, marketing functions, and other higher-level roles. For example, a trend that has been witnessed at C-level hiring, especially within the   community recently, is “temporary or interim leadership management”. Startups these days are exercising financial prudence. But at the same time, they do have a requirement of getting the top management to set up and streamline core business divisions. Hence, they are recruiting C-level executives for a short-fixed tenure. This is designed to achieve the perfect balance of getting the insight, intelligence and experience of C-suite leaders into the startup ecosystem and not spend a fortune on hiring them on a full-time basis. 
 
 Temp workforces can help when a key customer moves the deadline up on a big project and you don’t quite have the staff on hand, or a big-ticket project comes by and your company doesn’t have the requisite bandwidth to match   ( ) with existing staff. Temps also come in handy if a staffer quits with little notice, is on vacation while there is major work that needs to be done.
 
 An obvious advantage of using temps is their  . Companies can bring them in with little lead time. That apart, temps relieve the existing staff from being over-burdened and burned out at times of extreme work pressures and meeting tight deadlines or SLAs. They can be brought in to do specialised work the existing staff may not be qualified to do. Off late, we have seen specific cases of CEOs/ CFOs/ CTOs from large MNCs leaving their high-end, cushy jobs and instead associating with multiple startups as interim resources, often guiding them with their experience. Temps such as them, are adept at enabling companies to meet project deadlines and handle extraordinary business demands, thereby adding to the  .
 
 Another unique trend that has been observed is that most people who opt for a temp job often prefer their employment that way and do not necessarily aspire for a permanent employment or appointment. There can be two reasons for this — they either want to divide their time between personal and professional obligations and on their own terms and conditions, or they simply do not want to associate themselves with one company, brand or product. They want to follow the consultative approach towards their job. Mostly, both these can happen when a resource is specialised in a field and   it out is the best way to maximise returns on their (time and efforts) investment. 
 
 However, some employees still question the credibility of temp jobs when it comes to enjoying the same equity as that of permanent staffers in a company. A growing number of companies from high-growth industries is taking steps to bring in parity in the identity and recognition of both categories of employees — by bringing in temp workers within the gamut of similar pay structures, training modules,   policies and perks at the office space as that of their more permanent peers. Staffing companies are also taking measures to integrate temp employees seamlessly into their work culture.
 
 With work preferences of employees changing, we might also see the government coming up with robust mechanisms that ensure aspects pertaining to employee’s welfare aren’t compromised. We might also see a regulatory framework that makes it difficult for fly-by-night operators who run agencies without adhering to proper regulatory aspects. 
 
 Now that India has woken up to the various advantages of hiring temp and contract staff, the party has only begun. The year 2018 is when this trend will only get bigger with major industries such as IT &  ,  , hospitality,  , manufacturing and   seeing sporadic and intense requirements of human-resource deployments. The top earning industries are using temp and contract staff in their respective industries and have not looked back.
 
 In the recent past, contract-staffing was in vogue for manufacturing, oil & gas and other core sectors. But it was largely unorganised and did not get its due importance. With a boom in the IT sector, contract-staffing gained importance and popularity among companies and workforce because of the volumes it generated. Contractual hiring is predominantly done for individual positions, specific skill sets or short spurts of manpower needs and sudden demands. The understanding is that the association between the organisation and the employee is for a fixed duration and is subject to renewal. India is poised for a good growth year in 2018 and to quote an example, the IT contract-staffing leads the way in terms of numbers. All the major players in the industry have seen good growth in FY 2016-17 and the contractual staffing industry was a direct beneficiary of this growth. Retail, e-commerce,  , telecom and BFSI sectors are expected to lead the industry’s growth over the next three years.
 
 The huge demand for quick staffing solutions has forced recruitment companies to organise itself to ensure high-compliance standards and key in engines for speedy delivery. According to leading industry reports, the temporary workforce is likely to form about 15% of India’s formal employment in the next 10 years.
 
  India has the third-largest contract staffing workforce in the world, after China and the US. The government continues to be the largest employer of temporary workforce of about 15 million. This is followed by the IT and IT-enabled-Services and is expected to grow by at least 20% year-on-year in the next three years.
 
 The contract staffing industry is evolving rapidly from serving the blue-collared workforce to IT/ITeS staff, in addition to medium-level and niche roles within companies. It is no more a taboo to be a contract employee. The Indian job market is changing rapidly and premium words like loyalty, permanency, gratuity, long term, moving up the ladder, building a career, etc, are becoming old-school thoughts. The nature of the workforce in itself focuses on quicker and better career options, learning opportunities on the job, upfront remuneration rather than long-term wealth creation and job flexibility. 
 
 A similar trend is being seen in the retail and e-commerce space in India. Driven by demand for e-commerce delivery and retail stores, coupled with a wobbly job market, companies are being forced to take in temporary candidates. This category is witnessing a 20% year-on-year rise. Experts, who see less than 10% growth in permanent hires, have gone on record to state that their clients are hiring 15-20% more in temp job hiring.
 
 The market is still unpredictable and laying off permanent staff can be risky. Companies are moving towards temp jobbers. Temp for roles like delivery executives, shop-floor managers for e-commerce and retail, sales personnel for fintech industries are being sought after. While, salaries have remained the same, the demand has risen. Retailers are hiring temp workers through staffing agencies, graduates from tier-2 and tier-3 B-schools. Hiring firms witnessed nearly 10% increase in the number of freshers trained and hired for roles in delivery, procurement and IT teams.
 
 In conclusion, temp and contract hiring is getting a big recognition in India. The changing market dynamics, be it financial stability of companies, the way they spend their money on hiring, rotational or seasonal requirements of various jobs, traditional job roles meeting their nemesis with the ever-changing consumer landscape or simply the way people look at their job-role descriptions nowadays, etc, have paved the path for temp- and contract-job roles coming to the fore. The day is not far when future generations by choice would see a ‘9-5 job’ as a concept reduced to a minority of companies and employees. The fact that employees are increasingly willing to sacrifice the additional benefits that come with a permanent job, such as gratuity and health insurance, in exchange for a greater amount of flexibility marks the formal advent of the ‘gig economy’, which is here to stay.
 
 The author is MD,  . Views are personal
 
 
