PUNE: It was the first   in 2008 and Rajasthan Royals found a Most Valuable Player in an under-rated Australian allrounder —  .

 
 
 
 
 Then 27, Watson struck four half-centuries and took 17 wickets which anchored Rajasthan Royals to an unlikely title triumph. Ten seasons are gone and Watson, now a retired international cricketer, is still delivering the goods. The Aussie, after surviving a close leg-before shout in the first ball of the innings on Monday, launched a stunning counter on the Delhi Daredevils attack which helped Chennai Super Kings reach a big total.
 
 
 
 
 
 Before the auctions, Watson was termed a spent force by most of the franchises. They had reason to believe so, because, despite being one of the highest-paid players of   in the last two seasons, Watson failed to live up to his price tag.
 
 But   had their own plans. During his Rajasthan days, the yellow brigade had suffered quite a bit against Watson and they always believed he was a man who could fit into their scheme of things very well. “We always believe the best way to contain a player is to buy him,” Stephen Fleming had said, and they followed that theory when they bought him this season for his base price.
 
 It was Dhoni’s decision to get Watson and he had also planned long back that the Aussie would open the innings, something that he didn’t do for RCB.
 
 It has worked like magic and now, as CSK grapple with a change of home, it’s Watson who is excelling for them. The Pune pitch has a bit of grass and consistent bounce and Watson is showing how destructive he can be on this track. After a match-winning century against Rajasthan Royals in CSK’s first game in Pune, he was again at his absolute best against a Delhi attack which has a decent pace attack comprising Trent Boult, Avesh Khan and Liam Plunkett. He was eventually dismissed for 78 off 40 by leggie Amit Mishra, but by then, the Aussie had given CSK the necessary platform for a big total.
 
 CSK still have quite a long way to go before they can stake their claim for the IPL title which they last won in 2011, but if they do so, Watson would surely be one of their most valuable players.
 
 
