BENGALURU: The income tax (I-T) department’s Karnataka and Goa directorate on Saturday claimed that money is flowing in poll-bound Karnataka, notwithstanding the reports of cash crunch in the country.

 “While there are reports of shortage in some parts of the country, cash seems to be flowing in poll-bound Karnataka,” a statement by the DG (investigation) of the department read. 
 
 
  
 The statement came in the backdrop of the department’s recent seizures, which have been a little over Rs 4 crore in cash and gold worth about Rs 1 crore. 
 
 “As part of enhanced alertness in the wake of elections scheduled on May 12, the investigation wing in   region has stepped up surveillance and monitoring activities. Though the election process is just beginning, the wing has already seized Rs 4.13 crore and 4.52kg of gold jewellery valued at Rs 1.32 crore,” the statement read. 
 
 It added that of the Rs 4.13 crore seized, Rs 4.03 crore was in the denominations of Rs 2,000 and Rs 500. Though the department did not elaborate on how the seizures made in Karnataka were connected to the cash crunch reported earlier this week, its statement read: “When people are finding it difficult to withdraw money from banks/ATMs, seizure of these high denominations is raising eyebrows.”
 
 When TOI asked the department if it has seized the money and gold from people belonging to political parties or those affiliated to such parties, a senior officer said: “We are not aware of the sources being quoted by you. The cash seizure is under the provisions of Income Tax Act and we are not concerned about the political affiliations of the persons involved.”
 
 Among the places where cash seizures were made, Bengaluru tops the list with Rs 2.47 crore, followed by  , where Rs 55 lakh has been seized.
 
 The department said it has busted four cases and that among them, one person was intercepted with Rs 16.5 lakh and follow-up action was taken in Mumbai where another Rs 37 lakh was seized. 
 
 In another case, a contractor was held based on information that he had made payments to another person who in turn had withdrew the cash — Rs 55 lakh. The contractor then confessed to have concealed Rs 16 crore.
 
 Household items seized
 
 Household articles, estimated to be worth Rs 9.51 crore, which the department claims was intended for distribution, was recovered from a warehouse near  . “The district electoral officer concerned has been alerted to ensure that these items are not actually distributed during the election process,” the statement read. Another Rs 50 lakh was seized from an individual.
 
 
