PUNE:   in Kasba Peth close to   was once bustling with people. Now, a strange quiet hangs over most portions of the rundown wada.

 A place where festive celebrations would last a week with neighbours who lived like a large family, is subdued.
 
 From 500 residents a few years ago, the wada now houses only 50 people, living in the rear portion of the wada. The front is in a state of disrepair.
 
 Motewada’s resident, Suman Kandare said, “Festivals were once grand with everyone joining in. We still celebrate but it is not as much fun as most of the people have moved out. I have been staying at Motewada for 52 years and my family has been staying here from even before. We would have children running around the wada and there was a lot of merriment.
 
 The wada itself has lost huge portions and the joy of living together has diminished.” 
  
 
 Kandare said the wada kept deteriorating with each passing monsoon forcing residents to move out. “We were lucky to get permission to refurbish the interiors of our home every now and then. We could strengthen our walls from the inside and replace the wooden roof with tin sheets. Despite this, we are in a situation where our house is neither falling nor is it standing firm as the foundations are weakening by the day. The structure at the entry of the wada has become weak and we are under constant fear that it will collapse,” she said.
 
 The entrance displays an old board stating the address as Motewada Mangal Karyalaya, but one can only see ruins of the place. According to the residents, the first floor of collapsed some years ago and has been so for years.
 
  had identified 142 dangerous buildings, including 35 in the 'highly risky' and 'unfit to live in' category in 2016.
 
 Most of these buildings are old wadas in  , Mangalwar Peth, Budhwar Peth, Guruwar Peth, Shukrawar Peth, Shaniwar Peth, Raviwar Peth, Sadashiv Peth, Narayan Peth, Rasta and Kasba Peth Motewada’s location, just 100 metres from Shaniwarwada, has taken a toll on the building and the residents. The   has refused permission for any refurbishing or reconstruction of the buildings within 100 metres of the heritage sites, not only in Pune, but across the country.
 
 Another resident, Madhavi Kabdule said, “This wada has been standing here for the last 150 to 200 years and the foundation has weakened. We are ready to undertake restroration work but we need permission. Neither the government nor the owners are willing to restore the wada.”
 
 The Ghorpade family moved out some years ago. “We continue to pay rent for our house at the wada. Like us, many continue to hold possession of their houses, which are locked. The entire first floor has given way and when repairs were not possible, most families decided to move out,” Chanda Ghorpade said.
 
 She misses the life they had in the wada. “ All the neighbours were like family. People stood by each other at all times. Festivals were celebrated together, when someone went out they would ask if someone needed something. All the doors would be open for all residents. We now live in flats but hardly communicate with our neighbours.”
 
