JAIPUR: Even after the   (CBFC) cleared  's controversial film 'Padmavati', trouble seems to be brewing again for the period drama. 

 On Friday, both   and Shree Rajput   demanded a complete ban on the film in Delhi and Jaipur, respectively.
 
 Hours after Sukdev Singh Gogamedi of Shree Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena called for a complete ban on 'Padmavati' at a press conference, Shree Rajput Karni Sena also organised a press conference in Jaipur demanding the same. Lokendra Singh Kalvi, chief patron of Shree Rajput Karni Sena, said that they would not let the film to be released at any cost. "Members, who were invited to watch the film, have said that some of the facts in the film can upset both Rajputs and Muslims. But still CBFC chief   has ignored their views," Kalvi said.
 
 
 Kalvi said that a letter has already been sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to intervene in the matter.
 
 “It’s high time that the government of India and state governments set a precedent by preventing the release of the film which has distorted history. Earlier, Bhansali had maintained it is based on history. Later, he said the film was period history and, now, he says it’s fiction. He has not been able to clarify his point on the film.”
 
 “Nine people were invited for a pre-screening of the film by CBFC. We had actually asked for a pre-censor and pre-screening committee which would evaluate the film based on history. We were also told that only three out of the nine were shown the film. There are also reports that Arvind Singh Mewar, professor K K Singh and Dr Chitamani had all suggested not to release the film on December 28. Thus, we demand a complete ban on the film,” Kalvi added.
 
 He also announced that, on January 27, a large number of Karni Seniks and other members of the community would visit Chittorgarh.
 
 “We are going to give a loud and clear message that the sacrifice of Rani Padmavati has not gone in vain. We will pay tributes to the brave maharani. Anyone who supports our call of banning the film can come and join us in Chittorgarh. People have clearly stated that they want a complete ban on the film,” he said.
 
 On asked why Karni Sena was not protesting against history textbooks that have chapters on Padmavati, he said, “Whenever we notice such things, we take cognizance. We also ask historians to give their opinion. We have heard that some revision is being made to these books.”
 
 
