In the latest episode of  , Naira and Kartik doubt Suhana's hand in the stolen idol and decide to investigate the matter. Manish calls Kartik for some work and he has to leave while Naira inspects the idol. As she turns around, she sees Swarna standing behind her.

 
 Rahul gives money to a guy and says that Savita and Suhana never thanked him for saving them from danger. He says that if it wasn't for him, they would have gone to jail for the idol theft.
 
 Naira apologizes to Swarna and says that she just wanted to check the idol once. Swarna says that she thought Naira would support her at the crucial time. Naira stops her and says that she will help her. Swarna folds her hands and asks Naira for help. Manish and Kartik watch the scene from a distance.
 
 
  
  
 Manish scolds Swarna for not trusting Naira and going out of her way for Aryan (Shubham). He gets angry and walks away. Swarna also leaves.
 
 Naira is upset and thinks the misunderstandings happened because of her. Kartik consoles her and assures her that things would be alright soon. Dadi calls everybody to discuss the engagement.
 
 Dadi tells them that the mahurat for the engagement was very auspicious and suggests that they should conduct the ceremony the next day. Swarna says that they won't have the engagement unless Manish agrees. Manish gives 'sagan' and says that he is happy for Shubham.
 
 The next morning, Naksh wakes up with back pain. Kirti tries to lighten up his mood. Meanwhile, Rahul, Suhana, and Savita feel happy that they were soon going to rob a rich party. Savita suggests that Suhana should marry Shubham for real so that all of them can lead a lavish life. Rahul gets jealous.
 
 Kartik and Naira compliment each other as they get ready for the engagement ceremony. Kartik gives her the ring she had forgotten in the bathroom. As they get close, Shubham comes in. Naira leaves the room. Shubham asks Kartik's help in getting ready and also tells him to convince Manish about Suhana being the right match for him.
 
 Naira goes and talks to Manish and asks him why wasn't he happy with the engagement. Manish says that he didn't like impulsive decisions. Naira asks him to talk to Swarna. He compliments Swarna and she smiles in return.
 
 Dadi calls Naira and gives her an engagement ring for safeguarding. Naira finds the ring beautiful and learns that it was Swarna's choice. Dadi says the ring that Suhana's family selected was beautiful as well.
 
 At the other house, Rahul, Savita, and Suhana look at an empty ring box, which is in their possession, and laugh at it. They arrive for the celebrations at the Goenka house. As they enter, Suhana asks Savita to behave and asks her to keep the box safe so that nobody discovers that it was empty. Lav and Kush hear them.
 
 The ring box ends up falling out of Savita's hand. Lav and Kush pick it up and say that they want to see the ring too. Savita tries to stop them. Everybody discovers that the ring box was empty. Dadi questions Savita about it. Rahul steps in and says that the real ring was with him. Naira looks at Suhana and Rahul.
 
 Kartik and Naira are busy with their work when Lav and Kush come to tell them the truth. Kartik asks them not to interfere in somebody else's business. Naira feels that there is something fishy about Suhana's family.
 
 
 
