KOLKATA: The state government proposal for a six-day week routine instead of the present five-day schedule met with a stiff resistance not only from the teacher’s association but also from the university teachers. The higher education department, however, said that all concerned should follow the uniform leave rules prescribed by the department.

 “The younger teachers are largely involved in research. If they are pursuing PhD, they won’t get immediate study leave. These teachers need to consult library every week or do research work. For that they need time. A government holiday or a weekend with preparatory leave dates are an added bonus,” said a senior Calcutta University teacher.
 
 “To amend the statute, government is taking a long time. The universities at times take the liberty of the existing leave rules in the statute to announce holidays or grant leaves to the teachers, which we will have to forgo now. Now we place leaves before the executive council but if the government refuses to include leaves within the university statute then there will be no flexibility. Government do not want new statuette to be in place because they are against elected representatives in decision making bodies. But they want to take the leave sanction within their control,” said  , assistant secretary  .
 
 The higher education department, however, is not ready to buy JUTA’s logic. A higher education department notification said there is no need for incorporating the uniform leave provision in the statute. The notification on February 15, 2018 says the ‘uniform leave rules’ issued by the department regulating the leave-related matters of the teachers and the other academic staff of the government-aided colleges are very much effective and there is no need of incorporating in the statutes of the affiliating universities since the subject matter is no longer subject of the statues of the universities and the uniform leave rules are in no way inconsistent or contradictory to the act.
 
