PATNA: Schools in Patna made special arrangements for parents and kids on Friday to show the broadcast of ‘Pareeksha pe Charcha’, a programme in which Prime Minister   advised students how to deal with exam stress.

 Out of 45 students selected from across the country to ask questions from the PM in the one-and-a-half hour long video conferencing session, one girl from Patna asked how to overpower exam stress through diet.
 
 Shrishti Kumari, a student of Class X at Litera Valley School asked: “Do you think our diet plays any role in managing exam stress? Would you suggest any precautions in our diet during exams?”
 
 The PM replied: “Students should challenge themselves and work hard. Yoga and quality sleep are wonderful ways to improve concentration.”
 
 Loyola High School principal Brother Satheesh K Don said more than 600 students watched the interactive session through projector on the school premises. “We had earlier notified the students to attend the school today for the PM’s programme. Students found the session motivating and I believe parents should also watch this,” he said.
 
 Baldwin Academy principal Rajiv Ranjan Sinha also hailed the PM’s programme. “When a dynamic personality like PM urged the students to do this, it will have more impact. It was very interesting session and most students shared their experience after watching the broadcast.”
 
 St Karen’s High School (SKHS) and St Karen’s   downloaded the video and will upload it to their school website shortly. SKHS principal Seema Singh said students were not able to watch the programme properly due to some technical snag.
 
 Sharing her experience, Shambhavi Singh, a Class XII student of Notre Dame Academy said: “I love the part when our PM said we must not question or doubt the intentions of our parents as they always want the best for their children. And also that parents should understand what their children are good at and they should not plan their lives before time.”
 
 Rohan Kunwar of St Dominic Savio’s High School said exams have become more stressful nowadays. “We really need to study hard but take our exams with cool mind and smile like our PM said,” Rohan said.
 
 
