KOLKATA: Brisk walking early in the morning is supposed to be a healthy habit, but the practice may be doing more harm than good in the city at present.

 With the PM2.5 count consistently perched at a level way above safe limits, morning walkers in Kolkata are breathing in more foul air than the rest. While the city’s PM 2.5 count had crossed 400 — higher than Delhi’s count — on Friday, it touched 383 early on Saturday morning, according to data collected by the US Consulate’s monitoring station at Ho Chi Minh Sarani.
  
 The Kolkata count has been reaching a peak between 3am and 7am — a period which is generally believed to be the least polluted time of the day.
 
 On Friday evening, the count started rising at 8pm when the PM2.5 count read 359. It climbed steadily every hour, reaching a high of 383 at 4am on Saturday, then falling marginally to 372 at 5am. Even at 11am, the AQI read 352, which is extremely high, according to experts. A count of 301-500 is considered ‘hazardous’, exposing those inhaling the air to heart and lung diseases.
 
  
  
 Experts said the reading suggests a change in the pollution pattern. “Generally, early evenings are believed to be the worst in terms of PM2.5 count. But this time, it has changed to early morning. This could indeed be dangerous for the elderly and children. Early morning is the time when the former go for morning walks and the latter to school,” said  , an environmental scientist.
 
 The trigger behind this could be the fact that the temperature drops to its lowest at around 5.30am, pointed out Bhattacharya. “When the temperature plunges to its lowest point, the trapping of particulate matter in the lower reaches of the atmosphere peaks. Also, the dew content is at its maximum during the period, which, too, traps and sends particulate matter towards the ground,” said Bhattacharya.
 
 PM2.5 is considered to be among the worst pollutants since they can go straight into the lungs. “These particles are extremely small and can penetrate every orifice, triggering lung and cardiac diseases. This is why they are considered to be extremely dangerous for asthma and COPD patients,” said  , consultant, RTIICS.
 
 Mayor and environment minister  , however, said the US consulate reading was not representative of the city’s pollution level.
 
 “They have just a single station at a very polluted area where the reading would obviously be high. But this does not indicate that the entire city is just as polluted. We have written to them not to post the count of just one station on their website,” Chatterjee said on Saturday.
 
