NEW DELHI: After forcing themselves into a Hyundai Creta SUV   outside a mall in Saket, four men held a businessman’s driver captive for 45 minutes as they drove around   on Thursday night and then disappeared with the vehicle. The driver was pinned between the rear seats, where three of the men kept beating him to quell his resistance. Vishnu Chandra, the driver, later came to the Saket police station with his employer to narrate the tale to the cops.

 The 28-year-old Chandra told TOI on Friday that he left   around 9.15pm to take his employer’s son and a woman friend to a restaurant at the mall. “When we reached there, I was asked not to park in the underground facility because they said they wouldn’t take much time,” said Chandra. “Five minutes after they left, four men crossed the road and walked towards my SUV. Then one of them knocked on my window. I assumed he wanted to ask something and rolled down the window.” 
 
  
 The man forced his hand into the SUV and, before Chandra could react, had punched the driver on the nose because of which he blacked out for a moment. The next thing Chandra remembered was being pulled to the rear. “There were three men seated there. They started beating me and swearing at me. I did my best to retaliate,” narrated the driver. “I didn’t want anyone to damage my employer’s SUV when he had given me its responsibility.”
 
 He tried biting the men, but it only infuriated the men further. “They decided to throw me out of the SUV near Bhikaji Cama Place, where they claimed to have dumped other people in the past,” Chandra continued. “Then one of them called up another associate and told him to shoot me at the spot where I would be dumped. I was scared for my life and begged them for mercy.” 
 
 Chandra was eventually robbed of all his valuables and discarded at Bhikaji Cama Place. He was bleeding profusely and sought help from a security guard who had seen him being thrown out of the SUV. He took an autorickshaw to his employer’s house, from where the two went to the Saket police station, where a case was registered.
 
 Romil Baaniya, DCP (South), said, “We are verifying the claims made by the driver. At the same time, we have formed teams to go after the alleged robbers.” The cops will scan CCTV footage for clues. They have invoked Indian Penal Code’s Sections 392 (punishment for robbery), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) while registering the case.
 
 
