VADODARA: A total of 116 students in the city cleared their class X and class XII exams under the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), New Delhi – results of which were declared on Monday afternoon. 

 Both the   and the Nalanda International School recorded 100% results in both ISC (class XII) and ICSE (class X) examinations.
 
 While 69 students from both the schools have cleared their class X exams, 47 students from the two schools have cleared their class XII exams.
 
 Nalanda International School’s principal Shoba Menon informed TOI that 28 students from the school had appeared in class XII. 
 
 “Meet Shah had topped our school in science stream with 97%. Similarly, Ananya Iyengar has topped the school in commerce stream with 98.6% and Rishabh   has topped the school in humanities stream with 95%,” she said. 
 
 Two students from the school - Riddhesh Shah and Tanmay Ambadkar have secured 100 out of 100 in computer science while Meet has scored 100 out of 100 in physics and chemistry. While Iyengar has scored 100 in economics, Chawda has scored 100 in political science. 
 
 “In class X, we had 55 students. Adit Desai has topped the school with 94.67%. He along with another student Dwija Patel has secured 100 in computer applications,” she said. 
 
 “The fourth batch of 19 students of class XII have made us proud with 100% results in all the three streams - humanities, commerce and science,” said Dr Priti Shrimal, principal of Billabong High International School.
 
 “While Arav Singhal has topped our school in science stream with 97%, Megh Tanna has topped the school in commerce stream with 90 %. Arusi Thakkar, who has secured 98% in humanities, has topped in the stream in the city,” she said.
 
 “Sixty four percent of our class XII students have secured 75% and above. Thakkar has secured 100 out of 100 in both political science and economics,” she said. 
 
 “In class X, for eighth consecutive year, our students have secured 100% results with all 14 clearing their exams.  , who has secured 95.4% has also topped the city in class X,” she said, adding that 85% students have secured 75% and above.
 
 88 students of   school clear exams
 
 Vadodara: A total of 88 students including 65 who had appeared in their class X exams and 23 who had appeared in their class XII exams from SNV International School, Nadiad have cleared the exams under the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). 
 
 “Pratikraj Rajput, a student of our fifth batch of class XII, has topped the school in science stream with 96%. Niti Agrawal, a student of our ninth batch of class X, has topped the school with 95% aggregate,” said principal Sridevi Modekurti, adding that there are five students who have scored above 90% at the school. 
 
 
