Madurai: The gourmet destination, Madurai, is known for its spicy non veg dishes and varieties of parottas and dosas. And now, a no-carb paleo menu is catching up among the city folk with many of the restaurants offer platters of meat on demand. 

 Paleo diet, the modern fad diet, gets its name from the diet of the people of Palaeolithic era, comprising predominantly of vegetables, fruits, nuts and meat, but excludes carbohydrate rich foods like rice, sugar, dairy products, processed food, processed oils, alcohol and coffee.
 
 Amma Mess, a popular restaurant in Madurai, is offering a paleo diet for customers on demand since January this year. “Adhering to the diet plan is one major problem the dieters face when they travel. Hence, when the menu is offered in restaurants, it helps many who follow the diet. It is people from Erode and Tirupur, who had asked for the dishes first,’’ said M Senthilvel, owner of Amma Mess.
 
 “As a beneficiary of the diet myself, I thought of giving it to the customers as it is really a healthy diet,’’ he said. When people come here and ask for paleo food, they get their food cooked in cold pressed gingelly and coconut oil. “Free range chicken chops, chicken 65, kola urundai, eggs, crab omelettes, prawns dishes are mostly preferred by these dieters,’’ he said.
 
 S Surya, a marketing professional from K K Nagar, says that he had tried many diets and found the diet which allowed consumption of meat, easier to follow, than other diets. “It is a bit expensive, but I am experiencing weight loss and also feeling healthy, so I am trying to stick to it,’’ he said.
 
 Prithika, a resident of Anupanadi says that she was overweight and a friend suggested the diet. “I don’t see a big difference, in the monthly budget, as I am not buying many things like rice, flour, milk and sugar, and have started replacing them with specific fruits, vegetables, nuts, lots of eggs and meat,’’ she said.
 
 According to many of the star hotels in the city, they have no problem in offering the diet, as continental meals comprise predominantly meat.
 
 Phil’s Bistro, a restaurant that offers Italian and American meals, is ready to offer paleo meals, if the customer informed them of their requirement in advance.
 
 
