NEW DELHI: Phases I and II of   had laid the foundation of a robust mass rapid transit system in the capital, connecting all four corners of the city and the larger NCR.  , which is nearing completion, has connected the linear corridors of the earlier phases and made the metro accessible to most major localities of the city. But metro says it’s the third phase that was the toughest so far in terms of the   challenges it posed. 

 
  
  
 
 
 At 160km, the entire Phase III is equal to phases I and II combined. It saw work on 11 different corridors with 30 mammoth tunnel boring machines and a workforce of 30,000. The civil engineering challenges encountered on the way have been compiled in a book, ‘Delhi Metro—Phase 3 Challenges’, which was unveiled on Wednesday by   managing director Mangu Singh. Written by Anuj Dayal, DMRC’s executive director (corporate communication), it focuses on the three main corridors—Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar Pink Line, Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden Magenta Line and Central Secretariat-Kashmere Gate Violet Line. 
 
 “All these corridors were constructed through extremely congested residential as well as commercial areas. While the Pink Line passed through Ring Road, the Magenta Line was constructed along Outer Ring Road and the Violet Line entered the congested Walled City localities that had centuries-old buildings and innumerable structures of historical importance,” Dayal said.
 
 He added, “Many unexpected engineering challenges were encountered while constructing these sections and DMRC’s engineers had to come up with out-of-the-box solutions. At many locations, stations had to be redesigned while at many other sites, the movement of the gigantic TBMs had to be re-planned.” 
 
 For this phase, DMRC not only had to dig through rocky terrain, pass through thickly populated areas and cross over flyovers, underpasses and railway tracks but also cross the hurdle of its own existing elevated network. The Pink Line in particular, which intersects with different existing metro corridors at 11 locations, had to be planned and constructed keeping existing corridors in mind. DMRC reached a new milestone when the Pink Line was constructed above the Airport Express Line and the pillars rose up to 23 metres, the highest point touched by the metro so far.
 
 But the bigger challenge was of acquiring land. Compared to the previous phases, where acquiring land under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, was fairly smooth, the new land acquisition law made it tougher. At many locations, DMRC had to directly negotiate with individual landowners, which turned out to be a difficult and time-consuming process.
 
 The book lists out the locations such as Chirag Dilli, Okhla and Kalindi Kunj where acquiring land was tough. The entire Janakpuri West to Palam stretch of the Magenta Line had to be built underground as an elevated corridor would have resulted in massive demolition of existing structures.
 
 Work on underground corridors, which is always more challenging than building elevated corridors, saw a quantum jump in Phase III. While Phase I and II combined had 47km of underground sections, Phase III has 54km. 
 
 
