MUMBAI: A fire at Palladium mall in 2014 has culminated in a much-watched legal battle between the mall management and a tenant over alleged infringement of fire safety rules. 

 On June 24 that year, a blaze at the   mall caused substantial damage to the premises leased to an   company. After that, Earthwise Hospitality and Entertainment Holdings, which runs a comedy club, said it discovered that 1,800 sq ft of the 8,438 sq ft space leased to it was a "fire corridor". It said the fire corridor was illegally handed over to it as well as to other occupants on other floors of the mall, jeopardizing safety of the general public. The company said it spent Rs 1.9 crore to restore the premises and suffered business losses in excess of Rs 20 crore because of the fire.
 
 Phoenix Mills, the owner, accused the tenant of using the fire as an excuse to stop paying rent, which it claimed ballooned to Rs 7.5 crore, and terminated the lease agreement. Phoenix filed a licensee eviction suit against the entertainment company in the small causes court.
 
  
  
 
 Phoenix justified leasing out the fire corridor, claiming it was present on the plan of the licenced premises. "It is an additional fire exit, apart from four other exits present in the licenced premises," it said.
 
 The mall further said the fire corridor forms part of the premises only notionally for "better circulation" and that is "the reason the corridor is kept open by doors at both ends and no permanent fit-out is placed in it". 
 
 The management accused its tenant of taking "undue and wrongful advantage" of the fire and depriving it of licenced fees and other charges as agreed under the Leave and License Agreement of April 30, 2014.
 
 "You have defaulted on payment of our legitimate dues, despite resuming your permitted business shortly after the fire, resulting in heavy losses to us. It is evident you are intentionally avoiding your payment obligation on false and baseless grounds," said a May 4, 2016, letter written by the mall owner to Earthwise. 
 
 In its reply, the tenant said the mall sought to recover rent toward the fire corridor, which is "not only impermissible and illegal in law but also puts public health and safety at peril". "The suit agreement suffers from grave illegality of renting out of a fire corridor, making the entire agreement unsustainable in law and incapable of being enforced," said Earthwise.
 
 The tenant further said the mall "misled" it to believe that the fire corridor issue would be regularized. In November 2015, the mall management "dishonestly" induced it to deliver further cheques with an understanding that they would be encashed only upon regularization of fire corridor. When it raised the issue of regularization, the mall owner "threatened criminal action and extorted monies against the cheques delivered by us. It also issued termination notice dated June 16, 2016, without any legal basis, seeking to illegally terminate the purported leave and license agreement". 
 
 
