JAIPUR: Acres of land with zero greenery in   village on the outskirts of Jaipur turns into a ‘hot chamber’ every day from 10 am till 5 pm.

 
 Every second day when a water tanker makes it way to the cemented water tank constructed in the middle for animals to quench their thirst. The volunteers driving the tanker spend three hours to refill the water tank at least thrice as animals like cows, buffaloes, blue bulls come in groups for water.
 
 
  
 
 These volunteers are working overtime supplying water in Jaipur and in the radius of 100 kms for animals struggling in scorching heat. The rising mercury has exhausted the limited water resources for both humans and animals. The local administration is making efforts for humans but no effort is being made for animals.
 
 The group is working to provide water to animals. Bracing unbearable temperatures in the range of 40-45 degrees Celsius in Jaipur, the volunteers take a tanker on designated six routes in the city refilling water in cemented tanks every day. The areas includes — crossings, vegetable markets, highways, eateries etc.
 
 Every day, 800 litres of water is utilized on refilling water points. “The moment we refill water tanks, we see stray dogs and cows lining up to quench their thirst. This is the feeling which encourages us to work for hours,” said Sanjiv  , a director of the NGO Help Suffering Lives Society. Several villages have reported deaths of animals for want of water. "Our reach is very limited. Every day, hundreds of animals are dying for want of water. This problem can be solved with active participation of civil society. People should make a provision for water outside their houses," said Sankhla.
 
 The local administration has not taken any initiative for animals which are left at the mercy of Good Samaritan. Dr  , a veterinarian, says that the temperature above 40 degrees Celsius dehydrates the body. “When they (animals) excessively sweat, they desperately look for water. Absence of water starts deteriorating their energy level leading to organ failure,” said Sharma.
 
