NOIDA: RWA of Express View Apartment sector 93 have written to power officials over unattended complaints regarding non-removal of high voltage wires, open panel and meters boxes and faulty cables in the area.

 
 “We have written many letters to the power department on the matter, but there’s no action from them yet. Who will be responsible if any accident takes place because of non-removal of faulty cables, bus bars and high voltage wires at gate number 1 and the service road from where more than 80 buses leave for schools in the area,” said  , RWA president Express View Apartment sector 93 and joint secretary  .
 
 Pandey, who’s a resident of flat no. 142 A Express View Apartment sector 93 further maintained that open panel and meter boxes in the sector need urgent attention. “These panels and meter boxes can take any one’s life especially kids. If any loss of life or property takes place, then it will be the sole responsibility of the power department. We have met senior officials of the power department as well as Noida authority and apprised them of the problem,” said Pandey.
 
 Further, following Sunday’s thundershowers as well as that of last week, residents have also requested removal of all high-voltage poles from the service road facing gate number one of the society. “These poles should be removed immediately as all kids from the society come in school buses from this gate. There are nearly 90 school buses which pass through this gate which opens at phase-II road where high speed vehicles move. Because of the poles, we are not in a position to use our service road which enhances chances of accidents,” adds Pandey.
 
 Earlier, on Saturday (May 12), Pandey apprised   superintending engineer PVVNL over the issue at the designated RWA federation meet with power officials at FONRWA office in sector 52.
 
 Rana assured action and stated that that MD PVVNL has moved their file to the purchase department for the replacement of faulty cables, wires and panel boxes etc.
 
