PUNE: The management of  's   at   on   has issued leaving certificates (LCs) to nearly 150 students for failing to pay their fees. The parents of these students had alleged that the management was overcharging them and also demanding a deposit of Rs 10,000. 

 However, on May 3, the Bombay high court had given an order that school managements had the right to cancel the admission of students in case of non-payment of fees. The HC passed the order following a civil application moved by Zeal Education Society against the parents of Dnyanganga school who had refused to pay up.
 
 The school maintained that the deposit had been clearly mentioned in the fee structure. It also said that the parents had been given two warnings to pay the fees, which were pending for two to three years.
 
 The   claimed that close to 150 students were issued the LCs on May 18. An association member said, "The school is illegally charging Rs 35,000 as fees, which includes the Rs10,000 deposit. Some students have been issued LCs despite their parents having paid Rs 30,000, which is Rs 5,000 more than the tuition fee. The management has also put a false remark of 'fees not paid' on the LC."
 
 The parents said it was unfair that the management was issuing LCs despite students having paid up. "We will protest this move. We will also ask the education officer to intervene in this matter. We have asked more parents to join us in our protest against the fee hike," a member of the parents' association said.
 
 Jayesh Katkar, executive director of Zeal Education Society, said the parents had, on their own, arrived at a figure of Rs 25,000 as the fees to be paid. 
 
 "We had asked all parents who had fee dues up to three years to pay up within seven days. After that, we gave another reminder to clear the dues. There were some 300-500 parents who had unpaid fees. Some of them started paying up after the reminders but there were still some defaulters. We had no option but to cancel the admissions of their children." 
 
 Katkar, however, said that students who were issued LCs but have paid fees after May 18 would be readmitted.
 
 
