AHMEDABAD: The arrest of  , alias  , by   ATS has put the spotlight back on Pakistan’s spy agency   ( ).

 ATS sources said that special agents of ISI are suspected to be involved in helping Lambu and a few other accused past the immigration authorities at Karachi Airport, and ISI agents then escorted them to a nearby place for terror training in January 1993 — before the serial blasts.
 
 Gujarat ATS sources said that in the aftermath of the Babri demolition riots in Mumbai in December 1992, Dawood had contacted his smuggling syndicate headed by Mustufa Dossa alias ‘Majnu’ and   to execute a revenge operation.
 
 “In one of the conversations between the two brothers, ‘Majnu’ and Mohammed Dossa, they are heard saying, “ Ek mitti kar denge, chalo Dubai (We will spread devastation, lets head to Dubai)”. This fact emerged in the statement of one of the co-accused, Salim  , who has been convicted in the case.
 
 ATS sources said Majnu, Dossa, Tiger, Lambu and Kutta first met at a building near Musafirkhana in Mumbai and then headed for Dubai.
 
 “In Dubai they met Dawood Ibrahim at his house. Dawood instructed them to travel to Pakistan and get trained in making and planting bombs,” added an ATS source.
 
 In January 1993, Lambu and other accused flew to Karachi from Dubai. “In Karachi, ISI helped them bypass the immigration and took them to an undisclosed location near Karachi. Here they were trained in use of sophisticated arms, and making and planting bombs. Later they returned to Mumbai and executed the serial blasts on March 12, 1993,” said a senior ATS official.
 
 According to ATS officials, soon after the blasts, Lambu fled to Dubai on a passport under the name of Ahmed Kamal Shah. “Mohammed Dossa had obtained the passport for Lambu,” said an investigator.
 
 ATS sources said Javed Chikna is also named as an accused in the double murder of   leaders in Bharuch in 2016. “Chikna had planned the murders on the instance of Dawood Ibrahim’s gang and had them executed,” said an ATS official.
 
