COIMBATORE: When scientist   raised his voice for biodiversity conservation,   fought for   and M Sudhandhiran took steps to conserve Bhavani River in the 1980s, people were unaware of these concepts. It is only in the past few years that people have joined the crusade to preserve the environment and turned it into a movement. The trio were honoured at the 100th enviro meet held by  , an environmental organisation, on Sunday at the corporation higher secondary school, Sidhhapudur.

 When Osai held its first meeting in 2009 to discuss measures to conserve the city’s nature, only hardly a dozen people turned up. Its 100th meeting was, however, attended by more than 150 environmentalists from across the city and neighbouring districts. More than 20 environmentalists were awarded at the meeting.
 
 “We started this organisation in 2000 as we wanted to do something for the city. Now, we have a membership of 3,000 across the state with active 300 members from Coimbatore. We initially held the meeting on the last Sunday of every month and then it became a routine,” said S  , founder of Osai.
 
 The first meeting was held on fresh water fishes and the guest speaker was Manimeghalai from  . “We wanted to create a forum for nature lovers to educate them. We also wanted to bridge the gap between scientists and environmentalists to promote scientific conservation of nature. We later turned our focus on Western Ghats and we have taken up several projects on elephant conservation,” Kalidasan said.
 
 More than 100 NGOs and individuals have joined the crusade and they today discuss, argue and find solutions for the problems related conservation of environment. Many people travel from Karur, Erode, Tirupur and Nilgiris regularly to attend the meetings.
 
 “This is a naturally grown group that has passionately pursued to conserve nature. Many elders bring their children with them to attend the meetings. We want to focus on the youngsters and children as they are the future of conservation,” said an environmentalist.
 
 Forest department officials, organic farmers, scientists, industrialists, priests and the public took part in the meeting.
 
 
