Surat: Mystery shrouds the sudden death of Romit Bunki, 26, a national-level volleyball player, during treatment for fever at Mahavir Hospital here on Saturday. Romit, a successful volleyball player, had got married to Manali on April 30.  “We suspect negligence in his treatment. Mahavir Hospital authorities did not declare Romit’s death for almost two hours. The doctors tried to convince us that we should not send the body for post mortem. Since we refused to give any assurance to them, they informed police,” said Kirti Jariwala, brother-in-law of Romit. Romit was in Godhra on April 17 and 18 for a volleyball training camp. “He developed some health issues there and also had fever. He contacted his family doctor Mitesh Vaidya over phone. The doctor prescribed some medicines to Romit for fever but it did not go away completely. He contacted the doctor again and was asked to return to Surat. Romit was told to get his urine and blood reports done,” Jariwala added. “Romit consulted Dr Ketan Choksi and he told him to get admitted to Mahavir Hospital on Wednesday. He soon got admitted and his treatment began there. The doctors found some pus spots on Romit’s liver during sonography,” Jariwala said. Romit was under treatment on Friday night when he shouted at around 12.55am. Jariwala, who was present in the room, called doctors and nurses for help. “The doctors took Romit to ICU and almost after two hours, we were informed that he has died,” Jariwala said. “We have lost an important family member who was a big support to us. We lost Romit due to the negligence of the doctors,” he added. “The family members were asking for the body to be given to them but we insisted for a post mortem. We are also surprised because the patient was recovering when he suddenly died. It was necessary that the post mortem be done to ascertain the exact reason behind his death,” Mahavir Hospital’s managing director M C Dasilva said.  “Police were informed by the hospital authorities that the deceased had jaundice and was under treatment for it. Family members were raising doubts about the treatment and for that we have got panel post mortem done on the body and its report is awaited,” said deputy commissioner of police zone II, Vidhi Chaudhary. Romit had done Master’s in Commerce from Navyug Commerce College and LLB from V T Choksi Law College. He was looking after the family’s zari business and also used to give coaching in garba dance. His younger brother Raj, 24, is also a volleyball player. The family lives in Desai Sheri of Sagrampura.