DEHRADUN:   walks around in the sun for over an hour, keeping an eye on   practice on the square a day before his team plays the first T20I against   at the Rajiv Gandhi International Cricket Stadium. He is certainly not one of the swiftest moving around the field. There is a nagging jerk in his walk as he asks you to move in to the dressing room for a chat.

 
 
 
 
 
 You quickly ask about handling Bangladesh’s most popular pace-bowling prodigy Mustafizur Rehman. “It’s a cause of concern for me. It’s the second time he has come back from the IPL with an injury.” You could make out he isn’t pleased. His longevity has been one of the major reasons that he is revered as one of the better fast bowlers to have played the game.
 
 “We need to make sure we keep him (Mustafizur) fit and make him stronger because he is young, talented and has everything to offer. We need to get his mind right and get his bowling up to the standards he can be,” Walsh, the   bowling consultant and interim coach, says.
 
 That’s what the modern game demands. Walsh didn’t have to choose between professional leagues and international cricket. He understands and embraces the variations that fast bowling is seeing now. Yet, being a mentor to an evolving nation, it’s disturbing for him to see someone as exciting as Mustafizur could lose the plot. “We get an idea of the workload once he comes back. At the end of the day, the player himself got to own that responsibility because you are working for two different environment,” the man with 519 Test wickets says.
 
 Then there is the lure of hefty contracts from these leagues. And the glitz and the hectic schedule of a tournament like IPL overpower every other priority. “We didn’t know about his injury. That made it more frustrating. Had we known about his injury earlier, we could have done something to get him back on the park quicker. He came to play a practice game. The message has been sent to him. He has to communicate through the right channel.”
 
 For all the wickets he has taken, for all the intense battles he has fought on the cricket field, Walsh knows sustaining fast bowlers is the biggest challenge of all. “For any format of cricket to thrive, fast bowling is important. Any exciting fast bowler comes, people would want to go and watch him. I am also concerned is that we need to have pitches that will help these fast bowlers so that we have that excitement going.”
 
 Players from New Zealand and England have openly started expressing their will to play just white-ball cricket. There is more to just honing the cricketing skills.
 
 “It’s important for players to play as much cricket as they can. White ball or red ball, once you are representing your country you should be happy and proud. That’s the message coming from the Bangladesh management,” Walsh understands his role is to keep the best players in Bangladesh playing for their country.
 
 Here comes the other challenge. To have players like Mustafizur ready for big events. Preservation is the key. Bangladesh have developed a set of fast bowlers but they are yet to have a strong pool. “We need to make a strong pool that will keep the seniors under pressure,” Walsh gives out a way to drill responsibilities in the young fast bowlers. The helplessness came out soon: “The only concern is to get Mustafizur back in the park. Once he is back we will see where we require him more and how we manage him.”
 
 Money, contractual obligations and pride of playing for the country—hopefully somebody comes up with right measure to balance it out.
 
 
