Meera.Vohra@timesgroup.com

 Q uite contrary to his character in the Anurag Kashyap directed ' ', actor   appears more lean and quite at peace with himself. On his recent visit to his hometown, Varanasi, to meet his parents, the actor disclosed that prepping for his upcoming project, he has shed some weight while the buoyancy in his demeanour is the result of rave reviews received for 'Mukkabaaz'.
 “I feel like a born-again actor. Though I have been around for the last 18 years, it is only now that I have got my due recognition as an actor. I have been flooded with offers but now I can take my time to decide on the projects. The best part is that the stalwarts of the film industry have appreciated my work. I was really delighted when Shabanaji tweeted about me and compared my portrayal with the quintessential angry young man of the silver screen,   sir. It was a big moment for me as she is an institution in herself as far as acting is considered. Similarly, Naseer sahab also liked my work and analogised it with Robert De Niro’s 'Raging Bull'. Such great words for me from such great actors was really a very humbling experience for me,” says an elated Vineet. 
 Vineet, who made his debut with the   starrer 'Pitaah', says a lot of struggle went behind to reach this stage of his career. “But I always had belief in myself. I had written the script of 'Mukkabaaz' along with my sister Mukti Singh. My only condition was that if any filmmaker wants to make a film on the script, then I should be taken as the protagonist. It took a lot of time and finally, Anurag sir was ready to make the film, but with the condition that I should become a boxer in the true sense. I accepted his condition and went to Patiala for training for one year. It was an arduous task. Apart from the coaches, nobody was aware that I was an actor so the training was real, meant for any boxer. In the process, I got injured several times. My ribs were broken and I received several punches every day leading to a lot of cuts. I started off in an age when an average boxer is on the verge of retirement, so it was really tough. All this effort ultimately helped the film. Even the boxing scenes were real in the film. I had a boxing fight in the film with Neeraj Goyat, who has recently been awarded boxer of the year by World Boxing Council, Asia.” 
 Vineet, who is otherwise a licensed medical practitioner with an MD (Doctor of Medicine) in Ayurveda, will next be seen in another sports film, 'Gold' along with  . "My previous track record as an actor will surely help me not to be typecast. I have essayed different characters, whether it was 'Gangs of Wasseypur', 'Bombay Talkies' or 'Ugly', so even now I am being offered a variety of roles. As an actor I am open to all kinds of films, even masala films that I grew up watching, but provided I have something significant to do in the film. I want that my new journey as an actor should be a next step forward.”
 The actor believes that his boy-next-door looks have proved to be a boon for him. “In an age of real stories, a lot of film makers are keen to make such films. My ordinary looks fit perfectly with characters that are real and which people can relate to more. I am able to tell the story of a common man more convincingly because of my looks.” 
 
  
  Vineet Singh at Assi Ghat, Varanasi (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar) 
 
 
 Hailing from Varanasi, Vineet says the city has enriched him as an actor. “Mujhe Banaras se woh sab kuch mila jo ek actor ko mil sakta hai. Mujhe yahan se bhasha mili, sanskar mile. In fact, the city holds within itself varied characters from nearly all over India. You meet people from all regions of the country in Banaras. Even the structures on the ghats are a beautiful blend of architecture from various parts of the country. As an actor, the city offers you so much provided you have an eye for it. You can learn from an ordinary boatman or a flute seller. All these experiences help a lot as an actor, which has been the case with me,” he sums up. 
  — Meera.Vohra@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
