CHENNAI: With the city corporation gearing up to begin construction of a multi-crore   connecting Mambalam railway station and the   bus terminus, opposition to the project has come from residents who have urged the civic body to clear encroachments instead.

 Last month,   announced that a detailed report on the skywalk project, estimated to cost Rs 30.35 crore, was ready and that construction would begin in the near future. The 600m-long skywalk aligns in parallel with the Railway Border Road and  , offering a four-metre wide walkway for pedestrians.
 
 However, terming the project an “avoidable expenditure”, T Nagar residents urged the civic body to exhaust other alternatives in hand before investing big in infrastructure. “Why are people jostling for space on  ? Because commercial complexes and vendors have encroached upon it,” said S Jayaraman, member of T Nagar Residents Welfare Association.
 
 “Instead of proposing a skywalk, the corporation should retrieve public space on Ranganathan Street, Natesan Street and Railway Border Road from encroachers,” said B Kannan of the T Nagar Residents Welfare Association.
 
 Many residents on Madley Road too have opposed the project citing difficulties that the skywalk’s construction would impose on them.
 
 P Venugopal, advocate and representative of the Madley Road Civic ExNoRa, told TOI that residents from Thukkaram first, second and third streets, off Madley Road, would have their movements restricted due to the skywalk. “The first issue is whether it is safe to construct the skywalk’s pillars along the Madley Road subway’s parapet wall as the corporation has announced. The second problem is Thukkaram streets have narrow entry points. When construction begins, the residents in these areas will find it difficult to take their vehicles in or out,” said Venugopal.
 
 Both sets of residents have written their concerns to the civic body chiefs but are yet to receive a response. Corporation officials did not offer comment when contacted.
 
 
