PATNA: The detailed project report (DPR) for Patna   rail project would be ready next month and construction work is likely to begin this year itself, state urban development and housing department minister Suresh Sharma said in the assembly on Tuesday.

 National   (NIT), Patna and Rail India Technical and Economic Services (RITES) are preparing the DPR in the backdrop of the Centre’s new guidelines.   has been asked to prepare the comprehensive mobility plan and alternative analysis report as well.
 
 “The DPR will be submitted to the Centre for clearance in April and work will begin this year itself,” Sharma said while replying to the House debate on his department’s Rs4,413 crore budget. The opposition staged walkout.
 
 Regarding the four ‘Smart Cities’ (Bhagalpur, Muzaffarpur, Patna and Biharsharif), Sharma said special purpose vehicle (SPV) has already been constituted and Rs382 crore has been allotted for carrying out work in Bhagalpur, which was the first city in   selected by the Centre under the plan. Projects and schemes worth Rs1,000 crore would be implemented in each of the four Smart Cities over five years, he added.
 
 The minister said work on the inter-state bus terminus at Patna was going on at the cost of Rs302.34 crore. Besides, the government has sanctioned bus stands in 39 urban areas and the construction of 18 bus stands had been completed with expenditure of Rs60.33 crore. Work on 13 other bus stands has been going on with plan expenditure of Rs42.31 crore.
 
 Sharma said a team of engineers has been sent to Gorakhpur to study the use of traditional crematorium there as its device generates less pollution. The Gorakhpur model would be installed from the next fiscal in the cities having more than 5 lakh population and the other cities would be covered in the second phase.
 
 Besides, the government has sanctioned one multipurpose Samrat Ashok Bhawan (SAB) in each of the 55 urban centres identified and construction would begin this fiscal in 17 of them. One model SAB is to cost Rs1.39 crore. 
 
 In his reply to another House debate on the public health and engineering department (PHED) budget of Rs3,032 crore, its minister Vinod Narayan Jha said the villages identified as having arsenic and fluoride contamination in groundwater would be provided pure and safe drinking water by the end of 2018-19, and those having iron contamination would have it by 2020 end.
 
 
