NEW DELHI: Delhi   Rail Corporation is soon going to run electric airconditioned   buses to connect the   station of Pink Line with the Punjabi Bagh and Shivaji Park stations of Green Line. While the corridors cross each other at these locations, DMRC hasn’t provided any interchange facility between these stations.

 
 The Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) has been designed as a ‘ring’ corridor, which will form a circle on the existing metro network, with interchange facilities at 10 locations. The first section of the corridor between Majlis Park and Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus stations was opened in March.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 While the Pink Line has interchange facilities with all other lines that fall on its course, it does not have any link to the Green Line that crosses it between Inderlok and Mundka, resulting in no direct connectivity between south Delhi and areas like Paschim Vihar, Nangloi, Punjabi Bagh, Madipur etc.
 
 Till it comes out with a permanent interchange facility between the two stations, DMRC is going to hire a firm that will procure, operate and maintain feeder buses between the two stations of Green Line and Punjabi Bagh West station of Pink Line. To begin with, five 34-seater feeder buses will be operated. 
 
 “An interchange was planned but the considerable distance between Punjabi Bagh and Shivaji Park stations meant creating a foot overbridge with travelators. However, sufficient land is not available in the area between the two stations to create an overbridge wide enough to accommodate travelators,” a DMRC official said.
 
 As present, residents of areas like Punjabi Bagh, Paschim VIhar, Peeragarhi, Madipur, Nangloi, Mundka, etc have to take a circuitous route to reach south Delhi. Once the feeder services start, commuters will have the option of interchanging between the corridors by travelling the distance in a  , instead of taking a circuitous route.
 
 According to the detailed project report of Phase III, an interchange comprising an 800-metre-long foot overbridge between Shivaji Park and Punjabi Bagh (West) stations was planned. 
 
 However, DMRC decided to explore other options to connect the stations during the execution stage. DMRC is also carrying out a feasibility study to come up with an interchange facility.
 
 
