PATIALA: The special   ( )   in Mohali on Friday dismissed the application moved by the agency seeking transfer of the accused in targeted killings in Punjab to  . 

 The agency had moved the application on Monday, citing security reasons for seeking shifting the 10 accused to Tihar jail. These accused had been booked by the NIA in connection with eight incidents that took place in Punjab during 2016 and 2017.
 
 In its plea, the NIA had produced a copy of the Union home ministry’s order claiming there was “desperate threat” to the life of the accused of the targeted killings and they should be transferred outside Punjab. The NIA had stated, “So faced with the sole purpose of protecting the fundamental rights of the accused as enshrined in article 21 of the Constitution of India we have taken a conscious decision for the safety and security of the accused persons.” The probing agency had claimed that inputs had been received from intelligence agencies in this regard.
 
 However, challenging NIA’s plea, defence counsels   and Jaspal Singh Manjhpur contested the validity of the inputs received by the intelligence agencies. They claimed that the shifting of accused outside Punjab jails was not in the best interest of their security.
 
 The counsels also denied that the governments of Punjab and Delhi have given their no-objection for the transfer of the accused from various Punjab jails, where they were lodged at present, to the Tihar jail.
 
 They contended that if there was a threat to the lives of the accused inside Punjab jails, the NIA should have registered a case, on the basis of intelligence inputs and arrested persons who were responsible for the same.
 
 They also submitted before the court that even if there was a threat to the lives of the accused, their security inside the Punjab jails can be enhanced instead of shifting them outside the state.
 
 After hearing both sides, the special NIA court ordered that the application moved for transfer be dismissed.
 
 
