NOIDA: Local residents on Thursday demanded a rollback of hike in   tariff announced by   and threatened an agitation if their demands were not met. 

 On Wednesday, the Authority had announced a 25% hike in water tariff for residential, commercial, institutional and industrial areas, and a 10% hike for economically weaker sections and villages.
 
 
  
  
 According to S C Arora, senior project engineer, Noida Authority, the increased tariff (which was based on the report of Ernst & Young) was a result of the need for revenue generation for the Authority which is unable to meet its expenses.
 
 The Authority till now has been charging Rs 175 per month from MIG (middle income group) flat owners, Rs 210 per month from HIG (high income group) flat owners, Rs 260 per month from duplex flat owners, Rs 250 per month from owners of plots with 200 sqm area and Rs 470 per month from owners of plots with 350 sqm area.
 
 The RWA federation wrote to Authority CEO   on Thursday, demanding its roll back citing a slew of reasons which include extremely poor quality of water with absence of iodine in it, additional costs incurred by residents due to poor water quality by way of frequent replacement of pipes, membranes/filters in ROs, damage to water cooler/geyser tanks and installation and maintenance of water softeners, etc.
 
 “No hike in water consumption tariff can be justified. We strongly protest the hike, especially because the water quality is extremely poor, its cost of production is very high, Noida residents are already suffering the burden of additional costs due to corrosion of water pipes, damage to water cooler tanks, early replacement of membranes and filters in ROs and water softeners, etc. If the hike is not rolled back, we will protest on streets and not pay the bill,” said A N Dhawan, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations.
 
 K K Jain, RWA member of Sector 34 and senior vice president of FONRWA too maintained that the Noida Authority first needs to first provide clean drinking water to the city before thinking of any hike as residents have to spend a lot on ROs, filters and other purifiers to ensure that the water supplied is worth drinking quality.
 
 The industries association also rejected the hike, saying they do not use drinking water as they have “to purchase it from the market and are thus not entitled to pay the hiked tariff,” said Sudhir Srivastava from Noida Entrepreneurs Association.
 
 The RWA federation even suggested means of revenue generation to the Authority through resale of STP (sewage treatment plants) treated water. “Nearly 80% of sewage generated water is treated through STPs. The Noida Authority has modern STPs. This treated water is being sold by the Authority to NTPC, Botanical Garden, builders and housing societies at Rs 5/kilo litre. This rate can be raised to Rs10/kilo litre, resulting in higher revenues for Noida Authority,” said Col O P Mehta (retd), advisor to FONRWA.
 
 Even as Noida is expected to have a population of 21 lakh by 2021 (up from the current 15 lakh), the total demand for water by 2021 is estimated to be 590 MLD (million litres per day) from current 332 MLD. 
 
