WARDHA: Social organizations and member of national SC/ST commission have demanded a high level inquiry into the death of an 18 year-old scheduled tribe girl from Dahegaon, who was found dead on a railway track near Tuljapur on March 19, claiming it to be a rape and murder. Recently, thousands of women had participated in a rally in   to demand justice for the girl.

 Even as there is public outrage against the alleged negligence in police inquiry, cops from the Dahegaon (Gosavi) police station, 15km from Wardha, have maintained that it is a suicide. Cops had registered accidental death on the basis of post-mortem report and eyewitness account. 
 
 The girl’s family had approached police to file a case of rape and murder against one Vivek  , 20, resident of Dahegaon (Gosavi) village. The cops, however, had allegedly misbehaved with the family before turning it back.
 
 SP Nirmala Devi S told TOI that evidence shows that this is a suicide, not rape or murder. “The loco pilot, who is the eye witness, says that he had spotted a person on the track and despite continuous blowing of the whistle, the person did not move,” the SP said. 
 
 The department has suspended three police personnel following allegations of negligence in inquiry. The SP, however, claimed that the action was taken only because the cops had misbehaved with the victim’s family. 
 
 A source on the condition of anonymity said Lote is learnt to be very close to Dahegaon police. “They are trying to shield him by claiming the girl’s death as suicide,” the source said. 
 
 Nootan Malvi, a social activist, stated that the girl was found nude on the track with multiple cuts on her body. “Who commits suicide while naked? The girl’s private parts were completely destroyed. There is no reason to believe the post-mortem report,” she said. 
 
 Avachitrao Sayam, a tribal leader said that as per police the girl committed suicide due to a quarrel between her and Lote over a display picture on WhatsApp. “What picture was it? If it was not objectionable, why did she commit suicide? The evidence cops are producing is false,” said Sayam.
 
 National SC/ST commission’s member   visited Dahegaon village recently and met the girl’s family. Ivnate said she will recommend this case for   inquiry if police fails to submit satisfactory inquiry report to the commission. 
 
 
