GURUGRAM: The misery of around 600 families of   in Sector 71, who are forced to live in virtual islands, with no roads, shops or other conveniences in the vicinity, is likely to end soon. 

 The Haryana Urban Development Authority ( ) on Wednesday held a meeting with officials of MCG, department of town and country planning (DTCP) and residents to resolve the connectivity issue of the society. 
 
 The road which was dug up on Monday is expected to be restored by Thursday. Huda is also planning to expedite the construction of 1.5 km-long sector 70-71 road, which was earlier promised to the society. 
 
 Spread across 16 acres, CHD Avenue is in Fazilpur village and consists of 861 apartments, of which, around 550 have been occupied since 2014 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav told TOI that they have worked out both short-term and long-term measures to resolve the connectivity issues in the area. However, Huda officials revealed that the land acquisition for the 1.5-km long sector 70-71 road is yet to be completed. 
 
 “Huda had acquired land for 1.3- km stretch while the rest is yet to be acquired,” said Yadav adding that concerned officials have been directed to take the measurement of the land and get consent of land owners for acquisition. In the short term measure, the government agencies will ensure connectivity of the society through two revenue roads. Haryana BJP spokesperson Raman Mallik, who was leading the delegation of residents, said, “Encroachments from the revenue road will be removed by tomorrow (Thursday) and most of the concerns of the residents have been addressed.” Gaurav Mittal, director of the developer firm CHD, blamed Huda’s delay in construction of official road for the problem. 
 
 “We are facing problem because the government failed to deliver the services on time,” Mallik said. 
 
 The development has come as a ray of hope for the residents welfare association as they believe that the issue will now be resolved permanently. 
 
 “We have been interacting with the authority for last one year but nothing was done. We hope they will deliver on their promise this time,” said Ravi Ahuja, president of CHD Avenue RWA.
 
 
