PANAJI: The Defexpo seems to be following the incumbent   minister. If in 2016, chief minister Manohar   as the Union defence minister brought it to his home state Goa, in 2018, it is Nirmala Sitharaman’s turn to take it to  .

 On Thursday, Sitharaman announced the shifting of the 10th edition of Defexpo 2018 venue to Mahabalipuram near Chennai from April 11 to 14—the second one to be held outside Delhi, the ninth one being in Goa.
 
 “I thank the Tamil Nadu government for having allocated land along the East Coast, famous for conquers of the Cholas,” she said in Chennai.
 
 Parrikar had said in August that Goa would host the 2018 edition of Defexpo. He had also said that creation of a permanent venue for Defexpo and Aero India was under consideration with the state exploring the possibility of a joint venture with the defence ministry.
 
 Goa chief secretary   Sharma told TOI that he had not received any formal response from the defence ministry regarding the decision to shift Defexpo 2018 away from Goa to Chennai.
 
 In a letter written to Sharma, the ministry of defence had requested the Goa government for 200 acres along Goa’s coastal belt to set up a permanent venue for Defexpo and Aero India. The Union ministry also expressed its intent to hold the flagship exhibition in Goa, while offering to develop a modern exhibition-cum-convention centre on the allotted land.
 
 More than 80 countries are expected to participate in this year’s expo. 
 
 The ninth edition of Defexpo was held in March 2016 at Quitol Goa, where 232 foreign companies from 32 countries participated with 15 country pavilions. There was a growth of 12.6% in terms of space booking at the expo in Goa, said defence ministry officials.
 
 The announcement will come as a disappointment to Goa's hospitality sector which was counting on the mega event to shore up revenues at the fag end of the tourist season.
 
 However, several sections of society in Goa had criticised the decision to bring the Defexpo to Goa. The decision to organise the event, far from Delhi where policy makers are present, had not gone down well with foreign defence manufacturing firms either.
 
 
