KOLKATA:   — Kasba and   — have pinned their hopes on an ongoing KMDA project to curb the spate of accidents on EM Bypass. Over the last few days, there have been back-toback accidents in which pedestrians have been knocked down by speeding vehicles.

 KMDA has started working on dividing the up and down traffic by permanently blocking the median divider with concrete slabs. The height of these slabs will be such that no one can easily jump and cross them over. Once put up, pedestrians will be able to cross only at the crossings, which will have designated bus stops.
 
  
 “The Bypass is not like any other road. It is a high-speed zone and people have to respect that. Hence, we have written to KMDA to create this permanent barrier. This is for the safety of pedestrians. We propose traffic lights and zebra crossings at all crossings where pedestrians will be able to cross the road . We are hoping residents and road users will cooperate,” said DC (traffic) Sumit Kumar.
 
 The decision comes at a time when Kolkata traffic police has lined up several other plans to stop accidents — from proposing overbridges near Metro stations and using the stations as crossover points, marking bus lanes and creating subways at Ajay Nagar and establishing a new post at Ruby crossing.
 
 The file of the project, which had received approval last November, has been sent to the finance department for release of funds. “In the first stage, we want to cover the stretch between Maa flyover and Ajay Nagar,” said a KMDA official.
 
 Locals TOI spoke to wondered if the planners had made adequate arrangement of road furniture before implementing the plan. “Look at   and VIP Bazar. The Metro construction does not allow us to even walk on the sides of EM Bypass. The zebra crossings at these two spots might be near a crossing, but the bus stand is some distance away. Pedestrians cannot even cross from one side of the Bypass to the other at Ajay Nagar without at least one set of vehicles always on the move,” claimed Partha Sengupta, who resides at Madurdaha.
 
 
