CHANDIGARH: With only five days remaining before the deadline to apply for the position of vice-chancellor at  , as many as 60 applications have been received by the university.

 Interestingly, many of these applications have been submitted from south Indian states, besides the on-campus staff of the Panjab University, top sources revealed.
 
 
  
 
 Majority of the applicants from the university are from the science departments.  , coordinator, DST-Centre for Policy Research, and professor, department of microbial biotechnology, has also applied for the post.
 
 Prof S K Mehta, professor at department of chemistry, is another applicant for the esteemed position.
 
 As per the sources, from the department of physics,   has sent his application to be appointed as the vice-chancellor of the university.
 
 Dean of university instructions   too is among the list of applicants, sources said. Former dean college development council and geology professor Naval Kishore has also shown interest in the post, while Sukesh Sharma from the department of bio-chemistry has also applied.
 
 This is for the first time that Panjab University has advertised for the post of vice-chancellor. There is no age embargo to for the selection of the new vice-chancellor, since the chancellor’s office had decided to advertise for the opening as per the UGC/MHRD guidelines in accordance with the PU calendar norms.
 
 According to the PU calendar, there is no age bar in the appointment of the vice-chancellor of the university. A minimum of 10 years of professorship is one of the eligibility criteria for the post. However, there are many, among the applicants, who don’t meet the experience criterion but have applied anyway. The applications are being sent to the registrar office from where the sealed envelopes containing the applications will be directed to the chancellor’s office after the deadline.
 
 As per the PU Act VII of 1947, the vice-chancellor will hold office for a term of three years which “may be extended by the chancellor for such further periods not exceeding three years at a time, as he may deem fit”.
 
 As per the advertisement, the salary of the vice-chancellor will be determined by the chancellor. Currently, the position of vice-chancellor carries a basic salary of Rs 75,000 per month plus Rs 5,000 as monthly special allowance and dearness allowance as applicable based on the sixth pay commission, since the seventh pay commission is yet to be implemented for Panjab University.
 
 
