Bhopal: Slovakian tennis player  , who won the Indian Tennis Federation’s $15,000 women’s tournament in Bhopal on Saturday, was left to fend for herself on the streets of Bhopal after her victory.

 The former Junior   champion and her coach   were seen trying to flag down autorickshaws to go back to their hotel. They couldn’t find a vacant one.
 
 “Kahaan jana hai,” some autowallahs asked although they had passengers.
 
 One of them asked the 19-year-old Tereza to “adjust” with another male passenger but she refused. Finally, after 15 minutes of futile waving of hands, a spectator leaving the stadium saw their helplessness and gave them a lift.
 
 
 
 Just minutes before this, Tereza had been feted, and state chief secretary B P Singh handed her the prize money cheque. Officials took turns to be photographed with her. And then, she was abandoned. The organizers didn’t even bother to give her a cab. No one escorted her out of the stadium.
 
 Tereza’s ordeal is a shocker in a state that prides itself on its hospitality. What makes it worse was tournament director Manoj Kukreja’s response. He argued that players were “reimbursed” for local transport.
 
 “We had two registered hotels but Tereza Mihalikova did not stay there and chose a different one. Had she informed us about her plight, we would surely have made the necessary arrangements,” Kukreja told TOI.
 
 Bhopal couple Ujwal Buchade and wife Minal, who came to Tereza’s — and the city’s — rescue, said they felt bad that the tournament champion, a guest from a foreign land, was treated this way.
 
 “We came because our eight-year-old daughter Monisha wanted to watch the singles final. It is not good to see such poor treatment of international players,” said Minal.
 
 “We were surprised that the winner and her coach were struggling to get transport. They are our guests and it’s our duty to help them,” said Ujwal.
 
 Asked how she responded to their gesture, Minal said: “She was very grateful, and thanked us for helping her out.”
 
 
