BHOPAL: The swooshing winds and tap-tap-tap falling hail brought the city to standstill for close to an hour on Saturday afternoon.

 Gusty winds, heavy showers and black clouds marked the first spell of rains in the city this season. Bhopal streets dotted with hail gave the city a feel of hill station. The windspeed in the city was over 20 kilometres per hour which uprooted many trees and sheds, leading to minor traffic woes.
 
 Municipal corporation officials said that they received over 15 complaints of trees uprooting from Jehangirabad, Sonagiri, Link Road Number 3, Board Office, Tulsi Nagar, Anna Nagar, Mata Mandir, Patel Nagar, Shahpura, Indrapuri, among other places. In Piplani, a tree fell on a house. The tents put for an event in   also came down. 
 
 Hail and thundershowers were witnessed in other parts of the state as well, but the maximum rain on Sunday was recorded in Bhopal at 13.3 millimetres till 5:30 pm. The official of meteorological department, Bhopal circle said that similar weather conditions are likely to prevail in the city and parts of Madhya Pradesh on Monday too. “The cycer over west Rajasthan led to showers in MP. It would have its impact in the state till Tuesday,” the weather officials said.
 
 Interestingly, hail and showers failed to bring down the temperature in the city. The day temperature in Bhopal on Sunday was recorded at 28.8 degree Celsius — two degrees more than the normal mark and the minimum temperature in the city was recorded at 14.3 degree Celsius — two degrees above the normal mark. Both the temperatures were higher than the maximum and minimum temperatures recorded on Saturday — at 27.9 degree and 11.8 degree. Other cities that recorded showers in the state were   at 6.6 mm, Umaria at 6.0mm, Hoshangabad at 4.0mm,   at 2.0 mm,   at 1.9 mm, Mandala at 1.0 mm.   recorded a trace of rain.
 
 In the forecast for Bhopal on Monday the Met officials said, there would be a cloudy sky and chance of rain in parts of the city. Day and night temperature would be at 29 degree and 15 degree Celsius respectively and average wind speed will be 16 kmph. In the forecast for state the officials issued a warning of hailstorm in the next 24 hours at Gwalior, Chambal, Rewa Betul, Harda, Chhindwara, Narsinghpur, Seoni, Anuppur districts.
 
 
