NEW DELHI: A   wanted in a   case in northeast Delhi was arrested on Monday after a brief   with the police near Okhla Mandi. 

 DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said that around 4am, a team led by inspector Rajender Kumar from the special staff laid a trap near the wholesale market on the basis of a tip-off about the accused, Tanveer alias Mustaqeen, travelling in a Maruti Swift car. As the car was spotted near the Garhi crossing, a team started chasing it while another set up a barricade near the market.
 
 Seeing the police vehicle, Tanveer, who was later found to be wearing a countrymade bullet-proof jacket, started speeding. As his way was blocked by a police Gypsy, Tanveer rolled down the window on the driver’s side and fired at cops twice. As cops retorted, one of his associates managed to crawl out of the car and escaped after firing a few rounds at the police. 
 
 “We then managed to overpower Tanveer and took the pistol from his hand. It had six rounds in the magazine and one in the chamber,” said Biswal. The car had a fake numberplate. 
 
 Tanveer told cops that he used to work at an embroidery factory in Mumbai with his brother but shifted to UP and then to Delhi where he came in touch with several gangs. He finally became an integral part of the Chhenu Pehelwan gang that was trying to eliminate rivals Hashim Baba and Nasir in a gang war in northeast Delhi.
 
 Last October, Tanveer and his associates had chased Nasir’s right-hand man, Wajid, at Brahmpuri. After firing at him 15-20 times, they threw him off the terrace of his house and shot him again. A few hours later, they tracked another key member, Aarif, and shot him outside his house. A reward of Rs 70,000 was then declared on Tanveer’s head. 
 
 Tanveer’s gang also opened fire at a police team near Pul Prahladpur in 2016 while going to commit a dacoity in south Delhi. While four of them were arrested, Tanveer had managed to escape. Since then the gang had been involved in crimes around Badaun and Kasganj.
 
 
