Anindita.Acharya@timesgroup.com

 Chandigarh: Unlike Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand, where a majority of exhibitors and distributors are reluctant to screen  , fearing violence, multiplexes and single-screen theatres in Chandigarh will be screening Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s controversial film. 
 
 In most multiplexes in UT, the   is releasing on January 24, post 6pm. However, given continuing protests across the country, several multiplexes and single screens in UT have beefed up  . Police are keeping a watch on law and order in the city. Panchkula police, too, have tightened security.
 
 Yogesh Raizada, VP, Wave Cinemas, Industrial Area, said they have written to the UT administration to seek police protection. He said extra security personnel will be deployed at the theatre to ensure smooth screening of the film. Sources said security had been beefed up by 20%-30% at city multiplexes.
 
 BJP state secretary and media advisor Vineet Joshi said protests against the screening of the film were “unlikely to take place in Chandigarh”. “The character of this city is different. Segregation of people on the basis of caste and religion do not necessarily happen here,” said Joshi. 
 
 Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagdale said they did not have any updates on protests in the city but necessary arrangements were in place. “Security has been beefed up on outskirts towards Panchkula,” she said.
 
 As TOI already reported, Panchkula district administration met Rajput association of the district on Monday to ensure law and order is maintained in the town. Some theatres in Panchkula are still undecided on the screening of the film. “We have no information on the release,” said an official of Rajhans Cinemas, Panchkula. 
 
 Panchkula DCP Manbir Singh said security has been tightened and they had taken all precautions. “Our department is prepared. We are keeping a close watch on the situation,” he said. 
 
 Neelam Theatre, Sector 17, will run four shows from Thursday. SK Sharma, general manager, said he hasn’t asked for security cover but the police will still provide them protection if things go awry. “On Tuesday, police paid a visit to the theatre to see if our CCTV cameras are functioning,” he said.
 
 Cinegoers are excited to watch Bollywood historical drama Padmaavat. Raizada said the film will enjoy a good opening once it releases on January 25. However, he said bookings for the paid preview shows (to be screened on January 24, post 6 pm) haven’t been encouraging. “A mall was vandalized in Kurukshetra recently. These incidents have instilled fear among audience. So, they want to wait and watch the situation, and then visit theatres on January 25. For the weekend, there will be nearly 95% occupancy,” he said. Gurjot Babbar, 23, has already booked tickets for the opening show on January 25. “So much is happening around this film. I knew I had to watch it on the first day of its release. I am watching it with A friend at a multiplex in Industrial Area,” he said.
 
 
