NEW DELHI: It was a nightmare for   and out of Delhi on Sunday morning as almost 220 flights from   airport were affected by the season’s worst fog.

 
  
 
 Visibility at the airport fell to as low as 50 metres on the morning of New Year’s eve, with flight schedules going haywire. Low visibility also affected train services in the morning, with over 90 delayed, cancelled and re-scheduled due to the dense fog.
 
 Over 150 flights were delayed and nearly 50 were diverted, according to an airport official. Furthermore, around 20 flights were cancelled due to low visibility on the runway.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 According to Met officials, visibility fell below 200 metre by 6am which is classified as "dense" and it further intensified to “very dense” by 7am when the visibility fell below 50 metre in the airport area. Sources said that no flight could take off for nearly four hours between 7.30am and 11.00am— there should be a minimum runway visibility of 125 metre for flights to take off.
 
 "Fog of very dense category severely affected the IGI airport in the morning, with both general airport visibility and runway visibility at all sides remaining below 75 metre. This is by far the worst fog of the season," said an airport Met official.
 
 IGI airport is CAT IIIBcompliant because of which pilots qualified to land in visibility of 25-50 metre were able to land during this period. However, nearly 50 flights were diverted to nearby airports as many pilots were not CAT IIIB-compliant.
 
 The delays also led to chaos at the airport as people stood in long queues and waiting time stretched up to six hours for some flights. Airport sources said that even though visibility improved to 2,000 metre during the day and operations at the airport restored to normal, delays continued throughout the day.
 
 Meanwhile, the dense fog also led to 57 trains arriving late in the morning and 18 more were re-scheduled. Railway officials said another 15 trains had to be cancelled due to poor visibility. Met officials forecast dense fog for Monday morning as well with maximum and minimum temperatures to be around 23 and 5 degrees Celsius, respectively.
 
 The minimum temperature on New Year’s eve was recorded at 6.4 degrees Celsius — one degree below normal.
 
