VISAKHAPATNAM: An ambitious bus rapid transit system (BRTS) project that was taken up eight years ago is now likely to be upgraded to meet future transport needs.

 The   had built two BRTS corridors over a stretch of 43.36 km to ease public transport woes with dedicated lanes for the movement of   buses. However, the BRTS project was never officially launched due to various reasons. Now, under the ‘Smart City Master Planning’,   (the project management consultant of   project) had carried out a feasibility study to upgrade the existing BRTS corridors. Leveraging existing BRTS infrastructure, AECOM has come up with a slew of low- and medium-cost design solutions to upgrade the existing network.
 
 These include integrating technology and better amenities into the bus stops to provide real-time information to the passengers. Other facilities will include interior lighting powered by solar cells, precision bus docking, all-doors boarding, developing high visibility crosswalks, improving drainage provision at stations, developing safe pedestrian crossings at mid-block stations among others. Other proposed improvements of the AECOM study include intersection signalisation, improved operational management of the dedicated lanes and introduction of real-time information to passengers via phone apps and web services.
 
 The AECOM report has suggested a three-phased strategy to upgrade the BRTS network. The report also examined the future electric bus compatibility and the ability to operate battery electric buses in the BRTS corridors. It has proposed creating provisions at the bus stations to operate electrical buses based on the future needs.
 
 GVMC commissioner M   said the AECOM report suggests measures to be taken for implementation of BRTS.
 
 Even though the BRTS roads have been used for many years, confusion still reigns among the commuters due to lack of awareness over some lanes, which are exclusively earmarked for city bus transport. Lack of traffic controls and police presence at the intersections add to the confusion. The length and shape of the current geometry of the intersection also can create delays to the buses.
 
 
