Banks all over the world are buying gold these days, and the below-mentioned list talks about the top ten countries that are currently holding the largest reserves of the valuable yellow metal.

 Gold is indeed a unique metal. It never spoils, rusts or degrades. Because of its fact that it doesn’t change in color even when left exposed for hundreds of years, it becomes an interesting piece of trivia and talks about the inherent value of the metal. Gold is a reliable investment that acts as the perfect replacement in place of paper currencies or other equities available in the market. All leading banks and money lending organizations know this fact, and even the countries all over the world understand the need to maintain an appropriate level of physical gold.
 
 
 
 1) United States — Fort Knox, a military base in Kentucky where the US government keeps its gold, is probably bursting these days with the country’s gold reserves boasting a as much as 8,133 tons in strategic reserves. 
 
 2) Germany — With around 3,400 tons of yellow metal saved in their strategic reserves, Germany is a huge base of Gold. 
 
 3) Italy — In Italy, gold is known as “a reserve of safety” by those in charge of the Central Bank, which clearly shows why the nation has about 2,451 tons of the precious metal. 
 
 4) France — Though the population of France is around a third of the people in Russia, it holds almost twice as much gold. Estimated to be nearly 2,435 tons, the French surely know the value of gold. 
 
 5) China — The Kingdom of China highly considers gold’s inherent value, and is believed to have about 1,797 tons of it in their reserves. To break it further, the country has enough for every 17 people in China to have an ounce of gold if you divided it up equally.
 
 6) Russia — As per the reports and observations, Russia currently holds about 1,460 tons of gold.
 
 7) Switzerland — The Swiss people boast of having the most gold reserves per capita in the world, counting up to a whopping 1,040 tons. 
 
 8) Japan — Popularly known as the Land of the Rising Sun, Japan holds gold close to its heart and has a full 765.2 tons of it.
 
 9) Netherlands — Though the country is physically small, it seems to be big on Gold. Netherlands claim to have 612.5 tons of the precious metal. 
 
 10) India — A country that is generally obsessed with Gold, India also currently houses a large percentage of the world’s foreign reserves. This equates to about 557.7 tons of gold.
 
