January turned out to be an action packed (quite literally) month when it came to film releases. While Padmaavat grabbed the limelight and finally a ban in Gujarat, it did affect   in a big way. Gujarati films that were slated to release in the later half of the month had to be pushed back to avoid a BO clash with the much hyped film. This led to a number of filmmakers reworking their films’ release dates. But this also means an action packed February for Dhollywood as four films,  ,  ,   and   have already announced their release dates and a few more additions are expected to happen.
 
  CLASHING AT THE BO
  While most filmmakers look for an ideal release date avoiding clashes with a big budget film, multiple Gujarati films releasing on the same date seems like an unavoidable situation at the moment. With dates available where there’s no big ticket Hindi/English release, Gujarati films come face to face with each other at the BO. And most filmmakers seem to be making their peace with it now. Filmmaker Ishaan Randeria says, “Either the film clashes with another Gujarati film or it’s exam time, a big sporting event going on or a big Bollywood film releasing. We look at the best possible date.”
  However, others feel that changing a release date works in the interest of the film despite all the hiccups. Filmmaker Rahul Bhole says, “Reworking the release date generally works in the benefit of the film. At the end of the day, we want maximum screens and good show timing and if that becomes possible by pushing the release date of the film, then I see no harm. And there will be times when multiple Gujarati films will be releasing on the same date, but that can’t be avoided.”
  
  THE STORY REPEATS ITSELF
  This is not the first time that Dhollywood is witnessing a situation like this. Even at the beginning of 2017, a number of films were postponed due to demonetization making the first two months of the year a cramped calendar for Gujarati films. And this seems to have become a pattern with various reasons amounting to release dates getting postponed. “Even when the film is ready, we are not sure of how many screens we will get,” says filmmaker Jignesh Soni, adding, “This uncertainty forces us to push back the release.” Filmmaker Lagdhirsinh Jadeja says, “We wanted to release our film in 2017, but the scale at which we are making it requires more time and effort. So we have pushed the release date now.”
  Despite clashes, February seems like the month when the ball will start rolling for D-town. Dhollywood was all set for a rocking start to 2018, but things didn’t go as planned. But with an eventful month ahead, things are finally looking to shape well.
