In 1916, R Nataraja Mudaliar made ‘Keechaka Vadham’, the first silent feature film in south India. It is considered the first ‘Tamil’ silent film because all its actors were Tamils. In 1989, a film critic in Chennai raised the possibility of the film being preserved in a private collection in Rochester in the US. When contacted, the collector said he didn’t have the print. Unfortunately, the prints of all silent films including ‘Keechaka Vadham’ have been lost. Not only silent movies, prints of many talkies including ‘Kalidas’, the first   talkie released in 1931, have also been lost, as also many movies released in the 1930s and 1940s.

 How did the reels disappear? Young engineer-cum-film-enthusiast Sugeeth Krishnamurthy started his search for the lost reels of Tamil cinema five years ago. The attempt culminated in the making of a documentary titled, ‘The Missing Film Reels of Tamizh Cinema’ (1916-2016), which was recently screened in Chennai.
 
 The documentary tries to chronicle the evolution of Tamil cinema in its 100-years, focusing on ‘special’ films, which are either considered permanently ‘lost’ or ‘missing’. In his 100-minute documentary, shot with a mobile phone, Sugeeth questions the relevance of traditional institutions like film libraries and archival centres, and exposes the way they function today. He underscores the need to digitise reels of old   and make them accessible to the public.
 
 Barring director K Subramaniam, yesteryear stars like Nataraja Mudaliar, Samikannu Vincent, Raja Sando and Baby Saroja went into oblivion. Why? "Because the heirs of these iconic stars either became poor or shifted their focus to other careers," said Sugeeth.
 
 Today, internet has made film-viewing affordable. One can watch a movie by buying a DVD for just Rs30. Sugeeth says many film archive centres in India possess rare copies of old Tamil films. For example, ‘Pavalakodi’, the oldest surviving Tamil film released in 1934 is with National Film Archives of India (NFAI) in Pune because it maintains the only print of the movie available today and one has to pay a fee of Rs2,500 for a single screening. "Why can’t NFAI digitise the reels and distribute them? Since the copyright for most of these movies have expired, that should not be a problem," he said.
 
 Between 1931 ( ) and 1940, at least 249 films were made in Tamil. Of them only 14 survive and only the NFAI has the prints of films like ‘Pavalakodi’ and ‘Sati Sulochana’ (1934). "It’s an irony that films that survived are not accessible to the common man," he said.
 
 The documentary has nine episodes. The first seven deal with the evolution of Tamil cinema and the last two talk about films that are not accessible to the common man. Sugeeth has also interviewed people like Prakash Magdum, the director of NFAI. "We have started assessing the vaults. We are now checking each and every reel in detail. We will get a clear picture only when the work gets over," said Magdum.
 
 Sugeeth wanted to know more about the fire that broke out in a nitrate vault of the NFAI in 2003, destroying many old reels of films. A statement from the Centre later said that the NFAI lost 607 films in about 5,000 reels in the fire. But there is no clarity on it so far.
 
 The film societies that emerged in the 1980s and 1990s also helped screen many art films which couldn’t have big commercial releases. "When these film societies started dying out, reels of art films like ‘Daham’ remained in their hands. Some distributors started digitising the films they had, but eventually stopped it due to online piracy," he said.
 
 For Sugeeth, making a documentary on a forgotten topic was challenging as he had to start from the scratch. But he is happy as the documentary got tremendous response during the screening.
 
 
