RAJKOT: This winter has been the most cruel for farmers pouring their milk into the dairies affiliated to Gujarat Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF), the apex body of milk cooperatives, in the state.

 Following massive overproduction and subdued demand, the farmers’ condition is no different than those reeling under the glut of potatoes, groundnut, tomatoes and cotton. 
 
 Kutch’s Sarhad Dairy and Rajkot Dairy, which are both members of GCMMF, have further cut procurement prices, adding to the farmers’ woes.
 
 Farmers are struggling with surplus milk problem, dairies have stopped to procure extra milk and farmers don’t get enough price, though experts termed it a temporary problem. 
 
 Sarhad Dairy has reduced procurement price to Rs 100 per kg fat in just one month. The dairy is currently paying Rs 570 per kg fat. Rajkot Dairy has also reduced the price by Rs 40 per kg fat in last one month and is currently paying Rs 540. 
 
 Sarhad Dairy chairman Valji Humbal said, “We are only following GCMMF’s steps in price reduction. On February 8, prices will be further cut, but we won’t reduce immediately. We will see how much we can pay. Otherwise, we have to reduce Rs 10 per kg fat more.” 
 
 The dairy procures 5 lakh litre per day (LLPD) from 50,000 farmers while   produces 10 LLPD. Rajkot Dairy procures 4.75 LLPD milk. 
 
 This year, GCMMF had received 22% more milk in terms of volume compared to last year. A month ago, GCMMF warned all its 17 milk producers unions not to procure extra milk. As a result, dairies across the state stopped registering new members. Rajkot Dairy has put one-day off in rotation every week as far as milk procurement is concerned in each of its 14 talukas. 
 
 Dhiru Gandhi, a milk producer from Rapar in Kutch, said “The dairy has already capped milk procurement and is now reducing the price of fat continuously. We have no option but to sell the milk to dairy because it is a perishable commodity and we can’t store it. Private players also exploit by giving us low prices.” 
 
 Though the problem of surplus milk crops up every winter, this time the situation is more acute because of the drastic fall in price of skimmed milk powder (SMP). The production cost of 1kg SMP is Rs 240 while the market price is Rs 150 to Rs 160, which is why private players have stopped buying milk.
 
 GCMMF managing director R S Sodhi said, “Surplus milk is a problem but we are paying more to farmers compared to last year. We have reduced a small amount but some dairies have reduced more than that. Milk comes in huge quantity and to restrict inflow they might have chosen more reduction. We expect demand to rise in summer.” 
 
 Dr B B Savalia, assistant research scientist of cattle breading farm at   (JAU), said “Milk production will come down by 30% in summer while demand will rise. Therefore, the present problem won’t escalate. It’s a temporary phenomenon.”
 
 
