CHENNAI: A 33-year-old sub-inspector committed suicide using a service revolver outside the Ayanavaram police station here around 1.45am on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as R Satish Kumar, a 2011-batch direct sub-inspector. He was a bachelor. 

 This incident happened three days after a 25-year-old police constable, Arunraj, 
 .
 
 Satish Kumar had been serving as a law and order sub-inspector at the Ayanavaram police since October 4, 2014. He had left a suicide note on his table at the police station stating that no one was responsible for his death. He had written the mobile numbers of his brother, Ganesh Kumar, and cousin, Radha, on the suicide note.
 
 Chennai city police commissioner A K Viswanathan, additional commissioner of police (North Chennai) H M Jayaram, joint commissioner of police T S Anbu and others visited the police station and conducted inquiries.
 
 During questioning, special sub-inspector Chiranjeevi, who was at Ayanavaram police station in the night, said Satish completed his duty at 8pm on Tuesday and returned to the police quarters in T P Chathiram. He said, “Satish came back to the police station at 1.40pm and told me that he wanted a service revolver, as he is stepping out for an inquiry.” 
 
 Chiranjeevi gave the key of a safe in which revolvers are kept. He entered it in the register. 
 
 Satish loaded the revolver, placed it on his forehead and attempted to end his life. Chiranjeevi screamed and told him, “Sir, don’t ever play with the weapon. It is loaded.”
 
 Chiranjeevi requested Satish to return the revolver and tried to snatch it from him. However, the sub-inspector threatened Chiranjeevi, two other police personnel and home guards at the police station pointing the revolver at them. 
 
 Satish ran out of the police station to the right side of the entrance and pulled the trigger after keeping the revolver on his head, above the right ear. The bullet pierced through his head killing him on the spot. He was taken to Medical College Hospital, where the doctors confirmed his death.
 
 Satish is survived by his parents, Rajaram and Ambika, brothers Ganesh Kumar and Selvakumar. His family lives at Melaiyur near Thiruvidaimaruthur in Thanjavur district. 
 
 He spoke to his brother over phone on Tuesday night. “There was no sign of any distress or frustration when he spoke to me. He was a bold person. He studied M Tech in Anna University. He always gave advice to people who went to him with a problem. Satish was very close to me and our cousin, Radha.” Ganesh Kumar said.
  
 Preethi Manohar, a counsellor and general manager of Human Resources of Sooriya Hospital in Vadapalani, said, “Many people are taking their lives in frustration when they fail to find a solution to their problems. This decision may have been taken in a fraction of second, but the stress has been accumulating for several years.” 
 
 
