MANGALURU: The   at Dr Shivaram Karanth Biological Park,  , is Asia’s first such planetarium, and the world’s 21st-most advanced one, which is all set for inauguration on March 1. However, there is a problem, as the seats installed at the planetarium are not comfortable for viewing.

 This came to light during the exclusive premier held for media persons on Saturday. The new facility boasts of advanced technology and has been built at a cost of Rs 36 crore, but doesn’t have the right-seating needed for a planetarium. It has a total seating capacity for 170 people.
 
 During the show, the front four rows on both sides of the aisle, which total up to 80 seats, cannot see the complete show, and have to lean back to get the whole picture. Usually, planetariums are provided with recliner seats, where one can view the entire dome without any hassles. However, in the new planetarium, those seated in the front rows can see only half of it. As a result of faulty seats, those who are seated in the first four rows, cannot enjoy the show.
 
 When pointed out about the loopholes, deputy commissioner   agreed that the planetarium has the wrong seats, which will be changed soon. “I have noticed this issue. The seats were designed as per the planetarium in Singapore. The seats don’t tilt fully, and I have asked the manufacturer to change them,” he told TOI.
 
 When asked whether the entire 170 seats need to replaced for comfortable viewing? Senthil maintained that he will look into the issue.
 
 A five-year maintenance contract has been awarded to a USA-based company, that is supplying the technologies for the planetarium. The civil works of the facilities are undertaken by city-based Roy Constructions.
 
 Rs 60 for entrance/ book online
 
 MLA J R Lobo spoke to the media after the premier. He said tickets for the planetarium have been fixed at Rs 60 for an adult, and Rs 25 for children. The same can be booked online through the bookmyshow app. There will be concessions for schools.
 
 He said every show will be of 25-minutes-each, with various themes. “There will be six shows every day . The show themes will change every month,” he said.
 
 The work for the planetarium commenced in 2008, with an initial budget of Rs 8 crore, which has now been increased to Rs 36 crore. It has highly-advanced features, including the 8K 3D Digistar projection system. “The planetarium will not only attract children but astronomy scientists/researchers. By starting this planetarium, it will make accessing information on space and astronomy more accessible to all interested in astronomy,” Lobo said.
 
 He added that they have a plan to introduce a Rs 100 ticket package from March 1. This ticket will give access to the planetarium, science centre, zoo, boating and other facilities in Pilikula.
 
 
