JAIPUR:   from several parts of Rajasthan voiced their fears about growing incidents of cow vigilantism, as they could no longer get rid of the unwanted bovines. 

 Farmers who turned up for a Jan Sunwai (public hearing) at the leader of opposition Rameshwar Dudi’s residence at   before the budget session of state assembly beginning on February 5 said their agony was aggravated by cow vigilantes.
 
 “We are unable to sell unwanted livestock due to fear unleashed by cow vigilantes. We are forced to abandon them but it creates further complications as the bovines eat up crops,” said Remtharam Meghwal, a farmer from Deedwana in Nagaur district. 
 
 “There are Goshalas (cow shelters) in each village which are now overcrowded and thousands of bovines are roaming around the village as there is no way to get rid of these animals,” added Mehgwal.
 
 After agriculture, animal husbandry is a major occupation of the people in Rajasthan. According to the latest animal survey (2012) Rajasthan accounted for 5.77 crore livestocks, the largest in the country. Farmers used to earn an extra income from sale of non-milching livestocks, but that has now come to a deadend after Modi government came to power, he elaborated.
 
 Bhawarlal Gorchia, a farmer from Nokha block in Bikaner district, said, “The ground nut farmers are a harassed lot as the government procures only 25 tonnes of the produce at the support price of Rs 4,450 per quintal. The farmers were forced to sell the remaining portion of their produce at throw-away prices of Rs 30-32 per kg in the open market.” 
 
 Some farmers complained that on one hand they were unable to avail remunerative price for their produce, on the other the input costs are going up due to high prices of diesel, GST on agriculture equipment, etc which has added to their problem.
 
 Rajasthan is a water deficit state. The state government has been encouraging farmers to adopt drip irrigation but he said the GST has come as a big dampener.   from Bikaner said the sprinkler system brought under GST is an anti-farmer retrograde step.
 
