Jhansi’s   and Mumbai’s  , who play the lead pair on TV show ' ', which is set in the late 1980s-early 1990s, feel that the romance of that era was far superior to what one finds today. The duo went click-click-click for BT, kissing the morning rays at the Old Lady’s Shoe inside Kamla Nehru Park, which is popular with kids and lovers in Mumbai. Excerpts from a conversation... 

 
 
 
 : Yes, I’ve begun to understand Naina’s psyche. I love the clothes she wears because they’re very comfortable; it doesn’t matter if they don’t follow the current fashion trends. On a personal level, people say that Aashi and Naina are similar, but they’re not. I’m career-driven while Naina is all heart.
 
 : Like my character Sameer, even I am a die-hard Salman Khan fan. Today, I can feel the dialogues I’m delivering on screen, so much so that I end up improvising on the spot. As for our attires, I used to feel stifled and stuffy in those high-neck tees and thick denims, but I was told that I have to feel comfortable in whatever I wear, because that will reflect on screen. Today, you could make me wear anything and I’ll be fine. Also, ours is a romance where we don’t even touch each other. The emotions are all in our eyes. So, while playing the part, I’ve also learnt to express myself without physically touching someone.
 
 
 
  I have never been in love, but I think romance aankhon se hi hota hai. Dedicating time for the ’90s style romance is tough, though it’s the kind of romance I want in my life. I can sing Chura Ke Dil Mera to my ladylove. I believe in love at first sight, but there is no time for it. That’s the prime problem of our generation. Also, now, I might not be able to romance someone physically on screen
 That era had innocent, beautiful romance. Earlier, I would feel that love has no meaning, looking at some relationships around me. I’ve begun to believe in love because of this show. Also, I have to look at Sameer (Randeep’s character) with so much love that today, I actually want someone like him in my life. I don’t want a 2018 guy, I want someone whose value system is set in the 1990s.
 
 
 
  Technology has its pros and cons. Our elders would await letters from their loved ones for days and weeks. Today, it’s all instant — messages, mails, calls. The charm of waiting to know what someone far away is feeling is lost. 
 
  I agree. In fact, I find it very charming when someone takes time out to write to someone. I really want my special someone to write heartfelt letters to me. It’s so romantic!
 
 
 
  It wasn’t. Soon after reaching Mumbai, I landed an ad film with Kareena Kapoor Back then, the local press in Jhansi had asked my parents if they were comfortable with me romancing on screen. My father’s reply was, ‘Ab woh kuein mein kooda hai toh sookha nahi lautega na?’ Since my parents are open-minded, I feel awkward about nothing.
 
 : It is awkward for me, though. My family is concerned about how things work here since I am the only one from my khandaan to become an actor. However, I’m at ease when I’m working with Randeep.
 
 
 
  The role required us to maintain distance, physically. At the outset, we didn’t speak much with each other and that helped our show’s track. As the story progressed, we became friends. When my character shifted to Delhi, away from his friends and ladylove, we shot at different locations. Without my usual cast members around me, I used to get really bored. However, irritation in my body language actually helped the track. 
 
  Over a period of time, we have become friends. Today, I can say that I will be there for him whenever he needs help. 
 
 
 
  Actually, people tease me more with Rishina Kandhari, who plays our teacher on screen. I’m also linked up with all my fraternity friends. So, when I went back home to Jhansi this time, I avoided taking pictures with my female friends and family members. Loose talk on social media affects me, especially if it’s a link-up with friends or worse, a relative. 
 
  Talk on social media doesn’t affect me so much, because I am used to being teased with boys. It started when I was in school. As long as people close to me know what’s going on, it doesn’t matter what others say.
 
 
 
 I can’t have such an easy romance (laughs). Thodi ladai, thoda struggle must be there to give me reason to meet my lover…
 
  (Smiling) I want something easy-going, because there’s enough struggle in our lives anyway. 
 
 
 
  The ratings do affect me, but I try not to show it.
 
  Ratings don’t affect me, because our team is like a family. We have elders to take care of these things.
 
