KUPPALLI (SHIVAMOGGA):   on Monday attributed Jnanpith recipient poet Kuvempu’s   to the inspiration he derived from the teachings of Swami Vivekananda, who promoted unity and social harmony.

 Shah was thrilled to see the beauty of the poet’s birthplace Kuppalli, 65km from Shivamogga. He went to the samadhi Kavishaila on the hillock, in the backdrop of the evergreen Sahyadri mountain range, and the poet-laureate’s house which has been designed and converted tastefully into a museum. “I am extremely glad to visit the
 
 place, and I salute the great poet who was inspired by the teachings of Swami Vivekananda,” he told reporters.
 
 Kavishaila is a monument made of megalithic rock and dedicated to Kuvempu. It is atop a small hill in Kuppalli. Arranged in a circular fashion, at the centre of this rock monument, is the place where Kuvempu was laid to rest. Shah said Kuvempu has not only contributed richly to develop Kannada literature, he was an inspiration to many. His two famous works ‘Ramayana Darshana’ and state anthem ‘Jai Bharatha jannaneya tanujathe’ is remembered by all, and I bow my head to the great poet,” he added. However, Shah likening Kuvempu to Swami Vivekananda did not go down well with several local groups, including the Komu Souharda Vedike and NSUI in Shivamogga and Theerthahalli. “When Shah is a strong propagator of Hindutva concept, Kuvempu explored Viswa Manava, urging people to shun caste and creed,” they claimed.
 
 ‘NO. 1 IN CORRUPTION’
 
 Theerthahalli: In a blistering attack on the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government, Amit Shah said that “Karnataka is No. 1 only in corruption”.
 
 At an arecanut growers’ convention here on Monday, Amit Shah stated that on Sunday, a retired Supreme Court judge had challenged Siddaramaiah to prove that Karnataka is No. 1 in all development sectors. “I am saying today that Karnataka is No. 1 only in corruption,” he said. Reigniting the debate on the Centre’s allocation to the state government, Shah stated that when UPA was in power, the 13th Finance Commission sanctioned Karnataka Rs 88,583 crore. But under the Narendra Modi regime, the 14th Finance Commission increased it to Rs 2,19,506 crore. The Centre released Rs 80,000 crore towards the developmental projects, including Namma Metro. But these facts are suppressed, he claimed.
 
 “The state government can be compared to a faulty transformer. Even if electricity is available, if the transformer is faulty, people don’t get power at home,” he said.
 
 Referring to the state government’s decision to confer religious minority tag to the Lingayat community, Shah urged the CM to read the writings of the poet-laureate Kuvempu. “Dear Siddaramaiah, please read Nadageethe written by Kuvempu. You are dividing society.”
 
 
