PATNA: Eyeing admission in engineering, medical and business institutions across the country, a large number of students, who appeared for Class X examinations recently, have started looking for either good   institutes or private tutors. Parents are equally busy in analysing coaching institutes, taking up online surveys and scrutinising past results to finalise the best institute for their wards.

 Ashutosh Kumar, a Class X student of  , has readied the list of all prominent coaching institutes of Patna. “I have only two years to make the right decision and achieve my goal. I have taken advice from my seniors and also visited some coaching centres personally.” he said.
 
 Shambhavi Singh, who aims to become a doctor, has appeared for entrance examinations in some private coaching institutes in the city. A Class X student of Notre Dame Academy, Shambhavi said, “I have to start the preparation early to tackle the pressure as I am aware of the vast syllabus of Intermediate.” 
 
 Not only the pupils, even their parents are also analysing the coaching centres on various parameters, such as quality and method of teaching, course materials, results, timing and the attention given to the students.
 
 Kamlesh Chaudhary, who is in search for a right institute for his son Shivam, said, “After the Class X exam, children have almost three-month time before their classes begin. It is the perfect time for them to prepare for the competitive examinations,” he said.
 
 “Selecting the right coaching centre is quite a tricky job. I have talked to some students already studying in coaching institutes to get their feedback,” said Prashant Shrivastava, who is keen to see his son passing the joint entrance examination (JEE).
 
 Some children, on the other hand, prefer home tutors.  , a Class X student of Dr G L Dutta DAV Public School at Transport Nagar, said, “One-on-one tutoring is better than spending time in coaching centres where the teachers don’t pay individual attention to students.” 
 
 
