When director   and actor   walked into the Bangalore Times office for a chat ahead of the release of their second film,  , their easy-going camaraderie was the first thing that one could notice. They are good friends, says Vijay, yet it has taken them seven years to collaborate again; something they are looking to remedy. Here are excerpts from our conversation with them:

 
 
 Vijay: Back then, Johnny was not mature and now he is. He has even upgraded from a service centre to the online space with Johnny.com.
 Preetham: People used to ask us frequently about working together again, especially on a sequel, considering that the characters were so well liked. But we believed that everything has its own time to fall in place, and that time is now. We always knew that we would do another film, but didn’t find the right script. Then we decided to do Johnny Johnny Yes Papa (JJYP) as a sequel, with Vijay doubling up as producer also.
 
 
 
 Preetham: It made sense because audiences loved the characters, the comedy, Vijay’s Kanglish, Rangayana Raghu’s getup as a lady and so much more. We decided to use the same characters and put them in today’s technology-driven world, even though they are not tech-savvy.
 
 
 
 Vijay: Preetham and I are good friends. What I like about him is that he isn’t selfish and there is no ego clash between us. We are also like-minded, which is good for our professional collaboration as well. The fact that we have done two films together is testimony to that.
 Preetham: And we are not going to stop with this film. Johnny will become a franchise with one film a year. I was the first director to tap into the comic in Vijay. Until then, he was only known as an action star. He has impeccable timing when it comes to comedy, which I noticed off screen. He is a very jovial person, constantly making people around him laugh, while also enjoying a good laugh. We tried it out in Johnny Mera Naam…, which worked, so we upped the humour with JJYP. You will see a different Vijay, who will have audiences rolling in their seats laughing.
 
 
 Vijay: I use a lot of laughter in my daily life, as I think it is a very important aspect of life. You cannot put a price to laughter. But when I am upset over something and someone comes over and makes me laugh, I can forget all my worries in that instance. This is perhaps why all of us love artistes like Charlie Chaplin and Mr Bean, and laugh at their antics, irrespective of how we feel at that moment. I believe that if you find pleasure in laughing and making others laugh, it fills you with positivity. I agree that it is difficult to make people laugh, but I like doing that.
 
 
 It was not at all difficult, considering that I had Vijay, Rangayana Raghu and Sadhu Kokila to work with. I only had to get the content right for them. To make a fun film, you need great actors, else it won’t work. Luckily, I had that department taken care of. For me, the challenge was only in writing a script that was funnier than the first film, with a very subtle message also conveyed through humour.
 
 
 Preetham: I would like to thank Ramya because her song, Padmavathi, is such a big craze even now. Back then, her combination with Vijay was new, so for JJYP also we wanted a fresh pairing, which Rachita brings in. At first, we thought we would remix the Oorigoble   song, but then we came up with the idea of Hosa Padmavathi, since she is the new Padmavathi in Johnny’s life.
 
 
 
 Preetham: I am doing a film with Ganesh and Vijay, which will take off in July. I am currently working on the script.
 Vijay: I am eagerly waiting to work with Ganesh, who is a close friend. We both rose to success around the same time; he became Golden Star and I, Duniya Vijay.
 But there was a period of struggle before that, which we want to show people. In the process, we also want to make people laugh. My immediate next, though, is Kushthi, in which I play a wrestler, for which I am training 4-5 hours a day. 
 
 
 
