VADODARA: Think about railway stations and the first image that comes to your mind is dull colours, walls strewn with tobacco spits and waste lying around. But the railway stations of Sanskarinagari and Anand will change your perception forever. 

 The   sports colourful look complete with sculptures and creative furniture. These artworks were dedicated to the city on Monday by the railway authorities and   that funded the project to celebrate its centenary year. The railway station has now become an exhibition centre housing some of the beautiful artworks. Also on display is are 3D paintings made on the walls and over-bridge in the railway station. “This is probably the first railway station in the country to sport 3-D paintings. It is refreshing change for the passengers,” said Sachin Kaluskar who curated the project. 
 
 From a mini train with steam coach to a crocodile and several landmarks of the city, the railway station premise exhibits range of artworks made out of waste. Also on display are paintings of a tea maker, a soldier bidding goodbye to his family and luggage. 
 
 If the staircases have been painted with theme of environment, even the sitting arrangements have been designed creatively. “The auto drivers stationed there say that many passengers are inquiring about the landmarks they see painted in the railway station,” Kaluskar added. 
 
 In Anand, three life size paintings of 30 feet by 10 feet each and another ten feet by 4 feet painting on themes of ‘Life on track’ and ‘Milk city Anand’ have been put up on walls of the station. “We are trying to beautify railway station and make it more attractive while also conveying a message to commuters. The life size paintings are of coolie/ porter, train ticket examiner (TTE) and a young girl student,” said divisional railway manager (DRM) of Vadodara railway division Amit Kumar Singh. 
 
 Another painting showing a train coming out of a milk can symbolises the flow and power of milk with a bridge that suggests how the railways provided the bridge to Amul to make its products reach the length and breadth of India. 
 
 “The paintings have been created using high quality exterior colours. We had approached   who had inspired us to do the project,” said Kaluskar.
 
 The paintings have been prepared by Vadodara-based artists including Bhavsinh Bambhaniya, Bhavesh Shah and two students of M S University’s Faculty of Fine Arts. 
 
 
