NEW DELHI: Taking a   against   for   with   to allow   in the national capital, the Centre has told the Supreme Court that it has decided to immediately   municipal and DDA officials in charge of areas where unauthorised structures come up. 

 Noting that current procedures are too cumbersome and erring officials get away without any punishment, the apex court had asked the Centre to take immediate action against them to send a clear message to all that any complicity would not go unpunished.
 
 “Just assure us that you will suspend such officer. This is the least which you can do. Not suspending the officer would send a wrong message to the general public that he was not being suspended despite being corrupt,” the court had told the Centre. 
 
 Agreeing with the SC’s suggestion, the Centre has informed the court that the official concerned would be put under suspension if there is prima facie case against him. “Whenever disciplinary proceedings are contemplated for violations of the Master Plan and unified building bye-laws besides other illegal construction activities, a view on suspending the official will be taken under the relevant Rules,” additional solicitor general A N S Nadkarni told the court.
 
 The Centre has also prepared a comprehensive action plan to book erring officials of the DDA and municipal bodies under Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Corruption Act for abetting past and future illegal constructions in Delhi.
 
 As per the plan, municipal and DDA official would be presumed to be guilty of connivance in case of any unauthorised construction in the area under their jurisdiction and they would be issued show-cause notice on why they should not be prosecuted. FIR would be lodged against the officials if their reply is not found satisfactory. 
 
 “In case any illegal construction activity is detected by the Special Task Force(STF), it will be presumed that such activity has been or was undertaken in connivance with the officer responsible for the area concerned as mentioned in the grid. The STF shall direct the disciplinary authority to initiate proceedings against the officer and also issue show cause notice, ” the action plan said.
 
 The government has also prepared a panel of officers from different municipal bodies and entrusted them with the task of monitoring all construction activities in their jurisdictional area. “The officials shall be held accountable for all future irregular and unauthorised construction or violation of Master Plan 2021, Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and the building by-laws,” the plan said.
 
 
