NAGPUR: With BJP government at the Centre planning to issue final notification exempting building and construction projects up to 50,000 sqmtrs from environment clearance (EC) requirement, NGOs have opposed the move. They have moved the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) saying it will benefit builders under the garb of providing housing to urban poor.

 MoEFCC issued a draft notification on March 13, 2018, to ease norms for building and construction projects. The ministry sought comments from people in 60 days before issuing final rules. The notification proposes to amend the EIA Notification, 2006, by increasing the exemption threshold from 20,000 sqmtrs (2.15 lakh sqft) to 50,000 sqmtrs (5.38 lakh sqft), which means projects less than that will not require any prior EC.
 
 MoEFCC had sought comments from people and NGOs before making it final. The last date to submit comments is May 12. EIA Resource & Response Centre (ERC), a body analyzing impact of development activities on environment, in its submission demanded that the notification be withdrawn.
 
 “The new norm will pave way for big projects of builders.. under the garb of providing housing to urban poor by 2022 as proposed by the government,” said Pushp Jain, chief analyst of ERC. He added it was beyond the scope of parent legislation and violated several judicial orders. “Repeated attempts were made by real estate lobby to take building and construction activity out of purview of EC process,” he said.
 
 Once final, such projects will have to comply with prescribed environmental conditions through a ‘self declaration form’ while applying for building and construction permission from local authority.
 
 Jain said according to ministry of urban development (MoUD) specification size of a dwelling unit for urban poor is 27-30 sqmtrs. The built-up area of less than 20,000 sqmt was already out of the purview of the EIA Notification and therefore an approximate number of 700 dwelling units could have been made within the limit of 20,000 sqmt itself at a particular site. “Therefore, increasing exemption limit to 50,000 sqmtrs for providing housing to urban poor was not needed,” Jain said.
 
 ERC also questioned how removal of EC will improve environment through greater objectivity and transparency, as mentioned in the draft. “There are about two dozen other statutory approvals required from various state and central agencies for commencement of construction. Why is there problem with EC alone,” asks Jain.
 
 Analyst Kankana Das of Legal Initiative for Forest & Environment (LIFE), Delhi, says local authorities have been asked to monitor compliance of environmental conditions but local bodies do not have the expertise. “This draft, if implemented, will only benefit the builders, as they will get unrestricted leverage to capture land and water bodies to convert them into concrete buildings,” Das submitted.
 
 Further, she said, violations by any proponent which were earlier punishable under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, will not remain effective any more, if the draft was notified.
 
 Das said it was clear that local authorities or urban local bodies (ULBs) were governed by specific statutes. The draft notification is silent on issue of “control and supervision” of the ministry over ULBs.
 
 Jain submitted that   ( ), Delhi, on December 8, 2017, had ruled that the laudable objective of “housing for all” should not be used to perpetuate commercial profitability and business concerns. “The present draft seeks to achieve the same purpose to perpetuate all commercial projects,” he said.
 
 
