SALEM: Tension prevailed for a while after a few cadres of Tamilaga Valvurimai Katchi ( ) climbed atop a radio mast in Dharmapuri town on Saturday, demanding the release of their party president T Velmurugan, who was arrested at Tuticorin airport on Friday when he attempted to meet and console the family members of those who were killed in the police firing.

 Velmurugan was, meanwhile, taken to the Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai.
 
 TVK cadres led by the party state deputy general secretary T C Thavamani, state women’s wing secretary Jayalakshmi Balu and district president   assembled in front of the   (AIR) office and raised slogans against the state government and the police department.
 
 Suddenly, a few of them barged inside the AIR office premises and climbed atop the 150-ft radio mast, despite the tight police security. And when they got down after an hour’s protest, the police detained and lodged them in a marriage hall. All the protesters were released in the evening.
 
 In another instance, more than 150 TVK cadres were detained at Ammapet when they attempted to stage a road roko on Salem-Chennai National Highway. They raised slogans against the police department and urged the officials to release Velmurugan at the earliest. The protesters were lodged in a marriage hall at Ammapet and later released in the evening.
 
 Meanwhile, political leaders and social activists urged the state government to release Velmurugan. Talking to TOI, anti-nuclear activist S P Udayakumar said after the arrest Velmurugan was lodged in a dilapidated hall without power, water and toilet. 
 
 “Velmurugan told me this when I contacted him on Friday evening,” he said.
 
 The police, he said, did not allow party leaders, advocates, friends and media persons to meet Velmurugan and nine other people, who were detained with him. According to him, the police had resorted to mild lathi-charge when people attempted to approach the hall.
 
 “As all these amount to gross human rights violations, I have sent a letter to the state director general of police, T K Rajendran, asking him to treat Velmurugan and others with dignity and utmost care. I will also write to both the   and the State Human Rights Commission in this regard,” Udayakumar said wondering why Velmurugan was denied permission to enter Tuticorin while all the political leaders were doing so.
 
 Jayalakshmi Balu said the state government was taking revenge against Velmurugan. “They arrested him for damaging Villupuram toll plaza, which is an old case, and not in connection with the Tuticorin protest,” the state women’s wing secretary of TVK said.
 
 CPM state secretary K Balakrishnan also wondered why a few leaders, including Velmurugan, were arrested and remanded when most others were released on the same evening. The Salem city police had arrested a few cadres of Democratic Youth Federation of India for staging protest and remanded them on Friday.
 
  Balakrishnan urged the state government to release them immediately.
 
 
