  : The five-decade old City Bus Terminus ( ) at  , which has been renovated, is waiting for inauguration even as the   (NWKRTC) hopes that it will be officially thrown open to public once the new transport minister assumes office. 

 
 Whenever a new public project is proposed in Hubballi-Dharwad, people of twin cities cite the examples of CBT and Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS), which have become symbols of slow moving projects.
 
 The renovation work of the CBT, which is the heart of the transport system in the city, was taken up amidst many roadblocks five years ago, is complete now. NWKRTC chairman,  , told TOI that major works on the five-storeyed building have been completed. "However, finishing works are now under way and will be completed soon. The CBT will be inaugurated in about 15-20 days after the new transport minister assumes charge," he said.
 
 The chairman said all the clearances have been obtained for the project. "More than 1,000 buses are expected to provide intra-city service as well as inter-city services between Hubballi-Dharwad. The project has been completed at a cost of Rs 17 crore," he said.
 
  When TOI conducted a reality check at the work spot, the bus services were already started before the inauguration. Buses in many routes, including Sai Sagar, Taj Nagar, Gokul, Ravi Nagar, Anand Nagar, Siddharoodha Mutt, RGS, Vishveshwar Nagar, Patrakarta Nagar, Devang Pet, Gopanakoppa and other locations, were started. The public toilet was also kept open for commuters. However, there was huge congestion and traffic jam due to the passing of buses and other vehicles, including auto rickshaws. Narrow roads also added to the traffic woes. 
 
  The works at the entrance of the building were still pending. NWKRTC sources said that while the basement was meant for parking, the five floors will be used for offices and commercial establishments. 
 
 "The building should have been completed by now, but it is delayed for over five years. Delaying the inauguration further is uncalled for. The NWKRTC should see that it is inaugurated at the earliest," said Prakash Mulimani, a food grain merchant.
 
 
