ZIRAKPUR: If the long-standing traffic and parking problems on the   had not made the arterial path dangerous enough for two-wheelers, now the carpet of tiles has become slippery.

 This road from Metro Supermarket on the national highway to Maya Garden Phase-1 is unsafe even for the pedestrians, who break a hip or a knee after skidding. This common connecting vein to secondary urban roads is paved with grey interlocking tiles on the main stretch, followed by a combination of red and grey tiles on the other sections, and both have caused numerous accidents. “The spot outside Domino’s pizza shop before the main showrooms is an infamous slippery spot, since at least 8-to-10 two-wheeler riders skid there each day,” said Karthik Mehra, a nearby resident.
 
 The danger level shoots up significantly on the days water accumulates on the road after rain or a sewage spill. Kunal Dhawan (32) of nearby Nirmal Chhaya Towers, who was in one of these accidents, said: “On a Sunday morning almost five weeks ago, I was on a   scooter on the road near Domino’s when I slipped and hurt my left knee and calf severely. There was no water or gravel on the surface that day and I was going at about 25 kilometres an hour. The flesh wounds have healed but I require daily sessions of physiotherapy. The pain is terrible.”
 
 He is glad that it happened on a Sunday morning when there wasn't much traffic on the otherwise choked road. He says: “I was also lucky that there was no vehicle behind me, else I could have died.” Another nearby resident,   (29), said: “I have been driving an Activa for long but I still don’t know how I slipped on this road two months ago around 6.30pm on my way home from work. The traffic was bumper-to-bumper when I skidded while taking a turn and hit my right leg. Luckily, the cars behind didn’t run me over.”
 
 The high concentration of roadside food vendors has also congested this route. “The tiles on the main road are extremely slippery and have lost the necessary friction. The roadside vendors cause traffic jams and force two-wheeler riders to apply sudden brakes to avoid crashing into other vehicles. Loose gravel at certain points such as the Lohgarh Road is another issue,” said  , a nearby resident.
 
 The problem has remained for years, yet the municipal corporation or Dera Bassi legislator   has initiated no formal redress mechanism. “These kind of road tiles are meant for internal roads and not main routes,” Nirmal Chhaya Towers resident welfare association (RWA) president   said.
 
 
