LUDHIANA: Aiming to fill the coffers of the Ludhiana municipal corporation, the authorities are planning to hire a private agency for recovery of the pending tax and other dues from city residents.

 Though the proposal will be put up in new  , the officials have meanwhile asked some of the private firms to send their proposals and detail reports to the department. The officials claimed they even cross checked it with other corporations of the state and even they are passing through financial constraints due to poor recovery and restricted income sources.
 
 The recovery of the pending dues has always remained a tough task for   and officials recover the dues only in the last three months when they have to meet their targets. Even last year, the state government had fixed Rs 100 crore target in property tax and water supply and sewerage charges collection, but officials have showed helplessness in meeting the huge target. The MC has already asked the government to reduce this target as this is unachievable.
 
 Requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that last year they remained occupied with poll duties, verification of blue card holders, pension scheme forms and correction in the voters list due to which they could not concentrate on the recovery drives. He also blamed the residents, saying that people do not clear their dues unless approached a number or when they fear stringent action.
 
 Confirming the move, MC commissioner   said, “We are planning to hire some agency which could conduct the recovery drives on our behalf because we are short of recovery staff. Moreover, the available officials are appointed on other development works as well. All these things affect the recovery throughout the year.”
 
 He said they would put up the proposal in the MC House for approval, if they found the proposal of any company profitable.
 
 Notably, despite being the richest civic body of the state, the financial constraints have remained a major problem for the department. Due to financial crisis, the department also faced problems in providing civic amenities to the residents and disbursing salaries to its employees on time.
 
 984 file property tax returns on Saturday
 
 Though MC offices remained open on Saturday, the recovery of property tax is moving at a snail’s pace. The department received Rs 18.74 lakh from the property tax returns from all four zones on Saturday and total 984 returns were filed by the residents.
 
 
