GURUGRAM:   on Tuesday sealed four industrial properties in   and 11 shops in   for non-payment of property taxes. Additionally, a drive was also conducted on   where a banquet hall was sealed. 

 MCG officials said all these property owners were issued notices and given enough amount of time to clear dues.
 
 “Continuing our efforts to recover the pending tax amounts from property owners across categories such as residential, commercial and residential, we carried out these sealing drives. The owners can either clear their taxes or else their properties will go to auction,” said an MCG official.
 
 MCG has been quite aggressive on the sealing drives and more than 100 properties have been either sealed or issued notices for non-payment of property taxes in all its zones.
 
 Moreover, there has been a special   collection drive for all the private banquet halls across the municipal limits of Gurgaon. 
 
 The civic body had also carried out a fire audit that revealed that 62 private banquet halls in the city were operating without a fire clearance. 
 
 According to MCG officials, in all there are 76 such banquet halls in all the four zones, which have pending property taxes on them. Of this 76, some 43 banquet halls have around Rs 9.4 crore dues leaving the rest with around Rs 17 lakh tax outstanding.
 
 “Some of these properties have not paid taxes for years altogether. Notices have been issued to all to clear their dues within a month’s time failing which they will be sealed and ultimately auctioned,” said another MCG official.
 
 Following the sealing and issuance of notices, MCG has also scheduled its next auction on March 15, where 89 properties will be auctioned across the city for non-payment of property taxes. A similar auction was conducted earlier in December last year.
 
 On February 11, a fire incident was reported from a restaurant’s kitchen in   mall. However, in the process to control the blaze, the fire officials detected a major loophole in the mall as the side lane, meant to be reserved for fire tenders and where the hydraulic lift was placed, was jam packed with parked vehicles. 
 
 
