Five-year-old Aahan* would constantly ask his mom about a photograph of a little girl displayed in the family’s television cabinet. Finally, his mother,  , 34, sat him down and explained, “She is your sister and she lives in America.”

 
 In 2008, four years before   was born, Trupti served as a surrogate for a Jewish couple from New York. At the time, the young family was struggling to make ends meet. Trupti, who had finished her BCom and one year of a law degree, was a stay-at-home mom to her three-year-old daughter; her husband was making just Rs 3,500 manufacturing loudspeakers and their rent was Rs 1,200.
 
 That’s when Trupti met a friend, who had served as a surrogate and used the money to buy a house. Keen to have a home of her own, she discussed the option with her husband, parents and in-laws, who were all supportive. “My mother said, ‘The money will come and go but the couple’s blessings will last a lifetime’.” 
 
 Once she made up her mind, it was easy to set the ball rolling because Trupti lives in Gujarat’s Karamsad municipality, which is just 10km from Dr Nayana Patel’s famous   in Anand that specialises in infertility. Once famous for spurring the milk revolution, Anand is now identified as the world’s surrogacy capital.
 
 Like most surrogates, Trupti empathised deeply with the childless couple, which is why she didn’t hesitate to hand over the child. “The woman was 52 years old,” recalls Trupti. “She first hugged me and cried copiously and from that I could tell how much she wanted a child. I could become a mother whenever I wanted but she couldn’t.” The American couple named the child Zara* and flew back with her when she was about 17 days old. 
 
 Today,   is nine and Trupti stays in touch with her over the phone and email. The families exchange birthday cards and gifts and Zara’s parents have always told her that she has two mothers. In 2011, when the family came to India to get their younger son — also born through a surrogate — they paid for Trupti to fly to Mumbai and spend three days with Zara. “I got to brush her hair and do all the little things I’d wanted to do,” says Trupti.
 
 Trupti was promised Rs 2.5 lakh but was paid an additional Rs 1.17 lakh by the grateful couple. She now owns a row house with a terrace in Karamsad, works at   as a surrogate coordinator. Her special name for Zara is ‘Angel’. “She is my angel because after she was born, my entire life changed for the better,” she says. 
 
 
 
 
