Nagpur: The earth belongs more to insects, microorganisms and others than the human beings who were the last to arrive. However, the humans assumed themselves to be of utmost importance as they are the only ones with a brain. But they became greedy and used brain to get maximum comforts which led to destruction of mother nature, said Nitin Dongarwar, associate professor at Nagpur University’s department of botany, on Thursday.

 He was delivering a lecture on ‘Forest: A vanishing wealth’, organized by the department of environmental science of Sevadal Mahila Mahavidyalaya. The meet was also part of creating awareness about environment programmes that the department conducts throughout the year. 
 
 Dongarwar said at present India has around 24% forest cover which should ideally be 30%. “The forest provides us aesthetic, recreational, economic, historic, cultural and religious value. We eat, breathe and wear forest. Nonetheless, one should understand that over-commercialization and destruction of forests do no good. Forests are like lungs of the world and conservation alone could contain climatic changes that have assumed alarming proportions,” he added. 
 
 He spoke at length about topics of hotspots and the hottest hot spots around the world and India, and presented his case study on critically endangered plants. “India is lucky to have the western ghats and Indo-Burma region as they are the hottest hot spots in our country. Such spots are very few in the world,” he said. 
 
 Dongarwar said if the western ghats are allowed to be cut off for developmental or monetary purposes at any given time, then India will cease to receive water. Existence of western ghats is important as they prevent clouds from going northwards, he added.
 
 He called for increasing the number of sanctuaries, enhancing afforestation and creating awareness about mother nature to save the flora and fauna. “We are here because forests are here. If the forests vanish, we will follow suit,” he said.
 
 Pravin Meshram, head of the environmental science department, and faculty members were present.
 
 
