Earlier this month, Amit Vipat and his friends headed to a small village in Nagar district. Reaching there in the evening, they set up camp to enjoy a   night under the stars. But not before they enjoyed a meal of fresh hurda made in the farm that they were staying at. In fact, this was the purpose of their trip — to spend a weekend camping while enjoying fresh, seasonal hurda (or jowar), harvested and cooked the rustic way. 

  “A hurda party is more fun when you go to a typical rural area rather than the outskirts of the city. The peace is unmatched and you get to sleep under the stars whose visibility is way better in these areas,” says the finance professional. Like him, many city dwellers answer the call of the jowar fields during winter, the harvest season for the crop. And farmers are happy to host anyone who wants to taste coal roasted jowar, and in the process, make a weekend trip out of it.   started off as small gatherings at farms, to feast on dishes made from the freshly harvested crop. 
 
  After turning into parties lasting a day or more, they are now weekend getaways with activities like bullock cart riding, vegetable picking and most recently, camping, to indulge in.“People, especially youngsters, are clubbing hurda parties with camping over the weekend. They arrive at dusk and start with tea and hurda, accompanied by roasted sweet corn, groundnut chutney, godi shev, etc, and then proceed to camp,” shares Onkar Kulkarni, the owner of   near Hinjewadi, that hosts hurda party groups. Campers who usually chose to barbecue while they camp, choose hurda during this season, especially since the delicacy is seasonal. Mangesh Bandishte who works in a BPO, decided to go to a farm with his friends on cycles. “We insisted on harvesting and roasting the hurda ourselves there. We even went for a swim in a river nearby. It was a one-of-a-kind experience,” he shares.Besides being an escape from the bustle of the city, hurda parties against the green backdrop of the fields, are also an opportunity to experience a slice of the farm life.
 
  
  Form ploughing fields to plucking fresh vegetables, there are plenty of activities that one can indulge in. “We also have activities like bullock cart rides during the day, to offer a rural feel,” says Soumitra Mundada, who hosts such parties at his agro tourism resort Mundadaji ki Wadi, in Pirangut. He says that these parties are opportunities for people to come out of their urban jungles and surround themselves with nature. “During the day, people indulge in outdoor games, by evening they have a hurda feast and at night, they have campfires,” Soumitra adds. For businessman Nikhil Shah, hurda parties are also about connecting with  . “We are so caught up with the city life, that we never bother about where our food comes from. We go on these trips every year and make it a point to play some traditional games like   or Lagori. It’s a welcome change from your gadgets.”
 
  All these reasons make hurda parties a perfect getaway from the city, whether with family or friends. “This is a great way to catch up with your friends. When we go for such parties, we even switch off our phones and make the most of the activities on offer there,” says working professional Ram Vilas Kabra. For Eshan Sarpotdar, who works in digital marketing, these parties when clubbed with camping have their own charm. “It gives you an opportunity to be involved with nature. Having to sleep in a sleeping bag and stay in tents is a delightful experience. The cherry on top is getting to munch on fresh harvest, which is nutritionally rich as well,” he shares.
  
 
