CHENNAI: When M Ramesh studied sound engineering in 1999, he was one among 14 students at MGR Government Film and TV Institute in Chennai who had signed up for the course. Today, there are numerous government-run and private institutions that have included audio engineering and sound design as part of their curriculum, and the scope for these specialisations has increased manifold. And yet, there is a need for “comprehensive training and application” says this sound engineer who works with popular composer Harris Jayaraj.

 “In most of these institutions, the courses have gotten shorter but their prospect in the industry has only increased. And that is why it is important for students to take personal initiative to make a mark in a field that has become highly competitive today. One way to do this would be for sound engineers to also learn fundamentals of music. This is extremely crucial and makes you more creative when you are working on a film or even live sound. These are places that require you to think quickly and spontaneously,” he says.
 
 From a time when sound engineers were restricted to a few dubbing and recording studios, radio and TV channels, today aspirants have a whole gamut of areas to look forward – they can become mixing engineers, studio engineers, broadcast engineers who manage talk shows, cookery shows and interviews for TV channels and work on web series. The advent of technological advancements such as Dolby and 5.1 surround sound have also pushed institutes to fine-tune their courses further and curate new ones.
 
 At A R Rahman’s K M College of Music and Technology, audio engineering has been one of the founding courses. And with every batch, the takers are only increasing, says Jyoti Nair, head of preparatory department, under which Electronic Music Production and Audio Engineering falls. “One of the reasons why it’s becoming popular among young people is because they get to handle technology in such a way that it gives them many results at once. And especially while making music, there is an increasing aspiration for youngsters to know every aspect related to it, so that they can singlehandedly create the sound they want,” she adds.
 
 At the end of the day, the only prerequisite is to have a ear for good sound, say industry veterans. “What also helps with practical application is a basic knowledge of mathematics and physics that come handy when you are working with sophisticated technology, fixing voice frequencies, etc. The best way to go about it would be to finish a comprehensive course, do an internship to get practical experience in the industry and then set out to choose the workplace and specialisation best suited to you,” says popular sound engineer Suresh Perumal who has an industry experience of 10 years across different languages.
 
 
