Chennai: No longer are skills sets the only criterion for companies to pick up talent. Keen on hiring employees based on culture fitment and to curb high attrition rate, corporates now take to psychometric tests in order to assess the ability, culture fitment and hence the retention of a potential employee.  Such tests are used to select managerial and sales professional with experience level up to 20 years. Krishnandu Ray, manager - Talent Acquisition, Berger Paints started using psychometric tests during recruitment to curb attrition rate.  “Managers, especially, are assessed using a specific ‘managerial potential test’, which includes questions that assess the job and culture fitment. Now, the quality of hires is good, their interpersonal and organisational skills are better and the retention rate, higher,” he said.  Through the assessments, while positive traits such as ability to fit with the organisational goals, empathy and aggression are gauged, negative traits such as likelihood of the employee quitting are also assessed. Platforms add that questions are well-disguised so that candidates don’t have the scope to give answer that would ideally suit the situation, but elicit an intuitive response. This helps assess the original behavioural traits of the potential hire. Mettl, which provides a platform for assessments to corporates has seen a 100% increase in the number of companies approaching them for psychometric tests.”  Over 18 months ago, in every five companies, close to 2 would agree and now the number has doubled. Even as the hit rate is higher now, in my estimate, less than 25% of the companies are actually taking up psychometric tests and hence there is market for platforms offering tests. Increased competition and high attrition rates has made such examination mainstream. Questions can assess beyond just technical prowess of the employee,” said Ketan Kapoor, co-founder, Mettl. While some employers make psychometric tests mandatory, others see such tests as the discerning factor to pick candidates beyond the first level of screening. “For senior hires, besides credentials and initial selection, there was always a lacuna while assessing the cultural fitment. We used to go with gut-based choices and now that there is a data-backed approach to behavioural traits This helps us take better notice of the possible red flags on where the employee might struggle. While it is not fool proof, indicative inputs act as a supplement for better hire quality,” said Anil Kumar Sinha, CHRO, Magicbricks.