Chennai: “You call it chaos, we call it family” goes a famous saying. In January Nikita Srivastava, found this come true when siblings, cousins and extended family took a trip to Dubai to celebrate her father’s 50th birthday. “12 of us took a trip to spend quality family time and celebrate my dad’s birthday rather than just a conventional gathering at home,” she said. While most millennials like to travel by themselves, or prefer to travel in rather small groups, a section of the population is reviving the trend of family vacations by celebrating milestones birthdays or anniversaries at different destinations making it an exotic affair. While travel companies see group bookings coming in for anywhere between 6-20 people, it is affordable airfares that contribute to the growth in the segment, they say. Destination travel is thus seen to be growing at 50% CAGR. Most trips are planned in advance, and thus it turns out to economical as well, say travellers. Yash Nigam, a banker from Mumbai celebrated their parents’ anniversary in Andaman. “My siblings, parents and I live in different cities and instead of celebrating the anniversary in our hometown, Lucknow, we chose to take a trip to make it memorable,” he said. “Most travellers are looking to bond with their distant family members and what better an occasion to being them together. Domestic destinations such as Goa, Kerala and international spots like Dubai and Srilanka are in demand. Trips are no longer just about exploring a new place, it is getting a newer dimension — bonding,” said Balu Ramachandran, vice head, air & distribution, Cleartrip.  Officials at curated tour operator Goomo say destinations closer to home in Asia are preferred to long-haul trips in Europe or the US. “Busy lives and affordability are pushing people to take shorter, nearby trips to places like Sri Lanka or Dubai. We get bulk bookings of 12-15 members for such destinations, a trend which has picked up in the last one year,”said Sonia Mehta, chief business officer, Goomo.