MUMBAI: Until some years ago, the Mumbai police were inundated with complaints from individuals losing money to scam emails from overseas offering a big inheritance or a lottery, after the payment of a small fee. Once the receiver made the payment, the fraudster would either invent ruses to knock out more money or simply disappear. The number of victims of these cons, better known as Nigerian 419 scams, is on the decline in Mumbai. The 419 emails have been replaced by   or targeted attacks on individuals or businesses, say experts.

 “Nigerian 419 scams are on the decline and one of the reasons could be growing awareness among the people,” says joint commissioner of police, crime,  . ‘419’ refers to the section of the Nigerian Criminal Code dealing with fraud and penalties. “Just like internet users, cyber fraudsters too have grown more tech savvy. They are aware that people don’t fall for Nigerian 419 scams anymore. So they have graduated to spear phishing attacks, which are more personal. This is an email spoofing attack targeting a specific business or individual, seeking unauthorised access to information. For instance, a business engaged in sale of consumer durables could be sent an email with an attachment on prospective customers. The target would naturally be interested and may click on the attachment. Once he does that, his computer gets infected and can be monitored for financial gains," says Altaf Halde, global head for a cybersecurity consulting firm,  .
 
 “A Nigerian 419 scam involves sending mass emails to hundreds of people where a few of them would respond. But in a spear phishing attack, the chances of success is far higher for a fraudster,” adds Halde.
 
 Spear phishers research on the target and may look through his/her social media accounts before sending an email. “The fraudster studies how a professional email is written and uses similar language. As most people check emails on their phones now, they wouldn’t be able to immediately distinguish if a particular mail (and attachment) is a scam or is a genuine professional email,” says  , managing director of the consultancy, Alvarez & Marsal.
 
