COIMBATORE: The rural police on Thursday arrested the former president of   town panchayat,  , from Chennai for his involvement in the illegal   manufacturing unit case.

 During his tenure as the president of the town panchayat, Murugesan, a DMK man, rendered help to the gutka unit at Kannampalayam near Sulur, police sources said. “He supported the illegal activities and used to receive Rs 50,000 every month from the unit owner,  ,” a police officer said.
 
 Police had arrested Murugesan along with six DMK men on May 1 for obstructing police raid at the unit. The men, who were remanded in judicial custody, had come out of the Coimbatore Central Prison a few days ago after securing bail. Court had ordered them to appear at the Sulur police station every day. 
 
 “However, Murugesan failed to appear at the police station in the last three days. He filed a petition before the judicial magistrate cum munsif court at Sulur to relax the conditions. But the court dismissed the petition. He filed another petition before the Madras high court, seeking anticipatory bail. But the petition was dismissed on Thursday,” the officer told TOI.
 
 “Murugesan was planning to admit in a hospital to evade arrest. But, a special team traced his location and arrested him from Mogappair in Chennai. He was booked under section 120 b (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and will be produced before the judicial magistrate cum munsif court at Sulur on Friday,” the officer said.
 
 Manager of the gutka unit   had told police that Murugesan helped them to buy the abandoned textile mill, which was converted to the unit. “Whenever unit owner Amit Jain visited Coimbatore, Murugesan used to meet him and receive money. He also used to get Rs 50,000 a month from the unit. During his tenure (2011 -2016), he had given drinking water connection to the unit illegally,” the officer added.
 
 Preliminary investigation revealed that several DMK leaders obtained money from the unit owner, police sources said.
 
 
