PATNA: An unseemly scene created by the   legislators during the inaugural session of 6th Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA)   conference here on Saturday invited sharp reaction from Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan. 

 “It is not the Bihar Vidhan Sabha conference, but of the CPA. If you are not interested, you can go out. We have come here as your guests. Treat us as your guests,” she said as the RJD legislators participating in the conference made vociferous protests against deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi for mentioning in his deliberation that “four former CMs in the country are behind the bars” on account of their involvement in corrupt practices.
 
 As the RJD protests did not subside, Mahajan, who is also the CPA India Region chairperson, rushed to the lectern and visibly chided RJD legislators for creating the noisy scene. 
 
 Curiously, state assembly Speaker  , in his welcome address, had spoken volubly about the hospitality and also pleaded that if the invitee guests had discerned any error, they should take it as “not deliberate”.
 
 Although SuMo had not taken any name, the RJD legislators were quick to read the implied reference to RJD chief and former CM Lalu Prasad, who is serving jail term in the fodder scam cases. SuMo enjoys the reputation of being inveterate anti-Lalu campaigner for the corruption charges against him.
 
 In the context of the   order on Friday that parliamentarians and legislators should also disclose their sources of income that they mention in the affidavits filed with the nomination papers, SuMo said the legislators should come clean with regard to their income. “Four former CMs in the country are behind the bars for their involvement in corrupt practices,” Modi said while addressing the delegates and other invitees present at the conference.
 
 RJD legislators, led by state party president Ram Chandra Purbey, along with former MLC Tanveer Hassan, were up on their feet and sought at their top voice retraction of the remarks made by SuMo. They also shouted unsavoury slogans against him.
 
 While the invitee guests, along with CM Nitish Kumar, were visibly embarrassed, assembly Speaker Choudhary requested the RJD men to calm down, but to no avail. The unseemly scene continued during the early part of the speech of the CPA executive committee chairperson   M Lifaka. Soon, many of the RJD legislators walked out of the conference.
 
 Later, CM Nitish tried to paper over the incident by pointing out that Bihari habits have been gradually changing for the better. Lok Sabha Speaker Mahajan described Nitish as “mature” and SuMo as a “man of struggle”. 
 
 
