BENGALURU: All political parties have strategies. Some bet on anti-corruption rhetoric, some on development, but almost none can ignore caste and community politics. But will first-time voters, mostly new millennials, toe the line?

 According to the Election Commission, there are over 12.8 lakh first-time voters eligible to exercise their franchise on May 12 — 34% of them are in Bengaluru district — but neither political parties nor experts are able to conclusively predict anything about their behaviour. While the number itself appears small, making up for just 2.5% of the electorate, political observers say how they vote would be an indication to how elections in the future could be fought.
 
 
 With no reference point about their leanings, political parties are clueless about how to woo them, but they aren’t short of assumptions. “We think Prime Minister Narendra Modi has a great impact on the nation’s youth and we are confident his message has reached the youngsters. We are confident they will support us,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 The Congress, too, has its own assumptions about how the young would vote, and its leaders argue that Karnataka is an example of how successful careers can be built with the support of the right government and how there is more than just “sloganeering” that is needed to propel the country forward.
 
 Political analyst Sandeep Shastri, however, says: “I do not see the new voters behaving any differently from the existing ones. Analysis of the 2014 elections shows there is no significant difference from how these people vote. So, I am not sure if they will change the way things are.”
 
 Finding reasons for his observations — based on data from past elections — may not be too difficult. Multiple people TOI spoke with say the system corrupts even the young and the idealistic ones.
 
 Observers give examples of people like Mulayam Singh Yadav, Lalu Prasad Yadav and former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda.
 
 “In 1967, when Mulayam first contested in UP, it was with the backing of Ram Manohar Lohia, who was fighting (Jawaharlal) Nehru’s dynasty politics. Look what has happened now. There are more members from the Mulayam family in politics than Nehru’s. Similarly, Lalu rose to fame fighting Congress’ corruption in the JP movement, but is himself in jail for corruption,” political analyst S Mahadevaprakash points out.
 
 Even Gowda, who was fighting against the Indira Gandhi-Sanjay Gandhi dynasty, ended up converting his party into that of his family’s.
 
 Another analyst, Harish Ramaswamy though argues: “The new voters, based on our interactions with many of them, show clear indications that caste and community wouldn’t be enough for them. They are more concerned about shaping their immediate future and that is what they are looking at while voting.”
 
 Political parties, however, are not too concerned about what all this could mean as the numbers, as of now, are too small.
 
