HYDERABAD: Following a series of reports by 
  highlighting the rampant use of   of less than 50 microns by business establishments in the city, the   ( ) has finally begun cracking down on errant establishments to curb the plastic menace.

 The civic body has started inspecting establishments and imposing fines on those found using banned plastic bags. On Thursday, GHMC officials collected a fine of ₹4,000 from various establishments on this account. On Wednesday, the civic body had mopped up ₹13,000.
 
 
  
  
 
 GHMC has also instructed its deputy commissioners, entomology staff and community resource persons to visit shops in their respective areas and spread awareness about the hazardous effects of banned plastic usage on the environment.
 
 And this crackdown against low density plastic bags will continue, GHMC officials told TOI. “Apart from continuing the drive against establishments, we are also planning to fine customers using plastic bags of below 50 microns,” said N  , additional commissioner (sanitation department), GHMC.
 
 As per GHMC estimates, around 1.4 crore plastic covers are being used by the nearly 20 lakh households in the GHMC limits. Of this, most of the plastic being used does not meet the requisite density norms.
 
 In financial year 2017-18, so far, fines worth ₹25.52 lakh have been collected by the GHMC authorities from business establishments who were found using plastic bags of less than 50 microns.
 
 While the highest quantum of fines has so far been recovered from Rajendra Nagar circle (₹2.5 lakh),   comes next with ₹2.23 lakh, Goshamahal circle with ₹1.72 lakh, Moosapet with ₹1.69 lakh, ₹1.5 lakh in Khairatabad and ₹1.25 lakh from Kapra. In the IT corridor alone, ₹1.25 lakh was collected from   circle by way of fines for using banned plastic carry bags.
 
 “We have also explained to people at meat stores to bring with them carry tiffin boxes to carry meat instead of using plastic bags,” GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI, pointing out that the civic body has also been taking action against meat shops found violating the ban.
 
 According to environmentalists, the best way to tackle the menace would be to seal the manufacturing units that are churning out plastic bags of inferior quality.
 
 “Manufactures think it is cheaper to buy the regulator than abide by regulations. If there is political will and stringent action is taken against manufacturing units, it will be possible to enforce the plastic ban,” said environmentalist Prof K Purushotham Reddy.
 
 
