THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sexual assault   have not subsided in Kerala despite various interventions by   cell, Childline and the police. Of the 5,800 cases (approx) pending under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ( ) till 2017 in Kerala, only 900 cases have been disposed by the district courts. While the acquittal rate is high, conviction rate remains abysmally low.

 This year, around 600 Pocso cases were registered in the state. Nobel laureate and child rights activist   pointed out that sexually-abused children in Kerala would have to wait till 2039 for justice going by the pendency of cases.
 
 “In the previous two months, 138 Pocso cases were decided in Kerala. Of these, accused in 106 cases were acquitted, accused in 17 cases were convicted and there was partial conviction in 12 cases. The remaining cases were quashed or dropped due to the death of the accused or survivor. It is alarming that the number of acquittals is high,” said child rights activist and lawyer Soumya Bhoumik.
 
 Of the 2,122 cases of sexual abuse of children booked under Pocso Act from January to December 2016 in Kerala, only about 387 cases were presented before the court and among them conviction happened in only 34 cases.
 
 “Only district courts in Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram are handling the 5,000-odd pending cases. There are no special child-friendly or women-friendly courts. Now, there is no additional fund or support for the judiciary. After the Kathua gangrape and murder, there is a hue and cry to increase the quantum of punishment or to ensure capital punishment, however, Pocso Act is yet to be implemented in Jammu & Kashmir,” said former member of Kerala state commission for protection of child rights (KeSCPCR) J Sandhya, a lawyer.
 
 KeSCPCR report revealed that 3,655 Pocso cases were pending in Kerala till 2016. Of the 4,275 cases that came up for hearing in the district courts in 2016, 620 cases were disposed of and acquittal happened in 484 cases and conviction in 73.
 
 Nirbhaya state coordinator R Nishanthini said that the reason for the huge pendency in sexual assault cases was due to the lesser number of dedicated courts for the purpose. On the increasing rate of acquittals, she said it could be due to many factors, including lack of evidence. The accused in most cases are either relatives or those known to the family of the survivor. Yet, a lot of interventions are planned for speedy disposal of cases.
 
 
