PUNE: Thieves broke into a farmhouse in   village near   and made away with a television, refrigerator and about 20 pairs of lovebirds. 

 The property belongs to a software engineer. 
 
 The theft came to light on Wednesday when a neighbour alerted   (35), the owner, about the incident. Mhalas, a resident of  , has lodged a complaint with the Talegeon-Dabhade police. 
 
 He told TOI, “We are more concerned about the birds that include 20 pairs of lovebirds and an African parrot. My father collected these birds from various cities including Mumbai and Pune. He has a special bond with the birds.”
 
 Mhalas, who works in a city-based software company, lives his wife and father. The family owns a farmland at Adhale Budruk village, which is about 18 km from Talegaon. “We have constructed a house on our land,” the techie said.
 
 He claimed that his father used to stay in the farmhouse for about 15 days in a month. “However, due to his ill health, he has not been able to visit the place for the past one month,”   said.
 
 He added that his father is fond of birds and collected them from different cities. “We have made a special arrangement for these birds in our house. After my father stopped visiting the house, I put up a unit which automatically releases water for the birds. I used to keep food for the birds and visit the farmhouse every week to refill the food,” the techie said.
 
 Theft came to light on Wednesday
 
 Mhalas said that he had requested a woman, who resided in the area, to visit the house once in a while for cleaning. “On Wednesday, when the woman went to the house, she found that the main door was broken. Everything was scattered on the floor. She did not enter the premises and alerted our neighbour,” Mhalas said.
 
 The neighbour immediately informed Mhalas about the incident. “When I rushed to the place, I found that the refrigerator and television were missing. The suspects had opened the cupboards and scattered everything on the floor. I rushed to check the birds and found that the doors of the cage were open and the birds were missing. I searched the entire premises and even our farm but to no avail,” Mhalas said.
 
 
