NAGPUR: In a bid to train teachers to effectively deal with children worst affected after disasters, the National Civil Defence College, Civil Lines, organized a workshop by Dr   C, a faculty member of National Institute of   and Neuro Sciences (Nimhans), Bengaluru, on its campus, on Thursday. 

 The workshop on ‘Psycho-social care for schoolteachers’ was attended by a number of counsellors and teachers from schools across the city. The event saw interactive and brainstorming sessions in which teachers learnt various techniques to handle sensitive issues children face while recovering from traumatic conditions.
 
 A disaster can be natural, man-made or the result of human error and reactions after the crisis vary in all cases. It causes severe disruption of ecological and psychosocial aspects which greatly exceeds the coping capacity of an affected individual or community, said Jayakumar. 
 
 The motto of the workshop was to upgrade the level of preparedness to fight post-disaster symptoms, said Jayakumar. He said, “It may also lead to deaths and loss of property which can change the perception of the human being forever. Children are the most vulnerable section of the society during this time and they need counselling and mental conditioning to channelize their thoughts in a positive direction. Schoolteachers should therefore play an important role here.”
 
 A counsellor spoke of a case of dysrhythmia where her student strongly insisted to change the location and move to a safer place after being hit adversely by floods in Mumbai. There are many emotional challenges which can hinder their way of living life.
 
 To this, Jayakumar said that Nagpur may be in the low risk zone when it comes to natural calamities like earthquakes, cyclones and floods, but it still tops the list of farmer suicides in the country. There could be other reasons that cause grief and affect performance of children. It is the responsibility of teachers to understand their needs and help them prosper in life.
 
 He fragmented teachers in four groups where they explored and analysed the effects of disasters. They jotted down their thoughts about physical, psychological, economical and social impacts and studied the consequences. They deduced how moral values of people can decline due to negativity prevailing in the region affected by disasters. By grooming kids from a tender age and inculcating virtues in them, we can create a crime-free and peaceful atmosphere, he added.
 
 ends
 
 
