NAGPUR: In a demonstration of how divided the city   is, a meeting of rebel party workers was held here on Monday and demanded removal of Vikas   from the post of city president. They also condemned the resolution passed by the Thakre-led party unit on Sunday welcoming ‘expulsion of defiant party men.’

 The rebel group meeting was held at residence of co-opted corporator Kishor Jichkar and was presided over by senior party men and DCC general secretary  . Leader of opposition in   Tanaji Vanve, several corporators, DCC office-bearers as well as ex-MP Gev Awari and ex-MLA   were reportedly present at the meeting. Obviously, it was aimed at garnering support for senior leader and ex-minister  , who was expelled from the party last week.
 
 The rebel meeting passed a resolution which said the resolution passed by the DCC greeting action taken by the Pradesh Congress Committee against a defiant leader (without naming Chaturvedi) was uncalled for. “The move was aimed at dividing the Congress and strengthening the rival parties like BJP,” the rebel resolution said.
 
 The   group also questioned Thakre’s propriety in carrying out an enquiry against Chaturvedi on ‘some made-up charges’ when there were strong complaints that Thakre was involved in alleged distribution of 22 duplicate AB forms during NMC elections in February last year. “How can someone facing such a serious charge be expected to be fair in dealing in his enquiry against the very complainants,” asked a rebel spokesman.
 
 They said Thakre was asked to continue as city president as a stopgap arrangement till the organizational elections were completed. “Thakre should be removed from the post for failing to conduct the organizational polls and an ad hoc body be given the responsibility to conduct polls and declare results,” the rebels demanded.
 
 Asked about the rebel Congress meeting in the city, Thakre said he had no idea if some ex-functionaries held any unauthorized meeting. “As far as I am concerned, all DCC office-bearers were present in the meeting I called on Sunday in party office and they voted for the resolutions which hailed action against rebels and sought framing of a code of conduct for party men,” said Thakre. He had been claiming that the party elections in the city were over and done with and he was here to stay as city president.
 
 
