CHENNAI: The court-appointed administrator for the   will begin despatching ballot papers to more than 1.1 lakh doctors to elect represetatives for 37 seats in the regulatory body but the validity of the council itself is in question. There has been a void in the state since the term of the previous council ended more than six months ago. 

 The National Medical Commission Bill tabled in   by the Union health ministry proposes to make the   redundant and the role and powers of state medical councils are still not clear. "It will be very sad if the powers of the medical councils are taken away. It was one of the important bodies where doctors were regulating doctors," said   state wing president Dr A Jayalal.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, decisions against at least five doctors involved in two infamous cases - the hair transplant in a salon that killed a medical student and a doctor who pulled the plug of her ailing father in the intensive care unit - have been pending for nearly two years now. Although the disciplinary committee recommended suspension of these doctors from the medical register, no action has been initiated against these doctors due to the lack of a quorum. Besides this, several complaints against doctors for unethical practices such as collecting kickbacks are pending inquiry.
 
 The tenure of the last set of office-bearers of the council came to an end on June 19 with at least two members moving the court against each other with serious allegations of mismanagement and abuse of powers. The Madras high court then appointed an administrator, Justice K Venkataraman, to conduct fresh elections. After verifying the electoral rolls, he has called for elections to the seven posts. The ballot papers will be despatched before January 12 and doctors have been asked to turn them in before February 12.
 
 The candidates have divided themselves into four groups and have begun campaigns, but most of them admit they do not know if the election will be held. "The debate on the bill will be held on Tuesday. If it is passed, we are not sure if state councils will be required. Any bylaw can make us redundant," said former Tamil Nadu medical council president Dr K Senthil.
 
 The court-appointed administrator agreed. "As of now, we are going ahead with the elections. If there is any legislative changes brought in by the proposed bill, we will have to place them before the court," Justice   said.
 
