

  Having made waves in Sandalwood, Kriti has been making quite an impression over the last year during which she’s had two Bollywood film releases and one each in Kannada and Tamil. She has also been the Bangalore Times’ Most Desirable Woman of the year twice. 
 
 : While she has been linked to a Telugu star during the initial years of her career, she has maintained that she has been very much single ever since.
 
  Her fun attitude and easy persona has won her many admirers, add to that her flawless complexion and lithe body.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 : The year 2017 was probably one among the best ones in Sruthi’s career so far, what with as many as nine films released – two of which were bilingual. While her Kannada debut Lucia (2013) ensured the audience noticed her, this dancer-actress won the critics over too and is the recipient of the State Award for Best Actress for her work in Beautiful Manasugalu (2017). 
 
  Love has been in the air for many a years for this talented girl who is committed to a fellow dancer and kalaripayattu instructor.
 
  She’s defined her own style that adds a quirky western swag to her unique desi looks.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Miss Supranational 2016 and Miss Supranational Asia and Oceania 2016 are just a few of namma hudugi Srinidhi’s achievements in the international platform. She lost no time in signing up for the currently in production magnum opus – KGF, which has had her in the news for all the right reasons. 
 
 Supposedly single, but has a line of suitors waiting to grab her attention.
 
 Her million-watt smile is absolutely infectious and you just can’t miss the long, sexy legs.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 She has a knack to pick critically acclaimed roles. Take the woman-oriented Urvi or the quasi-experimental Operation Alamelamma in Kannada, to each of her four films in Tamil in 2017, including Vikram Vedha, Shraddha has proved that she means business as far as making an impact on screen is concerned, and has also picked a hatke story for her B-Town debut.
 
 Currently, rumoured to be dating a Chennai-based photographer.
 
 Her unconventional good looks teamed with her head-on-her-shoulders kinda attitude make her a winner.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 While she continued to rock the screen in Chowka and Melkote Manja, Aindrita also returned to the Bengali screen with Amar Aponjon in 2017. Appearances as brand ambassador for the celebrity badminton matches had her fans rooting for her through the year.
 
 Has been dating actor Diganth for years now, but we’re still waiting for an official announcement. 
 
  Ever wonder how so much spunk can be packed into a small frame… Aindrita shows you how! This dynamite has loads of oomph and talent.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Her films Chandralekha and Masterpiece may have won her that initial space in the hearts of the Kannada film audience, but Shanvi sealed her place on top in 2017 with her performances in big-budget films like Saheba, Tarak and Mufti. Her regularly updated Insta page has kept her following growing at a rather fast pace. 
 
 Single she says, but we wonder how!
 
 This vivacious girl seems to be high on energy always and has a winsome smile, all packed in a petite frame.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Having tasted blockbuster success and critical acclaim with Bharjari and Pushpak Vimana over the year, Rachita seems to have also won hearts with her presence on the telly as a judge on Comedy Talkies. The young lady was also in the news for a couple of big signings for films to be shot this year.
 
 Single, but is she ready to mingle?
 
 Dimples that are to die for. She is, after all, Kannada cinema’s Dimple Queen.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Kirik Party propelled this pataka into the limelight, and how! She then won national fame for her spirited participation in MTV Roadies, which she says was her childhood dream. A controversy surrounding College Kumara and an infamous stint in Bigg Boss kept her in the public eye.
 
 Too young to be dating, perhaps?
 
  An athletic body and dance moves that can put anyone to shame. Her social media pages have a big following.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 This gorgeous girl from Karnataka won the top slot in the state at the fbb Femina Miss India 2017 contest; and was among the top five Miss Active and top nine in Body Beautiful titles at the national level.
 
 : She’s single, and has a firm focus on being the next big thing. 
 
  Doe eyes, a flawless figure and a can-do spirit has helped her move up her fan base over the year. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Both her Kannada films in 2017 were opposite top stars in the industry – Mass Leader with Shivarajkumar and Mugulu Nage opposite Ganesh. It is no wonder then that she’s become one among the sought after freshers in the industry.
 
 Too little time for men, what with films and academics taking up a lot of this college-goer’s time.
 
 Fans faithfully look out for her daily Insta updates to get a glimpse of her classic girl-next-door looks, backed by a spunky attitude.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  It may have been over a year since this talented actress made her presence felt on screen, but her new found status as one half of the new power couple in the Kannada film industry has only upped her popularity.
 
 Married to Yash
 
  She has carried forward her girl-next-door charm into her new life as the adorable wife. Elegance is what she’s all about. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  This power-house of talent is one of the top names that the industry opts for when they have on offer a role of substance. While she rocked the screen in Bharjari and also with a cameo in Anjaniputra, this actress has been on a signing spree with 8 films expected to hit the screens through 2018.
 
  She’s taking it slow after being heart-broken once.
 
 A woman with a mission – to prove her metal, and looks to match.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She may not be as active on the film screen anymore, but that hardly keeps Ramya away from being in the news. The former MP has gained a firm foothold in politics, albeit in the background. But the spotlight continues to shine on.
 
 Claims to be single, always.
 
  Smart, sassy, gorgeous and absolutely feisty, all packed in one.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Her big ticket Kannada film last year was the Shivarajkumar starrer Mass Leader. While she has also had two Tamil films hit the screens over the year, Pranitha’s been busy setting up the second branch of her entrepreneurial venture in Bengaluru.
 
  Single and eagerly looking forward to meet Mr Right
 
 Ms Perfect in all matters, be it the way she handles work, the way she dresses and the way she speaks. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  It’s raining women-oriented roles for this former Miss India finalist. While a lot many projects were announced through the year, only one has hit the screens.
 
 Recently single
 
 A funky devil-may-care attitude and a super-hot bod to match.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Popular in both Kannada and Malayalam film industries, Meghana’s year was about further proving her acting prowess in films like Allama, Noorondu Nenapu and Jindaa. A brief encounter with controversy surrounding her dialogues in the trailer of Jindaa and an official engagement in her personal life had her grabbing the limelight.
 
 Engaged to actor Chiranjeevi Sarja after a 10-year-long friendship. We hear wedding bells in this summer.
 
 A firm head on her shoulders and an ability to make a mark with any character she portrays, Meghana’s strong assets are a dancer’s body coupled with intriguing and expressive eyes.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 This Bengaluru girl was a Miss Diva finalist in 2014, following which she focussed her energy to chart out a career in films. After making a splash with the Bollywood film Munna Michael, this beauty queen is all set for her Telugu debut. 
 
  Many rumours with eligible young men, but sadly all untrue.
 
 Her fiery pout and smouldering looks. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 She did us proud when she won Miss Supranational 2014, and since then, Asha’s been a popular face in showbiz in Mumbai. A career in films is in the offing.
 
 Very much single
 
  Quick witted and fun loving, here’s a woman who oozes confidence.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Deepa returned to the big screen after staying away for a year with a big bang in 2017. Both her films, the multi-starrer Chowka and the Darshan-starrer Chakravarthy, were declared hits, putting her right back on the map. 
 
  We hear that she is in love with the pen. Wonder if someone’s lucky enough to receive a love letter.
 
 A practical thinker, she is one beautiful woman with an artistic bent of mind.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Manvitha followed her debut with Kendasampige (2015) with a part in the multi-starrer Chowka (2017). But it is her much-talked about character in Tagaru (2018) that ensured her fan base grew through 2017. If you haven’t checked out her Insta page, you are missing something.
 
 Very much single, and most definitely looking out for a Mr Right. 
 
  Her vibrant, young, fresh energy is infectious.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 She represented India at the Miss Universe pageant and since then has been one of the most sought after personalities in the modelling fraternity.
 
  Single, she’s got her focus on work as of now.
 
 Combine International looks with a street smart attitude and you have a winning combination.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  From Hindi television to Kannada films, Avantika made her shift with RangiTaranga (2015). While she did not see a film release in 2017, working on films like Raju Kannada Medium, and Rajaratha ensured she continues to be much sought after. 
 
 She’s kept it mysterious. Wonder what the story is.
 
  A perfect mix of beauty and brains that is bound to leave anyone intrigued.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 his Miss Supranational Asia and Oceania 2015 has made her presence felt not only with the country but on an international stage too. Aafreen recently graduated and is a doctor now. 
 
  Recently engaged, we are told
 
 Calm and composed, she’s the girl who seems to have got it all.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 After winning the Bengaluru finale of Times Fresh Face 2016, Ria did us proud by claiming the national title for the year as well. While news of a Sandalwood debut has been on the cards, the young lady has been busy with both academics as well as her share of professional dancing and modelling.
 
 Has her eyes firmly set on a film career, so no time for a ‘fresh’ romance, we suppose. 
 
 She’s smart, super energetic, dances like a dream and has eyes that instantly draw you. Could there be a better combination?
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  This Miss Diva Universe 2014 made it to the final 15 at the Miss Universe pageant. Since then, she’s not only been a sought after model, but she’s also been a mentor of sorts to aspiring models too.
 
  Rumoured to be dating a fashion entrepreneur
 
 Unconventional international looks with an amazingly warm attitude.
 
 
  
 
 : After close to two years of figuring out the way ahead, 2017 proved to bear some critically acclaimed fruits, in a way. Bhavana was seen in films like Satya Harishchandra, Dayavittu Gamanisi and Tiger Galli, over the year which has got her right back into the race.
 
 We hear she was tending to a broken heart in the time she went missing from screen, but she is now ready for love. We love that spirit.
 
 This petite beauty is the envy of most accomplished dancers for being able to carry off with Indian and Western moves with elan.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 With just one film Eradu Kanasu and a cameo in the Happy New Year title track in 2017 after a pretty impressive performance in Kahi the previous year, it was her popularity on the latest Bigg Boss Kannada season that ensured she was the talk of town. She won fans at the celebrity badminton league for her ‘entertaining’ skills on the court.
 
 Been away in the Bigg Boss house too long to spark a romance, but she’s surely the girl about town.
 
 One of the few women who can look as hot in a sari as in a bikini.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  This model-actress is the first choice for most filmmakers for the girl-next-door role and that’s exactly what she was seen as in her two big screen outings – Smile Please and Silliconn City. We hear that’s also the reason why other female co-stars envy the attention showered upon her on the set.
 
 Officially single, though rumours surrounding a close friend are hard to miss.
 
 An easy attitude with no hidden agenda, she’s a girl you would love to be friends with. Add to that, a pretty face and fab legs that seem to go on forever.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 She’s not hit the screens right through 2017 and with good reason. The award-winning actress has been in the news for turning co-producer for the four south remakes of the Bollywood film Queen. She also stars in the Kannada version – of which is expected to hit the screens this year.
 
 She spent the beginning of 2017 travelling across the world to help get over a broken heart. Her focus now is strictly ‘work’.
 
 Be it demure or sexy, there isn’t a look that Parul doesn’t set hearts aflutter in. 
 
