JAIPUR: The agitating farmers for loan waive off on Thursday pledged that if the BJP government has prevented us from reaching the assembly, they will ensure that in the next assembly elections the BJP leaders do not get a chance to enter the assembly.

 Ashok Dhawale, president of the   addressing a gathering of farmers outside the office of the CPI-M in Jaipur on Thursday said the farmers had planned to gather in large numbers near the state assembly to protest and seek a full waiver of loans and force the government to honour promises made after the 11-day protest in Sikar last September. 
 
 He said , “The government had promised loan waiver, pension of Rs2,000 per month to elderly farmers, arrangements for stray cattle that destroys standing crops. None of these promises have been kept. The BJP government ought to be termed a government that does not keep promises. 
 
 He said, “We have a similar experience with the Fadnavis government in Maharashtra too, and farmers are planning a march from Nasik to Mumbai, to gather outside the state assembly in protest. The farmers of Rajasthan have inspired movements in other parts of the country. The chief minister probably believes that by stopping farmers from arriving today, she has scuttled the movement. If the government goes back on its word, it will be faced with a bigger protest than Rajasthan, Dhawale said.
 
 Joint secretary of AIKS Vijoo Krishnan said, “The CPI-M government in Kerala has offered pension of Rs1,100 to farmers above 60 years of age, over and above the pension available to old people. If the government of Kerala can do it, why cannot Rajasthan? The procurement price of grain in Kerala is higher by Rs800 per quintal than elsewhere. The government says it does not have money to waive farm loans.   of Rotomac pens got loans of over Rs3,000 crore to import wheat. Wheat is not even produced in Singapore. At this rate, the government will soon be disbursing loans for import of tomatoes from the Moon!”
 
 
