GURUGRAM: City-based sculptor-artist Subodh Gupta had a VIP visitor on Sunday evening when French president   and his wife Brigitte, on a four-day tour of India, dropped in at his studio.

 “It was a private visit. They had come to see the studio, where I had also invited others from the art world,” Gupta told TOI in a brief chat, adding that the couple met him warmly, unsurprising considering his long-time association with France.
 
 However, dysfunctional streetlights almost played spoilsport, as the visiting dignitaries were greeted by unlit stretches at Maharana Pratap Chowk and the IDC area, in Sector 14. 
 
 “The road was so dark we couldn’t identify fellow cops from 50 metres,” said a senior cop, requesting anonymity. “It is really disappointing that the civic authority didn’t fix the streetlights even when they knew about the visit since Thursday,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, Gupta, aptly, has a big show coming up in the French capital next month, at the  . And it is this, he revealed, that is currently taking up much of his time. The retrospective, his first in France, will focus on his early years (and the provenance of his lifetime’s work), while also shining a light on the epics in the stainless steel of the more recent past. Getting under way on April 13, the exhibition will continue till August 26, 2018.
 
 Incidentally, Gupta’s studio also doubles as a workshop and a manufacturing unit. 
 
 He makes use of commonplace objects, utilised every day by Indians, to create monumental pieces of art. And besides stainless steel, he fashions works out of brass, bronze, copper and nickel – works that are modest in detail and design but humbling in overall effect.
 
 Gupta’s off-kilter creations, always eye-catching, have received much acclaim globally but France holds a special place in his heart. ‘God Hungry’, his installation for the Lille 3000 festival (2006), left a deep impression on many a visitor. 
 
 In its image of kitchen utensils cascading through the arches of a church, ‘God Hungry’ alluded heavily, and hauntingly, to the deadly tsunami of 2004. In 2011, Gupta’s creations were among the most viewed during the Paris-Delhi-Bombay exhibition, held at Centre Georges Pompidou.
 
 In 2013, Gupta received the Chevalier dans l’Ordre des Arts et des Lettres (or the Knight of the Order of Arts and Letters), presented to those whose creative vision has enhanced art, culture and literature. Gupta joined the likes of   and Habib Tanveer, icons of theatre, and celebrated photographer  , all of whom have been conferred with the honour. 
 
 It is a special relationship that has now received a presidential nod of approval. And for four months over the European summer, Parisians will again be witness to the distinctive oeuvre of one of the world’s most noted sculptor-artists.
 
 
 
