BENGALURU: Mounting an offensive against Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi   for daring him to ban cow slaughter, chief minister Siddaramaiah on Monday said, "I have reared cows, grazed them and even cleaned dung. Has Yogi Adityanath done all these?"

 Siddaramaiah’s retort comes a day after Adityanath, while addressing a BJP rally in Bengaluru, challenged the former to prove his Hindu credentials by banning cow slaughter in the state. Adityanath had stated: "The cow is a sacred animal to Hindus. When we were in power in the state, we had enacted a legislation banning slaughter of cows. But the   government came to power and repealed it. In the run-up to the polls, Siddaramaiah is telling everyone that he too is a Hindu. If Siddaramaiah is a Hindu he should not allow cow slaughter."
 
 Countering Yogi, Siddaramaiah tweeted on Monday: "Has Yogi Adityanath, who is preaching us about conservation of cows, ever grazed cows? I have reared cows, grazed them and cleaned dung. He does not have any moral authority to speak on the issue." 
 
 Siddaramaiah also slammed BJP leaders for discriminating people on the basis of their food habits. "A lot of Hindus eat beef. If I want to eat, I will, who are they to tell me not to consume beef. I don’t eat beef only because I don’t like to. He should read what Swami Vivekananda said about cow slaughter before preaching us," Siddaramaiah stated. 
 
 Joining him, home minister R Ramalinga Reddy said: "Why ban only cow slaughter? BJP is in power at the Centre and it can bring in a legislation banning slaughter of all types of animals across the country. If that happens, there is no need for Karnataka to come up with an anti-slaughter law confined only to cows."
 
  working president Dinesh Gundu Rao tweeted: "Siddaramaiah or the Congress has never promoted beef-eating. Our Constitution and our laws allow people to eat food of their choice. Stop dividing India on religion, caste, diet, culture, practice and dress code."
 
 Reddy also slammed Adityanath for stating that the law-and-order situation in Karnataka had deteriorated in recent times. The minister said: "Crime statistics released by the Centre show there is anarchy in Uttar Pradesh and not in Karnataka. Over 450 encounter killings have taken place, cases against political leaders have been withdrawn and children continue to die in government hospitals in Uttar Pradesh. It is an irony that he (Yogi Adityanath) is speaking about law and order in Karnataka."
 
 The minister maintained that state BJP leaders are roping in Adityanath in the run-up to the polls as part of the strategy to polarise voters.
 
 
