MUMBAI: In a significant development in the 2003   case, the prosecution moved the trial court on Thursday to summon four more police officers and make them stand trial.

 Yunus, a software engineer, was picked up as a suspect in connection with the 2002 Ghatkopar BEST bus blast. 
 
 
  
 
 The move comes despite the government’s earlier refusal to grant permission to prosecute the officers—Praful Bhosale (retired), Hemant Desai, Rajaram Vhanmane and Ashok Khot. The trial in the case is currently underway against suspended sub-inspector Sachin Vaze and three constables.
 
 In the application made under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), special public prosecutor Dhiraj Mirajkar sought that summons be issued to the officers to and answer the charges.
 
 The prosecutor has now relied on the deposition of a key eyewitness—a doctor who teaches forensics in a medical college—who had allegedly seen Yunus being brutally assaulted by the four while in custody and vomiting blood on January 6, 2003. The witness said that the four officers were present when Yunus was assaulted and Desai kicked him. The witness, a co-accused in the 2002 Ghatkopar BEST bus blast case who was later acquitted, had witnessed the assault in a lock-up in 2003 and on the basis of his statement the case was initially registered. The doctor is the first witness to depose in the trial, which finally commenced against cops Sachin Vaze and others in 2017.
 
 The witness said that the condition of vomiting blood (haematemesis) unless treated immediately is fatal. “After that day Yunus has not been heard or seen. Having regard to the witness’s evidence, the only possibility is that he died of the assault on January 6, 2013, while in custody of the police officers named by the witness…” the plea states. 
 
 Mirajkar told the court that Yunus’s mother had also moved the Bombay high court to name the four officers as accused in the case, but in a 2012 order the HC did not interfere with the government stand. The issue was taken to the apex court where it is pending. 
 
 Judge V S Padalkar adjourned the matter to February 26 when the prosecution will submit documents, including those relating to the sanction and the HC order on the issue.
 
 Referring to the sanction, the prosecution submitted that the go-ahead to take cognisance of an offence by a public servant would be required only if the act was committed during the actual or purported discharge of duty. The prosecution said that police officers are also statutorily duty-bound to provide necessary medical aid to any person arrested or in their custody and also provide proper sustenance and shelter. The prosecution said that it is well-settled law that beating or assaulting a suspect during interrogation for investigation is not part of either actual or purported discharge of duty of any police officer. “The acts, stripping Yunus to his underwear, tying his hands, whipping him with a belt, slapping and kicking his chest and abdomen, ascribed by the witness in his evidence to the four officers he has named, cannot and do not in any view of the matter fall within the ambit of the phrase actual or purported discharge of duty.” 
 
 
