A temple all by itself on a grassy knoll, with the towering hills in the far distance providing a panoramic effect. Even in the sixteenth century, most of Goa’s temples had thatched roofs, which had to be renewed every year. Tambdi Surla, built five hundred years earlier, has stone tiles cantilevered in such a way that the central portion is covered with just one large section of intricately carved stone. In the construction of the temple there is no evidence of any mortar being used, just stone riveted into stone, like some colossal jigsaw puzzle.”

 
  
 
 This is how the late Manohar Malgonkar, renowned author of Goan roots, described the “cleverly contrived theatrical scene” one is greeted with at the site of the picturesque temple located within the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary.
 
 Built during the reign of the Kadamba dynasty, in the 13th century, historians say that Jain influences in the architecture dispute the origins of the temple. While Kadambas built many temples across Goa during their regime, the Tambdi Surla temple has survived the ravages of time and nature. Located in the deep, dense forest of the sanctuary, the temple remained inaccessible until recently, when a road was constructed leading to the heritage site, now protected under the aegis of the Archaeological Society of India.
 
 Experts in temple architecture have termed the structural design of the temple as a “matured form of Kadamba architecture with the influence of Hoysala and Kalyani Chalukyas”.
 
 What adds a sense of grandeur to the temple is the intricate carvings in the mandapa pillars, lotus medallions on the ceilings and beautifully carved sculptures. “The ‘haras’ of the exterior portion of the temple were ornamented with niches and the niches were filled with beautifully carved images of respective gods. On the basis of available inscription in the Bhuvaraha Narasimha temple, and the style of art and architecture of this temple, it might have been constructed during the period of Permadi deva of Kadamba dynasty,” says a research paper on the temple.
 
 Though the temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva, there are a number of objects depicting Lord Vishnu, thereby lending an insight into the introduction of the Dwaita philosophy of Hinduism — blending of Shaivite and Vaishnavite ideology — historians say. Besides, as the temple bears semblance to some Jain temples, particularly the carvings in the ceilings, researchers are of the view that the influence of Jainism on the temple architecture is also dominant.
 
 While the historical significance of the temple attracts hordes of tourists to the site, devotees throng the Mahadev temple on Mahashivratri every year to perform ‘abhishek’.
 
 The cascading waterfall in the vicinity is also a popular spot among tourists.
 
