TRICHY: The   Of India’s (MCI) decision to bar open school children from appearing for the national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) for MBBS admission has turned life upside down for many medical aspirants in the country who have been preparing for the same. The MCI has deemed them unfit to write   claiming that they are not on a par with regular students. Though the ministry of health had written to the MCI to reconsider the decision, the recent notification issued for NEET mentions the changed rule regarding open school students.

 M   is one among the many students aggrieved at the decision. Though she had completed her Plus 2 in 2016 in commerce subjects,   realised that she had taken a wrong decision and that medicine was her calling. She was even ready to repeat her higher secondary in science subjects to realize her dream. However, she finally decided to opt for National Institute of Open School (NIOS) to clear plus 2 in science again so that she could take NEET. 
 
 What had given many like Anju confidence was the MCI’s decision in 2012 recognising NIOS certificates for students seeking admissions to MBBS courses. In fact, a report quoting   data, says that over 1,400 students of seven open school boards — including NIOS — had qualified in NEET last year. Anju was looking forward to write her plus 2 in April this year through distance mode and NEET in May. NIOS was mandated by government of India to provide educational access to those outside the formal education system. Apart from slow learners, many bright students had also opted for NIOS to prepare for NEET. Speaking to TOI, Vice-president of  , Dr C V Bhirmanandham, justified the decision and ruled out the possibility of a roll-back. He said that the syllabus of NIOS was not the same as CBSE and, most importantly, NIOS lacked the laboratory sessions which were vital. 
 
 “The MCI approval to the NIOS certificate was clearly mentioned in the online prospectus of the NIOS which prompted us to opt for it. Otherwise, I would have opted for regular school for my daughter,” says Anju’s father M Muthuraman, an auditor in Coimbatore. The decision has come at the time when students are ready to face NEET and their plus 2 examinations, he said. 
 
 Denying opportunity from appearing for the test was not fair at this point of time, said Ramanathan, father of Selvaraj, another aggrieved student who was preparing to face NEET. “All we are asking for is an opportunity to write the exam. When NEET is mandatory for all medical seats, why are they trying to enforce this rule on plus 2 certificate. Only those who clear NEET will qualify,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, terming the MCI decision as unfortunate, regional director of NIOS Chennai, P  , said that there was absolutely no reason to debar open school student from taking an entrance examination when the Medical Council had already given recognition to Senior Secondary Certificates of NIOS (Class XII) in 2012. He had suggested NIOS to the parents of a medical aspirant who were working in Tokyo Japan. The boy was confident of cracking NEET but he has been robbed of the opportunity now. 
 
 On MCI approving NIOS certificate in 2012 for medical admission, MCI’s Bhirmanandham said that past mistakescould not be ratified. The policy decision had come after several meetings and the decision was taken for the good of the society as it dealt with lives of humans. Saying that the decision had not come all of a sudden, he said that a team of experts had made the recommendation which was further approved by a high level committee. This had then finally gone for the approval of the central government, he said.
 
 However, P Ravi said that NIOS had already written to the ministries of human resource development as well as health and family welfare to safeguard the future of candidates and they were awaiting a positive response. 
 
 
