CHANDIGARH: In a major relief to   councillor  , the Punjab and Haryana high court has suspended his 1.5-year   and granted him bail in a nine-year-old case related to fraudulent allotment of   at the Sector 26 Grain Market.

 Babla had filed a revision petition against Chandigarh district court’s order of imprisonment, demanding suspension of sentence and pleading for his bail. Admitting the revision petition, the court observed: “The allegations of favouring his loyalists… appears to be debatable in view of the approval of the new list by the committee. All members of the committee signed the approved list as a token of confirmation. At this stage, without meaning anything on the merits of the case, it appears that the case requires deeper consideration.”
 
 The matter goes back to August 2009, when Chandigarh Police had registered a case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy against former market committee chairman Babla and Sector-26 Grain Market Arhtiya Association president Rakesh over irregularities in the allotment of 69 platforms at the market. Babla was booked under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), and 471 (using a forged document as genuine) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the affidavit of complainant Suraj Parkash Ahuja.
 
 After preliminary investigation, the first-information report (FIR) was registered on August 19, 2009, when Babla was market committee chairman. 
 
 
 
 
 Under his signatures, certain platforms for the sale of vegetables under the newly built shed were allotted on the basis of what was alleged to be fabricated and doctored record. Although there were 59 licensees, 10 ineligible parties were also accommodated during the July 24, 2009, auction when Babla was chairman of the market committee. It came to light and Babla was booked after a shed collapsed and had to be re-allocated.
 
 Babla had surrendered on December 28, 2009, after a local court issued orders that he’d be declared a proclaimed offender, otherwise. In February 2010, a special investigation team (SIT) of Chandigarh Police filed the charges against Babla. Even though key witness and market committee assistant secretary G R Pillai backtracked from his police statement during the trial, another witness, market committee official Ranjit Singh, corroborated the allegations. However, the defence counsel assigned political motive to the complainant and said its objective was to ruin Babla’s political career.
 
