Pune: A team of safety experts of the   on Friday inspected the dangerous S-shaped turn near the  , about 70km from here, on the Satara-Pune highway stretch.

 The team will submit its observations to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) soon. Based on them, NHAI will chalk out the measures to minimize the chances of accidents.
 
 The inspection was conducted four days after 18 labourers lost their lives in an accident on the treacherous stretch. The driver of their truck lost control over the wheel and the vehicle jumped over a retaining wall before tipping over.
 
  
 Located on the Satara-Pune corridor, the S-shaped turn and the 1km stretch after that have been under criticism owing to frequent fatal accidents. Though NHAI claimed that safety measures had been in place to alert over-speeding drivers about sharp turns and gradient, the latest accident prompted the fresh NHAI inspection.
 
 An NHAI official said the NHAI’s state headquarters sent the team comprising transport and safety experts to independently check the spot. The team will spend more time if required to gather additional details. Experts would also seek details from the highway police, the official added.
 
 Frequent travellers on the Satara-Pune highway stretch observed that the S-shaped turn was a bit risky because of its steep gradient and sharp turns. Some drivers stressed vehicles gained speed in the tunnel and they often faced challenges in negotiating the two sharp turns after it. There were demands to remove the S-shaped turn to make the stretch safer.
 
 The NHAI officials claimed that they would implement the measures recommended by the experts’ team. They have started painting the rumble strips after the tunnel to alert drivers about the turns. There is a plan to put up more signage at the accident-prone spot.
 
 “We have started painting the strips before and at the vulnerable spots. There is also a plan to install more signage to alert drivers,” another NHAI official said.
 
 “The stretch had two lanes earlier. An additional lane was added a few years ago. Now, the road after the tunnel has three lanes. The drivers are expected to maintain a speed of 50kmph to 60kmph in the tunnel,” the official said.
 
 
