GUWAHATI: Chief minister   on Saturday inaugurated the   (NSE) Investor Fair, 2018 and urged the investors to take advantage of Assam's resurgent business environment.

 Giving a clarion call to investors to cash in on the business-friendly atmosphere created in the state, the chief minister highlighted the major infrastructural transformation initiatives undertaken by the state government. "By expanding Guwahati into a State Capital Region (SCR), building an industrial corridor upto Tihu in lower Assam's Nalbari district and constructing twin World Trade Centre towers of 65 floors each in Guwahati, we would make Assam one of the major investor-friendly states of the country in the coming years," he said.
 
 The CM added, "Assam has a unique advantage of being situated at a strategic geographic location, making it an ideal destination for running business in the entire southeast Asian region. Our government is committed to encouraging entrepreneurs 
 
 for venturing out into this huge market in ASEAN countries and bring economic transformation in this part of the country." He said the recent approval of the central government to North-East Industrial Development Scheme (NEIDS), 2017 would provide lots of incentives to business houses for investing in the northeast.
 
 Lauding Prime Minister Narendra Modi's efforts to put Assam and the northeast at the heart of Act  , Sonowal said Modi's initiatives have resulted in rapid economic development of the region. "The Global Investors' Summit, Advantage Assam, has successfully portrayed the state as a major investment destination at the world stage and a lot of investors have evinced interest in setting up their businesses here. NSE Investor Fair would give exposure to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the state to gain insight about the capital market and provide them a road map to take confident steps towards growth," he added.
 
 Highlighting the state government's efforts to provide momentum to economic activities in different sectors, Sonowal said formulating policies such as The   Up Policy, 2017, Information Technology and Electronic Policy, 2017, Handloom Policy, 2017-18, Sugar Policy, 2018, Biotechnology Policy, 2018, Tourism Policy, 2017 and Solar Policy, 2018 would help in transforming the state into a competitive destination for investments.
 
 MD and CEO of NSE, Vikram Limaye, said the NSE Investor Fair is a unique platform to strengthen bonds with communities from across the country. He added that the fair explains how students, professionals, investors and entrepreneurs can grow in their profession lives.
 
 Chairman of the Assam Chamber of Commerce,  , said the event is essential, especially for the growth of the SME sector of the northeast.
 
