Instead of obsessing about automation related job elimination, the focus should be on making   adaptable for an uncertain future, writes educator  

 Families traditionally use the post-Board examination hiatus to help children prepare for college and beyond. How should we prepare Generation Z, born between 1995-2005, so that they are future-ready?
 
 At my children's school pick-up recently, there was an animated conversation about the futility of taking speed-math or language classes when machines are overtaking us in speed and accuracy. Talking to a friend in the US that same night, I learnt of her decision to home school her children aged 8-14 years, so they could pursue their interests: an online antique coin business, sketching with emotional intelligence, and social media influencing.
 
 On the one hand, we face fears of automation eliminating jobs as we know them. Alibaba founder Jack Ma has pronounced, "Teachers must stop teaching knowledge. We have to teach something unique so that the machine can never catch up with us." To offer some consolation, an Economist report concludes that human obsolescence in the workplace will take anywhere between 100-200 years.
 
 
 
 
 Technology has become a must-invest skill to prepare for the changing workplace: witness, for instance, the mushrooming of coding and robotics classes in the past three years. However, we need to fundamentally reimagine our conception of work as well. Employees of the future will have to be adept at managing machines and people, be rigorous and innovative in researching for the future, need to see patterns in huge amounts of data, and find fulfilling ways of utilising the greater leisure time generated by automation.
 
  
  
  
 
 Instead of obsessing about automation-related job elimination, why not focus on making Gen Z productive and adaptable for an uncertain and dynamic future? Here are some enduring, transferable skills that might be worth building:
 
 
 The massive data unleashed by automation would require a keen 'big picture' awareness. Gen Z could hone critical thinking and complex problem-solving through activities such as hackathons. They could also develop a continuous learning mind-set and connect theory to practice by participating in more hands-on experiences such as internships.
 
 We need to equip the next generation of employees with the ability to question and analyse technology developments through a philosophical and ethical lens. They will need to grapple with questions such as: Does placing decision-making with machines (for example, in driverless cars) conform with acceptable human code of conduct? Gen Z will bear the burden of ensuring that humanity is still at the centre of full automation.
 
 
 The world is not just flat; it is 3-D, augmented, and virtual. Technology is connecting countries and continents, personal and professional spaces, real and digital existence. Gen Z, growing up playing with AR (augmented reality) and VR (virtual reality) through devices such as Xbox, will now need to reimagine work and living environments as consumers and creators, employees and managers. Along with the technical skills needed for AI (artificial intelligence), AR, and VR research and implementation, we need to nurture art, design, music, and language skills that will connect diverse spaces in compelling and innovative ways.
 
 
 Soft skills such as persuasive communication and authenticity through story-telling will also be important, given the hold that social influencers continue to have on our market trends and product development. Even though Gen Z-ers are adept in virtual worlds, they often struggle with 'real' communication and treat diverse channels of communication with the same degree of informality. This creates an opportunity for them to learn content generation across diverse (real and digital) channels, focusing on the right register and tone.
 
 
 Robots cannot (yet) use multisensory stimuli to make emotional connections - Alexa or Siri's off-the-mark, repetitive humour being a case in point. To balance Gen Z's digital dependency, we should continue to provide them opportunities to develop empathy, for instance, by involving them in community projects. Indeed, the top 10 skills list from a 2016 World Economic Forum report includes people management, coordinating with others, and emotional intelligence. These will be particularly important in a multi-generational workplace skewed to youth and machines.
 
 Gen Z has knowledge readily available at their fingertips and voice commands, spouted and organised by machines. As Ma cautions, we must be proactive in thinking beyond knowledge and becoming futureready. The student's questioning of speed-math classes and my friend's blending of technology and creativity in child-rearing seems to be a step in the right direction. Whatever be their passions and beliefs, it is important to encourage Generation Z to be fearless in exploring and enhancing their area(s) of expertise, to question default modes and think in non-linear ways, and to communicate their ideas with passion as well as compassion. Such an approach will help them become flexible and innovative enough to adapt to the rapid changes that are surely coming their way, during this summer break and beyond.
 
 
 
 
