MUMBAI: The   is pulling out all the stops to make the party’s Foundation Day rally in BKC on Friday a show of strength.

 BJP chief  , chief minister Devendra   and Union minister Nitin Gadkari will address the rally in the afternoon. Around 3 lakh workers from across the state are expected to attend. Shah will meet the press after the rally and later convene a meeting with party MLAs, MLCs and MPs.
 
 Political observers said the rally, a stone’s throw away from   chief Uddhav Thackeray’s residence, will help enthuse cadres ahead of the 2019 general election and the state polls.
 
 Ahead of the event on Thursday, BJP workers took out a bike rally, which threw   in the city out of gear. Bikers participated in the rally from the airport to BKC where Shah will stay for a day.
 
 A total of 50,000 vehicles, including cars, trucks and private buses, are expected to enter Mumbai with BJP supporters for Friday’s event, sources said. Workers will arrive in 28 long-distance trains and will be ferried by buses to the venue. While the BJP is geared up to celebrate its 38th anniversary in Mumbai, the party faces several challenges in the run-up to 2019.
 
 Although ensconced in office for over four years in Maharashtra, the BJP has both administrative and organizational issues to resolve. While Fadnavis continues to stay a step ahead of his Congress-NCP rivals, he seems guided chiefly by the survival instinct, which leaves little scope for planning and effective implementation.
 
 Known as ‘Mr Teflon’, Fadnavis has had to face flak from the Opposition following controversies triggered by cabinet colleagues such as Prakash Mehta and Pankaja Munde. Also, the number of BJP mantris who put their foot in their mouth is no less.
 
 “Devendraji has ample political savvy to keep the opposition at bay, but his energies are largely squandered in streamlining the administration,’’ said a BJP MLA. The Bhima-Koregaon row, the Dharma Patil suicide and the latest Dalit atrocities law controversy could upset BJP’s gameplan to sew up a broad caste alliance, said party watchers. Worse, Matoshree continues to breath down the CM’s neck and countless BJP workers think that this shows their party in bad light. ‘’The Sena strategy to keep the Fadnavis ministry on tenterhooks by unleashing Saaamna on the BJP doesn’t augur well for us. The popular impression is that the CM is giving too long a rope to the Sena which has already announced that it would go solo for the next election,’’ said a BJP veteran. However, pragmatism will prompt Fadnavis to woo Matoshree, sources said. The BJP can’t afford to take on a combined Congress-NCP-Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (led by  , the farmers’ leader) alliance by itself. “Whatever may the Sena claim, we will have to ink a poll pact with them if we wish to keep the Congress-NCP combine away from power,’’ he said.
 
