JAIPUR: Adeepur village in   that recorded zero literacy for women in 2011 census report has seen zero girl drop outs in its primary school in 2017-18 academic year.

 
 Tehsils like Ramgarh, Tijara, Kishangarhbas and Laxmangarh in Alwar, are predominated by Meo  , who are considered the most  .
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
  The literacy rates of women in all these tehsils was above 30%, has over 100 schools where enrolment of girls is at par with boys. The construction of toilets, classrooms, boundary walls, labs by government and contribution made by the Meos and private donors is changing the fate of this community.
 
 Government Schools in Jatpur, Bahala and Mahuakhurd, Kakrali Meo, Dadar, Dewakri, Kesroli, Chorati Pahad, Salpur, Dhondpur, Jhareda, Kemala, Geholi, Mirzapur and Birsangpur to name a few has 50% and above girls enrolled for 2017-18 against up to 20% share of girls in 2012.
 
 A senior secondary school in Jatpur had 98 students, including 37 girls in 2015. “At present it has 282 students, including 153 girls. In the last four years, Meo Muslims and donors contributed 40 lakh rupees. The money was spent on science and computer labs, constructing a hall, drinking water facility, leveling the ground, main gate and boundary walls. This is the only village which doesn't have a single student out of school in the age group of six to14,” said Noor Mohammed, a Meo Muslim who left his government job to work for the upliftment of his community.
 
 He attributed the change to the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan campaign by the government of India and said it has helped construction of toilets in all schools. “The next step was to encourage community to create separate washrooms and drinking water facility to instil a sense of security among parents and girls. Also, door to door campaign to find out drop outs or children yet to be enrolled in school in the age group of six to 14 years have helped in filling up seats in schools,” said Mohammed, of Alwar Mewat Institute of Education and Development (AMIED) which runs several outreach programs.
 
 Niti Ayog declared Mewat district in Haryana as the most inspirational (backward) district in the country in 2017. They were found backward in all parameters—education, health, per capita income, land holding, employability, household etc. by the Niti ayog.
 
