Guntur: Stating that chief minister Chandrababu Naidu’s selfish attitude has pushed the state into a precarious position, YSRC chief YS Jaganmohan Reddy has said that the CM’s hurried visit to New Delhi aimed as saving the latter from action in the multiple scandals that took place in the last four years. He said Naidu has always placed his personal interests ahead of the state.

 He alleged Naidu's Delhi visit was not to fight for Special Category Status (SCS). Addressing a massive crowd at Maya Bazar Junction in the city on Tuesday,   said Naidu's drama of lies and falsehood had reached its climax and the people would script the final chapter of this saga by not supporting Naidu any more. Jagan wondered how Naidu reached New Delhi without spelling out his stance on the indefinite fast launched by YSRC MPs. He reiterated that his MPs will quit Parliament on the last day of the budget session and begin an indefinite fast demanding SCS.
 
 “We have requested Chandrababu Naidu to join hands with us. The will take note if scores of MPs quitting the Lok Sabha. Naidu has refused to ask his MPs to quit Lok Sabha as he is not committed to the cause,” Jagan thundered.
 
 Jagan said Naidu paid no heed to their continuous pleas on the issue of SCS as his intention has always been to wriggle out of the charges that he has been facing. He alleged that the CM had gone to Delhi only to save his skin as there is no convincing reason for his visit.
 
 He said the chief minister had opposed SCS for the last four years and took a sudden U-turn only after YSRC gave a no-trust motion against the Centre and sought support from the leaders of all political parties. He said TDP would not have moved the no-trust motion had YSRC not started the movement in New Delhi.
 
 Jagan said corruption has been rampant in the TDP government at all levels, with Naidu himself taking kickbacks. Striking a cord with the local people, Jagan said the incompetent administration headed by Naidu is responsible for the loss of 20 lives due to the spread of diarrhea in One Town area of Guntur city. He said that the incomplete underground drainage works and malfunctioning drinking water system resulted in the spread of the disease.
 
 “How can Naidu build a world class capital, when he cannot manage the drinking water system in a city like Guntu,” he said. 
 
 
