Ludhiana: The   government’s last Budget may not have gone down well with the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector, but Punjab’s big business houses are all praise for Prime Minister   and finance minister   for refraining from announcing a populist Budget. The corporates say this is a shift from usual politics as the government did not fall victim to criticism from various quarters for whom no relief has been announced. 

 Prominent businessmen from all the sectors, including textile, bicycle and garment, have applauded finance minister’s announcement on uplift of the poor and farmers. They said the poor would be benefited by schemes, like free electricity to four crore households and eight crore free gas connections under  , among others. 
 
 Even as some of the businessmen were of the view that there was nothing in the Budget for the corporate sector, others said the government has not taken any harsh steps for the industry or imposed new taxes, except hiking cess on income tax marginally by 1%. They have lauded the finance minister’s decision to reduce 5% corporate tax for the companies with a turnover up to Rs 250 crore.
 
 However, there was confusion over allocation of Rs 7,148 crore for textile sector for 2018-19, as industrialists are not clear whether it is enhancement of the Rs 6,000-crore package announced last year or a separate one. 
 
 Terming the Budget growth-oriented, the corporate sector was of the view that besides benefiting industry indirectly, it will usher in new era of development for the country and boost the economy. 
 
 Photo quotes
 
 ‘This is people’s Budget’
 
 This is a good budget. The government has laid stress on progress of farmers and the poor. It is not a populist budget but a progressive one. Besides giving importance to agriculture and healthcare, the government has announced benefits for the infrastructure sector, too. 
 
 SP Oswal
 
 Chairman of Vardhman Textiles
 
 The budget is growth oriented and good for the country, the common man, farmers and industry. The steps taken by the government will go a long way in benefiting the poor. This is people’s Budget. 
 
 Jawahar Lal Oswal, 
 
 Chairman and managing director of Nahar Group of Companies
 
 Though there is nothing for the large industries in the Budget, the Union government has announced much for the common man, especially the poor, like free gas connections and electricity. These decisions will help in the overall development of the country.
 
 Komal Jain
 
 Chairman of Duke Fashions 
 
 It is good from the point of view of agriculturists and the common man, though there is nothing for the corporates. The government should have done something for the manpower-intensive and export-oriented units. Moreover, there is no clarity over allocation of Rs 7,148 crore for textile industry. But we are happy that drastic steps have been taken for the poor, women and farmers. 
 
 Neeraj Saluja 
 
 Managing director of SEL Manufacturing 
 
 It is a very progressive Budget, results of which will be visible in the coming days. There is something for everyone, like reduction of 5% in corporate tax for turnover of up to Rs 250 crore, reduction of EPF to 8% in case of new women employees, relief to salaried employees by standard deduction of Rs 40,000. Much has been done for the senior citizens as well. All the sectors, especially healthcare, infrastructure and education, will benefit from it.
 
 Onkar Singh Pahwa
 
 Chairman and managing director of Avon Cycles Limited
 
 
