CHENNAI: Merely because a person who fell down from   and got killed on the tracks did not have a ticket on him, he could not be dubbed a ticketless   and denied due compensation, ruled the  . Slamming Railway Claims Tribunal in Chennai for arriving at such a faulty conclusion, the court directed the tribunal to take up the hearing and fix quantum of   payable to the kin of a man who was thrown off the train between Kodambakkam and Nungambakkam stations and got killed in July 2013.

 Justice M Duraiswamy, who heard the appeals filed by the victim’s kin Maurice K Lai and Esther Lai, also asked the tribunal to wind up the proceedings in three months.
 
 It was on July 31, 2013, that Mathew Lai lost his life while travelling in a suburban train in Chennai. Due to sudden jerk of the train, he accidentally fell down and died. His kin moved the tribunal claiming Rs 4 lakh compensation.
 
 Railways opposed the claim saying the deceased was not a bona fide passenger as he did not have any ticket on his person at the time of the accident. Agreeing with the contention, the tribunal dismissed the claim petition. Assailing the ruling, the present appeal was filed in the HC.
 
 The appellants’ counsel, Sanjay Pinto, citing a catena of high court and the Supreme Court verdicts governing the issue, submitted that non-production of the train ticket could not be fatal to the claims, and that the burden of proving that the victim was not a bona fide passenger lay with the railways.
 
 Concurring with his submissions, Justice Duraiswamy said if a restrictive meaning was taken for the term ‘accidental fall of a passenger from a train’, it would deprive a large number of railway passengers their due compensation in case of railway accidents. Courts had earlier held that as per Section 124-A of the Railways Act, 1989, a passenger, to be treated as a bona fide passenger, need not possess a valid ticket. Also, liability to pay compensation by railways in case of an untoward incident cannot be disputed in such a case, and dependents of the victim were entitled to compensation.
 
 Courts had also held that when a person dies in an accident by falling off from train, it would not be possible for his legal representatives to produce the ticket or valid authority to travel in the train. Standard proof beyond reasonable doubt could not be applied in such cases, courts said, adding that claimants had to merely establish their case on the touchstone of preponderance of probability. 
 
 
