CHENNAI: In February 2016, Hindu   near Avadi on Chennai’s western fringe ran out of tickets. The facility is a halt station, those in erstwhile villages or small towns with low footfalls, where a contractor sits and issues cardboard tickets of which he has a limited supply. The usual infrastructure for issuing tickets, known as unreserved ticketing system, has not been installed in these stations.

 
 Ticket shortage has been a recurring issue and irate commuters, asked to buy `10 tickets (meant for longer distances) as the `5 tickets (which the commuter would require) would run out, stopped trains. Stations where passengers do not get tickets are not few, there are 30 halt stations across Chennai and 166 across TN and Kerala running out of tickets.
 
 
  
 
 But this is unlikely to continue for long as the   has planned to introduce hand-held ticketing machines. A trial was conducted in 12 such halt stations in the two states, including   and Puliyamangalam near Chennai. The halt stations will be linked to the railway ticketing network through a hand-held terminal. The recommendations will be sent to the railway board this week for implementation across India.
 
 During the trial, halt stations were divided into three categories based on daily ticket sales: Less than 300, between 300-1,000 and above 1,000. A total of 128 stations, including 13 in Chennai, fall in the first category, 15 in the second and 12, all in Chennai, in the third.
 
 For stations selling less than 300 tickets, Southern Railway has recommended that the cardboard tickets should be done away with and paper tickets should be printed from the nearest ‘depot’ station which has the ticketing infrastructure.
 
 “These cardboard tickets are printed at the railway presses in Royapuram and   and are slowly being phased out,” a senior railway officer said.
 
 For stations in the second category, railways has recommended that the station should be linked with the ticketing software through a terminal. It would be like a Jan Sadharan Ticket Booking Seva, a railway contractor with access to the software. Officials are also working to introduce a hand-held terminal like in buses from which the ticket can be issued. This would eliminate shortage of tickets and commuters need not take a trip to the nearest depot station to buy season tickets, the official said.
 
 For instance, at big halt stations like   near Avadi and   near Ambattur, season tickets from Chennai to their location are unavailable. For this, commuters have to travel to   and buy a ticket, which could now be avoided, the official said. This would ensure the distribution of crowd to the smaller stations, he added.
 
 “Contractors are ready to invest on the linkage between their terminal and the railway software. For halt stations in remote locations, connectivity will be an issue, but in Chennai’s suburbs it shouldn’t be a problem,” the official said.
 
 For stations selling more than 1,000 tickets, railways is likely to recommend that they be upgraded, which means Railway will have to create ticket counters, other related infrastructure and deploy staff.
 
 
