JAIPUR: A study conducted by city-based pulmonologists revealed that 77% of the patients participating in a survey could not relate to the word “asthma” and claimed that they were suffering from something like “dama”, “swas”, “khansi” or “zukam”. It creates confusion as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), tuberculosis (TB) and interstitial lung disease (ILD) patients also take these names to describe their diseases.

 The city-based study ‘Respiratory disease terminology: Discordance between pulmonologists and patients’ has been published in Lung India’ journal. It revealed that 60.3% pulmonologists told the exact terminology of the disease to their patients. However, around 39.7% communicated name of the disease in non-standard terminology or in local language. The study says, only 17.6% patients communicated the exact terminology of the disease in the study.
 
 Besides, it expresses that knowledge of proper disease terminology forms the basis of understanding on the part of patient and is needed to ensure regular compliance with treatment to avoid fatal complications.
 
 “A doctor translates his knowledge, which was acquired in English, in local dialect to explain it properly to the patients. This process of translation has many fallacies and exact terminology of the disease may be changed. When the name of the disease is not effectively communicated, it causes ambiguity for a new doctor who treats the patient for the first time, especially if the doctor’s understanding of the local terminology is also vague,” the study says, while explaining the necessary of calling the disease with its medical name.
 
 The study was conducted by Dr   of   and Tuberculosis, SMS Medical College, Dr   of a private hospital, Dr   of a private hospital and Dr  , former superintendent of SMS Hospital.
 
 Dr Virendra Singh, one of the contributors to the study said, “Correct names of diseases help in better treatment of the patients. Also, a particular disease should not be called with different names. The study concludes that communication gap exists between pulmonologists and patients regarding use and understanding of the terminology of the disease. It is thus imperative to communicate the proper name of the disease and to motivate patients to use the exact name of disease during communication.”
 
 Besides, the study added that patient should be educated about the proper name during regular visits and through patient education programmes as well.
 
 
