India may have low   rates as compared to western nations but it accounts for among the highest premature and avoidable deaths due to the disease. A study published last week states India and Brics colleagues Brazil, Russia, China and   lose tens of billions of dollars in lost productivity due to cancer deaths.

 Everyone’s work contributes to the economy, and not working represents a loss to society. Starting here, a study was undertaken as part of the European Short- Term Scientific Mission to assess the loss of productivity in Brics countries on account of cancer. It found that India recorded a total productivity loss of $6.7 billion in 2012 due to cancer, representing 0.36% of the GDP that year. This was second only to South Africa’s, which recorded a loss of $1.9 billion, amounting to almost 0.5% of its GDP.
 
 The productivity lost per death in India was under $20,000 — the lowest among Brics countries. The greatest total productivity losses in — $0.74 billion — could be attributed to tobacco-related lip and oral cancers. Cancer claims seven lakh lives every year across India, with another 10 lakh new cases detected annually. “The use of smokeless tobacco, often combined with betel quid, can be attributed to almost 50% of oral cavity cancers in India. Lip and oral cancers dominate lost productivity in India due to the relatively high prevalence of chewing tobacco. We know that tobacco results in healthcare costs of up to Rs 100,000 crore annually,” said Dr  , professor of head and neck cancer at   in Mumbai.
 
 The loss of productivity in Brics economies due to cancer-related premature mortality is considerable in total cost terms — $46.3 billion, which represents 0.33% of their combined GDP. Many of the cancers that result in deaths in the Brics countries are “amenable to prevention, early detection or treatment”, found the study. Experts say India should focus on early detection of cancer; treatment costs and survival rates are better when cancer is treated in early stages.
 
