VISAKHAPATNAM: Tuesday’s   mishap has proved that no lessons were learnt from last year’s   boat tragedy in which 21 people were killed.

 The state government had issued a Government Order (GO 667) on November 16, three days after the Ibrahimpatnam mishap took place, specifying a list of detailed guidelines on operating boats in the state.
 
 However, Tuesday’s mishap shows that the government order has not been implemented at the ground-level. The GO issued by the irrigation department said a committee should be formed with officials from revenue, police, water resources, fire services, tourism and fisheries departments to inspect all boating services.
 
 The GO added that irrigation executive engineers who have given licenses to the boat operators should submit the list of licenses to the committee. A safety certificate would be issued after thorough inspection of the boats by the committee, and the boats will finally be allowed to ply only after getting a satisfaction certificate from the district collector.
 
 The GO mandated   of life jackets to all passengers and life-buoys for every five passengers in the boat. The GO also sought setting up of control rooms at all ferry points with officials from police, water resource and tourism departments. These officials would be responsible for checking each boat and ensuring that it met all safety parameters. The control rooms would be in charge of giving clearance for departures and would also maintain a log book. Stationary SDRF teams would be positioned in adequate numbers for immediate deployment in case of emergencies, according to the GO. 
 
 On the other hand, officials who were found to be colluding with the boat operators in the Ibrahimpatnam boat mishap are yet to be brought to book. Though the government said that there would be criminal action against errant officials who have colluded with the Ibrahimpatnam boat operators, nothing has happened ever since. The employees were suspended for a while and were reinstated in service after two months.
 
 
