Puducherry: A   government employee in Puducherry, who accused her senior officer of sexually harassing her, charged that a top woman government   from Tamil Nadu pressurised her husband to convince her to withdraw the   she lodged against her senior officer. 

 Her husband is a veterinary assistant surgeon in Tamil Nadu animal husbandry department and a subordinate to the woman official.
 
 The victim in her complaint to the district-level complaints’ committee (DLCC) said the TN government woman official gave a letter to her husband and insisted him to convince her (victim) to sign it and submit it to lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi. 
 
 The letter said that she declares to withdraw the complaint against animal husbandry and animal welfare director P Padmanabhan as she had filed the complaint due to mental disturbance and agony after seeing her transfer order to Karaikal.
 
 “I submit to state that I made a complaint against Dr P Padmanabhan, director of animal husbandry and animal welfare department, Puducherry, due to my mental disturbances and agony after seeing my transfer order to Karaikal region. Now, I withdraw my complaint against Dr P Padmanabhan, director of animal husbandry,” the letter said.
 
 The victim said she and her husband refused to pay heed to the ‘advice’ of the TN government official. She furnished a copy of the letter along with her complaint.
 
 Meanwhile, the woman, who alleged that she has been receiving death threats from different quarters, lodged a complaint with Reddiarpalayam police on Friday charging that two men waylaid her near her house and threatened that they will kill her and her husband if she did not withdraw the complaint against Padmanabhan. 
 
 Police have registered a case against two unidentified people under Sections 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 506 (2) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC and launched investigations.
 
 Lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi on Thursday directed chief secretary Ashwani Kumar to relieve Padmanabhan of his duties after the DLCC probing   harassment charges against him submitted an interim report to her. She directed the senior superintendent of police (law and order) Apoorva Gupta to conduct a probe based on a complaint lodged by the woman against Padmanabhan on April 18 and to register a case. She also directed the secretary (law) G Sendil Kumar to initiate efforts in clearing the stay granted by the Madras high court on the inquiry launched by the DLCC against Padmanabhan. She directed the DLCC to probe all fresh complaints lodged by other woman employees against Padmanabhan. 
 
 
