Though today Coimbatore is known as a hub for industry and education, it had another facet between the 1960s and 1980s — the city was a hub for   troupes. After the amateur theatre scene flourished and became a fixture in Chennai in the 1950s, the trend caught up in Coimbatore too. During theatre’s heyday, the city had around 20 amateur drama troupes, say theatre actors. 

 The trend started in the city around 1965, says city-based theatre veteran K S Krishnan, who started KRS drama troupe in 1967. "A makeup artist called Gopal Raj started a group called Stage Services, through which he conducted drama festivals. He would hold the festival in July or August every year and showcase almost all the troupes in the city," says Krishnan. The festival had lecturers, writers and auditors as the jury and rolling trophies were given to winning troupes. Along with this, mills and industries in the city also had their own theatre troupes, he adds.
 
 But today, only a handful of amateur theatre troupes in the city are active. One of the main reasons for the decline in the number of troupes is the decrease in affordable performance spaces, say theatre artistes. "Earlier, troupes used to perform in Shanmugha theatre at the flower market. The theatre complex had a drama hall below and a cinema hall above," says Krishnan.
 
 R Thyagarajan, 57, who runs Kovai Kathiravan Nadaga Kalai Kuzhu, says spaces such as the corporation kalaiarangam (auditorium), which used to be a haven for amateur theatre troupes, have also raised their fares. "Amateur troupes, which spend from their pocket to stage plays, cannot afford to rent the hall now," he says. K Jagan of Kalalayam Drama Troupe concurs: "The main reason for the decline in the theatre scene is the lack of performance spaces. Theatre can flourish only if there is proper support for amateur troupes in terms of performance spaces." 
 
 Responding to this, a corporation official said that if theatre troupes make a representation to the corporation, based on the theme of their play, there is provision to rent the kalaiarangam out to them at concessional rates. "But no troupe has approached us till now," he said.
 
 Artists say, while the entry of television sets into households in the late 1970s fragmented theatre-going audience, the advent of the internet and other alternate forms of entertainment in the later decades led to the decline of amateur theatre troupes. The audience base that lived in the city has today moved to other cities for work and a new generation of theatre audience has not formed as they have other sources of entertainment to fall back on, artists say.
 
 For the past 10 years, troupes from Coimbatore have been regularly travelling to Thanjavur, Trichy, and Madurai to stage plays as the atmosphere in such places is still encouraging for amateur theatre troupes, say artists.
 
 The decline in amateur theatre groups has also taken a toll on makeup artists and backdrop makers. "When the theatre scene started disintegrating, make up, costume and backdrop workers took up odd jobs such as tailoring or working as waiters in hotels," says Kovai Babu, 60, who runs a costume company in the city. When amateur troupes ruled the day, there would be at least two to three orders daily for stage backdrops, Babu says. Today, they get orders only once in three months or during school annual days.
 
 But there is still hope as amateur theatre troupes have a niche audience that has helped keep the show going. Jagan says that though the generation that came after the 1970s have moved away from watching dramas, there is still a following.
 
 R Ganesh Kumar, a 54-year-old jeweller is one such audience who has been a staunch theatre fan for the past 30 years. "Though there are other entertainment options such as television, the thrill one gets while witnessing a live performance is unmatchable," he says. "Today, not many performances happen in the city, and that is a regret for people like us," he adds.
 
 
