Trichy: Confusion over issuing acknowledgement receipt for the applications for   scheme led to a heated arguments between the applicants and the officials of Trichy Corporation at the zonal office in Golden Rock here on Friday. The issue was brought to a temporary close after higher officials intervened. 

 Since the scheme was open for the public a week ago, applications from working women were pouring in at the designated offices of Trichy corporations in the city. On Friday, the applicants who visited the Golden Rock zonal office of Trichy Corporation encountered an issue with the officials refusing to issue acknowledgement receipt. The improper reply without valid reason added to their confusion. 
 
 “The acknowledgement receipt is part of the application. They should be returned to the applicant at the time of submission of the filled-in application. Neither did they provide the receipt nor did they give us any convincing reply,” said M K Fathima, a call centre employee, after waiting for more than an hour.
 
 The father of an applicant Malaiarasan from Prakash Nagar was exhausted after waiting for more than two hours to submit the applications. Yet, the officials turned down his request to accept his daughter’s application citing her absence at the office today. 
 
 “It is mandatory to give acknowledgement receipt to all the applicants otherwise we cannot have a proof. When I questioned them, they made me wait for a long time. Finally, they refused to accept the application saying that my daughter should be present. If they doubt the credibility, they can easily find out during the verification,” said Malaiarasan.
 
 Citing that the practice of providing acknowledgement was going on in other zones, the applicants stay put at the Golden Rock office. 
 
 On getting the information, assistant commissioner (AC) of Golden Rock zonal office M Dayanidhi asked the corporation staff to provide a temporary acknowledgement but he made it clear that the acknowledgement should be given at the time of field verification only. 
 
 “During the field verification, the officers will verify the veracity of the documents and will ask for required document after which they will issue the acknowledgement receipt. We have been advised to follow the procedure. So, the people can wait till the field verification,” AC Dayanidhi told ToI this evening.
 
 
