Thiruvananthapuram As  , which connects the capital with other cities via NH, reels under traffic snarls the municipality has proposed shifting of the private bus stand here to Mamam.

  M Pradeep, chairman of Attingal municipality, has sent a communication to minister for agriculture proposing to shift the stand to the 5.5-acre coconut complex compound at Mamam. It is run by the Kerala state coconut development corporation. 
 
 Attingal is notorious for traffic congestion, which worsens during peak hours, and crossing the junction for a commuter traversing along Kazhakkoottam-Cherthala NH stretch has always been a nightmare. Even with police imposing one-way traffic from KSRTC bus stand to Kacheripadi Junction, frequent entry and exit of private buses stalls the traffic on either side of the private bus stand. 
 
 The coconut complex has been ridden with troubles and has been dysfunctional for a while. According to Attingal municipality chairman M Pradeep, it was in early 1979 that the municipality gave 5.5 acres to Kerala State Coconut Development Corporation to establish the complex without taking any payment from them. 
 
 “The private bus stand was constructed in 1957 to park 20 buses, but now there are around 200 buses which use the stand. The congested stand poses safety threats to pedestrians. Also, commuters who wait for buses find it difficult to board the vehicles.
 
 Although one-way traffic is implemented during rush hours on Attingal-Chirayinkeezhu road and Kacheripadi-KSRTC stand road, both the roads witness traffic blocks owing to entry and exit of private buses as the vehicles have to queue up to collect and to drop the passengers. Shifting of the private bus stand is crucial to solve the issue of traffic snarls in this area,” said Pradeep.
 
 The municipality has also included the proposal on shifting of private bus stand to Mamom in the master plan being prepared by the department of town and country planning. 
 
 The plan is to integrate this proposal with the Attingal bypass project, which will begin from Kaduvapalli and join the national highway at Mamom. Notification is also being awaited on the project for widening Kadampattukonam-Kazhakkoottam corridor, which will be executed as part of Cherthala-Kazhakkoottam project. 
 
 “For the past few years the coconut complex has remained closed due to various reasons. We are only asking for half of the property, but so far we have not received any response from the department minister as well as the MLA,” said Pradeep. 
 
 Meanwhile, Kerala coconut development corporation seems to have different plans for the complex. 
 
 “The virgin coconut oil plant is awaiting clearance from Attingal municipality. Besides, we have plans to begin various value addition units. The proposal to shift bus stand to Mamom has not come to our notice,” said Baiju S Simon, general manager in charge, Kerala coconut development corporation.
 
 
