PANAJI: With the state   just days away, Goa’s business community is hoping for the necessary impetus to industrial development through upgradation of all 24 industrial estates in the state. With critical infrastructure in industrial estates deteriorating rapidly, industry watchers hope that the government will provide sufficient funds for the necessary infrastructure upgradation.

 “The major recommendation is for investment into Goa industrial development corporation (GIDC) through grants, so that infrastructure in industrial estates can be improved,” said Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) president Sandip  .
 
  
  
 
 GCCI has asked the state government to completely replace the rusting galvanized iron water pipes that were laid decades ago, and has also urged the government to install the required power infrastructure so that industries in industrial estates can benefit from reliable power supply.
 
 “GIDC needs capital investment for putting up transformers and power lines,” Bhandare said. “Even the roads, because of heavy usage, are in a bad condition.”
 
 In line with the state government’s policy to promote information and technology in Goa, GCCI said that the optic fibre cable in the state and last mile connectivity needs to be upgraded, and that the state government should provide funds to improve internet broadband connectivity. “Our suggestion is that they should completely upgrade the optic fibre cable. Only then can Goa differentiate itself and attract IT companies to Goa,” Bhandare said.
 
 While GCCI has made direct recommendations for the industry and IT sector, the industry body has also asked the state government to focus on the quality of education imparted in the state. Specifically, GCCI has warned that the continuing disconnect between industry and academia could affect industrial growth and job prospects.
 
 “The government should have a relook at education because not only must a student be knowledgable, but he or she must also be employable,” Bhandare said.
 
 GCCI has also sought some benefits for the real estate sector. In its recommendations for the budget, GCCI has asked the government to utilize the infrastructure tax to setup water and electricity supply infrastructure for real estate projects.
 
 
