CHANDIGARH: After having given national toppers in the last year, the class XII results in Tricity failed to impress but nonetheless the students came out with flying colours in all four streams. The result of class XII was declared by   on Saturday declaring  ,18, a student of St Soldier's school Sector 28 in Chandigarh as tricity topper with 98.8% in the stream of Humanities. 

 
 Kush, a football enthusiast, said that he chose Humanities to be able to easily manage time for playing football along with preparing for class XII boards. He was also the sports captain of his school.
 
 Kush's father is an Assistant Manager in   and has always encouraged him to carry forward his love for football. He expressed his love for football but added, " I am currently undergoing a surgery so I doubt if I will be able to play football in the coming years." With his football interest coming to a stall for some time he told that he aims at getting admission into a college affiliated with   and pursue a degree in Journalism. Talking about his interest in journalism he says, "I want to pursue a course that deals with practicality and according to me journalism would provide me with the same. Also I want to do something to be able to highlight the problems of the society."
 
 While he devoted time for football, he missed out on his studies. To cover up the syllabus, he was helped by his teacher   and his friend Ayush to whom he owes the credit of his success. He says, " My English teacher Navita Rao helped me cover up the syllabus and provided me with the study material of all the subjects." he could resist talking about his friend Ayush with whom he studied for his examinations.
 
 Kush devoted 8-10 hours to his studies during exam days and wasn't really active on social media. He elaborates upon his success mantra saying, " I never took any pressure of studies. I just maintained calm during examinations and studied regularly and I think that has made all the difference." He also added that while preparing for board exams, clarity of concepts is a must.
 
 The toppers in other three streams- medical, nonmedical and commerce stream were students from Bhavan Vidyalaya Panchkula.
 
 With 97.8 percent, 17 year old Muskan Goel, topped Tricity in the commerce stream said, "Since my parents and sister is Chartered Accountant and they always supported me and inspired me to follow their footsteps, even I have decided to be a CA".
  
 Sharing his happiness her father   said that he always wanted her daughter to be a successful CA. "It's very important to stay focused throughout the session and be dedicated to achieve any goal," said Muskan.
 
 Aspiring to become a doctor  , topped tricity in medical stream with 97.6% score. She said she was expecting to score around 95 5 but the result came as pleasant surprise. "Topping Tricity is a cherry on the cake. I still cannot believe it." She says that she balanced her studies and all other activities which helped her score well. She deactivated her social media accounts but kept watching videos on youtube.
 
 She says that one should not expect too much from themselves.
 
 In Non medical Stream 17-year-old Pranav Goyal, again made his parents and school proud after he topped Tricity in non-medical stream with 97.2 percent marks.
 
 Pranav had bagged All India Rank (AIR) 4 in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) (Main) 2018 exam and had topped the Tricity in the exam. Son of a businessman, Pranav said that he was expecting good marks but never expected that he will top Tricity. Pranav says that one needs to stay focus during the preparation and should also indulge in other extra-curricular activities.
 
 Pranav's parents shared that he was always a bright student as in his class X board exams had scored 10 CGPA in class X. With this he also won the National Talent Search Examination and various scholarship programs and Olympiads
 
  
 
 
 
 School - St. Soldier School, Chandigarh
 
 Percentage-98.8
 
 Study Hours-7- 8 hours
 
 Success Mantra- regular studies and not taking exams as pressure
 
 Inspiration-  , school teacher
 
 Aim- Journalism Honours
 
 Hobbies- Playing soccer
 
 Parents- Father is a banker and mother is a housemaker
 
  
 
 
 School - Bhavan Vidyalaya Panchkula
 
 Percentage-97.8
 
 Study Hours-7-8 hours
 
 Success Mantra- Remain focused throughout the year
 
 Inspiration- Parents and teachers
 
 Aim- Chartered Accountant
 
 Hobbies- Playing chess, cooking and singing
 
 Parents- Chartered Accountant
 
 
 
 School - Bhavan Vidyalaya Panchkula
 
 Percentage-97.6
 
 Study Hours-5-6 
 
 Success Mantra- Do not expect too much, avoid taking stress
 
 Inspiration- scoring well
 
 Aim- Doctor
 
 Stress Buster- Listening English songs, playing badminton and cycling.
 
 Parents- Entrepreneurs
 
 
 
 School - Bhavan Vidyalaya Panchkula
 
 Percentage-97.2
 
 Study Hours-7- 8 hours
 
 Success Mantra- keeping stress free and balancing all activities and never give up attitude.
 
 Inspiration- Parents and brother
 
 Aim- IIT
 
 Hobbies- watching TV and reading
 
 Parents- Entrepreneurs
 
 
