In the six years since making her debut with critically acclaimed performance in 'Andala Rakshasi',   has carved a niche for herself as “Tollywood’s girl next door.” But doesn’t look like she likes that moniker too much. “Well, I don’t like to carry any tag. I believe, an actor should be like water and must be able to fit into any character. Nobody would like to get typecast, as that would mean you are getting predictable,” says the actress who has made Hyderabad her home now, having moved into her new pad in the plush locality of Jubilee Hills. In a freewheeling chat with Hyderabad Times, the 'Bhale Bhale Magadivoyi' actress takes stock of her cinematic journey and talks about what it takes for an actress to find a foothold in a hero driven industry where there aren’t many good roles written for the ladies, how she deals with the ups and downs in her career and why she is taking time to sign her next film. Excerpts: 

 
 (Smiles) I first came to Hyderabad for an ad shoot. I didn’t know that this city was so cool. So when the opportunity to do a Telugu film arose, I seized it. The industry has been very kind to me. Telugu film industry, in particular, has been very welcoming to outsiders. 
 And while I’d like to explore other industries, there’s a level of comfort I find here which is very special. I feel like this is my home ground!
 
 
 To be honest, I’m not a social butterfly and I don’t go to parties just so that I can be a part of certain circles. I’m quite comfortable in my own space. Yes, I host parties too and I’m good friends with some of the people from the industry, but I’m not the kind who would go to parties to build my social network.
 I started my career with a big hit and at that time, I didn’t even give much thought to my role or performance. Since then I’ve had a few ups and downs. When you have flops, you try to understand what went wrong. I think I’m in that phase right now and I’m trying to figure out where I’m going right or wrong. But then, an actor has to try different things to understand what they are good at. 
 
 
 
 I’m going to be more careful. I plan to be extremely choosy with the films that I have done. I did four films last year and all of them were commercial ones. So now I will take up different roles. Ultimately, my character has to be important. Sometimes, other factors like directors or cast of the film comes into play while choosing a script. 
 
 
 
 To be honest, there aren’t too many good roles that are being written for women. We cannot just sit at home and do nothing. Sometimes you have to respect the director’s wishes and go along with his vision for the film. Those who criticise us must understand that there aren’t too many strong roles for us and we have to try our level best to make the most of the roles given to us. 
 
 
 I get irritated whenever people mention ‘glamourous’ roles to me. I mean, we choose films according to the character. It’s a myth that glamour or skin show can get you success. Look at some of the young actresses like   or  . They have done well despite not doing these so-called glamourous roles. Take Raashi Khanna’s example too. She had done several glamourous roles in the past but it was her performance in 'Tholi Prema' that won her praise, and this is because she had a strong character in the film. 
 
 
 
 This is happening everywhere, not just in Tollywood. And this is not just restricted to films alone, there’s pay disparity in all walks of life. Having said that, in our industry, I feel sometimes that it’s fair because the heroes do have a lot more to do compared to the heroines. Also, there is are legions of fans who go to theatres only to watch the heroes, so naturally they generate a significant portion of the film’s revenue. To pay the hero more in such a situation would be justified. At the same time, there are also films like 'Bhaagamathie' coming up, where women play the lead role. So it’s not all bad. 
 
 
 
 As I said, I’m taking things slow. I had done too many movies last year and I want to give myself some time to think and breathe. My connect with the Telugu audience is special, and they’ve supported me since 'Andala Rakshasi'. So, it’s only a matter of time when I’ll be back on screen.
 
 
