NAGPUR: The city traffic police and   (RTO) on Tuesday launched a joint drive to crack down on autorickshaws plying without meter. On the very first day, the squad caught 125 autorickshaw drivers for violating the norm.

 The traffic police had made it mandatory for autorickshaws to ply by meter from January 2 last year, as they wanted to focus on all three major places — main railway station, Ajni railway station and MSRTC bus stop in  .
 
 Tuesday’s action was led by senior PI  , in-charge of Chamber-II. Apart from the traffic cops, two RTO officials too assisted during the drive. The cops concentrated only outside main railway station. 
 
 As there is a pre-paid booth at the railway station, the autorickshaw drivers too supported the cops. They were seen helping the squad to take action against three-wheelers plying without meter.
 
 TOI visited the railway station and found that the drive actually streamlined the chaotic traffic. However, the situation outside   bus stop was completely in contrast. Here, one could witness how haphazard parking of autorickshaws (who too do not ply by meters) block the traffic. 
 
 “Though the team concentrated on railway station on Tuesday, it will also focus on Central Bus Stand and Ajni railway station in the coming days,” said deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ravindrasinh Pardeshi.
 
 Pardeshi admitted that many autorickshaw drivers do not ply by meter or tariff card. “We have been receiving a number of complaints from the commuters,” he said, adding that his office will encourage the commuters to register complaints against such auto drivers.
 
 Autorickshaw unions have welcomed the drive. One of the leaders,  , said the cops should first ensure stopping illegal passengers’ vehicles which are being operated from different areas of the city.
 
 How to register a complaint
 
 Commuters can register their complaints by calling the police control room on 100 with details of the registration number of the autorickshaw. They can also lodge their complaints with different zones of the traffic branch by calling on 07104-237936 (Chamber-I), 2555100 (Chamber-II), 2706350 (Chamber-III), 2748816 (Chamber-IV) and 2654616 (Chamber-V).
 
 
