CHENNAI:   is planning to introduce suburban trains with 12-car rakes between Moore Market Complex suburban station and Avadi this month. This will help railways to accomodate an additional 3,400people per day on the line. 

 Around 11daily services will be operated between the stations on one of the busiest suburban line in the city - MMC/Beach-Tiruvallur section - which has a patronage of 3.9lakh commuters per day. 
 
 Southern   general manager R K Kulshreshtra said at a press conference to explain allocations for the zone in the budget that the new service were one among the many passenger-friendly initiatives the zone would be carrying out. He said that the 12car trains would be run like shuttle between MMC and Avadi. The 12car services would be an advantage for suburban commuters on the   because they suffer from overcrowding during peak hours. Now, nine car rakes are being used. 
  
  
 The move to increase in capacity comes at a time when suburban trains have started to see an increase in patronage due to hike in bus fare. He also said that “We are running 23special suburban trains and the number of trains can be augmented as per the demand in the future. 
 
 Kulshreshtra also said that “We will also introduce a 3-phase 12car EMU on Beach-Tambaram route next week,” he added. The 3-phase train made by ICF will have better passenger comfort and will have LED lights and passenger information system. 
 
 Southern Railway also be able to introduce more trains from four railway stations in the south - Kanyakumari, Nagercoil, Tuticorin and   - in three years as doubling and electrification work of the lines that connect these stations will be completed. He said that “The four stations will be developed into terminal stations with pitlines so that more trains can be started. Passenger amenities work will also be taken up. 
 
 The projects are doubling with electrification of Madurai-Vanchi Maniyachi-Tuticorin (160km) at an estimated cost of Rs1182.38crore, Vanchi Maniyachi-Tirunelveli-Nagercoil (102km) at Rs1003.94crore and Thiruvananthapuram-Kanya Kumari (86.56km) at Rs1431.90crore. 
 
 The deadline has been set though the Rs5,000crore worth projects received only Rs261crore budget allocation in 2018-19. 
 
 He also said that railways would start trains to Kollam from   as Sengottai-Kollam guage converted section will be opened for service soon. This will open up a second line connecting   and Kerala.
 
 eom/ayyap
 
 
