JAIPUR: Another gem from   ensured that   remain alive in the tournament, with a four-wicket win over   with just one ball to spare in a crucial IPL match against Chennai Super Kings here on Friday. 

 
 
 
 Faced with a 177-run chase, Buttler proved to be the royal among Royals, remaining unbeaten on 95, helped on the way with a missed chance by  . In fact, the Royals innings was about Buttler from start to finish. If his blitz at the start set up the stage for them, his six off Dwayne Bravo in the last over provided the finishing touch.
 
 Buttler launched his attack from the very first over of the innings, smashing David Willey for 13 runs. To add insult to injury, the Englishman smashed Harbhajan Singh for 14 in the very next. The platform had been erected for a lively chase, even though Ben Stokes was reduced to being a spectator.
 
 Stokes' poor run with bat continued when he was castled by Harbhajan, even though the angry jab from the bowler was aimed perhaps more at Buttler. Another opening pair for Royals had failed with Stokes contributing only 11 in the 48-run partnership.
 
 Skipper Ajinkya Rahane followed soon with a soft dismissal and the hosts were suddenly on the back foot. A suicidal run-out for Sanju Samson compounded their problems. CSK bowlers Shardul Thakur and Bravo applied the brakes in the middle overs and from then on, it was all up to Buttler. And did he deliver!
 
 Earlier, Raina once again was Chennai Super Kings’ Man Friday, scoring a brisk 52. Other smaller but significant contributions from Shane Watson, MS Dhoni and Sam Billings did add up to the challenging score of 176 for four. However, the innings lacked a hurricane that has become trademark with the CSK.
 
 Jofra Archer proved his worth for the Royals, dismissing both the CSK openers, albeit with 86 runs in between. If the Barbadian’s first-ball – inducing Ambati Rayudu to play on to his stumps – was supposed to be an indicator of things to come, it did not really serve its purpose.
 
 After Rayudu’s dismissal, next-in Raina threw his bat around. He targeted all parts of the ground as gaps seemed to open up rather easily.
 
 Even as Watson struggled to step on the pace, Raina made amends with some hard hits. Raina reached his half-century in quick time before misreading an Ish Sodhi back-of-the-hand delivery.
 
 A couple of overs earlier, Watson had departed after a sedate 39, miscuing Archer. The Australian veteran, playing at the SMS for the first time against the Royals, was strangely quiet. Apart from a couple of strong-arm tactics that fetched sixes, Watson did not really trouble Royals much.
 
 Having sent three prolific and destructive batsmen back, the Royals were understandably celebrating.
 
 
