CHENNAI: From the time she started her   in 2014, Angelin Prince has been distributing free food to homeless people. Over the years, she came across many people, especially   patients, with open sores and was determined to alleviate their suffering. Last Sunday, Angelin launched ‘Wound   On Wheels’, an initiative wherein she and her team will clean and dress the wounds of those living on the streets. 

 “We will be taking   materials like betadine, gauze, gloves and approach people in need of help. We will get their permission before we do the dressing,” says Angelin, director of The Candles that works in the field of mental and physical health. “Along with a couple of colleagues, I will be visiting areas between Purusawalkam and  ,” she says, adding that the team will start work from Friday and will be visiting the areas twice a week, as dressing needs to be changed.
 
 The Candles runs several projects, including awareness programmes on menstrual hygiene in schools and colleges across TN. As part of their project, Amudha Surabhi, the organisation gives health mix porridge to government school children. Feeding the homeless is part of their Share With Care programme. “We distribute food thrice a month in the areas between Anna Nagar and Broadway. We get parotta and kurma or idlis from hotels,” says Angelin. “Or our volunteers cook vegetable or tomato rice.”
 
 And that’s when they came across people on the streets who needed medical aid. “Many of them have wounds that are not bandaged properly or are covered with dirty rags,” says Angelin. “They are hesitant to go to a government hospital as they have to wait in long queues. We did do dressing for a few people but then thought we should have a sustained programme.” Angelin, who has done a diploma in hand and leprosy physiotherapy, prefers to use the term Hansen’s disease instead of leprosy. “Stigma still exists around the word leprosy,” she says.
 
 At the moment, they will be using their own bikes to get around. “We are looking for donors who can help us with basic medical supplies or an autorickshaw for us to go around,” says Angelin. Psychologist Dr Mini Rao, who has been involved with the NGO for several years says, “Many still hesitate to interact with people with leprosy. This initiative will touch several lives.”
 
 
