NEW DELHI: With National Investigation Agency ( ) stating that it had no mandate to probe rationalist M M Kalburgi’s murder, the   on Friday sought responses of Karnataka, Maharashtra and Goa on a petition filed by Kalburgi’s widow seeking an SIT probe into the case. 

 
 Additional solicitor general Pinky Anand told a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud that the NIA Act listed scheduled offences which were to be probed by the agency and that it was not statutorily mandated to investigate a murder case unless asked by the home ministry. Umadevi Mallinath   in her writ petition drew a parallel between her husband’s murder and the killing of other rationalists Govind Panasare and Narendra Dabholkar and cited a statement of former Karnataka home minister to the effect that “there is conclusive evidence of link between the three murders, as the ballistic reports reveal the weapon used in the murders were same”. 
 
 She had said that no arrests were made in the murders and sought an SIT probe supervised by a retired SC or HC judge while alleging that the NIA, while investigating the October 16, 2009 Goa blast case, had failed to arrest the “shooters   and Vinay Pawar” who were allegedly instrumental in the three murders. 
 
 The NIA in its affidavit gave details on the investigation into the Goa blast case and said it had arrested six accused while four others including Akolkar were shown as absconders. In 2013, a Goa special court had acquitted all six accused. The NIA has appealed against the acquittal before the Goa bench of Bombay HC. The NIA told the SC that it was wrong on the petitioner’s part to suggest that the agency “failed to arrest the shooters” as it never “investigated any of the subject murder cases”. 
 
 It said a look out circular had been issued against Akolkar in connection with the Goa blast case but not against Pawar, as he was not an accused in the case. The agency said it was wrong on the petitioner’s part to accuse the agency of remaining inactive and failing to arrest the culprits in the Goa blast case and that such inaction led to the murder of Kalburgi. The bench posted the case for detailed hearing in July.
 
