BHUBANESWAR: Reorganization of railways in Odisha, expeditious formation of   and enhancing   (MSP) of paddy are among the top issues for the BJD to take up in the   of the Parliament starting on Monday.

 After discussing party’s strategy with BJD president and chief minister   here at the latter’s residence, BJD leader in Lok Sabha,   said bringing Odisha under one railway zone would be the major demand of the party this time.
 
 “After bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, the Centre is mulling to create a special zone for the state by taking out the Waltair railway division from the jurisdiction of   (ECoR). If the Centre proceeds with its plan, it would affect Odisha,” Mahtab said.
 
 He said the BJD demands to expand jurisdiction of the ECoR and to cover all parts of Odisha under one zone and to create three new divisional headquarters at Rourkela, Rayagada and Jajpur Road.
 
 Since some parts of Odisha in undivided Koraput districts are part of the Waltair railway division, there are chances that these areas may also be covered under the new zone, said an official source. On February 16, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had made similar demands in a letter to Union railway minister Piyush Goyal.
 
 Since the railway has not considered state’s demands like not approving any new railway projects for Odisha, new trains, freight corridors, mass rapid transit system and poor execution projects, the BJD president asked his MPs to raise these issues in the Parliament, said an MP, who attended the meeting.
 
 Party spokesperson Kalikesh Singh Deo said they would also demand expeditious constitution of a tribunal to resolve the Mahanadi water sharing dispute between Odisha and Chhattisgarh.
 
 Though the Union cabinet approved the proposal to set up a tribunal to resolve the Mahanadi water sharing dispute between Odisha and Chhattisgarh on February 20, it is yet to see the light of the day.
 
 “We would pressurize the Centre to stop construction of Polavaram project, increase the minimum support price of paddy to Rs 2930 against the existing price of Rs 1550 per quintal,” said Kalikesh.
 
 Naveen also asked his MPs to demand fund sharing pattern of centrally sponsored schemes at par with North-Eastern and Himalayan states and protest against non-announcement of special package for Koraput-Balangir-Kalahandi regions and inadequate allocation for SC/ST communities. “We would also continue to demand special status category for Odisha,” Kalikesh said.
 
 Non-revision of coal royalty, low telecom connectivity, poor financial inclusion, two additional battalions of central armed police force to tackle Maoist-menace and reimbursement of the cost of their deployment and fund cut under various central schemes are among other agendas of the party for the forthcoming session.
 
 To queries whether BJD would seek help of other parties in raising the issues in Parliament, Kalikesh said it depends on the issues. “Our stand is to maintain equal distance from Congress and BJP. If needed, we would seek help of other likeminded parties.
 
 The party also decided to reorganize on its representation in various standing and consultative committees of the parliament.
 
