NEW DELHI: The   on Monday sealed “illegal portions” of eight commercial establishments in  . The drive, carried out on the directions of a monitoring committee appointed by the  , targeted shops and restaurants located on first floor or above. 

 Officials clarified that they weren’t sealing entire establishments, but only those portions that didn’t have requisite clearances, or were illegally constructed. The monitoring committee, in pursuance of the SC order, is inspecting establishments for misuse of land and illegal construction. 
 
 Among the establishments that faced action on Monday were restaurants Khan Chacha and Smokey’s Grill, salons Geetanjali, Javaed Habib’s and Affinity and Ayena Skin Clinic. There are 156 shops at the marketplace, including 74 residential spaces that were later converted into 44 shops and 30 restaurants.
 
 An   official said: “We have sealed portions of establishments being used illegally by the owners. We are conducting door-to-door checks and violations are being strictly dealt with.” The drive, he added, would continue on Tuesday. “We will inspect every shop in the market and take action against the errant owners,” the official added.
 
 Many shopkeepers had already downed their shutters, fearing action, when members of the monitoring committee arrived to inspect the market in the morning. The committee comprises former adviser to the Election Commission, KJ Rao, chairman of the Environment Pollution Prevention and Control Authority (EPCA), Bhure Lal, and Major General (retd) Som Jhingan.
 
 The market wore a deserted look through the day even as the traders cried foul. “The civic body should at least give an advance notice on any kind of sealing action. They can’t just come and start sealing shops without even letting us know what our fault is,” Vishal Sharma, owner of Affinity Salon, said. 
 
 His mood was echoed by Vineet, manager of Khan Chacha restaurant, who said: “We weren’t using the rooftop area anyway following NDMC’s earlier directive. The terrace has a water tank and diesel generators and, now, we cannot even access the area. What will we do if an emergency arises?”
 
 Anshu Tandon, president of the restaurants’ association, said traders were a confused lot and NDMC must clear their doubts. “Every now and then, we face action from the local bodies. No one knows on what basis the current sealing activity is being carried out.” 
 
 Sanjiv Mehra, president of Khan Market traders’ association, said they would approach NDMC chairman Naresh Kumar for immediate desealing of the establishments. “A misconception has been created that traders in Khan Market are not paying conversion charges. We are operating in an elite market and believe in abiding by norms. The sealing drive will also impact our image. If at all, violations were found, notices could have been sent first to rectify them and action taken later. We will speak to the chairman about this,” Mehra said.
 
 The Supreme Court, while reviving the monitoring committee’s sealing powers, had observed that “the blatant misuse of properties in Delhi for commercial purposes on such a large scale could not take place without the connivance of officers”. Two more markets under NDMC jurisdiction — Meharchand and Khanna — could face similar action later this week. 
 
 The sealing drive was started on December 22 with the Defence Colony market in south Delhi where at least 50 units were sealed for non-payment of use conversion charges. 
 
 
