GURUGRAM: In 2017, the   phenomenon left many a parent stumped, worried and fearful. Yet few realised that the reason behind the game going viral had much to do with the poor mental health of kids.

 Here, then, was an opportunity to steer the question away from the ‘challenge’ to issues around mental wellness. Thus, was born ‘Project Re-Search’, a collaboration between Color of Grey Cells — a group that endeavours to publicise the uses and benefits of psychotherapy through the medium of arts — and Dentsu  , the digital arm of Dentsu Aegis Network.
 
  Launched in November 2017 to help increase awareness of mental health in India, the undercover search campaign has been active since then, seeking to redirect traffic from every ‘Blue Whale Challenge’ related query to pertinent topics around mental health. “Mental health is something Indians still choose to learn little about,” informs the video for the campaign. “Perhaps why only few know it’s behind one of our most sensationalised topics of last year.”
 
  The project aimed to explore the mental conditions ‘Blue Whale’ might have been feeding off, and introduced them within ‘Google Ads’ to adults searching the game. The ads provided a peek into the many mental conditions – anxiety in children, bullying in schools, depression and juvenile aggression – while building into it another Google search for that mental condition.
 
  Project Re-search used the   Challenge as a wake-up call, says Anushma  , founder, Color of Grey Cells. “It aims to direct an adult’s invested concern in it towards some of the oft ignored mental health difficulties that could have made our children vulnerable to it,” explained Kshetrapal, adding, “The hope is that adults ‘re-searching’ through this initiative take their first step towards learning about issues we’ve ignored as a society for far too long.”
 
  In its wake, ‘Blue Whale’ left many unanswered questions. It also left many misinformed. P G Aditya – senior creative director, Webchutney – says it was important to find the answers. “Post the Blue Whale Challenge, we had to ask ourselves: Where now from here? What is the right takeaway for parents and adults from this? And how do we equip ourselves when, say, the next avatar of a Blue Whale surfaces?’ shared Aditya.
 
  “The masses hadn’t received that information from the large institutions that drove the sensation around Blue Whale. And we decided to take it upon ourselves to change that.” 
 
  Three months on, there is, encouragingly, better understanding of the mental health issues affecting kids. The ads, it was found, led to a 50 percent increase in searches for anxiety in children, a 30 percent increase in searches for bullying in schools, and a 100 percent increase in searches for juvenile aggression.
 
  So, through a simple online search, more mothers and fathers were learning about mental health in children – because every Google search for Blue Whale Challenge became a Google search for mental health.
 
 
