NEW DELHI: At a time when air pollution is a major cause of concern, a gas-based   specifically set up for Delhi is likely to close down  . The 108MW power plant established by   Delhi in   during the Commonwealth Games has been given a March deadline for resuming operation by the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission. 

 Despite the fact that the plant has been lying defunct for over five years due to non-availability of gas, Tata Power Delhi has appealed against DERC’s directive in the appellate tribunal, claiming it was needed to meet any unforeseen need and for Delhi’s islanding scheme.
 
 Towards the end of 2017, DERC, while expressing concern over costs associated with the plant, had observed that due process had not been followed in its establishment in the first place. It said, “The Rithala plant, as has emerged, was established basically to enhance the power availability in Delhi and (to) cater to urgent need and requirement of power for the Commonwealth Games. The competitive bidding process was not followed. Therefore, the element of transparency and reasonableness could not be commented upon ... (sic)’’ 
 
 The discom has, however, justified the installation of the plant, contending that it was done with the “objective of having captive, load centre (in Delhi) power generation for enhancing reliability and islanding capabilities in case of a grid distress/collapse”. 
 
 A Tata Power Delhi official said, “Shutting the plant down is not the answer. Even Delhi government’s Bawana plant is barely producing 300MW of its installed capacity of 1,500MW due to gas shortage, which is a nationwide problem. What if we need power from the Rithala plant in the future, especially since coal-backed plants are under so much scrutiny?” The official also claimed that all due process was followed while setting up the plant.
 
 The proposal for setting up a   was first mooted by Tata Power Delhi in June 2007 over six acres in Rithala in north Delhi. In 2008, the discom was issued an NOC by the Delhi Development Authority for setting up the plant, keeping intact the ownership of the land with the Delhi government. The Centre had recommended making additional gas available to three plants in the city, including the one at Rithala, in 2009-10 to meet enhanced power requirements during the Commonwealth Games. However, despite this, the plant has not been operating since 2012 due to lack of gas.
 
 
