On Thursday morning, corporate employees from Noida came together for a green cause. More than 55 cyclists from different corporate companies participated in the rally. The riders started from Sector 16 Metro Station and crossed areas like Film City, Maha Maya flyover, Mahamaya Balika Inter College, Botanical Garden Metro Station, Sector 18 Metro Station and Jaypee Underpass flyover. The cyclists then went to the Sector 93 Noida Authority Park to do some stretching exercises before heading to Sector 142.

 
  
  
 
 
 Shwetank Singh, one of the riders who lives in Sector 78, said, "We covered a distance of 31km. The aim of the ride was to promote the cause of clean and green Noida. We wanted to encourage people to use public modes of transportation rather than travelling in their personal vehicles. We spoke to joggers at the Noida Authority Park and educated them on how one can keep the city clean and green. We also advised them to take bicycles to work."
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The cyclists say that they participated in this ride to take a break from their hectic, sedentary work life. Abhishek Kumar Parashar, a resident of Mayur Vihar Phase 3, said, "This is the first time I have participated in a bike rally and it was a good experience. It was a great way to escape the routine, hectic life. This rally will motivate many to take up a healthy lifestyle."
 
 Hari Om Chauhan, a resident of GK 2 who works in a corporate company in Noida, said, "It was a good experience. There was a massive traffic jam below the Maha Maya flyover but we crossed the area comfortably on our bicycles. We could see it in the eyes of people driving cars, they must be thinking ‘kaash humare paas bhi cycle hoti abhi’. Since the rally was organised a day before the Rebublic Day, we all were in a patriotic mood and kept chanting Bharat Mata ki jai."
 
 Kumar Sanjeev, another participant and resident of Laxmi Nagar, said, "I saw many new faces at the rally and discovered that a number of them work in my office. I made a lot of new friends at this event."
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
