GURUGRAM: While the state   has deployed protection watchers and recently even formed a special task force for the  , not much has changed on the ground as it continues to face shortage of staff, budget and equipment.

 TOI visited six checkposts of the forest department and found out the challenges faced by protection watchers and the newly formed task force. While the staff at checkpoints located close to the Raisina area complained about manpower shortage, protection watchers at many other checkposts said they had not been paid for the past nine months. Also, no special training and equipment have been given to the protection watchers.
 
 Suraj Kumar (name changed), who spends 12 hours at a checkpoint located in the dense forest, finds it difficult to manage two square meals a day as he has been waiting for his salary. 
 
 “The problem is I have been working as a protection watcher with the forest department for the past 10 years. This is the only job I know. I have dedicated my life to save the dense forest of this area. Villagers alert me as soon as they see any illegal activity in the area. However, my hard work doesn’t seem to be good enough as I haven’t got any salary for the past nine months. My senior officials sometimes help me with small amount of money,” he said. 
 
 According to officials, the protection watchers are hired at a daily wage of about Rs 318. “We had to close many checkpoints and withdraw protection watchers last year. The ones, who are working, are hoping to get their salaries soon. Whenever we visit the check points, they ask us for the salaries. We still have no answers,” said an official, on condition of anonymity.
 
 At many places, the staff members don’t have even the basic equipment such as walkie-talkie, vehicles to commute to their villages at night and to chase stone and land mafia. “We always keep an eye over the movement of vehicles in the forest area. However, it is difficult to chase a vehicle if its speeds into the forest area. Also, giving information to the police become sometimes difficult. We all have mobile phones, but the network is not reliable in the forest area,” said another protection watcher.
 
 Many also complained about the shortage of staff. “Our check point is situated at a very crucial junction. One person mans the nakka during the day and the other person comes at night. Do you think one person can deal with the land mafia that carry construction material in big vehicles? We have no equipment and we are scared. If we are two or three people, we might be able to do our jobs more effectively. However, we still try our best to protect the forest,” said another protection watcher, requesting anonymity. 
 
 Before 2017, there were four to five protection watchers per check post, but the numbers have now come down to two to three protection watchers. The move came after the financial powers of the district forest department were curtailed and it was made mandatory to release tenders to provide protection watchers. However, according to the authorities, the number of protection watchers has now been increased from 24 to 34 and the number of check posts will soon be increased from nine to 13.
 
 
