JAIPUR: For the past six days, hundreds of policemen from Jodhpur police had to spent sleepless nights.

 From intense patrolling on highways connecting other towns and districts to Jodhpur to scanning city hotels, the Jodhpur police left no stone unturned to ensure they did not face riot-like situation in Haryana following the conviction of another self-styled godman,  .
 
 It was the constant vigil and efforts of by the Jodhpur police ensured peace on the day Asaram was convicted.
 
 The first thing the Jodhpur police did was to request the   to deliver the final judgment in the case at the jail. “We won half the battle when court accepted our request to have the special court proceedings in the Jodhpur jail. We had deployed over 2,000 policemen in and around the city. A-grade patrolling with all senior officers began on Friday,” said deputy commissioner of police (west) Amandeep Singh Kapoor to TOI.
 
 Police were seen on the highways, scanning every vehicle and even frisking people. “We nabbed almost 10 persons on Wednesday and at least 50 since Friday. They were sent out of Jodhpur city limits. The number of Asaram supporters are negligible in the city,” said Kapoor.
 
 Police also used drone cameras and kept   on standby in case of mass arrests. They also organized flag marches every day from Friday. “Section 144 of CrPC was imposed in the city prior to the judgment day. In the past, thousands of Asaram supporters used to come to the city. So, we had to anticipate things and respond accordingly,” Kapoor added.
 
 Unlike Haryana, when schools and colleges remained closed when the judgement in the Gurmeet Ram Rahim case was pronounced, it was a regular day in Jodhpur city.
 
 During the court proceedings, people in tea stalls, sweet shops and restaurants were glued on TV. They praised the efforts of the city police in keeping peace. “Our relatives have been calling us since they came to know about the judgement on Wednesday. We were apprehensive, but thanks to Jodhpur police, law and order were maintained,” said  , a retired government employee, who was having tea at a shop 2km away from the central jail.
 
 In the evening, junior policemen were seen asking seniors for casual leave as they were cancelled due to the emergency. “It was actually an emergency situation for us. Thanks to the tireless work of our men, the day was free of incidents,” said a senior police officer of Jodhpur (east).
 
 
