Chennai: Police have arrested an autorickshaw driver and two of his in-laws for murdering his wife's lover when she went to meet him in Nandambakkam on Wednesday morning. The woman was also attacked and suffered severe head injuries. 

 The victim was identified as Vishwanathan, 35, a resident of Ashok Nagar. Police said he was a childhood friend of Shobana, 28, also a resident of Ashok Nagar, who was married to Murali, 31, an auto driver. 
 
 Police said Murali grew suspicious after finding that Shobana was exchanging frequent messages and calls with a particular number. She also went out for a morning walk every day and returned home late. When Murali confronted her about this, she denied any wrongdoing, said a police officer. 
 
 Murali informed his mother-in-law Vasantha and brother-in-law Kannan who warned her that her husband was suspicious about her morning walks, the officer said. On Wednesday morning, when Shobana left the house, Murali followed her in his auto rickshaw, taking his mother-in-law and brother-in-law along with him. They spotted Shobana getting onto Vishwanathan's bike and followed the two to the playground in Nandambakkam.
 
 When he saw Shobana and Vishwanathan chatting, an irked Murali got into an altercation with them. He picked up a log lying in the playground and inflicted severe head injuries on them with the help of his brother-in-law and mother-in-law. The trio subsequently went to the Guindy police station and informed police about the incident. 
 
 Since the case was under the Nandambakkam police station limits, it was handed over to police there who rushed to the scene. They found Vishwanathan dead and Shobana seriously injured. She was rushed to the Chromepet government hospital for treatment and is in a stable condition. The body of the man has been sent for a postmortem.
 
 Police said Vishwanathan was a divorcee who lived with his mother in Ashok Nagar and worked in a private company in Meenambakkam. 
 
 The trio were arrested on charges of murder and remanded in judicial custody.
 
 
