Visakhapatnam:   usage by consumers coming under the city-based AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) has increased this summer when compared with corresponding period of last year.

 According to the current status of  , the usage of electricity has reached up to 3100MW to 3200MW daily as against 2700MW to 2800MW at the same time last year. The sharp rise in electricity consumption, which is a normal during summer months, is attributed to two main reasons — increasing number of consumers in the city, and secondly, widespread usage of electrical home appliances like air-conditioners by almost all people irrespective of their financial status.
 
 APEPDCL chairman and managing director H Y Dora said they are presently supplying around 630 lakh units of power per day to nearly 55 lakh consumers within their limits. It was less than 550 lakh units of power in the corresponding period (summer) last year, he added. The rise in power consumption is due to a 10 per cent increase in power consumers besides excessive usage of ACs, Dora said.
 
 A senior APEPDCL official observed that unlike earlier days, these days most people own ACs irrespective of their financial status. This has been mainly possible due to the EMI (equated monthly instalment) offers being provided by almost all dealers and online shopping sites.
 
 K Haranadh Raju, managing director of Galaxy showroom at Diamond Park Junction in the city, said AC-manufacturing companies are directly giving zero interest rate EMI facilities to all purchasers. “The alluring offer attracts customers, who can own ACs whose starting price starts from Rs 20,000-25,000 per unit depending on the brand and capacity,” he added.
 
 On the other hand, Dora said due to the easy availability of ACs, most discom consumers are having more contracted load than the actual connected load in their premises due to adding of load from time to time without informing and regularising the extra load with the discom. Dora said they are now targeting such consumers and have asked them to regularise the unauthorized electricity consumption load at the earliest or be ready to pay hefty fines.
 
 “More than 1,000 domestic consumers have voluntarily regularised their unauthorized additional domestic load to run the ACs by paying Rs 16 lakh to the discom towards the charges,” Dora informed.
 
 
