MANGALURU:   responded to the festival of democracy with five of the eight assembly constituencies –  , Belthangady, Puttur, Moodbidri and Sullia — pulling in better numbers compared to urban constituencies in the district. The fervour was seen throughout the five constituencies with voting starting at 7am, peaking around noon before tapering off, only to pick up in the evening.

 It was lesson in democracy as rural voters put a premium on their vote compared to their urban counterparts in Mangaluru City South, City North and Mangaluru constituencies. Polling stations that media visited in these five constituencies indicated a steady trend of voters filing in right from morning. Copious rainfall lashed these areas over the last 72 hours, but still the humidity levels were manageable enough to draw voters in large numbers.
 
 Booth 172 in Bantwal constituency saw 58% people casting their vote by noon. A BSF officer manning the booth with other security personnel said that people were cooperative and they faced no issues. Shwetha, a millennial voter at polling station 177 in Bantwal, said: “I will vote for a deserving person.”
 
 For   victims such as Thulasi, the arrangement made by the district administration to help reach their respective booths proved useful. She was among the 18 endosulfan victims out of 35 who had cast their vote by 1pm. 
 
 In Naxal-affected stations, polling was peaceful. A Beretta totting Sashastra Seema Bal officer manning one such booth said: “Yes, we are aware this (polling station) is in a Naxal-affected area. Unless we come face to face with such elements, it is hearsay,” the officer said. His other colleagues were ready with INSAS rifles, a far cry from the grenade-launching CAPF personnel who manned these stations in 2008 and 2013 polls.
 
 For voters of polling station 119 in   at  , the decked-up station was a welcome relief from normal ones. With a sizeable Koraga population, it was among the five ethnic polling stations dotting the district with presence of tribals and SC communities. The station registered 81.3% voting at 5.35pm with 914 out of 1,124 voters exercising their franchise. The station was prepared two days in advance.
 
 
