VISAKHAPATNAM: B Ramesh, a tourist from Bangalore, got the shock of his life recently when he was asked to pay Rs 10 — just to pee in a container   at the famous   beach in the city. The reaction of local visitors, who usually go to the beach for morning or evening strolls, too has been on similar lines.

 AP Tourism recently set up two container toilets (one for men and one for women) at the beach spot. A gateman too was appointed to collect user charges from visitors if they want to use the toilet. 
 
 Ramesh, during his recent visit to the city, had gone to the beach front in the evening. When he felt a need to relieve himself, the only place he could find in the area was the container toilet. But the steep Rs 10 charge came as a shock to him. 
 
 “I have been to so many places in the country, but nowhere do they charge this high just to pee! There was no other place nearby so I had to use it and paid the amount. The gateman took the amount but was reluctant to give a receipt. Do they want visitors to stop coming to the beach?” asked an agitated Ramesh.
 
 Omkar Banerjee, a tourist from Kolkata, said he too faced a similar problem. “I was asked to pay Rs 50 as we were a family of five people. Just to pee you have pay this amount? It is just too much! They should at least maintain the place when charging so much, but it was messy. Is this how AP government wants to market Vizag as the country’s best tourist destination?” fumed Banerjee.
 
 When the issue was brought to the notice of D Srinivasan, executive director in-charge, AP Tourism, he said the container toilet blocks consist of shower-cum-toilet units. “There is no separate unit for urination. We charge Rs 10 from tourists for availing shower-cum-toilet facility. We will arrange separate urinal units in the near future, which will either be free to use or there will be a nominal fee,” Srinivasan told TOI.
 
 He further said that it is a practical problem to identify how the user was availing the facility. “So, the solution is to have separate urinal units. We will do it very soon,” Srinivasan added.
 
 Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) vice-chairman P Basanth Kumar said Rushikonda beach does not come under its purview except the helipad where they provided washrooms for visitors free of cost during the operational phase stage of the helitourism project.
 
 Visitors to the beach, however, are not convinced. Both the tourism department and civic body are collecting huge tax from citizens, so it is their responsibility to provide at least public toilets, particularly for non-Vizagites who visit the city from diferent parts of the country.
 
 Speaking to TOI, GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan said the corporation had already installed one toilet on the beach road. “The toilet would be made operational shortly with minimum charges for visitors and tourists at Rushikonda beach,” he said.
 
 
