KOLKATA: A blaze at a   processing unit on   tested the firefighting skills of the officials for around three and-a-half hours on Monday night. Chilly fumes, which caused a burning sensation in the eyes and lungs, made the task of dousing the   quite difficult for the fire officials and locals. Despite, multiple hiccups, they managed to control the situation and prevent any loss of life.

 Locals were the first to rush to the unit, where the fire was reported around 12.20am on Monday. “We put wet towels on our faces, but with each passing minute, it became difficult to breathe. Eight labourers were sleeping inside the unit. While some of us climbed up the first floor to rescue them, others filled buckets from a nearby canal threw water on the burning floor to try and restrict the blaze,” said  , a local resident.
 
 The first batch of five fire tenders reached the spot in the next five minutes. But without oxygen masks or cylinders, the task of firefighters became difficult. “Our eyes and lungs were burning. The sensation was becoming unbearable,” said a fire official who fell ill in the line of duty. Reinforcements and safety equipment reached after halfan-hour. While locals tried to arrange additional water, some firefighters stood ready with oxygen cylinders, masks and visors for their colleagues who were choking and falling ill due to the toxic fumes.
 
 Finally, after three-and-ahalf hours at 4am, the blaze was contained with the help of 15 fire engines. While no life was lost and the property damage was also minimal, the entire neighbourhood was suffocating. Unable to bear the burning sensation the residents of the densely populated area rushed out of homes.
 
 “When someone suggested that drinking milk will help tackle the burning sensation, locals pitched in immediately. While each house brought us some milk, a local shopkeeper sent us his entire stock. The cooperation was laudable,” said a fire official.
 
 Santosh Jha, another resident, recalled how the firemen took turns to contain the deadly fire. “We stood several metres away with wet towels on our faces. Even then, it was difficult to breathe.The firefighters might have had a tough time,” he told TOI.
 
 “Prima facie, it appears that a short circuit caused the fire. We are trying to ascertain the exact cause. A case will be initiated once the fire department lodges a complaint,” said an officer of the Ultadanga police station.
 
 
