Justice N Santosh Hegde-Former  

 As soon the news about the attack on justice   broke, I saw members of the BJP speaking about a complete law and order failure and even demanding President’s rule. My first reaction was that the incident should not be politicised and that one incident is no way to measure the total law and order situation in the state.
 
 That said, it could not be excused either. I then rushed to the hospital, where I had to wait with the family and other members of the Lokayukta given Shetty’s condition. There I learnt that the government had failed in responding to at least 20 letters about the defunct metal detector and a series of requests to upgrade security at the building.
 
 It then arrived in my mind that the government’s inaction was only reflective of its overall attitude towards the institution whose power it has been trying to dilute since occupying office. Soon after this government came to power, it tried taking the power of grievance redressal from the Lokayukta, an important jurisdiction that gave voiceless people access to rectify maladministration or no administration without having to go to courts.
 
 This move was thwarted after public came out in protest and multiple voices spoke against it. While this was dropped, a few years later, another move was implemented in such expeditious manner that people did not even have a chance to protest: The government had taken away the statutory power of investigating corruption from the Lokayukta by forming the   ( ).
 
 Now, this was done without following the right procedures and the matter is pending before the high court. But all these were indications of the government’s intent to kill the institution. And its apathy towards people working here manifested itself in the form of Wednesday’s attack.
 
 Would the security be as lax in the neighbouring building where all these legislators work from? I heard multiple representatives of the government defending the government saying Justice Shetty used to freely meet people, which is inexcusable. Lokayukta means ‘commissioner of the people’ and it is his job to meet people and understand their problems. Instead of putting the blame on the man who was attacked, the government should reflect.
 
 One representative also asked why the BJP ruling at the Centre did not appoint a Lokpal. How is this connected to the attack on the Lokayukta? As isolated as the incident may seem, it is time that the government is held accountable. All the security lapses must be looked into and people responsible must be punished.
 
 (As told to Times of India)
 
 
