A day after ACB sleuths booked a top HMDA official for the second time on corruption charges, it has come to light that it is the state government itself that is shy of fighting corruption. This is revealed by the fact that several mechanisms were proposed to check graft in the civic bodies, especially GHMC and HMDA, with particular reference to the town planning wings.

 Apart from that, measures were announced to curb the growth of unauthorized constructions as they were acting as feeders to the corrupt officials. However, nothing has moved in the last three and half years and the fight against corruption has remained only on paper.
 
 To begin with, municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao had in December 2016 announced in the assembly that the TRS government would soon set up a town planning tribunal to deal with the cases pertaining to construction of unauthorized structures as thousands of cases were pending in various courts in the state leading to builders securing injunctions from courts and continue building their illegal structures.
 
 
 
 
 According to sources, it is the corrupt civic officials who would advise such builders to exploit legal loopholes and go ahead with their activity. There are at least 6,000 cases related to town planning (unauthorised construction) pending in various courts. The tribunal was proposed to dispose off such cases and initiate action against errant builders and owners. But till date, the tribunal is yet to see the light of day.
 
 In order to check rampant corruption in various civic bodies, the director of town and country planning (DTCP) under the municipal administration department had proposed putting in place common service rules that would enable the state to shunt out corrupt officials to remote areas. At present, there are separate service rules for GHMC, HMDA, Hyderabad Metro, Water Board and other municipalities because of which an employee working with one civic agency cannot be transferred to another agency. The proposal was subsequently cleared by the cabinet sub-committee on municipal reforms. But after that it received a quiet burial.
 
 “The government is not even considering shifting top level ‘corrupt’ officials in GHMC. A senior town planning officer has been working in GHMC for several years though there were serious corruption allegations against him. Some builders’ associations also complained about him to the municipal administration minister last year. Despite all that, this official got promoted,” S  , founder of Anti-Corruption Enforcement Forum, told STOI.
 
 Another measure to put an end to unauthorized structures was linking property registration with building or layout approved plan. As per this, at the time of registration of a building or plot, the developer has to produce a copy of the permission obtained from the civic body. This would ensure that the builders do not raise illegal structures or floors. Nothing has moved on the ground on this even after two years.
 
 “Quoting the example of Tamil Nadu, where submission of a sanctioned plan is mandatory for registering a property, the DTCP had proposed a similar measure in Telangana,”  , former director of DTCP, told STOI. However, fearing loss in revenue, the state government put it on the back burner, sources said.
 
 Yet another measure that is yet to be implemented is the setting up of   (RERA). The rules were notified in August 2017, three months after the Centre announced a deadline. In Jan 2018, a temporary regulatory authority was constituted and an IAS office given charge. But on the ground, nothing is moving. Despite repeated attempts, municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar and GHMC commissioner B   were not available for comment.
 
 
