Kolkata: The committee of creditors (CoC) of beleaguered steel maker Electrosteel Steels (ESL) will meet on Thursday to take a call on the objection raised by Renaissance Steel against two rival bidders — Vedanta and Tata Steel. Vedanta was the highest bidder (H1) in the insolvency resolution of ESL. A source close to the development said on Wednesday the resolution professional (RP) will submit its explanation on why he felt Tata Steel and Vedanta were eligible for the bid along with the response of Dalmia group-led Renaissance Steel. The NCLT on March 20 had directed the RP to give a copy of his decision to make Vedanta the highest bidder, along with an explanation as to why he felt that the Anil Agarwal firm and Tata Steel are eligible for bidding. NCLT had also asked the RP to submit a copy of his decision along with the objections of Dalmia group firm to CoC. “Now, the CoC has to take a view. The next hearing for this case is due on April 2. Prior to that, creditors have to form an opinion,” added sources. “After considering the objections, the CoC will decide on the eligibility of the two companies to bid. If the committee members want, the matter will be put to vote,” said sources. The Dalmia-led company has alleged that both Vedanta and Tata Steel were not eligible to bid according to Section 29 A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) — as one provision of this section says any company, which has executives who have been convicted for any punishable offence with imprisonment of two years or more under any Companies Act, would not be eligible to apply. Dalmias have claimed that both the companies — Vedanta and Tata Steel — come under the above criterion. The ongoing controversy might impact other bids of Tata Steel and Vedanta — where they are frontrunners or participating. Vedanta was declared the highest bidder (H1) at Electrosteel Steels bidding, while Tata Steel was declared highest bidder for Bhushan Steel.  They are also in the fray for assets of Essar Steel. The liquidation value of Electrosteel Steels is Rs 2,900 crore.