NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro’s frequency varies from two to five minutes depending on the time of the day. The  , however, which is going to open soon, would see trains arrive at an interval of nearly half an hour. This happens to be the   in the whole metro network.

  
  
 The 11.2-km section with seven stations will open soon and become DMRC’s third foray into Haryana after Gurugram and Faridabad. This will be an extension of the existing Inderlok - Mundka Corridor ( ). The corridor will run along NH-10 (Rohtak Road) on an elevated viaduct. Four of the stations are in Delhi—Mundka Industrial Area (MIE), Ghevra, Tikri Kalan and Tikri Border—while three are in Haryana (Modern Industrial Estate, Bus Stand and City Park).
 
 The reason for the low frequency is a missing link between the corridor and its train depot. DMRC has been unable to build a track connecting the two due to unavailability of land. With no space to park the extra trains needed for providing a normal frequency, limited services would be available. 
 
 “We will open the line very soon, but full services will not be available,” DMRC managing director Mangu Singh told TOI. “We will have truncated services because we can’t hold the number of trains in the existing depot. Till such time we have connectivity to the depot, we will run truncated services,” Singh added. 
 
 Singh said that DMRC had initially planned trains every six minutes on the corridor. “But since connectivity with the depot is not there, we will have fewer trains available. We might run them at an interval of 20 or 25 minutes, which is actually no service by metro’s standards,” Singh said. 
 
 But Singh said, as a consolation, that at least the system is complete and would be put to use. 
 
 DMRC has been writing letters to Haryana Urban Development Authority to provide a strip of land required to build the connecting track to no avail. 
 
 “The trial runs are in progress on the Mundka – Bahadurgarh section since December last year. The civil and other ancillary works on the entire stretch are almost complete and finishing works are in the final stages at some of the stations,” a DMRC spokesperson said, adding, “The necessary documentation for sending the application for the inspection by CMRS is being done now and some other mandatory prior approvals are being taken. After the completion of all these formalities, the application for inspection by CMRS will be sent.”
 
 The spokesperson further said, “The issue pertaining to the unavailability of land near the MIE station in Haryana has not yet been resolved, and this land measuring 300 metres is essential for regular operations as it provides access to the depot located there.”
 
 
