BHOPAL: The 13-year long wait for a martyr’s family to get compensation may end on a sad note. The family has been denied compensation.

 BSF constable   died in a  . He was declared a martyr by BSF, but his family did not get compensation. Initially, the CEO office, Madhya Pradesh did not release the compensation citing the reason that it is yet to get the report of the incident from Jharkhand CEO, a document mandatory for the release of compensation money.
 
 TOI reported the matter on January 6 after which Jharkhand CEO sent a report to its counterpart in MP. However, the report from Jharkhand stated Singh was murdered in a personal brawl and did not die in the line of duty.
 
 There is insurance of security personnel on poll duty. If a security personnel dies in poll duty, his family is entitled to get financial assistance of up to Rs 10 lakh. But, the compensation has been denied to the family on the basis of the Jharkhand CEO’s report.
 
 The family now plans to approach the court. Ramratan Singh’s son, Rajesh said, “My father died in Jharkhand. He went for duty there and not on a personal trip. How can authorities deny the compensation?”
 
 “No one is speaking to me in Bhopal despite repeated calls. I would come to Bhopal once again to meet the higher officials and later approach to court,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, the MP joint chief electoral officer S S Bansal said, “The family is not entitled to compensation. The police report of Jharkhand states he was murdered in a brawl. The accused were also arrested for his murder case registered in Jharkhand. It has been informed to the home department in the secretariat”.
 
 Ramratan Singh, a native of Bhind district , was a head constable in BSF. He was on poll duty in Jharkhand on January 15, 2005. The roll of honour given to him by BSF states while returning to the   camp from poll duty, the BSF party was ambushed by naxals. In the exchange of fire, Ramratan Singh acted swiftly, but sustained fatal injuries and succumbed. His supreme sacrifice in the line of duty shall always be remembered by the nation.
 
 Singh had also served in special ranger group on elite counter terrorist unit of the   from May 1997 to May 2003. His family received roll of honour by director general, BSF in the presence of higher education minister Jaibhan Pawaiya at his home town on October 21, 2015.
 
