HYDERABAD: The first integrated township in the state will soon come up at Tellapur in   district. The project, taken up jointly by   (TTPL) and Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), will be developed in 100 acres. The municipal administration department recently approved the project.

 “While the HMDA will provide 100 acres land and some infrastructure facilities including roads, drinking water, sewer lines and electricity to the maximum cost of ?50 crore for the township, the developer will construct the township,” HMDA commissioner   told TOI.
 
 
 As the township is near the financial district and the new IT corridor, a huge demand is expected. Sources said the developer will give either five per cent revenue share or ?78 crore a year to the metropolitan authority. Before construction, the developer will submit a master plan to the HMDA.
 
 The metropolitan authorities said the integrated township was proposed by Tellapur Techno-city project in 2007 in about 400 acres on sale basis. The developers Tishman Speyer Indian Master Fund, ICICI Ventures Funds Management Company Ltd and   formed a consortium Tellapur Techno-city Project. They wanted to purchase 400 acres land from HMDA. The developer paid ?448 crore for 100 acres. HMDA also entered into a development agreement with the bidders in August, 2007.
 
 Officials said though agreement was entered 11 years ago, HMDA could hand over only 100 acres on payment of ?448 crore along with project development fee of ?4 crore. The balance land could not be handed over due to land litigations and other issues. The project also could not go ahead after a slow down in the reality sector and issues due to state bifurcation.
 
 After formation , TTPL renewed its proposal and approached the state government. A committee was constituted for resolving the issues.   advocated that the project should continue to make a world-class township in a restricted area of 100 acres.
 
 “If the project is not continued, there would be a financial burden on the state to the tune of ?4,600 crore due to earlier agreements and clauses that says 30 per cent internal rate of return to the developer if the project does not take off. The developer and the state settled the issue amicably,” HMDA metropolitan commissioner said.
 
 
