In the latest episode of  , Deep and Arohi are taken to a secret location, kidnapped by some goons. Unable to find Virat, Prithvi calls him and asks him to come home. He says that Roma is looking for him. Virat asks him to give information about Vedika. Prithvi refuses to give any answer and says that he has nothing to do with her. 

 
 Arohi and Deep wake up and find themselves confined. Arohi doubts Roma and feels she is behind all this. The goon slaps her.
 
 Virat meets Prithvi and hits him, accusing him of being Vedika's father. Prithvi says that there is no reason to doubt him. He tries to change the topic. Virat goes away, promising to come back with proof. Prithvi worries for Vedika. He decides to call Roma and tell her about Virat's plans.
 
 As the goons threaten them, Deep too begins to doubt Roma. Prithvi sees Roma and tells her to stop Virat before he goes and gets a DNA test done. Roma tells him that she is focused on Arohi. 
 
 The goons continue to hold them captive. Arohi tells Deep that she was right all along and Roma could not do any good for anyone. Deep stops her and says that he did not love her and trusts Roma. Arohi questions him about saving Niku's life. Deep says that he couldn't see the kids dying. The goons hit Arohi again, asking her about Niku. Deep begs them to stop. Arohi faints on the floor.
 
 Virat shows the DNA report to Prithvi and threatens to kill him for hiding the truth. He tells her that Vedika had been long dead. Prithvi gets a shock on hearing this.
 
 Deep tends to Arohi's wounds and says that she let herself and Niku in trouble even though Deep gave them a chance to run away.
 
 Prithvi doesn't believe Virat'. The former challenges to show him the proof and says that he would disclose the truth very soon, provided Prithvi helped him take revenge from Roma. Prithvi walks away.
 
 The goons injure Deep badly and make him unconscious.
 
 Prithvi gets miffed with Roma when she says that she doesn't care for Vedika. He gets angry and points a gun at her, threatening to kill her.
 
 Deep wakes up and the goons bring them food to eat. Deep looks at Arohi and shows her the key he managed to steal from the goons. They make a plan to escape.
 
 Deep and Arohi run away but the goons follow them. As the thugs talk, they reveal that the kidnapping was Arohi's plan. 
 
