RAJKOT:   worth Rs 1 one crore was stolen from mid-sea from dredger   while it was on its way from   in Kutch to Ghogha in Bhavnagar. The dredger, which is the property of Adani Port and Special Economic Zone (APSEZ), has been given contract to do the dredging work at Ghogha terminal of the Ghogha-Dahej Ro-Ro ferry service launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year.

 The thieves took away heavy ropes, steel wires, hydraulic motors and other brass items from the dredgers. Besides these heavy equipment, thieves also stole television sets and refrigerators on the 104 m long vessel that can dredge up to 29 m depth.
 
 Police inspector N M Mandera of Bhavnagar marine police said the dredger had left Mundra port on March 13 and reached Ghogha port on March 17. 
 
 “A tugboat had brought the dredger, with no crew member on board, to Ghogha. On March 18 when the officials of the dredging company came and inspected the vessel, they found some equipment missing. Following this they lodged a theft complaint,” Mandera said. He added that it was not clear as to when and where the robbery took place. The first information report (FIR) was lodged by deputy manager with APSEZ Ratan Vupulori (55).
 
 Mandera said they were in the process of conducting an inquest of the equipment stolen.
 
 However, a senior   (GMB) official said thieves are suspected to be from villages near Alang and Piram Island off the coast of Bhavnagar. “This area near Alang anchorage and Piram Island is vulnerable to thefts,” he added.
 
 In November last year, a similar theft was reported from the dredger of Dharti Dredging, a Hyderabad-based company, which has been given the contract of capital dredging for Ghogha-Dahej ferry service. A complaint was also lodged with the Alang marine police station, but till date the theft hasn’t been detected.
 
 Also in November 2016, Alang marine police had arrested 23 members of a gang of thieves who targeted dead ships that come to Alang ship-breaking yard in Bhavnagar. The gang had a fixed modus operandi. They targeted vessel while it was waiting for its turn to enter the yard at the anchorage point.
 
 The gang used to come in boats and climb the vessel. They stole electronic items, articles made of brass and other metals. 
 
 
