NAGPUR: The   (NU) doctorate of philosophy (PhD) cell is turning out to be a case study in itself. The   has handed over the task of conducting PhD entrance test (PET) work to   (MKCL), that was thrown out in 2014 owing to poor services in general exam work. The decision is shocking since   had allegedly held back students’ data over unpaid dues and blocked NU website before exams in 2014.

 The IT corporate, having government stakes, was replaced by another private agency — Promarc. But, even after three years of ‘flawless’ performance by Promarc, the NU is yet to accord it complete autonomy of conducting PET exam and other formalities.
 
 The involvement of two agencies appear to be making the entire PET procedure complicated.
 
 Consider this, MKCL is tasked with accepting online forms to display final PET results. Then, the online registrations are done on Promarc’s portal. Besides, a user has to keep switching between two portals to complete formalities.
 
 Both, Vice chancellor SP Kane and Pro-VC Pramod Yeole have lauded the work done by both the agencies but couldn’t explain why only either of them is tasked with the entire work.
 
 Academicians slammed the NU top brass for adopting double standards in case of both the agencies.
 
 “On the one hand, you scrap a firm’s contract saying its services are poor. On the other, you applaud a firm but don’t hand over the entire online processing of exams such a PhD,” they said.
 
 An official from MKCL said it was always capable of doing good work. “Ultimately, it was the university’s decision. We want to empower university. We stand vindicated that we never underperformed as far as digitalization was concerned. There have been no complaints in the entire PET process,” the official said.
 
 Former management council member   said cut practice must stop in university and a review committee must to be formed to assess the performance of both the private agencies handling students and scholars’ data.
 
 “These agencies often refuse to share data with the university when it asks for it. This is nothing but blackmailing. It is high time their work has been reviewed by the university,” he said.
 
 Nimbarte recalled MKCL’s tantrums when it had not done any work and yet submitted claims worth crores. “Rs5.5 crore was collected by charging Rs50 per student to start online processing of exam work. I had opposed the bill which was later settled for Rs1.43 crore,” he said.
 
 The graduates’ constituency leader said he had proposed to add the rest of money in students welfare aid but there has been no disclosure about the funds.
 
 In PhD case, he said MKCL can again resort to blackmailing if there are any issues over payment.
 
 
