MANGALURU:   district police have arrested two of the three interstate thieves who had given them sleepless nights and recovered 237gram gold worth Rs 7 lakh from the accused. 

 Police have identified the accused as Iliyas, 34, and   C V, 30, from Thrissur in Kerala. They were apprehended from   on April 9 as they were travelling on a two-wheeler. The third accused is absconding. Police said the hunt for him is on.
 
 Based on the directions of the court, the duo was on April 10 remanded in police custody. Two motorcycles used in the crime, a dummy pistol and knives in addition to the gold have been recovered.
 
 On November 28, the gang had barged into the residence of one Nagendra Prasad at  , and fled with jewellery and mobile phones. On December 22, they broke into the house of Shivakumar Putturaya from   under   police station limits and looted 144 gram gold and his ATM cards. On March 21, they looted the house of one Narayan Pillai at Ichlampady.
 
  Explaining the modus operandi of the accused, police said, in Kedila, they first gained entry into the house on the pretext of repairing a mixer. After getting acquainted with the particulars of the house, they barged in and siphoned off gold and ATM cards. In the other two cases, they broke into big houses they had identified. 
 
 Police said the accused used dummy pistols and knives to scare the residents. "They are experts in gaining access to houses and fleeing with valuables. They always ensured they left no evidences behind. They never used cell phones while they got into ground for crime," superintendent of police B R Ravikanthegowda said, adding they used stolen Sim cards to divert the course of investigation.
 
  For instance, the thieves removed sim cards from the two phones they stole from the house in Patrameya and inserted them in new phones they had bought to misguide police. They later dumped one of the phones in a bus plying to Sirsi and the other travelling to  . The gang had posed a serious challenge to police. 
 
 
