GURUGRAM: A senior official of a   company, which cheated thousands of gullible investors of their hard-earned money after luring them with a promise of high returns, has been arrested in connection with a Rs 283crore   even as the mastermind(s) behind the scam is still at large.

 The economic offences wing (EOW) of Gurugram police picked up Sanjay Mewara in   (Madhya Pradesh) and brought him on transit remand to the city, where he was produced before a court on Monday and subsequently sent to police custody for seven days.
 
 Police sources said Mewara used to work for now-shut   Real Estate and Business Solution Private Ltd, the chit fund firm whose chairman and directors allegedly cheated thousands of people and ran away with their money. Mewara used to look after the company’s operations in the city.
 
 A police spokesperson said they were expected to get some crucial information from Mewara, which might help them arrest others involved in the scam and recovery the money. “In the police remand, we will interrogate the accused (Mewara) and try to trace the money raised by the chit fund company,” the spokesperson said. “Other accused involved in the scam would be arrested soon.”
 
 The economic offences wing had swung into action in August last year following complaints of cheating and fraud against Sriram Real Estate and Business Solution’s chairman Deepak Kumar Dhangi and directors Mohsin Hussain, Talib Hussain, Muhshid Khan, Rajesh Kumar, Arvinder Singh and Hans Raj.
 
 Investigations so far revealed that the firm used to open its office in different cities and lured people to invest, promising high returns. Initially, it did give high returns to win people’s confidence. And after collecting a good sum of money, its owners shut down shops and disappeared. Following this modus operandi, they collected a total of Rs 283 crore from common people in Gurugram.
 
 In 2015, the Gurugram police had arrested directors of Mahadev Mutual Benefit Company, a Manesar-based chit fund firm, which had duped several investors of over Rs 200 crore. After filing an FIR in 2013, the EOW probed the case for one-and-a-half years and arrested four company directors while 10 others are still at large.
 
 
 
