MANGALURU: With temperatures soaring, the city is heading towards another dry summer, however, the Mangaluru city corporation ( ) is fully geared up to ensure that uninterrupted drinking water is supplied to people in 60 wards of the city. A new dam of 7 metres height in   in Bantwal taluk, with a maximum storage level of 14.73 million cubic metres (MCM) has water at a level of 6 metres at present, which is sufficient for a minimum two months.

 The water level at the new dam, which was commissioned in December 2016, was maintained at five metres till December, 2017. Later, the water level at the dam was increased to 6 metres in January. The storage of water at a level of 6 metres as on Saturday, indicates that the city may not face a water crisis this summer.
 
 Mayor   said there will be no water rationing this summer, as the storage in Thumbe dam is sufficient for a minimum 60 days without inflow. “I have kept the promise made while assuming charge as the mayor of Mangaluru, by increasing the dam’s storage capacity. Chief minister Siddaramaiah has on Friday sanctioned Rs 15 crore as compensation to be distributed among farmers, whose fields have been submerged after the increase in the dam’s storage of water. This year, people will definitely not face a drinking water crisis, as the water stored in the dam is sufficient for 60 days, even if there is no inflow or pre-monsoon showers. However, people should use water judiciously,” Kavitha said, after offering ‘bagina’ to river Nethravati on Saturday.
 
 Mangaluru City South MLA J R Lobo said the government will also consider increasing the storage level at Thumbe dam to 7metres in the days to come. “We will face no water crisis with storage sufficient for 60 days, but the engineers of MCC should ensure that the distribution mechanism is scientific. Ensure that all citizens in the city have access to drinking water,” he added.
 
 MCC council ruling party chief whip Shashidhar Hegde said the dam caters to the water needs of Mangaluru, Ullal, Mulky and Haleyangadi. In addition, water is also being pumped to a few villages in Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks, unofficially. Provisions have been made to connect those villages with water connections, officially under Phase II of the Asian Development Bank (ADB) project, he added.
 
 
