CHANDIGARH:   has strongly opposed the anticipatory bail plea of M L Tayal, former Haryana bureaucrat and accused in Manesar land scam, on the grounds that he is a powerful person who may influence the witnesses, if released. 

 Tayal, along with former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and 32 others, has been asked to appear before the special CBI court Panchkula to face the prosecution in the scam. 
 
 Denying any political motive behind the case against him and others, the premier agency has also clarified that involvement of Tayal and other co-accused persons in the commission of crime has been fully established during investigation and on the basis of evidence — documentary and oral.
 
 CBI made these submissions through inspector Subhash Chander, anti-corruption branch of CBI, Chandigarh, before the special CBI court in Panchkula while strongly opposing the anticipatory bail plea of Tayal in the case. Former principal secretary Tayal, along with Hooda and 32 others, has been asked to appear before the special CBI court Panchkula on April 19 to face the prosecution in the case.
 
 In its detailed nine-page reply to Tayal’s bail plea, CBI has stated that in order to ascertain the “quid pro quo” in the case, investigation on the analysis of various bank accounts of various companies/accused persons and analysis of forensic data seized from the premises of ABW Infrastructure Limited and other places is still under progress. It also stated that a case regarding possession of huge disproportionate assets to the tune of around Rs 9.8 crore against Tayal and his family members is under investigation.
 
 “The accused is an influential person and may try to influence the witnesses, tamper with the evidence and may flee from justice, if he is granted anticipatory bail. Keeping in view of the facts and circumstances of the case... the petitioner does not deserve the concession of anticipatory bail and hence present petition be dismissed,” CBI has submitted.
 
 CBI has also referred to the recent   verdict ordering complete investigation in transactions including unearthing the unnatural gains received by middle man. It also submitted that Tayal, in conspiracy and connivance with co-accused persons, had intentionally and fraudulently allowed the notification of land acquisition to lapse and after that licence/change of land use (CLU) permissions were granted to the ineligible private builders/persons.
 
 The main allegation in the scam is that hundreds of acres of land acquired from farmers of Manesar and adjoining village in Gurgaon district at a low rate for “public purpose” was later licensed to real estate companies/builders/colonizers after bestowing out of term favours and concessions. On September 17, 2015, CBI had registered an FIR in relation to the scam and on February 2, it had submitted charges before the special CBI court against 34 persons.
 
 
