By- Pavan Rao K 

 BENGALURU: Stringent state policies on government and aided schools across Karnataka have resulted in the closure of a wing of one of Bengaluru’s oldest Kannada-medium institutions. 
 
 The Model School Education Society, Chamarajpet, shut down its Model High School last month, citing depleting student count and lack of government-appointed teachers. The school’s strength was down to a mere 90 in 2017-’18, across classes 8, 9 and 10.
 
 School secretary   told TOI: “Ten years ago, we had at least 9 to 10 teachers. But the strength reduced to four. In 2007, the commissioner of public instruction had given us an approval to recruit three more teachers but the appointments were never made.” The school boasts of alumni like   film actors   and the late Vishnuvardhan. 
 
 The students of three high school classes have been enrolled in nearby government schools but the 30 students of Classes 1 to 7 continue to attend school and two teachers appointed by the management tend to them.
 
 “There were more than 80 students in classes 1 to 7 last year. The number dipped to 30. The government has not appointed even one teacher. If this is the situation, how will Kannada-medium schools survive,” asked Kumar. 
 
 According to rules for aided schools, each class should have at least 25 students. However, Model School had 62 students in its high school: 16 in Class 8; 19 in Class 9 and 16 in Class 10.
 
 Kumar said last year, the school began receiving notices from the government asking it to either increase the rate of admissions or shut down. “Some schools in south region are being closed due to low student numbers. But this school was different from all other institutions. It has a history of serving the lower strata of society,” he said. 
 
 
 
 
 The Model School Education Society began as a nursery school in 1870. It was said to be the first Kannada-medium pre-primary school in Bengaluru. In 1957, it started primary, middle and high schools. Among the institution’s eminent guests were Prince Charles. The school also provided free education to orphans from BOSCO. “Once upon a time, students struggled to land seats in this school but now there is a dearth of takers,” Yadu Kumar rued.
 
