ITANAGAR: Much before the national deadline of October 2, 2019,   has become an open defecation free (ODF) state after its last three districts - Upper Subansiri, Siang and Changlang - were officially declared ODF on December 31 last year. It thus became only the second northeast state after Sikkim to achieve this status, an official report said here on Tuesday. 

 The   government had earlier set December 31 as its deadline for achieving the ODF status. The project, undertaken under Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin), has achieved its target after the state government decided to added Rs 8,000 to its budget for each toilet, raising the total cost of expenditure to Rs 20,000 per toilet. 
 
 "The herculean task has been possible because of the active support of the Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation. Constant monitoring by PHE and water supply minister  , the PHE commissioner, chief engineers, DCs, panchayat members, NGOs, youths and target beneficiaries was a great help. The undying spirit of team officials of the implementing agency of the state PHE and water supply department helped us complete the task," CM Khandu said.
 
 "I am personally overwhelmed to find people participating in construction of toilets even in remote villages along the international borders at Vijaynagar, Taksing, Pipsorang," Khandu added, pointing out that   Pradesh is all set to see the dawn of change as dreamt of by PM  .
 
 Minister Felix said, "We have finally won the battle and liberated ourselves from the open defecation menace. The tiring and rigorous fight was difficult but not impossible." He also thanked the chief minister, his cabinet colleagues, legislators and officials for achieving the target.
 
 Mentioning the tremendous effort put in by the department officers and officials, Felix pointed out that without their help, the task would have remained a distant dream. He, however, reminded everyone that the battle has not been won yet, as the way ahead is more treacherous and challenging. "We have to maintain the ODF status and not allow the menace of open defecation to raise its ugly head once again. This is indeed a very challenging task," he added.
 
 
