NAGPUR: “There is no difference between   and mathematics,” said Dr Tapan Chakravati, Chair professor at VNIT. He was the guest speaker on Monday afternoon at National Science Day celebrations by  , held at Guru  . “Without   we cannot survive. If there is no mathematics, there is no bio-informatics, if there is no bio-informatics, our studies will be limited, and spell the end,” he added, stressing on the fact that mathematics has to be integrated with all aspects of science.

 NU vice-chancellor SP Kane, dean of faculty of science and technology HD Juneja, registrar Puranchandra Meshram, Prof Manoj Rai, Prof GS Khadekar and Prof   were present.
 
 Chakravarti briefly touched upon few topics which he said need to assume focus in the field of science, and need to be worked upon. These are solar energy, biogas, gene therapy and carbon footprint, among others. Antibiotic resistance is a concept that should impel us to make new medicines. Along with controlling the population, we should also be able to reverse the ageing process. Moreover, we have to secure the cyberspace otherwise it will access one’s private details and have disastrous effects.
 
 Speaking of artificial intelligence and robotics, he said, “When I go to the farms, I see that we don’t have enough agricultural labourers. With little bit of money due to government programmes, people become complacent. In such cases, can we think of using robots and think of a robotic harvesting? It is possible, and an initiative like this has been taken in Kerela. They use robots for farming also,” said Chakravarti.
 
 He said that one must network with the pockets of excellence and make a product that can go to the market and solve our daily problems.
 
 “Our output should go to the poorest of the poor. Only then, practicing science will be useful,” he said, ending his speech by stating that no one can innovate as much as an Indian can.
 
 Kane also urged the students to ask questions such as why and how to understand a concept or problem.
 
 
