NEW DELHI: The   process at the   is set to get a lot smoother with plans afoot to set up e-clearance immigration gates, which could reduce waiting time for passengers to under a minute.

 
  
 
 The move, which could come to fruition in the next few months, was aimed at reducing queues at the airport, an official said. The technology, already adopted at several airports abroad, will be introduced on a trial basis and could reduce waiting time to as little as 15 seconds. 
 
 Officials said similar technology abroad could scan and read passport details while a camera detected a passenger’s face as he stood at the e-gate. The gates will   after scanning the details.
 
 The machine, however, will have to be fed with a database, which needs to be collected beforehand. “Low-risk travellers who have been approved and verified by agencies can be allowed to go through by the machine. A database will be made for travellers who go abroad often,” an official said.
 
 Sources said the gates would initially be tested at the arrivals section, following which it would be moved to departures as well. As many as 40 such gates could be installed this year.
 
 “The technology is already being used abroad. But it may still take some time to be installed. Two such gates may initially be tested before more are put up. A passenger ideally only spends 10-15 seconds on such machines,” said an official.
 
 Under the current process, manual stamping and checking of a passport takes close to 10 minutes per passenger. The Delhi airport last year handled 63.5 million passengers, making it the seventh busiest airport in Asia and the 20th busiest globally.
 
 IGI was recently declared the best airport in the world in terms of passengers’ experience under the Airport Service Quality (ASQ) 2017 rankings released by Airports Council International. It was ranked number one in the world in the highest category—airports with over 40 million passengers per annum. The airport surpassed the likes of Singapore’s Changi, Incheon and Bangkok airports in terms of passenger growth. 
 
 
