KOLKATA: Here’s some good news for Kolkata’s   drinkers: breweries in Bengal have resumed production and the first batch of fresh lager has already reached the   (Bevco)’s warehouses, which means that the city’s bars, pubs, off shops and clubs will be able to stock up on beer sooner than expected.

 
  
 
 But this will come at a price. Beer manufacturers have “reluctantly agreed to test” the government’s new pricing for a couple of months to see how sales are impacted by the stiff hike in price, which has been the result of a significant upward revision of excise duty.
 
 State excise department officials told TOI that Bengal’s breweries decided to resume production from Wednesday, after remaining inoperational for almost two months, following an assurance from the government that there would be a downward revision of the tax structure if there was a massive fall in demand because of the excise duty hike. “Beer makers have agreed to a two-month trial run,” a senior official said.
 
 But it still might take a week or two for supply to normalise, a leading retailer of spirits and beer said. “The market is now completely dry as far as beer is concerned. There is zero stock with most retailers, bars, clubs and hotels (except one brand of strong beer) and so it will take some time to build the inventory,” he added. “Demand is also very high during this season, which means there is extra pressure on makers,” he explained.
 
 The first brand to agree to the new regime and resume production was Haywards 5000, a strong beer; production started two weeks back at its Dankuni plant. 
 
 The unprecedented shortage of beer in the market was caused after every other maker in Bengal demanded at least a partial rollback of the excise duty hike. 
 
 These breweries (at Kalyani, which makes Kingfisher) and Dhanekhali (which produces Carlsberg and Tuborg) resumed production only on Friday. The Dankuni brewery also produces Budweiser. The three breweries cater to 95% of Bengal’s beer market, which consumes 1.2 crore cases annually (a case comprises 12 650-ml bottles or 24 330-ml bottles).
 
 A senior executive of a mutinational brewery said the state government met all beer producers a few days ago to work out the truce formula. “The state government has already revised the tax structure once after the initial hike. We have decided to start production because the peak beer season starts now. Let us see what happens,” he said.
 
 The majority of beer consumption in Bengal happens between March and July, accounting for almost 65% of the annual consumption. Strong beer accounts for almost 90% of the market in the state.
 
 
