BENGALURU: The ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has sought a fresh panel of names from the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore (IIMB) for the post of chairperson of its board of governors.

 The position has been vacant for one year now, after Biocon chief   ended her three-year term as IIMB chairperson last year. She had succeeded MukeshAmbani of RelianceIndustries.
 
 The search-cum-selection committeeof theinstituteheadedby Sabre Partners co-founder Rajiv Maliwal had suggested the names of renowned cardiac surgeon Dr Devi Shetty, Vikram Kirloskar of   and Vinita Bali, former managing director,  , for the post of the chairperson weeks ago, revealed sources familiar with the development. Bali is also currently a member of the board of governors.
 
 The current Memorandum of Association (MoA) for all IIMs dictates that a search-cum-selection panel put up the names of those shortlisted for the post, after which these names are approved by the board and then sent to the ministry of human resource development..
 
 Responding to TOI’s questions, IIMB director Prof G Raghuram said the ministry had not mentioned any reasons for rejecting the panel of names that were sent. “In their communication to us, the ministry has asked us to send a fresh panel of names for consideration as per rules,” said Prof Raghuram.
 
 With the new IIM Act in the pipeline, the term of the chairperson of the board of governors would also change from the previous three-year tenure to four years. Asked about the criteria of choosing the panel of names this time, the director replied, “They are people of eminence with an understanding of industry and academic institutions.”
 
 Withthe newIIMBill getting President Ram Nath Kovind’s nod, the MHRD is preparing rules for the Act. However, as per the provisions of theAct, the board of governors of each IIM would act as the principal executive body of theinstitute. Itwouldcompriseof 19 members and will be chaired by a person of eminence from thefieldof industry, education, science or technology, management or public administration. The board wouldbe given the powers to appoint the director of each IIM as well.
 
 
