KOCHI: The city faces a huge risk from over 500 tanker trucks that ply talong its roads daily, carrying hazardous material.

 On April 27 night, a gas tanker overturned at   and the residents in the area had to be evacuated fearing an explosion. Panic gripped the locality for over seven hours before the truck could be removed from the spot by the fire department.
 
 
  
 
 S Seetharaman, environmentalist and chemical scientist, said the city was taking a huge risk in allowing the movement of such vehicles.
 
 “The chemicals which are transported through the city are highly hazardous. Though some tankers have been taken off the street by laying pipelines, the situation continues to be grave,” he said.
 
 According to sources with the BPCL, the number of tanker trucks with LPG bullets that passes through the city is over 100. This was after a pipeline established between the   and the IOC bottling plant in   took many as 40 such trucks off the road.
 
 C R Surendranath, former deputy chief controller of explosives, said a permanent solution is to make the IOC import terminal at   a reality.
 
 “The transportation of LPG should be done completely via pipeline and once the import terminal becomes a reality it would result in these trucks going off the road,” said Surendranath.
 
 Seetharaman said the truck drivers should be given training. “The drivers should know what they are handling. Apart from giving awareness to them, the trucks must be regularly inspected to avoid a possible leak,” he said.
 
 Apart from petroleum products, other hazardous chemicals are also being moved through the city. With companies like   (TCC), Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore Limited (FACT) and the Kochi Refinery located in the region, over 400 tanker trucks carrying chemicals move through the city every day.
 
 According to experts, around 120 such trucks carry sulfuric acid and hydrochloric acid. There are at least 50 trucks that carry phosphoric acid and 150 that transport sodium hydroxide. The number of ammonia tankers is estimated to be around 50 while there are at least 15 tankers carrying sodium hypochlorite.
 
 “A massive gas leak would be uncontrollable. Ammonia can be controlled by pumping water only if the leak is minor. If something happens to the container capsule, a massive leak would happen and the aftermath would be devastating,” said Seetharaman.
 
 He said the gravity of a tragedy would depend on the location of a possible accident. “If an accident and a subsequent blast or a major leak happens in a residential area, like somewhere in Kakkanad, then there wouldn’t be even enough time to evacuate the residents,” said Seetharaman.
 
 Commenting on the transportation of extremely hazardous chemicals like hydrochloric acid and sulphuric acid, Surendranath said that there was a need for a specified body to monitor the movement of these trucks.
 
 “PESO (Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation) is mostly responsible for petroleum goods and compressed gases like ammonia. However, there is no proper body to monitor the transportation of extremely hazardous chemicals like hydrochloric acid. Checking by regional transport office wouldn’t be sufficient to ensure the safety of these trucks,” he said.
 
 Fatalities have already been reported due to chemical leaks in the city. In November 2016, two men were killed at the Hindustan Insecticides Limited after carbon disulphide leak.
 
 The accident happened while the chemical was being transferred to a storage tanker at the plant. Two fire safety personnel were grievously injured in the ammonia leak at   in January.
 
