LUCKNOW: The district administration has turned down at least 30 requests for wedding functions in and around   ( ) in the period from February 15 to 23.

 Out of 30 requests that have been turned down, 10 were for venue on the IGP campus, while 20 were for places within 1 km radius. Meanwhile, over 450 wedding ceremonies will be held in Lucknow on these two days in other parts of the city. They include more than 100 in   itself.
 
 
 According to additional district magistrate (trans-Gomti) Anil Kumar, administration has denied requests for celebration on IGP campus between February 15 to February 23 because of the summit and its preparations, whiles wedding lawns, hotels and banquet halls within 1km radius of the IGP have been asked not give venues on rent on February 21 and 22 due to security reasons because the summit will be attended by the prime minister, UP chief minister, delegates from foreign countries and chief executive officers (CEOs) from across the country and abroad.
 
 Disappointed by denial, applicants are looking for other venues.
 
  a resident of   khand in Gomtinagar said, “I was seeking for the permission to organise the wedding of my daughter in IGP on February 20, but I was denied. Officials told me about the UP summit program of government. So I have booked a banquet hall near polytechnic.”
 
 Ratan Kishore a resident of Alambagh said, “I was forced to book a wedding hall in   due to the ongoing Summit. I went to book a ceremony lawn which is nearest to Indira Gandhi Pratishthan for my cousin’s wedding, but the lawn owner refused to book the hall.
 
 When contacted, lawn owner Shankar Dayal, he said, that due to the security reasons, he has been asked by the administration not to book any ceremony on 21and 22.
 
 Speaking to TOI, wedding planner and decorator   said, “I am forced to refuse over 10 wedding contracts from February 15 till now, of which three of IGP while seven were for other nearby lawns in Vibhuti Khand. This has caused huge losses.”
 
