When  , surrounded by three baby dragons, emerged unhurt from the pyre in the finale of the first season of ‘Game of Thrones’, the world couldn’t wait for the next season. Back home, there was a similar situation when Yogiraj predicted that ichchhadhari   Shivanya and her human husband would have a child. People couldn’t contain their excitement for the next season. And just like season one, ‘Naagin 2’ ruled the TRP charts. TV shows with seasons have been around for a long time, but the recent bug that has bitten the Indian telly world is the spin-off game. We have seen an umpteen number of hit spin-offs in recent times, but the list of flops is also quite long. With around a dozen TV shows spawning their spin-offs, we speak to their actors about what made them work.

  
  
 
 
 
  Only a few fortunate series get to spawn a successful spin-off and ‘Dil Boley Oberoi’ (DBO) is one of them. An extension of the popular show ‘Ishqbaaaz’, ‘DBO’ saw the love story of Omkara Oberoi ( ) – one of the three Oberoi brothers’ – flourish. Thanks to Kunal’s massive female fan following, the makers decided to run both the shows simultaneously. The gamble worked and the show did decently well. When we ask Kunal about the spin-off, he tells us, “Spin-offs as a trend have come to India now. It has always been there in the west. ‘Ishqbaaaz’ had three stories running together and just 20 minutes couldn’t do justice to all three. That’s how the idea of ‘Dil Boley Oberoi’ came. The show came through beautifully. And it was of course amazing to have my own story and see my character grow.”
 
  
  Spin-off: 'Tu Sooraj, Main Saanjh Piyaji' and original: 'Diya Aur Baati Hum'
 
 
 
 
  Spun from the popular show ‘Diya Aur Baati Hum’, ‘Tu Sooraj, Main Saanjh Piyaji’ (TSMSP) had big shoes to fill. If TRPs are anything to go by, then the show is doing fairly well. Neelu Vaghela’s character Bhabo was a part of the first season and has a strong part in ‘TSMSP’ as well. Ask her about the spin-off game and she says, “When the makers approached me for ‘TSMSP’, I didn’t have to think twice. I would definitely go for a third spin-off too, if it is made. The concept is women-centric, much like the first season. I feel, if a show has the potential to attract TRPs through a spin-off, then why shouldn’t it? It is very much needed in today’s time. ‘TSMSP’ is running so well. I think a spin-off was a great idea by the makers. Bhabo has been the best character I have played till now. I have always enjoyed playing this character and it has been a turning point in my career. Spin-offs also give an opportunity to evolve as an actor.”
 
  
  Spin-off: ' ' and original: ' '
 
 
 
 
  ‘Kumkum Bhagya’ won over Indian households everywhere. It’s not surprising then that the makers thought of having a spin-off run simultaneously. Led by Dheeraj Dhoopar, Shraddha Arya, Manit Joura and Anjum Fakih, the spin-off ‘Kundali Bhagya’ managed to snag a spot on the list top five shows on TV a few weeks after its premiere. 
 Talking about having the spin-off run simultaneously, Dheeraj tells us, “It is a good strategy to pull in more fans. Although you divide the stories, it doesn’t reduce the effort. There is an added pressure to live up to the parent show, especially when the parent show is number one. But I think one should make use of that to pull-off another successful show. I mean, why not? Spin-off is a tactical brilliance to garner more fan following. I personally think we should do more spin-offs. It is a win-win situation for the makers and the actors.”
  
  
  Spin-off: 'Laado -  ' and original: 'Na Aana Iss Des Laado'
 
  
 
 
 Spin-offs are also risky to pull-off in the television world. Branched out from the sensational show ‘Na Aana Iss Des Laado’, ‘Laado – Veerpur Ki Mardani’ saw many characters dying in only three to four months. TV janta got a shock when its protagonist Ammaji – played by   – died. What made her exit the spin-off she was so excitedly waiting for? “The idea of a spin-off was exciting, I was looking forward to ‘Laado – Veerpur Ki Mardani’. The audience wanted to see Ammaji again and that’s how it was thought about. But what was narrated to me was not there. They made a progressive story into a regressive one. The writers could not take the pressure. The idea was to show the strong woman of today, but as it always happens, they went into regression and romance. And I think in that confused female setup, Ammaji didn’t have space.” Meghna asserts that no spin-off can work without proper homework. She says, “When you have a spin-off, you need to put in extra effort to make it stronger. Your paperwork and your ground work has to be good, otherwise it is going to fall flat, which is what has happened with it.”
 
  
  Spin-off: 'Shrimaan Shrimati Phir Se' and original: 'Shrimaan Shrimati
 
  
 
 
  With its dexterously-written dialogues, the ’90s sitcom ‘Shrimaan Shrimati’ gave everyone some genuine fits of laughter. And when the reports of ‘Shrimaan Shrimati Phir Se’ surfaced, everyone was gearing up for round two. While the show isn’t a direct spin-off, in traditional sense, it has managed to create a buzz among the viewers.  , one of the lead actors from the show, tells us, “Although I am doing a spin-off, I would prefer a show to run for a long time. Spin-offs work sometimes. And when they don’t work, then for the betterment of the show, creative inputs change and the originality goes. That’s when the mess starts happening. They try to mix everything and end up confusing the audience. My show (‘Shrimaan Shrimati Phir Se’) right now is doing average. I mean, people are liking it, they enjoy the show, but the older audience is comparing the characters with the earlier ones. I think when you have nothing to compare it to, it’s easier for audience to accept the show.”
 Sucheta plays Koki, Reema Lagoo’s character from the first season. “My character is a typical Maharastrian housewife who shares a friendly relationship with her husband. It is essentially similar to Reemaji’s character, we haven’t budged much. I was very close to Reemaji. We did ‘Kadvee Khatti Meethi’ together. She played my dadi saas there. So this show is very dear to me. It’s my tribute to her,” she shares.
  
 - Unnati.Joshi@timesgroup.com
 
 
