MADURAI: Two groups of 37 trekkers, including 26 women and three children, got trapped in a   in the Kurangani hills near   in   district on Sunday. Preliminary reports said five of them are dead and some are missing. However, the Theni administration has ruled out any deaths and said some have suffered burns.

 An IAF commando team equipped with GPS gadgets has joined police, fire service and forest personnel in the massive rescue operations which are continuing through the night.Union Defence minister Nirmala Seetharaman tweeted around 11 pm that the IAF commando team would trek to the spot where the trekkers are trapped. 
  
 
 The team will also explore the option of reaching the spot in choppers and climbing down using ropes.
 
 A Chennai-based trekking club had organised the expedition from
 
 Kozhukkumalai to Bodi in the Western Ghats. A 24-member group had gone from Chennai. The two groups started the trek on Friday night and reached the Kerala side of the forest by Saturday. They started the trek from Kozhukkumalai on the   border on Sunday morning. They were supposed to reach Bodi by evening and travel back to Chennai from Theni. However, by afternoon the trekkers were caught in the forest fire.
 
 The forest department is clueless about the expedition because the club had not obtained its permission for the trek. Conservator of forest, Madurai circle, R K Jegania said it was an illegal trekking expedition. “As preliminary information, we have learnt that five trekkers are dead and some are missing. Our staff members are coordinating the rescue operations uphill,” he said.
 
 Forest department sources said from the spot that they were trying their best to bring the injured downhill. Around 16 of them have been taken to different places. The night is becoming chill and they have been covered with blankets. “First aid teams have come up, and we are attending to the injured persons. We are trying to take them down with the help of local villagers, but the task is challenging,” a forest department staff member said.
 
 Theni district superintendent of police Baskaran said the focus is now on rescue measures. “They are caught in between, requiring a 12km trek. There is no doubt strict measures will be taken against the organisers of this trek, but our focus now is rescue of all injured trekkers,” he said.
 
 Theni collector Pallavi Baldev told journalists that all govt machinery has been pressed into action. Rescue operations have been expedited.
 
 “As of now, I have not got any information on loss of life. Fifteen people have suffered burn injuries,” she said.
 
 She said the group reached Kozhukkumalai on Saturday morning and camped in an estate. They were returning when the forest fire broke out. The group panicked and got scattered.
 
 Talking to reporters in Salem, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said the government would order a probe into the trekking expedition organised by the Chennai-based club without approval from the forest department.
 
 He said the government is taking all efforts to rescue the trekkers. “The state government has approached the Union defence minister for assistance in rescue efforts. Helicopters have been pressed into service,” he said.
 
 R Vijayalakshmi, an employee of IT firm Cognizant, who was in the group said they spotted the fire less than 100 yards away.
 
 She told TOI on the phone that until they saw it up close they had no idea that a fire was raging in the hills.
 
 "Within moments the fire encircled us. We panicked. Some in the group, including me, started running uphill," she said."I jumped over a small rock and hid under it. There were two others who fell over me but they suffered worse burn injuries," she said.
 
 As the summer has set in, forest fires have been reported in the region in the past one month. Forest department employees have been fighting the fires off and on. “This trekking expedition is illegal and they did not know the local forests. We appeal to the public to exercise caution while taking out such trekking and check if the organisers have obtained prior permission,” said Jegania.
 
 
