CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a notice to the Punjab government on a petition filed by   seeking cash awards, as declared by the state for those who participated in 6th World   Cup in 2016.

 
 According to the petition filed by several players, who had participated in the event held in November 2016, they had not been paid the award money for the past one and a half years.
 
 “The counsel for the petitioners, contends that the director sports-cum-secretary, Punjab state sports council, while replying to the legal notice, sent on November 13, 2017 of the petitioner, has admitted that the petitioners deserve the prize money but the same was not disbursed on the ground that the funds are not available,” observed the HC in its orders. The court directed the state to respond to the issue by July 18.
 
 The matter reached the HC in the wake of a petition filed by   and nine others, including women players, from the state of Punjab and Haryana against the non-payment of award money.
 
 The petitioners’ counsel   argued that his cleints were kabaddi players and had represented the men’s and women’s teams of India in the Kabaddi World Cup held in November 2016. Both teams had won the first place in their respective categories and were aggrieved by the non-payment of prize money and other incentives promised to them by the Punjab government.
 
 “Kabaddi is a very demanding sport, both physically and financially. The players have to train for years together and spend huge amounts on diet too, in order to make their mark in the sport. However, due to the indifferent and regressive approach of the Punjab government, they get dejected. Shockingly, they have not been paid a single rupee till date,” Sidhu argued.
 
 The state government had announced to pay Rs 2 crore, Rs 1 crore and Rs 52 lakh for the men’s team securing the first, second and third position respectively. Similarly, an award of Rs 1 crore, Rs 51 lakh and Rs 25 lakh was announced for the women’s team securing first, second and third position.
 
