It’s been close to two weeks since French filmmaker Jérôme Salle issued a legal notice to the makers of Pawan Kalyan’s Agnyaathavaasi, contending that the film is a copy of his 2008 film Largo Winch. Admittedly, the Tollywood production house is yet to respond to the notice. Now, the French filmmaker is intent on dragging them to court. “My lawyer sent a legal notice to   creations and this is the first step. If I don’t get a valuable answer from them, we will move forward.   has not just been released in India, but also in France and the US. We’ll decide where our action will take place. Haarika Haasine Creations should think twice before they plan to release their upcoming movies in France and the US also,” said Jereome, speaking exculsively to Hyderabad Times. Excerpts. 

 
 On Twitter. reading tweets about a new Indian film similar to Largo (Winch), I first thought it was the remake that we sold months ago to T Series. I was both curious and enthusiastic at first, but then I realised it was another production house that hadn’t even gotten in touch with us. So of course, I was a little bit surprised! I always try to be positive and give the benefit of doubt, despite rumours. But after watching Agnyaathavaasi, I was more disappointed than surprised. But I wasn’t angry then. It’s the silence on this issue since nearly one month now which makes me angry.
 
 
 I was really curious to watch the film because I kept reading in the press that Agnyaathavaasi was really similar to Largo. But you know such rumours kick up often and people enjoy bashing a big production before its release. So I was cautious and circumspect about all these allegations. But when I learnt that the film was going to be screened in Paris, I did not hesitate. The atmosphere in the theatre was so great; it was enthusiastic and fun. I think I was the only French guy in the room too! I enjoyed that. But I didn’t really enjoy the movie because there are too many similarities to my own film — it’s not just the storyline, but also the sets, like the terrace where the last fight takes place. That’s unforgivable!
 
 
 I never tried to reach them because they should have tried to reach me! And by the way, they know where to find me if they have an explanation for me, because I don’t think their silence is a smart option. In December, Largo’s production company in France got in touch with T-Series about this issue and T-series kept them informed about the legal notice they had also sent to Haarika Haasinee Creations. But now we hear that a settlement of sorts has been made between the two Indian companies. Despite many mails and letters, we haven’t got any response or explanation about this rumoured settlement. 
 
 
 Yes, but because of the agreement they signed with T-Series, they’re committed not to sell it. 
 
 
 As I just said, I think silence is not an option. I will not give up until I have a clear explanation. It’s not a matter of money, not at all; it’s a matter of principle. If Agnyaathavaasi makers want to talk, if they want to clarify and, who knows, even apologise... there’s still time. Let’s hope Agnyaathavaasi makers will understand my state of mind — single-minded.
 
 
 I love Indian films. You have so many wonderful actors or directors with a wide range of style, from   to SS Rajamouli and so many others. I think there’s amazing creativity in India and your industry — Bollywood, Tollywood, Kollywood — are one of the most significant in the world. I admire and respect the Indian movie industry and its creativity and that’s why I don’t think ‘freemake’ is an option. This is of course dishonest and unnecessary as there are plenty of talented people in India. For sure, many young screenwriters are just waiting to have an opportunity to showcase their 
 talent. 
 
 
 
 
