It might sound strange to many, youngsters in particular, that I am a holder of a matriculation certificate, which was issued by the   (PU). For, until the early sixties, in undivided Punjab, the high school examinations were used to be conducted by  .

 Mind it, in those days, this certificate could get one a base level clerical job in a government office that could graduate, by the end of one's career, to an undersecretary level high posting.
 
 It may also come as a surprise to many that during those days, the PU graduates, who used to score less, in comparison to the high school pass-outs, would prominently suffix BA or BSc on their name plates, which they would display with peculiar pride. 
 
 And why not? This is because during those days, even a PU graduate, who scored less marks, particularly in the science stream, would get a job of a school teacher easily. However, both a high school certificate and bachelor's degree today are nothing but qualifying documents to help students get admissions heading into higher education.
 
 It is in this context that one gets surprised to know of an important area where even the graduates of this varsity still have their say. A PU graduate can play a major role in electing the governing bodies of the university. Since the relocation of PU from Lahore to our side of Punjab, after the Partition of India, the varsity has undergone many changes. 
 
 While quite a chunk of high school students got disaffiliated due to the advent of separate school boards, its physical expanse got reduced because of the second divide of the state of Punjab in 1964. However, it did grow, admirably well, in its educational brilliance, particularly in high-end academic research areas.
 
 Sadly enough, the university did not change or amend its dated calendar, which was set more than 70 years ago. This calendar contains definite directional statutes, for both the running of the academic and administrative affairs of the university, and constituting/electing its chief governing bodies, namely the senate and the syndicate.
 
 Although some sporadic attempts were made to bring in amendments into the seemingly static varsity calendar to match the always in flux academic atmosphere, the politically inclined vested interests did not allow any change to take place.
 
 No wonder when the current vice chancellor of the university, Arun Kumar Grover, filed an affidavit, in the Punjab and Haryana high court in his individual capacity, highlighting some seemingly valid reasons to bring changes in the varsity calendar, a loud ruckus was created.
 
 It needs to be recalled here that even the National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAC) had observed in 2015 that," the governance structure (of the varsity) formed in the Act and Statutes needs to be revised".
 
 There is perhaps nothing wrong in Arun Grover's statement in the affidavit which says, "The governing structure of the PU needs a serious reform. The groupism in the senate has reached such a sorry state that discussions do not happen on merit and factionalism prevails".
 
 While the vice chancellor has submitted in detail to vindicate his assertions, the one particular issue he has raised against the continuation of the Graduate Constituency, which elects as many as 15 senators, is worth pondering.
 
 Surprisingly enough, the past record of four elections to the Graduate Constituency affirms that the winning candidate requires only two to three thousand votes, about 1 % of the total electorate and about 4 % of the votes polled. On top of it, the electoral rolls of this monumental constituency have not been reviewed or cross-checked for long. Also, the university "does not have the wherewithal to engage in undertaking such an exercise".
 
 No wonder that only 'seasoned' candidates, who allegedly enroll the voters by themselves, can get themselves elected. It is not an easy go for any genuine and apolitical contestant to manage 270 polling booths, spread over the whole of undivided Punjab, Jammu and Uttarakhand.
 
 It is high time that the varsity, after consulting seasoned academicians, gets its calendar restructured so that educationists, and not politicians, man the varsity affairs as per the ever in flux learning requirements.
 
  Balvinder is the former principal of Government College, Sector 11, Chandigarh 
 
 
