Nagpur: The overzealous Katol MLA, Ashish Deshmukh, seems to have brought the uneasy ties between ruling allies BJP and Shiv Sena to the brink by meeting Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray at Matoshree on Wednesday. Thackeray has put chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in a spot by taking the stand that he would support holding the monsoon session of state legislature in Nagpur (instead of Mumbai), if Fadnavis agrees to shift the proposed crude oil refinery at Nanar on the Konkan coast to Vidarbha. The first-time BJP MLA went of his own volition to meet Thackeray to discuss the proposed Nanar refinery plant as well as convening of the monsoon session in Nagpur from July 4. The ruling partners differ on both issues. But now, Thackeray has created fresh problems for the CM by linking the two issues. Deshmukh said he met Thackeray to thank him on behalf of two crore Vidarbha residents, for supporting his demand to shift the location of what he claimed was the world’s biggest crude oil refinery from the Konkan coast to Vidarbha. “Thackeray, during his visit to Nanar this week, had said that looking at public resistance at Nanar it would be better if it is shifted to Vidarbha. This way, the Rs3 lakh crore investment would remain in the state. Residents are opposing the refinery there citing environmental reasons, and for political reasons the Sena is supporting them,” said Deshmukh. Fadnavis is at loggerheads with Sena leaders over the proposed crude oil refinery, and till date has shown no inclination to change the location. He even ticked off industries minister Subhash Desai publicly for unilaterally announcing in front of Nanar residents in Thackeray’s presence that he had cancelled the notification for land acquisition for the proposed refinery. Meanwhile, the cabinet subcommittee formed to decide if the monsoon session could be held at Nagpur has given its approval for the change, and has forwarded the recommendation to the presiding officers of both the houses. But Thackeray, at a public rally in Aurangabad, questioned the utility of a session at Nagpur, saying important decisions related to Vidarbha can be taken at Mumbai and there was no need to shift the venue. Now, by linking the different issues, Thackeray has once again created an embarrassing situation for Fadnavis, and the young MLA from Katol has been used as the tool for it.