BHUBANESWAR: The   Is gearing up for  's forthcoming two-day visit to the state, beginning April 4 when he is expected to set the tone for the   for  , due next year. 

 The saffron outfit on Sunday conducted bhoomi puja (worship of the ground) at Lal Bahadur Shastri stadium in Bhawanipatna and Koshal Kala Mandal field in Balangir where the BJP chief will hold meetings, called 'Mission Nua Odisha'.
 
 Shah will hold a public rally in Bhawanipatna on April 4 and address party workers from six Lok Sabha constituencies in western Odisha (Bargarh, Balangir, Sambalpur, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur and Sundargarh) on April 5. 
 
 "At least 20,000 workers from these Lok Sabha seats will be coming to Balangir," BJP legislature party leader K V Singhdeo said. Sundargarh was the only LS seat won by BJP in 2014 from among 21 in the state.
 
 Shah's main thrust would be to attract Congress supporters to his party. Given the leadership crisis in Congress and its declining electoral fortune, as is evident in panchayat elections last year and Bijepur bypoll this year, the assessment is that the party, whether BJD or BJP, that manages to attract Congress votes will win the polls, said an analyst. BJP insiders said phone numbers and contact details of the workers, starting from booth-level, who would attend the Balangir meeting, are being compiled. This would help reach out to them constantly for 'assignments' to be given in the run-up to the polls. Despite the recent defeat in Bijepur bypoll, the BJP still strongly feels it can overthrow the Naveen Patnaik government in 2019 given the strong anti-incumbency it has earned, a party source said.
 
 Shah will renew the 'Mission 120 Plus,' the target to win more than 120 of the 147 assembly seats. He had earlier said his party's golden age would not come till the BJP wins Odisha, Bengal and Kerala. The fact that Odisha is on BJP radar can be gauged from the fact that Shah has visited the state six times since BJP came to power at the Centre in 2014.
 
 
