Amaravati: The fate of the prestigious Amaravati-Anantapur national expressway is hanging in balance as the Centre has backtracked from its promise of fully funding the project, including the land acquisition cost. The proposed expressway is a dream project of chief minister Chandrababu Naidu to provide easy connectivity to the Rayalaseema region with the capital city.

 In fact, it is considered to be the first and only national highway designed as straight lane highway in the country. The entire highway covers a distance of nearly 371km without any curves.
 
 Union ministry of road transport and highways, which initially agreed to grant 100% funding to the project as one-time gift to Andhra Pradesh, has recently communicated it will take up the project only if the state provides land.
 
 The state government is in a piquant situation on going for land acquisition as it will require nearly Rs 2,500crore-Rs 4,000 crore to complete the process.
 
 Besides, opposition from the farmers to part with the land is also expected to derail the plan. Already, farmers associations in Guntur, Prakasam, Kadapa and Kurnool have started agitations opposing the land acquisition.
 
 “We do not need a straight-lane highway at the cost of farmers losing massive extent of lands,” said former minister and farmers leader Vadde Sobhanadreswara Rao. “No highway in the world has been designed in a straight lane. This project has been conceived to benefit the contractors.” 
 
 To avoid the delay in land acquisition, the state government is also mulling land pooling schemes (LPS), similar to the ones implemented in the capital city area. The government will have to acquire over 27,000 acres, including 1,517 acres of forest land in four districts. In Guntur district alone, it needs to take over about 7,000 acres from the farmers.
 
 Field level surveys and peg marking of the land required for expressway have been recently completed, and district administrations are awaiting the final go-ahead from the state government. 
 
 The Andhra Pradesh government has readied a detailed project report (DPR) and submitted it to the Centre for immediate launch of works. 
 
 As per the DPR, the expressway has been designed for a speed of 120-140 kmph with straight alignments, avoiding habitations and other obstructions. Tunnels and viaducts have also been included in the design to negotiate hilly terrains and valley sections.
 
 
