NAVI MUMBAI: The final report of the baseline survey of birds around the proposed   by Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) has suggested that surviving wetland areas, where thousands of local and migratory birds can be seen, must be protected to ensure that air disasters like bird hits do not occur when the   is operational.

 The executive summary of the   spanning 60 months stated that the remaining wetlands, such as at T S Chanakya and behind NRI Complex (Seawoods Estate) along Palm Beach Road, and Funde-Panje mudflats in Uran, must be strictly protected as important bird habitats to minimize the risk of bird hits at the new international airport.
 
 “These are the only areas left for birds to roost during high tide, outside the proposed airport zone. In the absence of such measures, there is a high risk of birds congregating on open runways and spaces of the proposed airport area, which may result in bird hazard problems,” stated the final report, recently presented to Cidco, the nodal agency in-charge of the airport project.
 
 The study stated that near threatened congregatory species like the Lesser Flamingos and Eurasian Curlews were moving away from the seashore to the three inland wetlands during high tide. The movement of these tidal birds was very high during high tide, and they congregate at the inland sites to feed and rest.
 
 “During 2012-16, on an average, we used to count 40,000-50,000 birds in a single day and the maximum was about 100,000 on a single day,” stated the report, stressing that from October-November to April-May, the birds were much more due to the presence of winter migrants. Hence, utmost care has to be taken during high tide and winter to avoid bird hit calamities.
 
 Environmentalist Debi Goenka of Conservation Action Trust said, “The site chosen for the airport is an environmental disaster. It is also a huge   risk since the airport is surrounded by bird-rich habitats on all sides. As the BNHS report reveals, there is a huge risk of bird strikes. It is therefore quite certain that no airline will use the airport that poses a serious risk to passengers and aircraft. It is imperative the CM and PM review the location of this proposed international airport before more public funds are wasted on destroying the environment at this site.”
 
 Environmentalist D Stalin of the NGO Vanashakti told TOI: “Navi Mumbai citizens are fighting a court battle to protect the bird-rich habitat at Seawoods, next to Palm Beach Road, from being converted into a proposed golf course. The next hearing in the high court is on February 7. It is sad and unfortunate to see precious wetlands and bird habitats being converted into sterilized man-made parks like this proposed golf course.”
 
 Stalin added that even in the proposed golf course case, BNHS stated that the wetland must not be changed into a golf course or clubhouse, as it will affect birds there.
 
 Cidco general manager (environment) D R Patil said, “I have not yet read the final report but we will look into the issue. The golf course issue is in court, we shall abide by the final court order.”
 
 
