Chennai: Though the Centre’s green clearance for the India-based   Observatory (INO) project in   may be the result of the unrelenting efforts of scientists for more than a decade, the travails of INO are far from over. Scare-mongering and false allegations about the project continue to build up with fresh rounds of protests backed by some political parties.

 Devoid of the misconceptions, INO is a basic science programme, without any commercial motivation. One of the several theories floating against INO is the fear that the laboratory research may cause radiation. Neutrinos are weakly interacting elementary particles that pass through any material as though it is transparent. The neutrinos at the Theni detector will be harmless. When scientists analyse potential   problem from neutrino factories or muon (elementary particle) colliders, they are talking about accelerators with protons and muons that decay to give neutrinos. These muons decay within several metres of their production site, and so this region, close to the accelerator, must be shielded. But neutrinos themselves hardly interact. INO is going to be a non-accelerator-based research that will detect naturally occurring cosmic ray neutrinos. If it is accelerator-based, the accelerator will be in the US or Europe like Fermi Lab or CERN. 
 
 Though INO does not have any proposal now to detect neutrinos from Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory, in Chicago, it must be stressed that it is not a crime to collaborate with Fermi Lab in the US, Rutherford Lab in the UK, or CERN in Switzerland, or with China, Russia and Japan. These are well-recognised centres of research in the area of High Energy Physics. In this age, where collaborative research spanning several countries is the norm, it will be naive to isolate ourselves.
 
 There are also fears that INO will store nuclear waste, this is despite the funding agencies asserting several times that there is no such proposal. In fact nuclear waste stored at the site will render the whole experiment meaningless. This is because nuclear waste gives large signals, much more than what few neutrinos produce, and so in their presence neutrinos cannot be identified.
 
 Another issue raised by the protesters is that construction of tunnels will affect dams and the   table. Consider this, when tunnels are built for railways and hydroelectric projects without damaging structures in the vicinity how will a 2km tunnel create an impact? A case in point are the hydroelectric power stations at Mullaiperiyar and Idukki, which were built through tunnelling much later than the reservoirs. Furthermore, it has been confirmed by V Balachandran, retired DDG, Geological Survey of India that Bodi Hills are made of granite and has no aquifers. 
 
 The water allocation for the project — 3.4 lakh litres of water per day — may seem like a huge quantity but in reality, it amounts to 0.004 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) per year, which is a miniscule percentage of the water TN gets from the Mullaiperiyar reservoir (25TMC). Surely, the water used here will not reduce supply for agriculture purposes. Moreover, since most of the water is to cool the detector, by efficient recycling, the actual requirement can be much lesser.
 
 After much wrangling and the National Green Tribunal keeping in abeyance the clearance given by MoEF, INO proponents were asked to seek approval again. Though construction activity does not need environmental appraisal, according to the classifications of MoEF, but proponents of INO got it with an agency working under MoEF. All the requirements for the clearance including geotechnical analysis were scrupulously followed. It also does not need a public hearing, but meetings were organised by district authorities to allay apprehensions of people. The INO team has also been conducting outreach programmes in Madurai and Theni with the support of Tamil Nadu Science Forum. At present, INO has been told to obtain clearances for Mathikettan Shola which is about 4.9km from the site.
 
 While controversies make the situation complex, the project is essentially a pursuit to enhance local academic activities and is an attempt to understand nature and its laws. When scientists come up with findings at INO in the future, it will benefit society, but it is difficult to predict in what way.
 
 The knowledge gained about neutrinos can tell about the internal structures of earth and perhaps help in earthquake prediction. It will enhance our knowledge of stars and galaxies. For example, CERN which was involved in the Higgs Boson search was instrumental in developing the world wide web, which has changed society forever. Can we imagine our world without that? This is a time when people need to give science and scientists a chance.
 
 (T R Govindarajan is a professor at Chennai Mathematical Institute and emeritus, Institute of Mathematical Sciences. S Krishnaswamy is a retired senior professor, Madurai Kamaraj University)
 
 
