AJMER: Both BJP and   are not leaving any stone unturned in the last leg of campaigning for   bypolls.

 Chief minister   and Niharika Raje are expected to start their campaign from Dudu on Monday. Niharika belongs to Gujjar community which has a large voter base in Ajmer. BJP president Amit   is also expected to conduct a roadshow on January 27, the last day of campaigning for the bypolls. Banners, flags and processions can be seen all through the constituency and both parties are using caps and mufflers for campaign purpose. Groups of supporters start their work early in the morning and continue till late night, moving from street to street. Lists of voters in various areas are also being prepared to keep a watch on the polling day. The Ajmer bypoll is a major challenge for Congress and, therefore, PCC chief   is campaigning along with candidate Raghu Sharma from village to village. Though he took a day's break to campaign in Alwar and Mandalgarh, the Congress leader is spending most of his time in Ajmer.
 
 Pilot went to Sabji Mandi in Ajmer on Sunday and asked for votes. Congress leaders were rarely seen in party offices as they were on the field and campaigning in different parts of the district.
 
 Daily reports from various regions are being monitored by Pilot himself and the party has decided to hold a 'maha' roadshow on January 27 in the whole district. The party's campaign focuses on issues such as inflation, hike in water and electric bills and corruption in governance. Meanwhile, during her two-day visit of Ajmer, Raje tried to dent the Congress vote bank by meeting Brahmins and Gujjar leaders. She also took feedback and was assured by all MLAs that the party was leading in the constituency.
 
 The Bhamashah card scheme also figures in the campaign and BJP cadre are trying their best to convince rural voters on how the card would help in receiving medical treatment from private hospitals as well as avail pension and ration. About half-a-dozen of Raje's ministers come to Ajmer daily and speak at meetings of their communities and castes. This time BJP is totally concentrating on wooing caste and sub-caste leaders and many feel honoured that the CM herself has come to speak to them.
 
 The Congress is sticking to their old pattern and meeting Bar Association members of Ajmer district, roadways union and other workers' associations in support of their candidate.
 
 
