KOCHI: In a bid to address the lack of availability of trained home nurses,   and Family Welfare is set to start two new short-term courses - christened Home Health Aide and Geriatric Care Assistants. Specially-trained doctors will impart classes to   and   workers on taking care of bedridden patients and those with chronic illnesses as part of the programmes. 

 The institute will soon issue a notification inviting applicants for the short-term course being started as per the instructions of the Union ministry of health and family welfare.
 
  "On successful completion of the courses, they (candidates) will be given a certificate jointly issued by the Union health and family welfare ministry and Kerala State Institute for Health and Family Welfare. The government also plans to liaison with government and private hospitals, so that the hospital authorities can suggest deploying the trained hands for taking care of patients," an official associated with the institute said. The names of those passed the two-month courses would be registered with district employment exchanges as well, he added. The qualification for candidates to apply for the courses is Plus Two, preferably with science as elective.
 
  "Unavailability of trained hands for looking after bedridden-patients is a big problem faced by many families. The life expectancy of a Keralite is 10years more as compared to those from other states. Many including doctors frequently ask us whether trained hands are available," a doctor associated with the project said.
 
  "There are certain dos and don'ts while handling patients with chronic illnesses. It is different for a cancer patient and someone suffering from Alzheimer's disease. The case would be different for paraplegia patients. Specially-trained doctors in general medicine, medical oncology and other specialized fields would impart training to the candidates. Psychologists also will train the home aides so as to make them cope up with the patients' mental status," the doctor said.
 
 The applicants will also be given hands-on training during the two-month courses. They would be given opportunities to assist doctors in medical colleges and other hospitals. "The fee structure for the courses is yet to be fixed. Designed as residential programmes, the candidates will have to pay the fee for accommodation as well," sources said.
 
 Also on the anvil is training programme for members of the public. The plan is to train autorickshaw drivers, head-load workers and others on administering first aid and how to transport accident victims properly, while rushing them to hospitals.
 
 
