PATNA: The knock-on effects of the cash crisis in the city ATMs have created panic among people and many were seen hopping from one ‘dry’ ATM to another looking for cash to meet their daily needs.

 The cash crisis has made things worse for people with the onset of the wedding season that starts on Wednesday. Various activities in the weddings require petty expenses but the cash crunch has apparently paced down most such works, leading to ‘uncalled for’ pressure on the families and organizers.
 
 The branch head of a private event management company in Patna, Atul said major payments are being done through electronic transfers, including net banking. “The real problem is being faced in making payments to small vendors, who are required for handling miscellaneous arrangements in any event or marriage functions. Several marriages are also getting postponed and others are borrowing funds from their relatives and friends to take care of the wedding expenses to be made in cash,” Atul told TOI.
 
 “For Rs75,000, I visited ten different ATMs and made transaction from different accounts I hold just to pay small bills for flowers, light and sound,” said a customer associated with a local event management company which organizes marriage functions. He said the pressure has increased due to the cash crisis as the arrangements would be delayed if the bills were not paid.
 
 Residents also rue that most ATMs in the city are out of cash and they have to spend lots of time standing in queues.  , who was waiting in a queue at an ATM on   on Tuesday, said: “The ATMs near bank branches still have cash, but people like me living in the far-flung areas of the city are facing problems, as ATMs in other areas are running mostly dry due to delay in refilling by the banks.”
 
 Besides weddings, people relying on daily cash earnings are also facing issues in managing their routine activities. Arvind Kumar, a shopkeeper in Boring Canal Road area, said: “People are opting to pay through debit cards due to the unavailability of cash. As a result, various shopkeepers like me, who don’t accept cards, are facing a good amount of loss on daily basis.”
 
 
