BENGALURU:   Group plans to spend 3 billion pounds in strategic investment with a huge allocation towards digital technology that might give significant fresh business to Indian IT services providers. This investment is a 40% increase over what it spent on its 2015-17 strategy.

 
 TCS, Wipro, Cognizant and   are among its current outsourcing partners. Industry experts estimate that these four IT companies already receive an annual business of $600 million from Lloyds. 
 
 
 The bank’s chief executive Antonio Horta-Osorio recently outlined new strategic imperatives that involve a major effort to digitalize its operations. This is particularly good news for Indian IT considering tech demand from the banking and financial sector in its mainstay markets – US and Europe – has been sluggish for a long time. 
 
 
 When TOI contacted Lloyds Banking Group on the probable increase in spends with Indian IT firms, it declined to comment.
 
 
 As part of its 2018-2020 strategic plan, Lloyds wants to transform the group into a digitized, simple, customer-focused financial service provider leveraging a multi-brand and multi-channel approach. Under the new plan, it plans to cut its operating costs to less than 8 billion pounds in 2020. 
 
 
 Jimit Arora, who leads US-based advisory Everest Group’s IT services research practice, said Lloyds is all set to increase its spending across IT modernization and business transformation to create a better digital banking experience. “Overall, while Lloyds has performed at par with the market, in a recent study we saw that other banks were leapfrogging them from a digital experience perspective,” he said.
 
 
 The bank, which has 13 million digitally active customers, has a tech blueprint where it intends to simplify its IT and data architecture, leverage API (application programming interface) enabled channel for fintech, selectively upgrade its core systems (avoiding what it calls a big bang solution), use greater automation, hybrid cloud and software-as-a-service. 
 
 
 Among Lloyds’ technology partners are British consultancy and project management firm Mitie, IBM, Fujitsu, Xerox, BT and First Data. Last year, it signed a 1.3 billion pounds, 10-year contract with IBM for cloud services. It is expected to involve 1,900 jobs. Almost 500 IT jobs outsourced by   to IBM are expected to come to India.
 
 
 Lloyds has moved 1,000 jobs to Diligenta, a subsidiary of TCS, to manage Lloyds' life and pension policies across the UK. It also signed a 1.3 billion pounds contract with Mitie to provide services including energy management, business process outsourcing and data management.
 
 Hansa Iyengar, analyst in London based Ovum Research said, Spending increases have always been favourable to Indian vendors in the past. The digital services space is a highly contested one and when it comes to choosing a vendor for end-to-end transformation programs Accenture often comes out on top (it has over 50% of revenues coming from digital services compared to about 20-24% for the Indian heritage vendors). "TCS is another strong incumbent given its overall portfolio of offerings and Virtusa stands out due to its nearly exclusive BFSI focus and plays into several niches as a best of breed provider."
 
