KANNUR:   is all set to welcome the eighth edition of the   ( ), with the theme ‘Moving ahead with diversification’, which will be formally inaugurated on February 10 by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.

 The event, which is being held once in five years, is considered a platform to discuss the issues related to the cooperative sector, and bring about the changes in accordance with the changing times, said the organisers.
 
 “The cooperative sector cannot move ahead with the credit system alone and hence we have to diversify into more fields and the cooperative establishments in different places will expand its services in accordance with the requirement in that place,” said C Gireesan, general convener of the organizing committee.
 
 Unlike the capitalist establishments, the cooperative establishments will make sure that they are with the people, but at the same time it is time to diversify into more sectors including manufacturing and service, he added.
 
 In Kannur itself, the cooperative establishments are into areas like poultry farming to running dialysis units that offer service to the people at subsidized rates, according to the organisers of the Cooperative Congress, and that is why this time they selected the theme, ‘Moving ahead with diversification’.
 
 Though the cooperative sector in   is very strong, as such there is no policy for the sector and the practice is that the respective governments and the political parties decide it when they are in power, but it is time to formulate a policy. Hence it has been decided to use the Sahakarana Congress as the platform to discuss it, because many experts in the field and also over 3000 delegates would attend it, according to the organisers, who said that the policy is expected to be a model for the entire country.
 
 In the Congress, minister for cooperation and tourism, Kadakampally Surendran will present a draft of the policy, and a detailed discussion will be held before finalizing it.
 
 Incidentally, the Cooperative Congress is coming to Kannur, considered the hub of cooperative establishments in the State, for the first time.
 
 The Congress will conclude on February 12. Union agriculture minister   will inaugurate the valedictory function.
 
