Ghaziabad: An FIR has been registered against officials of Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation over the death of a four-year-old boy who fell into an open drain in Gulzar Colony in Kotwali police station area on Sunday night. 

 Local residents alleged that at least five children have died in the past 10 years after falling into the open drain, which runs along the colony. 
 
 The boy, Aahil, was the son of a daily wage labourer, Rashid Abbasi. “Aahil had gone out to play outside in the evening around 5 pm, but when he did not reach home till late evening, we started to look for him. Around 9 pm, his body was found in the six-feet-deep drain,” said Abbasi. The police have registered an FIR under sections 277 (fouling water of public spring or reservoir) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC against unidentified   officials and employees.
 
 In his complaint to the police, Abbasi alleged that despite several written and oral requests to GMC officials to cover the drain, no action was taken. And it subsequently led to the death of his son.
 
 SHO, Kotwali, Jaikaran Singh said an inquiry was being conducted. Following the incident on Sunday night, the family members and neighbours blocked GT Road for nearly three hours after putting Aahil’s body on the road. It resulted in a two-kilometre long jam. Around 12 am, the police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the crowd. Several people along with two local councillors, Asif Malik and Zakir Saifi, received injuries. 
 
 “The drain has turned into a death trap. In January this year, another child had fallen into it, but luckily he was saved. However, in the past 10 years, at least five children have lost their lives after falling in it.”
 
 Mohammad Gulzar said his two-and-a-half-year-old nephew Uzer had died on March 17 last year after falling in the drain. “That time also a hue and cry was raised, but no action was taken by the administration,” he added.
 
 GMC commissioner CP Singh termed the incident “unfortunate” but added that it cannot be covered as it would lead to other environmental issues. “However, we are trying to raise a one-foot wall along the drain. The issue has been discussed with the district magistrate and we are hopeful that remedial action is taken at the earliest.”
 
 
