AURANGABAD: On Thursday, the Aurangabad bench of   (HC) said that the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) Rs 88.85-crore   project has been approved by the high-power committee chaired by the chief secretary.

 The civic body has also submitted an affidavit detailing its action plan, stating the urgency of chemical treatment to pre-existing trash on roads and open areas, albeit, without tendering process. It has also said that it immediately wants to purchase 27 waste processing machines within eight days.
 
 Following the hearing, the bench of Justices SS Shinde and SM Gavhane has scheduled the next hearing of the civil application filed by Aurangabad resident, Rahul Kulkarni, on March 27. There were three more writ petitions seeking directives on non-disposal of municipal solid waste in Kanchanwadi, Mitmita and Tisgaon areas.
 
 Kulkarni had filed public interest litigation through advocate Devdutta Palodkar seeking directions to the civic body to dispose the scattered garbage and municipal waste after the civic body failed to find an alternative to the Naregaon dumping yard. The HC’s Aurangabad bench directed the civic body to immediately transfer the waste and dispose it off according to the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.
 
 However, when the civic body failed to follow the directives, Kulkarni once again filed a civil application on Tuesday. The bench then issued notices to the civic body and other respondents.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing on Thursday, government pleader AB Girase submitted a letter informing the court about Rs 88.85 crore being sanctioned by the state government. However, the court insisted on government to be specific and deferred the hearing for half an hour. Subsequently, when hearing resumed,  , deputy secretary, urban development department, filed an affidavit specifying the cost of detailed project report (DPR).
 
 The deputy secretary informed the court that government of India’s share in the DPR stands at Rs 31.09 crore, while the state and AMC would bear Rs 20.73 crore and Rs 37.02 crore each. He also said that the government has decided to bear the share of the AMC.
 
 “The state government released Rs 10.36 crore to the AMC as first installment to start work immediately,” the affidavit said.
 
 Palodkar, however, sought the court direction to open a separate account for tackling the garbage crisis. In this case, the deputy secretary also clarified that a monitoring committee was constituted under the chairmanship of divisional collector, the district collector, the municipal commissioner and accounts officer of the office of the divisional commissioner to “to monitor proper implementation of DPR for solid waste management”.
 
 
