CHANDIGARH: A Panjab University ( ) committee has recommended that an overall similarity index up to 20% should be acceptable while checking theses for   using Turnitin software.

 
 
  
  
 This is for the first time that PU has specified the percentage. This implies even if 20.5% of a PhD dissertation is found similar to some other work, it would be considered plagiarised. The committee has recommended filters should be set for excluding acknowledged quotes, bibliography, matches that are less than seven words and acknowledged secondary data sources should also be excluded.
 
 PU already has a plagiarism policy, however, no specifications for the check using the software is mentioned. The committee has now recommended certain guidelines for interpreting the originality report for PhD dissertation. A meeting of the committee constituted by PU vice-chancellor Prof   was held on March 7 to study the issue of interpreting the Turnitin originality reports.
 
 The committee recommended acknowledged secondary data sources be excluded from similarity analysis and similarity with self-published work in journals and conference proceedings be excluded from the analysis. This has to be clarified by the supervisor and a note to this effect be added along with the similarity report, the committee said.
 
 Ramanjit Kaur Johal, dean, research promotion cell, said, “We are recommending these guidelines to bring about uniformity in the interpretation of the Turnitin originality report across PU departments.”
 
 Prof B S Bhoop of University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), who has been apprising the students, faculty members and academicians about plagiarism and issues concerning it, said the recommendation that similarity with self-published work in journals and conference proceedings should also be excluded from the analysis should come with a rider. “Specifying the limits of and boundaries of plagiarism policy is much sought after and welcome step. The recommendation including 20% limit is quite visionary. However, self –published work should be applicable only if the earlier work has been cited and referred in the manuscript being screened for plagiarism,” added Bhoop.
 
 These recommendations of the committee would be taken up in an upcoming meeting on April 11. These recommendations would further require approval of the governing bodies of PU.
 
 For sciences, there are no acknowledged quotes, however, there are such quotes in the PhD dissertations of humanities. Turnitin and Plagiarism Detector are the two most widely used software used to detect plagiarism across the world.
 
 
