NEW DELHI: Commuters carrying   may be barred from travelling in   from March at 20 select stations, including New Delhi station.

 The   (DMRC) recently installed U-shaped metal barriers in front of X-ray baggage screening machines, which don’t allow oversized baggage to enter the machine at five metro stations — Barakhamba Road, Anand Vihar, Chandni Chowk, Kashmere Gate and Shahdara.
 
 From March, DMRC will extend the bar on oversized baggage at 15 more stations — Adarsh Nagar, Azadpur, Badarpur, Botanical Garden, Chawri Bazar, Dilshad Garden, Govindpuri, HUDA City Centre, Inderlok, Karol Bagh, Lal Quila, Nangloi, R K Ashram Marg, Rithala and New Delhi.
  
  
 
 “This is being done to ensure adherence to norms of baggage size allowed as per operations and maintenance Act of DMRC and inputs from the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF),” a DMRC spokesperson said.
 
 The DMRC’s operations and maintenance Act stipulates that commuters can’t carry baggage that is heavier than   and the dimensions fixed for it is 60 centimetre length, 45 centimetre width and a height of not more than 25centimetre. Though the rules have been in place from the very beginning, it is only now that DMRC is taking measures so that commuters adhere to these.
 
 The installation of U-shaped barriers and barring passengers carrying oversized baggage from travelling would pose biggest problem at the New Delhi metro station. This station not only witnesses a high footfall of railway passengers, who carry huge baggage usually, but also many air travellers as the station is an interchange point for those travelling by the Airport Express Line.
 
 “As of now, we are not returning passengers with oversized baggage from the five stations where the barriers have been installed. Such baggage is checked physically by our personnel,” he said. “We are trying to educate and inform commuters at present so that they don’t travel with oversized baggage,” he added.
 
 The DMRC spokesperson said that the U-shaped barriers will be installed at 15 more stations by the end of February or by March. To begin with, passengers wouldn’t be disallowed from travelling if they have oversized baggage, but they will be educated about the rules.
 
 When DMRC and CISF start barring passengers with oversized baggage from travelling, the money they have spent on buying tokens would be returned. 
 
 
