JAISALMER: The Indian Air Force (IAF) has started  , the biggest ever war combat game exercise on Pakistan and China borders. They showcased their power at the Pokhran field firing range in   in the first phase earlier. Defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Air Chief Marshal B.S Dhanoa and officials of defence, army and others will be arriving on Friday, April 13 to Pokhran. The exercise was started from April 8 and will continue till April 22. 

  
  
 
 
 At the Pokharan field firing range, IAF’s upgraded Mig 21, Mig 27, Hawk and other fighter planes at   Shakti exercise demonstrated their flying skills along with firing power. These fighter planes hit the targets and enemy’s fake radars, army troops, weapon consignment, petrol pumps, laser controlled bombs, missiles and front gun. The aim of this exercise is real time coordination, deployment and employment of air power in a short and intense battle scenario.
 
  
  
 
 
 If a situation arises where both China and Pakistan are at war with India at the same time, then the IAF can fight on both fronts together. This exercise of the Indian air force is going to be a big boost to the Make In India program and will be a big landmark for the indigenous aircraft development project. Day and night exercises will be carried out in two phases – the first in the western part and the second in the north-eastern part. More than 1100 fighter aircraft and 15000 personnel are taking part in the exercise.
 
  
  
 
 
 Defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman will be flying via Air force special flight from Delhi to Jodhpur air base and will take a helicopter to Pokhran field firing range in Jaisalmer district. She will be flying back to Delhi on the same evening.
 
  
  
 
 
 IAF is exercising the entire machinery to validate its concept of operations and war waging capability through Gagan Shakti. With each successive exercise, the lessons learnt in the previous exercises and doctrinal precepts are put to test for developing new concepts. This year the IAF has planned tactics that will be tested in a real time scenario.
 
 Concepts of accelerated operations, network centric operations, long range missions with concentrated weapon releases across all air to ground ranges in India, inter valley troop transfer, flexible use of airspace, joint maritime air operations with the  , joint operations with the Indian Army, simulated combat search and rescue for effective extraction of downed aircrew behind enemy lines, special operations with garud commando force, mass casualty evacuation from highway and ALG Operations and many others would be tested. It is for the first time that efficacy and integration of LCA in the operational matrix of the IAF is planned. The logistics stamina of the IAF and the ability to sustain continuous operations through day & night would be put to test.
 
 
