PUNE: The joint entrance exam (JEE) main threw no surprises on Sunday as students found the paper to be similar to the last two years. 

 With around 30,000 students from the city appearing from across 50 centres, experts said the cut-off to qualify for the JEE Advanced examination this year would be around 85 marks with an increase in the number of students qualifying from Pune. 
 
 The   is India’s largest exam for engineering admissions. Like last year, this year too the aspirants were asked to report at the exam centre by 7am followed by a strict security check and verification of the candidates. The exam began at 9.30 am. 
 
 The questions this year were a mix of theory and calculations which ensured that students saved time for the other two sections. Physics was average in difficulty level and Math section though was very lengthy but was not that difficult.
 
 "In terms of difficulty level, the paper was moderately easy and students who had good conceptual understanding of all the three subjects are expected to do well in JEE Main," director of Bakliwal Tutorials, Vaibhav Bakliwal said.
 
 Some students said the chemistry paper was tough and maths was lengthy.  , a student who attempted the exam, said he found maths the easiest of the three subjects. 
 
 "It was not possible to easily attempt all questions in three hours. There were 30 questions which were easy but about 20 questions were on difficult side. Scoring 80-100 marks will be easily possible but there will be few students scoring above 300," said Vinay Kumat, managing director and chief executive officer at Rao IIT academy.
 
 The number of exam centres increased dramatically this year, with 258 exam centres compared to 113 last year. The number of students appearing for the exam across the country fell from 13 lakh last year to about 12 lakh this year. Out of the 12 lakh students who have appeared for the exam across the country, only 2.24 lakh students will qualify for appearing in the JEE advanced exam scheduled on May 20. 
 
 Durgesh C  , director of IITian's  , said, “The cut-off is expected to be around 80 to 85 marks out of total 360. The paper was challenging.”
 
  of   said that, “The questions were a mix of basic concept and informative in chemistry, more application based in physics, and mathematics section required more of analytical thinking. An even distribution of questions from standard XI and XII syllabus gave the students with a thorough knowledge and rigorous studies in those two years an edge over the rest.”
 
 
