LUDHIANA: The department of clinical hematology and bone marrow transplantation in association with hematopathology held a three-day state-level workshop, titled ‘AHEAD’ – Advancing Haemophilia Education Awareness and Diagnosis at   on Tuesday.   is a common bleeding disorder. However, there is a lack of facilities for adequate diagnosis and treatment of this disorder in the state.

 The programme was held for doctors for all the medical colleges and civil hospitals of Punjab under the patronage of the Ministry of health and family welfare, National Health Mission (NHM). The theme of this year’s programme, adapted from the World Federation of Hemophilia was “Sharing knowledge makes us stronger”. The training course consists of three arms, which includes doctors, technicians and physiotherapists.
 
 The highlight of the programme included lectures by field experts from   Ludhiana. Dr M Joseph John, Dr Chepsy Philip and Dr Suvir Singh from the department of Clinical Hematology spoke on clinical management and manifestations of hemophilia. Dr Naveen Kakkar and Dr Vandana from Hemato-Pathology spoke about various lab aspects. They are also planning hands-on training sessions for lab technicians, to make them adept at laboratory techniques required to diagnose and monitor patients with hemophilia.
 
 Dr Mullai and her team from the department of physiotherapy also spoke at length on muskuloskeletal manifestations of hemophilia and measures to treat them. Dr William Bhatti, director CMC hospital, Ludhiana, was also among the dignitaries’ present.
 
 The programme was graced by Dr Parminder Pal Singh Sidhu, civil surgeon. Manpreet Chhatwal, additional project director and Dr Sukhwinder Singh, joint director blood transfusion services, state blood cell, graciously accepted to be guests of honor. This programme was done as a prelude to NHM providing free anti-hameophillia factors to all the government medical colleges and CMC Ludhiana for the patients of Punjab.
 
 It is hoped that such workshops would help to increase awareness about hemophilia in the community and improve facilities for diagnosis and treatment at the state level. This would help towards the long-term goal of making Punjab a hemophilia free state and provide free or subsidized treatment for patients. 
 
 
