HYDERABAD: Day-long discussions on CPM’s draft political resolution could not see the party arrive at a consensus on Thursday, leading to speculation that a vote on the party’s political tactical line may be necessitated on Friday.

 Sources said that though the central committee weighs heavily in favour of former general secretary  , present incumbent Sitaram Yechury has an upper hand at the party congress, where he also managed to table his ‘minority view' on the political resolution even after it was rejected by the central committee in January.
 
 Of the 786 delegates attending the party congress, a little more than 390 are believed to be backing Yechury’s line, pushing for an ‘open’ approach to secular, democratic forces, including the Congress.
 
 
 
 Even as rumours of a likely split gained ground on Thursday, it appeared that delegates from West Bengal may push for a secret ballot hoping that numbers in favour of Yechury may go up. Maharashtra delegates, on Thursday, also demanded a secret ballot on the political resolution, adding that any differentiation by CPM between secular parties will only help the BJP.
 
 The CPM party constitution does not have a laid down procedure for voting. As per convention, though, voting at party congresses, whenever it has happened, has been done by a show of hands. The final decision, however, rests with the steering committee — the 16-member politburo in this case — where it is believed Yechury may have his way. Even after the committee decides, if a delegate presses for amendment to be considered, the party tradition necessitates a vote.
 
 The Karat lobby, while in consonance with Yechury on the threat the RSS-BJP poses, and the need to “oust BJP-RSS governments” believes this must be achieved without any understanding with Congress. Clarifying there was no dispute over “question of  ,” Yechury said, “We have an IPR over the term ‘outside support’. If you go into our history, we are never part of any alliance. There is no dispute the priority today is to defeat this BJP government. How to achieve this is what we are democratically discussing.”
 
