1. Base tax rate for companies with turnover less than Rs 250 crore in FY2016-17 ( ) has gone down to 25% from 30%. Their effective tax rate after application of surcharge and the new health and education cess will be 29% instead of 34.6%.

 2. The tax holiday of 3 years in a block of 7 years for startups recognised by   has been extended to entities incorporated before April 1, 2021.
 
 3. Digital economy’s now under the tax net. Non-residents with significant economic presence in India (sale of goods or services, providing for download of software or data) will have to pay tax on Indian profits in spite of not having physical presence here. Tax treaties will need suitable amendments.
 
 4. Compensation on termination or modification of terms of contracts, such as for marketing or distribution rights, will now be taxed as business income.
 
 5. Non-residents doing business through agents in India will be taxed where they play a principal role in conclusion of customer contracts even though they do not conclude contracts in India. Till date, non-residents were taxed only if agents habitually concluded contracts in India.
 
 6.Transfer of capital assets (land, building, shares) between a holding and 100% subsidiary will be exempt from tax even when these are less than fair market value.
 
 7. Tax deduction for employment generation rationalised. Enhanced deduction of 30% of wages paid to new employees available even if he is employed for less than 240 days in the first year, provided he remains in employment next year for the prescribed threshold.
 
 8. Relief from MAT for companies undergoing insolvency proceedings under the   Code 2016. They will get a reduction of brought-forward losses and unabsorbed depreciation from book profits on which MAT is computed.
 
 9. Companies under insolvency under IBC Code 2016 can now carry forward losses even in case of substantial change in their ownership (51% or more) during the year.
 
 10. Income was to be computed in accordance with Income Computation and Disclosure Standards (ICDS) from FY2016-17, which resulted in an increase in taxable income. Delhi HC struck down the constitutional validity of certain ICDS. Now a retrospective amendment reintroduces it. Companies may have to revise tax returns for the past year and pay additional tax and interest.
 
 
 Companies will face additional dividend distribution tax (DDT) burden of 30% (basic rate) on loans or advances given to shareholders or related concerns (where the shareholder has substantial interest). Earlier, such loans were treated as deemed dividend and taxed in the hands of the shareholder
 
 
 
 
