HYDERABAD: Despite widening roads and clearing them of encroachments, traffic snarls seem to be getting worse by the day in the city. Experts blame it on ever-increasing vehicle density, four lakh new vehicles were added to the   between December, 2016, and December, 2017. The 10% jump in new vehicles has taken the total number of vehicles zipping on city roads (Greater Hyderabad) from 50 lakh vehicles to 54 lakh.

 Though there is a marked increase in the two-wheeler population year-on-year, the experts are worried about the number of cars hitting the streets. Experts have also suggested an increase in car prices to dissuade prospective buyers. Currently, 72% of vehicles on city roads are  , while   constitute 17%. “Ten years ago, the number of two-wheelers were nearly 90%, while four-wheelers and other vehicles made up the remaining, 10%. The scenario has changed now. Apart from the increase in vehicles, there is a fundamental shift in the type of vehicles on the roads. The rate at which four-wheelers are increasing is a disturbing trend, likely to add up to the  . Also, cabs are increasing exponentially in the city,” deputy commissioner of police (Traffic-II), Hyderabad, AV Ranganath explained.
 
 
  
  
 
 In 2016, 8.5 lakh cars were plying on the roads, while it rose to 9.2 lakh in 2017, growing at 8%. On the other hand, the rise in two-wheelers was just 7.6%. Sources in the automobile market reveal that the buying potential of citizens has increased largely and people were not only preferring cars, but also bigger versions were being sold increasingly. “Many two-wheeler owners are shifting to cars and the car owners shifting to bigger, costlier and luxurious cars,” a marketing manager of a luxury car showroom told 
 .
 
 “No matter how many alternate channels of traffic flow are made or how many new routes are thrown open, the number of vehicles hitting the roads has to be controlled. The more new roads or flyovers are added, more number of vehicles will come on the road and pack them again. Buying cars need to be made prohibitively expensive,” pointed out  , founder of Hyderabad Urban Labs.
 
 Did you have a bad experience on the road today, or were stuck in traffic for long? And do you live in an area that needs attention? Please write about your experiences to 
  and we will take it up with the authorities.
 
