As we celebrate   today, residents of Noida's posh condominiums have stocked it all – colourful pichkaris, gulaal, gujiyas and music sets – to celebrate the festival of colours. To make the occasion more joyful for the revellers, various societies in the city are hosting parties that have become extravagant with budgets running into lakhs. 

  
 
 
   , the ex-president of Mahagun Moderne, Sector 78, tells us, "We have been celebrating Holi ever since the inception of our society in 2007, and, with every passing year, the celebrations have gotten bigger. This year, we have a DJ performance, rain dance and food stalls and the overall budget has gone up to over Rs 1 lakh." Purnemaa Narayanan, a resident of JM Orchid, Sector 76, says, "Every year, we look forward to celebrating Holi with fellow residents. This year, our society is shelling out over a lakh for Holi celebrations. Our society has arranged a rain dance along with a DJ performance. They are also providingbreakfast and lunch. From smearing colours on each other's faces to dancing on Holi tracks, it is a joyous celebration that all residents look forward to."
 
  
  Noida says Holi Hai! with big budget parties
 
 
 
 
  Vishnu Saini, a resident of  , says, "Music is an integral part of Holi celebration. While last year, the residents of our society got together and contributed around Rs 6,000 to Rs 8,000 for the DJ for the Holi party. This year, our society builder has planned a big bash on the festival. Almost Rs 25,000 is being spent on music, including a DJ, live music, light and sound system and another Rs 10,000 is being spent for the live screening of a popular Holi music festival, which is being held at  ."
 
 
 
  NP Singh, president, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA), says, "Festivity is incomplete without snacks and quick bites. So, we are hosting a Holi brunch for the residents of Sector 35. We have hired caterers for the same and the budget is around a lakh."
 
 
 
  Rekha Pandey, Vice President of Apartment Owners Association at  , Sector 137, says, "For Holi, we have roped in a DJ, who will be belting out popular Holi numbers, dhol beats and some Bollywood hits from 9am to 3pm. Agar DJ aur music system achha hota hai toh residents bhi attract hote hain and they come together to celebrate the festival. Residents start enquiring about the DJ and the kind of music that would be played almost a week ahead of Holi. So, this year, to add to the Holi revelry, we decided to increase our budget for hiring a DJ and almost doubled it to Rs 15,000, as compared to Rs 8,000 last year. Apart from a DJ, who will be playing music from 9am till 3pm, there would be food stalls for both lunch and dinner." Sunny Arora, senior manager (Facility), Eldeco Utopia, Sector 93A, says, "We have planned a two-day celebration, including a bonfire a day before Holi. Since music is an integral part of the festival, we are planning to spend around Rs 20,000 to Rs 25,000 on DJ and music set-up."
 
  
  Rain dance organised at a society in Noida last year
 
 
 
  Poonam Mutreja, vice president AOA RWA, ATS Village, Sector 93A, says that they are not going all out this year. "This Holi, we have decided to keep it a low-key affair. We will get the speakers out and play some groovy traditional Holi numbers. A nearby bistro will be setting up a stall and will be serving continental cuisines and thalis. We will also be serving some refreshments to all our residents," she tells us.
 
 
 --Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
