SRINAGAR/JAMMU : Pakistani forces violated ceasefire on Sunday morning and resorted to indiscriminate shelling, killing five members of a family and injuring two others at   area along the LoC in J&K's   district. The two injured persons were airlifted to   for treatment. 

 The ceasefire violation came amid a heightened diplomatic tension between the two countries over alleged harassment of diplomats.
 
 "Pakistan began heavy unprovoked firing around 7.45am which lasted for nearly four hours. Pakistan forces fired automatic and small arms and mortars, and targeted civilian localities much deep inside Indian territory - at least 3-4km from the LoC. There is no Army deployment or any installation in the area," a defence spokesperson said in Jammu. The deceased were identified by cops as  , his wife and their three sons. The couple's two injured daughters were airlifted to a Jammu hospital where their condition was said to be critical.
 
 "Pakistan continues in its cowardly design of targeting innocent civilians, their homes and livestock in villages close to the LoC. The deliberate provocation has resulted in the loss of five precious and innocent civilian lives," the Army spokesperson said.
 
 DGP SP Vaid confirmed the death of five civilians and said the police has started evacuating people from forward areas. "Five civilian deaths have been reported in the Pakistani firing. The district administration has airlifted two criti- cally injured minor girls after preliminary treatment at a   hospital to Jammu," he told TOI.
 
 Chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted, “Anguished to hear of five people losing lives in the crossfire along the LoC in Poonch. My deepest condolences to their family.”
 
 “Peace is the only way forward. Initiatives were started by former PM AB Vajpayee ji with his Lahore bus journey & were later carried on in the same spirit by PM Narendra Modi. Sadly they were sabotaged at Pathankot. We need to get on the right track if we want to save the people of J&K,” she said in another tweet, referring to the 2016 terror attack on an air force station in Punjab.
  
 
 
