NEW DELHI: India is keeping a hawk eye on the continuing presence of Chinese troops and their construction activities in north   near the Sikkim-Bhutan-Tibet trijunction, even as Army chief General   said bilateral 
  that existed before the 73-day troop faceoff in the region last year. 

 
 The Indian security establishment believes People's Liberation Army (PLA) soldiers may return in "greater numbers" to the Doklam area (the Dolam Plateau), which is disputed between China and Bhutan, for some muscle-flexing after the harsh winter is over.
 
 "They have built infrastructure for it in north Doklam (separated from south Doklam by the Torsa Nala rivulet). But our troops, atop the watershed that dominates Doklam, are much better placed in terms of terrain. We are in a wait-and-watch mode, prepared for any eventuality," an official said.
 
  
  
 
 Indian troops will step in again if the PLA tries to disrupt the status quo, like it did in June last year by trying to extend its existing road southwards towards the Jampheri Ridge in south Doklam. The Indian Doka La military post, incidentally, is just about 100-150 metres from the original face-off site at Doklam. India considers the Jampheri Ridge, which overlooks India's militarily-vulnerable Siliguri Corridor, "a strategic no-go area" for Chinese troops and their roads, say officials.
 
  There are around 1,600 Chinese troops stationed in the north Doklam area, having established a permanent presence there with the construction of helipads, upgraded roads, pre-fabricated huts, shelters and stores to withstand the chill in the high-altitude region, 
  .
 
  
  
 "The PLA soldiers are (still) there in a part of the area (north Doklam), although not in numbers that we saw them in initially. They have carried out some infrastructure development which is mostly temporary in nature. But we are also there. So, in case they come, we will face them," said Gen Rawat, speaking at a conclave here on Wednesday.
 
 The Army chief, however, added, "I think the bonhomie (between India and China) has returned to what was there prior to Doklam. So, I don't visualise very serious trouble, but then one has to be prepared for it always."
 
 The Army chief said bilateral mechanisms, from border personnel meetings to communications between local commanders, to defuse tensions between the two countries "are working very well" as of now.
 
 But both countries continue to maintain stepped-up force levels in their own territories near the trijunction in the shape of additional infantry battalions as well as armoured (tanks), artillery, missile and air defence units.
 
 These additional forces, which were moved forward as "a show of strength" during the faceoff, largely remain in their positions even after the troop disengagement at Doklam on August 28 last year.
 
 "The PLA, for instance, has built up forces at Khambha Dzong and other places in the Tibetan Plateau. But that is their territory and they can do what they want there. We also have missile, artillery, tank and other units in the vicinity," an official said.
 
