A night behind bars, a pending police case and a suspension from college didn’t deter a 19-year-old from brandishing a sickle and threatening to attack students from a "rival" college on a suburban train in Chennai in October 2017. Last week, he returned to the same setting — a suburban railway station — this time with more armed hands, before being arrested by the Government Railway Police. 

 Suburban trains and railway stations are turning into bloody platforms as student gangs lock horns with sickles, iron rods and knives. For these mischief-makers, students from the "other" camp are targets, bystanders a collateral damage and their fear their high. 
 
 With officials clamping down on students’ unions on campuses and the Madras high court banning ‘bus day’ celebrations — which often landed celebrants, police and the public in hospitals – student clashes have moved into railway stations in the city’s outskirts. Most of the reasons behind the altercations, police say, stem from personal issues, but the names of the institutions these students study in form their banners. 
 
 On January 30 this year, the ‘gang-wars’ turned bloody again as students of   and   set upon each other with knives, swords and sickles, on the Tiruvallur-Chennai suburban train route. Four students were injured. This came less than two months after a video footage, showing students with arms at another railway station, did the rounds. Police say some of the students were linked to both the incidents.
 
 Government railway police say such encounters happen frequently at Nemmilichery, Korukkupet and Hindu College railway stations.
 
 Following the January 30 incident, higher education secretary Sunil Paliwal held a meeting with principals of both colleges to discuss measures to rein in rowdy elements. Paliwal, who also took up the issue with city police commissioner A K Viswanathan and railway police officers said principals of both colleges had taken action against those involved, including dismissal of three. They said the administration had stepped up counselling on campuses and introduced extracurricular activities to keep students more engaged. "But our scope is limited as we can’t steer their actions beyond the campus. We need to work with the city and railway police to check them," Paliwal said.
 
 At Pachaiyappa’s college, professors say at least 95% of the 3,700 students hailed from suburbs like Gumudipoondi, Tambaram, Vellaiveedu, Poonamallee, Kundrathur and Perumbakkam. K S Sridhar, director of physical education at the college, is one of the faculty members who have been appointed counsellors for students. "We visit the homes of these students for enquiries. Most of them hail from broken and economically backward families," he said.
 
 Sridhar says family members of many of the students said local politicians often paid their wards to engage in hooliganism. "These students struggle to come to college. But, when they see money, they are blinded," said Sridhar, adding that a handful join   when they pass out. "It’s time we looked at why they do what they do. These boys are also the first ones to donate blood to government hospitals during crises," he said.
 
 S Kaliraj, principal of Pachaiyappa’s college who was injured during student violence last year, said the college plans to provide free breakfast to students who participate in sports to get more youngsters involved in campus life. "We have also asked our faculty to identify ‘route thalas’ (group leaders), and counsel them to use their leadership skills in a constructive way," he said. Asked if other city colleges invited his students for cultural events, he says, "Yes. Our boys have even won trophies." 
 
 While the faculty in both colleges said they were doing their best to keep their students engaged academically and otherwise, students TOI spoke to painted a different picture. "Outside campus we have been branded as criminals because of the actions of a few. Within the college, our address is our identity," said a second-year BSc student at Presidency College. Students from Tiruvallur are often sidelined from participating in cultural events, he said. "We are treated like that even if we insist we had nothing to do with a particular incident." 
 
 Niruban G, state joint secretary of Students’ Federation of India, said teachers often came to classes just to mark students’ attendance and leave. "Teachers leave, if only five are present in say a class of 30. But they are paid to teach even if it is a class of five," he said. 
 
 
