PUNE:   has emerged as the best alternative to plastic following the   in the state in March this year. However,   could lead to environmental consequences in the coming months, experts warned. 

 According to city environmentalists, not much thought has been given to excessive use of paper. While many people have taken to recycling of newspapers to make paper bags and other items, a wide section of the society uses fresh brown and white paper for packaging and other purposes. This excessive use of fresh paper, if not curbed, could trigger environmental concern with manifold rise in tree felling to meet the rising demand for paper.
 
 Speaking about the plastic ban and its implementation, Sachin Punekar, a city-based botanist and founder president of Biospheres, said, "I welcome the ban on plastic but before implementing it, the government should have given a thought to multiple alternatives to plastic. Paper can be recycled and it must be ensured that recycled paper is used as an alternative to plastic. Use of fresh paper must be discouraged as it would only be an additional burden on the green cover in the state."
 
 Punekar stated that finding an alternative to not only plastic but also paper is the next big task for all stakeholders. "I appeal to the government to engage researchers and entrepreneurs and provide funding for research programmes to develop alternatives to plastic and paper," he explained.
 
 Managing trustee, Green Thumb India, Lt Col Suresh Patil (retd), said that it is a pity that no one is talking about the impact of excessive use of paper on the environment. "Plastic ban has led to use of paper and with the rise in population, more and more paper is going to be used. There is a need for an alternative to paper as well. Even products like paper napkins are being dumped in large quantities at landfill sites, causing environmental damage," he said.
 
 Patil said that plastic ban needs an alternative support system instead of paper. "Jute bags, for example, are sturdier than paper and can be used multiple times. Also, jute is a crop and thus there is no damage to tree cover," Patil added.
 
 
