LUCKNOW: The UP cabinet on Tuesday gave an in-principle approval to the UP Self-Financed Schools (Fixation of Fee) Ordinance 2018, which would make it compulsory for private schools to charge admission   only once per student and allow students to pay only for those services which they avail of. If a school fails to comply with the ordinance more than twice, its licence may also be revoked.

 
 Deputy CM Dinesh   said that the ordinance would apply to those private schools that charge a fee of Rs 20,000 or more annually or only run pre-schools. “The fee structure would be divided into two categories. The first one is what the school can charge from all students, including admission fees, exam fees, registration fees and annual fees. For all remaining heads, students will pay only for those services which they avail, like mess fees, or school excursion, buses etc. No student can be forced to pay for these services unless they avail of these,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 The ordinance, once it is brought in, will also ensure that admission fees will also be charged just once. At present, said the minister, the government has been getting several complaints that many schools charge admission fee indiscriminately, multiple times. “The ordinance was discussed and we came to a consensus over it. The government will now work to bring out an ordinance as per rules. The government has no desire to force any school or interfere in its working. We are only reacting to complaints by parents,” Sharma said.
 
 Following are the salient points of the proposed ordinance:
 
 
 : Under the ordinance, fee revision will take place as per the cumulative percentage index, which would take into consideration the average increment of salary paid to teachers and staff in a school. As per this, fee would not increase by more than 7-8% annually. The base year for calculation of increase fee is 2015-16 and if parents have paid more than what is required, the extra amount will be refunded. Schools will have to display its various fee and salary structures on its website 60 days before implementing an increase. It will also have to display its proposed fee structure up to class 12 at the time when a student takes admission to any class. Fees will only be collected quarterly or half-yearly. No school can charge an annual fee. No school can charge a capitation fee and will have to issue receipts for any fee that is charged.
 
 
 : A school cannot change its uniform before five years. It also cannot compel students to purchase uniforms, bags etc from any particular shop. If it requires to change the uniform before five years, it can put up a representation before the respective divisional committee and only if it gets approval, can it implement a change.
 
 : Sharma said that schools often use their premises for commercial purposes, which affects the primary purpose of imparting education. “We are not interfering in this work and will allow schools to continue to use premises for commercial purposes. However, the income from this needs to reflect in the school’s account. A reason for raising fees is that the school doesn’t have a good income. By adding the income from commercial use to the school’s account, it would mean that the income of the school will go up and there won’t be a need to increase fees. Once the income of a school goes up, salaries of teachers will also increase.
 
 : Under all divisional commissioners, a committee will be set up comprising a chartered accountant, a PWD engineer and one representative of a school’s parents association. If there is any dispute of complaint, parents or schools can approach this committee. Its powers will be defined in detail in the ordinance. Subsequently, an appellate authority will also be set up.
 
 
  If a school violates the ordinance, the penalty for a first time violation will be Rs 1 lakh. A second violation will invite a penalty of Rs 5 lakh while on the third violation, the school’s licence may be revoked.
 
