Ludhiana: Has any railway official at Ludhiana station misbehaved with you? Did you register a complaint against the official in the complaint book placed at the city railway station? It’s hard to believe but on any given day, less than one complaint is registered by a passenger in the complaint book placed at the city railway station. Wondering why? This is because most of the commuters aren’t aware of this official complaint book through which passengers can address their grievances.

 In fact, during a reality check at Ludhiana railway station, TOI has found that the concerned railway authorities have not even put up a single sign board mentioning that if any ticket official or railway employee misbehave with a passenger or charge excess in the name of any facility, then the passenger can register his /her compliant in this railway complaint book, which will further take their compliant to the higher authorities.
 
 On Monday, TOI team learnt that one of the passengers, Raj Kumar, had registered a complaint about a ticket checker. The commuter has alleged the ticket checker (on a Howrah-bound train) was drunk while on duty and misbehaved with Kumar even when he showed his valid ticket (from Ambala to Ludhiana).
 
 Meanwhile, railway sources claim most of the time the employees at the ticket counter charge more from the passengers. This is due to lack of awareness among the passengers about the railway complaint redressal system.
 
 The sources also told TOI that passengers can make use of the social networking site, Twitter, and file their complaint too. “In fact, these days most use social media to raise concern,” said one of the railway authorities on condition of anonymity. 
 
 Senior divisional commercial manager of Ferozpur Division, Monu Luthra, said, “We make the passengers aware of the complaint redressal system through our timely announcements at the railway station. However, it’s true that a less number of people have registered their complaint. We will soon put up some sign boards mentioning the complaint book placement at the Ludhiana railway station so that more passengers can take advantage of this railway initiative and can get best of the facility.” 
 
 
