It's early morning and UP chief minister   has already finished a series of meetings and hopped onto a chopper from the helipad next to his official residence in Lucknow. Fifteen minutes into the ride and Yogi points outside the window. "Woh dekhiye, Saryuji... aur wahan Ayodhyaji… (Look, there flows river Saryu. And, there is Ayodhya)."

 
 He then shuts his eyes and gets into meditation mode. Once the chopper reaches neighbouring Basti district, he speaks again, this time mainly on 
  for Lok Sabha bypolls in Phulpur and Gorakhpur, where he is headed to address six rallies before leaving for Karnataka campaign on Tuesday.
 
 The Gorakhpur seat fell vacant after Yogi became CM last year. He had served five terms as an MP from the constituency.
 
 He brands the SP-BSP arrangement a "deal" and does not believe it will impact the bypolls. "There is only one votebank in the country today — Modi votebank. Days of 
  on the basis of caste and community are over," says Yogi.
 
 "BSP extending support to SP is no alliance, it is a deal. It is an 'apavitra' (sinful) deal, a mockery of people's sentiments," he says.
 
 By the time his chopper hovers over Jeetpur, his first rally of the day in the Pipraich Assembly constituency, a huge crowd is already in a state of frenzy. In Gorakhpur, he isn't just the CM. He is "pujya Yogi Adityanathji maharaj" or "maharajji".
 
 All, from political leaders to the common man, are happy that "maharajji" has grown in stature in national politics. Rally after rally, people praise his role in BJP's win in Tripura. "Desh ki rajneeti mein unka kad bad gaya hai. Tripura mein   ko jeetane mein unka haath thha (His stature in national politics has grown. He played a key role in BJP's win in Tripura)," says BJP MLA from Pipraich Dharampal Singh.
 
 "After PM   and BJP chief Amit Shah, if there is any tall leader in India today, it is Yogi. Hum sab chahte hain Yogiji Bharatiya rajneeti mein nayak banker ubhre (We all wish he blossoms into a very tall leader in Indian politics)," BJP candidate in Gorakhpur Upendra Shukla says in the Campierganj Assembly area.
 
 Yogi, too, seems to be at home here. "They are my own. It seems like I know each and every one in every rally," he tells TOI.
 
 "I said there are 52 jummas a year while there is one Holi. So, Holi should be celebrated in a big way even if it falls on a Friday. I am thankful to Muslim religious leaders for co-operating with the government and changing namaaz timings for a day. Earlier, there used to be violence," he says at a rally in the Sahjanwa assembly constituency, referring to the government's appeal to mosques to change their namaaz timings on Holi last Friday.
 
 Citing examples of his government's efforts to create jobs, Yogi says: "I remember a youth committing suicide here in Dohariya Bazaar. He had cleared the police recruitment test, but didn't get the job because they were kept reserved to people from particular castes during earlier governments. Now we are ready to recruit 1.62 lakh youths in police force."
 
 In between rallies, Yogi has sundry leaders and the gathered crowd, try to get a glimpse of him, wait for a wave of the hand or a nod. The youth, armed with cellphones, make videos of him speaking.
 
 By evening, it is time for two final rallies at Ram Leela ground and Raptinagar in Gorakhpur city. Then, a series of meetings and preparation for another day of rallies in faraway Karnataka. But he is full of energy. "Karnataka will be ours. People are wary of Congress after five years of corruption and misrule," says Yogi, as he hops onto the chopper.
 
