CHENNAI In the azure sky above the   waves that came licking the sandy shores of Thiruvidanthai, 40km south of Chennai, military choppers and fighter planes flew in loops on Wednesday, signalling the beginning of DefExpo-2018.

 As India spreads its wares against the scenic backdrop, however, many more neurons will have to fire with the guns on display if India is to live up to the theme for the 10th edition of the show: ‘India: The emerging defence manufacturing hub’.
 
  
  
 
 
 It is the same slogan: ‘Make in India.’ Defence minister   announced that nearly 75% of the space at the expo has been taken by Indian companies, big and small. “In no other expo had so many Indian companies registered,” she said. Later she tweeted: For the first time, India will be showcasing its defence export potential.
 
 There were, however, a few dissenting voices on the opening day. Airbus group India chief Pierre De Bausset said India should not aim at making all its defence needs within the country. “Not all products can be made in India and there is a limit,” said Bausset at a conference organised by Assocham as part of the expo. Airbus vice-president ( industry development, strategic partnerships and offsets) Ashish Saraf seconded Bausset’s opinion. “It takes a long time to make an aircraft engine in India but at the same time, the companies, including MSMEs are experts in making gear boxes and landing gear. Each product comes out after prolonged research, and transferring technology to another country takes more time,” said Saraf. 
 
 KPMG partner Amber Dubey asked the government to amend its policies on local companies which are interested in supplying defence needs. “The government wants all Indian companies to involve in defence production, but there is no priority lending or change in payment structure for the local companies,” said Dubey. There is an urgent need for discussion, he said.
 
 But the Army is hopeful of having 100% India-made products for its use in future, if not now. “Indian Army will not be able to meet all its needs indigenously at present. But the government has taken big steps to connect with the academia and private companies to find solutions,” Army PRO Col Aman Anand told TOI.
 
 Analyses happened as much on the side lines. One pointed out that India is expected to spend close to $300 billion in the next five years to procure defence equipment, mostly from abroad.
 
 
