KOCHI: The high court on Monday directed for sending notice to   in a case seeking investigation by a special wing of police into the controversial land deal involving the Syro-Malabar Church.

 A petition filed by a parishioner,   of Perumbavoor, questioning a magistrate court’s decision not to order a special investigation by police is being considered by the high court. The petition comes in the wake of a scandal allegedly involving sale of land belonging to the church and possible financial loss.
 
 Stressing the need for a special probe by police or the economic wing of the state government, the petition before the magistrate court had said that the documents involved in the case are voluminous and that the offences are spread over the jurisdiction of different police stations and different village and districts. However, the magistrate did not order an investigation and this would result in miscarriage of justice, the petition to the high court said.
 
 In addition to the cardinal, priests Fr   and Fr   are named as the opposite parties in the petition to the high court.
 
 Report of the inquiry committee constituted by the   is a clear indicator that the accused are contumaciously guilty of the offences alleged, Joshy’s petition said. The inquiry committee had scrutinized 36 deeds of land alienation and 10 deeds of purchase. The jurisdictional sub registrars who registered these documents will have to be examined. Village officers and tahasildars will also have to be examined to prove whether there was any undervaluation, the petition stated.
 
 In addition to this, bank records have to be verified and the accounts of the archdiocese will have to be audited by a chartered accountant. Such exercises are required to bring home the guilt of the accused but they are beyond the reach of the petitioner who is an ordinary parishioner, said the petition to the high court that seeks an order for a police probe.
 
 It is beyond doubt that courts are ill-equipped to deal with the investigation required in the instant case and only a competent investigating agency can unearth the truth, the petitioner has alleged.
 
