HYDERABAD: Dumping sewage and garbage in the city’s lakes have reduced their biological/biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) drastically, indicating water in these sources is highly polluted,   (TSPCB) said on Wednesday. BOD is the amount of dissolved oxygen in water needed by aquatic flora and fauna to survive.

 
  
  
 
 According to PCB’s latest water quality data, Sai Cheruvu recorded a high BOD content of 135 mg/l while Asani Kunta recorded 118 mg/l.
 
 Other water bodies in the city such as Noor Md Kunta (30 mg/l), Saroornagar Lake (25 mg/l),   (24 mg/l) and   (21 mg/l) also recorded high BOD content.
 
 According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) standards, water bodies having BOD content greater than 6 mg/l are classified as polluted. River Musi at Nagole recorded a BOD of 32 mg/l.
 
 A majority of water bodies surveyed have also recorded a dissolved oxygen (DO) content less than 4 mg/l, indicating that aquatic life cannot survive in the water.
 
 Experts point out how the inflow of sewage into water bodies continues to be the main cause of pollution. The Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) are also not equipped to treat the amount of sewage generated, say experts.
 
 “Sewage is the main cause of pollution of lakes in the city. The existing STPs are able to handle close to 50% of the sewage generated in the twin cities. Barring a few water bodies such as Osmansagar and Himayatsagar, most water bodies are classified ‘D’ or ‘E’ — indicating the presence of sewage in them,” explained P Veerana, senior scientist with TSPCB.
 
 According to CPCB standards, water whose quality is classified as D and E can be used for propagation of wildlife and fisheries and for irrigation, industrial cooling and controlled waste disposal purposes respectively.
 
 Khazipally Tank, which had in the past recorded high BOD levels, has now been classified ‘dry’ by  . Experts said the water body was extremely dangerous and could result in a Bellandur Lake-like situation, where toxic chemicals on the dry lake bed could cause fires.
 
 
