BHOPAL: Professors and   ( ) are at loggerheads over evaluation of answer-sheets. The university put out an advertisement in newspapers recently asking for teachers to evaluate the answer-sheets. 

 Teaching faculty say the university wants them to work after office hours and teachers are not game for it.
 
 BU deputy registrar   said it is just to inform everyone the university requires teachers for the answer-sheet evaluation. "Several teachers are available for answer-sheet evaluation. Lacking information has been an issue due to which their services could not be utilised. There are many retired teachers. They are a major asset," said Patel. 
 
 There is no shortage of teachers for answer-sheet evaluation. "Teachers are there and there is no such issue," Patel said. 
 
 However, teachers refused to buy the statement of Patel that there is no issue. "Of course, it is an issue. BU had recently sent a circular that anyone interested in answer-sheet evaluation can do the work after official duty timing," said Prof Kailash Tyagi, secretary of   Professors' Association. 
 
 He said, "Is it possible for anyone to go for such an important task after witnessing exhaustive day," said Prof Tyagi. He also raised objection to payment for answer-sheet evaluation. "The university pays Rs 20 per copy. What kind of payment is this? Why would a teacher would so such important work for such a lowly amount," Tyagi said. BU has decided to provide maximum 120 answer-sheets for evaluation in one day. 
 
 Prof Tyagi raised questions over the exercise. "BU had seen major issues in recruitment of various teachers and employees few years ago. In such a situation, who will take onus if anyone coming from outside do something wrong. It is nothing, but an invitation to another scam," said Prof Tyagi. 
 
 Several teachers are available for answer-sheet evaluation. Lacking information has been an issue due to which their services could not be utilised. There are many retired teachers. They are a major asset 
 
 Several teachers are available for answer-sheet evaluation. Lacking information has been an issue due to which their services could not be utilised. There are many retired teachers. They are a major asset 
 
 
