LUCKNOW: BSP supremo   said on Saturday that BJP was so power-drunk that it was presuming that people of the country won’t understand that it did not allow the Parliament to function as it was scared to face no confidence motion.

 Referring to Shah’s statement on Friday comparing opposition to cats, dogs, snakes and mongoose, Mayawati said that UP CM Yogi Adityanath had used similar insulting ‘Sanghi’ language before Gorakhpur and Phulpur byelections because of which voters had ‘whipped’ BJP.
 
 “BJP’s top leadership is still following the Sanghi way. Shah’s statement shows to what level has the party fallen under the leadership of Guru and Shishya (Modi and Shah),” she said. She said that allies were moving out of NDA because of Modi and Shah’s arrogance.
 
 Mayawati accused BJP of engineering budget session washout because it did not want discussion on the no confidence motion moved by former allies. “The Modi government was not prepared to face the no confidence motion,” she said. She also alleged that BJP’s role in recent bank scams could not be ruled out.
 
 Samajwadi Party national president   also lashed out at BJP and said that the party has lost all political courtesy.
 
 He was replying to a query on BJP chief Amit Shah’s comment on opposition bid to unite to counter the saffron surge.
 
 The former UP CM said BJP was rattled by SP-BSP tie-up and consequent Gorakhpur and Phulpur bypolls reversal. “Look at the language they are using for political opponents in a democracy. They have zero political courtesy,” said   while interacting with party workers on Saturday.
 
 He said BJP claims to be the biggest political party but had alliance with 45 parties across the country. “We have only joined hands with BSP and some other parties and they are rattled,” he said.
 
 Akhilesh said that regional parties were causing discomfort to BJP ahead of 2019 elections. “Both Central and state governments have failed on all fronts and to shift focus from farm distress and joblessness but we will expose their failure,” Akhilesh said.
 
