Bhopal: The Madhya Pradesh government has taken a U-turn after challenging a high court order that said there cannot be different age limits in competitive examinations on the basis of place of birth or place of residence.  The state government moved an application before Supreme Court to withdraw its special leave petition against the HC order, and the SC dismissed the SLP. Earlier, MP domicile candidates applying for PSC exams were given a relaxation of five years in age limit. On March 7 this year, Madhya Pradesh high court ordered that the relaxation is illegal and unconstitutional, and that the age limit for domicile and non-domicile candidates should be 28 years. The order was issued by a division bench comprising Chief Justice Hemant Gupta and Justice V K Shukla while hearing a petition challenging the amendment in age limit by MPPSC in its advertisement for recruitment of assistant professors. The examination was scheduled for March 15 and the post was advertised on December 12, 2017. The petitioners argued that fixing age bar on the basis of domicile was uncalled for and illegitimate. During the hearing, the state government said that the relaxation was given because of the level of unemployment. “We find that the condition in the advertisement for relaxation of age up to 40 years for candidates who are domiciles of Madhya Pradesh is unconstitutional, therefore, it is set aside,” Chief Justice Hemant Gupta and Justice Vijay Kumar Shukla ruled. This division bench, however, left it open to the state to grant age relaxation in “non-discriminatory manner” to candidates from both the state and outside in view of Articles 15 and 16 of Constitution of India. The state government had appealed in SC against the order, but applied on April 13 to withdraw the plea. Social activists have raised concerns over the state government’s stand in the matter. “Two ministers assured that they would be giving preference and now they have decided not to challenge the HC order. This is going to have wide implications,” said Vinayak Parihar of Vichar Madhya Pradesh. 