Nagpur: The judgement diluting provision of immediate arrest under the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes (Prevention of Atrocity) Act, to check alleged misuse, and the Bhima-Koregaon episode, appear to have blown the lid off the pent up emotions of the Dalit community. The followers of Ambedkar blame society’s hypocrisy about casteism for the violent response.

 The angry community, 650 of whom were booked by city police for the recent protests, says the protests were not just against the verdict or the Bhima-Koregaon riots targeting them. In personal chats a day after the bandh protests, some agitators shared personal experiences of casteist discrimination.
 
 One of the agitators from Kamal Chowk, named in three FIRs at Sadar, Jaripatka and Pachpaoli, realized he was an “untouchable” at a Pune hotel, where the owner did not let a waiter serve him water. “The owner asked me to take water kept some distance away,” he said. “It took me some time to realize the reason. I left the hotel in two days, but am wary of walking into any hotel,” he said.
 
 He also claimed to have been framed in the latest cases. “I was booked during the protest against Bhima-Koregaon too. I am facing half-a-dozen cases for highlighting the plight of my community, which was denied even basic rights for several hundred years,” he said. “Unfortunately, the media too portrays us as vandals,” he said.
 
 Another agitator faced similar humiliation at Ambejogai, Beed, where the landlord asked him to drop money into his hand to avoid a “touch”. “It was very embarrassing for me and my wife to face such behaviour in this age,” he said.
 
 Part of the peaceful protests in the bandh was Sanjay Mohile, a former airline employee, who has filed two cases under the Atrocity Act in Mumbai against his seniors, accusing them of suspending and sacking him due to his caste. “In office, I was targeted for protesting a casteist slur by seniors, who asked a painter not to use blue colour for the walls, as it represents the SC community. As an educated person, I challenged them,” he said. “I did not accept any benefits after being dismissed, as a protest,” he said.
 
 The National Congress Party’s (NCP) SC cell chief and north Nagpur’s prominent leader Mahendra Bhange was shocked to know he had been booked in a case at Jaripatka police station. He claims to have been coordinating with Pachpaoli police to direct his morcha peacefully towards Samvidhan Chowk from Awale Babu Chowk.
 
 “The Atrocity Act worked like a shield for the community. The judiciary looked at one weak case, and took away the only protection of the marginalized society, which has suffered for centuries,” said Bhange. “I was denied a passport due to two cases over protests in the past, though I have always helped police and administration,” he said.
 
 
