BHUBANESWAR: Two more villages from Similipal Tiger Reserve (STR) will be relocated to reduce human interference in the core area. The villages are Matakacha and Ramjodi under Karanjia forest division. 

 The villages are not located in the core area but adjoin the buffer zone. Their topography is such that there is interference in the core like movement of livestock reared by villagers and collection of non-timber forest produce by them, wildlife officials said. 
 
 "We have started the process of relocating the villagers, who are keen to be shifted. However, there are official formalities like to take the consent of villagers. The district-level committee (DLC) meeting where the district and revenue officials along with forest officials will be present is the forum where villagers consent will be finalised," said STR field director M  .
 
 Officials said DLC for Ramjodi is over. There are 133 families living in both villages. The rehabilitation package is offered to villagers according to the guidelines of National Tiger Conservation Authority ( ). 
 
 "Each family is provided 0.10 acre land. A rehabilitation colony will also set up for their stay. If the rehabilitation facility is not ready after the final consent, the villagers can also be provided temporary accommodation," said an officer. 
 
 Facilities such as deep borewell for safe drinking water will be provided to the villagers apart from utensils, dress materials, smokeless chullah and blankets, said the senior wildlife officer.
 
 Mohan said it is very important to keep the STR free of human interference to increase the population of big cats and ensure that poachers don't enter the area to hunt prey with the help of villagers.
 
 In 2016, the STR authorities relocated 47 families from Kabatghai village, close to  , which is known as the haven of big cats. The villagers have been relocated at Manda near   in the buffer area. Officials said there are 26 tigers in Similipal Tiger Reserve out of 40 in the state.
 
