JAIPUR: The family of the 10-year-old boy who died on Monday after falling into an open nullah in Shastri Nagar police station area will receive a compensation of Rs 50,000 from the state government. 

 The announcement was made after the family members of deceased Ravi Soni, along with public representatives, staged a massive protest demanding compensation. Sources in the police administration said that an assurance to provide Rs 2.5 lakh has also been provided by the   (JDA). The compensation amount will be given by the Tata firm which has been awarded the Dravyawati River project. A senior district administration officer said, "The state government would provide a compensation of Rs 50,000. As family members were demanding more compensation, we have directed the JDA to ask the awarded firm to pay Rs 2.5 lakh."
 
 Tuesday morning came as a rude shock to office goers who were commuting in Jhotwara, Sikar Road, Vidhyadhar Nagar through Ambabari junction. Traffic was thrown out of gear as the family members and locals blocked the arterial road near the junction for more than four hours.
 
 Long traffic snarls were witnessed in the area after victim's family kept the body in the middle of the road. Family members alleged that the death was caused due to negligence of development authority.   , a local   leader, alleged, "The death was caused due to negligence of civic body as it failed to fill the pit. The incident would have been averted if the state government had performed its duty on time." 
 
 Many also alleged that the Tata company, which is working on rejuvenation of Dravyawati River project dug the pit and death was caused due to its mistake. However, JDA official sources confirmed, the area was not touched by the firm. 
 
 To pacify the protesters, the teams from Vidhyadhar police station area and district administration reached the area. The cremation of body was done by the family members after receiving the assurance from the district administration. 
 
 On Monday, the incident occurred when Ravi Soni was running to catch a kite. The civil defence team recovered the body after struggling for more than an hour. A police official informed TOI, "Soni was a resident of Ambabari. He reached Kishan Bagh Harijaan Basti area near nullah while chasing a kite where the unfortunate incident occurred." 
 
 When he did not return home, his parents enquired about their son's whereabouts from neighbours. A frantic search was conducted but the kin failed to trace the child. After recovering the body, it was kept at   mortuary. 
 
 
