PUDUCHERRY: Chief minister V   on Friday welcomed the Supreme Court verdict on sharing Cauvery water among the states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala and the Union territory of Puducherry.

 The apex court allotted 284.75tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) of Cauvery water to Karnataka, including 4.75tmcft for Bengaluru, and 404.25tmcft to Tamil Nadu, but did not change the quantum of allotment made by the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (in 2007) for Kerala (30tmcft) and Puducherry (7tmcft).
 
 Puducherry CM welcomed the verdict, terming it as a boon for the   in Karaikal region, the tail end of Cauvery delta on the east coast.He urged the Union government to take immediate steps to implement the top court’s order and ensure that the Union territory gets its fair share of Cauvery water without fail every year. 
 
 The geographical area of the Karaikal region is 14,920 hectares, out of which 10,990 hectares is irrigated area. The region is dependent entirely on the river for irrigation, consumer water supply and other industrial requirements. Meanwhile, coming down heavily on the Rangasamy-led All India NR Congress, the chief minister said that rowdy elements ruled the roost during the party’s regime in the Union territory.
 
 Speaking after inaugurating a new automatic traffic signal at Koodapakkam in Villianur, Narayanasamy said criminal elements intimidated peace-loving people by engaging in land-grabbing and extorting money during the previous   regime.He said the Congress party, after forming the government in 2016, dealt rowdy elements with an iron hand and brought the law and order situation in the Union territory under control. “At present, a notorious rowdy has been booked under the Goondas Act and is lodged in the prison,” he said.
 
 He added that inquiry into the irregularities in the free mixie and grinder distribution scheme from the previous regime revealed that the Rangasamy government failed to distribute more than 40,000 freebies to the beneficiaries. His government has taken initiatives to attract investments to the tune of Rs 600 crore in Karaikal and Sedarapet, he added.
 
