CHANDIGARH:   government’s policy for rental housing will not just focus on students and young professionals coming to urban hubs from the hinterland, it will also cater to the housing needs of neglected elderly by giving relaxations in the building bylaws. 

 For bigger housing complexes on areas exceeding 5 acres and with density of at least 4,500 persons, a mini cineplex with two screens will also be permitted. As per the draft policy, the area housing senior citizens will be free of any charge. However, the permissible ground coverage will not exceed 35% of the project area to ensure more open area. “The presumption is that youngsters living away from their families will adopt seniors and shall prefer to spend quality time with them for mutual benefit. It will generate a healthy social environment,” reads the draft.
 
 For the draft policy, the   had given its recommendations to the department of urban development. Commenting on it,  , economic adviser to the Punjab committee of the chamber, said, “There is invariably a mad scramble for hostel accommodation in institutes. But outside the campuses, there were no building bylaws for students and they were forced to stay as paying guests. Such accommodations have their own problems and most of these are illegal. That is why there was a need for such a policy for students.”
 
 Where presently density is measured in terms of family units in residential accommodations, for rental housing properties the permissible density would have a cap of 900 persons per acre. The gross space allocated to senior citizens will not be counted in the floor area ratio calculations.
 
 “Punjab is probably the first step to take note of the problems faced by students when they come to big cities to study. The entire land under the scheme will be owned by the promoter and the state government will only act as a facilitator. In case the rental housing comes up in industrial area, it will be ensured that there is no industry in its immediate vicinity,” added an official.
 
 The policy has already been given a go ahead by the council of ministers last week.
 
 
