CHANDIGARH: City was abuzz with   by people belonging to four different cultures in their own traditional ways on Sunday. While the Assamese in the city celebrated Rangali Bihu, Tamil residents and Malayalees celebrated the beginning of their new year. Bengali residents too had fun celebrating Pratishtha Divas at Kalibari temple and Banga Bhawan. The TOI takes a look

 Tamilians celebrate Puthandu 
 
 Puthandu, the Tamil new year celebrations by   brought in hope and assurance of a brighter future for more than 250 students belonging to economically weaker section of society. These students studying in classes IX and X ,who were finding it difficult to buy books and other study material, were supported during a grand celebration at Bharati Bhavan in Sector 30, Chandigarh.
 
 Although Puthandu was on Saturday, the celebrations were held on Sunday, for it was a holiday.
 
 Keralites and Bengalis welcome new year 
 
 Around 3,000 Malayalees residing in and around Chandigarh celebrated Vishu, the first day of the Malayalam new year. The celebrations started early in the morning with Vishukkani at   temple in Sector 47, Chandigarh. Vishu is celebrated as the harvest festival, whose main ritual is Vishukkani. Rajeev Kumar, president at Sree Ayyappa Samajam said, “It is believed that the new year will be better if one witnesses an auspicious and joyful beginning on Vishu.”
 
 The Vishukkani setting consisted of items like rice, lemon, cucumber, coconut, betel leaves, metal mirror, jack fruit, yellow konna flowers, holy hindu texts and image of gods.
 
 “Every year, we come to the temple for Vishukkani as these festivals give us a chance to stay connected with the community. We are glad that we have this temple here. It gives us a feeling of home away from home,” said  , a malayalee resident living in the city for past 12 years.
 
 Talking about how they miss home during the festivals, a college student said, “I remember, when I was in school. All my cousins and relatives used to gather at our grandparents’ house. Here, it is only in the temple that we can see such a huge gatherings. I really miss being in Kerala during the festivals.”
 
 “In the afternoon, everyone used to prepare sumptuous lunch at their homes and invite their friends,” he added. 
 
 Meanwhile, hundreds of the Tricity-based Bengalis celebrated their 49th Pratishtha Diwas (foundation day) with puja followed by community lunch and a medical camp. The foundation for Kalibari was laid on April 15, 1970. The day began with puja at 9am followed by a medical and blood donation camp. At 11am, there was Pushpanjali (offering of flowers) and then Mahabhog (community lunch). This included khichdi, rice, mixed veg and other items. The non-Bengali residents too thronged the temple on the day and savoured the lunch.
 
 “For us it is a reason to visit the temple with friends and family. At such gatherings, you get a sense of belongingness,” said  , a Bengali resident living in Sector 47.
 
 “It is a double celebration for us as the day also marks the beginning of Bengali new year. It feels good to be a part of celebrations wherein you meet others from your own community. This also gives me an opportunity to meet and know new people from our community,” said Bandana Chakrobarty.
 
 Bihu fervour 
 
 Nearly 400 Assamese residents, mainly students from the Tricity and surroundings like Ambala participated in celebrations of Rangali Bihu at Panchayat Bhavan. Rangali Bihu, also known as  , refers to the first month of the Assamese calendar and is one of the major festivals of Assam. Bihu is associated with agriculture and harvest of rice. The highlight of Rangali Bihu is their folk dance form Bihu, which was performed during the celebration to keep up the festive spirit.
 
 
