Last year, we visited Victoria falls in Zimbabwe where we came across an interesting sign board comparing all three major waterfalls of the world. Reading this signboard made us recall two other waterfalls we visited earlier - Niagara in the US and Iguazu in Brazil. 

 To visit over 30 countries for tourism is one thing. But to see all three waterfalls in a life is something else. 
 
 Among the three waterfalls, we visited Niagara as our first destination, simply following the established footsteps. Niagara, undoubtedly, is mesmerizing and the volume of water flowing down is mindboggling. The best part of Niagara is that the US and   governments have made best-quality arrangements for visitors to not only get the best view of this nature's majestic beauty, but also a comfortable environment for one and all. 
 
 The "Caves of Wind" are designed to thoroughly trench the visitors directly under the fall, while the " " boat ride took us close to its horse-shoe portion. The zenith of this episode was the helicopter ride over the entire region to gasp the length and breadth of the majestic fall.
 
 Then came Iguazu in Brazil, relatively less visited by Indian tourists. We had undertaken a short tour of the South American continent - which included a few unique places, like the first Equator line drawn in the world way back in 1736 - Ciudad Mitad del Mundo" (Middle of the World City), in Ecuador, the Panama canal - a 20th century bypass between Pacific and   oceans, Machu Picchu - a 15th-century Inca citadel on the mountains in the Cusco region of   and, last but not the least, Iguazu falls in Brazil. 
 
 The waterfalls are on the Iguazu River on the border of the Argentine province of Misiones and the Brazilian state of Parana. They are the widest waterfalls system in the world. The Iguazu flows through Brazil. But most of the falls are on the Argentine side. The name, "Iguazu" comes from the Guarani or Tupi word "y", meaning "water", and "uasu" (pronounced as wasu), meaning "big". 
 
 Legend has it that a deity planned to marry a beautiful woman called Naipi, who fled with her mortal lover   in a canoe. In a rage, the deity sliced the river, creating the waterfalls and condemning the lovers to an eternal fall. The first European to record the existence of the falls was the Spanish conquistador, Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, in 1541. 
 
 Facilities at Iguazu are far behind Niagara in terms of tourists' comfort. We boarded a boat that took us through the gorge between Brazil and Argentina. The water volumes have substantially reduced thanks to the Itaipu dam constructed on the Parana River at the border between Brazil and Paraguay.
 
 The last among the three water falls we visited was Victoria in Zimbabwe on the Zambezi River along the border of   and Zimbabwe. 
 
 David Livingstone, the Scottish missionary and explorer, is believed to have been the first European to view Victoria falls on November 16, 1855, from what is now known as Livingstone Island. Livingstone named his discovery in the honour of Queen Victoria of Britain, but the indigenous Tonga name, Mosi-oa-Tunya - "The Smoke That Thunders" - continues in common usage as well. The Zimbabwe side offers 16 viewing points and it takes around 2 hours to walk through. The spray from the falls typically rises to a height of over 400m (1,300 ft) and sometimes even twice as high and is visible from up to 48km (30 miles) away. 
 
 At full moon, a "moon-bow" can be seen in the spray instead of the usual daylight rainbow. As we visited the falls in April (rainy season), the flying smoke hampered the visibility to a large extent. It is impossible to see the foot of the falls and most of its face and the walks along the cliff opposite it are in a constant shower and shrouded in mist. Close to the edge of the cliff, spray shoots upward like inverted rain, especially at Zambia's Knife-Edge Bridge. This bridge crosses the Zambezi River just below the Victoria falls and is built over the second gorge of the falls, linking the two countries with border posts approaching to both ends. The funny part of this bridge is that adventure-enthusiasts undertake Bungee jumping over this no-man's land. The bridge was prefabricated in England, before being shipped to the Mozambique port of Beira and then transported on the newly constructed railway to the Victoria falls. It took 14 months to construct and was completed in 1905. 
 
  The writer is a resident of Pune and a travel enthusiast 
 
 
