CHENNAI: Nearly six months after the city corporation identified 200 volunteers to participate in the ‘Aapta Mitra’ project, a central government-sponsored initiative aimed at training participants to assist district administrations during times of disaster, little headway has been made with regards to training.

 Chennai was identified among the 30 flood-prone districts across the country by the   (NDMA) and Rs 45.40 lakh expected to be spent towards the training and equipping of 200 community volunteers in each of the 30 districts.
 
 According to the NDMA’s description of the programme, the project would impart community volunteers with “skills needed to respond to the community’s immediate needs in the aftermath of a disaster, enabling them to undertake basic relief and rescue tasks during emergency situations.” The corporation randomly selected 200 candidates from its locally-pooled list of volunteers. “We have a list of more than 3,500 volunteers which we gathered after the 2015 floods,” said a corporation official.
 
 The state disaster management authority (SMA), the nodal agency for the project in Tamil Nadu, had already received the list of volunteer names last year. Last week, the   asked for a fresh list to be sent across incorporating a few more columns. “They wanted details like Aadhaar number, taluk and block details. We have forwarded another list,” an official said, adding that the civic body had no clarity on when the actual training session would begin.
 
 The training aspect will be outsourced to a government institution, most likely the TN fire and rescue services department, the official added. At the completion of training, the volunteer will be certified by the NDMA and the training institution. He/she will also be given an emergency response kit worth Rs 5,000.
 
 The corporation, however, has only a vague idea on how the certified volunteers would be put to use, should a disaster occur. “We will need instructions on whether these volunteers, after training, would be equipped enough to be sent to rescue situations or if their role would be limited to rehabilitation and ground support,” the official added.
 
 
