BHUBANESWAR: Over 7,500 block grant college teachers will boycott Plus II evaluation protesting the state government’s order to submit affidavit to avail grant-in-aid facilities. The plus II evaluation will start from April 4 in 56 centres of the state.

 The teachers under the aegis of the Odisha School College Teachers’ and Employees’ United Forum will stage dharna in front of the evaluation centres seeking fulfillment of their seven-point-charter of demands including the withdrawal of affidavit order.
 
 Forum’s convener Pabitra Mahala said they have also demanded the government to provide them with seventh pay commission salary. They also urged the government to hike the retirement age from 60 years to 62 years of teachers and other staff working in aided, new aided schools and colleges of the state.
 
 “We have already staged demonstration in front of the state assembly protesting the affidavit order. But the government is not paying heed to our demands. Sometimes the government threatens us to shut the mouth of the teachers. But we are not afraid of the threatening. If the government does not fulfill our demands, we will boycott the evaluation process,” said Mahala. 
 
 Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE), which conducts the plus II examination, will conduct the evaluation process in two phases at 56 centres of the state. First phase will begin from April 4, while second phase will start from April 16. Out of the 56 centres, e-evaluation of answer papers will be held at 29 centres, official sources said.
 
 “We normally engage around 15,000 teachers for the evaluation process. But this year, a section of college teachers want to boycott the evaluation process. We hope they will join with us for the important work,”  , deputy controller of examinations of CHSE. 
 
 School and mass education minister Badri Narayan Patra said evaluation is the duty of the teachers. He appealed them to join with other government teachers in evaluation of Plus II answer sheets. “If they do not evaluate answer papers, we will take other alternatives to tackle the situation. I think we will discuss with the higher education department to help us out,” he added. 
 
