CHANDIGARH: Amid growing concern for a formal meeting between visiting Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and chief minister  , the suspense over the two leaders’ actually doing so is likely to end on Monday. Sources said the chief minister’s office has still not finalized the plan for a meeting in consultation with the Canadian high commission. However, a last minute addition is not being ruled out, they said.

 Trudeau is scheduled to visit the Golden Temple on February 21. The visit comes in the backdrop of Amarinder refusing to meet Canadian deference minister   last year.
 
 Meanwhile, on Sunday, apart from AAP leader Bhagwant Mann, noted academician S S Johl too made a case for a meeting between the two leaders. Sajjan too has reportedly expressed hope that the Canadian high commission would take the initiative for arranging a meeting. In addition, there have been indications that Amarinder may be in Amritsar to receive Trudeau during his brief visit to pay obeisance.
 
 “Earlier the (Canadian) defense minister and now the Prime Minister of Canada, along with his Punjabi ministers on visit to India, have become indifferent to Punjab due to the attitude of our chief minister. It may not make any difference to the CM personally, but it makes a difference for the state and its people. Punjab due to this attitude is losing golden opportunities for Canadian investments and goodwill. Person sitting at the helm needs to have big heart,” said Johl.
 
  leader Raj Kumar Verka, meanwhile, said the meeting has to be decided by the high commission and the Congress state government would go by whatever decision is taken. There has been a feeling among some sections that Canadian government should take stringent action against radical groups getting patronage from its soil.
 
 Trudeau will visit the Golden Temple after a ceremonial cultural reception at the airport and fly to Delhi around 1 pm. An advanced liaisoning team has already visited the most important Sikh shrine in connection with Trudeau’s visit. The ministry of external affairs has also sent two sample welcome banners containing high-resolution photographs of Trudeau and Prime Minister   to be placed at the airport and near important landmarks on the route to be taken by Trudeau’s delegation.
 
 
