NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old cab   was abducted,   and robbed of his car and belongings in Saket on Friday evening. He was driven around for over half an hour before finally being dumped in a secluded spot. This incident comes barely two weeks after a cab driver was killed in   by five men posing as riders.

 A case was registered on Saturday when the man approached police after being discharged from a hospital. The victim, Raj Kumar, said that he doesn’t even know who took him to the hospital. “I was unconscious when I was thrown out of my car. When I woke up, I found my family members next to me,” he told TOI.
 
 Kumar said that he got a booking to pick up the four accused men from   traffic signal to take them to  . He alleged that the ride details have been removed from the database of the cab company.
 
 “The men got down midway. As I was about to leave, the men suddenly opened the rear door and hopped inside. When I asked them to move out, they said that they wanted me to stop speaking and drive them around. I refused in the anticipation of getting another booking,” said Kumar.
 
 Upon his refusal, the men grabbed him by the neck and threatened to harm him if he did not start driving the car. “I got scared, so found the best option to do their bidding. I then started to drive towards Jwala Pahadi,” he said.
 
 When the cab reached near Chhatarpur, the man sitting behind him pulled his collar, forcing him to stop the car. The men sitting on the rear seat then pulled him behind and thrashed him until he fell unconscious. After driving around for over half an hour, they threw him at an isolated spot and sped away in the car.
 
 A case under IPC sections 392 (punishment for robbery), 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) has been registered at Saket police station. On Saturday night, police tracked down the car in a locality near the spot where Kumar was dumped. Police said efforts are on to identify and nab the accused men.
 
 
