COIMBATORE: Commuters were by and large taken aback as the government buses hiked the fares without any prior intimation on Saturday. Several passengers were seen undecided about their travel plans at   bus stand, saying they were caught unawares.

 “We brought just enough money for the old bus fare. Now, we don’t know what to do,” said a woman from  , who wanted to board a bus to Pollachi. The fare for an ordinary bus (to Pollachi) was hiked to Rs 25 from Rs 17, while express bus fare was increased to Rs 34 from Rs 23.
 
 Several commuters were seen boarding private buses. A government bus driver at Ukkadam bus stand said passengers were baffled by the fare hike. “It will take three to four days for them to get used to it,” he added.
 
 The   bus stand wore an almost deserted look. The ticket fare for   was hiked to Rs 24 from Rs 16 and that of Ooty was increased to Rs 83 from Rs 53. A commuter, who was waiting to board a bus to Manjoor in Ooty, said he was not aware of the hike and was not sure how much he would be charged.
 
 It was not just commuters who were caught unawares. Several bus drivers and conductors also said they were yet to get to know the full fare revision.
 
 Meanwhile, around 50 passengers on Saturday morning staged a protest at Thudiyalur bus stop, condemning the bus fare hike.
 
 Political and consumer organisations also condemned the hike. In a statement,   said the sudden hike in the government bus fare would affect the poor and the middle class people badly. “If the 22,509 buses of transport department are managed properly, the state can earn a profit of Rs 11.25 crore,” the statement said. It also blamed the mismanagement for the department incurring a loss of 9crore.
 
 Pointing out that they have understood the reasons for increasing the bus fare after six years, members of   in a statement said they can’t accept the steep increase which would severely affect the public. In 22 cases, it is more than 100% increase in the ticket fare. “In some cases, it is a 125% increase in town buses, which cannot be accepted,”the statement further said.
 
 
