AURANGABAD: In a bid to find a solution to dispose of several metric tonnes of dry waste that the city produces daily, acting civic chief Naval Kishore Ram has roped in NGOs as well as officers who have helped the   administration in dealing with the huge amount of waste that was produced during  . 

 Amidst civic officials as well as corporators pushing for purchase of machines for collection and segregation of waste, the young IAS officer has opposed the idea, saying that machines should ease the work instead of replacing human beings and fuelling unemployment.
 
 “It has never happened that experts have been roped in to solve garbage-like issues. Instead of taking help from experts to solve the problem, still there are some who are insisting on purchase of machines,” Kishore told TOI on Monday. 
 
 The official said that he is in talks with the NGOs as well as officers, who played a key role in the post-Kumbh Mela   crisis that plagued Nashik in the year 2015. “We have called some of them to the city for reviewing the situation and providing solutions.”
 
 Refusing to elaborate on the NGOs and officers, Kishore said, “It is premature to give details about them.”
 
 Sources said that the civic body is also in touch with some other NGOs as well as private organisations that have promised to help in resolving the city’s garbage issue.
 
 Another official privy to the development said that since Sunday morning, an NGO, with the help of 50 of its members, has carried out a detailed survey and presented a report to the civic chief on Monday evening. It has suggested measures that could be taken to resolve the issue.
 
 On an average, the city produces about 430 metric tonnes of garbage daily, out of which anything between 30% and 40% is dry waste. With the high court restraining the civic body from dumping the waste at the Naregaon/Mandki dump yard, residents from different parts of   have violently opposed the move to dump the garbage in their vicinities, leaving the civic body in a fix.
 
 The acting municipal commissioner has managed to identify 102 spots in the city where the wet waste can be processed and turned into compost. 
 
 Additional municipal commissioner   said that due to a lack of segregation at source, the garbage problem is only spiralling in the city. 
 
 
