PATIALA: A tip-off provided by a man facing criminal charges led the vigilance bureau to bust an alleged scam on Tuesday in which a junior doctor and a cop would take bribes to change medico-legal reports (MLRs) at Government Rajindra Hospital here.

 Booked in a criminal case in September last year, Madan Singh of Kalar Bhaini village alleged in his complaint that he was taken aback when one of the cops, who was investigating his case, approached him and asked him to pay Rs 50,000 for not adding Section 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapon) of IPC against him while seeking medical opinion from a forensics expert on the   before filing a charge sheet in the case.
 
 Madan had been booked in a cross-FIR for a fight he had with one Gurjant Singh of his village.
 
  The cross FIR against the duo had been registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed with a common object), 354 (outraging modesty of woman) and 427 (mischief) of IPC.
 
 Instead of paying the  , Madan reported the matter to the state vigilance bureau. On receiving the complaint, the VB asked him to strike a deal with the cop, who had been identified as  , a constable posted at Pasiana police station, Patiala. 
 
 As directed, Madan managed to coax Baljinder into accepting Rs 30,000 from him for not adding Section 326 against him and making the required changes in the medico-legal report. Bajinder then assured Madan that he was in touch with a junior doctor, who would help him change the MLR, so that Section 326 was not incorporated in the FIR.
 
 After the deal was struck, vigilance bureau sleuths laid a trap and accompanied Madan to Passian police station, where he handed over Rs 25,000 to Baljinder. When the accused was pocketing the money, the vigilance bureau team caught him red-handed and also recovered the powder-coated currency. On being washed, the constable's hands turned red, implying that he had taken the money from the complaint.
 
 The investigation officer, Pritpal Singh, said Balwinder had revealed during interrogation that he had managed to involve Dr Charan Kamal in the racket. He told his interrogators that he was supposed to pay 50% (Rs 15,000) of the bribe to the doctor. SSP Jaspreet Singh Sidhu said there was strong possibility that the cop had managed to blackmail many others also and these details were yet to be investigated. He said the bureau had sought records from the police station concerned and hospital to strengthen the case against the two. He said the duo had been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act and under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. While the constable had been arrested from the spot, Dr Kamal was arrested some time later.
 
 
