MUMBAI: The state is aggressively pushing for redevelopment of shanties in line with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ambitious ‘Housing for All by 2022’ project.

 Chief minister   requested for speedy approval to   land acquisition bill (The right to fair compensation and transparency in land acquisition, rehabilitation and resettlement Bill 2018), which was passed recently.
 
 Fadnavis said that the Centre will give all the required approvals to the state's decision to incorporate slumdwellers up to 2011 under the PM’s ambitious housing scheme. He has also sought diluting of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) guidelines to aid redevelopment of slum pockets.
 
 The state government has already passed legislation in December to allow this. The amendment bill to make changes to the   (Improvement, Clearance and Redevelopment) Act 1971 in the assembly, which paves the way for more slum pockets to be redeveloped. The amendment means any ineligible slumdweller may be accommodated in a scheme of the   by merely paying the construction cost of a flat. The legislation was sent to the Centre for all necessary approvals, including the President's assent, which Fadnavis said will be come through in the next 10 days. Fadnavis was in Delhi to meet   staffers to discuss pending projects. Fadnavis has also sought the waiver of a critical condition in the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) notification, 2011, due to which development of 252 slum pockets in Mumbai is stuck. Fadnavis said that the Centre is positive and will issue a notification in the next couple of days.
 
 The CRZ notification, 2011, had allowed only public private partnerships with 51% share being with the state government to undertake slum redevelopment projects in CRZ areas. “The Centre had later decided to waive the clause, but a notification to the effect was never issued,” said Fadnavis. The Union cabinet will soon approve the decision to provide assistance for completion of over 100 pending irrigation projects.
 
