NASHIK: The civic body has decided to crack the whip on erring residents for dumping garbage in open spaces instead of handing it over to the garbage vans that visits their localities on a daily basis. 

 The health committee, comprising elected members and officials of the health department, has zeroed down on 421 black spots spread across the city where residents are allegedly resorting to dumping of garbage in the open.
 
 The issue came up for discussion at the panel's meeting on Wednesday and the members expressed their anguish that such irresponsible acts are not only unhygienic but also destroying the cleanliness of the city.
 
 "The health department would immediately start issuing notices to 500 households located near such black spots cautioning them not to dump the filth in the open," chairman of the health committee   said.
 
 According to him, if such notices do not have any impact on the local residents, the department would start imposing fine of Rs 250 from each of the households near those black spots.
 
 Initially, the civic body's health department had identified 468 black spots across the city where garbage was being dumped. But after series of measures by the municipal corporation, the numbers of spots reduced by 47.
 
 "Our feedback is that 85% of the city residents comply with norms and hand over the garbage to the van attendants that visit the localities on a daily basis. But the rest 15% of the people are acting irresponsible. There is no option but to take action against these 15% people for not following the norms," added Kulkarni.
 
 The chairman said the health committee of   has decided to take tough action for reducing the number of black spots across the city. "As part of this, we have decided to send notices to 500 households in each black spot, warning them of punitive action if they are found dumping garbage or any waste in the open," said Kulkarni.
 
 The NMC has already printed notices and it will be served to the households around 421 black spots. A total of 2.10 lakh notices are to be served across the city shortly. In the   survey involving 434 cities across the country by the union ministry of housing and urban affairs,   had an unimpressive ranking of 151.
 
 Jolted by that poor ranking, the civic body started taking serious efforts to make the city clean. This year too, the NMC has taken efforts to find a place among top 10 clean cities in the country. The result of this year's survey is likely to be declared next month.
 
 "But despite NMC's efforts, there are still 421 black spots in the city due to lack of people's involvement in these areas. People are also responsible to keep their surroundings clean and use garbage vans instead of dumping it in the open," stated the panel members.
 
 Moreover, the NMC is also serious to take action against those who throw waste in river Godavari, wash their vehicles and clothes that leads to the river pollution. NGOs, government agencies, social outfits, political parties have conducted cleaning activities in the river several times.
 
 "Now it's time to take action against such people who cause river pollution. I have directed the health officials to take action against them,"   said.
 
  Dengue, swine flu under control: NMC's health department on Wednesday informed the health committee that diseases like dengue, swine flu and malaria have come under control. No patients were found suffering from these diseases between March 1 and 12. The health department submitted the health report to the committee during a meeting on Wednesday. 
 
 
