Madurai: Taking serious note of a 1991 Tamil Nadu government order permitting its employees to take up private foreign assignments, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Friday sought details from the government of those who had worked and are working abroad. It also suo motu impleaded secretaries of state’s personnel and administrative reforms and labour and employment to the case. 

 The division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and R Tharani heard an appeal filed by the government against the single judge order dated January 6 last year on a writ petition filed by former government officer A Barakat Alikhan. 
 
 Alikhan, who had joined as a junior assistant in 1976 in Ramanathapuram district revenue unit, retired as tahsildar in 2009. While he was working as deputy tahsildar, he wanted to go to Dubai by applying extraordinary leave on loss of pay. As there was no reply from the government, he left for Dubai, where he worked for three years. After his return, the government took action against him by stopping his increment and denying him promotion to the post of deputy collector for having gone to Dubai without getting no objection certificate. Challenging it, he filed a case before the high court bench. The single judge passed an order on January 6 last year directing the government to give him notional promotion. Against it, the government preferred an appeal. 
 
 The bench said “It is very surprising to note that there is an acute unemployment problem in the country. When lakhs and lakhs of youngsters are standing in queues before the employment exchange, it is not understandable as to how the government permits its servants to take private foreign assignments by virtue of its orders passed by the personnel and administrative reforms department on May 20, 1991 and on August 12, 1994. No doubt the government has a prerogative power to permit an officer to go on deputation to foreign country. It causes problems to the administration in many ways, including no recruitment could be made for the said post.”
 
 The bench further said, “Prima facie it appears that those government orders are against public interest by which one person can have two employments – one in the mother land and other in a foreign country. This has to be viewed seriously. Therefore, the court directs the government to answer to the questions regarding the number of people (department wise) who have been permitted to go to abroad and number of them who rejoined duty after finishing their foreign employment, the maximum time granted for foreign private employment and number of people who have got registered with the employment exchange for the job as on date.” 
 
 The judges then adjourned the case to February 15. 
 
 
