NEW DELHI: Tracking his phone’s location helped a software engineer recover his   with the help from cops who nabbed two snatchers.

 DCP (east) Omvir Singh said that the accused have been identified as Mohd Intzar and Bilal. They have been arrested under sections of robbery and arms act.
 
 Police said that incident occurred on Monday around 8.15pm on Vasundhara road, when one Tarun Kumar (23), was going to Khajuri Khas from office. He was riding pillion on a scooty driven by his friend  , and had opened Google maps for directions to the location. Suddenly, a black Pulsar motorcycle came along the scooty and intercepted them.
 
 Bilal, who was riding pillion to Intzar, allegedly pulled out a country made pistol and aimed it at Kumar, asking him to hand over his Moto G5 mobile phone to them. Taking the phone, the accused fled, going towards Trilokpuri. After chasing them for some distance, Kumar, knowing that the GPS tracker of his phone is currently active, called up his office colleague and asked him to track his phone.
 
 They received the coordinates of the phone, giving the phone’s location near a Shiv temple in Trilokpuri’s Block 14. The youths sensed danger going there alone and informed the police.
 
 Two policemen responded to the call and met Kumar and Verma at the Shiva temple. Tracking the phone, they reached a municipal school near Trilokpuri Block 16. Kumar and Verma recognised the accused there.
 
 When cops challenged the accused, Bilal tried to threaten the cops by aiming his pistol towards them, warning them not to come forward.
 
 One of the cops then fired in the air from his own revolver, telling the accused to keep their weapons on the ground and surrender. Panicked, the accused agreed and were subsequently overpowered and handcuffed. Kumar’s mobile phone was also recovered.
 
 Police officers said that the accused were residents of Trilokpuri and have several past cases registered against them. 
 
 During interrogation, the country made pistol recovered from them was found to be bought from a local criminal in northeast Delhi. The accused would conduct several snatching, using the pistol to threaten victims.
 
 
