NOIDA: A 27-year-old former national-level boxer was found dead with bullet marks in the head and back in his rented flat in Greater Noida’s   1 on Friday.

 Jitender Mann, who had participated in several boxing tournaments across the country before retiring because of an injury, had been working as a trainer in a gym in   1 for the past three years. Police said they had found three empty bullet cartridges and beer bottles from his flat in AVJ Heights Society and the door was locked from outside. Mann’s body was found under a blanket with blood stains on Friday afternoon when his cousin  , who had the keys to the room he once shared with the former boxer, opened the door.
 
 The police said primary investigation had revealed that Mann had been shot in the back and the head from close range. However, none of Mann’s neighbours or the guards manning the apartment complex could remember having heard any shot being fired. The police suspect Mann was murdered on Wednesday evening.
 
 According to police, Mann, who hailed from Alipur in Delhi, had last gone to the gym on Wednesday morning and told his employer Nitin he would take an off in the evening. He did not come to work the next day and his phone, too, was not reachable, the gym owner said. Unable to reach the former boxer on the phone, Nitin called up Pritam, who lived in the same flat till October last year.
  
  
  
 “I opened the door with another set of keys I had. I found him lying on the floor and there were blood stains all around,” Pritam said. “I then informed his family and the police.”
 
 Sources said a team of policemen and forensic experts found the room rummaged and cartridges and beer bottles lying on the floor. Mann’s phone was missing and the police suspect it was taken away by his killers. Mann’s employer Nitin said he had received a text from the former boxer’s cellphone on Wednesday saying his friend’s father had died. 
 
 Mann had three bullet marks in the back and one in the head. None of his neighbours claimed to have seen or heard anything amiss. The 18-floor flat where Mann stayed on rent does not have any CCTV cameras in the lobby.
 
 “He stayed in the adjacent flat but we hardly interacted. We came to know about the murder this afternoon,” said Sujata Kumari, Mann’s next-door neighbour.
 
 The AVJ Heights Society, where the former boxer stayed, does not have a welfare association and the developer takes care of the maintenance. “There are 30 guards at the society for 24x7 security. We have CCTV cameras in the lifts and terrace but not in the lobbies. We also came to know about the murder in the afternoon. We will co-operate with the police in their investigation,” said an AVJ Heights manager. 
 
 Mann was associated with the  , whose website mentions he had actively participated in tournaments across the country from 2010-12. Mann took part in the 56th Senior National Boxing Championship in Hyderabad in October 2010, Federation Cup Boxing Championship in Andhra Pradesh in October 2010, Sahara 57th Senior National Boxing Championship at Talkatora Stadium in Delhi in July 2010, 4th Central Zone Boxing Championship in March 2011, and so on. 
 
 Mann had won two gold medals — First Dinesh Sejal Open Invitation Senior Men Boxing Championship in 2011 in New Delhi and Fourth Central Zone Boing Championship in 2011 in Uttarakhand. He also bagged a silver and bronze in Sahara 57th Senior National Boxing Championship in Delhi in 2010 and Sahara 58th Senior Men National Boxing Championships at Alagappa in 2011.
 
 His family said Mann also represented India in junior boxing competitions in Russia and Uzbekistan. He, however, had to quit active boxing three months ago following an injury.
 
 Suniti, SP (rural) of GB Nagar, said Mann’s brother Devendra had filed an FIR against unknown persons. His body has been sent for postmortem and the reports are awaited.
 
 
