KOLKATA: The state higher education department, enth-used by the University Grants Commission’s granting of grade-I autonomy to Jadavpur University, is pushing other state-run   to apply for graded autonomy and has sought reports on their preparedness to apply for it.

 At a meeting of vice-chancellors convened by the gov-ernment on Tuesday, the first such meeting after almost six months, varsity heads will have to inform education minister Partha Chatterjee the measures they have adopted to follow   guidelines and apply for graded autonomy. The higher education department will also have to be updated about the progress of framing new syllabi and implement a choice-based credit system in the undergraduate curriculum.
 
 “VCs will have to tell us what measures they are adopting to bag the graded autonomous status like JU,” said a senior higher education department official.
 
 Heads of some universities, though, are apprehensive that the gradation that encourages self-reliance in funding may mean the gradual end of central and, possibly, state funds in future.
 
 “Those universities in grade I are being given autonomy and sufficient funds. These institutes are also being given freedom to start their own courses, recruit faculty, take in foreign students and open offshore campuses. But this may also be interpreted as a veiled suggestion that the universities should not claim funds. Academic autonomy is welcome but financial autonomy may signal the beginning of privatisation,” said an official.
 
 By putting it on the agenda for Tuesday’s meeting, the government wanted a threadbare discussion on the subject, an official said.
 
 A VC, who would be attending the meeting, said university heads too wanted to know the state government’s views on the matter. “It may be an indication that the higher education department wants all state-run universities to upgrade their status and apply for high-quality international rankings by improving the NAAC score,” she said.
 
 To apply for grade-I autonomy, the universities have to be accredited by NAAC with a score of 3.51 or above or they have to receive a corresponding accreditation grade score from a reputed agency empanelled by the UGC or has to be ranked among top 500 institutes in reputed world rankings.
 
 
