KOLKATA: Harsh glare on every move they make could turn doctors defensive and prevent them from taking decisions that involve a certain degree of risk. Conservative treatment is going to be the obvious outcome of the suspension and patients will suffer yet again, felt city medics and others working at  .

 Doctors will now be under a ‘lot of pressure since every verdict leads to a movement’, felt   of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) consultant  . “Since an interventional   has been suspended for a year, every radiologist will now be wary. On the flip side, everybody will play safe by recommending more investigations, tests and unnecessary medication. So, while this decision may have vindicated the patient party’s stand, it is neither encouraging for doctors nor for the patient community as a large,” said Biswas. 
  
 
 
 Treatment is not a transaction in which the doctor is on one side and the patient on the other, according to cardiac surgeon Kunal Sarkar. “I hope this verdict will help to bring a kind of rationality into the system of treatment and redressal of patient grievances rather than pit one against another. Let this be an exercise in which the service of medicine can be offered better to patients,” said Sarkar.
 
 Senior oncologist Subir Ganguly observed that while the verdict will make common people happy, it will also put doctors on alert. “It is expected that council has taken all the facts into consideration. If there is negligence or error, then you can’t avoid penalty. The council is our regulatory body and we must accept its decision,” said Ganguly.
 
 It’s time for doctors to transform themselves into more accountable professionals who are transparent about their actions, felt oncologist Diptendra Sarkar. “Society now demands the highest quality of treatment. We, as doctors, will have to live up to expectations. It will get progressively more stressful for us, but we must adapt ourselves to the more exacting demands of our profession. Every profession is getting more demanding and medicine is not an expception,” he said. He added that the cancellation of a doctor’s registration can never be a welcome move.
 
 City private hospitals felt the verdict could lead to a further depletion of patients’ trust. “It is extremely sad since nobody can predict the outcome of treatment. Doctors act in good faith and in the best interest of patients. While penalty can’t be avoided if an error is committed, this will create a wedge between patients and hospitals,” said Alok Roy, chairperson of Medical Superspeciality Hospital.
 
 Another private hospital CEO said the penalty will encourage patients to question treatment more aggressively. “We have been struggling to deal with patients over the last one year. They have been threatening legal action at every step. This verdict brings the glare back on hospitals and doctors once again. There could again be a spate of allegations, ransacks and police cases,” he said.
 
