GHAZIABAD: Lawyers in 22 districts across western   abstained from work on Wednesday in support of the strike call given by the   over the administration’s decision to remove a life-size statue of BR   from the court compound here.

 Around 2am on Tuesday, police had removed the statue of the Dalit icon saying the bar association of the Ghaziabad court hadn’t taken permission from the administration before installing the statue. The move led to a face-off between the lawyers and the police. While the lawyers staged a protest, the police fortified the area with heavy presence.
 
 On Wednesday, the situation remained tense but there was no untoward incident. While the lawyers stayed away from work as they had announced on Tuesday, the police guarded the court compound.
 
 There was, however, a minor confrontation between the agitation lawyers and administrative officials after the police removed a portrait of Ambedkar that the bar association members had put up at the protest site.
 
 The lawyers of the Ghaziabad court said they would hold a general body meeting of the bar association on Thursday to decide on the next course of action.
 
 “We have been supported by the bar associations of 22 districts across western UP,” said Parminder Nagar, the secretary of the Ghaziabad Bar Association. “As of now, we are lying low but have not given up on our demand of re-installing the statue of B R Ambedkar. We will hold a general body meeting on Thursday to decide the next course of action,” he added.
 
 The administration signalled it was no mood to relent and continued with the heavy police presence around the court compound. 
 
 “The situation on Wednesday was as normal as any other day. We have been assured by the office-bearers of the bar association that they will wait for the government’s decision on the matter,” said Himanshu Gautam, additional district magistrate, City. 
 
 After the protest on Tuesday, the police had lodged   against 17 persons, including the bar association’s president Rakesh Tyagi Kakra. The FIRs had been registered under Section 447 (criminal trespassing) of the IPC and sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.
 
 Officials had on Tuesday quoted a 2008 government order that debars any individual, organisation or group from installing statues of saints, freedom fighters and others without the permission of the administration.
 
 
