MANALI: A special panel has proposed that to decongest Manali, Kullu and Bhunter government buildings needed to be shifted away from the national highway, land needed to be reclaimed from Beas to build parking and link roads, existing roads ought to be interlinked and existing bridges widened and new ones built on the Beas. The proposal was submitted before the   high court which has been prodding the state government to ensure smooth traffic movement in Kullu district.

 According to the detailed future traffic plan submitted in HC, there is dire need of developing road and bridge infrastructure to avoid jamming of roads of district. A detailed inspection by the committee showed that Manali, Kullu and Bhunter had already become congested with “very less possibility for expansion of roads and parking”. Manali becomes most congested in peak tourist season and a ropeway to   temple can provide relief to this place, the police panel has suggested.
 
 Kullu and Manali are connected by a national and a state highway on either side of the Beas. Residents and tourists need to go to Manali town to reach any destination. Police have submitted a possible plan to build a motorable bridge on the Beas at Rangri and connect the state highway with national highway via existing bridge at Bahnu so that light vehicles stay out of Manali town.
 
 Police have proposed to declare Old   road a state highway and widen it. Interconnecting Hidimba Temple Road with   and Log Hut Road, making alternate road to Old Manali by reclaiming land from Beas, shifting Manali’s old bus stand and making a multi-storey parking are other proposals.
 
 In Bhunter, government offices are located close to national highway and visitors park their vehicles on the road. The proposal is to shift government buildings, build bus stand and make multi-storey parking in place of old bus stand. In Kullu, making bypass roads including Shitla Mata Temple-Lag Valley, Sarwari-Pirdi bridge and construction of lift parking are all part of the plan. The proposal includes building overhead bridges for pedestrians at congested places and widen some existing road bridges.
 
 Police have asked PWD and municipal councils in Kullu and Manali to report cases of encroachment. Police also submitted that most congested areas of district need to be divided into sectors and responsibility fixed of officer for traffic regulation. There is alos proposal that areas being used by the National Highway Authority of India for dumping debris can be developed as parking for tourist vehicles. The court is yet to pass any order on the proposal.
 
 Kullu additional superintendent of police   said, “We visited these spots and prepared the traffic plan which is nearly feasible. Construction of new road or widen the existing ones is not possible in towns where there is no space available. We have to think differently,” he said.
 
