GURUGRAM: The former deputy mayor of Gurgaon has been absolved of the rape charges in a two-year-old case apparently for the want of evidence.

 Additional sessions judge  , in her order dated December 22, the certified copy of which was released on Saturday, acquitted  , giving him the benefit of doubt as “the complainant was unable to produce convincing proof to support her allegations”.
 
 An FIR was filed against Kataria on October 24, 2015, after a 36-year-old single mother of two alleged that the then deputy mayor had raped her repeatedly on the false promises of marriage and getting her a job at MCG.
 
 In her complaint, the Ashok Vihar resident said Kataria had befriended her sometime in 2013 and subsequently gained her confidence, prompting her to move in with him.
 
  She alleged that Kataria had been exploiting her since June 2015 and when she asked him to fulfil his promises, he threatened her with dire consequences. Based on her complaint, police booked Kataria under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. However, on December 1 the same year, the woman filed an affidavit in the district court, backtracking on her earlier allegations.
 
 In January 2016, Kataria was booked for the second time for allegedly raping the woman again. In her second complaint, the woman alleged that Kataria visited her house (after the affidavit was filed) and sexually assaulted her again.
 
 She also alleged that though she had approached the women police station on December 11, 2015, the cops there refused to file a complaint. The case was finally registered after her lawyer Pradeep Kumar sent a legal notice to the deputy commissioner of police for contempt of the Supreme Court’s directions.
 
 Acquitting Kataria, the court, in its order, observed that since nothing had been shown to prove that he was legally available to have performed a marriage with the victim or he actually made any promise of marriage with the victim only to allure her without any seriousness attached to it, he was held not to be legally under any offensive provision of law. “Giving him the benefit of doubt, accused Parminder Kataria is hereby acquitted of the charges levied against him,” the court order stated. Kataria welcomed the court order and added, “I had full faith in the judiciary… I was confident that truth would prevail. Finally, I got justice.”
 
 
