CHENNAI: The hue and cry in   over the terminology,   Management Board, is not without reason. The Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal in its final award, gazetted by the Centre in 2013, recommended CMB to supervise the operation of reservoirs and regulate water releases with the assistance of Cauvery Water Regulation Committee. In this case, the central body will take over operation of the Cauvery reservoirs from Karnataka and will be bound by the tribunal order to release the stipulated quantity of water every month.

  
  
 
 But in its February 16 Cauvery verdict, the   directed the Centre to formulate a ‘scheme’ as per the Inter-State Water Disputes Act, 1956. Under Section 6(2) of the Act, the Union government must frame a scheme for establishing an “authority” for the implementation of the tribunal award.
 
 Amid reports of the Centre planning to move a clarification petition before the Supreme Court on the Cauvery verdict, TN government sources said the state would file a contempt plea, if it failed to comply with the SC order.
 
 Given the recent statements of water resources ministry officials and   leaders denying any mention of Cauvery Management Board in the SC order, the parties and farmers’ associations suspect that the   government will tread carefully, with the court’s six-week deadline getting closer, and tilt towards Karnataka, where assembly elections are due soon, and set up a panel diluting the recommendations of the tribunal.
 
 “Whatever be the nomenclature of the mechanism, the set-up must regulate release of water, oversee the monthly scheduled releases, ensure that states don’t construct reservoirs or check dams across the river and strictly follow the extent of irrigation prescribed by the tribunal,” said a legal expert, seeking anonymity. “Our concern is that the order should be implemented. Let it be board or committee. If it is anything less than that, then TN will feel cheated, and it will have to go back to SC,” he said.
 
 ‘Scheme’ is a word used in the Inter-State Water Disputes Act, while ‘board’ or ‘authority’ is used in the final award of the tribunal.
 
 Tamil Nadu Farmers Organisations’ coordination committee president P R Pandian accused the Centre of conspiring to “block” the court order by not setting up the board, which would be vested with authority.
 
 “With an eye on election in Karnataka, the BJP government is going against the aspirations of the people of Tamil Nadu,” the leader said, leading a hunger strike in the national capital from Monday. During DMK’s regional meet in Erode, DMK working president M K Stalin said his party would not relent until the board was set up, and warned of a “massive agitation” if nothing fructified.
 
 Meanwhile, a high level team led by PWD secretary S K Prabhakar will be in Delhi on Tuesday to discus the future course of action with legal experts, give that Union cabinet is expected to meet on Wednesday and decide on Cauvery dispute.
 
