 actress   did not expect to be single once again and she is "sad and disappointed" as her marriage with   did not work out.

  
  
  According to a source close to Aniston, the Friends star believes in love ultimately, she may not date anyone again.
 
 According to a report, "As for her future, she isn't a fan of dating and she never was. She always found dating awkward and unpleasant. She hates all the media attention that she knows she will get now. But, she is a big believer in falling in love and spending her life with a partner that loves sharing hers," a source said.
 
  Sources close to the pair detail how Aniston and Theroux's clashing lifestyles drove them apart and how their powerful chemistry first drew them together.
 
  Aniston, who preferred living in Los Angeles (L.A.) tried adopting Theroux's   based luxurious lifestyle but it made her miserable. With such differences, it became totally exhausting and frustrating for the pair.
 
  "For many months they tried to make it work. They even had therapy. And while it seemed Justin gave up many months ago, Aniston only very recently started telling friends that they (relationship) were over," the source continued.
 
  The 49-year-old actress is "doing good" after her split with Theroux.
 
  "She has an amazing life that she loves and is very grateful for. Jen would be the first one to say that she is a lucky girl," the source added.
 
  Last Thursday, the pair announced their separation, due to "differences".
 
  Aniston also reportedly issued a statement where she denied using  , her ex-husband, as a shoulder to lean on, following her split with Theroux.
 
  Also, there are rumours that there was no evidence that Aniston and Theroux were even legally married.
 
  Aniston turned 49 years last week and Theroux was noticeably absent from the   celebration.
 
  Aniston and Theroux began dating in May 2011 and became engaged in August 2012.
 
  They married three years later, on August 5, 2015, at their home in   in L.A.
 
  
  
 
