VIJAYAWADA: TDP president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Nara   on Friday formally severed his party’s four-year alliance with BJP, setting the tone for new political alignments both at the Centre and the state.

 The day in Parliament was witness to competitive politics between YSR Congress and Telugu Desam Party over the Centre’s refusal to grant special category status to Andhra Pradesh with both parties moving a no-confidence motion in the Lok Sabha, leaving most opposition parties with little choice but to support the move in keeping with their anti-BJP stance.
 
 In Vijayawada, Naidu held a video conference with his 16 Lok Sabha MPs between 8.30-9 am, wherein he told them the TDP is ending its alliance with BJP and directed the lower house party members to table a noconfidence motion against the   government. Accordingly, TDP MP Thota Narasimham submitted the notice of no-confidence motion to Lok Sabha secretary general Snehlata Shrivastava around 9.30 am.
 
 The Lok Sabha Speaker will take up the notice on Monday when she will ask for at least 50 MPs to stand in support of the motion. It is, however, unclear whether AIADMK and TRS will relent in raising their statespecific issues to allow a proper consideration of the notice for a no-trust motion as required by the rules of procedure.
 
 In the evening, Naidu formally announced dissolution of the alliance in the AP legislative council. Stating that injustice has been done to his state by BJP and the NDA government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Naidu said: “Many promises were made by the PM during the election campaign. However, four years later, many issues promised in the AP Reorganization Act 2014 are still pending. None of the assurances given on the floor of the Rajya Sabha, including granting of a special category status has been implemented. Hence, we had to take the tough decision of snapping our ties with the BJP. We did it for the sake of the state.”
 
 Though the results of such a contest are foregone given BJP commands a majority by itself, the stage is set for political manoeuvring with TDP ending its association with NDA and a sulking Shiv Sena muttering about “absenting” itself though it is a part of the central and Maharashtra governments.
 
 As of now, among the bigger regional parties, AIADMK and BJD have not formalised their stand. Though they are critical of the Centre in the course of a debate, internal consultations are on whether to vote against the Centre. According to TDP sources, Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee and Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh telephoned the AP CM and welcomed him to be part of a broad an- ti-BJP coalition.
 
 
 
 
 With both the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) trying to table a no-confidence motion against the Narendra Modi government on Friday and seeking to mobilise support in favour of the motion from other political parties from across the country, the ruling   (TRS) has decided to adopt a ‘wait and watch’ policy on the developments. The party has 14 Lok Sabha MPs. P7
 
 
 
 
 In his address to the council, the AP CM also took potshots at YSR Congress chief   and Jana Sena leader Pawan Kalyan. Naidu said: “The YSR Congress Party’s no-confidence (in the Modi government) is only for public consumption, but deep inside it has confidence in PM Narendra Modi . Therefore, we decided to table the no-trust motion ourselves.” Charging YSR Congress with being hand-in-glove with BJP, the AP CM said its MP Vijaysai Reddy is seen frequently at the PMO and wondered how he gets an appointment with the PM so easily.
 
 Traning his guns on Pawan Kalyan, Naidu said why is he not criticising NDA, despite a Joint Fact Finding Committee (JFFC) constituted by him establishing that AP has dues of Rs 75,000 crore from the Centre. “For four years, he kept quiet and now he is attacking me without questioning the Centre. BJP is behind the move, a re-run of what’s happening in TN.”
 
 The TDP chief read out a tweet by BJP Gujarat vicepresident PVS Sharma in which the latter said, Pawan Kalyan will fill the void in AP politics. “In a series of tweets, Sharma congratulated Pawan for exposing corruption of Naidu and his son Lokesh. My doubts that BJP is instigating Pawan Kalyan have proved true,” said Naidu.
 
 Amidst the unity moves in opposition ranks, there are concerns that a faceoff with BJP should not end up helping the ruling party, given its campaign style and polarising tone.
 
 However, a cross section of the opposition believes that the very idea that a no-confidence is being moved against the Modi government is a boost to the anti-BJP camp in the countdown to the 2019 polls. Leaders argued that BJP’s USP under Modi has been its aura built on its massive numbers in Parliament and its victories across states over the last four years. Also, Modi has built a popular perception of a strong government with a strong leader. The perception would get a hit with a no-confidence motion, they claimed.
 
