Chennai: SaaS startup Chargebee has secured $18 million in a series C round led by New York-based Insight Venture Partners. The round saw participation from existing investors, Accel Partners and Tiger Global Management. With this round, Chargebee has raised a total of $24.7 Million. This capital will be used for increased investment in product R&D, sales, marketing, and growth to expand aggressively into newer markets and segments. Chargebee offers a payment gateway agnostic subscription billing solution, complementing gateways like Stripe, Braintree, PayPal, Adyen and others. Chargebee powers recurring revenue engines of both B2B and B2C services across various industry verticals like SaaS, Digital Media, eCommerce, and IoT. Founded in 2011, Chargebee has scaled to support 7000+ customers in 53 countries. The company has grown 4X since last year. For Insight Venture Partners, this marks their first investment in India. Founded in 1995,they have raised over $18 billion and invested in over 300 companies worldwide. Harley Miller, vice president at Insight Venture Partners, will be joining the board. Harley said, “Chargebee delivers a broader and deeper subscription billing management solution built for both non-technical business users as well as developers. As a firm, we are long on recurring revenue businesses. Chargebee is poised to capitalize on this trend, as its solution is both robust and easy to use for SMB and enterprise clients alike.” Chargebee is rivalled by Zuora (which recently file for an IPO), Recurly and Chargify.  As more companies take to the subscription model, the market for players like Chargebee is expanding. “We see a strong trend in subscription businesses across the globe. As these players scale, they need to focus on building sustainable businesses and have a reliable billing system. There will be next gen businesses that will start with the subscription model and large businesses that have use this model one sliver of their business. Chargebee offers scalable model for merchants to have the flexibility of building sustainable businesses and managing billing which is a mission critical area. With Insight’s support, this investment will be channelised towards furthering our goal to democratise billing and subscription management, and empower teams to create customer-first subscription experiences, without the developer dependencies that exist in most systems today,” said Krish Subramanian, co-founder & CEO, Chargebee.