Tushar never felt the need to reduce weight as people had been telling him that he looked good. But this was only until he moved to Australia, became an actor and saw himself on silver screen. He realized that he looked much fatter than he thought he did. Though he acted very well, his weight bothered him and he decided to work on the criticism. To bag more movies and look fitter, he reduced from 118 kgs to 88 Kgs in 11 months. Here’s what he has to say about his  .

 
  Tushar Kumar
 
 
  Banker, Actor, Model
 
 
  29
 
 
  118 kilos
 
 
  30 kilos
 
 
  11 months
 
 
  Being overweight never bothered me because I was fit. People had been telling me that it would be good if I lose some weight but I never took it so seriously. I am a Melbourne-based actor and model and one of my movies released in a local theatre. I was shocked to see myself on the silver screen and decided to look slimmer in my next movie. The audience appreciated my acting but my competitors had one point to comment on - my weight. My director asked me to lose 5 kilos so that he could cast me in his next movie which was opposite Mrs Australia Global. I lost 15 kilos in 2 months to bag that offer.
 
  
  
 
 
  Green tea 1 cup, crunchy oats with skimmed milk or Greek yogurt
 
 
  1 chapati with vegetable/chicken curry 
 
 
  Roasted chicken with veggies or crunchy oats with skimmed milk
 
 
  (What you eat on your cheat days): Sweets, chocolates, cakes and ice creams but in moderation
 
 
  I go to gym every day at 5:30 am. I jog on treadmill and then do weight lifting to tone my body. Then, I indulge in exercises with dumbbells, barbells, floor exercises and medicine ball. I make sure to add variation every day so that my body doesn't get used to the same exercises.
 
 
  I eat everything in limited quantity.
 
 
 
 
  It's an open secret. Only exercise or only diet is not sufficient for weight loss. It is more about a healthy lifestyle which is a combination of diet and exercise. It is true that abs are made in the kitchen and not in gym. Stay hydrated, be active and you will be happy and confident.
 
 
  Once you start seeing results, you get self-motivated. I have included this in my everyday routine, just like any other activity.
 
 
  By being conscious of what I am eating or drinking every day. I am clear that my body is like a gift which I don’t want to spoil. I don’t drink or smoke. I weigh myself every day after gym.
 
 
 I had limited options with clothes and couldn't experiment with my looks as I lacked confidence due to my weight. There was always a voice in my mind making me realize that I am overweight and I need to do something about it.
 
 
  I have achieved what I aimed for. So, even after 10 years, I am planning to stick to the same lifestyle which balances food and exercise.
 
 
  I used to be lazy. I walked 10,000 steps a day and gradually increased to 50,000 steps. I had got bruises and sprained my legs because of this but visualizing the result kept me going. Slowly my body got used to it and I have reduced it to 20,000 steps a day after achieving my desired result.
 
 I drink 4-5 litres of water every day and drink mostly black tea or coffee without milk and sugar as it is a low-calorie option. Instead of cold drink, I take sparkling water. And instead of chocolates, I go for sugar-free mints. I sleep well and exercise every day. My best friends are my legs, weighing machine and pedometer.
 
 
  When I saw myself first time on the silver screen and clearly felt that I was looking fat. My well-wishers advised me to lose weight if I wanted to continue being in the acting field. And that's when I decided to start my   journey.
 
 
  Weight loss is a lifelong journey and not a destination. It's about being responsible and taking ownership. Take it personally and it helps in the improvement of other aspects like self-esteem and self-confidence. Indirectly you become a source of inspiration for other people and it's a great feeling to help others too. So it's a win-win situation.
 
  
 
 
 
