NAGPUR: The Nagpur University (NU) has uploaded over one lakh degrees that were conferred during the 104th convocation as well as those for the 105th on the National Academic Depository (NAD), run by   (UGC) in collaboration with   (NSDL) and   (CDSL). But, none would be accessible to students unless they register on NAD using their Aadhaar number. Recently, while extending the deadline for Aadhaar seeding indefinitely, the Supreme Court had ruled that the unique identity number was not necessary except for availing government subsidies.

 
 The NU had conferred 57,259 degrees during the previous convocation held on December 3 last year while over 55,000 degrees are likely to be awarded on Saturday. TOI learnt that no student from these two batches would be able to access the digital degree unless they register themselves using Aadhaar.
 
 On October 29, 2017, vice-chancellor SP Kane had told TOI that “students would be able to access their degrees right from next day of convocation on their mobiles and laptops”. Kane had also mentioned that the students would be provided ID and password.
 
 When this correspondent logged on to the NAD’s website, it was found that Aadhaar was a compulsory requirement. In between these two convocation period, it looks the NU and the VC too are unaware about the actual process to be followed.
 
 On Monday, Kane didn’t answer to TOI’s calls.
 
 In fact, the NU failed to inform students that they need to register their Aadhaar number on the NAD website.
 
 TOI randomly called up a popular city college to know how many of their students had registered and accessed the digital degree. The college clerk said even they unaware if degrees were being made available online. “So far, we haven’t received any communication from the university on online degrees. Nothing in this regard is available on its website too,” the clerk said.
 
 Exam section officials said they had mailed the circular to all colleges on their respective mail ids. Asked why the circular was not uploaded on NU website, the officials said it was the duty of the colleges to inform their students.
 
 Besides, another issue that may hinder students from accessing their degrees online is that the OTP would be sent on the number they had given for Aadhaar registration. The exam section officials said option to register on NAD without Aadhaar is available but they didn't know the process.
 
 Going by the NAD website, the registration process without Aadhaar is cumbersome since students would need to visit their university/college to complete the registration.
 
 On SC ruling, exam officials said the NAD is governed by ministry of human resources development and there was not much they can do about.
 
 Not just NU but Aadhaar condition has been made mandatory for all schools, colleges and universities across the country enrolled with the NAD.
 
 Digital degrees just like provisional certs
 
 Nagpur: There appears to be confusion within the university itself regarding digital degrees even after uploading over 1 lakh degrees online in the last four months.
 
 On October 29, 2017, vice-chancellor SP Kane had said that “students can even take printouts (of digital degrees) and submit it with respective universities, here or abroad, for pursuing further education”.
 
 Ahead of the 105th convocation, the exam section officials clarified that a copy of the digital degree can’t be construed as original degree and it has been made available simply for verification by employers or education institutes where students enrol after leaving NU. They added that students would have to collect the hard copy of their certificates/ degrees from their colleges.
 
 As per NAD website, the purpose of digital records is for anytime access, retrieval and validation of such academic awards.
 
 
