As the expansion plan is ready to takeoff soon, director of the   said that the   (AAI) was ready to invest Rs 1,500 crore to develop the infrastructure of the airport if the land acquisition was completed. 

 AAI will start the work immediately and the terminal building will be constructed on the southern side near L&T Bypass Road. Flyers can easily reach the airport from Neelambur as well. 
 
 “If the land is handed over to us, we would start the work immediately and the AAI plans to construct a big terminal building on the southern side. People from L&T Bypass and Neelambur can easily reach the new terminal and the AAI would invest at least Rs 1,000 crore for the terminal building alone. We also plan to construct 20 aero bridges and more than 20 parking bays. It will become one of the biggest airports,” said Mahalingam.
 
 According to sources, the AAI also plans to lay a 120 feet road for a stretch of 1.5 km to reach the new terminal from Avinashi Road near Hotel Le Meridian. 
 
 Former president of   village panchayat N Devarajan, who has been fighting against the state government for more than a decade, told TOI that the state government had planned to demolish more than 600 houses at Chinniyampalayam and surrounding areas in the name of airport expansion. 
 
 “Now the state government has fixed a rate of Rs 1,500 per square feet for residential areas. It has to be increased to Rs 3,000 per sq ft. Similarly, the state government has to increase the compensation rate of Rs 1,200 per sq ft for agricultural land from Rs 900. The government has to allot Rs 4,000 crore for land acquisition for the airport expansion. Then only, the people who are going to lose their houses and agricultural lands can lead a decent life. Otherwise, they cannot even buy a house in Coimbatore,” said Devarajan.
 
 He also accused the state government of not allowing land registration in the area for the last 15 years. Hence, the land guideline value and market value are remaining the same. One cent of land has touched Rs 12-13 lakh at PLS Nagar and   in Chinniyampalayam. So, the government should provide adequate compensation to land owners.
 
 
