NEW DELHI: Almost a decade after it was conceived, Delhi Police’s ambitious “intelligent traffic management system” (ITMS) — that proposes to use artificial intelligence to manage traffic and an array of sensors to detect violators — is finally expected to become a reality with the home ministry giving approval for appointment of an international consultant for the job. 

 Following the go-ahead,   has begun talks with several international firms and the process of appointment is likely to wind up by May, sources said, adding that the project will be implemented in three phases, with the first most likely to be completed by 2019.
 
  
  
 
 The new ITMS plan proposes a comprehensive traffic management system that involves setting up of traffic detecting sensors, CCTV cameras, automatic number plate recognition camera (ANPR) systems, speed violation detection at important crossings and stretches, signalised pedestrian crossings and stopline violation detection systems.
 
 In US and Canada, sensors at every 100m or so
 
 There will be lane monitoring systems to facilitate 24x7 scanning of traffic volumes apart from signal cycle phases at all strategic junctions, leading to a modern adaptive traffic control system. The consultant will prepare a detailed project report (DPR) and help police in planning and execution. 
 
 The components of the project will also be installed in batches. 
 
 Asked for a comment, Delhi Police chief spokesperson, special commissioner Dependra Pathak, said, “The traffic police is working on use of technology, particularly artificial intelligence and the mathematical models, to make real time dynamic decisions on traffic flows and for better public service delivery system.” 
 
 The system would be backed by a robust communication backbone with state of the art IT support, officials said. Traffic data will be stored in elastic computing models or cloud based systems that will enable dynamic usage. All ITMS systems will be on a single communication network using the latest technology, such as 4G and fibre optic networks. 
 
 The proposal has remained on paper for almost a decade. Though the traffic police have come up with plans to install independent systems, which can be integrated into the final system later, the overall implementation of the project has been stuck in red tape. 
 
 The traffic officials have cited fund crunch and lack of trained manpower as hurdles in the way of the project. Most of the money allocated to traffic goes in maintenance of traffic signals and other infrastructure. In other countries, smart city road projects include measures to control, monitor and ensure smooth traffic flows. 
 
 Countries such as the US and Canada have sensors installed every few hundred metres to monitor traffic. An electronic system monitor then sets the most suitable speed limit and accordingly adjusts signages. The operators also have access to hundreds of CCTV cameras placed along the route mainly to control speeds. 
 
 Congestion is reduced by ramp metering devices where traffic signals are used strategically on slip roads so that it temporarily stores traffic. The pile-up is then released on the main road one vehicle at a time.
 
