KOCHI: The decision of the   to hold the Class XII economics examination again has not gone well with parents, who say they have lost all confidence in the board. “The reason why we enrolled our students in a standardized national board is because we thought it was dependable. But they have shattered every plan we had,” said Ramachandran PB, whose son will have to write the economics exam again on April 25.

 
 He said that the family had plans for a vacation for which visas are being processed and his son had enrolled for coaching to assist higher education, all of which must be put on hold now. “There have been no reports regarding question paper leaks in Kerala so it is really confusing why the students here have to go through this kind of the pressure,” said Ramachandran, adding that his son was expecting an A grade in economics exam. Several students who applied for admission to various colleges are also in a tough spot because of the rescheduling. “We had scheduled appointments with college officials in Bengaluru in April and had already booked the tickets. We had to cancel them,” said Vimina S, mother of a Class XII student.
 
 She said the children were planning to celebrate   with their grandparents but now they cannot travel to the hometown because they need to prepare for the exam again. Father   M, principal of the   in Kochi said one of his students has already reached the   to spend time with his parents. “They have to book an expensive flight ticket to appear for the examination," he said.
 
 One of his biggest concern is that some students might have lost their hall tickets. "We had told them to keep it safe and hopefully they did," said Anthony.
 
 The tenth graders here have welcomed the CBSE decision not to order a re-test for the Class X mathematics examination. “Our celebration had to be kept in hold for two days. But it was great a relief for my son. I feel sad that students in Delhi and Haryana have to undertake this kind of pressure,” said  , a mother of a Class X student.
 
