Alwar: The tragic death of   ST-11 at the Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR) has exposed major chinks in the monitoring of big cats. Five tigers are still roaming without radio collars in reserve even as sustained patrolling by dedicated forest guards remain a fry cry.

 Sources told TOI that ST-7, ST-8, ST-12, ST-14 and ST-15 don’t have a radio collar on them whereas the radio collar on ST-2 and ST-5 have become defunct. “Only ST-3, ST-4, ST-6, ST-10 and ST-13 have functional collars,” official told TOI. Tigress ST-9’s radio collar was lost some time back and is yet to be replaced.
 
 In the absence of proper electronic surveillance, forest department has to rely on the age-old method of tracking tigers with the help of their pugmarks.
 
 The problem gets compounded with the lack of sustained armed patrolling even in area where activities of poachers have been reported. Moreover, forest guards at the STR still lack basic firearms and have to rely on batons to take on poachers and villagers.
 
 In January 2017, when poachers reportedly trespassed into STR limits, forest guards struggled for a strong cordon. Since then, the forest department has been taking help of the Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) to counter poaching threat but even the RAC works at whims.
 
 “There is no dedicated staff, leave apart the Special Tiger Protection Force (STF) as in some states, to carry out combing operations, avert poaching bid and chase poachers through labyrinth of thick jungle,” an official told TOI. 
 
 The sorry state of tiger monitoring in STR, whose tiger populace was wiped out in 2005, has failed wake the state government from its slumber
 
 Officials said that currently, there is one tracking party for each tiger which transmits reports of pug mark sighting to the control room. “Permission has been granted for eight radio collars. A radio collars remains operational only for three years after which it has to be replaced. We are relying on other methods like tracking pug marks and night patrolling,” an official told TOI.
 
 
