In the latest episode of  , Jethalal asks   where are they going to which   tells everyone that they are going to see the semi-final match of night cricket tournament.   tells them to stay in their in limit but Dr. Hathi interrupts him and asks him to not stop children from doing fun at least during the vacations. Taarak, Popatlal, Jethalal, Iyer start remembering the time when they had vacations and cherish those moments. 

 Taarak tells everyone that they should not stop Tapu sena from enjoying their moments. Later Bhide asks Tapu sena that why are they going so late to watch the match and Tapu informs them that there is a semi-final match which will start late. Bhide feels suspicious about Tapu and asks them whether they are really going to watch the match. 
 
 Tapu then invites everyone to accompany them and watch the match. But Roshan, Taarak, and Jethalal refuse and say that Sunday is a day for rest and they won't be able to watch the match.
 
 In another scene, Bhide decides to keep an eye on his scooter Sakharam and spend the entire night in the balcony. Meanwhile, Tapu, Golu and   desperately wait for Bhide to sleep so that they can take out Sakharam. Later, Bhide asks   to make tea as he needs it to stay awake the entire night and has to catch the culprit who takes his scooter out of the society late at night. Madhavi tells Bhide that she has a surprise for him and informs him that she has brought a special oil for him that will relax his mind. 
 
 But Bhide denies and tells her that he does not have time for the massage and needs to keep a watch on Sakharam. Madhavi creates drama and Bhide agrees for the massage and as Madhavi applies oil on Bhide's head he quickly goes to sleep. Madhavi thanks Tapu sena for the oil. On the other hand, Tapu sena makes a call to Bhide and Madhavi picks up the phone and informs them that Bhide is sleeping.
 
 Tapu then calls Baga and inform him about Bhide. Tapu sena then reaches society and manage to Sakharam out of the society. Goli tells Tapu that they should capture the golden memories and click pictures with Sakharam. 
 
 
