HYDERABAD: Terming the collective silence of society as the main causes behind the failure to protect women and children from the clutches of trafficking, experts — judges, bureaucrats, and police officers — on Saturday said that abolishing the demand for sexual slavery is the best way to combat human trafficking.

 Speaking on Day 1of a twoday South Asia Regional Conference on Preventing Human Trafficking in the city, experts stressed the need to bring about behavioural change, especially among young men, as an important step towards dealing with the crisis.
 
  
 “Sadly, human trafficking is not a new issue, either here or in the  . No government, NGO, volunteer, police officer, judge has succeeded in fighting this age-old problem. All the stakeholders must combine their energy, knowledge and resources to fight trafficking, punish traffickers and help the victims of trafficking...Human trafficking is an assault on basic dignity and freedom of a human being,” said Katherine B Hadda, Consul General,  .
 
 The conference, jointly organised by the US Consulate General Hyderabad and Prajwala, an NGO, also showcased how Swaraksha, a first-of-itskind campaign, organised in 2016, by the consulate and the NGO was able to report over 112 suspected cases of trafficking.
 
 “Swaraksha is a survivorled community awakening caravan, which travelled for 165 days, covering 53 districts in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and Odisha,” said   of Prajwala.
 
 ‘“Trafficking is a humanmade mistake and that all of us bear the guilt of our collective silence on the issue” she added.
 
 Over 150 delegates, including senior officers from the Ministry of Overseas Affairs, Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Women & Child, from 26 Indian states and four South   countries (Thailand, Mynammar, Nepal, and, Bangladesh) took part in the conference.
 
 Experts panellists shared their successful models used for fighting trafficking, so that delegates present can drawn from those approaches and use the appropriate ones to fight trafficking.
 
 
