LUCKNOW: About an hour after counting of votes began at  ,   supporters started gathering at the party office in Hazratganj. The party’s victory on eight seats was clear from the beginning, but it was the win on the ninth seat that worked as the icing on the cake.

 
 By 9.30pm, BJP workers had started dancing to the beats of the dhol, exchanging garlands and bursting crackers as they shouted “Bharat Mata ki Jai”. Around 9.35pm, women and child development minister Rita Bahuguna Joshi arrived at the party office and greeted the workers. Within 10 minutes, state BJP president Mahendra Nath Pandey also arrived. While there were indications that chief minster Yogi Adityanath would also be arriving at the office, a press conference at the Vidhan Sabha across the road saw all senior party members leave the office by 10.15pm.
 
 
 
 
 Even though it was presumed that celebrations at the party office would wind down after the ministers and state party president left, the entire gamut of senior party members, including the CM, Pandey, both deputy CMs, railway minister Piyush Goyal and others returned to the party office around 11.45pm. Accompanied by the winning candidates, with the exception of Union finance minister   who was in Delhi, the leadership gathered in the central hall inside the party office where they distributed sweets.
 
 
 “There were several party workers waiting for the CM at the main gate. As soon as everyone arrived, the supporters burst crackers and threw flower petals on the successful candidates. Everyone then went inside where the victors were garlanded and fed with sweets. Meanwhile, other party workers celebrated outside the compound. They danced for more than an hour,” said a senior party member.
 
 
 On the contrary, an eerie silence prevailed at BSP office and outside party chief Mayawati’s residence after the loss of party candidate Bhim Rao Ambedkar.
 
 
 Similar scene prevailed at the   office on Vikramaditya Marg despite its candidate Jaya Bachchan getting re-elected to   for the fourth time.
 
 
 “Jashn tabhi manega jab dono taraf khushi hogi (celebrations will be held only when both SP and BSP will win),” said an SP worker, in reference to the bonhomie between the two parties.
 
 
 “Hamare adhyaksha ne apni baat nibhayi par kismat ne BJP ka sath diya (Our president kept his words but luck favoured BJP this time),” said SP worker Taufeeq.
 
