NEW DELHI: “The Constitution gives every individual a freedom of speech and expression. In a democratic set-up,   criticism of   authorities is no defamation,” a Delhi   said on Thursday while discharging chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and BJP parliamentarian Kirti Azad in a   case filed by Delhi and District Cricket Association ( ) and cricketer-turned-politician Chetan Chauhan. 

 Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Samar Vishal said every individual has the right to bring out the deficiencies in the functioning of these bodies. Kejriwal tried to bring out certain irregularities in the functioning of DDCA by citing a message without naming anyone, he added. “DDCA, although is a company, but it cannot be denied that it serves a public purpose i.e. the promotion of the sport of cricket in Delhi,” the judge pointed out. 
 
 The two leaders were accused of allegedly making defamatory statements by alleging financial irregularities and major wrong doings in the functioning of DDCA in 2015. It was alleged that in an interview to a TV channel, Kejriwal had made scandalous remarks against DDCA, which were “false, shocking, baseless, slanderous, disparaging and has caused irreparable injury” to the complainants’ reputation. It was also alleged that Azad had endorsed the remarks.
 
 The court said Kejriwal did not state that the message was sent by DDCA. According to the court, Kejriwal simply said that ‘a message has come’. “Therefore, it seems that DDCA is presuming that the message was sent by any of its official, which is not suggested nor stated by accused no. 1 (Kejriwal).”
 
 Vishal also pointed out that “the part of the interview with which the complainants are aggrieved and (which is) reproduced in the complaint does not talk of DDCA as whole. It talks of some message from an individual, that too is not clear whether from DDCA or some outsider”.
 
 The court further explained that an imputation does not harm a person’s reputation unless it, directly or indirectly, in the estimation of others, lowers the person’s moral or intellectual character. Therefore, “estimation of others” is an important ingredient, it said. In the present case, however, the court found that DDCA, as a body, was alleging defamation, and it was necessary for someone outside DDCA to come forward and say the body has been defamed. “Interestingly, no such person has been examined.” 
 
 Rejecting Chauhan’s claim that he was personally defamed, the court said it was not the true position as he had no locus to carry on with the complaint as he had been relieved of his position as the vice-president of DDCA. 
 
 The court also noted that DDCA did not oppose the discharge plea of the two politicians. “This discussion leads to the only inference that there is no offence which can be attributed to the accused persons. Accordingly, both Arvind Kejriwal and Kirti Azad are discharged,” the court ordered.
 
 
