NAGPUR: Taking note of TOI report on fraud played by Board of Examinations (BoE) 12 years ago, Nagpur University (NU) vice chancellor SP Kane has asked director of   (BoEE) Neeraj Khaty to submit a report along with all the important documents related to the 2006 meeting within three days.

 In his letter dated April 9 to Khaty, the   attached a copy of the TOI report beside referring to all the details mentioned therein.
 
  
 Speaking to TOI, the VC said, “I have asked the director to put up all the relevant details pertaining the case before me by Wednesday. We are going to take serious action in the case. We would investigate if Sunil Mishra attempted to regularize his bogus mark sheets and if he cheated the university.”
 
 However, Kane was non-committal on the action to be taken and fixing responsibility on the former VC SN Pathan, ex-ProVC Gaurishanker Parasher, ex-registrar Subhash Belsare, ex-CoE ML Nagargoje and eight BoE members who passed the resolution to accept Sunil Mishra’s bogus LLB marklists in 2006.
 
 Senior academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra, current senate member  , ex-dean of science faculty Ashok Gomashe, DS Kadav, TD Patel, GD Dubey, MM Jumle and AD Deshmukh were the other BoE members.
 
 Ironically, the 12-year-old fraud has come to light days after the current NU administration took the unprecedented decision of withdrawing the diploma in Gandhian Thoughts awarded to Dr Vedprakash in an alleged case of plagiarism committed three decades ago.
 
 A stalwart in NU circles who dominated its affairs for three decades, Dr Vedprakash suffered a huge blow when Kane acted as per the recommendations of Ratnaparkhi report that indicted him. 
 
 In the BoE fraud case too, Kane has shown resolve to open the files and initiate proceedings by calling for records.
 
 Asked what action he would take this time, Kane said “I would ask the director to convene BoEE meeting soon. We will see if the BoE 2006 decision impacted the court decision to make Mishra’s jail term less harsh.”
 
 
