VARANASI: When the   (RITES) will start a fresh study to prepare feasibility report of the proposed   service under   (MRTS), it will also explore the possibility of introducing cable cars in the densely populated areas of Varanasi.

 "The Varanasi Development Authority (VDA) has recently paid Rs 81 lakhs to RITES for preparing the feasibility report of   rail service proposed in the city. While preparing this feasibility, RITES will also explore the possibility of introduction of cable cars for MRTS in densely populated areas with the help of an Austria-based company, which is global leader in ropeway technology," VDA secretary Vishal Singh told TOI on Thursday.
 
 "As per Metro feasibility studies, RITES can also revise the already prepared detailed project report (DPR) of Metro," he added.
 
 Singh said a representative of an Austria-based company has been consulted in view of the success of cable cars in densely populated old cities of Europe and other continents, which match the conditions of Varanasi.
 
 "The feasibility of cable cars in these countries has enabled VDA in concluding that no major ground coverage is needed for developing ropeway in Varanasi, even its stations are developed on elevated platforms in congested areas," he elaborated.
 
 The Austrian company has conveyed to VDA that up to 80 passengers can be accommodated in a cable car and through ropeway technology, it is possible to transport 12,000 persons every hour while the cost of construction is also very low, Singh said.
 
 He added that apart from other benefits like zero pollution, focus is now on this mode of MRTS.
 
 In 2015, then chief minister   had announced the Metro Rail project for Varanasi and Kanpur. As per VDA records, in January 2015 the state government assigned RITES to prepare a feasibility report and DPR of the Metro Rail project for Varanasi.
 
 The state government made VDA the nodal agency for the project while LMRC officials were given coordinating roles. In May 2015, an agreement was signed between VDA and RITES.
 
 RITES finalized its DPR and the state government also gave its approval to it on June 8, 2016. Later, the DPR was forwarded to the ministry of urban development of GoI on August 29, 2016 for its approval. The VDA had already made a payment of almost Rs 3 crore to RITES for preparing the DPR.
 
 In its DPR, RITES has proposed two metro rail corridors in Varanasi. It also proposed the time of completion of project by March 2023 when the project cost would be over Rs 17,702 crore.
 
 The first proposed Metro rail corridor is between Banaras Hindu University and   Limited Tarna. Of 19.35 km corridor 15.50 km metro line would be underground in old city area while elevated 3.84 km metro line is proposed in trans-Varuna. A total of 17 stations, including at Tulsi Manas Mandir, Durga temple, Ratnakar Park, Kashi Vishwanath temple, Beniabagh, Rathyatra, Kashi Vidyapeeth, Cantt railway station, Nadesar, Collectorate, Bhojubir, Gilat Bazar, Sangam Colony, Shivpur, Tarna and BHEL are proposed in this corridor. In corridor-II between Beniabagh and   seven stations including Beniabagh, Kotwali, Machhodari, Kashi Depot, Jalalipura, Panchkoshi, Ashapur, Havelia and Sarnath was proposed.
 
 The fate of the proposed Varanasi Metro rail project has been hanging in balance as while evaluating the DPR, the Central ministry of urban development had raised questions on the commercial viability of the project, especially introduction of this service in old city areas.
 
