JAIPUR: To provide relief to citizens in the poll-bound year, the state government on Wednesday put a hold on its decision to increase   tariff by 10%. 

 The   (PHED) on March 30 issued orders to increase the water traffic from April 1, 2018. However, after facing criticism from the opposition and residents the decision was rolled back within two weeks. 
 
 The order issued by PHED principal secretary,  , dated April 11. It read: “The order dated 30.03.2018 pertaining to water tariff and all other charges on all the categories of consumers effective from April 1, 2018 is hereby kept in abeyance till further orders,” It further said, “ This bears the concurrence of Hon’ble CM.”
 
 The state government, for the second consecutive year, had hiked water tariff by 10%. The government’s move to hold the tariff hike will benefit more than 4.70 lakh users in Jaipur. In 2017, the tariff was increased after 17 years. After this PHED had announced to increase 10% water tariff every year. 
 
 Now, there will be no rise in water tariff on consumers using water supplied from PHED sources up to 8,000 litre per month. After the announcement, consumers were proposed to pay Rs 1.89 per thousand litre instead of the existing rate of Rs 1.76 per thousand litre. 
 
 Along with 10% increase in water and sewerage fee, the PHED had also announced an increase in infrastructure charge, meter service charge and renewal of fee by 50%. As a result, it was expected that 25% in total bill amount would increase. “If the decision was not put on hold, the residents would have received a bill with the increased rate between Rs 110 to Rs 400 from next month,” added a PHED official.
 
 The residents criticised the decision after prices for procuring new water connections was increased for those who fall under below poverty line (BPL) category. The PHED announced an increase of Rs 121 to procure new connections for   applicants .  , a resident of  , said, “We welcome the move that the state government. It is government’s basic duty to provide water at nominal rate to residents. They should not calculate profit and loss in basic requirements.” 
 
 
