CHENNAI: Southern suburbs in the city were hit by power cuts for up to nine hours on Sunday night as the supply of electricity to   substation was snapped after two transmission lines were damaged at the same time. Residents came on to the   and blocked traffic in protest.

 Though the Thillai Ganga Nagar substation has sufficient capacity to take on the power load, especially during summer, the lines bringing power to the substation sagged, cutting power to residents in Thillai Ganga Nagar, Adambakkam and nearby areas. 
 
 However, officials said the substation would soon get a third power source to avert a similar problem in the future. “All other major substations in and around Chennai have an alternative source apart from the regular sources. Thillai Ganga Nagar has only two sources but in the coming months, a third source will also be ready,” a senior   distribution official told TOI
 
 “The two sources of power supply to Thillai Ganga Nagar substation from Guindy and   substations were affected at around the same time at 9pm on Sunday. Power supply was hit to various areas which are dependent on the substation,” the official said. 
 
 It took nearly four hours for the workers to find the place where the transmission line had sagged. “There were two problems due to which power supply was hit. We were able to identify the first problem of the line being cut at a jointing area. But it took more time to identify the problem at the armour rod and slowly we started restoring power from midnight. Our staff worked through the night,” the official said.
 
 In the last few years, Chennai has been facing the problem of distribution and transmission lines sagging during summer. On April 30, 2016, several areas in Chennai went without power for several hours as two transmission lines in south Chennai and north Chennai got cut. During Cyclone Vardah, transmission towers were badly damaged and power supply was hit all over the city for a few days. 
 
 “We have increased the strength of distribution lines across the city by changing the lines. We do not expect any problem this summer,” the official said. 
 
 
