NEW DELHI: New Delhi Municipal Council on Wednesday sealed 24 portions of the luxury hotel  , but the action came under challenge before the   which ordered de-sealing and stayed the notice of the civic body late in the evening.

 Justice Rekha Palli, after a hearing that started around 7.30pm and lasted nearly an hour, asked the civic agency to de-seal the hotel saying that principles of natural justice were violated. The court also said since none of the   lawyers were reachable despite several attempts after court working hours, it was granting interim relief till Thursday to the petitioners till the civic body conveys its stand.
 
 Earlier, NDMC officials said that 24 portions of the property were sealed, including 10 points in the commercial tower, 11 in the hotel block and three in the basement. The sealed areas included restaurants, banquet halls, gymnasium and other common places.
 
 NDMC’s action came following a showcase notice that was served on the hotel in January under Section 247 of NDMC Act, 1994 for illegal constructions carried out without seeking any permission from the council. “The unauthorised construction is required to be sealed till demolition is done,” the notice stated.
 
 However, by mid-day the hotel approached HC accusing NDMC of contempt of court since it had sealed the commercial tower despite giving an undertaking earlier in court that there won’t be any coercive action. In the first hearing of the day, Justice Palli — who was the roster judge — asked NDMC to de-seal the commercial tower, but refused to stay the ongoing   action in other parts of the property for unauthorised construction and misuse in violation of Delhi Master Plan 2021.
 
 Appearing for the hotel, advocate Diljit Singh Ahluwalia also questioned why NDMC, after 32 years, decided to issue a showcause notice on alleged deviations/unauthorised construction and argued that the NDMC Act did not apply to the case at hand.
 
 On its part, the civic agency, through additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain gave a fresh undertaking that within two hours the commercial tower will be de-sealed, but asserted the right to seal other parts of the property where it had found violations.
 
 Later in the evening, the hotel filed a fresh writ challenging the entire sealing action of NDMC and sought an urgent hearing, which was allowed by Acting Chief Justice   who marked it to the roster bench.
 
 “CJ International has brought to the notice of NDMC that apart from their actions constituting contempt of court, the hotel was running at 100% occupancy. Sealing of the restaurants and banquet halls, where marriage functions were booked for tonight, has brought inconvenience to the public at large,” the hotel’s lawyer told HC highlighting the urgency of the situation.
 
 In September 2017, NDMC had carried out sealing drive at the commercial tower, which houses 98 occupants. However, the tower was de-sealed after one of the occupants had filed a writ petition in the high court.
 
 The hotel further claimed that NDMC sealed the commercial block even though the civic body was directed by HC not to take any coercive measures till the pendency of the writ. However, senior NDMC officials claimed that “only those portions were sealed that had nothing to do with the court order.”
 
 
