NEW DELHI: Immediately after the high court gave a breather to the 20 disqualified MLAs, 10 of them set out to the assembly to attend the budget session. Many of these MLAs even spoke on important issues, such as doorstep delivery of ration and water supply. The MLAs were barred from attending House sessions after their disqualification in January. 

 On Friday, they were suddenly the centre of attraction again. While most of them were in high court at the time of the verdict, Janakpuri legislator Rajesh Rishi directly came to the assembly. After news about the court verdict trickled in, he was eager to attend the session, but wasn’t sure about the procedure and, therefore, proceeded to the visitors’ gallery. 
 
 “The Speaker noticed me sitting in the visitors’ gallery. As   order was clear, the Speaker announced that the reinstated MLAs could attend the session. It was a moment of happiness for me,” Rishi told TOI.
 
 Alka Lamba (Chandni Chowk), Jarnail Singh (Tilak Nagar), Manoj Kumar (Kondli) and Rajesh Gupta (Wazirpur) were among the MLAs who attended the session on Friday. “I badly missed the budget session and the company of my fellow MLAs. It is a moment of joy to join them again in this temple of democracy,” said Manoj Kumar. Lamba alleged that their disqualification was an “outcome of a conspiracy hatched by the   led Central government” and “EC became a part of it”. Singh, on the other hand, described HC’s decision as a “slap on the face of EC” and said “it has reduced the stature of the poll panel”. 
 
 Transport minister Kailash Gahlot, who had been under attack from opposition for attending the House despite being disqualified, said: “We felt bad when our MLAs friends were not able to attend the session. Now, that they have been reinstated, it will boost our strength.” 
 
 Some legislators said that with their salaries and perks having been discontinued, they had found it difficult to pay their staff and development work in their constituencies was affected.
 
 
