NEW DELHI: A dash of anti-incumbency, a few strategic regional alliances and a huge outreach effort by parent organisation RSS have helped the   generate a saffron wave in the northeast, a region where it wasn't even a bit player five years ago.
 
 
 
 Results in 
  - for which counting is taking place today - indicate the BJP will fell the mighty Left in Tripura, will pose a serious challenge to the ruling Naga People's Front ( ) thanks to allying with a significant regional player, and cause the   to lose   despite it possibly winning the most number - though perhaps not a majority - of seats there.
 
 In the process, the Congress may lose one more state in which it was in power (Meghalaya), the Left may be left with just one state in which it is in government (Kerala), and regional parties may become kingmakers of the kind they never expected to be.
 
 Also in the process, the BJP, which already rules 19 of 29 states, looks set to extend its saffron blanket to the northeast, having already got Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh in its kitty.
 
 "In a way the entire northeast is now with the BJP. Initially we used to say 'Congress mukt Bharat' now I think we can say 'Vaampanth Mukt Bharat' (Left-free India) also," said union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad about counting trends favouring the BJP.
 
 The BJP is reaping rich rewards for its massive push for infrastructure development - especially rail and road - in the northeast. And its ideological forbear, the RSS, is to be credited for making the people of the northeast aware of this BJP push, with its 'mass contact' initiative. 
 
 
 
 
 In Tripura, where the BJP is emerging as a giant killer, it is leading in 38 of 59 seats where voting took place. The once mighty CPM is ahead in just 20 seats.
 
 Here, the BJP's alliance with the Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT) is proving to be a winning strategy as the tie-up helped outreach among the tribal community that makes up 31 percent of the state's population. 
 
 The Left's lack of coherence on how to deal with large-scale unemployment was a gap the BJP stepped into nicely. It clearly outlined employment opportunities, especially for the tribals, promising special economic zones for bamboo, textiles and food processing. The BJP also promised to set up an autonomous state council which would have access to funds directly from the Centre. 
 
 
 
 
 In Nagaland, the BJP took what seemed like an unusual decision ahead of Assembly polls, deciding to contest in alliance with the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP). This was unusual, because it is a partner in the current government with the Naga People's Front (NPF).
 
 Vote counting trends today might explain the BJP's decision to not contest with the NPF. That's because the BJP-NDPP alliance is ahead in 35 of the 59 assembly seats up for grabs. This is significant, because the NDPP is led by a man called "the tallest leader in Nagaland", three-time former CM Neiphiu Rio. 
 
 The BJP's already had a major breakthrough when Rio won unopposed from the Northern Angamai-II seat. Rio broke away from the ruling NPF to join the fledgling NDPP last month. He was the one who brokered the alliance with the BJP, which the latter it appears was wise to join.
 
 
 
 In Meghalaya, the BJP may end up in power by default, if counting trends hold steady. 
 
 The Congress, which has been in power since 2003, is still ahead, leading in 23 of 59 seats for which polls were held. For a majority, though, it needs 31 seats.
 
 The BJP is trailing way behind, ahead in a mere four seats. But what could get the saffron party as a co-driver in the government, is the fact that a Congress breakaway called the National People's Party (NPP) is coming in a close second, ahead in 15 seats. And the 'Others' category, including the United Democratic Party (UDP), are leading in 17 seats. 
 
 The BJP is looking to forge an alliance with the UDP (and others) and the NPP is open to an alliance with the BJP. If these alliances fall into place and current counting trends hold, this group will get 36 seats, more than enough to form the government.
 
  
 The BJP wants a non-Congress government, as BJP spokesman Nalin Kohli said. The NPP, which formed after breaking away from the Congress, obviously wants a non-Congress government. For the UDP, links with those in power are important it has said. It, too, is open to allying with the BJP.
 
 If counting trends hold steady and all these anti-Congress forces come together, Meghalaya would be yet another state the Congress will lose, and yet another the BJP will gain. 
 
 
 
 
