CHENNAI: As the Supreme Court deadline to the Centre to put in place a 'scheme' to implement the award of the   river water tribunal comes to an end on Friday, the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre, prompted by the law ministry, may file a petition in the SC seeking clarity on the meaning of the word 'scheme', say sources. 

  With   MPs stalling the business in   for the last three days and the state government ready with a plan to file a contempt plea against the Centre - if it fails to set up the panel - government sources said chief minister   has summoned a meeting of senior ministers and bureaucrats on Thursday. "Deadline is still there. The Centre should comply with court order and set up board and committee. We will not settle for anything less," fisheries minister D   told TOI. 
 
 Highly placed sources said the Union water resources ministry was of the view that the ‘scheme’ as envisaged by the court was only to form an agency with an IAS-rank officer at the helm and members from each of the basin states to implement the tribunal’s order. “The ministry sent the cabinet note but it has been returned by the PMO, since the law ministry prefers to seek clarification from the court on the word, scheme, leaving no room for ambiguity,” a source, in the know-how said. The move is also seen as an attempt to buy time from the court since action taken in haste would prove dear to the saffron party in poll-bound Karnataka, where it aspires to come back to power after five years.
 
 In 2016, in one of the TN petitions, the SC directed the Centre to set up Cauvery Management Board, which was conceded to by then attorney general Mukul Rohatgi. Rohatgi made a flipflop three days later and said the court cannot pass orders after the tribunal gave its final award. Cut to 2018. The apex court directed the Centre to frame a “scheme” within six weeks so that the authorities under the scheme can see to it that the order is smoothly made functional and the rights of the states as determined are appositely carried out. The court pointed to Section 6 of the Inter-State Water Disputes Act, 1956, under which, the scheme should be framed to set up an authority to implement the decision/ directions of the tribunal.
 
 
