NEW DELHI: The 
  sponsored by   and TDP gathered momentum with a clutch of opposition parties, including Congress, supporting the   parties in the hope of sharpening pro- and anti-NDA faultlines and testing the ruling alliance’s cohesion.

 
 The competitive politics between YSR Congress and Telugu Desam Party over the Centre’s refusal to grant 
  saw both parties moving a no-confidence motion in the  , leaving most opposition parties with little choice but to support the move in keeping with their anti-BJP stance.
 
 Though the results of such a contest are foregone given BJP commands a majority by itself, the stage is set for political manoeuvring with TDP formally ending its association with   and a sulking Shiv Sena muttering about “absenting” itself though it is a part of the central and Maharashtra governments.
 
 
 
 As of now, among the bigger regional parties,   and BJD have not formalised their stand. Though they are critical of the Centre in the course of a debate, internal consultations are on whether to vote against the Centre.
 
 In the opposition camp, parties like Trinamool are looking to take the lead in attacking BJP while Congress needs to utilise the debate to clearly underline Rahul Gandhi’s leadership role. The no-trust motion is yet to be admitted though as the House was not in order on Friday with AIADMK and TRS MPs in the well.
 
  
  
 
 The Lok Sabha Speaker will take up the notice on Monday when she will ask for at least 50 MPs to stand in support of the motion. It is, however, unclear whether the AIADMK and TRS will relent in raising their state-specific issues to allow a proper consideration of the notice for a no-trust motion as required by the rules of procedure.
 
 The TDP, which withdrew its ministers from the Centre last week, on Friday snapped ties with NDA after AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu bitterly attacked the Modi government over what he called unfulfilled promises to the state. But the trigger for the motion, a highly localised demand for special category status for AP, has enthused a chunk of the opposition, with Congress, Left, Trinamool Congress, AAP and   of AIMIM in support.
 
 The BJP’s defeat in the Gorakhpur and Phulpur Lok Sabha bypolls and the Nirav Modi-PNB scam has also given the opposition some talking points.
 
 While backing the motion would appear a natural reflex of the anti-BJP bloc, the decision will be debated within the parties given that BJP and allies have the numbers to overcome the challenge.
 
