PUNE: The Vatsalya School, Undri, recently hosted an inter-school drawing and patriotic singing competition (group and solo). 200 participants from   (Mohammadwadi), Lexicon International School ( ),   (Hadapsar), Bharati Vidyapeeth English Medium School, among others, participated in the competition. The winners were awarded trophies and medals, while every student got a participation certificate. 

 
 
 
 Vidyashilp Public School recently held the annual cross-country race at Yewalewadi. Around 154 students from the primary and secondary sections took part in it. Participants were shown the route a day in advance.
 
 The course took the runners around the buildings, over the tricky muddy trails and through wooded sections. The race tested students on their consistency, stamina and determination.
 
  
 
 
 City International School (CIS), Pimpri, held its three-day annual concert at the   grounds recently. The theme for primary classes was ‘Rishton ka Utsav’. Grades III-VI depicted the theme ‘Itihaas ke panno se’, while grades VII-X performed on ‘Rangavarsh — A Symphony of Colours’. 
 
 CIS chairman Shreyas Dixit was the chief guest, while other dignitaries from the management, like Preeti Dixit, Ruta Dixit and Abhas Niphadkar, were also in attendance.
 
 Meritorious students from the 2016-17 academic year were felicitated during the prize distribution ceremony, and principal Pallavi Joshi presented the annual report for the current academic year.
 
 In his address, Dixit stressed on the need to teach the new generation our values. 
 
 
 
 
 St Mira’s School recently held its annual function at Nehru Memorial Hall. Varsha Chordia, chairperson, Panchshil Foundation, was the chief guest. Dr Manju Nichani, rector of Sadhu Vaswani Institute of Learning, welcomed the guests.   read out the school report.
 
 A group of students delivered talks — on the lines of Ted Talks — on various ways of learning at school. The event was called ‘Miraites ke soch’. A skit and dance show, titled ‘Yeh unn dino ki baat hai’, compared interpersonal relationships and friendships from today with the yesteryears.
 
 The chief guest applauded the school’s achievements and released the school magazine, ‘Blossoms’. The event ended with prize distribution.
 
 
