CHANDIGARH: Three days after a minor Dalit girl was found murdered in   village of the Jind district, the   police is yet to arrest the accused boy who had allegedly eloped with her on January 9.

 Having failed to make any significant headway, the special investigation team (SIT) on Monday travelled and examined the possible route which could have been taken by assailants for reaching Budha Khera.
 
 Meanwhile, two police parties also examined the area, forest reserves and hatcheries around the village. The teams had also taken sniffer dogs to get a clue into the gruesome incident.
 
 “We are working day and night to track the accused. We have apprehended more persons who were in touch with the boy before he eloped with the victim. Some of his relatives too have gone into hiding,” said Kurukshetra superintendent of police (SP)  .
 
 As the police continue to grope in dark, the opposition has trained guns at chief minister  , who is also the minister in-charge of the home department, over the issue of law and order.
 
 Expressing deep concern over the rising incidents of rape and murder of girls in Haryana, leader of the opposition Abhay Singh Chautala has demanded Khattar’s resignation for his consistent failure in checking the increase in crime against women.
 
 Citing recent cases, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader said, “Such incidents have caused panic among the people,” adding, “It is unfortunate that since Nirbhaya, such cases have become a routine in Haryana and yet the BJP government has not woken to its primary responsibility of maintaining law and order and providing security to its citizens.”
 
 Abhay said, “Any government that fails in providing security to its citizens has no right to remain in power since that is the primary reason for the existence of the state and the government. While the graph of crime has risen during the BJP rule of more than three years, the crime against women has particularly been the cause of concern. It is a sure indicator of the fearlessness of the criminals.”
 
 He further added that while the Khattar government took pride in spending crores for celebrating Gita Jayanti and claims to be spreading the message of Gita for inculcating higher moral values, the moral fiber of the state had weakened under the BJP rule.
 
  legislature party (CLP) leader Kiran Choudhry said, “Now the time has come when the CM should use his special task force (STF) for tracking the criminals involved in crime against women. Even as government has nowhere to hide, it will continue to raise the Beti Bachao Beti Padhao slogan”.
 
 Congress spokesperson and Kaithal MLA Randeep Singh Surjewala termed Haryana as the most unsafe place of the country for girls and women. “The way girls have been brutalized, it clearly shows that the criminals have no fear of the state and the law of the land due to system failure. I would say that entire law and order has totally collapsed,” he alleged.
 
 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in-charge of Haryana, Navin Jaihind, sought immediate sacking of the government while saying that the state had become a haven for criminals, especially those involved in the crime against women.
 
 “The state has seen four crimes against women in the past 24 hours now. It’s a total jungle raj in Haryana. Take example of Faridabad incident where the victim had been telling the cops about her location but police failed to protect her,” said Jaihind.
 
 
