CHANDIGARH: The three-day rose festival is all set to kick-off from Friday, as the preparations are on full swing. All three days - Feb 23 to 25 - will host multiple functions and competitions. Like previous years, chopper ride will be one of the main attractions in the festival. Besides  , musical nights will also take place at Leisure Valley for three days, comprising Bollywood night by  . Dog show by the ITBP sleuths will also take place.

 While addressing the media, city mayor Davesh Moudgil and municipal commissioner Jitender Yadav, on Wednesday, provided detailed information of all the programmes and events for this three days of the festival, which is the part of national cultural calendar of the Government of India.
 
  
 
 Moudgil said the festival will begin from February 23, 2018 and will end on February 25, 2018. He said the Rose Garden is one of biggest rose gardens in Asia, developed in the year of 1967 and spreads over an area of 40 acre. There are 829 varieties of roses, over 1,400 rose beds comprising of 42,000 rose plants in the garden.
 
 “Various competitions will be organised ranging from best garden/roundabout/campus/parks maintained by RWAs on MoU basis, Rose Prince and Rose Princess contests, Brass and Pipe Band competition, on the spot painting competition, rose quiz competition, folk dance competition, photography competition, Antakshari, kite-flying competition, Miss Rose and Mr Rose among others,” he said.
 
 He further said the festival will also showcase a wide array of flowers by way of flower competitions in different categories. Moreover, last year, a new event helicopter joy ride was introduced and seeing huge response from the public, it will be held with same fanfare this year too. 
 
 While giving the details, MC commissioner Jitender Yadav said besides this, cultural evenings will also be organised during the Rose Festival in Rose Garden and also in Leisure Valley during which different renowned artists including Kulwinder Billa on February 23, Gippy Grewal on February 24and Bollywood singer Ankit Tiwari will perform February 25. There will be a day-long cultural performance also by the North Zone Cultural Committee –NZCC- at the main stage of the Rose Garden and evening performances by renowned artists in the Leisure Valley.
 
 
