CHANDIGARH: District consumer disputes redressal forum directed general post office and   to pay Rs 10,000 as compensation for failing to deliver the transcripts twice to   in  . They were also been asked to pay Rs 9, 924, which include the amount paid by the complainant for the purchasing transcripts twice and the delivery charges.

 The complainant Ashutosh Vermani, a resident of Sector 15, in his complaint stated that his son, Ajitesh   is studying in Canada since September 2015. Before leaving for Canada, as per requirements of the University of Windsor, he deposited a fee of Rs 4,400 for the delivery of transcript of degree certificates/marksheets to  , which were sent on April 25, 2015. He further paid a sum of Rs 1,124 to post office for premium service of delivery, but, the same were not delivered.
 
 When the complainant approached them, they kept on shifting the burden to one another. Since the matter was urgent, he again deposited a sum of Rs 4,400 and asked PU to once again send the transcript of degree certificates/marksheets, which were sent on November 24, 2015, but, they again failed to deliver the same.
 
 He again deposited a sum of Rs 4,400 with them and sent the transcript of certificates/mark sheets
 
 on January 12, 2016. Ultimately, on the third occasion, the transcript of the degree certificate/marksheets were received by the university in Canada. He then submitted representations, requesting the post office to refund the deposited amount, but, to no avail. In its reply, the post office authorities admitted that PU got booked WNX article on April 25, 2015 and registered letter on November 24, 2015 and both the articles were delivered to the addressee in time without any delay. It was averred that Vermani was not entitled to any refund as both the articles were duly served on the addressee.
 
 DHL authorities in their reply denied that any shipment was booked by the complainant with it or that any consideration was accepted by it. It has been averred that the complainant has no privities of contract with it.
 
 Forum after hearing both sides stated that it is clear that there is no evidence that the documents in question were delivered to Vermani’s son within the reasonable time period on two occasions.
 
 It was for post office and DHL to ensure the delivery of transcripts in question to the son of the complainant in time which they failed to do. This negligence on the part of post office and DHL certainly forced the complainant to spend three times for the same purpose and of course he (in India) and his son (in a foreign land) had to undergo stress and mental harassment. They were then directed to pay up.
 
