AIRPORT SOUTH

 Modern exterior | The building has a glass facade and tiles of red and dark blue colours. One side of it is made up of grey tiles
 
 Storeys | Ground floor and first floor. The upper floor will be used to reach the second platform
 
 Multi-purpose | A hall will be built in the station building for marriages, conventions etc. It will generate revenue for MahaMetro. People can attend the functions by taking the Metro
 
 Location | Situated on the Wardha Road near north end of Khapri railway overbridge (RoB)
 
 NEW AIRPORT
 
 Buddhist architecture | Part of the architecture is inspired by Sanchi Stupa. The central part has a dome, which has a diameter of 13.5 metre and a height of 8.5 metre. The top of the dome is 40 metres from the station floor. It has a stainless steel frame and polycarbonate body. It will not be affected by rain and is maintenance free. The polycarbonate material will not allow ultra-violet rays to pass through it
 
 Buddhist interior | The interior of the station has a Buddhist look due to a 8-feet high statue of Lord Buddha. The statue is made up of sandstone. It will be shielded by a glass semicircle. People will be able to go near the statue only on Buddha Jayanti. For the rest of the year, it will be out of bounds for citizens
 
 Sandstone exterior | The exterior of the station is fitted with cream-coloured sandstone tiles manufactured by German firm Hunter Douglas. The tiles are hollow from inside and have been made from alluvial soil. They help the interior of the station to remain cool
 
 Underpass | An underpass has been built to allow passengers reach the second platform. It is below the Metro line
 
 Location | It is to the east of Chinchbhuvan and to be reached by using an underbridge below the railway line
 
 KHAPRI
 
 Victorian architecture | The station has been designed in Victorian style. It is also influenced by Tudor architecture having a steeply pitched roof with cross gable detail (triangular upper part of a wall at the end of a ridged roof). It was inspired by Bandra suburban station of Mumbai built in 1920s. The colour of the roof is red and the trusses are white. The red roof is out of aluminium sheets and not tiles
 
 Artistic interior | Murals, sculptures, metal, mosaic, frescos and paintings will embellish the interior of the station. The material used will be marble, jute, fibre reinforced plastic (FRP), ceramic and bronze. MahaMetro also plans to wall installations, optical illusions to giant sculptures
 
 Underpass | An underpass has been built so that passengers can reach the second platform
 
 Link with Khapri railway station | Later, an underpass will be built to link the Metro station with Khapri railway station
 
 Location | It is situated inside Mihan close to Khapri village
 
 SPECIAL FACILITIES
 
 Special lifts | One on each platform proposed for differently abled persons, senior citizens and parents with babies. The lift buttons have braille for benefit of visual impaired persons. A special ticket counter is proposed for children and differently abled persons 
 
 Facilities for visually impaired | Tactile flooring is proposed to guide the visually impaired persons from street to platform level
 
 Separate Toilets | Toilet facility for general public and unisex toilet exclusively for differently abled persons are provided in the concourse
 
 Baby feeding rooms 
 
 
