GHAZIABAD: A 21-year-old engineering student was found   under mysterious circumstances inside a   of his paying guest accommodation in Ghaziabad late on Sunday evening. The student, Harshit Jaiswal, was a second-year   of SRM University in Modinagar.

 An autopsy conducted on Harshit’s body was inconclusive about the cause of death. Police said they were informed about Harshit’s death at around 11pm by his uncle Pankaj Jaiswal. Harshit had reportedly been rushed to Jeevan Hospital in Modinagar by fellow boarders at the   that is located adjacent to the university along the Meerut Road. 
 
 Harshit had been living all alone in a single room on the second-floor of the paying guest accommodation since he was in first year. Harshit’s parents live in Shahdol, Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 His uncle Pankaj, who works in a private bank, lives in Delhi.
 
  “I reached the hospital at around 11 pm after being informed about some untoward incident by his father Rajkumar Singh. I learnt at the hospital that Harshit had been brought dead. His body was found inside the washroom of an adjoining room which was unoccupied. His friends said, Harshit used this washroom on Sunday evening because there was a geyser installed inside it,” Pankaj told TOI.
 
 Nearly 50 students live in the two floors of the paying guest accommodation apart from a security guard and a cook.
 
  “We scanned CCTV footages and noticed Harshit entering the room with a bucket in hand a little before 5 pm.He was dressed in a vest and had a towel wrapped around his waist. At around 8.30 pm, one of his friends came running to the cook as Harshit was not responding from the washroom which he had bolted from inside. The door was forced open by the cook and other students,” Lovely Bansal, owner of the paying guest accommodation, told TOI.
 
 “We have preserved the viscera for further examination as the cause of death was unclear from autopsy. Police was informed about the death by the deceased’s uncle. Our enquiries have revealed that Harshit was found lying inside the washroom with its door open. Further investigations are underway,” SHO, Niwadi, Ravinder Yadav told TOI. No case has been registered so far.
 
 
