PUNE: The   (PMC) will chip in with Rs 50 lakh for the conservation and restoration of the iconic   of   Postgraduate Research Institute.

 Located in the Yerawada area, the college building was constructed in 1864. It has been listed in the grade 1 heritage category. The building structure requires restoration as the wooden pillars have become weak, besides its flooring has developed cracks and the roof leaks.
 
 Pune mayor   has taken a note of urgent requirement of repairs and has offered to give Rs 50 lakh from the mayor’s fund for the crucial restoration work. She tabled a proposal before the standing committee of PMC to allot the funds at the earliest. The standing committee recently discussed the proposal and gave a go-ahead to seek the general body’s nod for the proposal.
 
 Standing committee chairman Muralidhar Mohol said the proposal was sanctioned unanimously to support the restoration and repair of the Deccan college heritage structure.
 
 Tilak said the Deccan college was among the most prestigious institutes in the country having heritage structure. The PMC has listed the oldest building on the campus under category 1 heritage structure. The civic body plans to ensure that all necessary steps are taken at the earliest to carry out repairs and conservation to restrict further deterioration of the old structure. 
 
 The work will be crucial to protect the heritage, besides conservation of the building will attract researchers, historians, students and tourists, Tilak said.
 
 In the proposal tabled before the standing committee, the administration had said many structures with historic importance remain neglected for years. The civic administration has prepared a list of structures in grade 1, 2 and 3 categories. 
 
 Officials of the Deccan college said the repair works have been carried out in phases here. “Some sections still need restoration. The works to be carried out would be related to repair of leakages, fixing of broken windows and doors,” an official said.
 
 The iconic heritage structure is a two-storied building with a tower at the centre. The building’s most area has been constructed with stones and wood. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
