The Kannada industry truly lived up to the maxim ‘united we stand’ on Friday, when it called for a total shutdown of film exhibition in protest against the exorbitant rates charged by a digital service providers for   of films for screening. Their demand, to not only reduce the fees for the service, but to also ensure that Kannada films get priority upload on to the system, is justified, says everyone we spoke to in unison, adding that this has been going on for years. The timing of the shutdown, though, has affected a bunch of films. 
“We’ve not received official word from the Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC), but we have been told to rework our release plans by a couple of weeks,” says director   of  . While he is still unsure about the revised release date, he admits that the development derails his team’s publicity plans.
 Another filmmaker, on condition of anonymity, adds, “The chamber is working for the greater good of the industry in this case, no doubt, but it also inconveniences smaller players, who were looking at getting a week or two in theatres before bigger films hit screens. If we then try to avoid a clash with a big film, our release will get pushed even further and that has severe financial repercussions.”
 One of the big releases of the month is the Kannada-Telugu bilingual, Rajaratha/Rajaratham, which has been fixed for March 23. The team, says director  , has not received formal communication from the chamber about moving the release date around, but is hopeful of being able to stick to their original plan. “We have scheduled a simultaneous release for both versions of the film, including in the US, which is our biggest market after Karnataka. Releasing it elsewhere, but not here, does not work for us and we are hoping to plead our case with the chamber, if a request to reschedule comes along,” says Anup. 
 Producer and distributor   is among those caught in the crosshairs. “I support the cause, but I agree that the shutdown has thrown things into disarray. Teams of smaller films have no other go but to reschedule their releases; it really does not matter to big movies, as exhibitors are also keen on having a big-ticket release. In the process of moving things around, though, you end up not getting the desired number of screens and time in the spotlight. The current impasse should, hopefully, be resolved in a day or two, as the strike has been called off in the Telugu and Malayalam film industries,” he says. 
 Distributor  , though, believes that the discomfort that's arisen out of the situation is nothing compared to the relief that reduced prices of digital upload will give filmmakers. “After completing production and formalities in distribution, nothing is in our hands, as we are dependent on the service provider to ensure that our content is ready for download by theatres. Cost-wise, every week we are dying. In an A centre we can make the payment, but that’s not the case in B and C centres that barely bring in any revenue. Theatres are shutting down because they are not able to sustain. We have individually discussed this issue with the service provider umpteen times, but there has never been a positive response. Before a release, we have to go to Chennai, where they prioritize Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and then Kannada for upload, as they have only one instrument for decoding. After all that, they take your high-definition content and convert it into mp4 format for satellite uplink, which, when downloaded at theatres does not provide the clarity that you originally shot in. My request, as a distributor, is for the chamber to help fund a programme to ensure that our content is handled at our end for screening and not through an external service provider,” he says. 
 
