GURUGRAM: Answers were flying in through the windows — in the form of chits — and loud announcements at  , where 200-odd Class XII students were writing their English paper as part of the Haryana board exams on Wednesday.

 Making a mockery of the pledge taken by the   and other district officials on Tuesday to ensure zero-copying during the examinations, around a dozen youths climbed on the rooftop of a house adjacent to the school building and prompted answers to the students.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 At the same time, another group of ‘volunteers’ were busy searching for answers to some ‘difficult’ questions from books and other study materials, on the courtyard of the school right under the nose of policemen, flying squad members and exam observers.
 
 When TOI team visited the school around 1pm, half an hour after the exam started, there were around 40 youths, trying their best to help out the students, while three cops on exam duty remained silent spectators to this mass cheating happening on the school campus despite prohibitory orders. In fact, when they saw a photo journalist clicking pictures, they alerted the boys and asked them to disperse.
 
 Angry over this sudden disruption, the boys pelted stones and sticks at this reporter and his photographer colleague. Finally, some of them jumped the boundary walls and fled while the others simply walked off through the main gate.
 
 Sarina Madan, a member of the flying squad, was also present. “A large number of (outside) boys are standing on the boundary walls and disturbing the exam process. I told the three policemen to check it. But, they can’t do anything as they are largely outnumbered by the outsiders,” Madan added.
 
  initially said everything was in order. “The Class XII exam is going on and no instance of cheating has come to light as yet.”
 
 When asked about the outsiders standing on the school premises, the principal said there was “some disturbance caused by the outsiders”.
 
 But those boys could be heard shouting answers from the books in their hands? “Even they don’t know the answers. I can see those boys standing on the roofs and the walls but what can they do? It is beyond their capacity to answer this board paper, they must be giving all wrong answers,” added Arora.
 
 She then showed a letter she had written on March 1 to the area SHO, requesting for deployment of five policemen during the board exams. “But we have got only three cops, who came in around 12 only after our PT teacher Suraj Singh went to the police station seeking help,” claimed Arora.
 
 Vishnu Prashad, SHO of Badshapur police station, on the other hand, said, “I have sent six cops. Nothing (no cheating) is happening in the school.”
 
 Chavish Kumar, the superintendent of the exams at the school, said, “There are boys who are coming inside the school through the main gate and by climbing boundary walls. They are creating nuisance. I will ensure that this issue is taken care of.”
 
 According to the rules, the district administration had imposed Section 144 for the exams, prohibiting presence of ‘unauthorised’ persons in a radius of 200 metre of an examination centre. But there is not enough cops to implement the restrictions. Premlata Yadav, district education officer (DEO), said, “I got a call from the block education officer about the disturbance during the exam at the Badshapur school. I will speak to the deputy commissioner on this issue.”
 
 
