Remo D’Souza’s action-thriller ‘
 ’ is undoubtedly one of the most awaited films of the year. The   starrer has also raised the anticipation level of the audience by creating a hype over the climax sequence in the film. Team ‘Race 3’ apparently shot the climax action sequence in just five days that would have otherwise taken 10 days.

  
  
 The climax sequence has both Salman Khan and   performing high octane stunts, glimpses of the sequence are seen in the trailer where Salman and Bobby are seen leading a stylish walk. It was shot with three units simultaneously. A set of actors were continuously shooting on the three units and wrapped the schedule in just five days that could have taken ten days to shoot.
 
 The climax action sequence was a very crucial sequence featuring the entire cast. The much awaited climax sequence will showcase the high octane action sequences that include explosives and intense car chase sequence. As there were explosions and high octane chase sequences involved high security calling for military being stationed on the sets in Abu Dhabi.
 
 Speaking about the same, Remo shared, "I wanted a very Real treatment for  . The action and explosions that you see in the film were all created on set. Fortunately, I had my team supporting my vision completely and delivering their best." The entire climax and action sequence has been choreographed by Tom Struthers and Anal Arasu.
 
 Elaborating further, he added, "The climax scene is an elaborate action sequence that was to be shot with the entire cast. Salman ensured that the gruelling schedule that would otherwise take 10 days to shoot, was completed in just 5 days. We had three separate units that were shooting simultaneously on set. The live explosions also had the military's presence for security concern. The entire sequence was an event in itself."
 
 Produced by Salman Khan Films and Ramesh Taurani under the banner of Tips Films, ‘Race 3’ is directed by   and will hit theatres on June 15, 2018.
 
 
  
  
 
