BENGALURU: A 27-year-old man from Kerala who had come to the city in search of a job was assaulted by a cab driver after he allegedly threw up in the vehicle near Kogilu Cross on   on Friday. He was travelling to   with a friend.

 Police filed a case of assault based on a statement by KSreejeeth, from Thrissur, at MS   on Saturday. “Sreejeeth’s right leg was fractured and he underwent surgery at a Thrissur hospital on Monday,” his friend said.
 
 Around 1.30am Friday,   and friend Nitin were waiting in Hebbal for a vehicle to go to their Hunasamaranahalli residence. A private cab — Toyota Etios, KA-41-A8659 — offered them a drop and the duo got into the vehicle. Near Esteem Mall, Sreejeeth threw up before he could ask the driver to stop the cab.
 
 
 
 
 The driver began abusing Sreejeeth, who promised to clean up the mess. The vehicle stopped at a petrol bunk near Kogilu Cross, Yelahanka. Sreejeeth got a bucketfulof water and cleaned the car.
 
 “The driver was not happy as he thought I hadn’t done a good job. He began abusing and hitting me with his hand even as my friend Nitin pleaded with him. The driver pulled out a tool from his car and hit me on my hip and below my right knee,” Sreejeeth said, adding the driver hit him on his head and leg before driving away.
 
 On being informed of the incident, Sreejeeth’s friends rushedtothespot. They took him to Shushrusha Hospital, Yelahanka, and then to Columbia Asia Hospital. He was then taken to MS Ramaiah Medical College Hospital before being shifted to Thrissur. Police registered a case under   sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324(voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace).
 
 Sujith Nair, employee of a private airline, said Sreejeeth’s right leg was fractured and heunderwent surgery at a Thrissur hospital on Monday. He has been advised three-month bed rest. “Sreejeeth, who has a diploma in civil engineering, came to Bengaluru a few months ago in search of a job and was staying with friends,” Nair said. Police said they nabbed a man suspected to be cabbie.
 
 
 
  
 
 
