MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Monday directed the   transport department to furnish data on how many persons in Mumbai had more than one car registered under their names. A division bench of Justices   and Nitin Sambre were hearing a PIL filed by activist   on traffic congestion in Mumbai. The PIL cited a TOI report published earlier this month that revealed Mumbai's vehicle count had risen 56% in five years to 32 lakhs in 2017. The bench asked the authorities to submit details of vehicles registered in Mumbai in a day. The judges sought to know from the state government and the   about steps taken to verify if new buyers of fourwheelers in the city had sufficient parking space for their vehicles.

 “There is tremendous pressure on local infrastructure. You are depriving an ordinary person who cannot afford a car from even using the road as there is no space for pedestrians to walk,” said Justice Patil. “Already, there are over 32 lakh vehicles in the city. You cannot allow the situation to worsen."
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The court suggested once again that it was necessary to put restrictions on persons who buy new vehicles. “Individuals are buying more than one car. You should place restrictions and permit registration of a new car only if the owner proves he has place to park it.” The bench, headed by Justice Patil, had made the suggestion in 2015.
 
 Advocate  , appointed as amicus curiae (friend of the court) to assist the proceedings, pointed to an affidavit where a deputy town planning officer had mentioned that legislation is pending before Parliament to make it mandatory to show availability of parking as a pre-condition for registration of vehicles.
 
 The bench said the city needs more parking spaces. “Mumbai needs more multilevel parking lots? There is no reason why restrictions in place in other cities on the entry of vehicles cannot be placed in Mumbai. Think about vehicular pollution and the impact it has on the health of children,” the judge said.
 
 The court has scheduled the matter for further hearing on February 2016. Raiyani cited press reports to point out that while the vehicle count in Mumbai had increased, the city’s length of roads had remained constant at 2,000 km for many years.
 
