

 
 
 
 The target is very realistic and there are reasons for it. The state’s revenues are increasing every year. We are actually getting revenue increase of about 14% from goods and sales tax (GST). This time we will get fixed amount of Rs 21,440 crore for implementing GST. Also, if you look at the budget figures, the revenue receipts have gone up by 30%. And if we take care of our expenses and if they increase at 5% to 6%, I think we should be on target.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t think it would be much of a burden for the income tax payers. It is Rs 200 per month, which comes to Rs 7 per day. A cup of tea costs this much and if you an income tax payee would you mind giving up even that much for the economically weak. It would be around Rs 150 per annum. But it would open Punjab for funding from the   and the   and these loans come very cheap. They had put a condition that the state first goes in for financial mobilization. At the moment whatever loans we are taking, the rate is very high. We are looking at the larger picture. We are fighting for the pride of Punjab now. We don’t want to be listed among the stated in the red. In the fourth year of the Congress government, Punjab will be back on its feet.
 
 Meanwhile, the government plans to bring social security legislation and some departments like lottery will be added to it. This will ensure that disbursements under various welfare schemes will be paid on time.
 
 
 
 It is not a question of opposition. We are answerable to the people of Punjab not to the people who were at the helm for the last 10 years but have now been reduced to less than 15 seats in the House. Had they (Akalis) done something for Punjab, they would not have been in this condition now.
 
 The Akali Dal has alleged that figures have been fudged in the budget, terming it window dressing.
 
 The allocation for agriculture budget will go up by 40% this time. The revenue receipts will go up by 30%. What objection can they have? They could not do anything for 10 years… I feel that if at all the Akali Dal has a problem, it is with   face and that is something I cannot change.
 
 
 
 
 There is delay in receiving data from the commercial banks and the relief is being given in a piecemeal way. The pace of the debt waiver scheme depends on the data received from banks and last year around Rs 370 crore could be spent. As and when the debt waiver catches pace next year, we are open to topping up the allocation. Resources for the head have been mobilized with steps like raising Mandi Board fee and rural development fee by 1% each to get additional Rs 900 crore. It was a promise made by the Congress government and we are going to go ahead with it. Initiatives like electricity subsidy will kick start our industry that was becoming unviable due to costly power. Meanwhile, I don’t know if the Centre will be willing to provide financial assistance for the debt waiver.
 
 
 
 It is wrong to say that the budget was leaked. A question on bus stand was listed before the budget and Sidhu said 14 new terminals were on the cards but did not know if the town in question was on the list. But in reality 16 bus stands will be built.
 
 
 
 It has brought me a lot of personal unpopularity. A finance minister’s job is an unpopular one. To say “no” is not a good thing but we will have to. Expenses of the government have gone down by Rs 6,000 crore. Revenue resource mobilization has been effectively done this time. People will remember the Capt Amarinder government for improving the financial health. We are looking at the next generation and not just the next year. We are trustees of wealth of Punjab and cannot use it for our personal popularity or popularity of Punjab. Achievements in politics lie in an action-oriented approach and not walkouts.
 
 
