NOIDA: Shortly after the   said that it had issued notices to 11 housing projects in Noida for diverting funds, spokesperson of   said that no fund has been diverted from projects and construction work at both its projects—Logix Greens and Logix Zest—is going on at full swing. The completion certificate of first phase of Blossom Greens has already received and possessions are being given. In Logix Zest, the completion certificate for the first phase for 1,200 apartments has already been applied for and is likely to be received anytime soon.

 Second phase of both the projects will be completed this year, he said. “We are running losses in both the projects. We could not increase the prices of flats even as the construction of the projects progressed due to worsening of sentiments.’’ In this scenario, there is no question of diversion of funds, he said.
 
 Director of Gardenia, Manoj Roy said that while presenting their accounts to Currie & Brown, the company had clearly stated that it had incurred losses of Rs 200 crore in the project, Gardenia Glory in Sector 46. Roy said despite losses, they have completed the project. It has applied for completion certificate which is pending because of the land dues, Roy said. In the meeting with Currie & Brown, he said the company presented its future plan to meet the shortfall in funds which is required to pay the authority’s dues against land. He said the company has profits in other projects from where it would bring fund to meet the shortfall. The allegation of diversion of funds is not correct, he said.
 
 Omaxe spokesperson Shravan Kumar Govil said projects like Omaxe Grand Woods and Omaxe Grand Courts are already completed and delivered. Their completion certificates are also taken from the authority. Omaxe Spa is also complete and completion certificate is applied for but due to disputed amount of dues against penal interest, it has not been issued so far. The authority has raised interest for the period during which the construction was stopped by National Green Tribunal, which has been challenged by all the developers in the region. The other project, Omaxe Heritage, he said, has just been launched. Therefore, any allegation for diversion of funds is not correct. 
 
 The other developers from 3C and Unitech could not be contacted.
 
 
