BENGALURU: Former Union minister S M Krishna has given the Budget presented by Arun Jaitely on Thursday the thumbs-up. Krishna, the former Karnataka chief minister, said for the first time the Budget has not addressed corporates and that it is a perfect blend of populism and fiscal prudence.

 
 
 
 It is a perfect blend of populism and fiscal prudence. In a democracy, budgets are an instrument through which certain messages are conveyed to the people. It is utopian to think of a budget without a populist approach. In a democracy, the finance minister will want to convert people to his party’s side. There is nothing wrong in being populist to the weak, neglected and vulnerable ones. Until now, every budget was meant for corporates. This is the first time there is nothing for this sector to look forward to. The National Health Protection scheme is an epoch-making decision coming after 70 years of Independence. It’s similar to the Yeshaswini programme I launched. That took care of the agricultural community.
 
 
 
 
 I am comfortable with the policies and programmes of Prime Minister  . The biggest attraction for me to join the BJP was Modi’s decisive leadership. I am not disappointed by my decision. How they are going to utilize my services is left to them. Considering my age and experience, I understand it becomes difficult for them to fit me in their scheme of things.
 
 
 
 
 The BJP asks for my suggestions and treats me with utmost respect. I am quite satisfied here, no regrets. I am glad that I am out of the Congress. I would not have accepted what’s happening there. I have rediscovered the deference that is rampant in the Congress.
 
 
 
 
 Polls should be fought on principles and marginally on personalities. Abusive language is distasteful, regardless of where it comes from.
 
 
 
 
 The infrastructure is pathetic. From 2004 till now, we did not capitalize on the goodwill Bengaluru had earned prior to 2004. I am responsible for the name Bengaluru has today. I am thrilled when at the airports or abroad techies click selfies with me and say because of you we are here.
 
 
