MADURAI: God is supposed to protect mankind, but an individual has come to safeguard the  , observed the Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Friday, imposing a ban on bringing mobile phones into the temple by visitors and devotees. 

 A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and R Tharani, which also suggested handing over the temple's security to central forces, passed the order on a petition filed by advocate S   who sought the court's intervention to safeguard the temple following a recent fire that damaged a mandapam. A minor fire in the   control room on the temple premises was also reported on Thursday. 
 
 The court said visitors were carrying cell phones which could be used as fuse for unlawful activities including as detonator endangering the temple campus. 
 
 
 
 
 Hence, like Thirumala Tirupathi temple, Mathura temple, Kasi Viswanatha temple, Sri Ramanathaswamy temple in Rameswaram and Taj Mahal, steps should be taken to prohibit the pilgrims, visitors and devotees from carrying cell phones. “In this regard, cell phone wallet could be opened by the authority to deposit the cell phones,” while the devotees entered the temple, the bench said.
 
 The bench said that despite enhanced security by frisking of visitors, something more needed to be done by the agencies or by the local police.
 
 “If need arises, the state government may also ask for the deployment of the central security forces. Time has come to enhance the safety and security of these monuments as many idols are being stolen merely by the thieves, ” it said. The judges further said that despite inflammable as well as plastic materials being prohibited, these were very easily available inside the precincts of the temple.
 
 Safety of the temple was at stake as it was stated that due to short circuit a fire accident had happened in the CCTV control room. “It has to be seen how the fire is taking place when the   is intact,” the bench said adding that if necessary, the entire wiring of the temple be replaced.
 
 The bench also directed that fire engine with sufficient water be stationed near the temple and officials as well as staff given sufficient training for handling fire extinguisher.
 
 The court was informed that even at the time of the fire accident there was no water available in the fire engine. It took one-and-a-half hours for the fire engine to collect water to put off fire which resulted in spreading of the flames to other areas. The court directed to enhance the capacity of   and the storage capacity of the hard disk to store the recordings for many days.
 
 The bench further said that it would keep the case pending for issuance of continuous directions as it was told that the corporation allowed many buildings to come up near the temple by violating the government order.
 
 
