KOLKATA: The   authorities have decided to augment filtered water supply in areas where an outbreak of an enteric disease had made thousands ill last month. One youth died reportedly after consuming contaminated water. 

 Some of the areas where new projects have been undertaken or pace of the ongoing project has been fastened include  ,  ,   and Patuli. These projects have been undertaken with special financial assistance from the state government, a   water supply department official said on Tuesday.
 
 Take the case of Patuli. Here, an acute water crisis has compelled a section of local residents to draw water from underground source. More than half of   population still depend either on ground water or packaged drinking water. “To make the situation worse, a section of residents resorted to water theft by directly drawing water from the KMC service main water pipe. This has further complicated the situation and led to water crisis,” a KMC official said.
 
 As a permanent solution to this crisis the KMC had planned construction of an overhead water tank and an underground reservoir. “The pace of the construction had slowed down due to a funds crunch. However, after the recent outbreak of diarrhoea which originated from Patuli and later spread to Baghajatin, Santoshpur, Dakuria, Lake Gardens and large areas off EM Bypass, the civic top brass have managed funds to wind up the project by end of this year,” said a civic official. Similarly, the KMC water supply department has asked the contractor engaged in construction of an underground reservoir at Anandapur off Rubi connector to EM Bypass to meet filtered water requirement of housing complexes in the area. The project could be complete by another six months, said a KMC water supply department official.
 
 Taking a cue from the recent diarrhoea outbreak, the KMC water supply department has undertaken filtered water augmentation at Lake Gardens and Dhakuria. “We had identified the dry pockets in Dhakuria and Lake Gardens and planned to set up water augmentation projects. But that was not included in our priority list. But going by the recent outbreak of an enteric disease, we decided to go for these water schemes immediately,” said a KMC water supply department official. Lake Gardens and Dhakuria remained some of the worst affected diarrhoea affected areas.
 
 According to preliminary plans, the civic body will build a water booster pumping station and an underground water reservoir at Lake Gardens. The KMC water supply department will also build a overhead water tank and underground reservoir in Dhakuria, said a civic official. “We need to guarantee good quality of water from Garden Reach to these localities. It will also pave the way for end of use of ground water in these localities,” said a KMC water supply official. 
 
