BHOPAL: In a bid to look for alternatives to treat sickle cell anaemia and its prevalence in primitive tribal population of the state, Bhopal- based Government Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital will carry out a research project. 

 Sickle cell anaemia is largely detected in primitive Bagia, Bharia and Saharia tribes concentrated in Annupur, Dindori and   districts. The Union government-supported evaluation study would be conducted for three years, said government homoeopathic medical college and hospital associate professor Dr Nishant Shrivastava. 
 
 
 The 
  
  (WHO) states sickle cell disease as one characterised by a modification in shape of the red blood cell from a smooth, doughnut shape into a crescent or half-moon shape. The misshapen cells lack plasticity and can block small blood vessels, impairing blood flow. Carriers of the disease show signs of sickle cell, but are not affected. The patients, on the other hand, have anaemia and require medication periodically. A slight change in their routine medication can severely affect patients due to a drop in immunity even leading to death.
 
 Prevalence of sickle cell anaemia is up to 20% in the tribes some of whom face a threat of extinction. The study would also utilise various research and interventions carried out by the   (ICMR). The project would be a first to look at alternative interventions besides allopathic medication, said government homoeopathic medical college and hospital principal and superintendent Dr SK Mishra. It aims to address lacunae in the diagnosis, prevention and management of the disease.
 
 Experts were speaking at international homoeopathic seminar on 'management of advanced blood pathologies in sickle cell disorders', organised by homoeopathic medical college here . About 400 doctors, scholars and PhD students from across MP participated in the seminar. 
 
 Sickle cell anaemia is a debilitating disease transmitted from parents to children. At present, there is no effective treatment for the ailment. Around 50% of the cases are reported from India, with Chhattisgarh, MP, Odisha, Jharkhand, and   reporting a higher frequency.
 
 
