VISAKHAPATNAM: The highly popular Engineering, Agricultural and Medicine Common Entrance Test ( ) - till a few years back the preferred gateway to engineering and medical institutions - is slowly losing its allure over the years. 

 Experts blame the situation on an unbridled mushrooming of private engineering colleges in every nook and corner of the state, coupled with dwindling employment opportunities.
 
 The disenchantment among students for Eamcet began a few years ago, ending decades of popularity during which thousands of aspirants (including many from the engineering stream) opting for long-term coaching to crack the exam. However, except for the fierce competition for seats at a few premier colleges, Eamcet has now been reduced to a mere qualifying exam over the course of the last few years, with almost half of the seats remaining vacant.
 
 Due to the same, several private technical colleges exited the fray for want of students and some other colleges are looking to shut down their institutions.
 
 In 2017-18, only 62,733 seats at private engineering colleges could find takers out of the total strength of 1,36,790 seats. Same was the case in 2016 with 88,422 seats joined the engineering course out of the total seats at universities and private colleges of 1,61,461. With the majority of the seats lying vacant, the test has now been relegated to a mere qualifying exam. The trend has also affected coaching institutions dependent on Eamcet.
 
 Director of Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (Petroleum University), Prof VSRK Prasad, explained the significance of Eamcet. “Until 1981, the engineering seats were allocated based on intermediate marks. After undue favouritism and malpractices of some private colleges in getting marks in intermediate, the government then introduced the ECET (Engineering Common Entrance Test) in 1981. Even today, Eamcet is the most relevant test to bring the best out of merit students. Only because of Eamet, meritorious students are finding seats in top-notch colleges,” said Prof Prasad.
 
 Prof Prasad suggested offering vacant engineering seats based on intermediate after concluding Eamcet counselling. “It will be a win-win situation for the aspirants as well as the private colleges,” said Prof Prasad.
 
 
