SECUNDERABAD:   government's prestigious   (SRDP) in   is likely to be put on hold for some time. Inordinate delay by the   (MoD) in parting with its land parcels in Secunderabad Cantonment and paucity of funds to take up two proposed mega skyways are said to be the main reasons for keeping SRDP on hold. 

 About 18 months ago, the state government had mooted two skyways running through the Cantonment area to decongest traffic on two arterial highways. The skyways will also save people living in Secunderabad Cantonment and adjoining areas from frequent traffic jams. But the government could not make any headway on the project as there was no response from the Defence ministry. A large chunk of Defence land is needed to execute the two skyways.
 
 Highly placed sources in Roads and Buildings (R&B) Department told TOI that two detailed project reports (DPRs) prepared for construction of skyaways will be submitted to Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA). While one skyway runs from Paradise Circle to Suchitra X Roads, the second one will connect SP Road with Hakimpet Air Force Station. 
 
 The government would require about 3,500 crore to complete the projects, including payment of land compensation to ousters. According to sources, government is already spending huge amounts on irrigation and water projects and is hard pressed for money to take up the skyways. Hence, the government is not showing interest to take over SRDP in Secunderabad Cantonment. 
 
 Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and   minister KT Rama Rao made serious efforts to get clearance for nearly 100 acres of Defence land, but till date there has been no positive outcome. In fact, of late there is no correspondence between government,   and MoD over the defence land issue, said sources.
 
 Keeping the delay in view, the government is planning to hand over DPRs to HMDA instead of keeping them with the R&B, said R&B sources. The demarcation process of the affected properties in Secunderabad Cantonment has already been completed, but owners of the affected properties are demanding more compensation. "Talks with government on this issue is yet to bear fruit. We will not oppose skyways, but the government must pay fair compensation," said a commercial property owner in Karkhana.
 
 
