PUNE : Southern Army Commander   on Saturday said anti-national elements had emerged as the new challenge for India’s security forces, including the Indian Army, in different parts of the country.

 Lt Gen Soni was talking to the media on the sidelines of the Southern Command’s 124th Raising Day at the   here on Saturday. 
 
 “Gradually, anti-national elements’ activities have emerged as the new challenge for the army and security forces in the country. (Such activities) are now getting reported in different parts of the country, but comparatively less in Southern Command’s jurisdiction. To tackle this challenge, we are well prepared and trained,” Lt Gen Soni said.
 
 The Southern Command was raised on April 1, 1895, with its headquarters in Pune. On April 21, 1942, the Command, comprising the then Bombay, Deccan, Madras districts and  , was redesignated as the Southern Army and shifted to Bengaluru.
 
 It was once again redesignated as Southern Command and relocated to Pune on July 1, 1946. It is the single largest command of the Indian Army insofar as geographical area is concerned. The Southern Command has jurisdiction over 11 states and 4 union territories, coverin g almost 41% of the land mass of India. Today, its formations and units including 43 training establishments that are located at 53 military stations.
 
 The commander had told the reporters last month, at the investiture ceremony, that the enemy was exploring all possible ways to infiltrate India to create “chaos” and “mischief”. He had also said that the border in   is fenced, but there are other ways to enter the state, via airports and railway stations.
 
 Last year, the Southern Command’s Liaison unit of Military Intelligence, with the help of Rajasthan’s antiterrorism squad, arrested six Indian citizens for spying for Inter-Services Intelligence in the state’s border districts. Southern Command has a large number of military stations there.
 
 Commenting specifically on challenges that lay ahead for Southern Command, Lt Gen Soni said, “Since the Command has got varied terrains — deserts, creeks and coastal areas — therefore, one big challenge is to make sure the soldiers are trained for all terrains.”
 
 Meanwhile, on Saturday, the Southern Command organized a ‘Military Tattoo’ show, which will continue on Sunday too, to commemorate the occasion. The event began with a thrilling combat demonstration which included combat free fall by  , followed by a horse show, dog show, motorcycle daredevil show and a martial arts display showcasing Kalaripayattu, Gatka and Malkhamb. The show closed with a display by various military bands from Southern Command, mesmerized the audience. 
 
 
