NEW DELHI: The 30th game of the 2018 Indian Premier League featuring Chennai Super Kings and Delhi Daredevils on Monday starts off looking like a one-sided contest, at least on paper. CSK have been ruthless this season managing to win five of their seven matches to be currently placed second, whereas the Daredevils continue to be at the bottom of the   standings, having won just two. 

 
 
 
 Reflecting his views on the same, former West Indies skipper   feels that the contest promises to pit the experience of CSK against the youth of Daredevils. In his column for TOI on Monday, Richards pointed out that even though CSK start favourites, it will all boil down to how each team executes its plans on the field.
 
 
 
 “The eleventh edition of the   hasn't failed to impress in terms of entertainment as well as talent. Each match has been amazing in its own way. Chennai Super Kings, who are currently the most consistent team, take on the Delhi Daredevils, who seem to be struggling to find their groove. On paper, both have great teams, but the execution on the field is where the difference lies. Delhi is a team that rides on young talent that are looking to prove themselves game after game, whereas the Chennai team is filled with experienced players,” Richards wrote.
 
 The former batsman, who scored 15261 runs for West Indies across Tests and ODIs, feels that the presence of T20 veterans give CSK edge. The likes of  , Suresh Raina, Ravindra Jadeja and Dwayne Bravo, who have been the pillars of the franchise over the last so many years, makes CSK one of the most formidable sides of the IPL.
 
 “With a strong top-order which guarantees runs in every game, CSK have what it takes to set up or chase down the biggest of totals that may seem close to impossible. Watching the Mumbai Indians step up against Chennai just reminded cricket lovers that anything can happen in T20 cricket with even the best having an off day,” Richards wrote. 
 
 “Suresh Raina improved his stance of being the IPL specialist by scoring yet another half century this season. Allrounders like Jadeja and Bravo, who come in and know how to make a difference with the bat and ball, along with a captain as cool as Dhoni, who can finish any game in style; Chennai certainly have what it takes to be the best of the best.”
 
 That being said, with a change in guard, the Daredevils may have found a fresh lease of life. In his first match as captain, against Kolkata Knight Riders, young   led from the front with an unbeaten 93 and demonstrated that Daredevils are still upbeat in terms of going out there and proving a point. Iyer also registered scores of 57 against Kings XI Punjab and 52 against Royal Challengers Bangalore in the previous two games, indicating that he surely is not willing to throw in the towel just yet.
 
 “Delhi, on the other hand, found their feet during their clash against Kolkata with the two youngsters, Shreyas Iyer, who led the team from the front to their highest total of the season and India’s U19 World Cup winning captain, Prithvi Shaw, putting on a show for the Delhi fans on their road to redemption. Trent Boult’s perfect swing bowling has been on track to make him the most successful bowler thus far and it has rightfully earned him the Purple Cap,” Richards mentioned. 
 
 “One could argue but, Gautam Gambhir's stepping down as captain has made the team realize that it’s now or never and the tournament is not over yet. It will be interesting to see what tricks Shreyas Iyer has up his sleeve to battle the might of Dhoni and his side.
 
 “Halfway through the tournament, with the teams shaping up nicely and finding their own strengths and weaknesses, it is no surprise to see Chennai cementing their place at the top barring a major setback, however it is imperative for Delhi, especially their senior players to give it their all and ensure themselves as a contender for the top four.”
 
