BENGALURU: In a bid to popularize its service and help air passengers,  , in collaboration with the   (BIAL), has installed an automated check-in kiosk in a   plying on the KIAS-8 (Electronics City-KIA) route. So far, 160 people have checked in from the bus. 

 This is the second such pilot project. Earlier, a pilot was run on the KIAS-9 (Kempegowda Bus Station-KIA) route, which saw 600 people use the facility.
  
  
 Passengers can punch in the booking number, select a seat on the touchscreen and get the boarding pass printed on the bus. They can head straight to the security check lane at the airport, without having to wait in check-in queues. The facility is more useful for travellers with only cabin baggage, as those with check-in bags will have to visit airline counters before boarding.
 
 At present, the facility is being offered to passengers taking domestic flights of five airlines: Air Asia, GoAir, IndiGo, Jet Airways and SpiceJet.
 
 The automatic check-in kiosk is installed near the middle door. While most passengers are happy with the facility, some complained of glitches which are delaying the printing of boarding passes.
 
 “The move helps save time as there is a lot of traffic on the airport route, particularly during peak hours,” said Vinod S, a passenger on the KIAS-8 route. Pavan S, another passenger, said: “I’ve tried it several times but I didn’t get a boarding pass despite several attempts.”
 
 BMTC, whose   ridership has been shrinking after the entry of app-based cabs, feels check-in and Wi-Fi facilities will attract more passengers. “Passengers using Vayu Vajra spend nearly an hour in the bus. The response to the check-in kiosk has been good so far. We hope BIAL will extend the facility to the remaining buses,” said a senior BMTC official, adding that the corporation is the first state-run unit to offer this.
 
 BIAL MD Hari Marar recently said they are working on extending the facility to all airport buses, which would also display flight information.
 
 SCHEMES WITHDRAWN
 
 *In 2010, BMTC introduced free Wi-Fi facility in select Vayu Vajra buses. A majority of the seats were fitted with a 7-inch touchscreen. However, the internet facility in Volvo buses was discontinued long ago and the screens were removed. BMTC promises to provide free Wi-Fi in all Vayu Vajra buses
 
 *In 2009, BMTC launched mobile restaurants in a few Vayu Vajra buses, which offered burgers, sandwiches and juices. But the project was cancelled after the private firm backed out.
 
 
