CHANDIGARH: Even the new year could not bring a sigh of relief for residents of Audit Pool Central Government Colony, Sector 41C who are suffering from acute shortage of drinking water supply. 

 Struggling for each drop of water everyday, the said they have been dependent on water tanks. In the absence of adequate water supply, these tanks are no less than lifelines for them. The locals have been struggling all the more since January 4, from when the water has stopped pumping in the supply pipes due some due to a glitch. The problem is more chronic for the houseowners living on the second and the third floors. They have not received a single drop of water for past several days, they complained.
 
  Toona, a resident, said, “Even after complaining verbally and filing written complaints to the concerned authorities, the supply of water has not been regulated. The pressure of water supply is so low that it is difficult to fill even in the smallest of the utensils.”
 
 The water tankers make rounds in the society several times in a day to fulfill the demand of water by all the 245 houses in the societies.
 
 Arjun Singh, a resident, said, “Water is the most essential thing that is needed in any household. Here, it is no less than a struggle to get adequate supply of water for every activity round the clock.”
 
 The locals also claimed that they have to get up very early in the morning just to store water. But, since the water supply is very low, it is also not possible to store adequate water. 
 
 The low pressure of water supply has become a bane for the residents, as the overhead water tanks have also dried up. There is no water for even drinking purposes. K N Lal, a local resident, said, “While the officials do not have much to help, we spend our lives waiting for water.”
 
 The residents complained, that even the landline and cellphone numbers are lying defunct, and are hardly of any help. Even if the team from the concerned departments come to check the problem, it is seldom resolved.
 
 Lubna further claimed that every year since 2012, summers are the most troubled times as no water is available. “Since, there are children in almost every household, water is all the more needed for various purposes to be fulfilled,” she added.
 
 With the summers ahead, the residents fear worsening of the condition and going through a similar trauma just as what they go through every year. They wanted visible solutions to their issue of water scarcity.
 
 
