KOLKATA : Considered one of the safest neighbourhood, residents of   are still trying to come to terms with the   of a   — unconscious and bleeding profusely — in an alley between two buildings.

 
 Actor Chaiti Ghoshal, who has been staying in the locality for close to nine years now, says she has never heard anything so gory as this. “I got the shock of my life when my cook told me about it on Friday morning. I have never seen something as gory as this in the locality. I always knew it as a peaceful locality.” Designer Ajopa Mukherjee echoed, “I still can’t believe that such an incident can happen in Golf Gardens. We have been living there for so long but haven’t heard of such an incident. I am extremely unnerved.”
 
 Their concerns were shared by a cross-section of people TOI spoke to. “I was informed about the incident by our maid and it was scary. The girl is from the neighbourhood and the fact that she was found lying bleeding inside the flat premises that is barely 200 metres from our house is indeed hard to believe. We used to consider this area extremely safe as of now but after what happened today, I don’t know how to react, especially when I have a young daughter,” said Piyali Banerjee, a homemaker.
 
 Gourab Ghosh, who runs a graphic designing firm in Golf Green, was shocked too. “We have three young women employees who often leave the office after 10pm because of the work load. We used to consider this place one of the safest but what has happened is extremely upsetting,” said Ghosh. Sriya Bhowmik, an office executive said, “At night, this stretch is very desolate. The bikers have a free run. On most occasions, there are no cops around. The only ones found are near the Bharat Petroleum crossing. Not just as a woman, I feel this stretch is bad for any pedestrian. This zone is very crucial because it connects Tollygunge to Jadavpur and Lake Gardens to Bijoygarh.”
 
 Mohua Chatterjee, a teacher, added, “We have been living in this locality for years. But I have to say that the scenario has changed a lot. Bikes without silencers speed down the road. When my father-in-law (actor Subhendu Chatterjee) was alive, he would often call up the Jadavpur police station and complain. The nuisance of these bikers has gone down a little but they haven’t disappeared completely. Besides, the empty stretch outside the Doordarshan Kendra complex is turning into a den of anti-socials. I often take a rickshaw there and see so many inebriated people lying on the ground. They are drunk on country liquor and don’t even have the energy to stand on their feet. This place has become very unsafe for women. We have a 15-yearold daughter. After this incident, I will be scared if she goes out of our house in the evening alone.”
 
 Chati agrees. “My niece comes over to my house and when I heard about this incident, I was worried about her safety. There are so many teenaged girls in my apartment. They are like my children. I am very upset and worried about their security. Predators are getting away because exemplary punishments are not being awarded to offenders.”
 
 
 
