Mysuru: The drinking water situation in Mysuru will become similar to what Cape Town in South Africa is facing in a few years, if abuse of   is not prevented, DC D Randeep said on Friday. 

 At a meeting with various department heads, including the geology department, on the depletion of groundwater in the district, Randeep said that Cape Town, the second most populous city in South Africa, is facing its worst drinking water crisis.
 
 To prevent such a situation, he told   authorities they must prepare a list of borewells in the civic body limits and direct owners to compulsorily install water recharge structures at their own cost. He also directed MUDA authorities to insist on water recharge structures in layouts.
 
 “While six taluks are in the safe category, Mysuru taluk is in critical category, with 90% of groundwater being exploited. If the situation is not controlled, there will be a severe drinking water problem in the district in a few years,” he said. 
 
 Randeep said MCC should insist on rain water harvesting (RWH) units in all buildings. For households in MCC limits, borewells should be given permission only for domestic purpose and not for commercial use. 
 
 
  
  
 
 “Such borewells should not be used to fill tankers and supply water for commercial purpose. Apart from households, hotels and commercial establishments should also install water recharge units,” he said. 
 
 He directed MUDA authorities to give plan approval only after permission from the assistant commissioner. “There should be no unnecessary digging of borewells and every building should have rainwater harvesting and water recharge units,” he said. 
 
 Follow Chennai 
 
 DC Randeep said that all new buildings coming under MUDA and MCC limits should adopt RWH. “Chennai is successful in implementing 100% RWH, which needs to be adopted in Mysuru. Civic agencies should provide rebate or incentives to building owners who install RWH to motivate them,” he said, adding that an awareness programme regarding RWH should be conducted for the public to take up RWH. 
 
 Illegal rigs, tankers should be seized
 
 When senior geologist Chowdary said there are only 28 drilling rigs with permission, and illegal rigs are used to drill borewells in the district, Randeep said rigs which don’t have permission should be fined and if they continue to drill borewells, they should be seized. 
 
 When the DC was told that there are people who fill water tankers from domestic borewells in MCC and MUDA limits for commercial use, he said such tankers should be seized and the borewells closed and sealed. 
 
 Randeep’s directive to officials, “Shoot from our shoulders whenever you find groundwater abuse”.
 
 
