MOHALI: A sum of Rs 1.23 crore meant for development works in villages were fraudulently transferred to a cement stockist in a major scam in the Kharar panchayat samiti, an audit of the records has revealed.

 Anuraag Verma, finance commissioner, rural development and panchayat, on Sunday said he has suspended two block development panchayat officers (BDPOs)   and Malvinder Singh. He has also given directions to district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) for registration of FIR against the accused.   is already in vigilance custody.
 
 Earlier, the department had unearthed a scam of Rs 8 crore regarding purchase of agricultural and commercial land in Jheurheri village in Mohali. The Punjab vigilance bureau had then arrested former district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) Gurvinder Singh Sarao, Malvinder Singh and a panchayat secretary.
 
 Verma said, “This is the second such   scam to be unearthed by our department. Panchayat funds were fraudulently transferred to a cement stockist in Sanaur village. We have recommended fresh FIRs against the two officers in addition to the earlier ones.”
 
 While explaining the modus operandi, Verma said a special audit of panchayat samiti was conducted after receiving a complaint about the fraud. The report disclosed that an amount of Rs 22 lakh were transferred on February 5, 2016, to gram panchayat, Majari, from Kharar BDPO, whereas the panchayat had never demanded such grant. On June 6, 2016, the amount was transferred to Kaura Cement Store, Sanaur. No work was carried out in the village in two years.
 
 Similarly, Rs 25 lakh was issued to Majat village and Rs 12 lakh to Todar Majra village, which was immediately got transferred to Kaura Cement Store.
 
 Verma said during the time period of December 5, 2016 to March 23, 2017, an amount of Rs 60 lakh were transferred for seven villages, Bathlana, Cholta Khurd, Kurdi, Siao, Gudana, Kurdi and Malakpur, without passing any resolution in the panchayat samiti.
 
 The entries in account books mentioned that the amount was issued to seven gram panchayats but physically the amount was issued to contractor Mukhvinder Singh released by BDPO.
 
 Tender for work was never allotted to any firm before releasing the amount. The inquiry found that the contractor had not carried out any development work in any of the village even after the lapse of eight to nine months.
 
 Verma said the probe had also found that besides Rs 60 lakh, another amount of Rs 91 lakh was also transferred by BDPO to Mukhvinder Singh for which no appropriate record was found under the samiti.
 
 Kharar panchayat samiti had shown that Rs 30 lakh were used for development works of gram panchayat,  , while the work was already carried out.
 
 
