MALAPPURAM: Reaffirming CPM's stand against joining hands with the   at the national level, chief minister   said here on Friday that joining hands with Congress to fight communal forces will affect the credibility of the Left parties. He was inaugurating the seminar on 'Left:Possibilties and Expectations', organized as part of the ongoing state conference of   (CPI) at Malappuram on Friday. 

 Vijayan, who spent a major portion of his speech to clarify the reason for opposing alliance with Congress, said that fighting against neo-liberal policies and globalisation and joining hands with Congress was not practical and the Left should be ready to work for an alternative political movement. 
 
 "If Left joins Congress in the fight against Sangh Parivar organizations, it cannot develop an alternative politics to protect federalism and democracy in the country," he said, adding that farmers and students across the country were on the warpath against the anti-people policies of right-wing forces and an alliance with Congress would restrict Left parties from taking its own stand in such issues.
 
 "We cannot fight imperialist forces such as   by forming alliance with parties like Congress, which are strong supporters of such countries," he said. He said that the state government was successfully implementing Left policies and the Left ideology gives people a ray of hope. Though he was not ready to name anyone, Vijayan said no one should dash hopes of the public by forming tie-up with anyone. 
 
 CPI state secretary  , who presided over the function, responded that national political scenario is different from the state politics and the difference between ideology and its practical side should be realised. Kanam spoke in support of joining hands with like-minded parties to fight a common enemy. 
 
 'Yet to discuss plaint against Ismail' 
 
 CPI state executive committee member K P Rajendran said that there was no factionalism in the party and the state committee had not discussed any complaint against party leader K E Ismail. Responding to the reports that Ismail has approached the CPI central committee against the remarks against him in the control commission report, Rajendran said that the conference would discuss the control commission report only on Saturday and the state leadership was not aware of any complaint by Ismail.
 
 Meanwhile, the party completed its discussion on political report on Friday and the discussion on the organizational report would be completed on Saturday. 
 
 
