Mysuru: Processing of   and complaints filed under   scheme is being delayed, owing to government officials being caught up with election-related work. This has only served to infuriated the public, and the student community in particular – who are in the midst of arranging documents necessary for applying to various universities, such as caste, domicile, income and Kannada medium certificates. Meanwhile, Karnataka chief secretary K Ratna Prabha has assured the public of addressing the problem.

 People complained that inquiries into the delay met with the same response time and again – that the case worker was deputed on election duty. Some went to the extent of stating that applications were not being accepted under Sakala scheme in a few departments, since   needed to be delivered in a time-bound manner under the programme.
 
 Kushi Subbappa, a II PUS student and a CET aspirant, told TOI that government offices were not accepting applications for certificates. “After I completed my II PU exams, I visited various offices in the city multiple times for various documents. But there has been a delay every time. The one answer that we have been getting at these offices is that the case worker in on poll duty. This is a really difficult situation,” Kushi said.
 
 Pointing out that the certificates he needed could be provided under the Sakala scheme, Kushi said, “They are not proving the number for these services since they might not be able to stick to a deadline during the elections.”
 
 Stating that delivery of services was bound to take a little more time during the elections, a revenue department official told TOI, “During the elections, officers are saddled with multiple tasks. From voter list modification to various other preparations, officers across departments are asked to pitch in for poll work. Naturally, there will be some delay.”
 
 On the other hand, chief secretary K Ratna Prabha said that she would talk to all deputy commissioners to find a solution to this problem. “During elections, there are bound to be a few issues. But, I have not come across any such problems. But, I will definitely talk to DCs to ensure that services are provided in a time-bound manner,” she told TOI.
 
 
