NEW DELHI: Central intelligence agencies have raised security concerns over settlement camps for illegal   immigrants in South 24 Parganas district of  , alleging that these are on encroached state government land and will encourage afurther influx of illegals. 

 
 Stating that the camps housing around 130 illegal Rohingya have come up in Hardaha, Baruipur in South 24 Parganas district bordering   despite the Centre’s advisory asking states to identify such squatters for deportation, an officer said the settlement showed West Bengal government was “heedless in controlling or checking the illegal entry of Rohingyas into Indian territory.” “Establishment of camps near the border has serious security implications. 
 
 It is highly likely to further encourage and facilitate human trafficking/illegal entry of Rohingyas into Indian territory,” an intelligence officer pointed out. The officer claimed setting up of Rohingya settlements had created a sense of unease in the local community in Baruipur, “which has been aggravated by enthusiasm exhibited by a section of the local leadership towards the illegal immigrants”. 
 
 The camps, the central security agencies informed the home ministry, were erected with the help of Kolkata-based NGO Desh Bachao Somajik Committee run by local resident Hossain Gazi, allegedly with financial support from a Hyderabadbased charity. The latter, which goes by the name Salamah, is reported to have contributed Rs 4 lakh to Gazi for settling the Rohingyas. 
 
 As per assessment of central security agencies, camps housing illegal migrants are thriving in the district due to the indulgent attitude of local leaders belonging to the ruling  . “The location of camps on government land is a case in point,” said an officer. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has earlier made known her soft approach towards Rohingyas. “We do support the   appeal to help the Rohingya people,” she had tweeted last year. Banerjee was also quoted as saying: “Let the government take steps against those who have terror links....We need to distinguish between terrorists and commoners”. 
 
 Many of the settlers in Baruipur camps reportedly hold   refugee cards. Interestingly, the Centre does not recognise the cards, maintaining that regulating entry or stay of foreigners is a country’s sovereign right. Last August, the home ministry issued an advisory to states to sensitise their law enforcement and intelligence agencies to take prompt steps for identifying the illegal migrants and initiating their deportation process. According to last year’s estimates, around 40,000 Rohingya Muslims were illegally settled in India.
 
