BENGALURU:   champions   responded to Sunil Chhetri’s call to react and kept their slender interzone playoff semifinals hopes alive as they walloped bottomplaced   5-0 in an AFC Cup Group E match here on Thursday.

 
 The commanding win, in front of mostly empty stands, helped the Blues to stretch their unbeaten record at home in AFC Cup matches to 11 (10 wins, 1 draw). But it remains to be seen whether the three points against the Mizo team, already eliminated, came a bit late as group toppers New Radiant of Maldives cruised to a 5-1 win against   in Male earlier in the day.
 
 It was Chhetri who started goal rush as he converted a penalty in the16th minute after Iraq referee Zaib Mohammed pointed to spot. The award came after Chhetri had a one-on-one with Aizawl ‘keeper Lalwmpuia. The ‘keeper blocked the shot but was penalized for a foul on the BFC striker.
 
 Even before the Highlanders could recover from the first jolt, came the second. Australian medio Erik Paartau snatched the ball deep inside the rival half and relayed it to Daniel Segoivia. The Spaniard who had missed a simple chance few minutes earlier, now made amends slotting the ball into the far post past the outstretched gloves of the ‘keeper.
 
 The contest was literally over by the half hour mark, when Chhetri gifted a goal to Udanta Singh who duly made it 3-0. It was Chhetri who did all the hard work but with only the goalkeeper to beat he suddenly became a philanthropist and squared the ball to Udanta to do the finishing touches. The speedy winger, who could easily compete with some of India’s top sprinters, was eagerly awaiting the pass from Chhetri and he wasn’t disappointed.
 
 Aizawl’s threats mostly revolved around Zikahi Dodoz who repeatedly weaved in through the right but the striker could never get past the BFC defence. Skipper Alfred Jaryan and medio Andrei Ionescu also gave a spirited show but the difference in class was too much to bridge.
 
 
  Bengaluru FC 5 (Segovia 17, 62; Chhetri 16-pen, Udanta 30, Daniel 89) bt Aizawl FC 0.
 
