NEW DELHI: After being criticised by the BJP for using the word " " in a tweet, Karnataka Congress leader   wondered what all the fuss was about because all she did was invert PM Narendra Modi's vegetable preferences.

 
 The PM, by now famously, said in Karnataka yesterday that farmers are his " " priority, and said that by "TOP" he meant "tomato, onion and potato".
 
 "Is this what happens when you're on POT?" tweeted Spandana, about Modi's comment. Spandana is in charge of social media outreach for the Congress.
 
  
  
 
 The BJP wasn't happy with her comment, assuming she was referring to a hallucinogenic plant.
 
 "Most people of the country and our party members won't even know what you are referring to (including PM himself) but your Leader will connect with it instantly. While you have insulted people of India with your atrocious comment, your leader will be proud of you!!", said BJP leader GVL Narasimha Rao.
 
 The BJP's  , its IT maven, also tweeted about Spandana's comment. He wondered whether Congress president   would suspend her like he did senior leader Mani Shankar Aiyar. The Congress suspended Aiyar from the party for using the word "neech" in a comment aimed at   during the Gujarat Assembly polls.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Malviya, though, didn't 'tag' Spandana on Twitter, and the latter wondered if it was because those who follow him on the microblogging site would see her videos about PM Modi.
 
 "You didn't want to tag me cos you didn't want people to watch the Modi video pinned on my timeline?" she said.
 
 Spandana also wondered - a mite disingenuously - what all the fuss was about, saying "POT" merely meant "Potato, Onion, Tomato". 
 
 "Come on! Be a sport- And hey, POT = Potato ?? Onion Tomato ?? what were you thinking? ??," she tweeted.
 
 
  
  
 
 The BJP was not mollified. Its IT wing head Malviya said more than 3,500 farmers have committed suicide in Karnataka, the highest for any state in India, but "speaking for them is being on 'POT'... Congress keeps it classy, again".
 
  
  
 
 PM Modi used the word acronym "TOP" when talking about the Union Budget 2018's 'Operation Green'.
 
 "Farmers producing fruits and vegetables are our 'TOP' priority. 'TOP' means 'Tomato, Onion and Potato'. We have launched 'Operation Green' in interest of these farmers. 'Operation Green' would be beneficial for farmers just like the Amul model was successful in dairy," the PM said yesterday.
 
 
 
 
 
