MANALI: Hundreds of tourists were caught in nearly 15km-long jam between Kullu and Manali on Tuesday night.

 The jam that lasted for six hours left tourists stranded.
 
 While some got stuck at places where they had nothing to eat, others were forced to take refuge in whatever accommodation (guest houses, homestays and hotels) they got.
 
 Tourists coming to Manali managed it somehow, but it was nightmare for those going back home as they had to catch flights and trains from Delhi and Chandigarh.
 
 The police said it all happened due to the closure of   bypass highway due to landslide and the traffic was diverted to the national highway. The damaged road, according to the administration, would be opened for light vehicles in a couple of days, but it might take a week or more for buses and other heavy vehicles to use the road.
 
 Commuters said it was not heavy traffic, but pathetic condition of the highway caused the jam. Ravi Mahant, a commuter, said: “We learnt that National Highway Authority of India ( ) has started digging the road at many places to make culverts. They should have built the same before the summer.”
 
 Meanwhile, hundreds of tourist vehicles coming from Marhi jammed the national highway from Manali till Bahang on Wednesday evening. “We were stuck in a jam near Vashisht. The queue of vehicles is starting from Manali town. Two bridges on the river have become traffic bottlenecks as vehicles coming from all directions use them,” a taxi driver Rakesh Sharma said over the phone in the late evening.
 
 Kullu superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri said though extra force has been deployed on roads, especially near bottlenecks, closure of bypass road has made things difficult for the police. “The traffic police are working hard,” she said.
 
 Box:   highway reopens
 
 Manali: The Border Roads Organization (BRO) on Wednesday evening reopened the Manali-Keylong highway after clearing snow from Rohtang Pass. The pass had received over 60cm of snow on Monday and Tuesday. A BRO official said the snow has been cleared and road is open. BRO has cleared snow from Rohtang five times since April 8.
 
 
