PHAGWARA:With no solution in sight for demands raised over a caste   in   on April 13, there was no let-up in deployment of security forces in the town on Friday, even as officials of the district police and administration managed to convince leaders of all communities to back a peaceful way out.

 Most shops and education institutes remained open in the town, but there was an uneasy calm. In the evening, Jalandhar division police commissioner Raj Kamal Chaudhary, inspector general of police Naunihal Singh, Kapurthala deputy commissioner Mohammad Taibab and SSP Sandeep Sharma, along with other senior officials, met representatives of all communities. In a statement released to the press after the meeting, the district administration said “influential residents” of the town responded affirmatively to an appeal by the government to keep peace under all circumstances.
 
 BJP legislator Som Prakash and Congress leader Joginder Singh Mann attended the meeting along with mayor Arun Khosla and leaders of various communities. An official, who did not wish to be named, said all political and community leaders vouched for peace, but security forces continued to on their toes as issues between the two communities were still unresolved.
 
  leaders pressed for the registration of a case against BJP leader Inderjit Khalyan. He allegedly made a “casteist” remark during a protest rally by General Samaj Manch on Wednesday, against the naming of the ‘Gol Chowk’ as ‘Sambhidan Chowk’. They also demanded the withdrawal of FIRs against Dalits.
 
 Members of the General Samaj Manch, on the other hand, did not give any statement of peace being brokered. According to the body, more Dalit leader should be booked for starting the clash. The decision to rename the contentious ‘Gol Chowk’ as ‘Sambhidan Chowk’, too, is uet to be settled. A section of locals have demanded that the matter should be left to the elected members of the Phagwara municipal corporation.
 
 Politicians and councillors belonging to SAD-BJP and Congress have already extended support to the general community. Phagwara MLA Som Parkash, mayor Arun Khosla, SAD leader Jarnail Singh Wahid, Congress councillor Sanjeev Bugga and many others had even participated in a protest rally organized by General Samaj Manch on Wednesday, and Congress councillors had even threatened to put in their papers in protest against the state government’s decision to rename the chowk. They demanded the arrest of Lok Insaaf Party leader Jarnail Nangal and Ambedkar Sena (Mool Niwasi) president Harbhajan Suman.
 
 On April 13, a clash had broken out between members of a Dalit outfit and Hindu “upper caste” right-wing groups when members of the former allegedly installed a board carrying a picture of Ambedkar and the “new name” at the chowk on National Highway-1. Four persons were injured; one of them, Yashwant Bobby, is undergoing treatment in Ludhiana and stated to be in a serious condition.
 
 The community leaders of both the Dalits and the general samaj had given the district administration time till Monday to fulfil their demands, claiming that they will have to restore to protests in case their demands are not met.
 
 The DC, who has been in Phagwara since the clash, said efforts were afoot to ensure situation returns to normal.
 
 “For this, we have sought help from influential members of society,” he said.
 
