JAIPUR: Two gynaecologists and their agent were arrested from Gujarat by pre-conception pre-natal diagnostic technique (PCPNDT) cell of the state for their alleged involvement in sex selection activities on Wednesday. 

 It is for the first time, the state’s PCPNDT cell conducted two decoy interstate operations simultaneously at the same time. 
 
 PCPNDT cell officials arrested the doctors and agent and brought them to Banswara. They will be produced before the PCPNDT court on Thursday. 
 
 The PCPNDT cell is taking decoy operations as a major success as they claimed that sex ratio in some parts of Banswara and Dungarpur had gone down. It came into the notice of the PCPNDT cell and they started investigating into the matter. While they were closely monitoring it, they had received information that there are agents who search clients from Dungarpur and Banswara who want to know about the sex of the baby in the womb. 
 
 A PCPNDT cell official said, “We came to know that the agent who is active in the area take pregnant women to Gujarat’s Santrampur area of Mahisagar district for sex determination of the baby in the womb.”
 
 The PCPNDT cell immediately took the decision to conduct the decoy operations. 
 
 So far, the PCPNDT cell has conducted 11 decoy operations in Gujarat. Besides, the two decoy operations conducted in Gujarat were 32nd and 33rd of the total interstate decoy operations conducted by the PCPNDT cell including in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. 
 
 State’s appropriate authority (PCPNDT) Navin Jain said they have arrested a doctor, who is MD in gynaecology, Dr Bharat Bhai Kuber Patel, who works in Shradha Hospital. 
 
 He alleged that the team conducted the   also recovered the money from their possession which was given to them for conducting sex determination test. He said that they have arrested the gynaecologist (MD) red-handed. 
 
 At the same time, the second team of PCPNDT cell conducted a decoy operation in the same area at Jeevandeep Hospital. The PCPNDT cell arrested Dr  , a gynaecologist and his wife Kamla Ben. 
 
 The officials said that since health department has enforced PCPCDT Act effectively in the state, the inter-state gangs have become active. They take pregnant women to other states for conducting sonography to identify sex of the baby. 
 
 
