GREATER NOIDA:   made only a passing mention of Noida in a short speech at the   campus on Friday but his appearance sent out a strong message nevertheless — the CM was visiting a district that his predecessor did not set foot on for the second time in just over a fortnight.

 From being a political pariah because of the ‘Noida jinx’ that gained currency among CMs over the decades who feared losing an election if they came to these parts, Noida is suddenly basking in political attention.
 
 Most certainly the attention of the CM and PM, who addressed a common audience for the second time since December 25 when they travelled together on the first train of Delhi Metro’s Magenta Line. On Saturday, they inaugurated the   on the university campus — the PM wasn’t physically present but delivered an address through a video link broadcast on a giant screen.
 
 In his 40-minute speech, the PM focused mostly on connecting with the youth and exhorted them to draw a roadmap for the 75th Independence Day in 2022. But he did not forget the topics of the day — he congratulated Isro for completing 100 satellite launches, and patted Yogi, who recently matched wits with the Karnataka CM on Twitter, for his social media skills. The crowd burst into laughter when the PM described the UP CM as a “very big player who had won many fights on Twitter”.
 
 “I wanted to come among you all and talk to you, the mini-India which is currently gathered in  . I wanted to take a glimpse of this enthusiastic India but there were constraints. Hence, I am talking to you using technology. I usually try to keep myself abreast with whatever has happened in an event I cannot visit and I will try my best to gather all information about whatever activities you participate in,” the Prime Minister said.
 
 Highlighting schemes for the youth like the   and Skill India, the PM said around Rs 4 lakh crore worth of loans had been disbursed under the Mudra scheme and around 7 lakh youths had been registered for apprenticeship in the Skill India scheme, adding that his government was bearing a part of the expenditure of companies for this.
 
 “Do not worry. Move ahead and take the first step. The government is with you,” he told budding entrepreneurs, adding they would not have to worry about bank guarantees, loans and paper work. “We will hand-hold you. Then, you yourself are capable of moving ahead,” the PM told the gathering. 
 
 
