PUNE: A squash “bat” is similar in shape to a cricket bat, said a 22-year-old from rural   who, going by his district sports authority-issued certificate, had participated in a national-level squash event. Another 20-year-old “ice-skater” from Beed was tongue-tied when asked about ice-skating gear. He too had a certificate to prove his participation in a national-level event.

 
 
  
  
 
 These young men were just two among the 235 candidates who were caught with fabricated certificates — to qualify for the sports quota — during the   drive held in the city on Thursday. All of them crumbled under pressure when the recruitment officers scrutinized their certificates, purportedly issued by different district sports authorities. Their cases have now cast a huge shadow of doubt over the manner in which certificates of participation at state, national and international sporting events are issued by the district authorities of the state sports department.
 
 An open recruitment was conducted for 240 posts of constables, and 10 of those posts were reserved for sportspersons under the sports quota. Only candidates who have participated in state, national and international sporting events are considered for the quota. Such candidates are required to furnish a certificate of participation issued by their district sports authority. The city police found that only 15 sports quota candidates, out of 250 who had applied, had genuine certificates. 
 
 The document verification was the last stage of the open recruitment drive that had attracted 45,000 applications. The recruiting authorities found a slew of discrepancies in the claims of more than 90% of the sports quota aspirants. “During verification, the officers found that many candidates hailed from rather humble family backgrounds but, had furnished certificates relating to their participation in sporting events that usually require considerable monetary investment. Some of them even brought fabricated scorecards of national events,” said Sheshrao  , the deputy commissioner of police (Headquarters), while speaking to TOI on Sunday.
 
 “Most of the 250 applications for the sports quota seats were received from aspirants hailing from Marathwada, Vidarbha and parts of western  ,” Suryawanshi added.
 
 “We asked the candidates found with fake and fabricated sportsmen certificates to leave the venue. Within minutes, barring the 15 genuine candidates, all others left the Headquarters parade ground,” he said.
 
 “We will now write a letter to the concerned district sports authorities and their superiors to undertake an apt verification drive of the sports certificates issued by them and curb any misuse of such documents for recruitment purpose,” said Suryawanshi.
 
 
