When   essayed the lead role in ' ', we thought he had broken barriers. In his upcoming film, he wears a pink underwear with a sanitary napkin to drive home a point. Now, the actor is breaking ground. Some memes and mimes are calling it a ‘period’ film, we call it a landmark movie. It’s a film about the hygiene around a woman’s monthly cycle, a subject that men and women should have discussed together eons ago. It is about time they break the ice and bury the taboos. And it is about time that our superstars portray the real superheroes on screen. Move over, Superman and Batman, apna very own   is here. On the eve of his movie’s release, Akshay Kumar shares his thoughts on the asli hero (Arunachalam Muruganantham), the power of good cinema and the influence of the superwoman in his life,  . Read on… 

 
 I believe in Twinkle’s decision, and I also believe that women understand things faster than men. So, when she told me the story and expressed her desire to make it into a film, I said, ‘Let’s go ahead and do it’. When I was trying to reach Arunachalam Muruganantham (the inventor of a low-cost sanitary pad manufacturing machine on whom the movie is based) to discuss it, he didn’t respond to me. Finally, Twinkle got through to him and he heard her out. Muruganantham doesn’t like talking to men, he believes that they are slow in such matters and it takes them a long time to understand.
 
 
 The whole idea started while we were shooting for 'Padman'. We had taken some local actors for the shoot, and they had to hold a sanitary pad in their hand for a sequence, but they ran away because they didn’t want to do it. They said, ‘Hum paap ko apne haath mein nahin lenge’. That line stuck with me. Today, we have to break that belief and other taboos associated with it. When a man holds a sanitary pad in his hand and says that he is not ashamed of it — that is where the mindset begins to change. For me, Padman is already a hit, and it is not because of how much the film could earn, but because we have started a conversation that was much needed. The other day, I overheard a group of six-seven men talking outside my vanity van, and the topic of their discussion was sanitary napkins. Prior to this film, I have never heard men talk about sanitary napkins. Subjects like periods and sanitary napkins were spoken about in hushed tones. Twinkle’s conviction in the story gave me the power to do this film. Even when we were shooting the scene where I am wearing the pink underwear, it took me precisely 30 seconds to get into the part. Once Balki (director) started rolling the camera, it didn’t matter. Even if I have to wear pink underwear or a pad again, to bring awareness on menstrual hygiene, I will do it.
 
 
 
 You have to be true to the subject and the film. Yes, the film is entertaining, and there are emotions, songs, drama and tragedy, but we have treated the topic of menstrual hygiene with sensitivity and not tried to make fun of it. After 'Toilet: Ek Prem Katha' released, I was told that a lot of people stopped going to villages to give bhaashans on things like shauchalay ghar pe banao, shauchalay saaf rakho, biwi ke liye yeh karo, woh karo... All they do is, raat ko parda (screen) lagatey hain aur 'Toilet: Ek Prem Katha' dikhaate hain. Nobody is interested in listening to bhaashans, you’ve to talk to people in the way they understand best. The power of cinema is such that it enters deep inside and you can’t forget it. For instance, at some point, you must have read about the incidents that 'Airlift' was based on, but I am sure that most of us wouldn’t remember it too well. But when it is made into a good, commercial movie, it stays with you. That is the impact of cinema.
 
 
 
 She was very involved as a producer. We always talk about a lot of things. Twinkle reads a lot, so she has more to tell me and I have a lot to learn from her. Whatever I have learnt on menstrual hygiene while making this film, I have learnt it from her. Before this film happened, I had never held a sanitary napkin in my hand. While growing up, no one in my family had told me to even buy one. I was aware that five-six dino ke liye periods aate hain. That’s all I knew. Somewhere, it is a man’s fault, and somewhere it is not entirely, because a subject like periods was not discussed in our homes from the beginning. Our mothers and sisters kept it a secret from the men of the house. That is the way it was, but we have to break those barriers in our minds, too. Men didn’t realise that periods is something that they need to know about and understand.
 
 
 
 I think that today, even if I am doing a film like 'Housefull', I will deconstruct myself and change the whole way of looking at it. When your work becomes your passion, everything changes. I wait to wake up in the morning and go to work. I ensure that I wrap up one film in two-and-a-half months, so that I can move on to my next film. That way, there is no time to get bored, because after shooting for a film for four months, it could get boring. I don’t give myself a chance to get bored of what I am doing.
 
 
 
 Yes, I was always disciplined, but when I started out, my purpose was to earn money. I think after movies like 'Sangharsh' and 'Jaanwar' (both in 1999), something changed for me. Then, acting ceased to be just a job and it turned into a passion. I started loving the process. Before that, it was like… chalo, let’s earn money. I will do some stunts, hang on to a helicopter, sing songs and go home. Also, at that point of time, I didn’t know any better. In a way, the industry folks and the media are also responsible for the switch that happened inside me. I was constantly called an action hero and my directors said that they wouldn’t cast me in a film, which had no action. I still remember that after looking at the rushes of one film, a director said, ‘Yaha movie dip khaati hai, ek kaam karo, Akshay ka action daal do’. I had become an actor who quickly filled in that space, so if the movie dipped at some point, they added my action scenes or songs there. So, a lot of things are responsible for the way I started viewing my career.
 
 
 
 Well, actually, the 10-year-bus is a bigger bus; there is a mini bus which runs every year. It is important to catch both the buses. Sometimes, if you miss the mini bus, the next year will be a little difficult. But no worries, you will get a chance to hop on to the mini bus the year after that. The bigger bus is the one that you can’t miss, because that will be a big problem. This is how I view any kind of career, not just acting or the movies business.
 
 
 
 I didn’t do it just from that point of view; I did it because of friendship. I have known Mr (Sanjay Leela) Bhansali for long and I have done two successful films ('Rowdy Rathore' and 'Gabbar Is Back') under his production. I couldn’t say ‘No’ to him. Most importantly, 'Padmaavat' has gone through a lot and a huge amount of money has been invested in it. That money belongs to my industry, the movie industry. It is important that we support each other. Our industry needs to understand the fact that if any film works, it means the price and value of every actor and technician will rise considerably. With every film that works, the stock of the industry goes up. What generally happens here is that, when one actor or director’s movie doesn’t do well, I have heard people say, ‘Nahin chala, achcha hua’. They are not realising that the Bollywood stock will start dipping and it will obviously affect every actor in the industry. I wish to see a time when there is togetherness in the industry, so much that when someone’s movie is a hit, the rest of them rejoice and celebrate. If it doesn’t do well, they should mourn it, too. I feel blessed that I am getting so much support for my film and I am very thankful for that. If there is any kind of support that I can give any film, I will do it wholeheartedly. Any good and positive business person would think this way. Every film that works strengthens the industry.
 
