KOLKATA: The death of a nursing student sparked tension at   on Friday as fellow nursing students alleged that the management was responsible for the death.   (21), an inmate of a hostel on the hospital campus, was found hanging in room number 15 of the hostel’s second floor around 10pm on Thursday. Cops suspect the girl had committed suicide.

 
 Ghosh, a resident of West Midnapore’s Ghatal, was a third year BSc nursing student. Sources said the student had not done well in a recentlyconcluded examination. On Thursday, the authorities called parents of all nursing students, who had faired poorly in the examination. Other students alleged that these students were reprimanded in front of their parents, who were also pulled up for giving smartphones to their daughters.
 
 “Rinki felt humiliated as her parents had to face the humiliation from the hospital authorities. This pushed her to take such a drastic step,” alleged a nursing student.
 
 Another nursing student also claimed that Rinki became upset after the parent-teacher meet.
 
 Soon after her death on Thursday night, the students launched a protest. They accused the hospital authorities of trying to keep the death under wraps and also alleged that the security staff had manhandled them. The agitation went on till way past midnight. Senior cops rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control.
 
 Fresh trouble erupted on Friday morning when the students again staged a demonstration, demanding punishment of those responsible for Rinki’s death. The girl’s parents later lodged a complaint against the principal of the nursing college and hospital authorities alleging abetment to suicide.
 
 Hospital authorities, however, refuted the charge. “The death is unfortunate and the smart phone issue was just a suggestion to parents. No student was rebuked as the meeting was held only between the parents and teachers. But, about 300 nursing students laid siege to the hospital campus on Friday, not even allowing the doctors to attend work,” said Dr  , chief executive of Peerless Hospital.
 
 
