JAISALMER: The gang of thieves who were caught while taking out buried gold and silver from the houses in   village that has been abandoned by Paliwal Brahmins. The thieves confessed that they had taken out gold and silver jewellery worth lakhs of rupees from dhanua and kuldhara village and had sold in Jaisalmer and delhi market. Police in this regard have taken to goldsmith in custody and are being inquired.

 SP   said that during the inquiry, the gang said that for quite a long time, they were trying to find out buried treasure under the houses in abandoned villages of paliwal Brahmins at kuldhara, dhanua, khaba etc. They had dug many houses to find out hidden treasure. In the meantime, at dhanua and kuldhara they found around 1kg silver and 150gm gold jewellery and other things, which they sold at Jaisalmer city, badora village and delhi to goldsmiths.
 
 Yadav said that during inquiry, the goldsmiths whom they sold jewellery of which two were taken into custody and are being inquired. The gang had sold jewellery to different goldsmiths. The gang is very dangerous and is active in stealing for quite a long time. Investigating officer   kanta singh dhillo said the gang creating haunted atmosphere at these abandoned houses force people to run away from these places so that they can search for the buried treasure.
 
 He said the gang got two machines to find hidden treasure and on not getting success, they had brought a new machine through which they took hidden treasure from a wall of the house at dhanua and in kuldhara they dug out silver jewellery and in total they got 1kg silver and 150gm gold jewellery.
 
 SHO said at dhanua village, the gang using metal detector searched 70 houses and after succeeding in one house, they failed in others. Then they tried in kuldhara and in coming days they were going to bring modern machine worth lakhs of rupees to find out the treasure, but police caught them. Today they were produced in the court and were sent to one day police remand.
 
 Famous historian   said that   of 84 villages calling a meeting at night, migrated and decision was taken so quick that they could only take away with them whatever was available. They could not take away jewellery and money that they had get safe in walls and basements of their houses, as they had no time to take with them. These paliwal Brahmins had to get away from the border of Jaisalmer before the sunrise. Due to this, there are possibilities of treasure being hidden underground at abandoned houses and villages of Paliwals even today.
 
 
