Shimla: Senior Congress leader and former urban development minister Sudhir Sharma has asked chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government to clear its stand on the issue of regularizing unauthorized structures in Himachal Pradesh. He said that on December 22, last year, the Himachal Pradesh high court had set aside a legislation brought by the previous Congress regime to regularize unauthorized structures but till date the BJP government had not challenged the decision in the Supreme Court.

 The state government had made the amendment in the Himachal Pradesh Town & Country Planning Act-1977 by inserting Section 30-B in the Himachal Pradesh Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act-2016. Section 30-B confers power upon the government, empowers officer or authority to exempt development of any land or building or class of lands or buildings developed on or before June 15, 2016, from all or any provisions of the Act.
 
 Sudhir said that the BJP government should clear its stand on the legislation brought by the previous Congress government by amending the town and country planning act. He said that so far the BJP government had not approached the SC on the issue, so it should clarify whether it wanted to demolish thousands of   across the state. He said that to provide relief to people, governments in many states had moved the SC on similar issues and have got relief.
 
 He said that deviations in most of the buildings occurred as the town and country planning department was short of staff and manpower. He said that as the officials from the department could not reach the construction sites, most of the building owners deviated from the rules at the time of construction. The former minister further said that the state had around 32 buildings falling under the category of unauthorized structures and to provide them relief the previous Congress regime had amended the town and country planning act in the state assembly. He said that as the BJP government was silent on the issue, it was high time that it should tell the people of the state about its stand on the issue.
 
 
