INDORE: When the glittering   was brought to the   from Mumbai on Sunday,   officials placed it near the Vidarbha dressing room. It augured well for Vidarbha.

 When the trophy arrived, the final was still hanging in balance.   had been dismissed just before the second new ball was due. Delhi pacer   was bowling with serious pace. Left-arm seamer   was also looking sharp. 
 
 With almost 250 overs to go, no side looked on top. Vidarbha trailed by 49 runs with four wickets intact. One more wicket would have exposed the tail to Saini & Co. The situation demanded tough characters. Who better than   and  ? 
 
 Both have faced difficult situations in their lives. Nothing came on a platter for them. They had to wait long for their chances and earn Ranji Trophy berths through consistent performances. Even after getting into Vidarbha's senior side, they had to go through difficult situations but they came out with flying colours each time. 
 
 Both Wadkar (133*, 16x4, 1x6) and Sarvate (79, 154, 11x4) play for Navniketan Club and have batted together on numerous occasions. On Sunday, their task was to bat, bat and bat. They did exactly that and put Vidarbha in a situation where they have a hand firmly on the Trophy. 
 
 With a 233-run lead, it's Vidarbha's game to lose now. The body language of Delhi players in the last session showed clear resignation. Vidarbha just need to play normal cricket to create history. 
 
 The 169-run Wadkar-Sarvate stand for the seventh wicket-which lasted for 288 balls-was a story of determination and calmness, which they displayed during three and half hours on Sunday. They were sensible enough to judge the situation and react accordingly. 
 
 When Wadkar and Sarvate came together, Saini had already bowled five overs. They gave him enough respect but didn't forget to punish his bad balls. After all, Vidarbha needed runs too. 
 
 "They played good normal cricket," Madhya Pradesh skipper Devendra Bundela summed it perfectly. "They showed brilliant application. In a big game like this, different thoughts cross your mind but they did well to keep their focus on the job," he added. 
 
 The Holkar stadium wicket was at its best for batting on Day 3. All Wadkar and Sarvate needed was to show patience and application. They showed plenty of it. Except for the one that led to Sarvate's downfall, there were hardly any loose shots. 
 
 Their 50-run stand came in just 53 balls and snatched the momentum away from Delhi after they were looking like running through Vidarbha lower middle order. When Saini left the field due to a niggle, Wadkar and Sarvate took on other bowlers.
 
 Sarvate played some lovely shots on his legs and straight down the ground. Wadkar was happy to give strike to his senior partner. Once they crossed Delhi's 295, they looked more relaxed. 
 
 By lunch time, Vidarbha were 41 ahead but still not out of woods. Both dug in deep and tired the Delhi bowlers in the second session. Wadkar was the aggressor this time, when Sarvate was finding it tough to score due to defensive bowling. 
 
 This is not the first time Wadkar and Sarvate did the rescue act this season. They have been consistently bailing Vidarbha out. Vidarbha were 94-against Kerala in the quarterfinal when two added a crucial 74 for the seventh wicket to get the score past 150-run mark. Wadkar scored fifties in both innings. Sarvate scored useful runs and then ran through Kerala batting. 
 
 In the semifinal, Sarvate was the top scorer in the first innings. In the second, his 55 took Vidarbha beyond 300-run mark against Karnataka at the Eden Gardens. Wadkar (28) had a 72-run sixth wicket stand with   in the second innings. Earlier, in the league phase, Sarvate's 93-ball 89 and five wickets against Bengal had played a vital role in Vidarbha's innings victory.
 
 The tough men conquered the tough situation with utter calmness, again.
 
 
