LUDHIANA: There was huge rush of candidates to file papers on the last day of filing of nominations for MC polls.

 Maximum nominations (22) were filed from ward number 31 and least number of nominations (2) was received for ward number 67.
 
 Meanwhile, 462 candidates filed nominations on Wednesday, taking the number to 754. The elections will take place for 95 wards of the city on February 24.
 
 From ward number 67, Mamta Ashu, wife of   Bharat Bhushan Ashu, is contesting the elections and will face opposition from SAD candidate Opinder Kaur. However, AAP candidate   could not file her nominations due to documentation issue.
 
 AAP state general secretary   said the candidate from ward number 67 Bhavna Gupta did not have any property in her name, so she had attached affidavit along with her papers, but the officials refused to accept the same. The affidavit caused the delay and she could not file her nomination papers, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, returning officer   said they accepted nomination papers from every candidate who came to them and from ward number 67 they received nomination papers only from two candidates.
 
 For ward number 10, only three candidates have filed their nomination papers. From ward number 17, as many as 15 candidates have filed their nomination papers. Fourteen candidates are in race from ward numbers 44 and 32.
 
 The scrutiny of the documents will take place on February 15 and candidates can withdraw their names by February 16. The covering candidates for the actual candidates have also filed their nomination papers and the returning officers have asked the candidates to withdraw the nominations of their covering candidates after scrutiny otherwise they will be considered as independent candidates.
 
 Box: Parking woes
 
 As the candidates thronged various offices to file their nomination papers, it caused parking problems in many areas. At the mini secretariat, the candidates parked their vehicles haphazardly causing inconvenience to other visitors as well as the officers who could not find space to park their vehicles. The road from DC office till RTA office and in front of ADC (D) office was full of vehicles.
 
