Kolkata: The   poll process resumed in   on Monday, as mandated by a Calcutta High Court directive to enable opposition candidates to file their nomination papers, but the spectre of political violence, too, returned to haunt rural Bengal along with the resumption of the poll process.

 Two persons died — one of gunshot wounds on the outskirts of Birbhum’s Suri and another in North 24-Parganas’ Swarupnagar — and opposition supporters and even lawmakers were attacked at several places as Trinamool supporters “guarded” government offices to prevent opposition candidates from filing their papers.
 
 The Trinamool, too, faced the heat in some pockets — like in North 24-Parganas and Jalpaiguri districts — but the open use of firearms and other weapons and the day-long violence on the streets in so many districts prompted opposition parties to allege the extra day of filing papers had served no purpose and question the wisdom of having a one-day vote process as sought by the Trinamool.
 
 Day-long turf battles were fought in districts like Birbhum, Malda, Murshidabad, North and South 24-Parganas that were, ironically, the same districts that witnessed much of the violence during the first round of the nomination process, which had prompted the opposition to go to the judiciary to ask for more time to file papers. These were also the places about which the State Election Commission had sent alerts to district administrations, warning of violence.
 
 The extra day of nominations may not have achieved much, if one goes by Birbhum’s example. Figures with the district administration showed the BJP (the main opposition in Birbhum) had filed three nominations for zilla parishad, eight for panchayat samiti and 38 for gram panchayat seats and the   three nominations for zilla parishad, five for panchayat samiti and 31 for gram panchayat seats. 
 
 But both the BJP and the CPM called this a “hoax”, saying most of the candidates were Trinamool dummies.
 
 The SEC failed to remove the uncertainty over poll dates either as it spent Monday “collecting reports” from district administrations on the ground situation and how well they were equipped to handle a one-day vote. Opposition parties have already demanded that the vote be spread over multiple days or the SEC ask for security forces from outside Bengal as the state’s own police force may be too thinly stretched to secure all 58,000 booths on a single day of polling.
 
 The Trinamool, on the other hand, has demanded a one-day poll and a quick end to the process because of three factors: the one-month long fasting month of Ramzan (which starts in the middle of May and ends in the middle of June), monsoon (which should be well on its way by the middle of June) and the original poll notification (which says the entire process should end by mid-May).
 
 The SEC will meet representatives of all parties and state panchayat department officer on special duty Saurabh Das on Tuesday but it may be veering round to either a one- or a two-day vote in the middle of May.
 
 Monday’s gunshot death in Karidhya village on the outskirts of Suri led to some nasty “body politics” between the Trinamool and the BJP. Trinamool leader and state urban development minister Firhad Hakim claimed “Dilawar Shiekh” was killed by the BJP’s contract killers. But BJP leader Shamik Bhattacharya claimed that “Dildar Sheikh” was their man and general secretary of the BJP’s state minority morcha. The Trinamool claimed the dead in North 24-Parganas’ Swarupnagar was killed by CPM toughs but the latter refuted the charge.
 
 Lawmakers did not escape the heat either. Malda (South)   MP Abu Hasem Khan Chowdhury had a close shave in Murshidabad’s Shamsherganj after a bomb that was thrown at his car missed the target; the Congress veteran was leading 60 candidates to the local block office for filing nominations. Congress MLA Manoj Chakrabarty was assaulted on Bengal Congress chief Adhir Chowdhury’s home turf, Behrampore, and Kushmandi RSP MLA Narmada Roy was hit on the head while leading candidates to the block office; he was hospitalised. Another Left leader, former CPI MLA Chitta Das Thakur, was attacked in East Midnapore.
 
 
