JAIPUR: The National Highway Authority of India ( ) will take up the construction of international standard underpass beneath the Walled City area, proposed between Sanganeri Gate and Jorawar Singh Gate. 

 For the same, the NHAI will only appoint the consultant to prepare the detailed project report (DPR) for the project. 
 
 Earlier, after   ( ) prepared pre-feasibility report to decongest traffic in Walled City, the Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL) has incorporated the project under smart city mission.
 
 The JSCL also short-listed the consultant firm to prepare the DPR. However, the NHAI will now invite the tenders to prepare the report. 
 
 JSCL, chief executive officer, Ravi Jain, said, “We have appointed a consultant to prepare the DPR of the project. But, directions have been given not to initiate work as NHAI will invite the tenders to prepare DPR.” 
 
 The NHAI decided to take up construction work after chief minister Vasundhara Raje and chief secretary N C Goel requested the Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi. Raje, in her budget speech also mentioned that the international-level underpass would act as a catalyst to restore old city’s charm . Also, it would de-congest and reduce the pollution manifolds in the Walled City. 
 
 An official informed, a private consultant agency appointed by JMRC for the pre-feasibility report that was submitted in November 2016, mentioned constructing a 2.3-km subway between Sanganeri Gate and Jorawar Singh Gate. However, officials assume the length of the tunnels will be increased to 4-km.
 
 As per initial proposal, this subway is proposed would be 17 metres below the ground. The entry will be near Ramniwas Bagh parking and exit near Jal Mahal. It will be a two-lane tunnel. Under the project, two additional tunnels will also be constructed for parking. 
 
 A JMRC said , in the preliminary , report two-wheelers and cars were proposed to be passed through underpass. This would reduce the vehicular traffic drastically. “Commuters, especially tourists, can often be seen stuck in traffic jams in the area for hours. Commuters going to Hawa Mahal, Jantar Mantar and Amber have to pass through Sanganeri Gate and Jorawar Singh Gate via Badi Chaupar, and these are one of the busiest routes in Walled City. The commuters who do not want to visit tourist destination can directly reach to the National Highway using the tunnel.” an official said.
 
 
