COIMBATORE: Students appeared for the public examination this year need not wait anxiously in front of the computers to know the results on the government website. Soon after the results are declared, mark list would be land in their mobile phones as SMS.

 Though SMS mark list system was followed last year, only those opted for it received the same. This year, all the students appeared for the exams would get the SMS mark list. The decision to send the subject wise marks to the registered mobile phone numbers of the students was taken by the school education department as part of its reforms to incorporate digitalisation.
 
 As many as 8.66 lakh students have appeared for Class XII public exams this year, while 8 lakh have taken Class XI and 9.6 lakh, Class X exams. School education department officials said they have collected a database of the students’ mobile phone numbers.
 
 “Earlier, students had to send a message with their nominal roll number to get their marks as a message. This year, they will automatically get their marks in their mobile phones,” said a senior official, who is incharge of conducting examinations and announcing the results, with the Directorate of Government Examination.
 
 Last year, we could not collect the phone numbers of all the students as it was decided at the end of the academic year. But this year, we have managed to obtain the details of all the students, the official said. “This will reduce the anxiety of the students as they needn’t wait long for the results,” the official added. 
 
 From this year, all the schools would also be given direct access to the results of their students, the official said. The schools could view the collective results of their students on the website using their login id and password.
 
 “No longer CDs loaded with results and tentative mark lists will be sent to the office of Chief Educational Officer (CEO) of every district,” the official said. This move would ensure that the results were not leaked ahead of the announcement time as the website would go live only during the announcement time, the official added.
 
 Moreover, the schools could not view the results of the students not enrolled with them, said an official with the office of CEO, explaining that in a way, this would ensure the privacy of the students.
 
 The students could also view their results using their nominal roll on the website as well, the official said. 
 
 Welcoming the move, R Vishalakshi of Tamil Nadu Private Matriculation School Association said the schools would be able to get the results on time, without any delay.
 
 Earlier, school officials had to collect the results from the custodian centre. And often they had to wait at the centres for hours due to manual operational delays.
 
 
