NEW DELHI: Almost a year after the idea of creating a truly integrated oil behemoth by merging state-run giants was conceived in the budget, flagship explorer   on Saturday said it will acquire the government's holding in the country's third-largest refiner-marketer   for nearly Rs 37,000 crore to complete the first consolidation exercise in the public sector energy space. 

 The "strategic sale" will see ONGC pay Rs 36,915 crore in cash for the government's over 51% stake in HPCL. This works out to 473.97 a share, which is a premium of 14% over Friday's closing price of the   scrip. It is also "reasonably higher" than the government's own valuation. 
 
 Based on Friday's closing price of 416.55, HPCL has a market capitalisation of about Rs 63,475 crore. At this price, the government's stake is worth Rs 32,442 crore. ONGC has been exempted from making an open offer as the government is the owner of both the companies. 
 
 The transaction, to be completed by the end of this month, will help the Centre cross its disinvestment target by over Rs 20,000 crore and end the year with a record Rs 90,000 crore sell-off proceeds. 
 
  
  
 
 With 10 weeks to go for the fiscal year to close, the deal will considerably ease the pressure on government finances and help the Centre close the year with a fiscal deficit which is not far from the budgeted level of 3.2% of GDP, sources said.
 
 But at the same time, officials said the transaction should not be seen through the fiscal prism as it comes with several synergies for both the public sector companies in addition to the possibility of merger of ONGC subsidiaries such as MRPL with HPCL in future. It will help HPCL directly source nearly two-thirds of its crude requirement from ONGC besides making them integrated energy players.
 
  After ONGC told the oil ministry of its decision to acquire HPCL, the government had started off talks by seeking about 1 lakh crore on ground that an open sale would fetch no less. ONGC's own valuation advisor E&Y had put HPCL's valuation at Rs 475 a share plus a premium for getting the controlling stake. The 'outside' advise that ONGC sought from Citi put the price at Rs 500 per share. 
 
 ONGC is expected to go for short-term borrowings to fund the acquisition. It also has cash reserves of about Rs 12,000 crore. Sources said ONGC has already taken board approval for raising the borrowing limit to Rs 35,000 crore from Rs 25,000 crore. The company can also draw upon loan commitments from domestic and foreign lenders aggregating nearly double the HPCL acquisition price for making the payment. 
 
  Announcing the deal in a tweet on Saturday, the finance ministry provided a perspective to the merger by pointing out a February 2016 review meeting where Prime Minister Narendra Modi "underlined the need of efficient management of government investments in central public sector enterprises (CPSEs)". 
 
  The government accordingly expanded the approach from of disinvestment to investment and public asset management. 
 
  "Accordingly, as part of investment management strategy, the Government of India decided to explore possibilities of consolidation, mergers and acquisitions within CPSE space. An announcement in this regard was also made by the finance minister in his Budget speech of 2017-18," it said. 
 
 The Cabinet had on July 19 last year, given an 'in-principle' approval to the said proposal and decided to set up an alternative mechanism under the finance minister to decide on the price, timing and the terms and conditions of the strategic sale.
 
 The acquisition will give ONGC, which accounts for 70% of India's domestic oil production, a substantial presence in refining and retail space with HPCL's 15,000 outlets. The company is expected to continue with the HPCL brand in retail and lubes. With a turnover of Rs 2,13,489 crore and profit of Rs 6,502 crore during 2016-17, HPCL ranks at 384th position in Fortune Global 500 and 48th place in Platts 250 Global Energy Companies. HPCL markets around 35.2 million tonnes of petroleum products with a market share of about 21% and is the number one lube marketer in the country. It has refineries at Mumbai and Visakhapatnam and a joint venture refinery at Bhatinda.
 
 HPCL also owns the biggest lubricant refinery in India and the second-largest cross-country product pipeline network of about 3,500 km. HPCL has a vast marketing network spread across the length and breadth of the country with terminals, depots, LPG bottling plants, lube blending plants, aviation fuel stations and around 15,000 petrol pumps.
 
 
