CHENNAI: More than a month after its launch, the government   testing lab has been carrying more pamphlets than food samples despite being fully equipped to check adulteration. The reason: Absence of a food analyst on board.

 The central government initiative,   on Wheels, was flagged off to check food adulteration at people’s doorstep and to spread awareness on hygiene.
 
 Since February, the vehicle has gone to three educational institutions and enlightened around 5,200 people on the dos and don’ts while handling food and how to check for adulteration at home. 
 
 However, despite being equipped to undertake 24 tests on milk, nine on edible oils, 17 on spices and 11 on other food samples, the lab is yet to achieve its potential owing to the absence of an experienced hand. Officials in the food safety department said it had been difficult to fill the post. The van, expected to cover Kancheepuram, Chennai and Tiruvallur, requires a food analyst and a technician. 
 
 “Very few applicants had the required qualification,” said a food safety official. Experienced analysts, on the other hand, are reluctant to shuttle among three districts. “We can’t afford to let someone with no experience handle the expensive equipment,” said the official. The vehicle along with the equipment cost around Rs40 lakh. The department is now mulling over outsourcing the job and maintenance of the lab to a private player. The Centre will bear the maintenance cost for five years.
 
 In Chennai, since 2012, of the 992 food samples lifted by food inspectors, 343 were found to be substandard and 132 unsafe, those with harmful bacteria, viruses, parasites or chemical substances.
 
 The department had tied up with residents’ associations to do rapid tests on food suspected to be adulterated in their neighbourhood, including checking for artificial ripening of fruits. The utility was expected to cut down the processing time taken for tests and to tide over the shortage of food safety inspectors.
 
 
