Nagpur: In yet another case of cruelty against animals, several stray dogs were poisoned to death in Kalamna. This is the second case of killing of strays in a week.

 On Wednesday morning, residents saw carcasses of strays scattered in the lanes of Mhada quarters in Kalamna. They immediately informed animal welfare organizations and Kalamna police station. “By the time we reached the spot, the carcasses were dumped near a garbage bin. Till now, we have found five of them,” said Smita Mire, founder of Save Speechless Organisation (SSO). Another dog, which was foaming at the mouth, was also spotted by the activists but escaped.
 
 Mire filed a complaint with Kalamna police station. Police sources informed a first information report (FIR) has been registered under sections of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act, 1960, and Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 While the FIR has been filed against unidentified person, activists suspect role of some locals. “A female resident would regularly feed strays and this was being objected to by the other residents. She suspects the latter poisoned the dogs,” said Mire. According to the resident, many strays have been poisoned in the past.
 
 Apart from this, roadside meat sellers are also under scanner. “On enquiring with locals, we found these sellers were also troubled by dogs as they would take their meat. The police should take statements from concerned people to find the accused,” said Arvind Kumar Raturi of King Cobra Organisation.
 
 Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) veterinary officer Dr Gajendra Mahalle said the post-mortem of the dogs will be performed. 
 
 This is not the first time strays have been poisoned to death in city. In February 2016, TOI had reported about the mass killing of stray dogs in Mahal. The carcasses of dogs were found scattered in different but connecting lanes of the area. Two days back, Shanti Nagar police had arrested two youths who had allegedly thrashed strays to death using an iron rod.
 
 Animal activists feel effective sterilization could help in controlling such “gruesome” incidents. Said Raturi, “The city is over-populated with strays and hence people are engaging in such cruel acts.” Stringent laws are also needed to control such incidents, said Mire. “In the Shanti Nagar case, the accused easily got bail. They just had to a pay Rs100. The central government should bring in stricter punishments,” she added.
 
 
