Ahmedabad: IPS officer and former investigator of the 2002 Naroda Gam massacre case, P L Mall, on Wednesday opposed the demand by persons accused in the case, to implicate him and have him tried for “his improper investigation”.

 The SIT court is hearing an application filed in 2015 by the accused persons, demanding that ex-IPS officer Rahul Sharma and investigating officer Mall be arraigned in the case for destruction of evidence. Eleven persons were killed at Naroda Gam during the riots of 2002.
 
 Mall’s advocate Amit Nair submitted that he had conducted the investigation in an honest and unbiased manner. He said the accused persons have either not understood the case details properly or are purposely misleading the court by suppressing certain facts.
 
 In his reply, Mall said that he had conducted a thorough probe in this case and the issue of the call records was dealt with with the utmost sincerity. He explained that the data he recovered from Sharma was not in the form of the original CDs obtained from service providers in 2002. But the data had not been tampered with and the FSL had authenticated that. Hence, he mentioned ‘Asal’ (original) on the CDs seized from Sharma, which the accused persons may be taking in a different sense.
 
 On the accusation of inaction on allegedly false affidavits filed before the Supreme Court, Mall said that there was an inconsistency in the witnesses’ versions in those affidavits, but it was his duty to supply everything to the court, which will evaluate the evidence.
 
 Mall also faces allegation of not acting on accused No. 83 Vinu Mavji Koli’s complaint, who alleged that he was assaulted by a father-son duo, who were set ablaze by the mob during the day-long violence on February 28, 2002. Advocate Nair argued that Koli’s version was hearsay and since the father and son had died, Koli’s complaint was already infructuous.
 
 Meanwhile, Sharma also appeared before the court as party-in-person. He argued that since his revelation about the riots CDs was before an inquiry commission, he enjoys immunity from prosecution. He replied in the negative when the court asked him if it could order his prosecution on the basis of evidence before it.
 
 Further hearing in this case is posted for April 16.
 
 
