NOIDA: Most people spending nights on the footpath in the chilling winter are not even aware of the makeshift shelter the government had built for homeless people in 2015.

 The shelter, or rain basera, has been built in the   compound, far from the six Metro stations where most of the homeless people are usually found. It can house at least 100 people, officials said.
 
 Told about the shelter, Ramesh, a 50-year-old man who begs to eke out a living, said he was not willing to shift because of the distance. Ramesh came to Noida with his family from Agra two years ago.
 
 Ramesh, whose one hand is disabled, said he had been sleeping on the footpath ever since he came to Noida. He has a makeshift tent, which is fit to accommodate two-three persons, an earthen stove to cook food and a few blankets to cover himself and his family at a time the mercury is hovering around the 6 degree mark.
 
 His wife Geeta (45) said the shelter should have been made near the metro stations, where most of the homeless people stay.
 
 “Most beggars, balloon-sellers and other homeless people are found near the metro stations. No one ever told us about a rain basera situated at the stadium,” she said.
 
 Baby, who had come to Noida from Chhapra in Bihar around a year back with her family, also didn’t know about the shelter.
 
 A 60-year-old physically challenged man, Sunder Lal, said around 35-40 people come to stay at the shelter every night.
 
 “We get ample blankets and it is quite warm. But most of the labourers who come from   to spend the night here create a nuisance after getting drunk. They get into fights and disturb other people,” he said.
 
 A guard on duty outside the   said: “We are usually not strict with the people here. However, at times, some people get into fights after getting drunk. A few days back, we had to call the police because of one such fight.”
 
 Sunder, a cobbler, reaches the shelter around 3pm every day and waits till 7pm, when it opens. Sunder said the situation at the night shelter was not conducive enough for women.
 
 “Some of the men get into fights after getting drunk. How will women come here? There was a separate enclosure for women in the rain basera, which was inside the stadium. Women used to come there earlier, not now,” Sunder said.
 
 R K Mishra, assistant CEO of  , said the administration could build a separate enclosure for homeless people near a Metro station.
 
 “This spot (near the stadium) had been decided earlier. We can make another one. As far as women are concerned, we can make arrangements for them too if they come to stay in the shelter. So far, we have not received any information about any woman willing to stay here,” he said.
 
 Mishra claimed that drunk people were not allowed inside the night shelter.
 
 
