PUNE: March this year, in a repeat of last year, witnessed a sharp rise in the value and number of digital transactions.

 
  
 
 The prevailing cash crunch being experienced in some parts of the country appears to have contributed to the increase. The currency in circulation has also increased compared to last March, but hoarding of cash by individuals, and the government’s inaction in flushing out said cash hoards, has contributed to the rise in digital transactions. 
 
 However, experts believe that a sustained gain in digital transactions continues to be a difficult task to achieve, and that once cash is back in circulation,   will see a dip.
 
 “Somehow, digital transactions have not got a push beyond a certain level, and are almost always dependent on cash availability in the system. The government needs to think out of the box to promote digital transactions,” said a financial technology expert from a bank.
 
 Data shows that there was a sharp spike in consumer-facing digital transactions in March 2018, compared to even January 2018. Digital transactions across NEFT, mobile banking, usage of cards at swipe machines and issuance of cheques showed an considerable increase (see graphic).
 
 Similar was the case in March 2017, when digital transactions peaked in value and volume. The same could not be replicated in the months that followed, including the festive month of October. 
 
 The prevailing cash crunch provides some hope that digital transactions will have remained high in April and May, but it remains to be seen if these gains can be sustained, feel experts. They say the gains can be sustained if the government implements the “no transaction charge at swipe machines”, rule and enforces stricter digital security laws.
 
 
 
 Many financial managers feel that there are too many digital channels (like several e-wallets and the government’s Unified Payments Interface or  ) and this ends up confusing people. Senior bankers believe that at some point soon, there will be some consolidation in several existing digital channels.
 
 According to the data, the currency in circulation has increased continuously over the past few months. In March this year, it even breached pre-demonetisation levels of currency in circulation. This was achieved even as the   has not released new notes in the Rs2,000 denomination. 
 
 “We haven’t got new Rs2,000 notes since January this year. We are managing with what we get from customers and mostly old Rs100 and Rs500 … The RBI issuance is very sporadic,” said a currency manager with a public sector bank.
 
 Even as the currency in circulation has yet to reach an all-time high, hoarding among individuals is causing the sudden and continuous cash crunch, feel currency managers.
 
 “It has become easy to hoard now, with the Rs2,000 denomination notes. Now will be the right time to demonetise the note but it is not clear if the government will do so as there are several elections over the next one year,” said a currency manager working for another public sector bank.
 
 It was in November 2016 when the central government had, overnight, declared the existing Rs1,000 and Rs500 denomination notes “illegal tender”. The government has since introduced a new Rs2,000 note, a Rs500 note as well as a Rs200 currency note. 
 
 
