Chandigarh: A day after the Supreme Court modified its earlier order and made it optional for the multiplexes and cinema halls to play the   before the screening of films, the managements of various city-based multiplexes are waiting for the directions from the local administration before implementing the same.

 The Supreme Court’s 2016 order of making it mandatory for the cinema halls and multiplexes to play the National Anthem before every show had sparked nationwide debate. However, when asked, most of the officials of the city-based multiplexes seemed to be in no mood to alter the practice before they receive any direction from the local administration.
 
 A senior official at the multiplex division of Piccadilly Square mall, Sector 34, said, “We know that the Supreme Court has issued an order and has made playing the National Anthem optional at the theatres. But, we will not do anything about it until we receive the official written orders from the district commissioner. We need the DC’s order to discontinue the practice. Even when this practice of playing National Anthem was made mandatory, we started playing it after we had received the orders from the DC.”
 
 S K Sharma, general manager, Neelam Theater, Sector 17 said, “People usually do not stand up while the National Anthem is being played at the theatres. They had come to enjoy the movie so it was inconvenient for them to stand up. It is unfair to put them in that situation. But I think we will continue to play the National Anthem because that is how it has been going on so far.”
 
 When contacted the officials of PVR cinemas at Elante and Centra mall, Industrial Area, said they have not received any internal communication from the higher management on this matter. A PVR official under the condition of anonymity said, “It is too early for us to say anything on this, because the order has just been issued on Tuesday. We have not received any directions from the head office in this regard. But the practice has been going on so far and the National Anthem is being played so far.”
 
 Similarly, Vishal Sharma, assistant manager, Wave Cinemas, Chandigarh, said they have been playing the National Anthem so far. He also said they have been waiting for the official written communication from the DC.
 
 Meanwhile, the booking clerk of Kiran Theater, Sector 22, makes an interesting point. “We cannot take any decision in this regard on our own because all our film reels come from Mumbai and are already embedded with the National Anthem. Hence, we cannot alter it on our own,” said Omprakash.
 
 
