GENEVA: India aims to win its war on TB by 2025, but the goal seems too far-fetched. With an estimated 1.2 lakh detections, India reported the highest number of childhood TB cases (0-14 years) in 2016, according to a report presented on Wednesday by the International Union Against TB and Lung Disease at the ongoing World Health Assembly in Geneva. China, second on the list, reported less than half of India’s incidence, leaving little room for the population argument.

 
 The report, ‘The Silent Epidemic: A Call to Action Against Child TB’, stated that less than 2% of the 3.6 lakh children with latent TB in India who are eligible for preventive therapy as per WHO guidelines actually got it. An estimated one million children the world over develop TB every year, of whom nearly one in four dies. The report said a staggering 90% of children suffering from TB worldwide are left untreated and India is no exception. The crisis is underlined by the fact that despite childhood TB accounting for 10% of the overall incidence, it contributes to 16% of deaths globally. The findings assume significance given that TB would be discussed for the first time by the heads of state at the UN General Assembly in September.
 
 “Within global public health, it is an open secret that health systems neglect children with TB because children are less contagious than adults, and because the standard tools used to diagnose TB work less well in children. Many governments, therefore, classify children as a low priority,” said Dr Paula Fujiwara, scientific director of the union. She said that children with TB rarely die, including those suffering from the multi-drug resistant form, when they get the standard treatment on time.
 
 The situation gets particularly grimmer for children under the age of five if they are left untreated. The union report states that young children can suffer from complications and spread of the disease outside of lungs, such as bones, the brain and joints, making it even more challenging to treat. Besides the hurdles around prevention and treatment of the disease, there is also the challenge of making a definitive diagnosis. 
 
 “Since children find it difficult to produce or give sputum, alternative options such as gastric lavage (stomach wash) or bronchoscopy has to be done to get respiratory secretions,” said Dr Tanu Singhal, consultant paediatric infectious disease expert at Kokilaben Ambani Hospital. With results often yielding false negatives, global experts have called for more diagnostic innovations, keeping the needs of children in mind. Additionally, Dr Singhal said the absence of child-friendly formulations, mainly those to treat MDR-TB, add to the challenges to treat childhood TB.
 
 Yet, Union health minister Dr  , who is currently attending the Geneva assembly, said that defeating TB by 2025 is a practical dream. “We have to aggressively go for a movement. We have put all systems in place in terms of screening, diagnosis and treatment. Every district knows what they have to do,” he said.
 
 Putting the onus on states, he said it was up to them to optimally implement the programmes. He said that while Bedaquiline is now a part of MDR regimen in India and no longer an experimental drug, Delamanid would be procured under a conditional access programme.
 
 But, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, deputy director-general at WHO and the country’s leading TB expert, said India must scale up preventive therapy. Citing the living conditions in Mumbai slums, she said, “The first step has to be to trace household contacts, who are at a much bigger risk, and start treating them.” She said the time has come to look into shorter regimes for preventive treatment. Previously, an isoniazid-based six-month regime to treat latent TB (one has the bacteria, but not the active disease) was widely used. “A shorter regimen such as 12 weekly doses would mean better adherence,” she said. Dr Swaminathan said India could follow the example of China, which has drastically reduced the adult TB burden, which in turn brought down cases of child TB.
 
 
