Visakhapatnam: Andhra University will introduce an upgraded curriculum for its engineering students, both on and off campus, from the next academic year (2018-19). A boards of studies meeting, convened by the varsity on Monday, agreed upon adopting the All India Council for Technical Education’s (AICTE) model curriculum from the next academic year. However, the curriculum may be tweaked based on local needs before the session begins.

 The revised model curriculum, which is expected to give an impetus to the quality engineering education, has reduced the number of credits to 160 from the earlier 220 credits. The curriculum comes with a core, comprising of basic sciences and engineering, having a focus on fundamentals. Students can choose electives both from their core discipline as well as from cross disciplines. Fourteen credits out of 160 have been allocated to summer internship, which has again been made a compulsory part of the curriculum.
 
 Andhra University vice-chancellor Prof G Nageswara Rao elaborated on the revised curriculum and how it will be advantageous for the engineering students . “During the boards of studies (BoS) meeting yesterday (Monday), the model curriculum of the AICTE was discussed and it has been decided to adopt the curriculum. After taking the approval of the academic senate in March, we will officially adopt it (curriculum),” said Prof Rao.
 
 Prof PS Avadhani, principal, Andhra University College of Engineering, informed that after the BoS meeting, they asked each department heads to come up with their own feedback by February 25. “Later, we will work on how best we can adopt the curriculum and what changes need to be done,” said Prof Avadhani.
 
 A three-week mandatory induction program for first year students is part of the curriculum to make them get acquainted with the college environment. Compulsory internship is also part of the new curriculum. A range of credits from 150 to 160 is mandatory to be eligible to get an undergraduate degree in engineering. A student will also be eligible to get an undergraduate degree with honours or additional minor engineering, if he/she completes an additional 20 credits. These credits can be acquired through Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs). Similarly, model curriculum for postgraduate courses in engineering shall have 68 credits.
 
 
