Ludhiana: A helpdesk to solve residents’ grievances, CCTV cameras to enhance security and a dog pound to address the problem of stray dogs are some of the different promises which candidates contesting MC polls have made to residents this time.

 Besides talking about the basic issues of water supply, sewerage, roads and streetlights during their campaigns, candidates have included some other important issues taking note of problems of their particular areas in their election manifesto.
 
 Advocate by profession, Mehak Tinna, who is Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) candidate from ward number 69, in her manifesto has promised to resolve all the issues haunting the ward. Tinna said first of all, they would set up a helpdesk where public issues will be redressed so that they don’t need to visit MC offices.
 
 She would also install CCTV cameras in every corner of the ward and replace old sewerage and water supply pipelines with newer ones to provide clean drinking water to the residents.
 
 Tinna said the stray dog menace is a major problem, not only in the ward but also in the entire city. So she will get a dog pound constructed to tackle this menace. “One of the most important things will be to maintain the register of sanitation employees appointed for the ward so as to keep a check on proper cleaning of the ward,” she said.
 
 Professor Komal Gurnoor Singh, 26-year-old AAP candidate from ward number 66, said he is contesting the election to bring a transformation in the system how the corporation runs. Very basic issues have not been resolved in the past 26 years since the MC came into existence, he said.
 
 Gurnoor said he is seeking only one year from the voters for complete transformation of the ward, so that next time he could ask for their votes.
 
 Roopamdeep Kaur Malhi, a BJP candidate from ward number 91, said there are two major issues in her ward –– rising crime cases and no home for aged people. She said a majority of women she met highlighted the problem of chain snatching and safety issues.
 
 “I have promised residents to install CCTV cameras which will be connected with police lines. Secondly, I would also get a senior citizen home constructed in her ward once she is elected as a councillor,” she said.
 
 Congress candidate from ward number 82 Gagandeep Bhalla said even though most of the area is developed, they have promised to develop Kitchlu Nagar as a model area of the city. He said they would take action against illegal constructions in the area and no new illegal building will be allowed to come up once they would bring one time settlement policy for the illegal structures.
 
 SAD candidate from ward number 36 Jagbir Sokhi said he has vision for the entire city. He said he believes in clean ward, clean city, which is why he has strictly stopped his supporters from pasting posters or banners in the ward. He said he will start door-to-door garbage collection in the ward and cleanliness will be the top priority. He said he will do efforts to uplift the economic status of the downtrodden.
 
 
