MUMBAI: Nine years ago, India wept for a cherubic two-year-old who was orphaned after terrorists stormed the Jewish religious centre on a late November evening in 2008 and gunned down his parents. On Tuesday, Moshe—now a bespectacled boy, about four feet tall and with a toothy grin—returned to  . 

 The 11-year-old spent two hours reliving his memories in the house where he lived with his parents, rabbi Gavriel Holtzberg and Rivka Rosenberg. “Shalom...bahut khushi (I’m very happy),”   had said earlier, while speaking to media at Mumbai airport.
 
 Moshe’s paternal grandfather Nachman Holtzberg, 69 told TOI that the boy expressed a desire to live in Nariman House again someday after spending time there on Tuesday. “I like my room very much and I want to be back,” he told his grandfather when he saw the markings on the wall made by his mother to measure his height as he was growing up. 
 
 Moshe’s unannounced visit on Tuesday afternoon, before the scheduled one on Thursday with Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu, was an attempt to ease the 11-year-old into a space with a tragic past. Despite the grim reminders—walls scarred with bullet holes and blood stains, for Moshe’s family his visit was significant as “the beginning of something good,” said Moshe Holtzberg, his father’s younger brother who lives in New York.
 
 “Today is a milestone in a certain kind of closure. The answer to terrorism is today. When you see someone who was orphaned nine years ago, coming back to that place shows that terrorism will not win,” he said.
 
 It was a “quiet moment of taking it all in” for Moshe who spent two hours at the Jewish outreach centre walking through the living quarters on the top floors of the five-storey building where the room he lived in still bears his name in Hebrew.
 
 Holtzberg, his wife Frieda, 67, and younger son Moshe spoke to TOI at a Bene Israeli community meet organised at a school in Mazgaon later in the evening. “He took it very easy. Even I was surprised,” smiled Freida. “He probably didn’t grasp the overwhelming part of the emotions since his visit was arranged in a relaxed atmosphere but he said that he wants to come back to Chabad House and live there.” 
 
 Moshe, who now lives in Afula in northern Israel, arrived in Mumbai after an eight-hour flight from Tel Aviv accompanied by both sets of grandparents –Shimon and Yehudit Rosenberg (maternal) and Nachman and Frieda Holtzberg (paternal); his Indian nanny Sandra Samuel who had saved him; his paternal uncle Moshe and his psychologist, who Moshe has been visiting every Sunday for counselling since he returned to Israel aged two. “His psychologist was present at Chabad House today and feels that it could be that Moshe does have some sort of memory of what had happened in 2008,” added Freida. 
 
 Despite the painful memories, Moshe’s uncle indicated that the visit was an uplifting experience for the family. “We will fight terrorism with light and actions. Terror has been trying to divide nations – Jews, Muslims, Christians and Hindus. But today we see unity in Moshe coming back to this house and being welcomed by everyone,” he said.
 
 It wasn’t as easy for Frieda, though, to return to the site where her son had been slain. “It’s very hard to come back and see the place with bullet marks. We were here three years ago when the centre was partially rebuilt. Yet I’m happy to be here with Moshe,” she said. Both Nachman and Freida Holtzberg hope that Moshe will grow up to be “a good and religious boy” and return as a rabbi someday. “I thank God for his blessings that Moshe could return to Chabad House today and thank God for the miracle.” 
 
 Moshe, who is a student of yeshivah (a Jewish institution that focuses on the study of traditional religious texts) lives on a strict Kosher diet and “loves cucumber, French fries and schnitzels” which were part of the private lunch arranged for him at Chabad House on Tuesday afternoon along with “salad and rice”, said his paternal grandparents who are on a visitation program with Moshe while he lives with his maternal grandparents, his primary caretakers. 
 
 Back home in Afula, Moshe is like any other 11-year-old who likes to colour, play chess and study history. “Sometimes people treat Moshe like a   and at times as an adult. He’s actually somewhere in between and he’s doing pretty well at trying to be a normal part of civilization although he does realise that he’s different,” said his uncle.
 
 Moshe has learnt to count in Hindi, thanks to Sandra who spends time with him on weekends and teaches him about India. The words he has mastered are “Achha hai” and “Thik hai”, said his uncle. On Tuesday, he appeared with his hands folded in a “namaste” as he stood at the first floor window of the grey and gaunt Nariman House, on a crowded Hormustji Street, his smile radiating across the bullet-ridden lane. 
 
 Now a bespectacled boy of about four feet height and a toothy grin, Moshe returned to Chabad House in Colaba on Tuesday afternoon, nine years after terrorists stormed the Jewish religious centre on a late November evening in 2008 and gunned down his parents when he was barely two years old.
 
 The 11-year-old spent two hours reliving his memories in the house where he lived with his parents Rabbi Gavriel Holtzberg and Rivka Rosenberg.
 
 Moshe’s unannounced visit on Tuesday afternoon before the scheduled one on Thursday with Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu was an attempt to ease the 11-year-old into a space with a tragic past. Despite the grim reminders – walls scarred with bullet holes and blood stains, for Moshe’s family his visit was significant as “the beginning of something good.” said Moshe Holtzberg, his father’s younger brother who lives in New York.
 
 “Today is a milestone in a certain kind of closure. The answer to terrorism is today. When you see someone who was orphaned ten years ago, coming back to that place shows that terrorism will not win,” he said.
 
 It was a “quiet moment of taking it all in” for Moshe who spent two hours at the Jewish outreach centre walking through the living quarters on the top floors of the five-storey building where the room he lived in still bears his name in Hebrew and a side of the wall displays markings that his mother would make to measure his height as he was growing up.
 
 Moshe’s paternal grandfather Nachman Holtzberg, 69 told TOI that the boy expressed a desire to live in Nariman House again someday after spending time there on Tuesday. “‘I like my room very much and I want to be back,” he told his grandfather when he saw the markings on the wall made by his mother.
 
 Holtzberg, his wife Frieda Holtzberg, 67 and younger son Moshe spoke to TOI at a Bene Israeli community meet organized at a school in Mazgaon later in the evening. “He took it very easy. Even I was surprised,” smiled Freida. “He probably didn’t grasp the overwhelming part of the emotions since his visit was arranged in a relaxed atmosphere but he said that he wants to come back to the Chabad House and live there.”
 
 Moshe, who now lives in Afula in northern Israel, arrived in Mumbai after an eight-hour flight from Tel Aviv accompanied by both sets of grandparents –Shimon and Yehudit Rosenberg (maternal) and Nachman and Frieda Holtzberg (paternal); his Indian nanny Sandra Samuel who had saved him; his paternal uncle Moshe; his psychologist who Moshe has been visiting every Sunday for counselling since he returned to Israel aged two and Oren Rosenfeld, an Israeli film-maker who is documenting Mumbai Jews. “His psychologist was present at Chabad House today and feels that it could be that Moshe does have some sort of memory of what had happened in 2008,” added Freida.
 
 Despite the painful memories, Moshe’s uncle indicated that the visit was an uplifting experience for the family. “We will fight terrorism with light and actions. Terror has been trying to divide nations – Jews, Muslims, Christians and Hindus. But today we see unity in Moshe coming back to this house and being welcomed by everyone,” he said.
 
 It wasn’t as easy for Frieda, though, to return to the site where her son had been slain. “It’s very hard to come back and see the place with bullet marks. We were here three years ago when the centre was partially rebuilt. Yet I’m happy to be here with Moshe,” she said. Both Nachman and Freida Holtzberg hope that Moshe will grow up to be “a good and religious boy” and return as a rabbi someday. “I thank God for his blessings that Moshe could return to Chabad House today and thank God for the miracle.” 
 
 Moshe who is a student of yeshivah (a Jewish institution that focuses on the study of traditional religious texts) lives on a strict Kosher diet and “loves cucumber, French fries and schnitzels” which were part of the private lunch arranged for him at the Chabad House on Tuesday afternoon along with “salad and rice”, said his paternal grandparents who are on a visitation program with Moshe while he lives with his maternal grandparents, his primary caretakers.
 
 Back home in Afula Moshe is like any other 11-year-old who likes to colour, play chess and study history. “Sometimes people treat Moshe like a baby and at times as an adult. He’s actually somewhere in between and he’s doing pretty well at trying to be a normal part of civilization although he does realise that he’s different.”
 
 Baby Moshe has learnt to count in Hindi, thanks to Sandra who spends time with him on weekends and teaches him about India. The words he has mastered are “Achha hai” and “Thik hai”, said his Uncle, much like the state in which he appeared with his hands folded in a “namaste” as he stood at the first floor window of the grey and gaunt Nariman House, on a crowded Hormustji Street, his smile radiating across the bullet-ridden lane. 
 
 
