MUMBAI: The terrace where 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro stood had been completely covered, the   panel probing the   fire that killed 14 found on inspection of the premises. However,  , fire officer   had given a noobjection certificate to 1Above by attaching backdated photographs to show the terrace was open.

 If Patil’s role is established, it would be an indication of official complicity. One assistant divisional fire officer and four other civic officials were suspended immediately after the incident. Patil, who was arrested on Saturday night, was however not among them.
 
 “It is practically impossible to construct such a large terrace covering within such a short time as it was totally refurbished on the date of the incident (December 29). It appears very clearly that either the photos were backdated and taken when this structure was not constructed or he (Patil) did not visit the site and trusted the photographs submitted by the owner of the restaurant. In both cases he has failed to perform his duty as expected,” the municipal commissioner said in his report submitted to CM   on January 18.
 
 The inquiry report said Patil had attached pictures showing that the terrace where patrons were serviced had no cover. But “the entire part (of the) terrace in possession of 1Above was found to be fully covered with compartments made by M.S. (Mild Steel) Frames. These compartments and the entire terrace of 1Above was made sound-proof providing sound-proof material sandwiches (sic) between asbestos sheets from both sides,” the report stated.
 
 The terrace was accessible through a small passage near the lift which was also covered by an arch made of steel frame, which the probe panel suspected may have been used as entry to the terrace portion in possession of 1Above.
 
 Unauthorized toilets were found to have been erected on the terrace, and it also had all the arrangements for storing materials required for the resto-bars.
 
 The fire broke out after flying embers from the lighted charcoal segree came into contact with the combustible cloth material used for the curtain in Mojo’s Bistro and very rapidly spread to the unauthorized, highly combustible thatched roof of 1Above, the report had said.
 
 
