BATHINDA: A clash was averted on Friday between   followers and members of Sikh organizations over the sect followers organizing ‘naam charcha’ (religious congregation) at a house in Natt village near Talwandi Sabo town of Bathinda district. Police intervened and stopped the dera followers from holding the congregation.

 It is for the first time since the dera head   was convicted in rape cases on August 25, 2017, that the Sirsa-based sect’s followers tried to hold discourse here. The congregation was to be held at the residence of a dera follower Major Singh following the birth of his son a few days ago.
 
  had been objecting to holding of ‘naam charcha’ since May 2007, when the dera head had allegedly worn an attire similar to the 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh’s. A case of hurting religious sentiments was registered against Gurmeet at Bathinda, in which he was acquitted later.
 
 On getting information about ‘naam charcha’, a police party reached there and asked Major’s family not to hold the congregation. Meanwhile, some Sikh youths also reached there and objected to the discourse. Police brought out nearly two dozen persons assembled for ‘naam charcha’ and took them to Talwandi Sabo station to avert the clash.
 
 Bathinda unit chief of   (Amritsar) Parminder Singh said, “When got to know about dera followers restarting the ‘naam charcha’ so we reached there. Police took the dera followers to Talwandi Sabo police station. We condemn the administration’s role in allowing the congregation which may create tension.”
 
 Takht Damdama Sahib jathedar Giani   said police and civil administration should ensure that religious sentiments of Sikhs were not hurt by holding of the ‘naam charcha’, which might create tension.
 
 Dera follower Major said, “We had simply assembled to share happiness over the birth of my son. We wanted to remember the almighty and not to hurt sentiments of anyone.”
 
 When contacted, Bathinda SSP Naveen Singla said ‘naam charcha’ was to be organized by dera followers but when Sikh youths assembled at the spot, both groups were separated to avoid any law and order problem.
 
 
