MUMBAI: Thousands of ordinary Sindhis who live in community colonies are hoping that the state government’s decision to declare their land as freehold will improve their quality of life or hasten redevelopment. The complexes were built after land was allotted to immigrants who arrived from Pakistan, having lost all their wealth and lands overnight.

 The Thadomal   owns the vast   in   and the   in  . Trustee   said, “The government's decision is good news, certainly. It is not as if repair work or redevelopment was hampered earlier. In fact, we are being approached by builders to develop Shahani Colony. But the transfer of land to freehold status will increase the value of the land. That is my assessment as a layperson.” There are approximately 250 flats in Shahani Colony housing 1,000 residents, while another 60 flats with 240 people are located in Chembur’s Sindhi Colony.
 
 An old-time resident of Shahani Colony said that affluent Sindhi families moved to bigger apartments decades ago. “We are here since 1975. The homes here range from 200 sq ft to 530 sq ft. They are not in good shape, but whenever repairs are needed, we pay half the amount and the Shahani Trust pays the other half,” he said. Another housing colony in Chembur belongs to the Sindhi Immigrant Housing Society. Its secretary Sunder Vazirani said Tuesday’s decision did not apply to them “since they had already converted the land to freehold status after paying the requisite fee to the collector way back in 1948.”
 
 “There are 160 plots. Of these, old bungalows were replaced by buildings once their elderly owners sold and left to be with their NRI children. This is perhaps the costliest piece of real estate in Chembur now,” said fruit merchant Shrichand Bajaj. Residents and shopkeepers of this colony say they are still tied to the old pugree system. They wish the new move could improve their lives. “Several homeowners and shopowners like me were duped in 1982. We paid money for society share certificates but these certificates were later taken back and we found we’d been declared tenants on our own property,” said an elderly shopkeeper. “Even now, NoC for transfer or sale is given by the trust. One builder we chose for redevelopment is facing roadblocks.”
 
