Filottrano:   ( ) claimed victory on the stage organized in the memory of  . 

 
 
 After losing his GC hopes in a crash on stage 2, today Yates rode away from the peloton on the Muro (wall) of Filottrano to steal an uphill victory away from   ( ). 
 
 The World Champion had to instead settle for second while third placed   ( ) dethroned Damiano Caruso (BMC Racing Team) from the overall lead thanks to the time bonus.
 
 
 
 1 - Adam Yates (Mitchelton - Scott) 178km in 4h16’35”, average speed 41.623kph
 
 2 - Peter Sagan (Bora - Hansgrohe) at 7”
 
 3 - Michał Kwiatkowski (Team Sky) at 7”
 
 
 
 
 1 - Michał Kwiatkowski (Team Sky) 
 
 2 - Damiano Caruso (BMC Racing Team) at 3”
 
 3 - Mikel Landa (Movistar Team) at 23”
 
 
 
 
 Maglia Azzurra (blue), general classification leader, sponsored by Gazprom - Michał Kwiatkowski (Team Sky) 
 
 Maglia Arancione (orange), sprinter classification leader, sponsored by Sportful - Jacopo Mosca (Wilier Triestina - Selle Italia)
 
 Maglia Verde (green), King of the Mountains classification leader, sponsored by Snello Rovagnati - Nicola Bagioli (Nippo - Vini Fantini - Europa Ovini)
 
 Maglia Bianca (white), young rider general classification leader, sponsored by FIAT - Tiesj Benoot (Lotto Soudal) 
 
 
 Stage 5 winner Adam Yates said in the press conference: “I was feeling pretty good the other day on the steep climb [second on stage 3]. In climbs like this, you just go hard and give as much as you can. I tried to attack after my teammates positioned me well at the bottom of the hill. All I could do was to attack. It fell into place. I don’t have a sprint to beat Sagan, I had to go away. I didn’t know Michele Scarponi personally. I never spoke to him. But it was an emotional day for many guys in the peloton. It’s just a shame he’s not here anymore. Every day you go out training and you don’t know if you’ll come back. Also at races, anything can happen. We can only hope that nothing bad will happen.”
 
 Race leader Michał Kwiatkowski said: “We definitely knew that stage could suit riders like Peter Sagan. We were almost 100% sure that Bora - Hansgrohe would control, so I could see an opportunity for myself if I went with the mentality of winning the stage. Yates was away and I was not able to beat Sagan but the three seconds bonus I got are very important. Hopefully, we won’t have any more bad luck like yesterday with Geraint Thomas and we’ll be defending this jersey in the time trial on Tuesday. I wasn’t aiming at being in my best shape at Tirreno-Adriatico - my priority was to prepare for the classics - but it’s an opportunity not to be missed if I can win the overall here.”
 
 Best young rider Tiesj Benoot said: “My plan was to go after the steep part but Yates was already gone. Sagan still had three teammates so I decided to wait. I had good legs again but I couldn’t close the gap. GC is still very close but I don’t like the time trial in San Benedetto del Tronto very much.”
 
 King of the Mountains Nicola Bagioli said: “After breaking away for three days in a row, I wanted to have a quiet day in the bunch, so I just had to make sure that my rival Jacopo Mosca didn’t escape. Mathematically, I’ve already won the mountains classification.”
 
 Points classification leader Jacopo Mosca said: “To make a breakaway, you need the legs. Since neither Bagioli nor myself made it, it became a little quieter day for us although the speed of the peloton was very high. To beat Peter Sagan in the points classification, tomorrow I need to score 10 points on the way.”
 
 
 
 
 Third stage podium for both Adam Yates and Michał Kwiatkowski at Tirreno-Adriatico. The Englishman was third at the Terminillo last year and second in Trevi two days ago. The Pole was second at Arezzo in 2014 and third at Cepagatti in 2016. It’s also Kwiatkowski’s third time to take the lead of Tirreno-Adriatico, as he did it at Prati di Tivo in 2013 (for one day) and Arezzo in 2014 (for two days).
 
 17th stage podium for Peter Sagan at Tirreno-Adriatico. Results divided across seven wins, seven second places and three third places.
 
 For the first time since 1989, there have been five changes of leadership in as many stages at Tirreno-Adriatico: Caruso, Bevin, Thomas, Caruso and Kwiatkowski. 29 years ago, the five successive leaders were: Stefano Allocchio, Urs Freuler, Michael Wilson, Erich Maechler and Tony Rominger.
 
 
