An aftertaste can linger, for longer than one may want. The innumerable ‘ber’ fruits that Pravin Thete had consumed as a child from a fecund tree in his farm back home in Nashik left one such strong smack which stayed with him much after he had relocated to Pune for a job.  He recalls the taste of those ‘bers’ as being somewhat wood apple-ish — sour, sweet and with a hint of astringent. Now, the ‘ber’ (Indian jujube) is available in several types, depending upon geography, climate and soil conditions. The popular ones are the tart ‘chanya manya’ (which are less than 1 cm in diameter) and the cultivated, fleshy ‘apple ber’, both sold by thelawallahs and handcart-vendors in the city.  But Thete’s near-recall to his Nashik tree came when he tasted the Baneri ‘ber’ offered to him by a father-son farming duo. Thete was then a project officer with the Centre for Environment Education at Aundh and was studying wild fruits in and around the Western Ghats. The duo told him that Baner and adjoining Sus and Pimple Nilakh were well-known for their ‘bers’ and that there were around 30,000 trees in these areas till 1980. Urbanisation saw several trees being felled or withering away for want of care, reducing the number to just around 50 today, with 30 of these in Baner alone. Up to 1990, the Baneri ‘ber’ was the choice of buyers at Market Yard and even Lonavla, Baramati and Mumbai, they said. That set Thete on the exploratory road to know more about the Baneri ‘ber’. The 32-year-old has scoured Baner and its adjoining areas over two years to find 54 trees, each offering a different variety of the wild ‘ber’. He has collected the seeds of these 54 trees and prepared around 3,000 saplings, which are grown at the government nursery near Pune university and also at a farm in Sus.  The saplings, which grow to around 2-3 feet in one year, are much sought-after, with 2,500 of them already having found takers.  One Sayaji Shinde picked up more than 400 ‘ber’ saplings from Thete two years ago and planted them in four villages in Satara. Shinde also took 400 saplings of wild mango and 100 saplings of jamun from Thete. These saplings will grow into trees in around 10-15 years, depending on the soil and geographical conditions. For his part, Thete has planted around 60 saplings of the Baneri ‘ber’ in and around Baner over the last three years, with some of these saplings having grown up to 5 feet tall. He has also planted saplings on the Baner hill with the help of Vasundhara Swachata Abhiyan, a group dedicated to the conservation of the environment. The group has educated local people to look after saplings. Thete says the thorns on the saplings keeps away animals and the only threat to them could be a forest fire. Explaining the characteristics of the Baneri ‘ber’, Thete says the average size of the fruit is around 2-3 cm and has an equal measure of sweetness and sourness. While other ‘bers’ become dark orange on ripening, the Baneri ‘ber’ gradually ripens from the tip downwards. November to February is the ripening period. The ‘ber’ commands a better price (around Rs 80 a kg) than the cultivated ‘bers’. He also points out that the Sus variety of Baneri ‘ber’ has slightly different characteristics.  Thete is sold on the wild variety of fruits, be they ‘bers’, mangoes, jamuns or ‘karvanda’. These fruits have some or all of the six tastes that Ayurveda has listed -- sweet, sour, bitter, astringent, salty and spicy. Though not immediate, he plans to explore Mulshi tehsil for its wild mangoes. He says that just one village in Mulshi has 24 types of wild mango trees, with names such as ‘goti’, ‘khobri’, ‘lal amba’ and ‘dollar’. For now, though, his focus is the ‘ber’ as he seeks to get back for Baner what belonged to Baner.