LUDHIANA: A day after a daily-wager died after entering a sewer line for clearing a blockage, the MC here on Wednesday recommended an FIR against the man who had hired the deceased, Balram, for carrying out the work.

 However, at the time this story was filed, police were yet to act on the MC’s recommendations and had only started inquest proceedings in the case under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).   native Balram, who did menial jobs for a living, was pulled out dead from the sewer line in Shimlapuri, Daba Road, on Tuesday evening. 
 
 The MC has recommended that an FIR be registered against   under sections of the Manual Scavenger Act. Lal had hired Balram for clearing the blockage. 
 
 Meanwhile, the postmortem was carried out on Wednesday, following which Balram’s body was handed to his family. 
 
 The police and the MC have gotten into a debate over the case. While the civic body has said Balram’s entering the sewer line without any safety measures was a violation of the Manual Scavengers Act, police have said that statements collected from eyewitnesses had revealed that Balram entered the sewer line on his own. 
 
 MC superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said the owner of the building where Balram had gone to work was an NRI. “Lal, a tenant, asked Balram to clean the sewerage. This is why we have recommended the police to register an FIR in the case after investigation. We have attached a copy of the Act with the recommendation. Manual scavenging is illegal in the country,” he said.
 
 When contacted, the investigating officer at Shimlapuri police station, Hardev Singh, said they had started inquest proceedings in the case under Section 174 of CrPC, which is a regular procedure for an unnatural death. “The postmortem was done at the civil hospital. Viscera of his heart and lungs will be sent to Patiala for further examination,” he said.
 
 The cop said there were conflicting eyewitness accounts from the locality where the death took place. While some people were saying that Balram was asked to enter to the sewer line, others are saying he entered it himself.
 
 
