NAGPUR: Dr   embraced Buddhism to free untouchables from the stigma attached to them since time immemorial and the move was aimed at giving them the respect they deserved in society, said Naushad Usman, a senior journalist from Aurangabad, on Saturday. 

 “Dalits, Mahar and other backward castes were maltreated which Dr   could not fathom as he had also faced such an ignominy. He weighed many options and then decided to convert to Buddhism which was a well thought out decision,” Usman said.
 
 Usman was speaking on ‘Thoughts of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar on minorities and secularism’ at a programme organized by   at the convocation hall to mark his 127th birth anniversary. Vice-chancellor SP Kane was in the chair while registrar Puranchandra Meshram was present. 
 
 Just like Shivaji Maharaj, Ambedkar believed that people should follow the religion they want to and not interfere in others’ faith. The profound impact Shivaji Maharaj had on Ambedkar was reflected when he wrote Article 25 of the Indian Constitution that upholds importance of secularism. Ambedkar was a living example of liberalism, he said.
 
 The Constitution and religion should walk parallel to each other for a healthy society. The Constitution is a boon to every Indian as it is all encompassing and guarantees freedom of speech, expression and thought, Usman said.
 
 Commenting on the misconceptions about Ambedkar’s views on the Muslim community, Usman said he never supported patronizing any type of outfit. What he wanted was that hijab or burqa should not become a barrier in Muslim girls’ education.
 
 Usman lamented that “there are certain elements which are painting his pioneering work and statements in a negative way to provoke the Muslim community”.
 
 Addressing the gathering, Meshram said Ambedkar was not only a saviour of the downtrodden but was truly a leader of the masses. Every movement Ambedkar launched was aimed at uplift of the society. He strongly believed that every person has a great potential and no social stratification can outshine the ability, he added.
 
 A short documentary based on Ambedkar and his struggle for the untouchables was shown during the programme. 
 
 
