Ludhiana: Under pressure to act against the alleged assaulters of a 52-year-old man, who died of cardiac arrest following a scuffle with neighbours over an issue of parking on Sunday, the police booked the neighbours under murder (Section 302 of the IPC) charges on Tuesday.

 Earlier, the kin of the deceased staged a protest placing the man’s body on Rajpura Road near Kundan Vidya Mandir for about an hour on Tuesday afternoon, demanding a murder case against neighbours.
 
 As the road was blocked during the protest, traffic was diverted by cops. Later police registered a case against the neighbours. Those booked have been identified as Vishal Goswami, his wife Mamta, and their son-in-law Vicky.
 
 Late on Sunday evening, Munish Kumar (52) of Sandhu Nagar — who owns a tea stall in Samrala Chowk — returned home on his motorcycle, and found that some guests of his neighbour had parked their car wrongly, restricting entry to his house. He raised an objection, following which Vishal, Mamta, Vicky, and the guests came outside and entered into a spat with him.
 
 Munish’s son Himanshu said the accused thrashed his father and made him fall on the ground by giving him a push. He added that they took his father inside the house to avoid any problem. After sometime, his father complained about ill-health, and they rushed him to Rama Charitable Hospital. Considering his condition, the hospital staff referred him to Civil Hospital, but he died on the way.
 
 The entire incident was captured in a CCTV installed in another neighbour’s house. Initially, the police was hesitant registering a case, as the man died a few hours after the scuffle, and he had no visible injury. SHO at police station Division No.4, inspector Rajwant Singh, said though Munish was beaten up by neighbours, the post-mortem report revealed he had died due to cardiac arrest.
 
 However, to pacify his kin, the police registered a case against the three neighbours under murder charges. Rajwant added the police would further investigate the role of all the accused. But Himanshu — justifying the demand for murder charges — said the neighbours had thrashed his father badly over a minor issue, which led to his death.
 
 
