Nagpur: Juvenile minds can be moulded into both positive and negative activities. In an example of the former, a juvenile accused of abduction and assault became part of an effort to rescue a drowning man. On late Friday night, the Ambazari cops were taking the 17-year-old to his place in the police van when they were alerted by police station staffers that a man was drowning at Ambazari Lake and was screaming for help. PSI PR Patankar, along with four constables, turned the van towards the lake where they saw the man after looking for him for 15 minutes. The juvenile, who had helped his friend kidnap a man in a car a few hours ago, started insisting the cops to allow him to jump into the lake as he was a swimmer. “I refused as he was in our custody and I couldn’t risk his life. I made a human chain and held the juvenile in the middle. Constable Baljeet led the chain followed by me and the juvenile. Baljeet helped the drowning man, identified as Shailesh Thakrey (29), tie the belt to his waist. We succeeded in dragging him out in five minutes,” Patankar told TOI. The cops pumped out water from his body and rushed the unconscious Thakrey to a private hospital near Ambazari police station. Thakrey’s mother Asha lodged a missing person’s complaint at Rana Pratap Nagar police station at 4am on Saturday. The cops received information about the man by the control room. Asha told the cops that Shailesh was suffering from long-term chronic disease. On Friday night, he left the house to take a stroll after dinner but didn’t return. The cops said he probably tried to commit suicide as they didn’t find anything suspicious at the spot. He struggled for around 20 minutes before being rescued, police said. Patankar said the juvenile, who has no previous offence, drove the car in which accused Ashish Kuttarmare, along with Pranay Param and notorious goon Sanu Kodpe, abducted a man for defaming Kuttarmare’s girlfriend. After assaulting the man, they released him at Sitabuldi. The cops rounded up all the accused and detained the juvenile from Kodpe’s residence.