PANAJI: Chief minister Manohar   reiterated on Tuesday his government’s resolve not to allow   of   handling in the port town of Vasco, despite the central expert appraisal committee giving its nod to  , a unit of JSW, to extend its 5A-6A berths at Mormugao Port.

 “We will not permit coal expansion at MPT and we stand by it,” Parrikar told TOI. If the expansion is allowed, then the two berths will handle around 12-13 million tonnes of coal and other cargo per annum from the current 7.5 million tonnes. 
 
 In November, following a letter by Parrikar, the CEAC under the Union ministry of environment had deferred the decision on granting environmental clearance to South West Port Ltd’s expansion plans.
 
 But after SWPL submitted its submissions, the expert panel recommended environmental clearance for the project. “The EAC, on being satisfied with the submissions of the project proponent in response to its observations, recommended the project for grant of environmental and CRZ clearance,” said the minutes of the meeting, which was held on December 14 and 15.
 
 As per the procedure, the expert panel recommends a green clearance to the project and after that the environment ministry gives permission.
 
 Sources said the government is studying the expert panel’s decision before approaching the environment ministry.
 
 The expert panel had sought pointwise replies to concerns expressed during the public hearing, and a statement of representations received during the additional period of seven days after the public hearing.
 
 After deliberating on the information provided by SWPL, the committee noted that the company has taken various steps toward air pollution control measures which “vehemently controls the particulate emissions in the terminal at the present scenario”.
 
 In August 2017, Parrikar had written to the environment ministry not to allow SWPL to increase its coal handling capacity until the level of particulate matter in Vasco was well within stipulated standards. 
 
 He also asked the ministry to direct SWPL to take measures to control coal pollution in the port town.
 
 
