GURGAON: The first person to use the   process for availing an occupation certificate (OC) for her house has received the document within six days of applying for it.  , who applied for the OC for her   home on January 4, received the certificate on January 10. 

 Doing away with site inspection, which was previously mandatory,   introduced the self-certification system from January 1, 2018, under which residents of licensed colonies are allowed to submit self-certified drawings and other documents through an authorised architect to receive an OC, easing the process for those who have followed all norms while building their own houses. 
 
 If everything in the self-certification is found in accordance with rules, the department promises to issue the OC within eight working days. From January 4, people have started submitting applications under this new system. Till Thursday, 10 such applications had been received by the department. Of her experience, Makkar said, “I applied for OC under the new system. Within a few days, I got a call to receive it from the DTCP office.” 
 
 “Genuine, law-abiding citizens won’t face any inconvenience, but the department won’t overlook violations of building code, etc, if there are any,” said district town planner (DTP) R S  . A house built without violating the Haryana Building Code, without deviating from approved map, and with all documents in order, can expect to receive the OC in eight working days.
 
 Batth though said that while every site for which DTCP receives OC applications, may not be inspected, but random inspection will be carried out to check for any misuse of the new system. In case of discrepancies or violations, the department will cancel the OC and blacklist the architect who had forwarded the application.
 
 “People are coming to our office to enquire about the new format,” said Batth, adding it may take a few weeks before they start receiving more applications for self-certification. The department has circulated the draft of new formats for applications and affidavits to all affiliated architects.
 
 
