Vijayawada: The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation congratulated the commissioner J Nivas and the sanitary staff for their efforts to make the city India’s ‘cleanest big city’ in the over 1 million population category.

 Mayor Koneru Sridhar appreciated the efforts of the ground-level sanitary staff who worked hard to ensure that garbage was segregated into dry and wet waste by households thus helping the city achieve the top rank in Swachh Survekshan-2018.
 
 Deputy mayor G Ramana Rao said their dedicated efforts paid off. “Collective efforts of sanitary staff and health officials yielded positive results and active participation of denizens in cleanliness drives helped us to improve rankings,” Ramana Rao said.
 
 “Perfect planning and hard work of ground-level staff resulted in the success of   in Swachh Survekshan-2018,” said VMC chief Nivas. 
 
 “We started preparations for Swachh Survekshan from September 2017 and identified the major problems in sanitation. Painting walls that used to be urinated upon and constructing urinals at major junctions helped us control open urination in the city which is a major factor that helped the city get a better rank,” says Nivas.
 
 Garbage management is a key factor in Swachh Survekshan and our city faced severe problems in solid waste management earlier, said Nivas. Several innovative initiatives taken by VMC utilising advanced technology gave good results, the commissioner added. 
 
 “We have introduced smart dumper bins which inform the vehicle depot when the bins get full and we also introduced compactor to clear dumper bins fast,” he said.
 
 Door to door garbage collection and on-site composting plants in Rythu Bazaars and flower markets helped us generate tonnes of vermicompost which saw huge demand in the market and helped us recover money spent on transporting garbage to dumping yards,” said Nivas.
 
 Around 40% feedback from denizens is an additional advantage for us and the responsibility doubled on our shoulders after achieving success in Swachh Survekshan this year.
 
 
