Ghaziabad:   continue to dot the city’s skyline despite an   order banning them in 2015. The civic authorities, however, said action was being taken to pull them down.

 Alok Kumar, an RTI activist and president of Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association, whose petition in the high court had led to the ban, said he had recently written to the district administration highlighting the issue.
 
 In the letter, Kumar alleged that the   and other civic bodies had been neglecting the situation despite the 2015 court order and a contempt plea in 2016. He said some of those who had put up the illegal hoardings enjoyed the patronage of local politicians. 
 
 In a detailed order on January 29, 2015, the high court had directed the municipal commissioner to immediately take steps to remove all unauthorised hoardings in areas under his jurisdiction. It had also pulled up the civic body, saying the state of affairs only indicated the lack of compliance with the law and a total absence of administrative will.
 
 “Where hoardings are erected by political parties during elections and on social occasions involving a local political leader, such hoardings should also be dealt with in the strictest possible terms, where no sanction has been given by the municipal corporation in accordance with the rules. No hoarding which constitutes a danger, obstruction or nuisance to the free flow of traffic or to pedestrians is permitted to be erected,” the court had stated.
 
 The court had also directed the municipal commissioner to put in place a system to monitor the steps taken to remove the unauthorised hoardings and against the advertiser.
 
 Kumar filed a contempt plea a year later against the district administration, senior superintendent of police and the GMC commissioner, alleging that little action had been taken to remove the hoardings.
 
 “The situation has hardly changed for the better. The hoarding mafia continue to put up many more ads than they have permission for. Traffic signals at many places are almost entirely covered by the unauthorised displays, causing accidents. They also pose a serious inconvenience to pedestrians,” said Kumar.
 
 Asked about the menace, both GMC commissioner CP Singh and Ghaziabad Development Authority secretary Santosh Kumar Rai said action was being taken against those putting up unauthorised hoardings. 
 
 “We take action whenever we find illegal hoardings. A committee has also been formed to prepare a report on legal as well as illegal hoardings in the city. The report is awaited,” Singh said. District magistrate Ritu Maheshwari could not be reached for comments despite repeated attempts.
 
 
