MANGALURU/MUMBAI: The saffron brigade here has submitted a complaint to defence minister   over the alleged increase in cases of love jihad in the coastal town. This follows the recent case of the daughter of a prominent Hindutva group leader allegedly eloping with a Muslim youth.

 The couple has reportedly registered their marriage in Mumbai. However, the 23-year-old girl is now back home in Mangaluru. In an interesting turns of events, the man,  , a resident of Mankurd in Mumbai, has filed a complaint with the Mumbai police commissioner that a gang, suspected to be men from the saffron brigade in Mangaluru, had kidnapped his wife from   in Mumbai on December 17. However, the local media stated that the girl, in an affidavit which has been forwarded to the Maharashtra police, has mentioned that she has come back on her own accord.
 
 A resident of   near Mankhurd railway station, Choudhary works with Allied HVAC, a firm in Nerul. He has lodged a complaint alleging that the kidnapping was staged by his in-laws as they were opposed to their inter-community marriage. The couple was attacked while they were coming out of the mall.
 
 Choudhary in his complaint to Mumbai cops said, “On Sunday evening, I and my wife Reshma visited Inorbit Mall to shop. When we got out of the mall around 4pm, four men suddenly came up in an MUV and manhandled me before forcing my wife into the vehicle. I suspect that my wife’s uncles, who are based in Mangaluru and have strong political clout there, might have kidnapped her to separate us. Previously, on August 31, 2017, just a month after our marriage, some 12 men, suspected to have been sent by my in-laws, had attempted to forcibly enter our home around 4am. They attempted to kidnap my wife but since she was with me on the first floor of our house, they failed in their attempt.”
 
 Though the girl, a law student, fled five months ago, the incident came to light only now.
 
 Choudhary said, “We got acquainted on Facebook some seven years ago. She was pursuing law and I was working after completing my SSC and an ITI electrician course. We got married on July 15, 2017, and our nikah was solemnized in Chembur. Thereafter, we registered our marriage at Bandra court. We are legally husband and wife. My in-laws can’t forcibly take her away from me.”
 
 The Hindutva leader originally hails from   and has been residing in the city with his family since several years. 
 
 The incident comes close on the heels of a similar case where a 25-year old Priyanka Bhandary fleeing with a Muslim youth just a day before her wedding to her boyfriend of six-years.
 
