PATNA: Governor Satya Pal Malik will address the joint session of both Houses of state legislature to mark the start of the month-long   session on Monday.

 After the governor’s address, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, who also holds the finance portfolio, will table the Economic Survey Report for 2017-18 in the assembly. The report will be in a new format this year in two parts. The first part will present a broad sweep of the economic activities, interventions made by the government on the development front and achievements made thereof over the past one-and-a-half decade. The second part, on the other hand, will have statistical back up for the claims and presentations made in the report.
 
 Modi will present the state budget for 2018-19 on Tuesday (February 27). It will be the first budget of the state after the imposition of goods and services tax (GST) in the country on July 1 last year. It will also be the first budget of the NDA-II government in the state and Modi’s eighth. 
 
 The opening day of the budget session is likely to pass off peacefully as the governor’s address to the joint session of the state legislature is considered one of the significant events by legislators. However, the opposition members are likely to demonstrate outside the floor of the House on different issues.
 
 “We will utilise every opportunity to expose the failures of the government apart from referring to various scams and deteriorating law and order in the state,” RJD chief whip in the legislature Bhai Birendra said.
 
 “The opposition will do its job and the government will also do what it has to do. Don’t expect the opposition to work in tandem with the government,” energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said.
 
 In all, there are 24 working days in the budget session during which the RJD-Congress alliance is likely to make all efforts to put the ruling NDA in the dock over alleged lack of adequate action in Srijan scam, irregularities in construction of toilets, poor law and order and high-handedness in implementation of prohibition.
 
 With by-elections for two assembly and one parliamentary constituencies besides six Rajya Sabha seats scheduled for next month, both the alliances are also likely to corner each other over CBI and ED inquiries into allegations of corruption against RJD supremo Lalu Prasad and his family members as also the Srijan scam and bungling in construction of toilets in which the opposition has been alleging the involvement of people close to the ruling NDA.
 
 
