Panaji: One of Goa’s extensive traditional storm water drain called the ‘gaoncho vao’ (village brook) in the scenic   valley is considered its natural heritage, but it has now become a cesspit of urban garbage ending up in the stream.

 The verdant village sprawled between two parallel east-west oriented hills on the western tip of Mapusa draws settlers looking for serenity. But accumulating garbage is slowly ruining its ambience.
 
 Citizens and activists are growing concerned about the increasing waste and are preparing to get their hands dirty to clean this asset.
 
 “Assagao contributes anywhere close to approximately five tons of global marine pollution per year. This includes plastic and beer bottles besides other debris,” said Felly Gomes of Live Happy Foundation, an NGO.
 
 In an effort to change this, Live Happy has started the Live Clean campaign in Assagao. The initiative will have a three-fold module of an awareness campaign, door-to-door dry waste collection and coastal cleaning.
 
 “We need to start at the ground-level if change needs to be initiated. Once people are made conscious about not adding more to the already existing pollution, we need to bring in help from civic bodies to start clearing out what is already polluting the earth,” Gomes said.
 
 As part of the door-to-door dry waste collection, Live Happy intends to cover over 1,000 homes in the village and segregate waste to recycle it. 
 
 It will also cover several schools as part of the awareness campaign besides sensitizing locals. 
 
 Coastal cleaning activities will take place on the beaches of neighbouring villages of Anjuna and Vagator.
 
 “We realize that the biggest challenge here is gathering the waste that ends up in the marine space. By the time we intervene, the waste has already broken down into nano-particles and has spread into the oceans and marine life. Instead of dealing with the symptoms, however we must participate in the cause,” said Puja Mitra of Terra Conscious, a social enterprise promoting responsible marine and coastal tourism which is helping Live Happy with this initiative.
 
 
