NAGPUR: How inseparable are   dances and songs are from the Maharashtrian culture was on display as the artistes not only swayed the audience to their tunes but also won their hearts with every step, at Scientific Society Hall, on Sunday.

 A jam-packed hall reverberated with joy and fun at the Lavni Festival organized by Swaralee Sangeet Sanstha (SSS) as part of silver jubilee celebrations.
 
 The show started with Indradhanu orchestra’s exceptional Natranga curtain-raiser tune, followed by classical melodies based on raag Bhatiyar and Dadra. A lavni instrumental pieces based on Kalingada raag, originally composed by Nagpur’s Pandit Arunkumar Bhattacharya, was the star attraction. 
 
 These musical pieces, presented by around 30 women dressed in vivid saris, brought forth the rustic but attractive nature of Lavni at the beginning of the show. Whistles in between the melodies by   added to fun and got a huge applause. Beginning with just tabla and minor with a smooth, synchronizing blend of sitar and violins in between, the show was a treat to ears.
 
 Later began singing, with the rendition of ‘Ugawali shukrachi chandani’ in the sweet voice of Vidya Borkar. It was followed by popular song ‘Ya raoji tumhi basa bhavji’, sung by Shraddha Gharote who lifted the spirit of the show with her striking voice. 
 
 ‘Bugdi maazi sandli ga’, presented by first-timer Amruta Pendke was so versatile that it evoked an encore. This Lavni from Marathi film ‘Sangatye Aika’, featuring Jayashri Gadkar on the silver screen, proved that its beauty has not lost charm even after decades.
 
 ‘Chala jejuri la jau’ and ‘Padala piklay amba’ by   and   were also highly appreciated. 
 
 ‘Reshmachya reghani’ by Pendke stole the show. Starting with solo dholak by Pankaj Yadav, the song was highly impressive. The audience was seen synchronizing their claps with Yadav’s beats.
 
 Other melodies like ‘Vajle ki bara’, ‘Kasa kai patil’ and ‘Rati ardhya rati’, besides others, were beautifully presented. 
 
 The highlight of the show was lavni dances by Mrunmayee Gondhalekar, winner of the reality show ‘Dholakichya Talavar', in between a set of songs. Expressions, swiftness and liveliness in her performances earned her loads of praise. 
 
 The event was conceptualized by Nandini Sahasrabuddhe, director of SSS and compèred by Neeta Paranjape.
 
 The accompanying artistes were   (synthesizer), Sumedha Wazalwar (harmonium), Moreshwar Dahasahastra (tabla),   (minor) and Yadav (dholak). 
 
 Nitin and Mrudula Sudame were the chief guests at the event.
 
 
