If there hadn’t been women, we’d still be squatting in a cave eating raw meat; because we made civilisation in order to impress our girlfriends,” legendary Hollywood director/actor Orson Welles had said once. It seems, he wasn’t off the mark. Behavioural scientists now say that what was once considered the simple story of the birds and bees — attraction, copulation and reproduction — always had an element of mind game involved.
Whether it was our forefathers lighting fire at caves to impress women or the modern man swiping right on innumerable   apps – the mind has always mattered as much as pure physical desire in the game of love. Modern scientists refer to this kind of intelligence as   (MI) — i.e., the mental skills and know-how one needs — and uses — to woo the object of his/her affection. 
 
 
 
 Not really. It is an acquired skill. Let stand-up comedian Sorabh Pant explain why. “I come from a boy’s school and barely knew how to talk to women. It took a tremendous amount of effort, many trials and errors to even sum up the courage to ask anyone out. Lots of women said ‘no’ to a date, a couple of them flatly laughed at my face,” he says. But Pant was not deterred. He fell back on his wit. After a lot of rejection, he settled on adding his own version of “weird humour and charm” to woo the next person he was attracted to. So what if it wasn’t love/attraction at first sight? It could be good laugh at first sight, right? That could be a good beginning. And it was. “By the time I met my wife, who was way out of my league, I knew how to be vaguely charming.” Being intelligent worked. 
 
 
 In the age of dating apps things have become far more complex. You don’t meet a cute boy in college here or a cute sister of your friend there. The love game is at our finger tips as we stare at the phone screen, and we have to be smart to keep someone interested in us, because everyone has too many choices. 
 Mating Intelligence is now a necessary skill set without which we will fail the game of love completely. Because the goal isn’t getting the boy/girl to like you; it’s to hold his or her attention long enough for him/her to stop looking for other — or better — options. Psychologists Glenn Geher and Scott Barry Kaufman wrote in their book,   Intelligence Unleashed, that human mating draws on a range of mental skills and attributes – from the creative use of pick-up lines, to displays of charisma, intelligence, humour, personality, and compassion.
 When Nikhil Verma, corporate lawyer, fell for his cute neighbour, Roopali Das, instantly, he knew he had a small window to keep her interested in him, given that many others were interested in Das. Since they both loved music, he went the extra mile to find out all about her specific interest in trance and soft rock, and by the time they were out for coffee, he had enough armour to charm her to bits. 
 Sonali Gupta, consultant psychologist with Tinder, says most studies on Mating Intelligence throw up this basic fact: judgments people make on the basis of brief interactions — either on dating apps, actual physical dates or just flirting — are quite powerful, and can help people find right ways to woo someone with success.” 
 “Relationships end quickly for some people because they have low mating intelligence. One rule cannot apply to all in this complex dating and mating game,” says psychologist Rachna Khanna. Is it not then wise to brush up on mind matters while making a go for someone’s heart?
 
 A high mating IQ is linked to general confidence in one’s attractiveness, the ability to influence things in your favour yet having the ability to empathise
 —
 
 
 
 
 MI is the skills and know-how one needs to successfully navigate romantic relationships. Psychology Today defines it as an “entire set of psychological abilities required for courtship, flirtation, foreplay, mate-search, mate-choice, mate-guarding, even mate-switching.”
 
 
 
