TRICHY: Apart from decongesting the East Boulevard road (EB road), relocation of the lorry shed of Trichy Corporation and subsequent streamlining to prevent heavy vehicles parking on EB road would help restoration of the public transport system. 

 Thanks to the haphazard parking of heavy vehicles on EB road, a large number of people in the locality have been remaining disconnected from other parts of the city as their demands to operate buses on the stretch had been going unnoticed. The restoration of public transport would also facilitate small-time investments in the area targeting numerous neighbourhoods.
 
 Though EB road and adjoining localities such as Babu road and Beerangikulam are densely populated, the residents do not have direct buses to the bus stand and railways stations. Citing the congestion on EB road, buses take the parallel   (WB road) to reach Gandhi market and from there to Thanjavur road and Palpannai. Thus, EB road has been remaining a least connected spot by public transport despite being a four-lane road. 
 
 In the past, while state transport corporation buses were operated from Chathiram bus stand to  , the frequency of bus services drastically fell to almost nil in the past two decades due to the traffic congestion. If the lorry shed on EB road is relocated and the haphazard parking streamlined, locals claim that restoration of bus transportation could pave the way for development of the area. “With Gandhi Market relocation gaining momentum, the district administration should take measures to relaunch bus transport via EB road. This move will decongest the saturated   too,” V B Jeganath, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavours (TIDES), said.
 
 While the town railway station is located on EB road, poor connectivity through buses has been preventing the potential patronage of the station. Since the route between Chathiram bus stand and Tiruverumbur via West Boulevard Road and Gandhi market arch sees frequent bottlenecks, the road safety council had also pressed for operating buses from Chathiram to Tiruverumbur through EB road. “Instead of operating all the city buses on WB road, the wide EB road can be utilised to operate at least 50% of the Tiruverumbur-bound buses. Permits available to operate buses were not used appropriately by the transport corporation,” M Sekaran, member, road safety council said. When contacted, official sources with   division said that more fleets could be operated only if the haphazard parking of heavy vehicles on EB road was curtailed.
 
 
 
