BHOPAL: Club Literati organised an enactment called 'Shakespeare lives' at the  , showcasing some important episodes from the life of the great dramatist on the last day of Shakespeareana -   Fest 2018 on Saturday. 

  While the world knows and admires the Bard for his dramatic works and sonnets, little is known about his personal life. 
 
  "Shakespeare's works have been translated into most of the languages across the world and generations have read his plays and poems. Yet, not many people know much about his personal life and how he went into depression after his son's death. Not much record has been found about his life either, but we have tried to pass on the information that is on record and can help connoisseurs of literature to delve deeper into his life," said  , founder and president of the club. 
 
 Innovative script and direction by Bhaskar Indrakanti and   helped in making the event successful by including dialogues from  's movies based on the dramatist's works-   (based on Hamlet), Omkara (based on Othello) and Maqbool (based on Macbeth).
 
 "We have such wonderful film adaptations made by Vishal Bharadwaj in Hindi. These are some of the best adaptations of his works so we recreated some scenes from the films and enacted them on stage," said Yadav.
 
 She said the dialogues showcasing his personal life were written using the titles and dialogues from his greatest plays. "There is no record of the conversations that the playwright had with some eminent personalities, his wife Anne Hathaway or any personal account that he might have left behind that could give us a peak into his life. So we used his dialogues and play titles to convey the emotions he might have felt after his son's demise. For this we have also taken reference from the four great tragedies written by him," said Yadav.
 
 In a comic sequence, participants also enacted how women were not allowed to act in theatre during the 16th century. The enactment of female characters by men left the audience in splits.
 
