TOI takes a look at some young sportspersons who lit up the inaugural   with their inspiring performances

 
 
 
  
  
 The 16-year-old from Delhi's Bada Bagh slum in Azadpur has emerged as one of country's promising track and field sensations at the junior level. Nisar has regularly been recording sub-11 timings at the domestic level meets and is touted as a future medal prospect at international competitions.
 
 In the KISG, he not only equalled his personal best - clocking an impressive 10.76s - to clinch the gold medal in the 100m dash but also rewrote the under-16 national record.
 
 "I want to use this scholarship to bust the myth that Indians cannot run below 10 seconds. My ultimate aim is to bring medal glory for the nation at the Olympics. Khelo India is a step in that direction," he said.
 
 Nisar has now gone to train at the famous Racers Track Club in Kingston, Jamaica, home to track legend Usain Bolt and his coach Glen Mills.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Haryana's   clinched two gold medals in the shot put (12.88m) and discus throw (41.01m) events for girls at the KISG, following in the footsteps of champion women throwers coming out of her state.
 
 It all started in Charkhi, Haryana, for this 9th standard student of the Government Girls Senior Secondary School when she got inspired by her sister who was a javelin thrower. However, unlike her sister, she started with discus before taking up shot put as well. For Pooja, two-time Olympic and World champion, Sandra Perkovic, is the inspiration. She wants to emulate the 27-year-old Croatian.
 
 "I want to make it big like her. She has been a real star for me. The KISG is a stepping stone, the platform which has put me on course for realising my dreams. This scholarship of Rs 5 lakh would be of immense help," she said.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 For someone who took to shooting just a little over two years back, breaking two long-standing national records in a span of less than a month would easily qualify as prodigious talent. But when you talk to 16-year-old   about it, she laughs off any such suggestion. "It (breaking records) just happens. I don't think about them. People tell me later that I have broken a record," said Manu after claiming gold in 10m air pistol event. She didn't just win the gold, she broke two junior national records inside an hour.
 
 A little known fact about her is that before taking up shooting, she was already competing at the national level in different sports. For Manu, 2018 will be a big year. She has qualified for all the senior and junior ISSF World Cups, Gold Coast Commonwealth Games and the 2018 Buenos Aires Youth Olympics. "I am prepared for that. I have even got extra pages added to my passport," she said.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Asian cadet wrestling champion  's story of resilience and inspiration echoes loudly at the KD Jadhav stadium in Delhi. Hailing from Uttar Pradesh which has produced wrestlers by the dozen, his journey to get the better of his peers with limited resources is exemplary.
 
 Arshad hails from an underprivileged background and took up sport at a very early age. One of the four grappler sons of a milkman, Arshad has battled odds to reach the level he is now in. "My village had regular dangals (wrestling competitions). I used to go and watch them from the age of six," says the winner of the 46kg Greco-Roman class. "I hope through the KISG, I can bring medals in the Greco Roman discipline, which has traditionally not been our forte," he said.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 When Vikas started out, he used to train with makeshift javelins made from wood and aluminium, but they would often break upon impact with the ground. But the 17-year-old didn't allow the odds to overpower his ambitions. At the KISG, he claimed the gold medal with a throw of 75.02m to get a step closer towards realising his dream of representing India at the 2018 Youth Olympic Games.
 
 Vikas, who hails from Kaulapur village in UP's Badohi district, had a modest introduction to the sport. "My parents and elder brother always supported me. Also, my first coach (Collector Singh) helped me a lot. He got me my first pair of spikes," he said.
 
 Vikas' story changed when he was spotted by his current coach, Rakesh Rawat. "This KISG gold is my reply to the critics," said Vikas.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 A labourer's daughter, Sumathira's personal best of 56.39s in the girls' 400m final stood out on the last day of the athletics competition in the KISG. Sumathira, who hails from Ariyalur, shed her shyness to harvest gold with her run. She was spotted at an event in Tiruchirapalli three years ago when she ran the 800m in 1:18.
 
 Training on the mud track at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) centre in Rajanthottam under coach G R Prabhakar, she has used her raw talent to forge ahead.
 
 At KISG, Sumathira went all out from the start and overtook her rivals, hands flailing and head rolling, to clock a personal best timing. It was the second fastest 400m by an Indian under-20 runner this season. She is aware that she has earned herself Rs 5 lakh scholarship that can help her improve her training and push her towards winning an India call-up.
 
 
 
  
  In India, wrestling is synonymous with the northern states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, but now   has added Manipur to that list. He has become the first wrestler from the state to be noticed at the national level by winning the gold medal in the boys' 50kg class Greco Roman competitions at the KISG. Hailing from a little village close to Imphal, Sayon has made a mark in a sport one would not associate Manipur with.
 
 "My mother is a homemaker while my father is a farmer. That's my family's only source of income. I don't want the sacrifices of my parents to go waste. The KISG scholarship will help me in continuing my training without putting a burden on them," he said. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 OLYMPIAN AND ARJUNA AWARDEE
 
  
  
 
 Initiatives like KISG will change the future of Indian sports. The pathbreaking concept will not only help archery but also stimulate the growth of Indian sports in entirety. KISG will act as a catalyst for schools to introduce sports as an activity in time-tables. The scholarship amount will play a key role in changing the mindsets.
 
 
 
 
  | SPORTS MINISTER & OLYMPICS SILVER MEDALLIST
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The idea of the KISG is to build a strong pool of talent leading up to the Olympics in 2024, 2028 and so on. The idea is to make it aspirational for youngsters to have regular competitions. They can come through School Games to College Games and so on till they get to Asian and Commonwealth Games, and finally Olympics.
 
 
  | SYDNEY OLYMPICS BRONZE MEDALLIST, PADMA SHRI AND ARJUNA AWARDEE
  
  
 
 There is so much talent in weightlifting at the junior level that it is unbelievable. I was amazed to see the hunger and the willingness to work hard and do well. If these children are given the right opportunity, they will most certainly become champions. Through Games like these, I want more youngsters take up the sport.
 
 
 
 | OLYMPIAN AND SILVER MEDALLIST AT THE IAAF WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
 
  
  
 
 It's a great platform for the youth of our country. This is the first time they are getting this kind of support from the government. When we were in school, there was hardly any support to pursue a career in sports. We used to do everything on our own. It was only after we started competing and winning at the international level, people took note of us and only then the government stepped in with support. The kind of a support system that the Khelo India initiative intends to put in place for young athletes will go a long way in bringing an incremental change in India's sporting landscape.
 
 
 
 | WORLD CHAMPION
  
  I wish we had events like KISG for that would have given us a great start. It was a pleasure to interact with these kids. Some of them come from very humble backgrounds. If they get scholarships and an opportunity to study and play sport at the same time, they will develop into champions and excellent people.
 
 
 
 | SPRINT QUEEN
  
  We didn't have a system that Khelo India is trying to put in place to capture, groom and nurture talent. Our young athletes are very fortunate to find this kind of support from the government. 
 
 
 
 | SILVER MEDALLIST AT THE 2016 RIO PARALYMPICS
  
  It is high time we pushed the country to become a sporting nation. If we talk about sports excellence then the total population of the country doesn't matter. What matters is the sporting population. It's only when we start catching talent at a young age that we help in inculcating the habit of sports as a healthy lifestyle." 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 International standard audiovisual coverage in High Definition entailing 10 live cameras and 8 roaming cameras to bring action from 16 different sports
 
 
 Crew of 100 spread over 5 stadia and 11 indoor and 5 outdoor arenas to cover more than 70 events
 
 
  Specially developed graphics packaged to add vibrancy to the coverage and capture the essence of the school games
 
 
  8 hours of live coverage each day broadcast on 3 Star Sports Channels and streamed on Hotstar to make the games available to the widest possible audience
 
 
 Highlights of the games aired on Star India channels across Asia Pacific, UK & Continental Europe and middle-east to provide international exposure for the athletes
 
 
 Enhanced commentary and studio shows helped explain rules of the game to improve comprehension and build profiles of India's future sporting stars
 
 
 Super slow motion cameras used for the first time in India to cover multiple domestic sports
 
 
 , MD, Star India.
  
  The perennial challenge for sports in India has been a deep-seated mindset in our country, amongst parents, schools & communities, that textbook education is the only pathway to success. Sports, we believe, is as important as formal schooling and needs to accompany and complement formal education to power success. That is the mindset we need to foster in this country -- and Khelo India is a critical step towards that objective. It is an honour for us to produce Khelo India School Games and reach out to millions via world class broadcast that inspires parents and teachers to encourage their kids to emulate the feats of future stars. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
