NEW DELHI: A youth murdered by pickpockets, a DU student’s modesty outraged by a man who masturbates next to her, a man pulled out and stabbed to death. The common thread in all these crimes is a city  . 

 
  
  
 The city bus was once projected as the ‘janata janardan gaadi’, or the purveyor of the common man. Today, in Delhi, there are many people who board a bus with a lot of trepidation. What if a molester is on board, a woman would think; what if my pocket is picked, a university student might dither; what if I am killed, a young father might fear. 
 
 These fears cannot be easily dismissed, as two murders happened recently in two crowded   without any intervention of other passengers. 
 
 Rashi Gupta, a DU student recalled how her phone was stolen last year: “I was travelling to Delhi Gate in a crowded bus when a man fled with my phone that was kept in the sidebag.” Construction engineer Rajesh Chaudhary was travelling from Akshardham to ITO last month when he felt a hand sliding into his pocket. “But before I could turn around, the hand slipped out and the man went missing,” he said. 
 
 These crimes bear the imprint of organised  , not solo operators. And sources say these are extremely organised. They have different modules with different areas assigned to them. That means a particular group would operate only on a certain route. Even targets are chosen by jurisdiction. 
 
 “Each member of the group has a specific task, which ranges from identifying targets to stealing wallets and phones. The group also has person who is assigned the task of taking the booty from the thief and flee from the spot. Even if a thief is caught on the spot on suspicion, he has already passed the loot on,” said an officer who recently busted one such gang. 
 
 If a passenger catches a thief red-handed, the gang violently confronts the victim. If the fellow passengers gang up, they use physical violence, even stabbing, to flee. 
 
 “I caught someone trying to steal my phone from my handbag. But he attacked me with some sharp object and fled. There was a minor cut,” said Dhriti Bardhan, who works in a private firm.
 
 An officer said the gang members rehearse their actions before striking. “Many have confessed to having oiled their bodies to slip through if caught,” another officer said. Juveniles are preferred because they get away easily, and get out faster from reform homes if caught. 
 
 
