COIMBATORE: With only weeks left for the beginning of the new academic year, officials from the transport, police and education departments have started inspecting buses and vans belonging to city schools. They inspected about 400 vehicles at the   (PRS) Ground in the city on Tuesday.

 Transport officials said while most of the vehicles were found to adhere to the norms, some didn’t. The officials have asked the schools to rectify the violations and bring the vehicles for inspection by the end of the month.
 
 “We inspected the vehicles based on 19 parameters indicating their condition and safety. Almost all the vehicle adhered to the norms. There were a few vehicles, which needed some rectifications. We have not approved them and have asked the schools to bring them back for inspection,” central regional transport officer S   said.
 
 On Tuesday, a total of 488 vehicles – 271 from south, 120 from central and 97 from   – were listed for inspection. Officials said around 70% of them had turned up. Three vehicles from the Coimbatore south and Sulur regions and five from Coimbatore central region were found lacking and had been given time for rectification.
 
 “We have sent notices to the schools, which had not brought vehicles for inspection,” said an official of the transport department. Also, from this year, along with matriculation school buses,   school buses have also been added to the list.
 
 Inspector of matriculation schools R  , who was also present at the inspection venue, said while there was general awareness among private schools about the rules pertaining to school buses, some vehicles still had minor issues to be dealt with. “While almost all school buses had complied with the rules in the safety aspect, some had issues with the painting and seat covers,” she said and added that from this year they have recommended that private school bus drivers wear name badges.
 
 The inspection of school vehicles was started in 2012 under the Tami Nadu Motor Vehicle Rules (Regulation and Control of School Buses) Special Rules, 2012, based on the ruling of the Madras high court. Along with the condition and safety aspects such as emergency exits, the presence of speed governors, first aid boxes and student log book are inspected.
 
 The first phase of the inspection was over on Tuesday. Inspection for 498 school vehicles from west and north regions will be held on Thursday.
 
 
