INDORE: A day after some men claiming to be members of  's backward classes cell barged into   accusing it of wrongfully issuing transfer certificate to students, associations of private schools on Saturday have urged police to take stern action against 'the anti-social elements' to prevent it from becoming a precedence. 

  schools came out with a statement claiming that the manner in which the men had entered the principal's office and levelled certain allegations sets a precedence allowing others to follow suit. "The schools and principals should be provided security," the statement said, claiming that the private schools are feeling insecure under the circumstances.
 
 "Following the unfortunate incident, our association members visited Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar, met the principal,   and extended our support. The entire incident was unfortunate, where the miscreants created ruckus and panic. We condemn the incident and will not tolerate it," association president   told TOI. Later, Nehru,   and principals of different private schools met   and demanded immediate arrest of the protesters. "None of the protesters' children are studying in Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar and the allegations against the institute were baseless. We have demanded immediate arrest and strict actions against them," said Soni. He added that if their demands are not met, the private schools and students will launch a series of protests and stage dharna at Regal Square.
 
 He alleged that some anti-social elements are conspiring against private schools; their motive could be anything, from blackmailing to earning cheap publicity. The police should take it seriously. Meanwhile, Lasudia police have registered FIR under Section 143, 147 and 451 of IPC against unidentified miscreants, who created ruckus in the school.
 
 "After receiving a complaint from the school management, a preliminary investigation was launched and FIR has been registered in the matter," a police official said. He added that CCTV footage will be examined for identification and arrest of the protesters.
 
 
