BENGALURU: Three men terrorised a family with knives and kidnapped a four-year-old girl from her residence in   near  , but the terrifying incident had a rare happy ending as the girl was safely restored to her family. 

 The kidnappers developed cold feet after learning cops were on their trail and abandoned the captive in a Jayanagar park from where she was rescued. They are still at large, but police are confident of nabbing them.
 
  The ordeal for Raju, a centring contractor, and his family began on Tuesday evening when three men arrived in an auto in front of their house.   police of Ramanagaram district, under whose jurisdiction the crime falls, said Raju and his wife, Kavana, were playing with their kids - four-year-old Inchara and 18-month-old Satwik - just outside their home. 
 
 "Two of the men, who were holding knives, got down from the auto and one them punched Raju in the stomach and   him with the knife," Kaggalipura police quoted from a complaint filed by Kavana. "The miscreants shoved all of them into the house. They slashed Raju and his mother Venkatamma and threatened to kill the children if anyone shouted for help. After terrorizing the family members, they took Inchara and fled."
 
 Kavana told police she "held Satwik tight with fear after one of the men held a knife to his   and threatened to kill him".
 
 The miscreants told Raju they would release Inchara if he paid a ransom. They said they would get in touch by phone and left after locking Raju and the others in the house. Alerted by their shouts for help, neighbours opened the door which had been bolted from outside.
 
  Shortly later, the gang called Raju and demanded a ransom of Rs 6 lakh. They threatened to kill the girl if he did not comply or if he alerted police. However, Raju, on the advice of friends, approached the cops around 9pm. 
 
 Police registered a case of kidnap for ransom and swung into action even as the kidnappers kept calling Raju, who stalled them by saying he wanted the ransom amount reduced. The kidnappers dropped their demand to Rs 5 lakh, Rs 3 lakh and finally to Rs 60,000 by Wednesday.
 
  By then Kaggalipura police had traced the kidnappers to Jayanagar and had asked their counterparts there for help. The kidnappers, realizing police were on their trail, were spooked. They left Inchara in a park around noon and fled. Jayanagar police rescued the girl and handed her over to Kaggalipura police. Police said Raju and Venkatamma were treated in a private hospital for knife injuries. 
 
 "We have strong leads about the identities of the kidnappers and will nab them soon," M K Thammaiah, deputy superintendent of police, Ramanagara sub-division, said. 
 
 
