JAIPUR: One of the best inspirational books that have been written in the recent times, The Test of My Life by  , is one of the best examples of how a cricketer fights a battle against cancer in his life to survive against all odds. Perhaps taking a cue of this, Rajasthan Royals’ skipper Ajinkya Rahane along with his teammates Heinrich Klaasen, Krishnappa   and Mahipal Lomror on Wednesday got themselves screened at the SMS Hospital in an urge to promote early cancer screening.

 
 In association with Tata Trusts, the Royals launched a statewide ‘Cancer Out’ campaign to popularise the practice of cancer screening. It will be run with the support of the Rajasthan state government, National Cancer Grid, Indian Cancer Society and Indian Dental Association in the north-western India state.
 
 Rahane appealed to all Royals fans to take the onus towards educating others, push themselves for early screening and hence forth promote early screening among others as well. All above 30 years of age must opt for screening themselves on annual basis.
 
 “As a player I think this initiative is a small but crucial step towards a direction of cancer free society and I hope that we perform to the best of our ability to raise as much awareness as we can.”
 
 The initiative is being launched to lay emphasis on saving hundreds of thousands of preventable deaths each year through awareness and education about cancer and its risk factors. The   players even emphaised for cancer diagnosis and treatment access to be prioritised all across Rajasthan.
 
 To further generate mass awareness, the Royals will on Friday don the special jersey which has been created with a blend of three colours -- pink, teal and burgundy.
 
 The home match against the Chennai Super Kings will be dedicated to the cause of popularising early cancer screening among all as part of Cancer Out campaign.
 
 Gowtham, who got himself screened for an oral cancer stated that, “I feel privileged to be part of such a noble initiative. Cancer screening leads to early detection, hence we will appeal to one and all to make screenings a part of their annual health check ups.”
 
 In an attempt to further amplify the campaign and connect with the city, Tata Trusts has taken the initiative to light up the city with pink lights across prime locations. The front side of Amber Fort and Hawa Mahal, Birla Mandir, Vidhan Sabha, Sawai Mansingh Stadium and many more peculiar places of Jaipur city including the Taj Hotels will be lit up in Pink from 7 pm to 1 am on May 10 and May 11.
 
 
