LUCKNOW: A special remand court of additional chief judicial magistrate (VII) Sunil Kumar on Sunday sent   rape case co-accused Shashi Singh to four-day CBI custody on the agency’s plea for police custody remand (PCR). Shashi was not represented by any counsel in the special remand magistrate’s court.

 
 
  
 
 CBI officials told TOI that Atul Singh Sengar, younger brother of accused BJP   Kuldeep Singh Sengar, would also be taken into custody and interrogated about the whole episode.
 
 Later, Atul’s four aides Vinit Mishra, Sonu, Shailesh and Bauwa who were arrested by Unnao police in the case of the custodial death of the rape survivor’s father would also be quizzed, they said.
 
 Co-accused Shashi Singh was arrested on Saturday by the CBI team for allegedly luring the survivor and taking her to MLA Kuldeep on June 4, 2017 and keeping watch outside the room when the MLA allegedly raped her.
 
 CBI got the medical examination of Shashi Singh done at   around 11.30pm on Saturday. Shashi was brought to the court by a CBI team of DSP KK Tripathi, inspector Akhil Kumar and two constables along with women cops. She kept mum on media questions about her family and whether she was being implicated in the case.
 
 The CBI pleaded for Shashi’s remand stating that it needed it to collect evidence in the case. It said that the team quizzing Sengar had extracted some information from him which they need to cross-check with Shashi.
 
 Senior CBI officials said that MLA Sengar and Shashi were first asked same set of questions while keeping them separately. They were also brought face-to-face and questioned about how long they have been in touch.
 
 The woman will be taken to Unnao and asked to show the alleged crime spot and then the MLA will be taken separately. Both will be questioned about the sequence of events thereafter.
 
 The CBI team said that both the MLA and the woman claim that they do not remember exactly what had happened as stated in the statement of the survivor.
 
