NAGPUR: Nagpur's basketball prodigy   has been named as the   (MIP) of the first   which concluded at the   Academy India in Greater Noida on Tuesday.

 Having made it to probable list of Indian U-16 team last year, Siya became the only city player who was included in the first-of-its-kind initiative for girls by the National Basketball Association (NBA). The three-day camp for country’s best 18 players hosted by the NBA Academy India is the joint initiative of the NBA, International Basketball Federation (Fiba) and the Basketball Federation of India (BFI).
 
 The training camp was conducted by 1996 Olympic gold medalist and Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame member Jennifer Azzi and two-time WNBA champion Ruth Riley.
 
 In an exclusive chat with TOI, Ruth Riley explained why Siya was awarded the MIP. “In every aspect of the game Siya got better. We just explained the moves to her and she just incorporated it in her game. She just did what was expected to. Siya played some incredible defense in her games today and she surely has a bright future.”
 
 Ruth said that she was impressed with the young Indian prospects. “It’s been amazing three days here. I was curious to know the talent level and I am really impressed with what I have seen. A lot of potential and the hunger to learn is there. The skill levels are good and I can say the future is looking bright for basketball in India.”
 
 Siya, who practices at the Shivaji Nagar Gymkhana (SNG) courts, was understandably awed by the experience. “Honestly, these three days have been the of my life so far. I am very happy to win this award. I have improved a lot on my ball handling and defence. Coaches here are amazing.”
 
 “I have learnt team work and lot of improved skills which I can take back home and share it with my teammates,” Siya added.
 
 As apart of the series of basketball development camps a championship game was played between Team Liberty and Team Sparks on Tuesday, with the later winning it 18-8.
 
 In addition to the MIP award to Siya, Bengaluru’s Sanjana Ramesh and Vaishnavi Yadav from Allahabad were declared as the MVP’s for their exceptional skills exhibited during the camp, as well in the championship game.
 
 Grishma Niranjan of Bengaluru won the sharp shooter award while Rajvi Desai from Madhya Pradesh was named as the best defensive player and Pushpa Senthil Kumar from Kerala received the coaches award for exhibiting true sportsmanship and leadership skills on and off the court while Aurangabad’s Khushi Dongre got the best teammate award.
 
 Siya is also a part of the 18 prospects who will participate in the Basketball Without Borders Asia camp which begins at the NBA Academy India from Wednesday.
 
 
