NEW DELHI: Did   cut it too close, did they underestimate ‘wooden spooners’   or did they believe they can pull off a ‘Houdini act’ almost every other season? These are the questions that the fans of   defending champions will ask in the aftermath of their 11-run loss to the Daredevils at the Ferozeshah Kotla which brought an end to their campaign in IPL-11 agonisingly close to the playoffs.

 
 
 
 
 The equation came down to 18 off the final over with two wickets standing. MI’s last hope, Ben Cutting (37, 20b 2x4, 3x6) hit the first ball of the Harshal Patel over for six but holed out off the next ball in the deep. Jasprit Bumrah skied a catch off the first ball he faced and it was over for the glamour team.
 
 MI were in touching distance of a playoff as all the cards had been laid out perfectly in front of them —they needed to beat the Daredevils by any margin and claim that berth. But a scrappy show brought down the curtains for the three-time champions who struggled for consistency all season. After losing the toss to Mumbai boy and DD skipper Shreyas Iyer, Mumbai leaked 174 runs, far too many runs for a wearing Kotla track which has slowed down considerably towards the end of this season.
 
 Mumbai’s highest run-scorer this IPL, Suryakumar Yadav (12 off four balls) started off as if he would achieve the target in double quick time but fell skying rookie leg-spinner Sandeep Lamichhane in the very first over. His opening partner Ewin Lewis (48, 31b, 3x4, 4x6), however, looked in good touch and the only one to get play freely on the track apart from Daredevils’  .
 
 Lewis hit long and strong early, especially off Harshal Patel, taking 17 off his opening over. But Delhi’s leg-spin duo of Lamichhane (3/36) and Amit Mishra (3/19) were the ones who decisively swung the match in the home team’s favour. The latter, in his 11th IPL season, was at his wily best, prising out Lewis, Ishan Kishan and Hardik Pandya (27, 17b, 2x4, 1x6), the last-named possibly Mumbai’s final hope.
 
 Earlier, the Daredevils posted a more than competitive total. Young Prithvi Shaw (12) got run out in the most lackadaisical manner, failing to make his ground. Glenn Maxwell’s forgettable season came to an end with a 18-ball 22 while opening the batting. The total revolved around the brilliance of Pant (64, 44b, 4x4, 4x6) and some big hitting by Vijay Shankar (43 n.o., 30b, 3x4, 2x6). Pant got under the skin off the Mumbai team, especially all-rounder Hardik Pandya with his innovative shots and power hitting down the ground.
 
 But Mumbai would rue what might have been. Just a little more judiciousness in their strokeplay and bit more responsibility from experienced campaigners like skipper Rohit Sharma and Kieran Pollard would have got them over the line. It was a case of so close, yet so far!
 
 
