 

 LUCKNOW: Even as Dalits are protesting against atrocities inflicted on them, BR Ambedkar's 127th birth anniversary on Saturday has given an opportunity to political parties to stake claim to their support for the next election. With the Lok Sabha polls less than a year away, the Dalit icon's birth anniversary celebrations will be of a scale rarely seen in the state 
 
 Union minister Smriti Irani will visit a Dalit dominated village in Amethi, the constituency of   chief Rahul Gandhi, on Saturday. Irani will reach Dalit dominated village of Raipur Phulwari in Amethi and offer tribute at an Ambedkar statue. 
 
 "She will also speak to the locals and address their concerns," said  's Amethi in charge Govind Singh Chauhan. The minister will also flag off a bike rally in Amethi. The BJP, sources said, plans to rope in Dalit youths for the rally. 
 
 Significantly, Irani had found herself in the midst of a controversy in 2016 when she entered into a heated argument with   chief   in Rajya Sabha over the death of Hyderabad based Dalit scholar Rohith Vemula. Irani, the then HRD minister, had confronted Mayawati after the latter demanded inclusion of a Dalit in the inquiry into Vemula's death. The BJP has been attempting to woo Dalits even a host of its MPs go lodge their protest over Dalit atrocities while claiming of reservation provisions being under threat. 
 
 The BJP plans to organise various programmes in the Dalit dominated villages between April 14 and May 5. "The party observes Ambedkar Jayanti as Samajik Samrasta Diwas (social equality day)," said UP BJP spokesperson Rakesh Tripathi. 
 
 Meanwhile,  , which has issued directions to all its zonal units to celebrate Ambedkar Jayanti, has organized an event at its party office in Lucknow which will be presided over by party president Akhilesh Yadav. "We fill first pay floral tributes to Baba Sahib and then will pledge to work for the uplift of the poor and marginalized, as Ambedkar himself did during his lifetime," said SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary. 
 
 The party vehemently denied that this was the first time that it was celebrating Ambedkar Jayanti in such a grand way. BSP has asked supporters to gather at Ambedkar Samjik Parivartan Prateek Sthal on Saturday morning for a celebration. BSP chief Mayawati will not be a part of the programme as she is in Delhi. 
 
 
