KOLKATA: Most flyers have noticed the improvements at the   with cleaner toilets, shorter queues and courteous staffers compared to last year. This has catapulted the airport up the ladder in quality of service to third in the world among mid-sized airports.

 In the latest Airport Service Quality Awards announced by the Airports Council Int’l, the Kolkata airport shared the third spot with two other airports — Cochin and Pune. The segment was for airports handling 5-15 million flyers a year. While the Hyderabad airport topped the chart, two airports — Balikapan in Indonesia and Hohhot in China — shared the second spot.
 
 The last time Kolkata airport got such recognition was in 2014-15, when it was named the most improved airport in Asia-Pacific. While that was expected after the massive upgrade that happened with the integrated terminal replacing the old facility, the latest accolade has come as a pleasant surprise.
 
 Airport director   is glad the efforts paid off and the facility got recognised by the world’s benchmark measure of airport excellence. “The integrated terminal was designed to global specifications. We identified areas where flyers expected better service and worked to improve them,” he said.
 
 The foremost task was the upkeep of the facility. Poor cleanliness of toilets was an issue. It was addressed by inculcating a sense of ownership among the staffers. The result was evident when three-fourth of 3,500 flyers, in the self-satisfaction index kiosk installed outside a toilet, said cleanliness was very good.
 
 Introduction of multiple retail and food and beverage facilities at the airport also improved the flyers’ perception. The airport now offers several shopping and dining opportunities.
 
 “Airports aren’t mere points of departure and arrival. Today, they are complex, multifunctional travel centres offering a wide range of services. Airports have become key drivers of social and economic progress in cities, regions and countries across the world. We have entered into contracts for retail, duty free and food and beverage that have brought in a host of brands in addition to a handsome revenue,” Dikshit said.
 
 Next year, officials have to work harder to retain the ranking or do better as Kolkata airport will move into the group of facilities with 15-25 million annual flyers. In this segment, Bangalore airport was second and Chennai airport was third along with   airport, Indonesia. The top rank was shared by Denpasar airport, Indonesia and Haikou and Sanya airports in China.
 
