COIMBATORE: A year after a 24-year-old man had gone missing from   at   here, the city police have arrested a four-member gang for murdering him during a drunken brawl and burying the body at a graveyard at  .

 Though the arrested have confessed to the crime, they couldn’t help the police with the exact place in the graveyard where they had buried the body since they were under the influence of alcohol and ganja when the crime was committed.
 
 Hence, police could not exhume the skeletal remains of Manikandan, of Surya Nagar at Ondipudur, whose widowed mother had lodged a man missing case with the Singanallur (law & order) police on October 19, 2017. According to the police, Manikandan had gone missing on February 5, 2017.
 
 “We have dug up many places in the graveyard and exhumed skeletal remains of more than 10 people. The arrested told us that they had consumed liquor and smoked ganja on the fateful day and were now finding it difficult to recall the exact place where the body was buried. We arrested the four based on their confession some five days ago. They were later remanded in judicial custody,” an investigating officer said.
 
 The arrested were identified as Jose, Leo Martin, 22 and Senthil, 45, all hailing from Puliyakulam and  , 25, from Ganapathy. All of them have murder cases pending against them with the city police. “They usually kill people, who make them lose their temper,” the officer said.
 
 The police have also altered the man missing case to murder. “We booked them under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code,” the officer said.
 
 The investigating officers said Manikandan, a fruit vendor, was close to the gang and used to roam with them. “His ties with them broke after he allegedly peeped into the bathroom of a woman relative of a gang member while she was taking bath. The four are drug addicts and after the murder, they usually bury the body or dump it in   canal,” the officer added.
 
 
