AGRA: Following the busting of a criminal gang allegedly run by former   (AMU) students,   on Sunday asked the vice-chancellor of the university to ensure that proper records of entry of students are maintained in their hostels and CCTV cameras are installed at all hostel gates.
 
  Aligarh police on Friday night had busted a gang of nine well-qualified youths, most of them AMU alumni, who were involved in heinous crimes including attempt to murder and dacoity, and were taking shelter in an AMU hostel.
  
  Aligarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rajesh Pandey told TOI, “A letter has been sent to the university V-C, Tariq Mansoor, requesting him to take immediate steps in this direction. During interrogation the arrested gang members admitted that they took shelter in an AMU hostel after committing crimes.
  
  “They have all confessed that they were involved in recent cases of violence connected with AMU campus and its student leaders and staff. These include an attempt to kill former AMUSU vice-president  , an attack on AMU pro V-C Tabassum Shahab’s house and firing at SS North Hall in the university campus, in which one student was injured.
  
  According to police, the gang members were nabbed after a brief encounter near Firdaus Nagar on Friday night. The men were sitting in a car when police surrounded them and asked them to surrender. However, the gang members opened fire, and police responded. After a brief exchange of fire, the gang members were arrested.
  
  Police identified the gang leader as Faisal Mustafa, 35, a BTech in civil engineering from AMU, who had also done his MBA. His associates were identified as Dipanshu Srivastava, 24, a bachelor in social work from the university; Ritik Kumar, 19, a Class IX passout from AMU’s school; Mohd Soaib, 23, BTech from Sunrise University, Alwar and a Class XII passout from AMU. The other gang members were  , 23, a technician at Jawahal Lal Nehru Medical College, AMU; Mohd Akram, 24, BA and LLB from Vivekananda Mahavidyalaya; Mumtaz Alam, 30, a Class XII passout from Aligarh; Mohd Salman, 27, an interior designer and Rajat Singh, 24, BTech from GLA University, Mathura. Their four other associates — Daud, Faizan, Maj and   — are still absconding.
  
  According to police, Faisal Mustafa had formed this gang to show his strength in AMU. They were involved in at least 8 criminal cases. Police have recovered one pistol (.32 calibre) along with five live cartridges, a single barrel rifle, a Santro car from Faisal and six country-made pistols, a knife, live .32 cartridges and an SUV from the others.
