CAPE TOWN: As much as this India's tour of South Africa, starting today, is busy making a pitch for itself to get billed as perhaps the series of the year, the pitch itself that's been laid out at the Newlands cricket stadium isn't saying much.

 It's not been the talking point here around the Cape as much as it was expected to be when South Africa announced a fullstrength squad for this Test series last month and the experienced   as part of it.
 
 
 
 
 Steyn's participation in this Test looked doubtful until the eve of the game even as skipper   preferred using the 'problem of plenty' line post his team's practice session. As for Team India, who've been around here for a week already, they didn't bother coming to the Newlands on Thursday.
 
 
 
 
 As the first of the three-Test series beckons, both teams, and India more than South Africa, would know the importance of the first day of a first Test. Bat or bowl, Day One often sets the precedent for whatever can follow.
 
 
 
 
 The moisture in the track aside, an element that can only be gauged on the morning of the match, it's not the pitch that would've been bothering the Indians as much as making the pitch. As  , the team's batting coach, said: "What we really focus on is our own inward processes, how our mental approach is, how our mindset is in terms of batting rhythm where we stand. So the opposition doesn't really matter nor do the conditions."
 
  
  
 The conditions here, of course, are something even the locals get baffled with. To understand the weather in Cape Town, the port city surrounded by gleaming blue waters on all sides but one, it's important to keep looking at the spectacular Table Mountain, a flattop highland overlooking the city. Within an hour, the peaks can find themselves covered in a blanket of grumpy clouds or could show themselves off against the crisp blue sky. The glorious mountain, in many ways, is singularly responsible for the sun shining on Newlands or shying away into the clouds and a session of cricket here is often enough to provide those multiple shades.
 
 It is here, in 2011, that India had come tantalisingly close to winning a series in South Africa, a feat that's still waiting to be accomplished after 25 years. And they're here now, making another attempt, and what many see as perhaps their best opportunity to do what's never been done before.
 
 Ravi Shastri, the coach, walked in members of the support staff at the lands on Thursday afternoon to take a at the wicket. Match referee   was also out there in the middle and the met. This happened right when a clear sky hovering over the city became all cloudy and the Table Mountain went into hiding.
 
 Shastri would know better than most not to bother with the pitch, even as experts have gone about deciphering the many shades of green that's been visible to them on the track. Back in 2011 too, a team that included  , the Cape Town wicket remained much scrutinised. And for all the 'greenish tinge' they had talked about, it remained a good batting wicket.
 
 Du Plessis put that into perspective. "I enjoy talking about the pitch. I like the fact that there is some sort of preference that we can try to get an advantage (from)," he said. He was referring to the 'build-up'. Shastri is certain he wants to avoid just that.
 
 
 
 Looks like Team India are willing to go with their in-form batsmen, meaning Rohit Sharma, who was in cracking touch back home in the recent series against Sri Lanka, might find himself in the playing XI ahead of his Mumbai teammate Ajinkya Rahane.
 
 With 554 runs from his last 11 Tests at an average of 34.63, Rahane has struggled. And while there’s no question about his Test credentials, if the team’s think-tank decides to pick players on current form, Sharma could just get the look-in.
 
 Meanwhile, Shikhar Dhawan, after injuring his ankle ahead of the team’s departure in Mumbai, may have recovered in time to retain his position ahead of KL Rahul. If Dhawan and Sharma get in, India may still get to keep allrounder Hardik Pandya in the squad, only if Rahane is left out.
 
 
