GURUGRAM: A 65-year-old woman was killed while two men and two women were seriously injured after a head-on collision between an   and a school bus in a village in Farrukhnagar on Saturday morning. Police said the kids in the bus were not hurt but CCTV footage showed one person falling off the bus. 

 A family of seven, all   in Mahendergarh’s Ateli, was headed towards Sheetla Mata mandir in Gurugram in a white Scorpio. According to police, Kailash Devi (65), who was sitting at the back of the car, sustained head injuries and was declared dead when she was taken to hospital. 
 
 Her son Upender, who was driving, suffered injuries in his head and other parts of the body and is battling for his life in Manesar’s Rockland hospital. His brother Ravinder, who was sitting next to him, also sustained injuries but is stable. Their wives, Khusboo and Renu, are also being treated at the hospital. Deepak, Ravinder’s brother-in-law, was hurt too but Ravinder and Renu’s 13-year-old daughter Muskaan escaped unhurt.
 
 The school bus was picking up students of Suraj school from Kahaswpur village and was headed towards the Jamalpur side. According to police, the children in the bus have not sustained any substantial injuries. A CCTV camera which captured the   shows a person falling off the bus. However, police claimed no one fell off, though eyewitnesses claimed a girl had fallen from the bus in the impact. The school authorities said nearly 30 children were in the bus. 
 
 The car’s front portion was entirely damaged in the crash. The bus was not damaged much because after the collision, it got stuck in a heap of sand dumped at a construction site. The sand absorbed the shock of the accident, according to eyewitnesses. “If the bus had not hit the heap of sand, the children could have been injured,” said a cop.
 
 Government Primary School, Khawaspur village, is located close to the site of the accident. Neelam, a teacher of the school who reached there minutes after the accident, said, “The injured were taken out with the help of the locals.”
 
 Cops said they reached the spot soon and ferried the injured in a private vehicle to Rockland hospital. On the complaint of Ravinder, cops filed an FIR against the bus driver at Farrukhnagar police station under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the IPC, said inspector Karan Singh, SHO. “The bus driver was speeding and crashed into our car,” Ravinder told the police. The investigating officer said, “We impounded the bus. The driver is yet to be arrested.”
 
