TRICHY: A rare panel with ritualistic dancers of Nayak period and an inscribed Chola pillar were found by local residents, near Pattalappettai, a tiny hamlet near Kiliyur in Trichy district, on Saturday.

 On receiving information from residents M Murugaesan and   of the village, historians arrived at the village and carried out further study in the area. The historians dubbed the finding a rare occurrence as it was the first time dancing pairs doing ritualistic cultural performance in embraced state was found. 
 
 They said that historian had earlier unearthed dance sculptures of different dynastic periods several times in  , but one was of this type. Following the discovery, the historians urged the Central and state archaeologists to carry out exploration in the Pattalappettai village which is considered rich with hidden cultural treasures.
 
 The dance panel is depicted on a stone slab that measures 1.21 meters in length and 33 centimetre in height. Four pairs of well-dressed male and female dancers where the women are clad in silk dress holding some object in one of their hands are visibly engaged in a ritualistic dance.
 
 Three pairs are shown hugging each other while the last pair is dancing keeping a distance between. All of them are decked with ornaments and different head gears.  , director of M Rajamanikkanar Centre for Historical Research, Trichy, said the the study at the site has yielded a rare dance panel of Nayak period and an inscribed pillar of Chola period.
 
 “The female deity with a flower in the right hand side seen between the first two pairs and the pot depicted between the last two pairs denote the ritualistic nature of the dance,” says R Kalaikkovan, director of M Rajamanikkanar Centre for Historical Research, Trichy. 
 
 He said, “The ancient Tamil literature   has rich references to such ritualistic performances among rural folks. This type of embracing pairs dramatizing a ritualistic cultural performance is a rare occurrence and in that this particular panel gains much importance and is a significant find.”
 
 The round pillar that has an inscribed base measures 1.44 m. in length and its circumference is 66 cm. It is shaped into a tall   at a later period. The base is almost a square and has a Tamil inscription of Chola paleography with a few grantha letters used in between. Though seven lines are visible, the last two are not readable.
 
 “The inscription records that a certain Rejaladeviyar Sativinjey queen of Iladevayan had gifted that pillar. A sketchy figure of a Mugalinga is seen sculpted on the first half of the pillar, suggesting its conversion into a Linga,” says M. Nalini, Head, Department of History, Seethalakshmi Ramaswami College also an epigraphist who was part of the explorative study at the village.
 
 The rare finds at the mound suggest its historical importance and the villagers expect a full scale excavation by the state and the central teams of archaeologists here to bring out the hidden cultural treasures.
 
 
