Very few actresses enjoy the status that   does in the south film industry. Even if there is a break between her films, scriptwriters and filmmakers ensure that they approach her only with “characters of substance”. And that’s because it’s an aspect she has demanded from the start of her film career. A career which she says chose her and not the other way around.

 Her upcoming multilingual Prana, in which she plays a writer battling intolerance, also has a lot of firsts. The   directorial is a single-actor project that had Nithya performing in four languages –Malayalam, Telugu, Kannada and Hindi – back to back. It is also apparently the first Indian attempt shot using sync surround sound, according to its sound designer  .
 
 The actress talks to us about the unique experience, her views on freedom of expression and the prevalent misogyny:
 
 
 
 It was not easy at all. I’ve done bilinguals and to do the same shot in two different languages has been a pain for me. So, doing it four times was actually hitting the peak. I don’t think anyone has done something like this. The good thing was that I knew all four languages. So basically I did whichever I was most comfortable with first and did the next three one after the other. Since it was shot in sync surround, even if there was a small issue with the background sound, we had to redo the whole shot. So, everything had to be perfect.
 
 
 
 Kannada is something I speak all the time because I live in Bengaluru and when you converse in a language often, you become fluent in it. I also tend to be extremely comfortable in the language I did my previous film because your dialogues are in that language and you also talk to people. In this case it was Telugu. Malayalam was easy because the script was conceived and written in the language and I heard the narration too in it. I am not that fluent in Hindi but I can speak.
 
 
 
 It became tougher because it was just me. I had to work the whole time; I didn’t get a breather. I am there in every shot from morning to evening. Workwise it can be taxing even though the shoot goes according to my pace.
 
 
 
 The process that was extremely challenging was getting the script done. I was the one who was familiar with Telugu and Kannada, and so had to oversee most of the dialogues in these languages and even in Hindi. Before the shooting started, I spent days working with the dialogue writers, going through the lines and correcting them as there was a language barrier for everyone except me.
 
 There had to someone who could mediate and communicate what the Malayalam script conveyed because I was extremely particular that other language scripts had to be as good as the original. When you conceive a script in a particular language, it has a depth and I didn’t want the other versions to just be lacklustre translations. I think it’s the first time in my life that I am involved in that kind of scripting.
 
 
 
 I believe people should be able to do anything they want without fear. I’m not saying any rubbish can be spoken or written. But when someone is trying to express the truth about what is happening, they shouldn’t feel threatened or believe they should adhere to the vox populi as that’s the safer option. I think that creates an unhealthy environment in the society which in turn leads to a lot of issues.
 
 That’s the reason I connected immediately with Prana’s script which talks about a writer being able to write what she feels like and creatively interpret it. I believe freedom of expression is essential to have a healthy society.
 
 
 
 We started working on this film two months before the incident. We all called each other when we learnt about it. It was so strange when that happened because our film was talking about such instances. Somehow I believe relevancy was brought to it but we were not looking at any particular incident when we began.
 
 
 
 I think this whole thing cannot be specified just to the film industry. This is prevalent everywhere in the world. The film industry is just part of a bigger cake. So, whatever is in that cake will be in that slice too. There is nothing in the film industry which is different from the rest of the world. In that general sense, yes it’s absolutely a patriarchal society and things are definitely easier for men. It’s a bit more difficult for women to be taken seriously and to get respect from people.
 
 It’s been the case for centuries. I have come to accept it. I am not saying it is right or wrong, but that is how it is. I don’t see gender when I look at the world. I have met fantastic men in my life and horrible women. I have also met some amazing women and terrible men. I have seen women who are sexists. So, you can’t bring gender into it as it becomes gross. That’s not how it works. I believe the distinction must be based on good and bad human beings.
 
 
 
 Misogyny is not okay at all. I believe an ideal society has to value women very highly. I believe in the strength of the feminine. However, I don’t think any amount of fighting or expressing your views in a masculine way is going to counter the conditioning. I just think that we should be who we are and be able to express our strengths. If we are women, be absolutely feminine about it and show the world what is the respectable thing to do. Show that beauty in the way only a woman can do.
 
 
 
 It will definitely be a movie that would draw a lot of attention. It deals with content that I think the Telugu industry has never seen before. It’s a bold and brave movie, and my character too is different. I can’t reveal more about it but jaws will drop for sure.
 
 
 
 Despite being as selective as I was, I haven’t had a break till last year. So it’s something recent for me and something I chose. For me, priority is life rather than just a career. Along with work, you have to focus on other things like your health. Even during my breaks, I hear scripts. I am not thinking whether the hiatus affects my career or not; I just go by what I feel has to be done at that time.
 
 
 
 It’s the experience, as in the journey life takes you through. Films have been an important part of that because it chose me and not vice versa. Life, when I began my career till now, has taught me so much. I think that knowledge, understanding and the ability to gain clarity about things make you calm automatically. I think I have always been a tranquil person; it’s just that certain situations get you worked up. But this is who I am.
 
