As we celebrate the World Interiors Day on May 26, let’s get down to the basics and talk about futuristic homes that are greener and healthier.

 Nestled amidst lush green surroundings, a quiet little home is what we all seek. With ‘green’ becoming the buzzword for the future, the interiors industry isn’t leaving it untouched either. It is going ahead in full steam to offer options that are  . While this is quite thoughtful, the question is how, at our end, can we transform our home into a green home? Here’s a lowdown on everything you ever wanted to know about futuristic homes.
 
 
 
 
 Tall trees and a beautiful garden isn’t all that is needed to call ‘green’. Before knowing the importance of an eco-friendly, ‘green’ home, you must know the things that go into the making of such a home. A green home is an amalgamation of a lot of factors. Use of local and natural materials, rain water harvesting systems, water treatment systems, solar water heaters, coupled with good ventilation and natural lighting are some aspects that come together to make a ‘green’ home.
 
 Setting an example, Chander   a creative designer got his house done in a way that it can truly be called a nature’s nest. The temperature in his home during summers is almost 10 degrees cooler as compared to the outside temperature, that too without any air conditioner at home. So, what has made this possible? He explains, “People in the bygone eras had ample open spaces in their homes and plenty of natural light. Why can’t we do the same? If you see the Mughal architecture, those buildings are still standing tall and strong, these buildings are made of sandstone and bricks. These days, people use a lot of metals in the construction stage that heat up very fast. So, choose the construction material wisely.” Shekhar studied the positioning of the sun before the construction of his house started. Thanks to his research, he feels cool during summer months and warm during the winters.
 
 
 
 
 For those who already have homes constructed,  , an architect recommends, “Add insulation to the walls; get double glazing, insulated window frames; high efficiency appliances; energy-efficient tube lights and CFLs; make provision for water recycling, etc., to make your home energy efficient. While renovating your home, you can use less dense materials. Marble is a porous stone and is more environmentfriendly. Today, a lot of people use granite without realising that it is a dense stone. It is good for kitchen slabs, but since it absorbs a lot of heat, it isn’t fit for the rest of the home.”
 
 
 
 
 If you feel that a ‘green’ home costs a lot, think again. An ecological home benefits the owner because it is lighter on the pocket as far as maintenance is concerned. Being energy efficient can be achieved by using the right kind of appliances as well as through behavioural aspects. “Leaving electrical appliances on in the sockets should be avoided as much as possible. Solar water heaters and cookers are not very expensive but surely solar lighting is. Still the use of alternative lighting should be encouraged so as to reduce stress on the existing facilities and to make the eventual cost of the same lower as demand rises,” suggests  , an architect who has been working on eco-friendly projects.
 
 Mother Nature has given us everything, but now her reserves are depleting at a fast pace. This World Interiors Day, let’s start giving it back to the nature by investing in a ‘green’ home and save natural resources for the generations to come!
 
 
