Thiruvananthapuram: The unequal distribution of benefits from Centre-sponsored schemes such as Smart City and   is posing challenges for the city corporation in getting the approval of the council for phase-wise implementation of projects.

 The ruling council had saved itself from the wrath of councillors through a public voting system in Smart City area selection. Still, many councillors had expressed dissatisfaction over the fact that 1403.33 acres chosen for area-based development (ABD) under Smart City project accounts only for 2.6% of city area. Less than 15   were included in ABD which had triggered widespread murmurs of dissent in the council meeting.
 
 The corporation is now facing greater dissent over getting approvals for various components under AMRUT. The latest council meeting had witnessed opposition councillors raising doubts over the inclusion of certain wards for stormwater drainage projects.
 
 Although the opposition was assured that all wards would be equally covered, going by the zone-based distribution of wards prepared by KITCO and eventual phase-wise planning conceived by the project wing, the stormwater drainage network under AMRUT would cover a maximum of 70 wards and remaining wards are less likely to be covered under the   owing to technical factors.
 
 As per state annual action plan 1 (SAAP 1), 40 works were included in 27 wards for stormwater drainage of which seven works were tendered. A preliminary study of requisites of the city with regard to stormwater drains by KITCO had divided city into five zones, covering all wards.
 
 The corporation decided to combine SAAP 2 and 3 and proposed to cover 30 wards in phase 1 at a cost of Rs 43.09 crore. Change in specification could save Rs 11 crore and it was decided to utilize this amount in 20 wards. With six wards of SAAP 1 repeating in phase 1, the number of wards was revised as 24. Of the 20 wards, two wards had repeated and it was again revised to 18.
 
 The LDF might be in for some heated debate in the council meetings regarding approval of projects under stormwater drainage schemes under AMRUT. It is less likely that projects could be executed as per the division of zones prepared by KITCO which had identified 41 wards in central zone, 25 wards in coastal zone, nine wards in north-eastern zone, 12 wards in south-eastern zone and 13 wards in north-western zone.
 
 The corporation needs to execute 51 projects at a cost of Rs 357.5 crore under AMRUT. As per the latest status, technical sanction has been accorded to 38 projects to the tune of Rs 238.29 crore. So far, 27 works have been tendered under water supply, sewerage, stormwater drainage, urban transport and parks. 
 
 The corporation has so far awarded 17 works at a cost of Rs 95.31 crore.
 
 
