TUTICORIN: A comprehensive study to map the rivers and their eco system in the district for flood preparedness through Photogrammetric Mapping was kickstarted on Friday. The initiative under the   Innovative Initiatives (Round – I) Schemes using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) is implemented by the State Disaster and Response Force.

 The project has been taken up in collaboration with Anna University’s Centre for Aerospace Research, Madras Institute of Technology campus. Teams from the varsity which will be handling the UAVs and conducting field level survey were flagged off at   24 Marugal Odai (channel) in   near   city.
 
 District collector   who flagged off the survey said that a total of 209.22 square kilometres in the district covering   River, Korampallam and   and 36 flood-prone and vulnerable areas in the district would be surveyed using UAVs. While Thamirabarani is 131 kms long, the stretch of 47 kms running through this district and its entire eco system will be covered in the survey.
 
 Among the import systems of the river to be covered using UAVs are Marudur Anicut and Srivaikundam Anicut along the course of Thamirabarani river, all the four main channels – Marudur Melakkal, Marudur Keelakkal, South Main Channel and North Main Channel. “Drones will fly at not more than 175 metres height to ensure better clarity of images. The study would be completed in 45 to 60 days,” he said.
 
 The collector said that the mapping will help identify flood-prone areas, identification of locations for construction of check dams and other structures to regulate and store excess water. It would also help identify disconnected routes and obstructions in the course of rivers and channels and clear the same for preventing floods. It will also aid in identifying the shortest routes to lay roads across the water bodies.
 
 Tuticorin sub collector N S Prasanth said that the study would be followed by photogrammetry, wherein high resolution images that have been captured using UAVs will be weaved to make a 3D map of high resolution and accuracy. “Accuracy will be four centimetres. Survey will be followed by floor modelling that would help us understand the levels and how and where water would flood,” he said.
 
 The sub collector said that at present they are engaged in disaster mitigation with traditional technical knowledge and using satellite imaging and maps, which were not accurate for flood planning. Officials said that the study would help them carry out flood preparedness before the onset of the monsoon this year and give a permanent solution in the next few years. It is learnt that the UAV study has been completed at Cuddalore and that it is underway at Madurai.
 
 
