 Mishra, the 23-year-old National Award winning actress, was recently spotted selling   at a shop in Hazratganj. As part of a promotional activity for her latest TV show 'Bitti Business Wali', Prakruti who plays Bitti in the show, prepared paan and sold it to the crowd that had gathered at the shop to see a girl selling paan.
 While a few men were amused to see Prakruti selling paan, a few were reluctant to buy one from a woman. "See, that is the problem. People have a set mind that a girl can do only a particular kind of job. Whereas that's not true! A girl can do anything and be good at it too. Most of the people I have served paan to here have liked it, including the paan wallah. If given a chance, girls can excel at anything. There is nothing that they can't do," she emphasizes. 
 
  
  Regular customers at this paan shop near the SBI Headquarters in  , were surprised to see a pretty girl selling paan (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
 Among those who appreciated Prakruti’s efforts was  , a central government employee, who was amused to see a girl prepare a paan and then sell it to him. "Pehli baar dekha kisi mahila ko paan bech kar apna business badhate hue. Yeh dekh kar bahut achhaa laga ki mahilayen apne development ki liye khud kaam kar rahi hain," he said. 
 "Pehli baar kisi mahila ko apni aarthik azadi ke liye paan bechte hue dekha, yeh bahut acchi baat hai aur samaj mein aise badlaav hote rehene chahiye," added Rajesh Pandey, a central government employee, who readily took a paan made by Prakruti and even complimented her on how well she had made it. 
 This being her first visit to Lucknow, Prakruti spoke about the things she planned to do in Lucknow, "I am coming to Lucknow for the first time and I’m really excited to explore this beautiful city of Nawabs. I have heard so much about this city and I’m looking forward to eat some good food and visit some beautiful places in the evening."
 
  
  Paan naush farmaiye: Prakruti Mishra serving paan to customers (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
 Prakruti recently won the National Award for her portrayal of Arsi in an Odia movie titled 'Hello Arsi'. When asked about the changes in her life post the award, she says, "It hasn't been long enough for me to see any noticeable change since I got the National Award. I was offered this show before the awards were announced. But yes, life has really changed in terms of work. Now people pay more attention to me and my work."
 
  
  Paan naush farmaiye: Prakruti Mishra serving paan to customers (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
 Speaking about the relevance of her show in today’s scenario, Prakruti says, "Nowadays almost every woman is trying to be progressive but there are still many of us who are not financially independent. I think this concept will help in bringing about a change in the mind-set of the people and make them realize that everyone has the right to work and everyone should be financially independent, irrespective of their gender."
 Talking about her Bollywood aspirations, Prakruti says, "Yes, I would definitely love to work in Bollywood. But right now I’m focusing on TV because I don’t find any difference between TV and films, these days. Artists nowadays are switching from films to TV and TV to films."
 — Rahul Goreja
 
 
