NEW DELHI: Be it reduced cash flow in the economy or after-effects of panic created by rumours of currency scarcity, the shortage of cash in Delhi was actually felt on Wednesday when ATMs in a large number of areas went dry even as people hopped from one machine to another. A few machines that were functional had large queues of cash-seekers since early morning.

 Areas around south Delhi’s RK Puram, Munirka, Ber Sarai and old JNU campus had only a couple of functional ATMs by afternoon. ATMs of all major banks — SBI, PNB, Oriental Bank — were found with signs like “No Cash”, “ATM not functional” hanging outside.
 
 Varun Saxena, a UPSC aspirant trying his luck at an   in old JNU campus, said that an artificial scarcity has been created. “Everything was fine till yesterday. People started hoarding cash after listening to news of crisis in several states,” he added.
 
 On the other side of the city, areas like Kashmere Gate, Deoli, Paharganj, Jhandewalan and Dilshad Garden too faced a similar situation. There were few functional ATMs with long queues in front of them.
 
 Narendra Kumar Mishra, a resident of Lucknow who was visiting Delhi, said, “I checked six ATMs but all of them were not dispensing notes. I have run out of cash. It feels as if demonetisation days have returned. Such incidents, when we can’t access our own money, shake our trust in the banking system,” he added.
 
 Some trade bodies claimed that the ATM crisis had led to reduced business on the occasion of Akshay Tritiya. “Many wholesale distribution hubs in Delhi are visited by thousands of traders from outside, but all transactions have stopped due to lack of cash. This is reminiscent of demonetisation days,” said Brijesh Goyal, convener of Chamber of Trader and Industries.
 
 When a TOI team visited 12 ATMs in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar and neighbouring areas, most of them were found operational. Even in Connaught Place and Khan Market most of the ATMs were working, but high denomination notes were not available.
 
 The situation was relatively better at Jangpura’s Birbal Road where a Kotak Mahindra ATM was found having both Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 notes. An HDFC ATM a few hundred metres away also had cash, albeit only in Rs 2,000 notes. “One of the machines is not working, but the other has Rs 2,000 notes.   arrived yesterday,” said a guard. NCR areas, like Noida, Greater Noida and Gurgaon, fared relatively better. By evening, there were reports of things returning to normal at few places when banks started replenishing the ATMs with cash.
 
 
