NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party   chief minister Arvind  ,  , and the AAP government against the Anti Corruption Bureau’s charges related to   of a   on Thursday. It accused the   of   political vendetta and said that the ACB will be exposed in court. 

 The work had been awarded to a firm owned by Vinay’s father, Late Surender Bansal, who was a government contractor for many years, the party has pointed out. “It is not as if he started working with Delhi government after AAP came to power. Bansal’s firm got the contract around one month before Arvind Kejriwal became the chief minister in February 2015. That is why there is no question of the tender being rigged by Kejriwal to favour Bansal,” said the party’s Delhi Chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj. 
  
  
 Rejecting the allegation of a scam and the charge that payment was made to Bansal’s firm for substandard or incomplete drain work, the party said that after the drain was constructed, third-party certification of the quality of construction was done by IIT-Roorkee. The work was again inspected by Shriram Institute for Industrial Research — when the FIR was lodged — and the quality of materials used was certified. “In both verifications, the construction work was given a clean chit,” asserted Bharadwaj.
 
 “There could have been only two ways of corruption in PWD drain construction – rigging the tender to favour the chief minister’s relative and payment made for substandard or incomplete work. In this case, nothing of this sort happened. Then where is the corruption,” asked Bharadwaj.
 
 Lashing out at the BJP government at the Centre, the party said it was now stooping too low to malign the name of Kejriwal. Blaming PM Narendra Modi for it, sources in AAP said that after the Government got Kejriwal raided by CBI and Delhi Police and failed to get any evidence of wrongdoing, it has turned its attention to Kejriwal’s relatives.
 
 Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said: “Delhi Police and ACB are being used by the LG and Central Government for arresting AAP leaders. This is part of the chain of arrests of AAP MLAs,” he observed. Sisodia asserted that ACB and police will be “exposed” in court.
 
 “The family of Vinay is worried about his health. He fainted in the courtroom,” said Bharadwaj, alleging that Vinay’s father too was “harassed” by the ACB after the FIRs were lodged against his firm in 2017. Kejriwal has maintained silence on Vinay’s arrest.
 
 The party has emphasized that Surender Bansal was a contractor with PWD for many years before he died last year. “The only fault of Bansal is that he was doing business as usual and his relative became CM. Now he is no more and his son is in jail. This is witch-hunting,” said Bharadwaj.
 
 
