PUNE:   — a staple in most Indian dishes — have suddenly become a part of bovine diet. Thanks to a glut in the market and the steepest price drop witnessed in April in nearly a decade, tomatoes have become cheaper than even fodder.   farmers claim they are getting just Rs 2 for every kg of produce, which does not even cover harvesting costs.

 Usually, tomato prices peak during April because of short supply due to high temperatures. However, statistics available with the   (AGMARKNET) show that the April-2018 prices are the lowest for the vegetable during this month in the past eight years. The tomato glut is evident in the Pune wholesale market as well, where 10 kg of the vegetable is available for between Rs 30 and Rs 80.
 
 Shriram Gadhave, the president of the  , said this is the first time in several years that prices have hit such a low, almost 60% less than the same period last year. “The water table has surged thanks to the rains last year, causing a supply surplus. The prices of many vegetables have dropped because of a glut in markets. Cattle owners in the city and nearby villages have now started taking large quantities of tomatoes and other vegetables left unsold to feed to cattle,” he said.
 
 ND Ghule, assistant secretary, Agricultural Produce Market Committee, Pune, said the increase in tomato supplies led to a drop in prices. “Vegetables such as tomato, eggplant and leaves of beetroot and cauliflower are in demand among them as they have become dirt cheap,” he further said.
 
 “The cattle farmers sometimes take 40 tonnes, or more, at a time for free to feed their cattle,” added Sunil Kumbharkar, who owns a vegetable wholesale firm in Market Yard.
 
 Ramesh Jadhav, a farmer from Malegaon, says he does not know what to do with his 16-acre tomato plantation. “Farmers, who are yet to harvest their tomato crops, are letting cattle loose on their fields so that at least they can be consumed by animals. For the first time in years, the per kilogram price we are getting for tomatoes has plummetted to Rs 2, which does not even meet the harvesting cost,” he said. Last year, tomato prices had peaked during April, which is why farmers had sown more tomatoes this year, he said.
 
 
