CHENNAI: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption (DVAC) is investigating a complaint against former vice-chancellor of Tamil Nadu Dr Ambedkar   (TNDALU) P Vanangamudi that he collected bribes of Rs 20-30 lakh for the appointment of 30 assistant professors stating that the amount would be paid to ‘Garden’ as well as then law minister.   has not specified which ‘Garden’ it means or the name of the minister.

 The details are part of the first FIR registered on Thursday against Vanangamudi and five accused for misusing the 15%   quota in admission. The others are Dr  , professor and head, department of inter-disciplinary studies and director of distance education department, D Jaishankar associate professor in the department of inter-disciplinary studies, V Balaji, in-charge registrar of TNDALU, S K Ashok Kumar, deputy registrar in-charge of TNDALU, and K Rajesh, administrative officer in the office of controller of examinations of the university.
 
 The DVAC FIR states that there was a complaint against the VC and the officials for allegedly collecting Rs 25-30 lakh per applicant and arranging false visas from foreign countries through middle men in East Asian countries for the 15% quota for NRI students in the university.
 
 “It was ascertained that rules and procedures were violated during Vanangamudi’s tenure in academic year 2016-17. Out of 93 students admitted, only 18 were in order. Several documents and certificates required for admission have not been enclosed,” the FIR said.
 
 NRI quota is given when the student’s parent or guardian should be an NRI or an NRI sponsor submits a certificate indicating the relationship with the candidate. Nine documents such as NRI status certificate issued by an Indian embassy, NRI passbook, passport among others have to be submitted.
 
 In one test case of a student admitted in 2015 for a three-year LLB (Hons) course, DVAC found that the NRI status certificate, NRI passbook, certificate of relationship, declaration by parents, eligibility certificate and affidavit by the student and parent were not available. DVAC noted that the rules and procedures were flouted for the NRI quota for possible pecuniary advantages. Vanangamudi was one of the co-ordinators for law admissions during 2013-14, while in 2014-15 and 2015-16 the others were co-ordinators.
 
 In addition, Vanangamudi was re-employed as professor after retirement, which was a violation of procedures. “This is a clear case of conspiracy. The university has been cheated,” a DVAC official said.
 
 A case has been registered for corruption, cheating and criminal conspiracy by the DVAC.
 
 
