LUDHIANA:   intensified in the city on Friday. At 12 degree celsius, day temperature in the city, which woke up to fog on Friday morning, was lower than most cities of Himachal Pradesh. With the met department predicting cold and foggy conditions for the next four days, residents cannot expect much respite.
 
 Day temperature in the city, which was six degrees below normal, is lower than most cities of Himchal Pradesh, including   (14.2 degrees),   (16.4), Solan (16.2), Sundernagar (19.2) and Kangra (19.7). Day temperature in Shimla was just 0.1 degree above Shimla but 7.9 degrees below Jammu. Minimum (night) temperature in the city was recorded at 6.2 degrees celsius, one degree above normal. Relative humidity was recorded at 100%, around 20% above normal.
 
 According to the meteorological department, foggy weather reduced visibility in the city, which was recorded at 50 metres at 8.30am on Friday morning. It improved later in the day to be recorded at 750 metres at 5.30pm on Friday evening.
 
 As cold wave conditions prevailed in the city on Friday, the Met department does not have good news for residents. “Weather is likely to be cold and foggy till January 10, with slim chances of rain or wind. During this time, temperature might witness a gradual fall below normal each day. Also, visibility will be low due to the fog. It will be around 50 metres in the morning and less than 500 metres in the evening”, said director, Met department, Chandigarh Surender Paul. He said there are chances of the wind hitting the city around January 10, which will dissipate the fog and lead to a rise in temperature.
 
 Meanwhile, the meteorological department website forecast till January 9 suggests an increase in day temperature from 12 degrees celsius to 16 degrees celsius whereas minimum temperature is likely to decrease to 4 degrees celsius till January 8.
 
 
 
 
 “It was very cold even during the day and the sunshine was weak. My friends from Himachal and Jammu and Kashmir tell me weather is pleasant there. If weather does not improve in the next few days, I plan to go to Dharamshala with my family”, said  , a businessman from Civil Lines.
 
