Three years ago, a senior industrial manager began translating the 108   of bhakti saint Sri Ramanuja. Hailing from a   family having origins in Srirangam, what   possessed to take up the challenge, was a strong belief in Vaishnavite traditions that had been instilled in him since childhood. However, that was not enough. The more Srinivasan read about Sri Ramanuja, the more meaningful his works became and he started collecting the works. It was challenging, but Srinivasan didn’t look back. The result was an English   of the 108 verses of   that were composed by Thiruvarangatthu Amundanar (Ramanuja Nuttrandadhi), an ardent devotee of the Vaishnavite poet.

 Titled ‘In praise of Sri Ramanuja’, the book gives one lesser known yet significant information about Sri Ramanuja (AD 1017-1137), who was born in a Tamil brahmin family in  . "The 108 verses reflect Ramanuja’s thoughts, ideology and philosophy. Each time I read them, they took me to different zones of knowledge and interpretation. It was a great experience. It took more than 18 months to complete the translation" said Srinivasan, who is on the board of directors of a large engineering company based in Mumbai.
 
 Sri Ramanuja composed nine works in Sanskrit, his magnum opus being ‘Sri Bhashya’, the interpretation of Sage Vyasa’s ‘Brahmasutra’. His extensive early training in Nammazhwar’s ‘Thiruvaimozhi’ was the foundation for his philosophy. "Ramanuja travelled our vast country to preach his simple philosophy of loving god and surrendering to him to attain liberation. He touched every human being with whom he empathised and wanted all of them to be liberated," said the 74-year-old translator of the book.
 
 Swami Vivekananda referred to Sri Ramanuja as a saint of the heart, as his heart went out to the downtrodden. Sri Ramanuja’s philosophy, according to Srinivasan, was practical and not abstract. "It recognised the existential reality of the world. Referred to as Vishishtadvaita, it was woven around a personal god with all auspicious qualities and attributes. It combined the revelations of the Vedas and the outpourings of the Vaishnavite saints from south India called Azhwars. God was not only the end to strive for, but the means as well," he said.
 
 How relevant is Ramanuja today? Srinivasan said he translated the 108 verses aimed mainly at the youth. "The book is meant mainly for those not familiar with classical Tamil. I want the youth to read and understand Sri Ramanuja’s philosophy," he said. The book is published by Notion Press. 
 
 
