The queen of small screen  , who has been entertaining the viewers for countless years, opened up like never before on TED Talks India Nayi Soch. The celebrated television producer, who revolutionized the TV industry, shared her inspirational journey when she took the stage with the host of the show Shah Rukh Khan.

 Daughter of veteran actor Jeetendra, Ekta has seen many tough times in her life and the hard-hitting revelations that she made on the show made many look at her in a new light.
 
 The initial days: Ekta talked about the rejection she faced at the hands of the channels which run after her today to do business with her. She opened up about how the pilot projects kept getting rejected and the channel heads refused to give her a second chance. In addition to that, her father got backlash for supporting her dream. Jeetendra was asked if it was his hobby to bet money on his useless daughter. She talked about the time that her mother had to give away her jewellery so her brother could go overseas for his education as her father had invested all his money in financing her dreams. She bared her soul and talked about the sleepless nights she has spent crying and vomiting. Things took a turn for good when she got her first hit show Hum Paanch. Rest, as they say, is history.
 
 
 Women power in the household: Ekta states that with the advent of the TV shows that she supplied the viewers, the person in Chicago University in his research mentioned that TV paved the way to give women a say in household matters for the first time in India. These were the early 90s when there was no social media and TV and newspapers were the only two media channels. It was this era that saw Ekta addressing issues like Domestic Violence, marital rape, healthcare etc. through her serials like Shanti, Tulsi, Parvati et al. Indian audience started recognizing them as actual Issues.
 
 Sex and Sanskaar: Ekta talked about her controversial film Lipstick Under My Burkha where broached the sensitive topic of #MeriMarzi. She made in your face statements like Sex and Sanskaar are the two aspects attached to the same woman of our society. She had thrown light on both the aspects in her productions by presenting homely characters like sarva gun sampann Tulsi, Parvati etc and then bold characters that one got to see in Lipstick Under My Burkha.
 
  
 Her equation with her father, Jeetendra: Ekta recalled the time her father was advised to buy gold for his daughter instead of investing in her failed pilots. At this, her father gave a befitting reply by saying her 'Gold was within Her'! She said that every girl should find this gold within her and not give up on her dream for getting married. She asks all girls to work even after tying the knot because if the marriage does not work, work will always work.
 
 Follow one's passion: Ekta brought to light that most women always put themselves in the second place and that this mindset should change with time. Women should follow their passion and not curb their inner voice.
 
 This episode was an eye opener which uncovered the hidden aspects of the phenomenon that Ekta Kapoor is.
 
