"I hope in the years that you must spend in jail, you will one day realise the magnitude of your mistake and work towards your penance," said Sunayana Dumala in her statement directed at Adam Purinton, the man convicted for killing her husband   in Kansas, US. This statement of Sunayana was read out by assistant district attorney Aubrey Sample in the Johnson County, Kansas District Court, before judge   pronounced the sentence. 

 "Today's sentencing in the murder of my husband will not bring back my Srinu, but it sends a strong message that hate is never acceptable. I want to thank the district attorney's office and the Olathe police for their efforts to bring him to justice," she said.
 
 Sunayana was not present at the court hall when the sentence was delivered. She had come to India for Kuchibhotla's last rites in Hyderabad after the body was flown from Kansas in February 2017. She subsequently went back to the US. Sunayana paid another visit to Hyderabad for Kuchibhotla's first death anniversary.
 
 In Sunayana's statement that was read out in the court, she recalled how both of them went to the   to pursue their masters. "We had plans to raise our kids here and were leading a normal and happy life. However, our dreams turned short because of one person," she said. Sunayana called February 22, 2017, the worst day of her life. 
 
 "On the afternoon of February 23, I learnt from cops that my husband's murder was premeditated and racially-motivated," she said. "In the few minutes that you have seen Srinu, you built so much hatred for him that you decided he did not deserve to live. What harm did he do to you that you grew so much animosity towards him? He was only enjoying a glass of beer with his friend. I wish you had the ability to see beyond my husband's skin colour," she added.
 
 "And how do you expect me to measure the impact of your ignorance on our lives and dreams? How do you want me to gauge the loss for his mother who carried her child for nine months? Or that father to whom his son was the apple of his eye? Or the brothers who lost their best friend? Both mine and Srinu's dreams got shattered, how will you measure them? Our dreams of having kids and raising them as responsible adults, will you be able to bring that back to us? The pain of my parents who had to witness their daughter's life being shattered, will you be able to reduce any of that?" she questioned.
 
 Subsequently, in a video-recorded reaction to the sentencing, Sunayana said, "We must understand and love one another. I don't want another Sunayana to go through what we have in losing our loved ones. Nothing can fill the void left by this murderous act and the emptiness I feel inside."
 
 "I continue to use what has happened as a platform with the hope of saving others from going through this hell. We must be there for each other and be proactive to build a loving and understanding community for current and future generations. As   and others at Austin's stood up that fateful February night, we must all stand up for each other before more hateful acts occur in our community," she said.
 
 
