PANAJI: Serge Haroche, who won the   prize in physics in 2012, has underscored the need for the private sector to play a major role in financing initiatives in science, even as he emphasised on better collaboration between academia, which are financed by the government, and the private sector in areas of   and scientific research.

 “The government of India, as well as politicians involved in decision making, should understand that you cannot have technology if you do not have strong basics in basic sciences. I know of the popular slogan here, ‘Make In India’, but you cannot Make In India if you do not Invent In India. And to Invent In India, you have to discover the basics in India,” the Nobel laureate told TOI in an exclusive interview here.
 
 He said one can always rely on things that have been discovered elsewhere. “But I think it’s important that if you want to have good people, good scientists, you have to attract them to science. To be attracted to science you need curiosity, you need to be driven by passion and curiosity,” Haroche said.
 
 Stating that the government needed to do more to attract good talent to the study of pure sciences, Haroche said curiosity and passion was what fuels scientific enterprise.
 
 “And once you are into science,” he said, “then you can go into technology because then you understand what the problems are, and what science can do.”
 
 He also said the private sector must invest more in science and not wait for the government. “In order to develop applications, you need startup companies, and then startups need some capital. This capital needs to come from banks and the private sector,” he said.
 
 Haroche, whose main research activities are in the field of quantum optics and quantum information science, is down in Goa for the second edition of the Nobel Prize Series-India 2018, an event that brings together Nobel Laureates and eminent scientists aimed to stimulate innovation and creative thinking among young students of science.
 
 Discussing about his research activities in quantum optics, Haroche said the subject was evoking a lot of interest lately, largely because it was a “boundary between science and technology. One can, use this quantum phenomenon to build new devices in areas like quantum communication, quantum methodology and quantum physics” to help the emergence of quantum technology which, he said, was quite different from artificial intelligence.
 
 On the future of research in atomic physics, Haroche said significant advances made in the development of atomic clocks based on lasers and clocked on atomic transitions could lead to big breakthroughs for mankind.
 
 “The atomic clocks may one day be used to detect gravitational waves in space, if the precision still increases. They may also be used to detect small gravitational effects, and could lead to development of early detectors of cross-motion preceding earthquakes,” he said, adding that India held significant potential in contributing in the field.
 
 
