CHANDIGARH: Despite the police having implemented several stern measures to curb the rampant incidents of snatching in city, all the efforts have fell flat so far. 

 The night patrolling of PCR in city and intra-sectorial areas has also been increased significantly. The   has mandatorily directed area   and SHO to frequently visit the often-attacked snatching spots but nothing has worked for them. A former SSP said that snatching is a rather easy crime to commit which lures more persons in its purview.
 
 Cops have said that drug addiction is primarily the reason behind the escalated snatchings in city. Most of the arrested perpetrators have revealed that they commit the crime to fulfill the desire of their drug addiction and prefer to snatch purses as they can easily lay hands on cash.
 
 Another senior cop said that hassle-free bail in snatching cases is another reason for the crime being so rampant in the city. The miscreants are not afraid of committing the crime again after they are released from the jail. Police further told that due to they are many gangs operating in city. The snatchers mostly use a bike or scooty as it is easy to flee in these vehicles. Police have a list of old and notorious snatchers who are also constantly under the police scanner as and when they come out of.
 
 The arrested snatchers are out on bail for at most two or three months. UT police had formulated and sent a proposal and sent to impose Sections 379 A and 365 B of IPC in the snatching cases to   ( ). However, the cops did not get an affirmation from ministry to apply these sections in snatching cases. As of now, sections 379 and 356 of the IPC, are only applicable in snatching cases in Chandigarh.
 
 In her recent interview with TOI, UT SSP   told that police apply has been intensified in the sectors and checking especially during late night hours to nab the snatchers. Police have also identified dark spots and vulnerable points in city. 
 
 Consequently, the police also got some success with a few of the perps landing in the police net within few hours of the crime. SSP has also told area DSPs to visit the snatching spot along with the SHO's.
 
 
