VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation’s ( ) push for optimising the water storage capacity of several tanks in the district before completion of the Purushothapatnam Lift Irrigation Scheme (PLIS), through the Visakhapatnam Industrial Water Supply Company ( ) and others, has so far not made much progress. 

 
 Earlier, the VIWSCO had appointed a private agency to prepare detailed project reports (DPRs) for ‘Kondakarla Awa’ in Munagapaka mandal, Penjeruvu tank in Yelamanchili mandal and VK Sagaram tank in Rayavaram mandal. While it was planned to enhance the water storage capacity to 2   in Kondakarla Ava, it would be increased to 0.25 TMC in each of Penjeruvu and VK Sagaram. After the consultant allegedly delayed the process, the VIWSCO withdrew the appointment and recalled the tenders. Later, the agency knocked the door of the court and got a stay on the same day of proposed opening of the bids.
 
 On the other hand, even though the DPR was already prepared for the Krishnampalem tank to store about 1 TMC of water by the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC), the officials now want to increase water storage capacity further and are working on a revised DPR.
 
 The work order has so far only been given for the expansion of   in Payakaraopeta to increase its water storage capacity to 1 TMC. Meanwhile, the   had initiated construction works of the Kanithi Balancing Reservoir-2 at an estimated cost of Rs 450 crore with a capacity of 0.5 TMC for its water needs.
 
 A GVMC official said these projects would increase the storage capacity of these water bodies in the district by a total 5 of TMC to get the full appropriation of water from the Purushothapatnam Lift Irrigation Scheme (PLIS) on Godavari. “Once the PLIS is completed, we will get more water from the Yeleru reservoir and these water bodies would help store the surplus water,” said the official.
 
 As part of the PLIS project, water from Godavari would be diverted to Polavaram Left Main Canal (LMC) and thereafter would be pumped into the   to fill the Yeleru reservoir. The water levels in Yeleru reservoir has been reaching dead storage in summer. This is forcing the officials to pump water from the reservoir into Yeleru canal, which otherwise will come through gravity into the canal, from which water is supplied to the city. 
 
