BENGALURU: The   (GFTS) in Jakkur, the country’s oldest flying school, is in trouble again. Even as it faces the threat of its runway being nibbled away by the proposed   link to Kempegowda International Airport, the   has proposed to acquire 2.7 acres (1,1097 sq mts) of the school land to provide connectivity to the neighbouring GKVK Layout. 

 The proposed road will eat into the northern periphery of the school land, reducing the flying school area, which is currently spread over 214 acres.
 
 A notification issued by the BBMP on Monday said the GFTS area is required for the development of a new road to GKVK Layout in Byatarayanapura ward. Apart from flying school land, the BBMP is set to acquire 332 sq mts (0.08 acres) of land belonging to  , for which the civic agency is offering transfer of development rights (TDR). The BBMP has given 10 days to the affected property owners to submit their objections and claims to the acquisition proposal.
 
 The Palike’s move has come as a big jolt to GFTS, founded in 1948 on land allocated by the then  , which is already facing the threat of losing 5 acres to the Metro. The Maharaja had granted land following a government assurance that it’d be used only for aviation-related activities. Currently, 35-40 students are being trained at the institute.
 
 Wing Commander (retd)  , chief flying instructor, GFTS, confirmed the development to TOI and said they have no option but to share the land as it is a government decision. “As of now, we don’t see the road project having a direct impact on flying activities at the school. But it is true that the land belonging to the flying school is getting reduced,”   added.
 
 VIP matter?
 
 Sources in the flying school said the road project is being implemented following pressure from a politician whose house in located in a posh layout nearby and residents in the neighbourhood too have put pressure on the civic body to ensure good road access for them. “We think nobody is concerned about the flying school. The plan is ultimately to shut it down,” they said.
 
 Asked about the concerns of the flying school, a BBMP executive engineer with the Yelahanka zone project division said: “The road is being developed as per provisions of the master plan 2015. Residents of localities near the flying school don’t have proper road access and hence we have issued the notification to acquire land and build the road.” 
 
 
 
 
 The fear of GFTS students and administration of their institute losing land to the proposed Metro rail link to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) remains, with no final word yet on the Metro line there. Dange said BMRCL authorities are yet to conduct a proper survey with regard to the project’s implementation near GFTS. As per last year’s Metro route plans, the airport corridor passing parallel to the highway was to eat into the flying school’s runway space, making it inadequate for flight training. BMRCL authorities have, however, orally assured school officials that their project won’t obstruct the runway.
 
 
 
  
 
