LUDHIANA: Punjab’s drug tag has started to attract heroin smugglers from African countries to Ludhiana. According to data with Ludhiana police commissionerate, 10 people from African countries, most of them living in Delhi, were arrested for allegedly smuggling drugs into the district in the past eight months.

 Though the accused were not drug lords, they were working as mules for a price between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 3 lakh for transporting each consignment, according to sources in police. Most recently, on January 25, Khanna police arrested a 23-year-old woman from Nigeria, Cadra Leo, with 1kg heroin at a check post along Doraha canal. Leo had been living in Palam Mahvir Enclave, New Delhi, and had come to Ludhiana to supply drugs
 .
  deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Gursharan Singh said they were studying the pattern of people from African countries coming to   to supply drugs. “We are trying to identify the masterminds who use them as couriers,” he said.
 
 A Ludhiana rural police investigation, who has questioned one such accused, attributed the growing number of such cases to them knowing about the popularity of heroin in Punjab. “They underestimate our drive against drugs and end up getting arrested,” he said.
 
 Two days before Leo’s arrest, a woman from Uganda, Rozet Namotebi, was caught with 1.5kg heroin concealed in dead fish. She was nabbed with the contraband at Nanaksar, near  . Her co-accused, Mikel Chritian of Nigeria, was arrested three days later from Delhi. On inputs given by him, police seized half a kg of heroin from his rented accommodation in Dakha.
 
 Cops investigating into cases of drug smuggling said the mules mostly supply the narcotics to a local contact person and then that person supplied the drugs to his clients. A cop with Khanna police said there were plenty of reasons behind people from African countries getting tempted to smuggle drugs. “First, they want to make quick money, as most of them are not as financially well-off. Also, back home in most African countries, the stigma surrounding drugs is much less than here,” said the cop. “Many of these people come to India on study and tourist visas, but land up in jail. They are also not aware of stringent laws on   in India. So, they get exploited easily.”
 
