CHENNAI: The blot of graft can stain the venal much longer than they would expect. 

  and Anti-Corruption last week booked   deputy tahsildar T   for accepting a bribe of 12.5 lakh after - as the enforcement agency acknowledged in evidence it cited against him - the official returned the tainted money. 
 
 Investigating officers filed an FIR in the case primarily on the basis of a promissory note that Arumugam drafted on stamp paper, in which the deputy tahsildar promised to return to  , a resident of  , the money that he had received in cash and kind, other work having kept him from being able to perform the illegal favour of processing a deed for a piece of land the complainant had purchased.
 
 According to the  , Mani had in 2015 reached a deal with a landowner,  , to purchase a 13,312sqft site in  , around 25km south of the city airport along GST Road. 
 
 After making the purchase, Mani approached the Chengalpet deputy tahsildar through a couple of agents to obtain a 'patta' for the property and related documents, the DVAC said. 
 
 
 
 Arumugam demanded a bribe of ?20 lakh for the document but, “after negotiations”, agreed to scale it down ?8 lakh. He demanded a ‘fee’ of ?6 lakh in cash, which Mani paid in three installments near a subway close to the Chengalpet taluk office in August 2015, the DVAC said.
 
 But Arumugam did not appear to keep his end of the bargain. Mani did not obtain the deed or the other documents even three months after making the payment.
 
 So he met Arumugam, who demanded ?5 lakh more, the DVAC said. Mani paid this sum in October 2015. Arumugam in November asked Mani to collect the documents from his house.
 
 But when Mani arrived there, Arumugam asked him to purchase new electrical appliances worth ?1.08 lakh for the official’s new homes and to repair his car, which, the official said, he had damaged “while conducting a raid on the sand mafia”. Mani paid ?45,000 to repair the car.
 
 But Arumugam had not ensured that Manu obtained the documents even by May 2016.
 
 The deputy tahsildar said he was very busy and could not find the time to process them, the DVAC said. Arumugam and his wife Meenatchi on May 7, 2016, had handed over a promissory note, on a ?100 stamp paper, saying they would return ?12.5 lakh to Mani. The two then issued three post-dated cheques, but they bounced, the DVAC said.
 
 By April 2017, however, Mani handed over a written statement to DVAC officers, stating that Arumugam had repaid him a sum of ?12.5 lakh in cash.
 
 DVAC additional SP S Elango registered a case against Arumugam based on evidence that included the official’s promissory note and Mani’s statement.
 
 Arumugam is currently deputy tahsildar (elections) in Kancheepuram.
 
 
 
