JAIPUR: A day after two sub-adult tigers were found dead under mysterious circumstances at  , the forest authorities continue to grope in the dark about the exact cause of deaths.

 While the post-mortem reports (PMRs) are still awaited, the sources in forest department have prima facie ruled out the “territorial fight” as cause of deaths. “During the medical examination, an injury was found at the stomach area of one  , whereas injury marks were discovered on the left paw of second one, which indicates that were no injuries, fatal enough to have caused deaths during a territorial fight,” said a source at forest department. 
 
 The forest department said that viscera samples will be sent to two separate forensic labs, one in   (WII) Dehradun and another to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad.
 
 A senior forest official said, “The matter is still under investigation. We are waiting for PMRs to ascertain the cause of twin deaths. Samples have been sent to specialised labs for accurate examination,” he added. 
 
 Sources said, the post-mortem was conducted in the presence of board, which comprised a nominee of district collector, nominee of police, a National Tiger Conservation Authority ( ) member, chief conservator of forest Sawai Madhopur and a NGO member. The medical examination has revealed that two tigers had ate the kill, which was found to be a calf. Despite several attempts chief conservator of forest at Sawai Madhopur Y K Sahu was unavailable for comments.
 
 The forest department, had initially suspected territorial fight as the cause of deaths. The officials had claimed a dominant male tiger, T-42 intruded into the territory of two sub-adult tigers due to which a fight broke out between them, in which T-42 reportedly killed the two. However, the forest department have not been able to ascertain whether T-42 was present at the spot on Tuesday.
 
 As per the standard operating procedure (SOP) in dealing with tiger deaths laid down by the central ministry of environment and forests, it has to record the footprint of the animal by using plaster of pairs. The SOP also reads, “Survey the entire area. In case of suspected infighting of animals, look for the trails of other injured animals also. Moreover, at least an area of about 500 meters encircling the scene of crime (SoC) maybe thoroughly searched for evidence.” 
 
 Caresses of two tiger cubs of the age of around one and a half year old were found at a distance of 10 to 15 meters on Tuesday around 7 pm at Anwad Ki Khad of Swai Man Singh sanctuary in RNP. The activists too believed it is hard to believe that one male tiger can kill two sub-adults. Moreover, not many injury marks could be seen on the two bodies. Bina Kak , who was the Environment & Forest Minister in the   government said, “ I am not a tiger expert. However, I am still sure that two sub-adults males cannot be killed by one tiger. There were no major injuries on the bodies of these tigers too.”
 
 A senior wildlife expert on the condition of anonymity said, “It has never been in nature that a big cat is killing some little or weak cat, the other one, also little and weak is watching the killing from the distance of 10 to 15 meters, why it would not have fled to a distance?.” 
 
 
