Dharwad: India has a very sound   and there is a need to protect its aspirations, said Jnanpith awardee   here on Saturday.

 He was delivering a lecture under the series “Nenapina Butti” (basket of memories) organized by the   alumni association as part of the institution’s centenary year celebrations here on Saturday.
 
 He termed it unhealthy sign the incident of cleansing the place in   where actor   attended an event. “A Union minister spoke about changing the Constitution and he was free to do so. However, Rai, who expressed his opposition to the minister’s remarks, was also free to say what he wanted to say. The matter should have ended there,” he said.
 
 Karnad lauded India’s democratic values. “Some countries had ridiculed India as it adopted democracy, saying it was not capable of continuing with democracy. However, over the past seven decades India continues to protect the democratic values. Meanwhile in Pakistan, Sunnis attack Shias. A Pakistani friend of mine told me that if at all Shias feel safe anywhere in the world it is in India,” he said.
 
 Karnad said that he learnt the value of freedom of expression during the early 1950s from the environs of Karnatak College, his alma mater. He joined the college in 1954.
 
 “There were not many colleges in the region and students from Goa and other neighbouring districts used to come to study at Karnatak College. We had students from different languages, regions and cultures and we used to argue on several socio-cultural issues in a healthy manner,” he recalled.
 
 Karnad also recalled the efforts made by his professors from Marathi background to promote Kannada in the region when Dharwad was under the Bombay Presidency. “I was a student at this college when the country was witnessing changes and it was a happening period,” he said.
 
 Karnatak University vice-chancellor Pramod Gai, principals of arts, science and music colleges Professor Rajeshwari M, Channu Mulimani and S S Tarlaghatti felicitated Karnad. Aruna Hallikeri introduced the guest. Alumni, retired teachers, staff and students were present on the occasion.
 
 
