Mumbai: Reminding the police that politicians are not “gods” or “above the law”, the Bombay high court on Thursday cleared the decks for action against two corporators accused of destruction of   in Mira-Bhayander.

 A bench of Justices Satyaranjan Dharmadhikari and Bharati Dangre questioned the police inertia and asked them to act within a week against BJP corporator Parshuram Mhatre and Shiv Sena corporator Anita Patil. The court was hearing a PIL filed by local resident Bharat Mokal in 2015 about the destruction of mangroves in Temkarpada in Mira Bhayander to build shanties. An FIR was lodged in 2014 in the case.
 
 The bench asked the police and the Mira Bhayander Corporation officials to be “bold and act without fear”. 
 
 The judges said politicians were not gods that they would come on their own for cases to be registered against them. “Political leaders are not above law,” said the judges and asked the officers why they were afraid of action against them. The bench asked the officers to bring to its notice if any politician tries to “pressurise them or undermine their powers”.
 
 Advocate D S Mhaispurkar, appearing for Mokal, referred to a 2016 report of the talathi that mentioned Mhatre and Patil’s names as persons responsible for the illegal cutting of mangroves. “If serious allegations are made against them, why are they not booked in the crime?” the advocate asked. The report had said that mangroves had been cut illegally and shanties had been constructed. They were demolished, but mushroomed again. The advocate said the FIR had been registered in the case, but the names of the political leaders were missing.
 
 The police said they had issued showcause notices and sought time to decide under which provision to book the corporators. The court expressed its dissatisfaction and pointed out that the persons could be booked for violating provisions of the Environmental Protection Act.
 
 At an earlier hearing, the court had said that “mangroves have to be protected and safeguarded for they act as a buffer at times of natural calamities”. The court had said that while police could not detect each and every crime, but “if there are certain citizens who, at the cost of their lives, maintain such vigil and follow up the above issues and matters, then, it is but expected that the police machinery takes assistance of such citizens”.
 
 
