NEW DELHI: While the   of   will create a much-needed south-west corridor from next month, it will pose added challenges in terms of managing the on-road chaos near the stations on the corridor.

 Areas like Greater Kailash-II, Hauz Khas and Munirka already face severe congestion due to narrow approach roads. Earlier plans of traffic police to control movement of rickshaws and e-rickshaws along metro stations, such as the one at Kailash Colony, failed due to the lack of parking space for these vehicles, seen as vital for last-mile connectivity.
 
  
  
 
 Residents of GK-II, for example, fear a traffic mess in the times to come. “The GK-II gurdwara road has been facing heavy traffic movement ever since the Sarita Vihar underpass was inaugurated, as it acted as a shortcut through CR Park. Once the metro station opens, there will be e-rickshaws and cycle rickshaws parked outside the station,” VN Nangia, whose house is close to the station, said. Nangia said these vehicles were likely to move on the wrong side for the lack of a U-turn.
 
  
  
 
 Chetan Sharma of GK-II RWAs’ association said he had proposed an alternative site close to a park at Masjid Moth, but it wasn’t considered.
 
  
  
 
 The Greater Kailash station of the Magenta Line is situated on the other side of the outer Ring Road, opposite Savitri Cinema, where the   has made provisions for a long peripheral auto-rickshaw drop-off lane and bus bays. The Savitri Cinema intersection, which already is a traffic chicken neck, could witness further chaos as   has been unable to provide any additional lanes near the entry and exit points due to paucity of land. This spot is likely to see a congregation of e-rickshaws and auto-rickshaws as this would be the closest point to access the station for residents of CR Park, Greater Kailash, Alaknanda, etc.
 
 
  
 
 Residents also point to another mess brewing at the Chirag Dilli station, as the exit has been constructed at a turning of BRT and the outer Ring Road. According to traffic police estimates, almost 15,000 vehicles use the stretch daily. “At a meeting with traffic officers and PWD, we had pointed out that a service lane near the DDA flats, which is now blocked by grilles and being used for parking vehicles, can be used to widen the road. It is almost 10 feet of space. But nothing was done,” Sharma claimed.
 
 Joint commissioner, traffic police, Garima Bhatnagar, said the volume on these stretches could only be gauged once the stations became functional. “There will definitely be some challenges, but we are looking for solutions,” she said.
 
 At Hauz Khas, already an interchange station for metro, cops expect a considerable footfall, especially students heading to schools and JNU. The stretch is already crowded with auto-rickshaws and Grameen Sewa vehicles that are haphazardly parked, blocking a part of the outer Ring Road. And, though stretches near Panchsheel Park and IIT are likely be less congested, residents complain that travelling on colony roads will be difficult due to the spurt in the number of vehicles.
 
 Police expect another mess at the Munirka metro station as one of the exits — towards Munirka village — is located at a market under the flyover. “Two lanes of the three-lane road are already occupied by vehicles of shop owners and visitors. Auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws will only add to the mess,” Utsav Tokas, a resident, said.
 
 “On all upcoming stations of the Magenta Line from Vasant Vihar to Nehru Enclave, adequate arrangements have been made for traffic management at the entry and exit points of the stations as per UTTIPEC guidelines and availability of space,” a DMRC spokesperson said. “Separate auto and car drop-off points have been created at entry points. All stations also have bus stands within 100 metres of the entry and exit points,” he said.
 
 The spokesperson added that at all stations, there would be provisions for parking of vehicles of disabled passengers near the lifts, which would be connected with the help of a ramp. “Adequate signage will be put up at all drop-off points, auto parking stands, handicapped parking spaces for the convenience of the passengers,” he said.
 
 
