Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com
While he may not have won the show, 11-year old Kanpur lad  , who was among the four finalists on the recently concluded dance reality show ' ', has won many hearts. Ritik, who reached Kanpur on Tuesday, after being in Mumbai for eight months, is on cloud nine these days. And he has a reason for feeling so as none other than Bollywood actor   has taken it upon himself to sponsor Ritik’s complete education. Varun, who had appeared on the show as a celebrity judge to promote his film October on the show, was moved by Ritik’s plight. “When the 'Judwaa 2' actor learned that Ritik’s father, Gaurishankar Diwaker, is unable to work as his left hand is non-functional, Varun decided to help the child as he didn’t want his studies to suffer,” informed a source from the sets. 
 Delighted with the news, Ritik’s mother Neha, shared that the actor has assured them that he will help them with whatever they need, be it Ritik's education or pursuing dance. "My husband can't work because of his hand. I run the house as a labour in a factory. I’m grateful to Varun sir for doing this, it will be a big help for us," she was quoted as saying in an article.
 
  
  Ritik Diwakar with Varun Dhawan (BCCL) 
 
 Ritik, meanwhile, who’s back home amid continuing celebrations post his stint on the dance show, is happy beyond belief. "While the news was already out that Varun sir will be funding my education, I got to speak to him on Tuesday only when I came back to Kanpur. I was given his manager's number by the channel people who told me that Varun sir was keen to talk to me. When I spoke to his manager, he told me to take admission in the best school of Kanpur and all the expenses henceforth will be borne by Varun sir. This is so sweet of him," says Ritik, adding, "Even though I was not able to win the show, I am happy that I have earned so much love from people all around. While the channel is building the roof of my house, since we couldn’t afford to do it it ourselves, as my mother stitches bags and my father is jobless, Varun sir is funding my education. My whole life has changed with this gesture of his. I could have never ever dreamt of all this. I toh simply gave the auditions to participate without knowing that all this will also happen to me and my family."
 
  
  Ritik Diwakar with Varun Dhawan (BCCL) 
 
 His neighbours are continuously coming to meet him ever since he has landed in the city. "And that too with boxes of sweets. When I woke up on Wednesday morning, I saw a huge queue of people waiting outside my house to meet me. Mujhe laga ki ab toh main haar gaya hoon toh nobody will bother to meet me. But aisa kuchh nahi hai. For Kanpurites, I am the winner and it feels happy to know this," he says.
 And though he is seeking admission in one of the best schools in Kanpur, Ritik says dancing will remain his career choice. "Chahe main kitne bhi bade school mein padh loon, I want to become a dancer, ultimately. That is my aim for life. I want to learn different dance forms, though I have learned a lot by participating in Super Dancer. Also, I am also looking forward to participating in several dance shows and I am open to more such shows. My love for dancing has just doubled now," shares Ritik. 
  
 
 
