NAGPUR: It’s time for some action at the   ( ) as the race for the post of standing committee chairman hots up.

 The elections are expected to be held on February 20 as mayor Nanda Jichkar has convened a general body meeting. 
 
 Apart from standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav, the term of 15 members is ending next month. Currently, the 16-member standing committee includes 12 members from BJP, three from  , and 1 from BSP.
 
 Candidates in the fray for the chairman’s post are Vicky Kukreja, Pradeep Pohane, Divya Dhurde and Chetna Tank.
 
 BJP insiders swear by Kukreja’s candidature for his close allegiance with chief minister  . Party sources said that Pohane, who is a close aide of east  , has been elected for the second consecutive term. But this time he was not inducted in any committee and there are chances that he may get the coveted post of standing committee chairman.
 
 Similarly, senior women corporators Tank and Dhurde may also get a chance to head the committee.
 
 Along with standing committee, the one-year term of seven members of health special committee, nine members of establishment and projects and tax collection committee, education committee, water supply committee, fire services and electricity committee, women and child welfare committee, slum development and housing committee, sports committee, and legal committee will also come to an end. 
 
 The tenure of the transport committee is of two years as it has constitutional rights. So, Bunty Kukde, who is the chairman of the committee and 12 members, will remain for one more year. Mahendra Dhanvijay, who is the chairman of the weaker section committee and his 10 members, function as per standing committee’s budget. So, its members will retire in May or June.
 
 “All corporators should get an opportunity and barring exceptions, chairpersons and members of all other committees will be replaced,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 Already fearing revolt by some of the elected representatives, city BJP President Sudhakar Kohale took resignations of all its 112 corporators.
 
 If one takes a look at history, there were occasions when some corporators — ex-Shiv Sena corporator Bandu Talvekar, BSP’s Kishor Gajbhiye, and Congress corporator Purshottam Hazare — had refused to resign by defying the party orders.
 
 
