HYDERABAD: The   budget announcement to introduce an integrated BEd programme for teachers to improve quality of education will benefit thousands of teachers in  , experts said. 

 Figures available with the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS), Hyderabad shows there are 15,380 untrained in-service teachers across Telangana. "All the untrained teachers are from private unaided schools. Therefore, the Centre's decision to train teachers through an integrated B   programme will definitely benefit them in enhancing their skillset," said  , regional director, NIOS, Hyderabad. 
 
 The NIOS, which is the authorised body for the programme, is training teachers at 230 training centres across the state. "The union government's goal is to train teachers through diploma in elementary education before March 31, 2019. Through the Swayam portal, teachers will learn in four quarters using textual material, audio visual lessons, self-assessment and discussion  ," said Kumar. Teachers of private unaided schools have also welcomed the government move, saying that the integrated programme will enhance their annual salaries too. "The untrained teachers recruited in private unaided schools are not paid enough. The integrated programme will not only make teachers qualified, but will also enhance the basic salaries that are offered to them by private school managements," said Shabbir Sheikh, president of Telangana Private Teachers Forum. 
 
 It may be noted that the government has earmarked a budget of Rs 13 lakh crore for teacher training. Apart from teacher training programme, the scheme to revitalize school infrastructure also comes as a boon as there are several schools in districts which do not have sheds, compound walls among other facilities. 
 
 While the government has decided to have district wise strategy to improve the quality of education and achieve learning outcomes based on the National Achievement Survey, teachers have expressed their concerns over nominal hike in funds allocated for education.
 
 
