CHANDIGARH: Gangsters have become brazen in the  , striking at will three times in a month and openly challenging the police writ.

 A Tricity police co-ordination meeting held among police chiefs of the Tricity had recently decided to keep a strict vigil on the borders of Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula, but the move seems not to be working.
 
 
  
 
 In Mohali, famous Punjabi singer-cum-actor   escaped a bid on his life when he along with his friend came under attack by dreaded   Dilpreet Singh Dahan on April 14. Parmish was admitted to a hospital for three days with bullet injuries on his leg. Later, he posted on his Facebook account that the attack on him was for extortion. Dilpreet is still at large.
 
 In Barwala, Bhupesh Rana, a Monu Rana gang member, was killed in broad daylight by Bhupi Rana gang on April 16. The gang members followed Bhupesh and gunned him down just a few metres away from the police station in the busy market of Barwala in Panchkula. Bhupi Rana is still at large.
 
 A few days later on April 23, an anonymous caller claiming himself to be gangster Dilpreet Singh Dahan threatened to attack the Punjab and Haryana high court and kill three to four people.
 
 On May 17, Vivek Rana, a gang member of Rahul Khatta gang of Saharanpur near Meerut was shot dead with his hands tied at the back. His body with seven bullet wounds was dumped in a jungle area on Samgoli road near Derabassi. Police suspect gang rivalry was behind the killing. Members of Monu Rana gang have named in the FIR as prime suspects, police said.
 
 Panchkula DCP R K Meena said the crime branch was working on border vigil to check the movement of gangsters working in proximity with their counterparts. At present, Bhupi Rana in the most wanted criminal in Panchkula after Sampat Nehra, another gangster, he said.
 
 Mohali SSP SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said border vigil was the key factor. “We are also checking PG accommodations to ascertain the existence of gang members in the city,” he said.
 
 Chandigarh SSP Nilambari Jagdale said, “A court vigil move has been introduced in which we get data of undertrials who jump court appearances. We make list of such undertrials declared proclaimed offenders, trace them and fine their guarantors. This exercises has brought down the movement of criminals to some extent.”
 
 
 
