GURUGRAM: An attempt to encroach upon land near the near Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary was reported on Sunday morning, despite an FIR against the illegal construction that was lodged last week. TOI has in fact found the attempt to erect poles to fence a one acre plot, just 500m from the boundary of the sanctuary, and within its proposed 1km-wide protected area, has continued over the past 2-3 weeks. A fresh attempt at fencing was carried out by four people on Sunday morning.

 The   violates the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), as it falls under Section 4 and 5 of PLPA, which marks it as ‘gair mumkin pahar’, ie, hilly land unfit for cultivation on which non-forest activity is restricted. Moreover, a 2015 order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in the case Haryali Welfare Society vs Union of India & Others, clearly stated that fragmentation, fencing or construction on ‘gair mumkin pahar’ in Mangar village is not permitted.
 
  
  
 
 Locals alleged such encroachment attempts in the area are rampant, as it lies on the border of neighbouring states Delhi and Haryana, which is why police and forest departments of both keep passing the buck. “Because the area falls on the border of Delhi and Haryana, police and forest departments of both keep passing the buck, saying it doesn’t fall under their jurisdiction, despite numerous reports of violations that have been reported,” said a resident.
 
 Gurugram police said a case has already been registered. “We registered a case when the last encroachment attempt came to light. Today (Sunday), we informed the forest department and also demolished the poles. The forest department, though, is yet to file a written complaint,” said Prahlad Singh, in-charge of Mangar police post.
 
 Environmentalists alleged the violators go scot-free as encroachments are not reported by the forest departments of either state. 
 
 “Forest guards remove encroachments and forget about it. In only few cases, do they put it on record. Strict action should be taken against such officials, otherwise destruction of Aravalis can’t be stopped,” said Vivek Kamboj of NGO Haryali.
 
 Sources said the district forest department carried out an inspection on Sunday, and confirmed the violation. Faridabad district forest officer R K Chugh said, “We inspected the area and removed the encroachment with police help. We’ll file a police complaint on Monday.”
 
 One of the major reasons for regular violations in this area is Haryana government’s non-committal attitude over declaration of an eco-sensitive zone around the sanctuary, as demanded by environmentalists. While Delhi has declared a 1km buffer zone on its side, Haryana is yet to submit a complete proposal to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, based on the 2011 Supreme Court directive, asking states to declare buffer zones around forests. A proposal Haryana had submitted in 2017 was found incomplete by the Union ministry. 
 
 Talking about the importance of a buffer zone around Asola Bhatti, Faridabad-based environmentalist Jitender Bhadana said, “An eco-sensitive zone will prevent encroachments in crucial areas, including Mangar Bani and Bandhwari, and provide a wildlife corridor between   and Sariska Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan.”
 
 
