In the latest episode of  , Suhana worries that Shubham (Aryan) hasn't called her yet. Later, he calls her and tells her that his family doesn't approve of their match. He threatens to run away from home. Suhana gets scared and tells him not to do so. 

 After talking to Shubham, Suhana laughs and tells Rahul that all the guys should be like Shubham. Naira tells Kartik that she feels comfortable when she is around him.
 
 At the Singhania household, Naksh makes preparations for the Gangaur festival. Devyani informs them that Kirti won't be keeping the fast because of her pregnancy and they all joke about it.
 
 Naira goes and meets the doctor, who praises her for handling the matter in a mature way. She consoles her and tells her she shouldn't worry as the problem is very common. She asks Naira to talk to Kartik about it. Hearing the doctor, Naira feels a little positive and smiles.
 
 Shubham is in his room upset about Suhana. Suwarna enters and gets him food but he refuses to eat. He gets angry and tells her that nobody cares about his life. They hear Akhilesh talking about the pool which is now ready for use. Shubham runs away from his room to the terrace. Suwarna calls for help.
 
 Naira gets a call from Suhana asking her to help them. She tells her about Shubham threatning to jump and shares her concerns with her. Naira and Kartik are shocked to find Shubham standing on the railing, threatning to kill himself. Dadi asks him to come down but he doesn't listen. Kartik and Manish run upstairs to help him but find the door locked. Kartik sees the pipelines leading to the terrace and gets there in time. 
 
 Shubham tells everyone that he will kill himself if he doesn't get married to Suhana. They all get anxious and plead him to come down so that they could sit and talk. Shubham tries to step back but he loses balance. Kartik, however, saves him from falling.
 
 Naksh tells Kirti to help him in the preparations of the Gangaur festival. She worries if the elders will ask her to keep a fast in this condition. She cries. Manish and Akhilesh help Kartik and Shubham come down. As soon as Shubham is out of danger, Kartik slaps him. This leaves everyone shocked.
 
 
