MUMBAI/PUNE: A day after a crippling bandh called by Dalit outfits, an all-India student summit to be addressed by Gujarat Dalit politician   and student activist   had to be called off in Juhu on Thursday amid a ruckus as the police detained the organisers, students and guests, including MLC Kapil Patil.

 Mevani, a mint-new MLA, and JNU student leader Khalid were also booked on Thursday by the Vishrambaug police in Pune for making inflammatory and provocative statements during the Elgar Parishad at Shaniwarwada on December 31, a day before violence broke out at Koregaon Bhima. The action came on a police complaint lodged on Wednesday by a 22-year-old student.
 
 Clashes on January 1 over commemoration of the 200-year-old battle at Koregaon Bhima, revered by Dalits since a British regiment including Mahars succeeded in turning back a force of the upper caste Peshwas, triggered violent protests in the city and across the state. 
 
 Khalid, who had been charged with sedition along with   in 2016, was to speak at noon in the 35th edition of the annual all-India summit organised by Chhatra Bharati Vidyarthi at Bhaidas Hall in Vile Parle (W) on Thursday, and Mevani at the concluding ceremony. Patil was scheduled to felicitate Mevani. But the duo didn’t turn up and the event ended in chaos with cops detaining 112 people. They were released in the evening.
 
 The organisers had sent a letter to the Juhu police on December 29 mentioning that the duo would be participating in the event, but the police sent a notice refusing permission on Wednesday, citing the statewide bandh. Around 10am on Thursday, a police force arrived with barricades at the hall and asked everybody to leave. Those who refused were packed into police vans and taken to Juhu, Santa Cruz and Vile Parle police stations.
 
 In Pune, police justified the late action citing bandobust duty over the past four days to avert untoward incidents over the Koregaon Bhima incident. 
 
 “We registered the offence on Wednesday night against the two (Mevani and Khalid) for making inflammatory statements in the public meeting… Their statements caused tension and trouble between two communities and it is suspected that it led to the trouble in Koregaon Bhima,” said additional commissioner of police (south region) Ravindra Sengaonkar.
 
 The police and civic body had given permissions for the ‘Elgar Parishad’ at Shaniwarwada. Sengaonkar did not comment on whether the parishad’s organisers breached the terms and conditions imposed in the police permission letter.
 
 The Juhu police’s notice said that certain sections of society had objections with Mevani’s speech, and added that the organisers would be held liable if a law and order problem developed due to speeches at the event. The organisers were detained as they tried to go ahead with the event despite not having police permission, an official said.
 
 “We had assured the police that there would be no speech that would incite any law and order problem. We had also spoken to Mevani about the matter,” said Sachin Bansode of Chhatra Bharti.
 
 “These were students who came from all over Maharashtra and they wanted to place their problems; many of their schools were closed down,” said Chhatra Bharati vice-president Sagar Bhalerao. “This government has muzzled our voices and that of the youth. We will now take this summit and conduct it on the social media platform on January 10.”
 
 MLC Patil said several student union leaders from across India were detained. Richa Singh, former president of the Students Union of Allahabad University, and JNU student union member Pradeep Narwal claimed their phones were snatched by the police. Chhatra Bharti president Datta Dhage alleged that he faced many blows from them.
 
 “We will not cower before pressure from this government. In the next two months, we will get farmers, workers, pensioners, teachers and the youth together and organize massive protests in Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Pune and Mumbai,” said Patil. “There is unrest in so many sections of the society.”
 
 The Pune police have invoked IPC sections 153 (a), which refers to delivering a speech to create disharmony or feelings of enmity, 505 (public mischief) and 117 (abetting commission of offence by the public or by more than ten persons).
 
 According to the FIR, Khalid is supposed to have said, “Koregaon Bhima ki is ladhai ko aanewala kal bana sakte hai. Unhone hamla kiya, palatwar ki bari hai, ladhai ko ladhenge aur ye ladhai jitna hi Koregaon Bhima ke shahidon ko shrandhanjali hogi.” (It will be a real tribute to the martyrs of Koregaon Bhima battle if we win the ongoing struggle. They have started the war and we will retaliate.)
 
 The FIR also has what Mevani said in the meeting, “Nav Peshwai ke samne agar hume jitna hai, Koregaon Bhima ke is ladhai ko aage leke jana hai us sangharsha ko aage le jana hai… lekin jati nirmoolan to sadkon ki ladhai se hoga. Ek varg ka dusre varg pe jo shahshan hai, woh sadkon ki ladhai se khatm hoga.” (The war to end the caste system will be fought on the streets. The exploitation will end when we will fight battles on the streets. This will end Nav Peshwai (Neo Peshwai).”
 
 
