AMRITSAR:   mastermind Hafiz Saeed’s relative Abdul Rehman Makki has reportedly used objectionable language against the founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev during a rally held at Multan in Pakistan.

 In an audio clip of the speech that went viral on Thursday, Jamaat-ud-Dawa founder Saeed’s right hand man Makki can be heard saying Guru Nanak was a part of the conspiracy hatched centuries ago to malign Islam.
 
 Probably for the first time, any Pakistan-based hardline Islamist leader has publicly spoken against the Sikh religion and Guru Nanak who is equally revered by Hindus and Muslims. A vast majority of Hindus living in Pakistan take pride in calling themselves Nanak panthis (followers of Nanak).
 
 A Pakistani Sikh, who didn’t want to give his name fearing retaliation by Islamist militants, told TOI on Thursday, “We are surprised as to why someone will spew venom against Sikhs and Sikh gurus. This is certainly not a good sign.”
 
 He said the Sikhs were tightlipped about the incident. Even the Sikh leadership of the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) refrained from commenting on Makki’s speech.
 
 PSGPC general secretary Gopal Singh Chawla, who boasts of having close relations with Saeed and had posted his photographs on his Facebook page, has not posted any reaction to Makki’s speech.
 
 Similarly, one of the Sikh militants Gajinder Singh, who targets India on his Facebook page, has not posted any comment over Makki’s anti-Sikh speech.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjit Singh G K condemned Makki’s speech and advised Makki to apprise himself about the religion and principles of Sikhism.
 
 He said Guru Nanak’s mission was not against Islam or Hinduism but his mission was against the forces that were causing damage to the social fabric on pretext of religion. The DSGMC president also invited Makki to attend the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak being celebrated at Gurdwara Nankana Sahib in Pakistan in 2019.
 
 
