GURUGRAM: A 19-year-old woman, who is from a village in Aligarh district in UP, was allegedly gang-raped by the driver of a ‘shared’ auto-rickshaw and four others on Tuesday night near the stone-crushing zone in Raisina on   road. 

 The main accused was arrested by evening on Thursday, police said.
 
 The   has been identified as Aakash (22), a resident of Dhunela village near Sohna. Police seized his auto and questioned him on Thursday, and will produce him in a city court on Friday. They are also conducting raids to nab the other accused, who are yet to be identified, as Aakash has claimed he doesn’t know them. 
 
 According to the complaint filed by the woman, who works as a labourer at a brick kiln in Ghasera village in Nuh district, she was waiting at Sohna bus stand for a bus to Aligarh, around 8pm on Tuesday when the auto driver offered to drop her to  . When she took up his offer, he drove her to a secluded spot where the four others stood waiting. They took turns to rape her.
 
 “I was waiting outside Sohna bus stand, when the auto stopped next to me and the driver asked where was I going. When I told him I was waiting for a bus to Aligarh, he said the bus had left, but I could still catch a train from Gurugram station. Unsuspectingly, I sat in his auto. But he turned it towards the crusher zone. When I objected, he said it was a shared auto and he had to pick up a passenger from there. He then stopped at a secluded spot and pulled me into the bushes, where four other men awaited, who all pounced on me. When I resisted, they threatened to kill me,” she wrote in her complaint.
 
 She also said they forced her to do something, which left her unconscious. When she regained consciousness, she alerted her brother. He later took her to Bhondsi police station where she lodged the complaint.
 
 The police took her for a medical examination to Civil hospital, where doctors confirmed rape. She was produced in a city court on Thursday to have her statement recorded under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code. 
 
 An FIR was subsequently registered against Aakash and the four others under sections 376D (gang rape), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. The only lead the survivor could give police was that the accused kept addressing one of the men as Aakash, and the auto’s registration number. It was enough to arrest the auto driver. 
 
 “We’ve arrested the main accused, who claims the other four were not known to him. He confessed he took the victim into the bushes where the others appeared out of nowhere. We’re still questioning him and have seized his auto. Our teams are conducting raids to nab the rest,” said Ashok Bakshi, DCP (south).
 
 
