HYDERABAD: The value of   has fallen drastically over the last few days. From ₹13.36 lakh in December 2017, it dropped to ₹6.9 lakh on Wednesday evening. The fall is so big that it has become a matter of concern for investors.

 This fall was predicted by India’s first crypto-token marketplace BTCX-India promoter   of Hyderabad, and the report was published in   on December 15, 2017.
 
 Siva   told TOI that Bitcoin will fall further. In fact, even other cryptocurrencies such as Ripple and Ether also fell on Wednesday. According to sources, South Korea’s proposed ban and China’s ban leading to a bearish trend in the Chicago Mercantile exchange have led to the scenario. After saying no to   futures,   announced that it would crack down on any criminal activities involving illegal currencies.
 
 
  Rao said, “The value of Bitcoin has been halved. The crypto market lost 130 billion dollars in 24 hours due to the fall. We do not have specific figures about the loss experienced by investors in Hyderabad and India. After China and South Korea, other countries like Indonesia, too, are moving to regulate cryptocurrency.”
 
 According to Rao, there is a pattern and cycle in the value of the Bitcoin. “Every March, in the middle of the month is the best buying time, and the end of December is the best time to sell. However, this time, the fall has been drastic. The crypto market may stabilise after further fall. Ripple is selling at ₹70 from ₹200. Ether is selling at ₹66,000 now.”
 
 BCTX traded Bitcoins between 2014 and February 2017 and had 8,000 customers. But then it stopped trading it. Experts said earlier too Bitcoin fell and recovered. However, the latest downtrend has come as a bolt for investors. Even   has reported losses.
 
 In December 2017, Reserve Bank of India had warned of cryptocurrency., and cautioned holders and traders of cryptocurrencies regarding potential economic, operational, legal, customer protection and other security risks associated with them. RBI also clarified that no licences or authorisations were given to any entity or company with respect to trading of Bitcoin or any other digital currency.
 
 
