 is big on the priority list of most single people. But it also is very tricky business, especially for an adolescent or young adult, not only because you subconsciously end up measuring your worth based on how successful you are or not, but also because it requires a lot of effort. So when dating apps on smartphones entered the scene, they made the process of meeting and dating so convenient that a recent study carried upon 5,000 young adults aged 18 to 30 years revealed how much time millennials spend in hot pursuit of love or lust — 10 or more hours a week! Does this hold good in namma Bengaluru too?
Shailesh G, a student of  , says, “Very few I know have never been on dating apps, as these apps are very popular and common among college students in the city. That’s mainly because the apps rely on proximity, and what better place to use them than in colleges, where hundreds of people of the same age are in the same campus. Most of us have made use of it at some point in our lives, some very frequently and others sporadic. A few friends of mine go on new dates as often as thrice a week, so, to do that, they spend hours and hours swiping and chatting with the opposite sex on these apps.”
 But that’s not all. The study concluded that men spend 85 minutes per day on dating apps, with an average of 9.7 minutes per session while women spend 79 minutes a day on dating apps, typically browsing for 7.6 minutes on an average on each session. While the amount of time spent by both genders is nearly the same, women aren’t as forthcoming as men about using them. Sairindhri Sengupta, a student of  , explains, saying, “In colleges, the same number of boys and girls are on such apps; it’s true among my friends circle too. But the only difference is that while boys are very vocal about being active on dating apps, girls keep it hush-hush because of the negative perception that comes with being single, available and vocal about it. But it’s nothing to be ashamed of.”
 When a popular dating app surveyed its 370 million users worldwide, the study stated that women were found to log on to dating apps a staggering 10 times a day, with men falling slightly behind at nine times each day. It was also found that more than 16% of millennials set their age bands higher to find an older date. Does this show how keen youngsters are to meet new dates, or is there more to it? “The perception of dating apps has changed a lot. Through the app, I have met so many people with common interests who I’m friends with now. In fact, I even had my CV on it at one point that helped me network. I even have friends who use it only to make friends and not go on dates at all. Dating apps these days are seen as an extension of other social media apps like Facebook and   and not used exclusively for dating,” says Sairindhri. Another student from Christ College, Namrata Muralidharan, adds, “A lot of time is spent on dating apps just swiping and reading the bios that people put up, and not necessarily accepting or declining requests. Some of them are interesting, most very silly and funny. It’s almost like people watching, but on our phones. That could also explain why   spend so much time on dating apps.”
 
