JAIPUR: As there is a shortage of river   after a ban imposed by  , the Jaipur Development Authority ( ) and developers have started looking for manufactured sand (M-sand) as an alternate to be used for construction in new projects. 

 For the upcoming projects, the JDA in the terms and conditions of the tender documents, has incorporated to use M-sand.
 
 A senior JDA engineer said, “For   elevated road, we have asked the contractors to use M-sand as an alternative. The manufactured sand is not only a viable alternative to natural sand, but is superior in many ways.” 
 
 Many realtors have started shifting towards the use of M-sand in the city. “There is lack of awareness among people and small-scale real estate dealers about the use of M-sand. Many are apprehensive that it could provide similar strength,” said  , a developer. 
 
 Though, developers and civic bodies are willing to accept the change, the question remains on the availability of manufacturing units in Jaipur. A JDA engineer on the condition of anonymity said, “Approximately 1,200 cubic metres of sand is required every day for infrastructure projects. The overall requirement is much more higher. There are no sufficient manufacturing units. Quarry owners, who could easily start manufacturing M-sand, are reluctant about setting up the infrastructure fearing loss as demand will drop once ban on sand mining is lifted,” he said.
 
 Many also urged that to gain confidence of residents and developers the state government should set up a monitoring body that will look at the quality of M-sand manufactured and supplied in the state.
 
 Ankur Sharma, a contractor said, “There is a National Building Code that prescribes the quality of M-sand. If the state government sets up a monitoring body, we will be able to promote M-sand in the city. Now if we ask our clients to construct house using M-Sand, they are apprehensive about the quality.” 
 
 Infrastructure and private housing projects in the state worth approximately Rs 10,000 crore are moving a snail’s pace after Supreme Court did not provide relief to the state government. However, as there is no relief in sight, the developers are looking for alternatives to keep the momentum going. 
 
 
