NEW DELHI: The Haryana government has decided to use various government records, including satellite imagery from around October 1980, to ascertain “forest” and “non-forest” areas in lands already notified as forests under the   Land Preservation Act 1900. 

 The decision, which green activists said could open up the fragile   for more development projects, was taken at a recent Haryana government meeting and a committee constituted for the purpose. Officials who attended the meeting told TOI that the identification exercise was backed by an SC judgment.
 
 The current forest cover in Haryana is only 3.6% as against the national target of 33%. The committee for identifying the status of forest land comprises the Haryana chief secretary, secretary (forests), regional Union environment ministry officials, and town and country planning officials, among others. 
 
 It first sought the opinion of the advocate general on whether it will be lawful to proceed with such an identification process in areas already under the protection of PLPA. The advocate general gave the committee a go-ahead and stated that it’s in “full compliance of directions issued by the   in letter and spirit”. 
 
 The reason for choosing October 25, 1980 for determination of forest status is that the forest conservation act 1980 came into force on that date, the minutes of the meeting state. Currently, all areas falling under sections 4 and 5 of PLPA are deemed "forests". Green activists, however, fear that the exercise would open up forests currently protected by law and may spell doom for the Aravalis in Haryana. 
 
  
  
 
 Government officials said the exercise was in accordance with an SC judgment in the B S Sandhu matter, where the court observed that mere inclusion of Koraran village in Ropar district of Punjab in the PLP Act didn’t make it a “forest land”. In the Sandhu case, an   who had built a golf course in the village had moved court when the government withdrew its licence to the club. 
 
 SC had observed that the local government was empowered by a special order to regulate, restrict or prohibit activities like cultivation, pasture and other non-forest activities. Haryana is now using the same argument to begin the demarcation exercise, but experts say the Sandhu judgment was specifically for the Shivaliks and not for the Aravalis in Haryana. 
 
 Also, activists point that even if such an identification process is conducted, a site inspection should be conducted first to determine the status of forest cover. “The   judgment of the SC is clear that in case of a dispute, a site inspection has to be done. The environment ministry guidelines too state that current and past FSI images have to be used to determine the forest status,” said Chetan Agarwal, a forest and environment analyst. 
 
 Another issue raised by activists is the move to demarcate non-forest areas may be in violation of the SC judgment in the T N Godavarman case which said the term “forest” is to be understood in dictionary sense and also that any area regarded as a forest in government records, irrespective of ownership, would be a forest. 
 
 A forest official, who attended the meeting, said, “Haryana has the right to assess the state of land in its jurisdiction. Activists may go to court against the move. The issue of whether the move is in violation of the T N Godavarman, M CMehta and Lafarge judgment will come up only then.” However, environmental lawyer   argued the state’s move could amount to contempt of court. 
 
 “The Sandhu case doesn't relate to Haryana, it relates only to Punjab. Plus, the judgment doesn’t say forests should be identified based on government records. In both the Godavarman and Lafarge cases, larger SC benches have said that forests should be understood based on its dictionary meaning. It cannot be restricted to recorded forest area. Overruling this would be contempt of the SC orders.”
 
