PUNE: The body of a 19-yearold woman, who had witnessed the burning of her family’s house-cum-hotel by a rioting mob during the January 1   caste clashes, was found floating in a well near a rehabilitation site for the violence victims around 11am on Sunday.

  Sakat, a Std XI student, had approached different government offices over the last three months to get a new home for her family. The family had also lodged an FIR with the police in February that some local villagers were issuing threats and harassing them as Pooja was witness to the violence.
 
 Pooja’s brother,  , told 
 , “We informed the Shikrapur police after Pooja went missing on Saturday afternoon. The well where her body was found is about 2km from Koregaon Bhima. We suspect that she may have been compelled by local villagers to end her life or she may have been pushed into the well.”
 
 A strong police bandobast was deployed at the Sassoon general hospital here after a large number of people from various parts of Pune rural and the city gathered. Forensic department authorities at the hospital were conducting a postmortem till late on Sunday night.
 
 A senior Pune rural police officer said, “We will investigate the matter from all possible angles. We will verify the allegations levelled by Pooja’s family members. But we will first try to establish what actually caused her death.”The officer told 
  that the Shikrapur police authorities have been alerted about the possibility of any law-and-order situation in Koregaon Bhima and adjoining villages. Till late evening, no untoward incident was reported from these villages located along the Pune-Ahmednagar highway.
 
 Violence had broken out in Koregaon Bhima, Sanaswadi, Perne Phata and other villages along the highway on January 1.
 
 
 
 
 The violence broke out when a large number of dalits had gathered at the Koregaon Bhima victory tower (obelisk) to commemorate the 200th year of the British-Peshwa battle at this place on January 1, 1818.Intheviolence, Sanaswadi resident Rahul Fatangale was killed in stonepelting while about 100 vehicles were torched and about 60 homes and commercial establishments were set ablaze.
 
 Jaideep said, “My sister left home around 1.30pm on Saturday to visit someone in the village. However, when she did not return till late evening, we searched for her in different parts of the village and contacted her friends. We were shocked to later hear from villagers that her body was found in the well.”
 
 Jaideep said his family had migrated to Koregaon Bhima from Karjat in Ahmednagar about 16 years ago. “My father, Suresh, and mother, Sangeeta, were running the hotel. After local villagers set ablaze our house-cum-hotel, the government authorities shifted us to the rehabilitation area near the village,” he said.
 
 Jaideep said Pooja had seen the villagers torching their home. “She was a witness in the case. At present, I cannot say whether her death is a case of suicide, accident or murder. We have not found any suicide note. However, I suspect that three villagers, who have been terrorising us for the past three months, might have killed my sister. We had lodged a police complaint against these three in February this year,” he said.
 
 Jaideep said his family has been searching for a new place to live in and Pooja had done the rounds of government offices to get funds for the house.
 
 
 
