In the latest episode of  ,   tries to get a reaction from Zoya, but she does not respond to his antics. On the other side, the employees of the event management company enjoy a pizza. Aditya does not let   eat and then throws the pizza on her dress, still she does not react. She then goes to wash her dress and the employees think why Aditya is troubling her. 

 In another scene, Arjun sits in the cafe and takes out Pooja's diary to read. He starts imagining   sitting right in front of him and talking about Yash. She confesses that with   she found love that she could not find in Aditya. She further says that Aditya was her best friend and she always took care of him, but Yash was the one who would take care of her. She even wishes that one day Aditya should also find love like she has. 
 
 Pooja had further written in the diary that she had no clue how to take their relationship further, but is sure that she loves Yash. Meanwhile, Arjun gets a call and walks out of the cafe and drops a job pamphlet of Radio City. Later, Noor walks into the cafe along with her best friend and lies to her by saying she has found a job. As she sits, she finds the pamphlet and gets to know about the job posting.
 
 In another scene, Aditya waits outside the washroom and thinks that he won't let Zoya feel sad and convince her to be normal. He calls someone and arranges for a gift for Zoya. On the other hand, the police gets a voice message from Yash's retrieved phone. The voice message is from Zoya's father Siddhique who asked Yash to meet him on the fateful day.
 
 Aditya awaits the gift and on the other side, Mahi tells Zoya to leave the place with her. Hence, the latter doesn't see what is in the box.. When Mahi returns, she sees Zoya trying to open the box and opens it for her and a jumping toy inside hits Mahi. Zoya scolds Aditya for hurting Mahi and even warns him against doing that again. 
 
 Meanwhile, Zoya finds the car tyre punctured. Both Zoya and Mahi walk through a secluded road. Within no time, few goons surround them and Mahi thinks that they are her men. She tells them to take Zoya and leave her. But the goons take Mahi and Zoya tries to help Mahi, but is pushed away. Zoya falls into Aditya's arms.
 
 
