JAIPUR: Despite the Supreme Court's stay, anxious distributors of the state, worried following the threats by the Rajput outfits, are shying away from buying the distribution rights for  's  . 

 The distributors could have got the rights at a price of Rs 5 to Rs 6 and it is unusual for distributors to refuse to buy the rights; particularly for a big-banner film. To get the film released here, the only option with the producers is to nominate a film distributor and pay him a commission to ensure screening. This changed scenario, commercially puts the distributors and cinema hall owners at minimum risk while it raises the risk factor for the producers by several folds. 
 
 Usually the distribution rights for a big budget film Ramleela, Devdas,  's   or   in a territory costs nearly Rs 4 to Rs 6 crore to the distributor and a hit film ensures a double return from Raj, which is fifth largest film territory in terms of film business. 
 
 According to the trade sources, producers were demanding a sum of Rs 5 crore for the distribution rights of the film in Rajasthan and a few distributors were keen to pay it seeing the grandeur and scale of the film. However, following protest by Rajput groups, distributors have preferred to maintain a distance from the film. 
 
 "Who will pay to get the distribution rights for the film which is surrounded by apprehensions and fears? Be it audience or cinema hall owners - everyone is intimidated. It is not viable to pay a price of say Rs 5 crore at this stage, as Rajasthan is the epicentre of the entire controversy. We also honour the sentiments of Rajput community thus have opted out of this film," said a distributor involved in the film distribution of big-budget films. 
 
 A commercially viable film ensures double to triple return. "Had there been no controversy relating to Padmaavat, it would have earned at least Rs 12 crore from Rajasthan, which is fifth largest film territory in terms of film business in India," said a film trade analyst. 
 
 Film traders, since October 2017, were expecting that producers will reach at some amicable solution with Shree Rajput Karni Sena and other outfits. However, as that has not happened, they have dropped the idea of buying the rights. 
 
 
