As the eleventh edition of the ZEE   opened its gates for the lovers of art and literature on January 25th with invigorating music by performers from Gujrat, Assam and Rajasthan, the crowd swelled up at the royal Diggi Palace. To kickstart and set the pace for the five-day festival,   delivered his keynote address ‘'A World Without Borders' stating that Mumbai is the capital of 21st century writing and the rejoice among the audience was unmatchable.

 
 The keynote session by Pico Iyer had thousands of people standing at the  . The award winning writer stated, “In the 19th century, the centre of literature was London; in the 20th century it was New York; and there is no doubt that the global capital of 21st-century writing is Mumbai. The single most important state of all is the one we have the most control over: the state of our imagination. We can’t erase nationalists and terrorists, but our words, ideas and rigorous imaginings can take us past simplicity, and remind us that ultimately, we change the world by changing how we think. Literature is more essential than ever, because imagination is no respecter of boundaries – we speak over, under and around the wall.”
 
 "Across the western world, publishers are running scared, bookshops are closing, magazines are dwindling. But everytime that I come here to the world's largest democracy, I find a new publishing house, a new magazine and new readers eager to talk about a certain page number of 'A Suitable Boy', said Iyer.
 
 The British-born American essayist and novelist best known for his travel writing tries to explore through his books a different dimension to existing societies and cultures and that is what makes his books a must read.
 
 Focusing on the evolving literary circuit of the the subcontinent, he said, "A new kind of writer is coming up to speak for a new kind of reader and if London is the capital of 19th century writing in English and New York is the capital of 20th century writing in English, then the capital of 21st century writing, so far, is certainly Mumbai." 
 
 Iyer also said that at a time when people were increasingly bound by their cultural and geographical boundaries, literature allowed authors and readers travel beyond these boundaries and to explore news worlds, and to read about other than one's own identity.
 
 "Literature tells us that drone attacks do not deter terrorists, that guns are never going to erase nationalists. Our words, our ideas, our rigorous imaginings can take us a little bit towards simplicities and remind us that ultimately we change the world by thinking how we change it. The single most important state of all is the state of our imagination," the acclaimed essayist said.
 
