HYDERABAD: An eerie silence descended over the Vemukunta residence of 30-year old   after three generations of her family, precariously strung on a volatile relationship with the killer, were snuffed out in one stroke of violence on Saturday.

 Accused Madhu enacted the dance of death, murdering his lover of decades and even his   with ruthless ease. Old flame Aparna returned to his life after she relocated to Hyderabad and Madhu began a live-in relationship with her and they had a child out of wedlock.
 
 
 On Saturday, Madhu stormed into the residence of Aparna, numbing his heart and senses with liquor. Aparna was away at work. He first killed her mother,  , while his biological daughter witnessed the murder and began screaming with agony.
  
  
 
 This further triggered his killer instinct and he slapped her and then throttle d her with his hands. While the death dance was on at home, Aparna was busy at an electronics shop, where she was employed. When she returned home for lunch, she too met the same fate.
 
 Cyberabad police said, when Aparna came home she found both her daughter and mother lying limp on the cot. Shell-shocked and angry, Aparna picked an argument with Madhu, and she too was killed with a blunt object.
 
 After committing the triple murder, Madhu went to a lodge in  , where he tried to commit suicide by slitting his wrist. For two days till Monday, he hid at the lodge and switched off his mobile phone. When he came to know police were on the lookout for him, Madhu surrendered before cops.
 
 During the course of investigation, Madhu disclosed that Aparna had been harassing him for spending more time with his wife,  , and ignoring her and her daughter and also not giving her the money she had been asking for.
 
 “Both Aparna and Jaya Lakshmi had been accusing him of spoiling his daughter’s life, while continuing with a twin relationship. Occasionally, both Aparna and Jaya Lakshmi would call Yamini and create an uncomfortable situation for her. Yamini would be in a disturbed state of mind,’’ a police officer told TOI.
 
 Sandwiched between his wife and lover’s demands, Madhu decided to eliminate Aparna and her mother, the police added.
 
