CHENNAI: Amid mounting allegations of irregularities in state universities, a controversy has erupted over appointment of registrar of the  , for which Chief Justice of the   is the chancellor. The selection of T Vengadesan by an executive council, which has vice-chancellor Kamala Sankaran, Justice T S Sivagnanam of the Madras high court , advocate general Vijay Narayan and state law secretary S S Poovalingam as its members, has come as a surprise.

 A former railway employee with experience in commercial, marketing and traffic costing, T Vengadesan was assistant registrar at IIT-Madras for about two years before moving to the ministry of mines. In 2011, he joined Delhi University’s finance department.
 
 Section 14(1) of   mandates that an aspirant must be an ‘academician in the field of law’, and should have held position not lower to that of the principal of a government law college or professor of a university for a period of not less than three years. Vengadesan only has an undergraduate law degree. If the applicant is from the government’s side, he or she should be an officer not lower in rank than a deputy secretary, law department. Since Section 2(h) makes it clear “government” means the state government, a finance department official from Delhi University is hardly qualified for the job. But the executive council found him the most suitable among three candidates at the August 2017 interview. He assumed office in October, and an appeal was submitted to Chief Justice Indira Banerjee, chancellor vested with powers to examine any record of any officer, and then to annul or reverse or order reconsideration of any decision under Section 9(4) of the Act.
 
 Asked about the irregular appointment, vice-chancellor Kamala Sankaran told TOI these were important things but she was not going to talk about it. “Our chancellor is chief justice of the state…We are a respectable university established by state government and it is functioning properly…I have no idea what you are talking about.”When the chief justice’s office was contacted for response on the statutory appeal submitted under Section 9(4) of the Act, sources told TOI it was not a statutory appeal but a letter requesting the chief justice to look into the issue and pass appropriate orders. The letter was forwarded to the vice-chancellor who said there was no irregularity in the appointment, sources said.Vengadesan had more service experience than other candidates, and the word ‘government’ in the rule could not be confined to state government alone, sources said. They, however, did not comment on whether a university is ‘government.’ 
 
 
