NEW DELHI: At 35, Shah Jahan is a mother of a college-going daughter and son in Class XI, having married at 15 and become a mother a year later. She doesn’t want such a life for her daughter. “Her education is my priority, after which I want her to pursue her dream of becoming an artist,” says Jahan.

 Jahan’s progressive thoughts perhaps have to do with the fact that she has stepped out, is earning a livelihood and is working at the same time to improve the   for the 12,000   of congested  . For years,   like her were confined to their homes with no role to play in community development or their own growth, and in their conservative homes, education was a luxury bestowed upon women. Their lives changed with the Nizamuddin Urban Renewal Initiative, which began in 2007 through a public-private partnership among the Archaeological Survey of India, Central PWD, South Delhi Municipal Corporation and the Aga Khan Trust for Culture and Aga Khan Foundation.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 A survey carried out a year later revealed that women in the basti did not have a place in public life, their participation in the workplace being a mere 9%. Only 1% of the youth had access to vocational training. The survey also showed that 25% of the homes did not have in-house toilets, and over 50% of the people were unhappy with the health and education services in the basti.
 
 “The renewal project has been conscious about creating job opportunities for women,” informs Jyotsna Lall, director, programme, AKTC. “We ensure maximum participation for women in every fold and continue to be surprised at the success they have each individually achieved.” The road to empowerment wasn’t easy though and the women had to put up with taunts, family resistance and even flat refusal when they wanted to step out of their homes. But they persisted and many of them are today the sole supporters of their families.
 
 Today, close to a thousand basti women are variously employed. Sheenam Khan was going through a difficult time after her mother’s untimely death. She joined the Career Development Centre under the Aga Khan Foundation and completed two courses in data entry and customer service associate training. She now works in NIIT Foundation. “Through their active involvement in project implementation, the basti’s women ensured that 95% of the families benefitted from the initiative,” points out Ratish Nanda, project director.
 
 Projects like Insha-e-Noor and Zaika-e-Nizamuddin have allowed women to hone their skills in sanjhi (paper cutting), crochet, aari (embroidery) and cookery. Zaika-e-Nizamuddin will soon launch its first pop-up restaurant and serve cuisine rarely offered in eateries. The health team has over 500 women providing immunisation to children and pre- and post-natal care for women.
 
 The money these activities bring is for the women to keep, giving them a sense of financial independence. As the youngest sister among seven, Rabiyah’s brothers never wanted her to work. Today, she earns over Rs 10,000 a month as an instructor in Insha-a-Noor and has changed her family’s perceptions about working women. When Shabnam started working at Insha-e-Noor, her family thought it was a passing fad. Today her daughter is trained gym instructor in the basti.
 
 “I spend what I earn on myself,” smiles 60-year-old Sayeeda. “Earlier I was just a housewife cooking, cleaning and looking after the family. Today, neighbours seek my advice on community issues and my family asks for my opinion on domestic matters.” For women like her, life in Nizamuddin basti has certainly taken a more meaningful turn.
 
 
