NEW DELHI: Wholesale and   across the capital were shut on Tuesday to   against the sealing drive. Rain, however, put paid to traders’ plans to hold a march at  , one of the six gathering points for the protesters. 

 The strike call got a mixed response in Hauz Khas and Safdurjung Development Area. But the shutdown was total in Yusuf Sarai, Defence Colony, South Extension, GK-I and -II and Green Park Extension. Markets in Connaught Place, Chandni Chowk, Sadar Bazaar, Chawri Bazar, Kamla Nagar, Karol Bagh, Green Park, Khan   and Kalkaji also wore a deserted look. 
 
 Vijay Kumar Arora, president of South Ex-I Market Association, said their main demand was to halt the drive for three months. “We do not know where to go (for redressal). The monitoring committee is not listening to our grievances. The authorities should sit down with us and find a solution.” Arora demanded that a uniform policy be put in place to avoid harassment of  . 
 
 Rajender Sharda, president of the traders’ body of GK M Block, said the government must bring in an ordinance to stop the sealing drive. Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary of the Confederation of All India Traders, demanded immediate intervention of the government, claiming provisions of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act were being “violated” and that the sealing was being carried out in a “dictatorial manner” .
 
 He said: “The daylong   caused a business loss of nearly Rs 1,500 crore. This means a loss of revenue of Rs 125 crore to the government, apart from hurting about 20 lakh workers.” Khandelwal demanded that FAR, in accordance with the master plan, be implemented immediately and markets that had been declared commercial be given amnesty. “Local shopping centres were allotted at commercial rates and, now, they are asking for a conversion charge. Shops are being sealed without notice,” he claimed. 
 
 Khandelwal alleged that commercial shops had mushroomed under the nose of officials, but the civic bodies hadn’t taken any action then. “The (SDMC) commissioner never declared any area as prohibited for conducting commercial activity, as provided under Section 419 of MCD Act. Therefore, the sealing drive is completely illegal,” he said.
 
 Sanjay Bhargava, general secretary of Chandni Chowk Vyapar Mandal, echoed the sentiments. “The civic bodies were supposed to monitor violations and go by Master Plan 2021, but they did nothing,” he said.
 
 
