KOCHI: When participants of the Ship for World Youth Leaders Programme (SWYP) visited   and took part in a group discussion on child rights and education on Monday, Akari Ushida shocked participants from India, Mozambique, and Mexico, when she said that public schools in Japan were kept clean by students after school hours. Ushida was taken aback by the idea that this system was not followed in other countries.

 Administrator of SWYP   said that the primary aim of the project, an initiative of Japanese government, is to help aspiring youths from across the world ‘exchange opinions and explore other ways of thinking’. Around 300 participants from 11 countries took part in the programme that was inaugurated by Cusat vice-chancellor J Letha.
 
 Participants, who arrived in Kochi on Sunday, were split into seven groups for various discussions on topics such as disaster reduction, child rights, diversity and inclusion, international cooperation, lifestylerelated diseases, self-empowerment and sustainable economic development. Students from Cusat joined this group discussion programme.
 
 Ushida, an international relations student from Japan, was part of the child rights discussion panel during which she spoke about the challenges within the public education system in Japan. “It is very difficult to get into good universities. Those who can afford ‘after-school classes’ get into good universities. Others, who don’t have much of a choice, end up withsome job and thiscreates a cycle,” shesaid.
 
 During discussions, students also explored public policy and its inadequacies. Noemi Eunice Del Castillo, a music educator from Mexico said, “Our government pays parents to send kids to school. But, this money is spent elsewhere.” Meanwhile,   from Mozambique suggested that the biggest problem in the general education sector in her country was the poor teacher-training programme.
 
 Cusat’s engineering student Mohammed Sahil, who took part in the discussion, said: “This was a great opportunity toknowthat peoplefrom other partsconsider illiteracy and poverty as a global issue. It was interesting to know innovative solutions each country adopted.”
 
 On their way out, some the students also witnessed SFI protest against the Cusat registrar. Though a few of them were taken aback by the protest march and flipped out their mobile phones to capture the movement, others were excited.
 
 “I am from South Africa, so I am more than familiar with student protests. It is an opportunity for students to influence society and create a change. Last year, there was the ‘#FeeMustFall’ campaign and by the end of the year the president announced that the government will subsidize higher education. The protest played a key role in that movement,” said   who is undertaking African gender studies at theUniversity of SouthAfrica, Pretoria.
 
 The students will visit heritage sites in Kochi and depart on Wednesdayto Sri Lanka.
 
