In the previous episode of  , Akash and 
  make up and apologize to each other. They hug and kiss. Vikas and Hina talk about Shilpa's recent change in behavior.

 The next morning, contestants wake up to the song 'Chikni Chameli'. Akash hugs Shilpa from the side and wishes her good morning. Shilpa asks   to tell Akash to stay away from her. Akash comes out and confronts her. 
 
 
 He says that Shilpa is a liar and he just hugged her from the side to say good morning. He says that she is making an issue out of this for no reason. He accuses her of sexually harassing him by slapping on his butt. 
 
 Vikas and Puneesh sit and count Luv's votes and the total comes out to be 293. They recall that Luv had told   that he has got 393 votes. All the contestants are shocked to learn that Luv cheated in the task. 
 
 Bigg Boss asks the contestants to put up one contestant's picture on the mean board, who they think is the meanest. Akash's picture is put up on the board. Arshi Khan enters the house as a guest and Bigg Boss announces that she will be the judge for the task. 
 
 Vikas reads out the task in which Bigg Boss will send the contestants their photos. The other housemates have to pitch mean ideas to Arshi regarding the chosen contestant. If Arshi approves of the idea and the housemate succeeds in doing the task, their photo will go up on the mean board, qualifying them for a prize money.
 
  
  
 Shilpa's picture comes out first and Arshi approves Puneesh's idea. Puneesh says that Shilpa has only three shoes in the house and he will destroy them all. But when he actually goes to do the task, he isn't able to gather the courage to do it. 
 
 All the contestants complain to Arshi about Shilpa and only Puneesh is on Shilpa's side. Vikas' picture comes out next and Shilpa tells Arshi that she will destroy 5 of Vikas's best clothes. Arshi approves her idea.
 
 Shilpa picks Vikas' best jackets and hoodies and intends to put them in the paint. Vikas begs her not to destroy a hoodie which is a gift from someone. Shilpa teases Vikas a lot and finally gives up the task. 
 
 At night, Arshi cuddles Akash and he tries to convince her not to let anyone destroy his jackets, shoes and his jewelry in the task as he has earned it all. They also talk about how bad Shilpa is behaving in the show. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
