MADURAI: The death toll into the   attack case in Thirupachethi village in Sivaganga district, rose to three after V Chandrasekaran, 34, who was injured in the incident, died at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). A Shanmuganathan, 31, and K Arumugam, 65, died on the same day of the incident on Monday.

 
 Meanwhile, sub-inspectors of police Selvam and Janakiraman attached to the Palaiyanur police station have been placed under suspension by the Sivaganga superintendent of police, T  . The action was initiated as they did not take prompt action on the complaints against the non-dalit members, lodged by the dalits in previous instances. 
 
 Five more injured in the attack are undergoing treatment at GRH. Relatives and family members continued their protest for the third day at the Anna Bus Stand, refusing to receive the bodies. They demanded the compensation to be enhanced to Rs 20 lakh (the state government had announced Rs 10 lakh for each victim’s family). They also sought a CB-CID inquiry in the incident and arrest of all the suspects and their detention under the Goondas Act. Vice-chairman of the National Commissioner for Scheduled Caste L Murugan visited the injured and family members of the victims at the hospital. The commission also visited   village. Murugan insisted that action should be taken against the suspended policemen under SC/ST act if they are found guilty, after a thorough investigation.
 
 Talking to reporters in Madurai, Murugan said that adequate police protection has been provided to prevent any untoward incident in Kachanatham and nearby villages. He said that he has urged the district administration to detain the accused under the Goondas Act.
 
 While the families of victims have demand Thirupachethi block to be announced as atrocity-prone area, Murugan said that the district administration will take a positive call on it. “To ensure the security of the people, a police outpost has been created and measures are being taken to bring two villages including Kachanatham with Thirupachethi police station, apart from the existing Palaiyanur station. It would be ensured that all the benefits under the SC/ST Act reach the victims,” he said. Sivaganga collector   and SP Jayachandran accompanied the vice-chairman during the visit to the village and meeting the victims’ family members.   party leader K Krishnasamy, Tamizhaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam leader   and Tamil movie director Pa Ranjith also visited the victims and the family members. They also took part in the protest. 
 
 
