SURAT: Members of the   community met Vada Dastirji Khurshed  , member of   ( ), on Wednesday at city police commissioner’s office. 

 Dastoor, the high priest of Udwada Agiyari (fire temple), was in city to hear the issues of Parsi community in connection with the alleged encroachment of 9,000 sq m worth Rs 150 crore in Piplod area. It was used as a tower of silence in the past.
 
 Dastoor, who was supposed to arrive on Thursday came a day early to discuss the issues. The hearing was held in presence city police commissioner Satish Sharma.
 
 Parsi community members from the city are protesting the demolition of a tower of silence and a small room which is part of the cremation ground near Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) campus. The land of tower of silence was allegedly encroached by some developers and they razed the structures on it. After demolition of the structures, Jamshedji Dottiwala had lodged a complaint against the developers in Umra police station. 
 
 Based on Dottiwala’s complaint, police had arrested   (61) and Hiren Viradiya (41) on Tuesday and later released them on bail. Apart from the two arrested, police booked   and   after the complaint was lodged on January 31. The accused were booked under the Indian Penal Code sections 447 (criminal trespass), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 297 (trespassing on burial places), 427 (mischief causing damage) and others.
 
 “Police has not taken strict action so far in the case and we have made representation to Dastoorji to ensure strict action. The city’s Parsi community made the representation to the member of NCM,” said Yezdi Ichhaporia, a lawyer, who was part of the group that made the representation. In a memorandum submitted to the NCM, the community members have demanded that additional sections be added to the police complaint.
 
 “Police have registered an offence in the case and arrested two accused on Tuesday. Police are investigating the case but it is largely of civil nature. Police can order externment. Also, further strict actions like Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) can be taken,” said police commissioner Satish Sharma.
 
 
