CHANDIGARH:   technical education minister Charanjit Singh   sincerely believed that he was doing the right thing when, on Monday, he flipped a coin to appoint a mechanical engineering lecturer to a government polytechnic in  .

 Two people wanted the Patiala posting and, according to Channi, he was only being fair by removing subjective choice from of the equation and leaving the appointment to the randomness of chance. To ensure transparency, Channi delivered this ancient form of justice in the presence of some journalists, one of whom even had a television camera. On Tuesday, Channi’s transparency backfired on him as the video clip of his coin flip went viral on social media and many people wondered if merit should have been the driving force behind the appointment rather than chance.
 
 
 Speaking to TOI, Channi said, “Thirty-seven lecturers were selected by the  . Issuing posting orders is the discretion of the minister. Instead, I called all lecturers to my office and issued their orders according to their choice. Can there be a more transparent process?”
 
 Lecturers proposed tossing coin, claims min
 
 Channi added that it was for the first time in the history of the technical education department that stations to newly-selected lecturers were allotted as per their choice so that they give their best and not chase politicians for a transfer-.According to him, the candidates had themselves asked for the coin-flip.
 
 Daljeet Singh Cheema, state education minister under the previous SADBJP government in Punjab, said, “The job of a minister is to formulate a policy on postings and have it implemented. He should not indulge in such gimmicks.”
 
 Channi, however, insisted he had done nothing wrong. He said 35 lecturers were satisfied with their postings. “Of the two lecturers who wanted to be in Patiala, one had better academic qualifications and the other was more experienced,” the minister said.
 
 “I first asked both candidates to talk to each other and take a mutually acceptable decision. But when they failed to reach a consensus, they proposed to toss a coin.”
 
 The minister reiterated that any government employee or officer can be posted any part of the state without taking his or her consent but he opted for a more transparent process.
 
