GURUGRAM: Eminent chef   on Thursday received an honorary doctorate at   University as a recognition for his outstanding work in culinary art and philanthropy and his global reach as a chef.

 The 46-year-old chef’s clientèle includes leaders from around the world, like former US presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton. He has also cooked for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “My career has been inspired with the simple truth that food brings us all together. It overlooks differences and binds us regardless of who we are. If you embrace a profession as your breath, the training is pretty smooth. I was born for this and it helped me to always look ahead of everyone to train under any opportunity. It may be Mughal Sheraton, Agra; Oberoi’s Kathmandu, Searock Sheraton, Leela Kempenski. Street vendors to small kiosks. I try to learn as much as I can,” Khanna told TOI in an exclusive interview. 
 
 After graduating from Manipal Catering School in India, he went on to study at the Culinary Institute of America (CIA). Moving to the USA and starting from scratch was a major milestone, he says. 
 
 Born in 1971 in Amritsar, he had a club foot at birth (a condition in which the leg bones are not aligned at the joint). “I was born and raised in Amritsar, under the shadow of the Golden Temple. For me, food was at langars, which is the greatest gift to mankind. I overcame all shortcomings to be where I am today. One thing that I have learnt in my journey over the years comes from Dalai Lama. It was him who helped me understand the power of patience, peace and integrity.”
 
 His main ingredient to work with is cardamom for flavour and saffron for taste. “My favourite ingredient is always flour, any type. I think making bread is one of the most sacred part of any civilisation, nothing gives us more peace that a warm piece of bread which is made from simple, humble flour,” said Khanna.
 
 Chef Khanna has also been greatly inspired by Mother Teresa and the work she did in Kolkata. “I wanted to eat from the same kitchen that served, healed and fed millions. I’m unfortunate to not have cooked for Mother Teresa.” 
 
 Besides cooking, the   likes to take time out to make documentaries. “I love to create documentaries, write and read non-stop when I’m not in the kitchen. I think that literature lives longer than anything else. And there are so many stories to be told through food. The biggest limitation in our lives is our mind. No one can limit us except for our own minds. How can the sky can be the limit when there are footprints on the moon?” he added. 
 
 On receiving the doctorate, he said, “I’m honoured and delighted to get this recognition and love from GD Goenka University, Haryana, and tread in the world of academia with illustrious thinkers, leaders and personalities.”
 
 
