Kolkata: The Special Task Force of Kolkata police has raided the residences of two more junior-level officials posted with Rifle Factory, Ishapore (RFI). Sources said that at least five others are under scanner — one of the suspects is an employee whose primary responsibility was to ensure that scrap loaded on to trucks was equivalent to the amount that had been rejected at the works. The other person — whose residence was searched — is connected with internal security at RFI.

 Lalbazar sources said raids will continue at other places — both in Bengal and outside the state — as it continues to work on leads received from the six accused arrested earlier.
 
 Sources said the probe so far has found gaping holes in how scrap was being handled at RFI. “We had earlier highlighted how there was no audit of scrapped items at the factory. Our probe has now established that the security checks at the gates did not even meet basic security parameters. The entire focus was on outsiders. Insiders were not checked on a regular basis. Even after we arrested two persons at RFI last September, security personnel stationed at the gates did not include compulsory body-checks at the gates,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Police sources said the awarding of contracts to remove scrap was also on the radar. “The same people kept getting the contracts for years. We have asked the RFI authorities to probe how the contracts got awarded across the board,” said a source. The rule, claimed sources, was to destroy the scrapped items into smaller ones before being loaded. But then accused like Dipak Sahu and Bhola always knew who would be on duty on particular days. They would manage to get the barrels out without being damaged,” he added.
 
 Elaborating on their modus operandi, an STF officer said the racket was probably active since 2008 and were supplying arms and ammunition to Maoists in Bihar. “They (the arrested) used to smuggle out parts of the arms scrapped by the rifle factory and these smugglers used to mend and sell them to Maoists in Bihar,” he said.
 
 
