Nagpur: Most Government Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCHs) in the state are finding it difficult to cope up with the medicine requirements. 

 The state government in a cabinet decision on last Tuesday had said that the GMCHs can buy medicines till January 31 as per the rate contract (RC). But unfortunately, government has not issued the GR in this regard so far preventing the colleges from buying the medicines. Hence the GMCH in city and the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and other GMCHs in Vidarbha are also affected.
 
 Most colleges are buying medicines under local purchase or through the PLA fund. The colleges are expected to pay the money to the medicine supplier within 90 days of the purchase as per the RC. But when TOI spoke to three major suppliers across the state they said that the bills costing over Rs50-60 crore have been pending with the directorate of medical education and research (DMER) for many last 4-6 months.
 
 “We are forced to stop supply of the drugs in such conditions. Yet we are trying our best to maintain the supply of essential drugs like life-saving ones and iron chelators etc which are essential for thalassaemia. We have met the DMER many times but the RC is not renewed yet. We have payments pending for Rs8-10 months,” said a supplier to GMCH. There are about 25 such suppliers including certain companies who directly sell to the colleges.
 
 Sources in GMCH said that from simple drugs like antacids like Ranatac to basic antibiotics required post surgeries like genatmycin, texine, higher antibiotics like meropan, piptaz and blood coagulants like Tranexa injections are not available. Sources say that the cost of drugs is about 3-5 times more if bought through local purchase and all drugs are not available.
 
 But the GMCH dean Dr N Niswade denied any short supply of the medicines and said that the college had bought all major drugs during the last winter legislative assembly session as it could have been required for the legislators. “We have enough stock of major medicines. May be a few patients may not have got medicines and are making the issue,” said the dean.
 
 The DMER director Dr Pravin Shingare told TOI that the GMCH dean had told him that there was no shortage of drugs. “But this is true that after the cabinet decision the government has not formalized the minutes of the meeting when the cabinet decision was taken. Only after the minutes of meeting (likely to be done in a day or two) are finalized that the GR will be issued for continuing the old rate contract for medicine purchase.
 
 Three suppliers TOI spoke to said that the state purchase procedure is faulty. It is very length and goes through various steps. Recently government has roped in Haffkines for medicine purchase but there too the process has not begun yet.
 
 
