COIMBATORE: French author   on Friday said there was a need to reinvent relationship with the nature to create better cities. “The people on this planet had a contract with mother nature. But we broke that contract several years ago and because of that we are facing a huge climate crisis. We need to find solutions to renew that contract and respect nature,” he said.

 Ducrozet was in the city to take part in Other City, an event organised by the Indian Design   in collaboration with   at the PSG Institute of Management.
 
 Talking about the need to create better cities without damaging the environment, the French author called for more civic participation in the entire process. “It’s the best solution available,” he said. 
 
 Pierre Guyot, French architect living in New Delhi for the past three years, said a strong political will was required if the cities were to be redesigned and made more liveable. “In Paris, the government is very clear about removing cars from its roads. They are coming up with a cycle corridor to increase its usage and force people give up their habit of using car. I just sold my car as I could not find a parking lot,” he said.
 
 Guyot said this was possible in India as well. “In New Delhi, when we converted a truck parking lot into an active urban space, people from all sections of the society joined us. We need to break the habit and force people to get out from their comfort zone for a permanent and long-term solution,” he said.
 
 Raphaël Gastebois, an architect and urban planner working with the Puducherry government on smart city plan, said several small-term temporary solutions should be adopted as they did not require any investment. “Big infrastructure projects require time and investment. While they are being worked out, smaller solutions should be implemented. In Puducherry, our main problem is to help residents come out with their cycles and remove tourist cars from roads. We need to maintain the culture, heritage and space of the union territory and also bring in solutions for its traffic problems,”   said.
 
 
