NAGPUR: After his breakthrough season where he helped   finish the season on a high, opening batsmen   is all set to play club cricket in England.

 
 Sanjay has signed a contract with   for the ‘B’ Division Birmingham & District Premier Cricket League. It is the designated league by the England Cricket Board.
 
 Sanjay is the second Vidarbha batsman after skipper Faiz Fazal to head west to prepare for the next season. The 22-year-old is honing his batting skills to meet the new challenges when Fordhouses Cricket Club begin their campaign on April 21.
 
 “Currently, we are focusing on fitness since the hectic domestic season has just got over. We have told him (Sanjay) to not to stress much and relax as he will be playing around 22 matches till September 15 in England,” Prashant Bambal, coach at Dr Ambedkar Cricket Sports Academy (DACSA), where Sanjay practices, told TOI.
 
 “Sanjay has set the target more than 1000 runs. Since the conditions will be seaming, we are also working on his leaving skills,” said Bambal, who will be using plastic ball to prepare his ward for challenging new conditions.
 
 Sanjay’s rise has solved the problem of opening since last year. Vidarbha had been searching for a partner for Faiz. The pair was one of the shining lights in 2016-17 season, where Vidarbha just missed the knock-out berth. The right-hander has formed a brilliant opening partnership with Faiz as they had four century and equal number of fifty stands in the 2017-18 season.
 
 Their opening stand was one of reasons of Vidarbha’s success this season where they also lifted Irani Trophy. He notched-up 775 runs to emerge as the third highest run-getter in the country. Sanjay also added a cherry on top to end the remarkable season with a half-century in Irani Trophy against Rest of India.
 
 Sanjay had a bumpy start to his career after making his First Class debut against Punjab in 2014. He was dropped after another failure against Haryana in Rohtak. Later, he went back to the basics and worked with Bambal to improve on each possible front.
 
 All the hard work that Sanjay put in at DACSA reaped reward when he started the season with an excellent 161-run knock in a winning cause in Ranji Trophy opener against Punjab. He never looked back till Vidarbha won their maiden Ranji Trophy title.
 
 Sanjay, who was once labelled as multi-day format batsmen, went on to play in the Vijay Hazare One Day Trophy after scoring at an average of 64.58 runs. Now, the opener has a new target at a new destination. Sanjay’s coach Bambal believes he has the ability to succeed in every condition. “I am quite sure of him scoring big in England which will help drastically in the next Indian season,” Bambal said.
 
