KOCHI: The special investigation team (SIT) probing the custodial death of S R   collected evidence from former   rural SP A V George. "Some clarifications were sought from the former SP in the past few days," said an officer with the SIT. 

 It has been learnt that the rural SP has told the SIT that he had deputed Aluva   K B Prabhullachandran to control the situation in Varapuzha. Even as the rural SP has claimed that information was sent openly using wireless, the SIT will verify his telephone records. 
 
 According to sources, the SIT had a week ago recorded the statement of the Aluva DSP as well. It is learnt that the DSP was sent to the spot soon after the alert on the violence at Varapuzha. "The DSP claims to have reached Varapuzha soon after the intimation. After arranging force to keep the situation under control, the DSP claims to have returned around 6.30pm on the day of Sreejith's arrest. Later in the night, Sreejith was arrested and assaulted," sources said. 
 
 Sources in the department, meanwhile, said that the investigation is in the right direction.
 
 "It is true that the rural SP sent additional force, including the special squad, to Varapuzha as tension prevailed in the area. However, there has been no direct communication about nabbing Sreejith. Since he was not even present on the spot, it is highly unlikely that he would be booked for the crime," said a senior officer. 
 
 Sources said that the SIT has recovered a copy of the statement of Vineesh, son of Vasudevan, the original complainant on his house getting attacked, having the date marked as April 7. As per this statement, which surfaced after the death of Sreejith, he and his brother were named by Vineesh. However, this document was not present in the case files. 
 
 After Vineesh denied naming Sreejith as accused, the latter's family released a document dated April 6, the day on which Sreejith was arrested. As per this document, Vineesh had only mentioned the names of Vipin, Vinchu, Thulasidas, Vinu, Ajith and Sarath and eight others who could be identified on sight. 
 
 It is suspected that the document which went missing was forged to tackle the mistaken identity crisis. The SIT is looking into this aspect now. However, it is learnt that the former rural SP has refused knowledge of the origin of this document and claimed that the North Paravur circle inspector was responsible for the paperwork on the day.
 
 Meanwhile, Varapuzha police registered an FIR after a complaint by Sajith, brother of Sreejith, about receiving another letter of threat. 
 
 The family on Thursday received the letter, which threatens Sajith too would have the same fate as that of Sreejith if they proceed with the complaint against the   officers accused in the custodial death. 
 
 This is the second such letter received by the family. The latest letter shows the 'from' address as 'Kerala police, Rural Shadow Squad, Thiruvananthapuram'. It also bears the postal seal of Thiruvananthapuram on it.
 
 The letter once again specifically mentions the names of some officers and asks the family to inquire about them in Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 "You should remember that though the tiger squad has been dismantled, there are special squads in other districts," the letter stated. 
 
