JAIPUR: The war between city mayor   and smart city CEO   seems to be never ending. The verbal spat and levelling of allegation continued in the smart city board meeting on Monday which was chaired by local self-government (LSG) principal secretary  . 

 Sources present in the meeting said, Lahoti alleged that   Limited (JSCL) is wasting money in hiring consultants. Moreover, there was no requirement of consultancy for projects such as Walled City's underground cabling, solar energy and facade development as tenders are been invited on engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) model. 
 
 Mayor didn't stop and further alleged that Rs 8 crore payment has been made to the consultants for these projects, while work of Rs 2 crore has been carried out on ground, till date.
 
 Sources said, "Lahoti also questioned about the appointment of engineers at JSCL office. Mayor said, 88 engineers are deployed at   (JMC) to carry out development work of Rs 100 crore. At smart city, expenditure made is much higher, but JSCL has appointed less than 10 engineers." 
 
 This is not for the first time that mayor has expressed dissatisfaction over the functioning of JSCL officials and raised a question mark on their planning.
 
 In October 2017, mayor had asked detailed work of projects initiated under smart city projects after issuing a notesheet. "The mayor has sought details of JSCL undergoing projects. He also examined the tenders invited for various projects and detailed project report (DPR)."
 
 Sources said, the public representatives in the city had also expressed that majority of projects under smart city mission are information technology (IT) based and not proving useful information to common man. 
 
 Meanwhile, an official of JSCL informed the board that it has already initiated projects worth Rs 550 crore in Jaipur. To take smart city work forward, we have also completed the tendering process of new projects worth Rs 300 crore. In next three months, projects worth Rs 190 crore will be started. 
 
 
