CHENNAI: It will be very difficult to curtail encroachments and unauthorised constructions unless liability is fixed on government servants,the Madras high court has said. It has also directed officials who issue building completion certificates to furnish a copy of their Aadhar or other identity card details, so that they could not escape the clutches of law in case the certificates had been issued in violation of the sanctioned plan. 

 A division bench of   S   passed the order on a plea moved by   of Coimbatore to remove an illegal construction being put in TVS Road, RS Puram, Coimbatore.
 
 “It is disheartening to note that many buildings, including individual houses, apartments, and commercial complexes are constructed in violation of the sanctioned plan, without leaving proper setback and in several cases, knowing well that it is a public road and park, constructions are made. 
 
 The fact remains that only the owner of the building is at loss, when a building, which is not constructed in accordance with the plan, is ordered to be demolished, and the authorities, who issue completion certificate to such buildings, make hay while the sun shines. 
 
 It is in collusion with the officials, these buildings are raised and on complaint, this court directs them to be razed. This court is of the view that unless a liability is fixed on the government servants, it will be very difficult to curtail encroachments,” the bench said.
 
 To safeguard the interest of the public at large, the court also issued a series of directions to be followed by the authorities issuing completion certificates, including producing a copy of their identity proof. It made it clear that no interim order or final order should be passed by subordinate courts in any petition for effecting electricity supply, without ascertaining the fact from the local authority concerned.
 
 “It is further made clear that till rules and regulations are framed for inspection of site at every stage, the directions stipulated by this court have to be followed by the authorities. The conditions mentioned in this order will apply even to the on-going constructions,” the judges said.
 
 The court then directed the registrar (judicial) of the high court to place the order before Chief Justice   for marking a copy to all the subordinate courts in   and the Union Territory of Pondicherry.
 
 
